-- First Solar, NextEra Power-Purchase Deals to Get CPUC Approval
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-02-01T18:28:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/first-solar-nextera-power-purchase-deals-to-get-cpuc-approval.html
First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  and NextEra Energy
Inc. are expected to receive approval to sell solar and wind
power from two projects in the western U.S. to California
utilities.  The California Public Utilities Commission listed the two
contracts on its consent agenda of items that will be approved
at a meeting today, according to filings from the regulatory
body. Terms and project costs weren’t disclosed.  The agreements will help the utilities’ efforts to adhere
to a state guideline that they get a third of their energy from
renewable sources by 2020.  Edison International (EIX) ’s Southern California Edison Co. will
purchase for 20 years the output from First Solar’s 250-megawatt
Silver State South project in Nevada. It’s scheduled to begin
producing electricity in May 2017, according to a  filing .  Silver State South, acquired as part of First Solar’s $285
million purchase of the project developer NextLight Renewable
Power LLC in 2010, was originally planned to be as large as 400
megawatts. The site in  Clark County  can accommodate more solar
panels, though additional federal permits would be required,
 Alan Bernheimer , spokesman for the Tempe, Arizona-based solar
company, said by telephone.  First Solar, the world’s biggest maker of thin-film solar
panels, is developing the project adjacent to its 50-megawatt
Silver State North plant that is near completion and will sell
its output to NV Energy Inc., Bernheimer said.  PG&E Corp. (PCG) ’s Pacific Gas & Electric Co. will buy the output
from NextEra’s 163.2-megawatt North Sky wind farm in Tehachapi,
California, for 25 years.  The contract is with the Juno Beach, Florida-based
company’s NextEra Energy Resources LLC unit, the largest U.S.
generator of wind and solar power. North Sky is scheduled to
enter operation by Dec. 31, according to a  filing , and will  use 
General Electric Co. wind turbines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  