-- Forint Rises to Three-Month High on Manufacturing Improvement
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-02-01T16:12:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/forint-heads-for-three-month-high-on-manufacturing-improvement.html
The forint rose to the strongest
close in more than three months as Hungary’s purchasing manager
index improved and Chinese industry gauges rose, increasing the
prospect of a recovery in  emerging markets .  Hungary’s currency appreciated 1.5 percent to 290.4 per
euro, the strongest on a closing basis since Oct. 12. The
government’s benchmark 10-year bonds climbed for a second day,
cutting yields 17 basis points to 8.877 percent by 4:34 p.m. in
Budapest.  Hungary’s purchasing managers’ index rose to 49.8 points in
January, near the 50 level dividing expansion from contraction,
compared with 48.6 points in the previous month, the Hungarian
company MLBKT said in a report today.  China ’s manufacturing
indexes rose in January as the world’s second-biggest economy
withstood weaker exports driven by Europe’s debt crisis and a
government-induced property slowdown.  “January’s manufacturing PMI data provide some evidence
that the slump in industry in emerging  Europe ’s most open
economies is bottoming out,”  William Jackson , a London-based
emerging-market analyst at  Capital Economics , wrote in a
research report.  The forint has rallied 9.9 percent for the best gains
worldwide since Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said on Jan. 5 he
was ready to discuss conditions needed to achieve a “quick”
deal with the  International Monetary Fund  and the European Union
on a bailout package.  ‘Concrete Decisions’  It remains uncertain whether Orban’s government will make
the concessions needed to strike a deal with the IMF, Guillaume Tresca, a Paris-based strategist at Credit Agricole CIB, wrote
in a research report today.  “Despite the recent improvement on the market front with
the forint outperforming its peers, no real major improvement
has been made,” Tresca said. “There is need for concrete
decisions and actions.”  Hungary will probably finalize this week its formal
response to European Union criticism of laws which obstructed
talks on a bailout package, Andras Giro-Szasz, the government’s
spokesman, said today in an interview with state-run M1
television.  While the Cabinet is ready to yield on several points
disputed by the EU, it disagrees with the claim that the
limiting of central bankers’ salaries and of the working age of
judges is discriminative, Giro-Szasz said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  