-- Fracking Boom Could Finally Cap Myth of Peak Oil: Peter Orszag
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2012-02-01T00:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/fracking-boom-could-finally-cap-myth-of-peak-oil-peter-orszag.html
The U.S. oil market could be on
the verge of its own fracking revolution, similar to what
the natural-gas market is already experiencing. As a
result, domestic production is now projected to rise
significantly over the coming decades, reducing the
relative share of imports in U.S. oil consumption.  Advances in horizontal drilling and hydrofracking, in
which highly pressurized liquids are injected into
underground rock, have been used increasingly over the past
few years to extract natural gas. The result has been a
substantial increase in recoverable reserves -- accompanied
by a lot of controversy over fracking’s environmental
effects -- and an associated decline in the cost of natural
gas.  In late 2007,  wellhead prices  for natural gas were
hovering in the range of $6 to $7 per thousand cubic feet;
by late 2011, they had declined to $3 to $4, and they have
fallen further since. John Deutch, a former director of the
Central Intelligence Agency, has  written  that, given the
impact on energy markets and therefore geopolitical
dynamics, “it is perhaps a permissible exaggeration to
claim a natural-gas revolution.”  The same controversial technologies used to recover
natural gas from deep-rock formations are now increasingly
being used to extract oil. Oil is already being produced
from shale at several locations throughout the U.S., most
notably the Bakken shale in  North Dakota .  As  Jim Mulva , the chief executive officer of
ConocoPhillips, recently  said , “The revolution has spread
to domestic oil production. And it may track the path it
followed with natural gas. We just don’t know yet. But it
looks promising.”  Rising Domestic Oil  The federal Energy Information Administration
certainly thinks so. An early release of its annual energy
outlook projects a substantial increase in onshore
production of oil from shale formations -- what experts
call “tight oil.”  In 2010,  oil companies  produced 5.5 million barrels
per day of domestic crude. The Energy Information
Administration  estimates  that figure will rise to 6.7
million barrels per day by 2020, mostly because of
“continued development of tight oil, in combination with
the ongoing development of offshore resources in the  Gulf
of Mexico .” The U.S. has not produced as much as 6.7
million barrels per day since 1994.  The mirror image of this projected increase in U.S.
production of oil and natural gas is a decline in reliance
on imports. In 2005 and 2006, about 60 percent of the
liquid fuel used in the U.S. was imported. By 2010, that
share fell to 50 percent, and it continues to decline. The
Energy Information Agency expects it to drop to 37 percent
by 2035.  Other analysts believe that even this projection is
too conservative because tight-oil production could rise
faster than expected. Every time projections are revised,
the numbers seem to move higher.  So, will this push  oil prices  down overall, as shale
gas has done to natural-gas prices? For years, analysts
have worried that known oil reserves have peaked, so that
prices will keep rising. Tight oil could change that
dynamic. As the energy analyst Seth Kleinman, a colleague
of mine at Citigroup Inc., argues, the price effects of the
shift to tight oil “may be more immediate and subtle than
the supply-and-demand balances hint at.”  The year ahead, he says, “could really see the death
of the peak-oil hypothesis, something that has been
underpinning a lot of the structural bullishness on oil.”
(The terminology is thus borderline ironic, since tight oil
could make oil markets much less tight.)  Still, significant uncertainty surrounds the entire
fracking movement, for both natural gas and oil. The
environmental controversies -- especially regarding water
pollution -- are not yet as prominent for oil as for
natural gas, but that’s undoubtedly because tight-oil
production is only now ramping up. If it grows to be as
large as projected, there’s little doubt that environmental
concerns will become much more prominent, too.  Expect to hear a lot more about tight oil over the
next few years -- and not just from the Energy Information
Administration.  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of global banking at
Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of
Management and Budget in the Obama administration. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  