-- France Urged to Pursue Oil-Fracking Research to Reduce Imports
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-02-01T08:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/france-urged-to-pursue-oil-fracking-research-to-reduce-imports.html
France , which last year banned oil
and natural-gas extraction from shale rock, should keep
experimenting with the technology if it wants to curb reliance
on imports, the nation’s oil industry lobby said.  The country should use “all means” to cut purchases of
energy supplies from abroad, the Paris-based  Union Francaise des
Industries Petrolieres  said today in a statement. UFIP also
urged France to revise its mining code so that the public and
local government are more “closely associated” with projects.  Total SA (FP) , based in Paris, and international peers have been
hurt by France’s ban on hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, which
the government says may harm the environment. The process, which
has made the U.S. the world’s largest gas producer, involves
pumping water and chemicals into rock to release hydrocarbons.  The ban, the first of the technology by any country, has
suspended shale exploration at permits around Paris and in
southern France.  Oil companies  including Total, the nation’s
largest, and Toreador Resources Corp. held licenses for shale
exploration.  The decision to outlaw fracking curtailed operations for
energy companies already contending with dwindling refining
margins. French oil-product demand fell 1.3 percent last year to
77.8 million metric tons, contributing to refiner losses of
about 800 million euros ($1.04 billion), UFIP said.  Plant Shutdowns  Lower profits from processing crude have forced refiners to
cut costs and shut plants across  Europe . In the past two years,
LyondellBasell Industries NV, Petroplus Holdings AG and Total
have decided to stop refining at sites in Berre, Petit-Couronne,
Reichstett and Dunkirk, leaving France with eight working
plants, compared with 24 in 1977.  Refining margins slumped to an average of 14 euros a ton in
2011 from 21 euros a year earlier, according to UFIP. French
refiners lost 1 billion euros in 2009 when margins averaged 15
euros, and “hundreds of millions of euros” more in 2010, the
group said previously, estimating that margins of about 25 euros
are needed for profitable operations.  The French oil companies also called today for “minimum
service” laws for ports to avoid strike disruptions. The
crippling of operations at crude-import hubs in 2010, combined
with strikes at refineries, led to shortages at the pumps.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  