-- Franklin Profit Declines 4.1% as Stock Market Losses Add to Redemptions
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2012-02-01T21:36:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/franklin-profit-drops-4-on-decline-in-global-stock-prices.html
Franklin Resources Inc. (BEN) , manager of
the Franklin and Templeton mutual funds, said fiscal first-
quarter profit fell 4.1 percent amid a slump in worldwide stocks
and withdrawals from the firm’s best-selling global bond fund.  Net income for the three months ended Dec. 31 declined to
$480.8 million, or $2.20 a share, from $501.2 million, or $2.23,
a year earlier, the  San Mateo , California-based company said
today in a statement. Earnings a year earlier were boosted by
$26.5 million in insurance recoveries, Matthew Walsh, a company
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  The $57 billion  Templeton Global Bond Fund (TPINX)  run by  Michael
Hasenstab  suffered redemptions in November and December after
three straight years of deposits as clients reacted to slumping
performance. The firm is known for international and fixed-
income funds such as Templeton Global Bond, which has beaten 98
percent of peers in the past five years even after trailing 90
percent in 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We knew the global fixed-income business was going to
suffer a bit because of the hiccup in performance,”  Michael Kim , an analyst with Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP in  New York ,
said in a telephone interview. “Looking ahead the flows should
improve.”  The company was expected to earn $2.09 a share, according
to the average estimate of 12 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.
Franklin gained 5.5 percent, the most since Nov. 30, to close at
$111.97 in New York trading. The firm’s shares have increased 17
percent this year.  ‘Not Immune’  Franklin had net redemptions of $15.6 billion in the
quarter, with $11.1 billion of that coming from one
institutional client, the company said in the statement. In the
two previous quarters, Franklin attracted $3.1 billion and $21.7
billion in net deposits.  Investors pulled money from the firm’s equity and fixed-
income funds, company data show. Long-term sales dropped with
the steepest decline coming from investors outside the U.S.,
Chief Executive Officer Gregory Johnson said in pre-recorded
remarks.  “We are not immune to global market volatility,” Johnson
said.  Franklin had $175 billion in global bond assets at the end
of 2011, almost four times the level at the end of 2008, company
reports show. Total assets were $670 billion as of Dec. 31.  Templeton Global Bond was a magnet for much of that growth.
The fund more than quintupled in size as assets grew by $46
billion in the past three years, according to Bloomberg data. A
 version  sold in Luxembourg quadrupled.  Year-End Withdrawals  The fund attracted a net $15 billion in the first 10 months
of 2011, the most of any U.S. mutual fund, according to data
from Chicago-based Morningstar Inc. In the last two months of
the year investors withdrew $1.8 billion.  Hasenstab’s bets on currencies failed to pay off last year.
The fund had 45 percent of its assets in Asia Pacific currencies
as of Aug. 31, including 15 percent in the South Korean won, 12
percent in the Australian dollar and 11 percent in the Malaysian
ringgit, according to a report filed in November with the U.S.
 Securities and Exchange Commission .  The decline in those currencies against the  U.S. dollar  was
the result of “temporary panic and contagion as opposed to
fundamental problems,” Hasenstab said in a September note
posted on Franklin’s website. In an October note, he repeated
his longstanding view that the most attractive investments are
bonds and currencies outside the U.S., the euro area and  Japan .  Improved Performance  The won, the Australian dollar and the ringgit have all
appreciated against the dollar this year and Templeton Global
Bond climbed 5.3 percent through yesterday, better than 98
percent of rivals, Bloomberg data show.  On the equity side, 72 percent of Franklin’s holdings are
in international stocks, company data show. The  MSCI World Index (MXWO) 
fell 7.6 percent in 2011.  About 11 percent of Franklin’s total assets are in U.S.
stocks, which has shielded the company from the impact of
investor flight from funds that invest in the country’s
equities. Investors pulled $135 billion from domestic stock
mutual funds in 2011, the fifth straight year of withdrawals,
according to data from the  Investment Company Institute , a
Washington-based trade group.  Johnson’s pay climbed 47 percent to $9.9 million in the
fiscal year ended Sept. 30, the company said last week in a
regulatory filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  