-- Freezing Siberian Winds Boost European Power Prices, Hit Crops
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-02-01T17:40:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/freezing-siberian-winds-boost-european-power-prices-disrupt-gas-supplies.html
Freezing weather across Europe sent
wheat and electricity prices higher and disrupted some transport
lines, with parts of the region preparing for their lowest
temperatures in more than 60 years.  The cold snap has claimed 43 lives in Ukraine, 26 in
Poland, 13 in Romania and five in  Bulgaria . Temperatures fell to
a 65-year low for the period in Bulgaria and the lowest in 60
years in some regions of Russia.  France  braced for temperatures
on Feb. 3 to drop as many as 11.3 degrees Celsius below average
for the time of year, while  Hungary , is preparing for daytime
temperatures as low as minus 15 this week.  “A wave of exceptional cold weather is on its way from
Siberia, which will be at its peak this weekend,”  Meteo.it , an
Italian weather service, said on its website.  While the cold snap has hit eastern Europe harder so far,
Siberian winds will also cover the western parts of the region
this week, weather services said. The cold weather is caused by
a high-pressure system across northern Russia that’s pushing
Siberian air as far south and west as  Morocco ,  MeteoFrance  said
on its website.  Electricity for tomorrow in  Germany ,  Europe ’s biggest
market, jumped to its highest since Nov. 23, climbing 14 percent
to 60.50 euros a megawatt-hour. Wheat climbed to the highest in
more than four months amid concern that frost in parts of the
Black Sea region may harm crops.  Colder Yet  Europe’s cold snap comes as the U.S. Northeast prepares for
more seasonal weather. In recent days, temperatures have reached
the high 50s across much of the region, including  New York . The
high in Central Park may be 59 degrees Fahrenheit (15 Celsius)
today, according to the  National Weather Service .  Temperatures will fall to as low as minus 25 degrees
Celsius (minus 13 Fahrenheit) this week in one of  Russia ’s main
wheat-growing regions of southern Rostov, the Federal
Hydrometeorological Center said on its website. Wheat for March
delivery rose as much as 1.4 percent to $6.75 a bushel on the
Chicago Board of Trade, the highest price for a most-active
contract since Sept. 21.  In Warsaw, temperatures were as low as minus 18 degrees
Celsius today, and are set to fall to minus 21 degrees tomorrow,
according to CustomWeather Inc. data on Bloomberg.  “An air flow from east of Poland and the Black Sea,
associated with a powerful high pressure system over the north-
west of Russia, is bringing colder and colder continental air,”
MeteoFrance said.  Frozen Black Sea  The Black Sea has frozen as far as 100 meters into the sea
and blizzards blocked roads and cut electricity to dozens of
towns in  Romania  since Jan. 26. In the Ukraine, which is
suffering the worst winter in six years, snow and wind disrupted
electricity supply to 13 towns and villages in three regions.  Luka Koper d.d. halted shipping traffic into and out of
Slovenia’s only port because of strong winds, Sebastjan Sik, the
company spokesman said in a phone interview today.  The arrival of cold winds in western Europe comes after a
mild start to winter. The average temperature in northern France
ranged from 5 to 10 degrees Celsius in January, three to four
degrees above normal. It will plunge to minus 10 this week.
Trucks were banned starting last night on some highways in
southern France because of icy roads.  Power prices for tomorrow in France, Europe’s second-
largest market, rose as much as 29 percent to 73 euros a
megawatt-hour, the highest since December 2010. French demand
may rise to a record 97,000 megawatts on Feb. 3, the electricity
network RTE said.  Disruptions  In  Italy , the cold weather came with heavy snowfall after
an unusually dry winter. The highway from Pisa inland to
Florence was closed earlier today because of the snow, and
trucks heavier than 7.5 tons have been banned in four central
regions,  Autostrade SpA (AUT)  said. Schools closed in Genoa and Pisa.  Last night’s Italian soccer championship match between
Parma and Juventus was canceled because of snow, and at least
two more matches scheduled for today have been scrapped.  In the  Czech Republic , train traffic was disrupted in
several areas as the frost damaged rails.  All flights out of Istanbul were canceled as airport
workers struggled to clear the runways and ramps. Some of the
city’s main roads were blocked. Heavy snowfall is expected
across much of  Turkey  today, weather authorities said.  The Swedish Meteorological and Hydrological Institute today
issued a warning for most of the eastern coastal region where
thin ice may form in the Baltic Sea after an unusually mild
December and January, it said on its website. February will
start with temperatures under normal, SMHI said.  Gas Supplies  Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA,  Poland ’s
dominant gas company, reduced supplies to three industrial
customers, while pipeline operator Gaz-System SA will ask the
government to release mandatory reserves of the fuel to
stabilize the system as cold boosted demand.  The cold snap boosted Poland’s daily gas consumption to
some 65 million cubic meters of gas per day, PGNiG said today.
That’s 41 percent higher than average consumption in December,
Polkowska said. Gaz-System expects the daily use of the fuel to
rise to 70 million cubic meters.  Romania was forced to boost its natural-gas imports in the
past week after consumption increased by 20 percent to a record
and is expected to rise further in February, according to Deputy
Economy Minister Claudiu Stafie.  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) , Russia’s natural-gas export monopoly, said
it’s raising supplies to Europe from underground storage and
pipelines.  Meeting Obligations  “The company has engaged all of its gas transportation
routes and significantly boosted supplies from its underground
storage facilities in Europe to meet export requests,” the
Moscow-based gas supplier said today in a statement.  Gazprom said it is meeting contractual obligations to
customers in Europe, which gets about 25 percent of its gas from
Russia.  The Hungarian government called on public utility companies
not to suspend services during the cold spell to people not
paying their bills. Electricite de France’s local unit, EDF
Demasz announced it won’t switch off electricity for non-paying
households through Feb. 12.  -- With assistance from Phoebe Sedgman in  Melbourne , Lars Paulsson and Elizabeth Konstantinova in  London , Alexander Webb
in  Frankfurt , Edith Balazs in Budapest, Marek Strzelecki in
Warsaw, Marco Bertacche and Dan Liefgreen in Milan, Ladka
Bauerova in  Prague , Sibel Akbay in Istanbul, Marina Sysoyeva in
Moscow, Irina Savu in Bucharest, Boris Cerni in Ljubljana, Kim McLaughlin in  Stockholm  and Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev.
Editors: Vidya Root, Balazs Penz  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  