-- U.K. Stocks Rise a Second Day as China’s Manufacturing Expands; BP Climbs
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-02-01T17:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/ftse-100-stocks-rise-a-second-day-as-china-manufacturing-grows-bp-climbs.html
U.K. stocks  rose by the most in a
month as manufacturing gauges climbed in  China  and the U.S.,
adding to optimism that growth in the world’s two largest
economies will boost earnings.  BP Plc (BP/)  rallied 2.6 percent after a judge ruled that
Europe’s second-biggest oil company doesn’t have to pay any
punitive damages awarded against Halliburton Co. from the 2010
Gulf of Mexico oil spill.  Johnson Matthey Plc (JMAT)  surged to the
highest since at least 1989 as the producer of a third of all
autocatalysts reported increased profit.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index  added 109.11, or 1.9 percent,
to 5,790.75 at the close in London. The gauge rose 2 percent in
January for its second consecutive month of gains. The advance
extended its rally from last year’s lowest level to  15 percent 
as the  European Central Bank  boosted lending to banks and U.S.
economic reports exceeded estimates. The FTSE All-Share Index
and Ireland’s ISEQ each climbed 2 percent today.  “The bulls were back in force today as strong
manufacturing data worldwide indicated that not only might a
double dip recession in the U.K. be averted, but a global
recession as well,” said  Angus Campbell , the head of sales at
Capital Spreads in London. “With strong economic data
indicating the recovery can be sustained now is proving a good
time to buy stocks.”  China’s Manufacturing Expands  In China, the  official purchasing managers’ index  increased
to 50.5 in January from 50.3 in December, exceeding  the median
estimate  in a Bloomberg News survey for a reading below the 50
level that divides expansion from contraction. The data may have
been distorted by a weeklong holiday.  A separate gauge  from  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Markit Economics rose to 48.8. India’s
manufacturing grew at the fastest pace in eight months.  In the U.S., the Institute for Supply Management’s U.S.
manufacturing index rose to 54.1 in January from 53.1 in
December, the Tempe, Arizona-based group’s data showed today.
Fifty is the dividing line between growth and contraction, and
the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey called for an
increase to 54.5.  A U.K. manufacturing index also rose, jumping to an eight-
month high in January and unexpectedly returned to growth after
a quarter of contraction as production rebounded.  BP climbed 2.6 percent to 483 pence, making the biggest
contribution to the FTSE 100’s advance. U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in  New Orleans  also ruled yesterday that BP will not
have to cover any civil penalties against Halliburton under the
 Clean Water Act . The blowout of the Macondo well in the Gulf of
Mexico led to the world’s largest accidental oil spill.  Johnson Matthey  Johnson Matthey climbed 5.3 percent to 2,159 pence after
saying  underlying profit before tax  in the three months through
December surged 34 percent from a year earlier to 104.3 million
pounds ($164 million). Sales, excluding precious metals, rose 22
percent. Johnson Matthey, which produced the world’s first
catalysts in 1974, has benefited from the increased use of the
pollution-cutting devices in Asia and the U.S.  ICAP Plc (IAP)  rallied 7.7 percent to 362 pence after the world’s
largest broker of transactions between banks said pretax profit
for the fiscal year ending March 31 will be at the “upper end”
of the current range of analyst estimates.  Bank shares were among the biggest gainers in western
European markets today.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  rallied 5.4 percent to
224.1 pence, extending its 21 percent surge in January. HSBC
gained 2.3 percent to 541.9 pence.  Schroders, LSE Climb  Schroders Plc (SDR) , the U.K.’s largest publicly traded money
manager by market value, surged 8.7 percent to 1,576 pence, the
biggest gain in three years.  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  rose 5.4 percent to 917
pence, the largest increase since June, as the European
Commission blocked Deutsche Boerse AG’s planned takeover of NYSE
Euronext. The merger would have led to a “near monopoly” in
the region’s exchange-traded derivatives, the commission said.  Ocado Group Plc (OCDO)  soared 13 percent to 98.15 pence, the
highest since October. The U.K.’s largest online grocer advanced
8.6 percent yesterday after predicting that sales growth will
approach 20 percent by the end of the year and reporting a
narrower annual loss.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  