-- LG Electronics Shares Rise After Mobile-Phone Business Returns to Profit
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-02-01T06:53:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/lg-electronics-2011-full-year-loss-narrows-on-television-smartphone-sales.html
LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , the world’s
third-largest maker of  mobile phones , posted the first profit at
its handset business in seven quarters, helping shares reverse
earlier losses in Seoul trading.  The mobile-phone business had an operating profit of 12
billion won ($10.7 million) in the quarter ended Dec. 31, the
Seoul-based company said in a statement today. That compared
with the 12.9 billion-won median loss in a Bloomberg News survey
of four analysts.  LG has introduced smartphones using Google Inc.’s Android
software and sporting what it says are sharper displays and
faster processors than the components in Apple Inc.’s iPhone.
Profit from selling TVs also exceeded estimates in the quarter,
helping narrow the company’s net loss from a year earlier.  “The handset business will continue improving,” Chun Sung Hoon, a Seoul-based analyst at Hana Daetoo Securities Co., said
by telephone. “With everyone using the same software platform,
the competition comes down to hardware competitiveness, which LG
is strong at.”  LG rose 1.9 percent to 84,300 won at the close of trading
in Seoul, after falling as much as 2.8 percent earlier in the
day. The benchmark Kospi index gained 0.2 percent.  Mobile Turnaround  South Korea ’s second-largest electronics company wants to
boost sales to 57.6 trillion won this year from 54.3 trillion
won last year. It plans to spend 1.6 trillion won in capital
expenditure and invest 2.6 trillion won in research and
development.  LG turned around its handset business even as sales fell
about 18 percent, helped by higher-priced models. The company’s
operating margin from selling mobile phones turned positive for
the first time since the first quarter in 2010.  LG said it sold 17.7 million mobile phones, including basic
types. It didn’t give a breakdown for smartphones.  Smartphone sales may have gained 47 percent to 5.7 million
units in the fourth quarter from a year earlier, according to an
estimate from Macquarie Group Ltd. That projection is lower than
the 54 percent growth in global shipments estimated by research
company  Strategy Analytics .  Samsung Electronics Co.’s smartphone sales during the
quarter more than tripled, and Apple more than doubled iPhone
shipments.  TV Profit  LG is counting on devices running on faster networks using
long-term evolution, or LTE, technology. The company sold more
than 1 million units of the Optimus LTE phone since it debuted
in October, LG said last month.  The home-entertainment division, which makes TVs, had an
operating profit of 149.7 billion won, rebounding from a 65.2
billion-won loss a year earlier. The median of four analyst
estimates in the Bloomberg News survey was for a profit of 136.5
billion won. Sales fell 5 percent to 6.3 trillion won.  Operating margins at the business recovered to 2.4 percent
from negative 1 percent a year earlier, helped by high-end
models, the company said.  LG is seeking to boost liquid-crystal-display TV sales by
about 20 percent to 30 million units this year with models
showing 3-D images.  The company wants to become the largest seller of 3-D TVs
this year by capturing about 25 percent of the market, with
about 80 percent of the new products in South Korea having 3-D
features, LG said last month.  OLED TVs  LG is using a 3-D technology called Film Patterned Retarder,
or FPR, an alternative to the shuttered-glasses approach used by
rivals including Samsung. LG says its polarized glasses are
lighter, more comfortable and cause less eye strain.  Demand for panels using FPR helped  LG Display Co. (034220)  report a
narrower-than-estimated fourth-quarter loss.  “LG’s rather audacious challenge to Samsung in the 3-D TV
market has been a success,” Daniel Kim, a Seoul-based analyst
at Macquarie Group Ltd., wrote in a Jan. 16 report.  LG also plans to start selling TVs using the organic light-
emitting diode, or OLED, technology in the second half of this
year. OLED produces sharper images than LCD.  The home-appliance division had an operating profit of 64.6
billion won, a 17 percent drop from a year earlier, on 2.99
trillion won in sales. That compares with the 62.9 billion won
median of the four analyst estimates.  Price cuts amid competition with Samsung, in addition to
higher raw material costs and weak demand, probably contributed
to the lower profit, said Park Seong Min, a Seoul-based analyst
at Kyobo Securities Co.  The air-conditioner business reported a 37.9 billion-won
loss, compared with a 9.7 billion-won profit a year earlier, LG
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in  Seoul  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  