-- Gamesa Rises Most in Two Weeks as Risk Assets Gain: Madrid Mover
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-02-01T16:59:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/gamesa-rises-most-in-two-weeks-as-risk-assets-gain-madrid-mover.html
Gamesa Corp. (GAM)  Tecnologica SA,  Europe ’s
second-biggest wind-turbine maker, rose the most in almost two
weeks as investors added bets on riskier assets, rewarding
volatile stocks.  Gamesa, based in Zamudio,  Spain , climbed 3.3 percent to
3.09 euros in Madrid, outstripping the Spanish benchmark
Ibex-35’s 2.2 percent gain.  Iberdrola SA (IBE) , the world’s biggest
renewable energy producer, rose 2.2 percent and Madrid-based
rival  Acciona SA (ANA)  rose 4.1 percent, the biggest increase in two
months.  European stocks and government bonds from peripheral euro-
region sovereigns advanced today as  Greece  offered concessions
to win a debt-swap deal with lenders. Gamesa’s average
 volatility  over the past 200 days was about 49 compared with 30
for the Ibex, meaning the stock tends to rise or fall more than
the benchmark, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The stock is heavily shorted,” said Gerard Reid, a
renewable energy analyst at Jefferies International Ltd. in
 Frankfurt . “If the market is going up, then there’s a bit of
short covering and that pushes the stock up even more than the
market.”  German bunds fell, with the yield on the 10-year debt
rising 6 basis points to 1.844 percent.  Fund’s Stake  Dimensional Fund Advisors LP, the Austin, Texas-based
investor with $213.7 billion under management, increased its
stake in Gamesa to 7.47 millions shares from 7.31 million shares
bringing its stake to 3.02 percent, according to a regulatory
filing dated Jan. 30.  Short interest in Gamesa reached 10 percent of its share
capital last month, the highest in more than two years, as
investors dumped riskier assets on concern European officials
were failing to box off the losses from the meltdown of Greece’s
public finances.  The extra yield investors demanded to hold 10-year Spanish
 government bonds  jumped 89 basis points in the first part of
last month to reach 380 points on Dec. 8 while Gamesa’s shorts
peaked on Dec. 12. The spread on Spanish government debt
narrowed to 300 basis points today while Gamesa shorts accounted
for 6.4 percent of its shares on Jan. 30, the most recent
figures available from Data Explorers on Bloomberg.  Short interest in Iberdrola was 1.6 percent of its
outstanding share capital on Jan. 30 while Acciona’s shorts were
4.6 percent, according to Data Explorers.  Neither Gamesa, Iberdrola nor Acciona will be affected by
Spain’s decision last week to stop granting subsidies for new
renewable power generators because they weren’t assuming any
additional plants still waiting for approval and the move
bolsters aid for their current assets, according to analysts’
notes from Citigroup Inc. and Banesto Bolsa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in  Madrid  at   bsills@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.ne . 