-- Georgia Gulf Rejects Westlake’s Increased Offer of $35 a Share
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-02-01T13:08:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/georgia-gulf-rejects-westlake-s-increased-offer-of-35-a-share.html
Georgia Gulf Corp. (GGC) ,  North America ’s
largest maker of vinyl construction products, rejected  Westlake
Chemical Corp. (WLK) ’s increased takeover offer of $35 a share.  Westlake raised its unsolicited bid 17 percent from $30
previously, the Houston-based company said today in a statement.
Atlanta-based Georgia Gulf rejected the bid, Westlake said.
Westlake also said it’s willing to pay for the bid using its
stock as well as cash, and that it won’t seek a proxy fight.  Westlake CEO Albert Chao, whose family owns about  69
percent  of the company, is seeking to integrate his resin and
pipe production with Georgia Gulf’s chemicals and vinyl lines.
The combination would be the second-largest North American maker
of polyvinyl chloride, or PVC, used in plastic pipe and siding.  Georgia Gulf narrowly averted bankruptcy after acquiring
building products maker Royal Group in 2006, at the start of the
worst housing slump since the Great Depression. Georgia Gulf is
now poised to post  record sales , according to analysts’
estimates, as  confidence  among U.S. homebuilders rises to a
four-year high.  The initial proposal from Westlake valued Georgia Gulf at
6.4 times its earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization in the last 12 months, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. That would have be less than at least 15 completed
takeovers of diversified chemicals producers valued at $1
billion or more in the past 15 years, the data show.  Georgia Gulf said Jan. 16 it adopted a stockholder rights
plan, also known as a poison pill, that allows existing
shareholders to buy stock at a discount once a suitor acquires
more than 10 percent of the outstanding shares.  In rejecting the offer on Jan. 16, Georgia Gulf said it was
willing to engage in discussions. Georgia Gulf is insisting that
talks be accompanied by a standstill agreement that would
“unreasonably restrain” the company’s investors’ ability to
consider the takeover bid, Westlake said Jan. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  