-- Gerdau Said to Seek Sale of 40% of Steelmaker’s Mine Unit for $2.5 Billion
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-02-01T21:14:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/gerdau-said-to-seek-sale-of-40-of-steelmaker-s-mine-unit-for-2-5-billion.html
Gerdau SA (GGBR4) ,  Latin America ’s largest
steelmaker, is seeking to sell 40 percent of its mining unit for
about $2.5 billion, a person familiar with the matter said.  Gerdau, based in  Porto Alegre ,  Brazil , hired Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. to handle the transaction, said the person, who asked
not to be identified because the matter is private.
International companies including Chinese and Japanese firms are
interested in buying the stake, according to the person.  Chief Executive Officer Andre Gerdau Johannpeter said Nov.
10 that the company was studying a plan to “monetize” its
iron-ore assets, and was considering whether to seek a partner,
sell shares of the mining business or develop deposits with its
own resources.  Gerdau’s iron-ore mining unit has a total reserve of 2.9
billion tons and the company plans to end this year with a
production of 7 million tons, or 100 percent of its needs,
according to  Pedro Galdi , an equity strategist at brokerage firm
SLW Corretora. The company now produces about 60 percent of its
own needs, he said.  “Prospects for iron-ore prices are great,” Galdi, who has
a “ buy ” rating for Gerdau’s shares, said in a telephone
interview.  A Gerdau press official said in an e-mailed statement that
the company couldn’t comment because it’s in a so-called quiet
period before earnings are released. A representative of Goldman
Sachs declined to comment.  Gerdau announced on Jan. 11 that it approved the repurchase
of as many as 2.69 million preferred shares from Jan. 12 to Jan.
20, according to a regulatory filing.  Gerdau  rose  4.5 percent today in  Sao Paulo  trading, the
most since Oct. 27, and has gained 20 percent this year. The
steelmaker’s shares lost 22 percent in 2010 and 36 percent in
2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  