-- Gingrich Vows to Continue Race as Early Florida Counting Points to Romney
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2012-02-01T00:40:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/gingrich-vows-to-continue-race-as-early-florida-counting-points-to-romney.html
Mitt Romney  prepared for victory in
the Republican presidential primary in  Florida (BEESFL)  today, as Newt Gingrich vowed to wage a prolonged fight for the nomination.  With 28 percent of precincts counted after polls closed in
the Eastern time zone of Florida, Romney held 49 percent of the
vote, Gingrich 30 percent, former Senator  Rick Santorum  of
Pennsylvania 13 percent and U.S. Representative Ron Paul of
Texas 7 percent. Polls in the western Panhandle were set to
close at 8 p.m. Eastern Standard Time.  “You can sense that it’s coming our way,” Romney, a
former governor of  Massachusetts , told reporters on his campaign
plane yesterday. “It’s getting better and better every day.”  With Romney surging in  Florida (NFSEFL) , Gingrich told reporters in
 Orlando  today he will continue campaigning until June or July,
“unless Romney drops out sooner.”  Gingrich has started to lay out a strategy for the seven
contests next month as aides pointed to national surveys showing
their candidate in the lead as proof that he could still win the
nomination.  “We are going to go all the way to the convention,”
Gingrich told a crowd of about 200 at the Renaissance Airport
Hotel in Orlando yesterday. “We are going to win in Tampa. And
we are going to be the nominee with your help.”  Gingrich’s campaign raised $5 million this month and $10
million in the last three months of 2011, spokesman R.C. Hammond
said in a posting on Twitter today. Gingrich, in a Jan. 28
interview with Bloomberg News, said he was down to about
$600,000 after winning  South Carolina (BEESSC) ’s Jan. 21 primary and was
spending money as fast as he could collect it.  Making Excuses  At a rally in Dunedin,  Florida , yesterday, Romney ridiculed
Gingrich and said he was making excuses for what is likely to be
a poor showing tonight.  “He’s been flailing around trying to whack me for one
thing or another,” Romney, 64, told several hundred voters
gathered in the town square. “You just watch it and you shake
your head.”  Gingrich, 68, a former U.S. House speaker, arrived in
Florida a week ago with the momentum of a 12-percentage-point
upset win in South Carolina.  Since then, Romney and his allies have pounded Gingrich
with negative television ads and on the campaign trail. They
spent more than $12 million on ads in Florida, compared with
$1.8 million in advertising time bought by Gingrich and his
backers through Jan. 29, according to data collected by New
York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG, which tracks advertising.
Ninety-two percent of all TV ads aired in Florida over the last
week were negative, according to the company.  ‘Fight Back’  “If you’re attacked, I’m not going to sit back,” Romney
told reporters in Tampa today. “I’m going to fight back, fight
back hard.”  Romney also delivered two strong debate performances last
week, as Gingrich struggled in a forum that has previously
played to his strengths.  Now, polling shows Romney with a commanding lead in the
state. The  Quinnipiac University poll  released yesterday has
Romney leading Gingrich 43 percent to 29 percent. The Jan. 27-29
telephone poll of 539 likely Republican primary voters has a
margin of error of plus or minus 4.2 percentage points.  Republican officials in Florida predicted more than 1.5
million votes by the time polls close tonight, state Republican
Party spokesman Brian Hughes said.  More than 632,500 Florida Republicans have already cast
ballots through the mail or at early voting sites, more than the
final turnout in  Iowa (BEESIA) ,  New Hampshire  or  South Carolina  and what
the officials say is a record for their state’s primary.  1,114 Delegates  Still, the nomination won’t be won or lost in Florida
alone. The largest state to hold a primary so far, Florida
awards 50 convention delegates -- a fraction of the 1,114 needed
to secure the nomination. The Republican convention in Tampa
begins on Aug. 27.  “Regardless of the message the Romney campaign wants to
push and the media wants to deliver, this race is just getting
started,” Gingrich’s national political director, Martin Baker,
said in a memo to reporters yesterday outlining the candidate’s
plans.  Baker wrote that Gingrich will have an advantage because
most of the contests over the next two months will award
delegates on a proportional basis.  “The shortage of ‘winner-take-all’ contests ensures that
no single race will either clinch the nomination for a candidate
or knock a candidate out of the race,” he wrote.  Minnesota, Colorado  Gingrich’s campaign identified  Minnesota (NFSEMN)  and  Colorado (STTLCO)  on
Feb. 7 and  Arizona (BEESAZ)  on Feb. 28 as their best chances for
victories heading into Super Tuesday on March 6, when 10 states
have primary contests.  Republican voters in the two Western states have an
independent streak that aligns with Gingrich’s anti-
establishment message, said Hammond. The Gingrich campaign will
be funded in those states by a base of online donors who give
$250 or less, he said.  “We have that pipeline in place,” Hammond said. “It’s
all about TV at this point.”  Santorum, after a weekend break from campaigning to care
for his sick daughter, also said he is staying in the race,
though he has failed to gain traction in Florida polls.
Yesterday, he predicted a political revival for his campaign at
an event at a suburban St. Louis community college, becoming the
first candidate to campaign in  Missouri (BEESMO)  before its Feb. 7
contest.  Chairman Resigns  Today,  Iowa   Republican Party  Chairman Matt Strawn said he
will resign the position effective Feb. 10. The party held its
caucuses Jan. 3 and initially declared Romney the winner by
eight votes. On Jan. 19, the party said its final certified
totals showed Santorum 34 votes ahead of Romney and that
certified results would be unavailable for eight precincts.  Paul, who has invested little in Florida, has focused more
on gathering delegates from caucus states where it is cheaper to
campaign. He plans to spend today campaigning in  Colorado  and
 Nevada (BEESNV) .  After holding a party tonight in Tampa, Romney plans to
campaign in  Minnesota  tomorrow before arriving that evening in
 Nevada , where the campaign is already airing ads before the Feb.
4 caucuses.  “This could be a long process of going state to state
getting support in each state,” Romney told reporters today.
“I’m not going to judge when that process will be over. It will
be over when those delegates are collected.”  Tea Party  Eric Fehrnstrom , a senior Romney adviser, said the campaign
considers Paul strong in Nevada, which has an active fiscally
conservative  Tea Party  community, and Santorum to have an
advantage in Minnesota. where there is a strong community of
anti-abortion activists.  “It’s not a two-person contest between Mitt and  Newt
Gingrich ,” he said. “We know we have to fight for every
vote.”  The split between the two Republican front-runners
illustrates the divide within the party between many elected
officials who are backing Romney, and the Tea Party and social
conservatives who Gingrich is seeking to rally.  “This is a fight for the heart and soul of the Republican
Party,” said Bill McCollum, a former congressman from Orlando
and state attorney general who is chairman of Gingrich’s Florida
bid.  In Florida, Romney has showcased his support from some of
the biggest names in the Republican Party, highlighting a
friendly statement from 1996 presidential nominee  Bob Dole  and
campaigning alongside 2008 nominee Senator  John McCain  of
 Arizona .  Wall Street Bankers  Gingrich has cast his candidacy in populist terms, painting
Romney as the choice of Washington politicians and Wall Street
bankers who benefited from government bailouts.  “We can’t beat all the money power of Goldman Sachs, all
the Romney people; we can’t beat the Romney money ourselves,”
Gingrich told voters in  Pensacola , Florida. “We can’t beat the
dishonesty of his campaign by ourselves. We need witnesses who
are prepared to go out and prepared to stand for conservatism.”  Romney accused Gingrich of trying to justify what is likely
to be a poor showing in Florida, saying his promise of a
protracted campaign is a sign the former speaker’s chances are
fading.  “That’s usually an indication that you think you are going
to lose when you say you’re going to go on whatever happens,”
Romney said.  Continuing his effort to tie Gingrich to the housing
crisis, Romney attributed the decline in his support to
consulting services the former speaker provided to  Freddie Mac 
after leaving office. The government-backed home mortgage
company is unpopular in Florida, where 23 percent of all
mortgaged homes are delinquent or in foreclosure, the most in
the nation, according to Jacksonville, Florida-based Lender
Processing Services.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Tampa, Florida at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Michael C. Bender in Tampa, Florida at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  