-- Glaxo Settles 20,000 Lawsuits Over Avandia, Lawyer Says
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-02-01T23:01:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/glaxosmithkline-agrees-to-settle-20-000-more-avandia-cases-lawyer-says.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , which is paying
$3 billion to resolve government claims that it illegally
marketed drugs such as the Avandia diabetes medication, agreed
to settle more lawsuits over the pills, a lawyer said.  Glaxo, the U.K.’s biggest drugmaker, agreed last month to
resolve more than  20,000 cases  alleging Avandia causes heart
attacks, said  Paul Kiesel , a lawyer for former users. The
accord, reached in court-ordered mediation, included a case that
was set for trial in state court in Los Angeles, he said.  “We are pleased the mediation has successfully resulted in
the settlement of a significant number of the remaining cases,”
Kiesel, one of the lead lawyers for plaintiffs in the Avandia
litigation, said yesterday in a telephone interview.  The settlements are part of London-based Glaxo’s efforts to
resolve legal issues stretching back more than a decade.
Executives announced in November that the drugmaker will pay $3
billion to settle U.S. criminal and civil probes into whether
Glaxo illegally marketed Avandia and other medications.  The company already has agreed to pay at least $700 million
to settle more than 15,000 patients’ claims that Avandia caused
heart attacks and strokes, people familiar with the accords said
last year.  ‘Cash Resources’  The most-recent settlements of Avandia patients’ suits
“are covered by existing provisions and those payments will be
funded through existing cash resources,”  Bernadette King , a
U.S.-based Glaxo spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  More than 2,500 Avandia cases are consolidated before U.S.
District Judge Cynthia Rufe in Philadelphia, who appointed a
mediator in a bid to resolve the remaining claims over the drug.
Other cases are pending in state courts around the U.S.  Patrick A. Juneau , a Lafayette, Louisiana-based lawyer
named as the Avandia mediator, helped the company and
plaintiffs’ lawyers reach agreement on the accords for the more
than 20,000 cases, Kiesel said.  Bill Robbins , a New Mexico-based plaintiffs’ lawyer who
represented many of the former Avandia users who settled their
cases last month, didn’t return calls for comment on the
accords. They included claims that were filed in both state and
federal courts, Kiesel said.  Remaining Cases  Rufe had set a 75-day deadline to resolve 85 percent of the
remaining cases through the mediation program, according to
court filings. Kiesel said it’s unclear whether enough cases
have been settled to meet the deadline.  If there aren’t enough settlements to meet the judge’s
requirements, Rufe has said she will begin scheduling cases for
trial. So far, no Avandia cases have been considered by a jury,
Kiesel said.  Janet Johnson, a former Avandia user, was scheduled to
bring her case to trial in state court in  Los Angeles  Jan. 17.
Her claims were resolved as part of the latest round of
settlements, Glaxo’s King said in an e-mail.  The company said in 2010 it would stop promoting Avandia
worldwide after regulators said the treatment would be withdrawn
from the market in  Europe  and  sales  would be limited in the U.S.
because of studies linking the drug to increased risks of heart
attacks.  Falling Sales  Sales of Avandia fell 43 percent in the wake of the
restrictions, Glaxo said. Avandia was once the world’s best-
selling diabetes pill, generating $3 billion in annual sales.  The $3 billion settlement is designed to resolve a federal-
government probe of Glaxo’s marketing of drugs such as Avandia
and its Advair lung treatment.  Federal prosecutors began an investigation in  Colorado  in
2004, later taken over by the U.S. attorney in  Massachusetts ,
into whether Glaxo promoted drugs for unapproved uses and
attempted to silence critics of the drug. The probe focused on
nine of the company’s best-selling products from 1997 to 2004.  A University of North Carolina professor told lawmakers in
2007 that Glaxo officials pressured him to stop raising
questions about the safety of Avandia when it came on the market
in 1999.  The consolidated case is In re Avandia Marketing, Sales
Practices and Products Liability Litigation, 07-01871, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Pennsylvania  (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 