-- Global Strategists Are Abandoning Bearish Views
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-02-02T16:47:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/global-strategists-abandoning-bearish-views-after-missing-rally.html
Strategists at the biggest banks are
capitulating on their bearish forecasts after the best start to
a year for global  stocks  since 1994 and gains of more than 7
percent in emerging-market currencies.  Just two weeks after saying that investors should “remain
cautious,” Larry Hatheway, the chief economist at  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
raised his recommendations on global shares and high-yield bonds
in a Jan. 23 note to customers entitled, “Wrong, but not too
late.”  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , and  Benoit Anne , the
global head of emerging-markets strategy at  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA,
said their estimates for developing nations were proven wrong.  The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  climbed 5.7 percent in
January, surprising strategists at  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  who had forecast
first-half losses because of Europe’s debt crisis.  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , which predicted the rally in
stocks, say it will continue as the U.S. housing market rebounds
and China eases lending restrictions to bolster economic growth.  “In hindsight, everybody was so beared up at the end of
last year,” Mary Ann Bartels, the New York-based head of
technical and market analysis at Bank of America, who predicted
on Dec. 27 that the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  would probably
fall about 15 percent in the first half before recovering, said
in a Jan. 31 phone interview. “There was nowhere for the market
to go but up.”  ECB, Fed  Investor confidence improved after the  European Central
Bank  announced a three-year lending program for banks, the
 Federal Reserve  said it will keep benchmark  interest rates  low
through at least 2014 and reports showed a stronger U.S. labor
market and slower Chinese  inflation .  Last month’s advance in the  MSCI All-Country index , which
tracks equities in 45 developed and emerging countries, is the
best performance during any January since 1994, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The gauge, which sank 9.4 percent last year,
added 0.3 percent at 11:45 a.m. New York time today.  An index of global high-yield and emerging-market debt
compiled by Bank of America rose 3.1 percent last month, the
biggest January increase since 2009.  India’s rupee, Brazil’s real, the Mexican peso and the
Hungarian forint all strengthened more than 7 percent against
the dollar as investors added about $7.7 billion to emerging-
market equity funds during the past month, the biggest inflows
since the four weeks ended April 27, data compiled by Bloomberg
and Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research firm EPFR Global
show. All four currencies weakened at least 11 percent in 2011.  Emerging Markets  “Most people were positioned for fairly weak markets, a
continuation of last year,” Tim Ash, the global head of
 emerging markets  research and strategy at RBS, said by phone on
Jan. 30.  The London-based strategist had anticipated a “difficult”
start to the year, with emerging-market assets rallying closer
to the middle of 2012. Ash wrote in a Jan. 27 note that the
rally suggested the timing of his previous forecast was wrong
and he predicted emerging-market currencies will continue to
strengthen.  SocGen’s Anne wrote in a November research note that
emerging markets would face “severe weakness” before
rebounding after the first quarter. He said in a Jan. 26 report
that “we have been proven wrong so far” and the rally may
extend as economic data improves.  Goldman, Barclays  David Kostin , a New York-based strategist at Goldman Sachs,
and Barry Knapp, the head of U.S. equity strategy at Barclays in
New York, were among forecasters who predicted U.S. stocks would
begin the year with losses. Kostin raised his three-month
estimate for the  S&P 500  to 1,275 in a report to clients today,
up from a November prediction of 1,150.  Bearish projections for stocks may still prove prescient
should Europe’s debt crisis worsen and slow global economic
growth.  The S&P 500 fell for a fourth day on Jan. 31, the longest
slump since November, as Greece negotiated with European
officials over the terms of a second rescue package and a report
showed American consumer confidence trailed estimates. The  U.S.
economy  expanded 2.8 percent in the fourth quarter, Commerce
Department figures showed on Jan. 27, less than the 3 percent
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “We suspect stocks are due for a near-term correction,”
Gina Martin Adams, a New York-based strategist at  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC) , wrote in a Jan. 30 report. “Day-to-day economic releases
may move from market tailwind to market headwind.”  Martin Adams advised in a Jan. 4 interview on Bloomberg
Television to own “defensive” stocks and predicted a “rocky
climate” for investors to start the year.  Relative Value  The  S&P 500  may slip to between 1,200 and 1,250 in the next
two months, though the index is unlikely to drop to last year’s
low reached in October, Bank of America’s Bartels said in the
Jan. 31 interview. Equities will probably resume gains in the
second half, she said.  Valuations on stocks, high-yield corporate bonds and real-
estate investment trusts are “attractive” and these securities
will probably outperform government debt as emerging nations
loosen monetary policy and the ECB’s lending program lowers the
risk of a financial crisis in  Europe , according to UBS’s
Hatheway, who sets the firm’s asset-allocation recommendations.  China reduced the  amount  lenders are required to keep in
reserve for the first time since 2008 in December and central
bankers in Brazil, the Philippines, Thailand and Chile have all
cut benchmark interest rates this year. The MSCI All-Country
index trades for 13 times reported  profits , compared with an
average of 21 times during the past 15 years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Stars Aligned’  Hatheway lifted his rating on global equities to
“overweight” from “neutral” in the Jan. 23 research note.  Improving U.S. economic data and “the turning point in the
policy cycle in the emerging economies will both tend to
diminish some of the concerns people have had,” Hatheway said
in a Jan. 31 phone interview. “I still think the consensus is
quite cautious.”  Developing-nation assets will probably extend their gains
should figures due on Feb. 3 show U.S. payrolls and employment
in January exceeded economists’ estimates, SocGen’s Anne said in
a Jan. 30 phone interview from London. U.S. employers probably
added 145,000 jobs last month as the unemployment rate held at
8.5 percent, according to the median estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Too Bearish  “I got stuck with my defensive views for too long,” Anne
said. “If we do get confirmation that the payroll number is a
decent number, no shocking surprise to the downside, then
presumably all stars will be aligned for another leg of the
rally.”  Any declines in emerging-market equities are a buying
opportunity, Geoffrey Dennis, the global emerging-market equity
strategist at Citigroup, said in a phone interview on Jan. 30.
The New York-based strategist, who wrote in a December report
that stocks would probably gain at the start of the year,
predicts that the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  will climb to
1,225 this year, about 20 percent above its current level.  “We do think Europe will survive this year, the global
economy is doing fine and the next obvious piece of good news
may be when China cuts banks’ reserve requirements again, which
may happen any day,” Dennis said on Jan. 30.  The S&P 500 will probably climb to 1,430 by the end of this
year from 1,312.41 on Jan. 31, according to  Thomas Lee , the
chief U.S. equity strategist at JPMorgan in New York.  His estimate is 6 percent higher than the average forecast
of 12 strategists compiled by Bloomberg on Jan. 30. While the
rally may face a short-term “pause,” it will resume this year
as investors purchase shares of companies most tied to economic
growth, Lee wrote in a Jan. 26 report.  “Investors had gotten just too bearishly positioned,” he
said in a phone interview on Jan. 30. “Investors need to go
from defensive to cyclical exposure. That’s going to be
something that takes time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  