-- Stocks Best Start Since ’94 Tops Commodities on U.S. Rebound
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-02-01T21:15:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/global-stocks-best-start-since-94-tops-commodities-bonds-on-u-s-rebound.html
Equities around the world are off to
the best start in 18 years, topping gains in  commodities  and
handing investors January’s best returns, as U.S. economic
growth shows signs of accelerating and European leaders move
closer to a solution on the region’s debt crisis.  The MSCI All-Country World Index rose 5.8 percent including
dividends as banks and mining companies rallied 9.3 percent or
more, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Total Return Index of metals, fuels and agricultural
products added 2.2 percent, the most since October. Global bonds
climbed 0.6 percent and the  U.S. dollar  fell 1.1 percent.  Almost $3 trillion has been added to stock values and
European shares ended a five-month  bear market  as economists
lifted forecasts for U.S. gross domestic product. Reports
showing American unemployment and Chinese inflation declined,
while German investor confidence jumped, pushed up equities as
the U.S. Federal Reserve pledged to keep  interest rates  near
zero percent through 2014.  “People expected things to be much worse,”  David Goerz ,
chief investment officer at Highmark Capital Management Inc.,
said in a telephone interview from San Francisco. His firm
oversees $17 billion. “The positive economic surprises changed
investors’ mindset about the probabilities of the U.S. tipping
into a recession. Furthermore, you saw earnings come in
generally better than expected.”  Best January  January’s  appreciation  in the MSCI All-Country gauge was
the most since it climbed 6.5 percent at the start of 1994. The
S&P 500 rose 4.4 percent for the best January since it rose 6.1
percent in 1997, according to data compiled by  Bloomberg. (SPX)  The
Stoxx Europe 600 Index added 4 percent after gains in insurers
and chemical producers pushed the benchmark gauge for European
equities up as much as 20 percent from its  September low . The
MSCI Asia-Pacific Index rallied 8 percent, advancing for a
second month.  Stocks advanced today, with the All-Country Index climbing
1.2 percent at 4:15 p.m.  New York  time, amid signs that global
manufacturing is strengthening.  Companies most-dependent on economic growth led the gains.
Gauges of commodity, financial and technology shares in the  S&P
500 (SPXL1)  rose more than 7.5 percent.  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S.
aluminum producer, and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the biggest software
maker, surged more than 13 percent.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  soared
28 percent. The  Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index (CYC)  jumped 11 percent,
the most since October.  Rising Earnings  The  Citigroup Economic Surprise Index (CESIUSD)  for the U.S., a gauge
of how much reports are exceeding or missing economists’
estimates in Bloomberg surveys, rose to a 10-month high on Jan.
6. The U.S economy is forecast to grow 2.3 percent in 2012,
according to the median projection in a survey of economists, up
from the estimate of 2.1 percent in December.  Earnings beat projections at 67 percent of the 198
companies in the S&P 500 that reported quarterly results since
Jan. 9, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Analysts
forecast profits in the  S&P 500  will reach a record $104.58 per
share this year after increasing almost 125 percent since the
end of 2009, the fastest expansion in a quarter century, the
data show.  Full-year earnings have  topped  estimates at 58 percent of
the Stoxx 600 companies that reported so far this year and 59
percent of MSCI All-Country World Index members.  S&P 500 High  The S&P 500 climbed to a six-month high of 1,326.05 on Jan.
25 after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , speaking at a news
conference after the statements, said that the option of further
large-scale bond purchases is still “on the table.”  European  stocks  had their best monthly start to a year
since 1998 as most countries in the region agreed to tighter
budget controls and Greece made progress on debt-restructuring
talks. European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  says his
strategy for battling  Europe ’s debt crisis is starting to work.
Asked if the ECB is open to cutting rates further, Draghi said
it depends on the inflation outlook. He indicated rates will
remain low for an extended period.  “Three things have been behind the recovery in risk
assets: progress on a fiscal compact in Europe, better-than-
expected economic data and more accommodative central-bank
policies,”  Mike Ryan , the New York-based chief investment
strategist at UBS Wealth Management Americas, said in a phone
interview. His firm oversees $715 billion. “While the first two
have eased concerns over a euro-zone crisis and global
recession, it is the last that will determine the duration and
magnitude of further moves.”  Orange Juice  The S&P  GSCI (SPGSCITR)  Total Return gauge of 24 commodities gained
2.2 percent in January, erasing last year’s 1.2 percent decline.
Orange juice futures soared 24 percent after the Food and Drug
Administration said it was delaying imports to conduct tests for
a banned fungicide. Silver gained 19 percent, the best start to
a year in almost three decades.  Commodities slid last year and money managers cut wagers on
rising prices on concern that Europe’s debt crisis and slower
Chinese growth will curb demand for raw materials.  “We’ve had a good start across the commodities universe,”
said Colin O’Shea, head of commodities in  London  at Hermes
Investment Management Ltd., which has about $2 billion in raw
materials. “We haven’t seen any evidence of a hard landing in
China.”  Open Interest Climbs  Commodity investments are likely to rebound in 2012 after
the smallest inflows since 2002 last year,  Barclays Capital  said
in a report Jan. 26. Assets under management for the industry
were $399 billion at the end of 2011, the bank estimates.  The  open interest  for 24 commodities climbed 8.3 percent in
January, the biggest increase since 2009, after falling the most
since 2008 last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Natural gas slumped 16 percent as warm winter weather in
the Northern Hemisphere in January curbed demand for heating and
supplies increased. Inventories totaled 3.098 trillion cubic
feet in the week ended Jan. 20, 21 percent above year-earlier
supplies, the Energy Department said.  “It’s been a lot more vicious to the downside than most
people thought,” James Dailey, who manages $215 million at TEAM
Financial Management LLC in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, said in a
telephone interview. “You’ve had this combination of supply
continuing to be pedal to the metal,” he said. “On the demand
side, because of partly a little bit of weakness in the economy
combined with the climate in the U.S. this winter so far, you
kind of had a perfect storm.”  ‘Core of the Rally’  The ECB’s unlimited three-year loans to banks spurred
investor optimism that the region’s debt crisis could be
contained. The central bank in December lent firms an
unprecedented 489 billion euros ($637 billion) as financial
institutions face $765 billion of maturing debt.  The loans were “certainly at the core of the rally and
people fed off the relief,” said Noel Hebert, a credit
strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA Inc. in New York.
“There was a little bit of performance chasing as the month
progressed. Everything is driven by sentiment and it starts to
feed on itself.”  The  Dollar Index (DXY)  tracking the U.S. currency against six
peers fell 1.1 percent as the dollar slumped against all 16
major counterparts in January.  Fixed-income securities worldwide returned 0.6 percent,
including reinvested interest, through Jan. 30, a second month
of gains, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  Treasuries Gain  Spanish  government bonds  gained 2.4 percent, Belgium’s
returned 2.5 percent and Ireland’s increased 6.9 percent, the
data show. Debt issued by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. returned 4.6
percent and that of Bank of America Corp. appreciated 7.9
percent.  Treasuries gained 0.3 percent as investors sought higher
yielding assets. The debt erased declines of as much as 0.8
percent. The yield on the five-year U.S. government note fell to
a record low of 0.698 percent as Bernanke said Jan. 25 that the
central bank is considering additional asset purchases to boost
economic growth.  “A lot of that has happened in just the last few days,”
Hebert said. “People were surprised by the extent of the bias
toward lower rates by the Fed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  