-- Goldman Sachs’s Chief Russia Trader Kizenko Quits to Build New York Sauna
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-02-01T19:14:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/goldman-s-chief-russia-trader-quits-to-build-new-jersey-banya.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s chief
equity trader in Moscow, Peter Kizenko, said he quit to return
to  New Jersey  and finish building a commercial Russian sauna.  Kizenko, who was born in New York, said he decided to
return after 18 years in Moscow because of the growth of
electronic trading and declining compensation in the industry.  “The fun element has been taken out of it,” the 45-year-
old said in a telephone interview today. “The golf course just
got harder, and Moscow is no longer like  Chicago  in the 1920s
where anything goes.  Russia  is becoming more refined.”  He’s leaving the industry at a time when regulators are
forcing banks to cut back their proprietary trading activities
and lenders themselves are cutting pay. Goldman Sachs, which set
a record for securities-firm pay in 2007, reduced compensation
for the third year in a row after earnings skidded and
protesters denounced Wall Street bonuses.  Kizenko joined Goldman Sachs in 2006 from UBS AG, where he
was the Swiss bank’s lead trader in Moscow. Kizenko, whose
parents emigrated from the former  Soviet Union , said he is
leaving the company today before returning to the U.S. and the
banya’s opening next month.  “I am no longer the oldest trader on the Russian market,”
Kizenko, said. “Now I can finish building up a Russian banya in
New Jersey.” He didn’t rule out a return to the financial
industry at a later date.  Banya Tradition  The banya tradition dates to the 11th century in Russia. A
wooden log shed is heated by an electric or wood-burning stove
to more than 80 degrees Celsius (176 degrees Fahrenheit). Copious
amounts of water are poured on the heat source to bring the
humidity to about the same level. A visit to a banya begins with
several rotations in and out of the steam room to allow the body
to warm up. Naked bathers typically beat one another with birch
or pine branches before plunging into cold water or rolling in
snow to cool down.  There are about five to seven banyas already in the  New
York , area according to Kizenko, who considered opening one in
 London  until he saw how expensive the rents are.  “There are a few in Brooklyn and  Manhattan , but the
aesthetics are not up to scratch,” Kizenko said by phone today.
“We are going for a mixture of the contemporary and the
classical of Sanduny in Moscow.” Kizenko had his banya, called
Bear and Birch, made in Russia and shipped to the U.S., he said.  Built in the 19th century for nobles, the  Sanduny baths 
near the Kremlin are Moscow’s fanciest. The poet Alexander Pushkin and the writer Leo Tolstoy are said to have bathed
there. More recent visitors include the actors  John Travolta ,
Dolph Lundgren and the billionaire  Roman Abramovich .  Goldman Sachs reduced its compensation and benefits expense
21 percent to $12.2 billion in 2011 as revenue slid 26 percent.
The expense for salary, bonuses and benefits, the company’s
biggest cost, was enough to provide $367,057 to each of its
33,300 employees, down from $430,700 for each of its 35,700
workers at the end of 2010.  Separately, the firm said today Paolo Zannoni, chairman of
Italian investment banking, will take over as chief of Russian
operations from co-heads Chris Barter and Jean Raby in the third
leadership change in as many years. Barter is leaving Goldman
after 19 years to start his own investment firm while Raby will
remain and work with  investment-banking  clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  