-- Goldman Sachs Lost Facebook IPO’s Lead Following ‘Strained’ Private Sale
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-02-02T05:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/goldman-sachs-lost-facebook-ipo-s-lead-following-strained-private-sale.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , whose
equity capital markets revenue dropped to No. 4 among U.S.
rivals in 2011, failed to win the lead role in Facebook Inc.’s
initial public offering after scuttling a private sale of the
 Internet company ’s stock to U.S. investors a year ago.  Facebook, the world’s largest social-networking service,
said yesterday that it hired  Morgan Stanley (MS)  as the $5 billion
IPO’s top underwriter, typically the most lucrative job for
banks in a stock offering. New York-based Goldman Sachs was
listed third in a regulatory filing that named the banks
involved.  The announcement marks a turnaround for Goldman Sachs’s
ties with Facebook. Last year, the bank said it halted a private
offering of Facebook stock to U.S. clients, citing concern that
media reports may breach federal laws limiting marketing for
private share sales.  “It would seem that the Goldman Sachs-Facebook
relationship was strained as a result of that deal,” said  Jack Ablin , who helps oversee $55 billion as chief investment officer
for Chicago-based Harris  Private Bank .  Facebook said in January 2011 it raised $1.5 billion from
Goldman Sachs and Digital Sky Technologies, valuing the company
at $50 billion. Goldman Sachs, affiliated funds and Digital Sky
invested $500 million, while non-U.S. investors in a Goldman
Sachs fund bought $1 billion of shares.  JPMorgan, BofA  Goldman Sachs fell in the ranking of equity underwriting
revenue last year, dropping more than most rivals. The company,
which ranked No. 1 among U.S. firms by revenue in that business
as recently as 2006, trailed  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in 2010 and
last year slid to No. 4 with $1.09 billion, less than  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and Morgan Stanley.  Goldman Sachs still was the top underwriter of equity and
equity-linked products by deal volume last year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The firm also was the No. 1 adviser
to technology companies on mergers and acquisitions.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for the firm, declined to
comment.  Getting picked for the IPO is a coup for New York-based
Morgan Stanley and Michael Grimes, its global co-head of
technology investment banking with Paul Chamberlain. The firm
won the biggest share of underwriting U.S. initial offers by
Internet companies last year, Bloomberg data show. Taking the
lead on Facebook may push the bank to first place in the U.S.
IPO league table for a third consecutive year.  Zynga, Groupon  Grimes, a banker with Morgan Stanley since 1995, may have
benefited from ties to Facebook Chief Operating Officer  Sheryl Sandberg , who was a senior executive at  Google Inc. (GOOG)  at the time
of its IPO. Morgan Stanley led that deal. In 2011, the firm also
led Internet offerings from  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , Groupon Inc. and
LinkedIn Corp.  Goldman Sachs, which placed fourth in U.S. Internet IPOs
last year behind Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank AG and Bank of
America, helped take Zynga and Groupon public, while losing out
on LinkedIn, Bloomberg data show.  Since Morgan Stanley is listed first among underwriters as
the so-called left lead in Facebook’s IPO, the bank probably
will receive the biggest fees and the prestige that comes with
arranging what could be the biggest technology or Internet IPO
on record if the size of the offering grows, according to
Bloomberg data. The $5 billion figure is a placeholder used to
calculate fees and may change, according to Facebook.  $10 Billion  The Internet company had been discussing raising as much as
$10 billion, a person with knowledge of the matter said late
last year. That would trump the combined U.S. and German debut
from  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX)  totaling about $5.85 billion in
2000, Bloomberg data show.  The average fee on the IPOs of Yandex NV, Zynga, Renren
Inc. and Groupon, Internet companies that each raised more than
$500 million in U.S. initial offerings last year, was 5.1
percent, Bloomberg data show. Bankers handling Facebook’s IPO
may collect fees as little as 1 percent to 1.5 percent, said two
people with knowledge of the matter.  Goldman Sachs’s gains on its investment in Facebook likely
will exceed additional fees it would have received from being
lead underwriter. The firm invested $375 million of its own
money in the Internet company as part of the fundraising
Facebook announced last year, according to an offering document
sent to clients. The firm said in the document that it may cut
that to $300 million by selling a portion of its stake.  That investment was made at a price that valued Facebook at
about $50 billion. The company is discussing a valuation of $75
billion to $100 billion in the IPO, two people familiar with the
matter said last week. At the top of that range, Goldman Sachs
could roughly double its money.  ‘Intense Media Attention’  Goldman Sachs halted last year’s offering for U.S.
investors after the deal drew “intense media attention,” it
said at the time. Some reports during the transaction focused on
documents that Goldman Sachs provided to potential investors,
demonstrating that the firm’s interests didn’t necessarily match
those of its clients.  A four-page description initially given to private wealth-
management clients showed that, while investors would be subject
to “significant restrictions” limiting their ability to sell
stakes, the firm’s own holding could be sold or hedged without
warning.  Goldman Sachs ultimately conducted an oversubscribed
offering to its non-U.S. clients in the fund that invested $1
billion.  The scuttled attempt to sell Facebook shares in the U.S.
later helped prompt lawmakers to examine whether rules were
prohibiting closely held companies from tapping capital. For
decades, regulators have limited the number of investors in such
companies, which sometimes don’t disclose figures such as
revenue, profit,  cash flow  and debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 