-- Goldman Sachs Unit Takes Stake in Robinson’s Altana Hedge Fund
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-02-01T19:16:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/goldman-sachs-unit-takes-stake-in-robinson-s-altana-hedge-fund.html
A  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  unit will
take a stake in Lee Robinson’s Altana Wealth Ltd. after holding
an earlier investment in his previous hedge fund.  Goldman’s Petershill fund has exercised its right to invest
in Monaco-based Altana, which Robinson started last year after
leaving Trafalgar Asset Managers, Altana said today in a
statement. Petershill was given the right to invest in any new
venture set up by Robinson, 42, when it bought a 20 percent
stake in Trafalgar in 2008.  Altana runs three  hedge funds , including the Altana
Sovereign Diversity fund, which tries to profit from movement of
wealth to  emerging markets  from the U.S. and  Europe . Trafalgar,
which Robinson founded with former Deutsche Bank AG executive
Theo Phanos, oversaw about $2.8 billion at its peak.  Robinson, who serves as Altana’s chief investment officer,
is personally managing a hedge fund at the firm that will invest
in distressed debt, according to the statement.  Goldman Sachs started the $1 billion Petershill fund in
2007 to make minority investments in about 15 hedge funds. Its
best investments include buying stakes in Winton Capital
Management, a London-based hedge fund that manages about $26
billion, and Capula Investment Management LLP, a London-based
fund that oversees $12.5 billion.  In April 2010, Petershill bought a stake in Level Global
Investors LP that became worthless after the $4 billion hedge
fund was shut down following a raid by the Federal Bureau of
Investigation over an insider-trading investigation. Jonathan Sorrell, who oversaw Petershill, stepped down in August to join
 Man Group Plc (EMG) , the world’s biggest publicly traded hedge fund,
as head of strategy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  