-- Goodwin Honor Loss a Watershed as U.K. Gets Tough on Banks
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a ,   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-02-01T13:18:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/goodwin-knighthood-loss-a-watershed-as-u-k-gets-tough-on-banks.html
The British government’s decision to
strip former  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  Chief Executive
Officer Fred Goodwin of his knighthood reflects a turning point
for bankers as politicians and voters step up criticism of pay
and performance.  Yesterday’s announcement came just two days after Goodwin’s
successor at the Edinburgh-based bank,  Stephen Hester , waived a
963,000-pound ($1.5 million) bonus after pressure from lawmakers
and the media. Goodwin was punished for leading the 285-year-old
lender into the world’s biggest bank bailout, while Hester was
slammed because RBS’s share price has slumped in the past year.
Voices from across the political spectrum said the behavior of
bankers has to change.  “This is a watershed 48 hours which dramatizes the urgent
need for financial services to re-earn legitimacy with the rest
of civil society,” said Will Hutton, a former director of the
Work Foundation research group and author of “The State We’re
In,” the 1995 book that advocated less reliance on finance.
“For three years, bankers have lived in a parallel universe,”
he said in a telephone interview.  Prime Minister David Cameron’s government and the
opposition  Labour Party  have found a common cause as they press
for more restraint from banks that had to be bailed out by the
taxpayer, sparking an economic downturn and a record budget
deficit. As public-sector jobs are cut, pay is frozen and the
economy teeters on the brink of a second recession, the finance
industry is facing a backlash.  ‘Huge Bonuses’  “The debate over the last few days has shown how unhappy
the public are, given the sacrifices they are having to make
because of the austerity program that was mostly the result of
what happened in financial services, particularly when senior
officials are paying themselves huge bonuses,” Andy Love, a
Labour member of the House of Commons Treasury Committee, said
in a telephone interview. “I hope both RBS and others respond
to that mood.”  Britain’s Honors Forfeiture Committee decided that Goodwin
should lose his knighthood, awarded in 2004 for “services to
banking,” in the light of the 2008 collapse of RBS, the Cabinet
Office said yesterday. He will no longer be entitled to use the
title “Sir” before his name.  “There is a lesson to be learned for financial services
generally,” Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s spokesman, Steve Field, told reporters in  London  today. “Clearly what happened
in the past mustn’t happen in the future.”  Soviet Spy  Previous examples of people stripped of their knighthoods
include Zimbabwean President  Robert Mugabe  and the art historian
Anthony Blunt, revealed in 1979 to have been a Soviet spy.  Michael Fallon, deputy chairman of Cameron’s Conservative
Party and a member of the Treasury Committee, said that scrutiny
may be extended to honors for senior figures involved in Lloyds
Banking Group Plc’s 2008 takeover of mortgage lender HBOS Plc,
which led to a taxpayer bailout of more than 20 billion pounds.  “There’s going to be a report from the Financial Services
Authority into the HBOS- Lloyds (LLOY)  disintegration, and who knows
what will follow from that,” Fallon said in an interview with
 BBC  Radio 4’s “Today” show. “If you hand somebody a
knighthood for services to banking, then you’ve got to make sure
he continues to be a worthy recipient of that honor.”  ‘That Bit Extra’  Labour will use a debate in Parliament on Feb. 7 to press
home its attack on the bonus culture within financial services.
The party’s business spokesman, Chuka Umunna, said last week the
idea that bonuses were routine needed to change.  Outside of financial services, he told the BBC on Jan. 27,
“you receive a bonus if you’ve done something out of the
ordinary, you’ve done something that bit extra.”  The U.K. government has injected 45.5 billion pounds into
RBS since 2008 and Goodwin, now 53, was the “dominant decision
maker” at the time of its collapse, the Cabinet Office said.  A Financial Services Authority report published Dec. 12
said that as early as 2003 its supervision team had identified
that Goodwin’s assertive and robust style might have created a
risk. It said there was “an important question” about the
quality of his judgment in the people he chose to run the
investment-banking arm of the company.  Hester waived his bonus late on Jan. 29 after Labour said
it would force a vote on the issue in the House of Commons. RBS
Chairman  Philip Hampton  also abandoned his 1.4 million-pound
award.  ‘Good of Scotland’  Goodwin was knighted in Queen Elizabeth II’s birthday
honors in June 2004 for “undertaking many projects to the
benefit of his bank and the good of  Scotland  as a whole,” Prime
Minister  Tony Blair ’s office said at the time.  An RBS spokeswoman declined to comment on yesterday’s
announcement, as did a spokesman for Goodwin.  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s  Robert Diamond , Britain’s top-paid bank CEO,
is the next executive likely to face scrutiny.  Diamond was awarded a 6.5 million-pound bonus for 2010 and
a further 2.25 million pounds depending on the lender’s
performance, London-based Barclays said in March.  Unlike RBS and Lloyds, where the U.K. taxpayer is also the
biggest shareholder, the government has no stakes in Barclays,
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  or  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , making it difficult
for the state to exert bonus restrictions. A spokesman for
Barclays declined to comment on bonus awards this week.  ‘Anti-Business Hysteria’  Simon Walker, the director general of the Institute of
Directors, a business lobby group, attacked the Forfeiture
Committee’s decision.  “I’m concerned about an anti-business hysteria,” Walker
told the BBC. He said it was “inappropriate” to take away
Goodwin’s knighthood “because you don’t approve of someone, you
think they have done things that are wrong but actually there is
no criminality.”  Some newspapers were also critical, with the  Independent 
saying that if Goodwin lost his knighthood for his role in the
financial crisis, then maybe the same sanction should be imposed
on  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  and former Lloyds
Chairman Victor Blank.  “ Fred Goodwin  is exceptional only in his totemic value to
a mob baying for vengeance,” the newspaper said in an
 editorial . “It sends out the profoundly off-putting signal that
Britain is anti-business and anti-wealth, a culture of harbored
grudges, public vindictiveness and mob rule.”  ‘Convenient Scapegoat’  The  Daily Telegraph  said the withdrawal of the knighthood
“sets a new benchmark, whereby anyone identified as a
convenient scapegoat for the country’s woes can be similarly
disparaged.”  Former Labour Chancellor of the Exchequer  Alistair Darling 
said the decision to strip Goodwin of the honor, after being
“summarily and quickly” judged, showed a government being
“blown along on the wind.” He warned the lack of a proper
process risked tarnishing the U.K.’s reputation around the
world. Would others implicated in the failure of RBS also be
stripped of honors, he asked.  “The government appears to be going after individuals
without establishing the principles on which people are going to
be judged,” Darling told the “Today” show. “We’re getting
into awful trouble here if we go after people on a whim and we
don’t have clear set of principles against which we can judge
people.”  RBS Expansion  Goodwin, born in Paisley, Scotland, and who once worked as
an accountant, became CEO in 2000 as RBS purchased National
Westminster Bank Plc for 24 billion pounds, the biggest takeover
in the financial-services industry at the time. The transaction
more than doubled the size of the company, making it the U.K.’s
biggest lender to companies as well as the second-largest
consumer bank.  As CEO, Goodwin continued to expand through takeovers,
buying Charter One Financial Corp. for $10.5 billion in 2004 and
a 5 percent stake in  Bank of China  the following year. In all,
he spent about $90 billion on acquisitions, and in the four
years before RBS’s collapse he tripled the bank’s balance sheet
to 2.4 trillion pounds, almost double the size of the British
economy.  In 2008, RBS led a group that acquired ABN Amro Holding NV
of the Netherlands for 72 billion euros ($94 billion) just
before the credit crisis.  Goodwin pushed ahead with the ABN deal, the biggest-ever
bank takeover, even though the due diligence gleaned from the
Dutch lender amounted to little more than two binders and a
compact disc, according to the FSA report.  The takeover, which RBS financed with debt rather than
equity, left the bank “excessively dependent” on short-term
funding, according to the FSA. That dependence brought RBS down
when markets seized up following the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. on Sept. 15, 2008.  The deal forced RBS to post the biggest loss in British
corporate history and seek the taxpayer rescue the same year.
Goodwin was replaced by Hester when the government took an 83
percent stake in the bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  