-- Facebook Cites Google+, Shift to Mobile Devices Among Its Potential Risks
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-02-02T22:03:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/google-media-coverage-among-potential-risks-cited-by-facebook-before-ipo.html
Facebook Inc. , the social network
that filed for an initial public offering yesterday, listed
rivalry with  Google (GOOG)  Inc., regulatory scrutiny, hacker attacks
and the shift to mobile technology among the risks it faces.  Facebook’s competition with Google, Twitter Inc. and other
social-networking providers could impede growth, the company
said in the risk-factors section of  its filing . Facebook also
said it would face competition in China if it manages to gain
access to that market, where it’s currently restricted.  “Certain competitors, including Google, could use strong
or dominant positions in one or more markets to gain competitive
advantage against us in areas where we operate,” Facebook said.
Their tactics may include “integrating competing social-
networking platforms or features into products they control,”
the company said.  Facebook, the world’s biggest social-networking service,
has attracted more rivals as its popularity among users and
advertisers soars. The company said it faces “significant
competition” in almost every aspect of its business.  The company also cited concerns about its mobile strategy.
Almost all of its revenue comes from ads delivered to computers,
not phones and tablets. Facebook’s mobile software currently
generates no “meaningful revenue,” the  Menlo Park , California-
based company said.  Apple, Android  Facebook further cautioned that key mobile devices, such as
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iOS products and gadgets running Google’s Android
software, may not feature Facebook in the future. If either of
these companies gives preference to another social network --
say, if Google promotes its own Google+ more aggressively --
Facebook’s growth could be jeopardized.  Bigger pitfalls could yet emerge, said  Kevin Landis , the
portfolio manager for the Firsthand Technology Value Fund, which
holds Facebook shares. Google, for instance, couldn’t have
foreseen the emergence of Facebook in 2004, when it went public.  “Let me put it this way: If you go back to Google’s S-1 in
their risk factors, there’s no mention of Facebook,” Landis
said. Facebook was founded in 2004.  Facebook also has considered entering  China , which would
bring its own challenges. The country has censorship laws that
have kept Facebook and other social-media companies, including
Twitter Inc. and Google’s YouTube, from operating there.  China Question  “We continue to evaluate entering China,” Facebook said.
“China is a large potential market for Facebook, but users are
generally restricted from accessing Facebook from China. We do
not know if we will be able to find an approach to managing
content and information that will be acceptable to us and to the
Chinese government.”  Another risk: Facebook relies on  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  for 12 percent
of its revenue, according to the filing. San Francisco-based
 Zynga (ZNGA)  is the  biggest developer  of  Facebook  games, including
“CityVille” and “Texas HoldEm.”  The revenue comes from Zynga’s sales of virtual goods and
from direct advertising purchased by Zynga. In addition, Zynga
produces a “significant number” of pages on which Facebook
displays ads. The dependence goes both ways. Zynga gets more
than 90 percent of its revenue from the social network.  “If we are unable to successfully maintain this
relationship, our financial results could be harmed,” Facebook
said of Zynga.  Zynga’s Bounce  The IPO filing helped make Zynga investors more bullish on
that stock.  Zynga shares  jumped 17 percent today to $12.39.  Facebook also said it faces pressure from governmental
bodies. It’s possible that a regulatory inquiry might lead to
changes to policies or practices, the company said.  “Violation of existing or future regulatory orders or
consent decrees could subject us to substantial monetary fines
and other penalties that could negatively affect our financial
condition and results of operations,” according to the filing.  Facebook agreed last year to settle complaints by the
Federal Trade Commission that it failed to protect users’
privacy or disclose how their data could be used. The proposed
20-year agreement would require Facebook to get clear consent
from users before sharing material posted under earlier, more
restrictive terms, and it would include independent reviews of
Facebook’s privacy practices.  Private Shares  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, meanwhile, is
probing transactions involving shares of closely held companies,
including Facebook. Secondary exchanges, such as  SecondMarket
Inc.  and SharesPost Inc., have been used to buy and sell
Facebook stock ahead of the IPO.  “We have received both formal and informal requests for
information from the staff of the SEC and we have been fully
cooperating with the staff,” the company said in the filing.  The company also could suffer if its users’ data is
compromised by attacks from outsiders.  “Any failure to maintain performance, reliability,
security, and availability of our products and technical
infrastructure to the satisfaction of our users may harm our
reputation and our ability to retain existing users and attract
new users,” Facebook said.  The media could hurt Facebook as well, by portraying its
privacy and product changes in a negative light. The company
received a “high degree of media coverage,” Facebook said.  The company has 845 million active users. That compares
with more than 90 million for Google+, which started last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 Bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  