-- Greek Asset Sales Stall Amid Debt Squabble, State Fund Property Chief Says
-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h   a n d   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 2012-02-01T09:36:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/greek-asset-sales-stall-amid-debt-squabble-state-fund-property-chief-says.html
Greece ’s effort to raise at least 50
billion euros ($66 billion) by selling or renting state assets
is stalling as investors await the outcome of talks over a debt
exchange plan, according to the executive responsible for
generating income from Greek real estate.  “Investors tell us they have two problems with Greece,”
said Andreas Taprantzis,  executive director  for real estate at
the Hellenic Republic Asset Development Fund. “First they’re
worried about Greece and if it’s bankrupt or will go back to the
drachma. Then they are worried about Europe itself.”  Greece and its creditors are negotiating the terms of an
accord to reduce the country’s borrowings three months after
private bondholders agreed to a 50 percent cut in the face value
of more than 200 billion euros of debt by voluntarily swapping
bonds for new securities. The aim of the so-called private
sector involvement, or PSI, is to help reduce Greece’s debt
burden to 120 percent of gross domestic product in 2020.  “Investors can deal with defaults and crisis, but they
can’t deal with uncertainty,” Taprantzis said. “In six months,
investors will know either way if there is a PSI agreement and
if we’re dead or alive.” Investors from Argentina and  Brazil 
have shown interest in Greek state assets, he said.  So far, Greece has only raised 1.8 billion euros from the
assets, according to a spokeswoman for the fund. The 50 billion-
euro target, set for 2017, may not be met until 2020, Taprantzis
said.  Greece struggled to raise money from its assets even before
the debt talks began. About 40 percent of government-owned
properties face ownership claims from third parties because
authorities failed to record them in an official land registry,
Taprantzis said.  Moving Deadlines  The country pledged to reduce its debt by raising taxes,
cutting spending and generating revenue from state assets after
receiving a 100 billion-euro bailout in 2010. The government
extended the deadline for raising the 50 billion euros to 2017
from 2015, in an effort to win a second bailout and avoid
default.  “We are working on the assumption that the PSI will work
as I don’t believe that  Europe  can handle a Greek default,” he
said. “Hopefully after that, the discussion about whether Greek
debt is viable will stop.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Smyth in  Madrid  at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tugwell in Athens 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net . 