-- Greenberg Amends Suit Seeking U.S. Compensation for AIG Takeover
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-02-01T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/greenberg-revises-lawsuit-seeking-25-billion-over-aig-government-bailout.html
Maurice “Hank” Greenberg, the
former  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  chief executive
officer, revised his lawsuit seeking $25 billion over the U.S.
takeover of the insurer, claiming a banker said the government
wanted to “steal” the business.  The amended complaint, filed yesterday in the U.S. Court of
Federal Claims in  Washington , quotes an unidentified banker
hired to represent the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  during
bailout discussions in 2008.  “These guys are going to try and steal the business,” the
banker said to an AIG representative, according to the
complaint.  Greenberg’s Starr International Co. sued the government
Nov. 21, calling the public assumption of 80 percent of stock in
the insurer in 2008 an unconstitutional “taking” of property
that requires $25 billion in compensation.  U.S. Claims Judge Thomas Wheeler yesterday ordered that AIG
be notified that it was added as a “nominal” defendant in the
case, meaning the company would be bound by any judgment.  Earlier Claims  The revised complaint buttressed earlier claims that the
U.S. taking of 562.9 million shares of AIG common stock was
illegal. Starr claims that while the U.S. got so-called fairness
opinions from banks on exchanging two groups of preferred stock,
it failed to get such an opinion in exchanging a block of
preferred stock for 562.9 million shares “for virtually
nothing.”  Starr, AIG’s largest shareholder at the time of the
bailout, claims that in the midst of the financial crisis in
September 2008, the U.S. took 80 percent of AIG’s equity while
violating the constitutional rights of shareholders to due
process and equal protection of the law.  Alison Preece, a spokeswoman for Starr’s lawyers at Boise,
Schiller & Flexner LLP, declined to comment on the amended
lawsuit.  Charles Miller , a Justice Department spokesman,
couldn’t immediately comment on the revised lawsuit.  The U.S. has until March 1 to file a motion to dismiss the
case.  The claims court handles cases against the federal
government for money, including claims that the U.S. took
private property for public use without just compensation in
violation of the Fifth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution.  Liquidity Crisis  Starr argues that AIG was caught in a liquidity crisis
hastened by the Fed’s denying the insurer access to lending
through its so-called discount window.  The central bank struck the AIG equity deal a day after the
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. bankruptcy on Sept. 15, 2008.
Starr claims the U.S. could have lent money without demanding
equity, as it did with foreign banks and other lenders.  On Nov. 21 Starr also sued the Federal Reserve Bank of  New
York , saying it breached its duty to AIG shareholders by loaning
$85 billion at 14.5 percent while offering better terms to banks
in a “backdoor bailout.” AIG almost collapsed after bets tied
to the housing market soured, and the bailout was revised at
least four times before reaching $182 billion.  The federal claims case is Starr International Co. v. U.S.,
1:11-cv-00779, U.S. Court of Federal Claims (Washington). The
Federal Reserve case is Starr International Co. v. Federal
Reserve Bank of New York, 1:11-cv-08422, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in  Newark ,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 