-- Gross Says Witnessing Death of Abundance, Birth of Austerity
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-02-01T13:09:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/gross-says-witnessing-death-of-abundance-birth-of-austerity.html
Bill Gross  said the zero-bound
interest rate policies embraced by central banks including the
 Federal Reserve  may end up killing as opposed to creating credit
and developed economies may suffer accordingly.  While recent actions by policy makers provide assurances
that short and intermediate U.S. bond yields may not change for
years, any potential for price appreciation is limited, Gross,
who runs the world’s biggest bond fund, wrote today in a monthly
investment outlook released on  Newport Beach , California-based
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s website.  “Monetary and fiscal excesses carry with them explicit
costs,” Gross wrote. “My intent really is to alert you, the
reader, to the significant costs that may be ahead for a global
economy and financial marketplace still functioning under the
assumption that cheap and abundant central bank credit is always
a positive dynamic.”  The Fed  purchased  $2.3 trillion of debt in two rounds of
quantitative easing known as QE1 and QE2 as part of its efforts
to support the world’s biggest economy. Policy makers last month
said they plan to keep their benchmark interest rate near zero
until at least the end of 2014. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said following the central bank’s Jan. 25 meeting that he’s
considering another program of debt purchases if it appears the
recovery isn’t progressing.  ‘Death of Abundance’  Zero-bound  interest rates  don’t always force investors to
take more risk by purchasing stocks or real estate, Gross said.
When investors are more concerned about the return of, rather
than returns on, their money, the liquidity being provided by
central bankers can instead be “trapped” in a mattress, bank
account or Treasury bills, he wrote.  “We are witnessing the death of abundance and the borning
of austerity, for what may be a long, long time,” Gross said.  Gross boosted the proportion of U.S. government and
Treasury debt in the $244 billion  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  to 30
percent of assets in December, the highest since November 2010,
according to a report placed on the company’s  website . His  fund 
has returned 6.57 percent in the past year, beating 53 percent
of its peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It gained
2.58 percent over the past month, beating 99 percent of peers.  Benchmark 10-year yields rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 1.82 percent at 7:58 a.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The rate slid to 1.79
percent yesterday, approaching the record low of 1.67 percent
set Sept. 23.  Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE ,
managed $1.35 trillion of assets as of September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  