-- GT Advanced Reports Growing Demand for Polysilicon Equipment
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2012-02-01T23:34:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/gt-advanced-reports-growing-demand-for-polysilicon-equipment.html
GT Advanced Technologies Inc. (GTAT) , a U.S.
maker of solar manufacturing equipment, reported 20 percent
growth in its backlog for polysilicon production systems, the
main raw material in solar cells, as sales fell 41 percent in
its 2012 fiscal third quarter.  GT Advanced’s polysilicon unit had $1.1 billion in
backlogged orders in the quarter ending Dec. 31, the company
said in a statement today. That was half of the Merrimack, New
Hampshire-based company’s total backlog and the only one of its
three segments to grow from the prior quarter.  The backlog for equipment used to make photovoltaic cells
and panels shrank 14 percent to $212.1 million as solar
companies curtailed production amid a global oversupply. The
gains in polysilicon orders show increased demand for the
material at the beginning of the solar supply chain, said Amir Rozwadowski, an analyst at Barclays Capital Inc. in  New York .  “Select polysilicon producers are focused on continued
capacity expansion, despite oversupply in the market, which
could bode well for equipment suppliers in the near term,”
Rozwadowski wrote in an e-mail today before the earnings report
was released.  The company reported $228.9 million in new orders for the
quarter, including $218.1 million for polysilicon gear.
Customers agreed to buy $900,000 in photovoltaic systems and $10
million in equipment to make industrial sapphires, which are
used in energy-efficient light-emitting diodes.  Net income fell 76 percent to $15.3 million, or 12 cents a
share, from the same quarter a year earlier. That beat the 8-
cent average estimate of 11 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.
Revenue fell 42 percent to $153 million.  “We saw continued success in our polysilicon business,”
Tom Gutierrez, GT Advanced’s president and chief executive
officer, said in the statement. “In PV, while we saw some
pockets of improvement, on balance we continue to believe a
broad-based turnaround is unlikely in the near to mid-term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  