-- Philips Electronics Leads Busiest Day in a Month for Corporate Debt Sales
-- B y   J o h n   P a r r y
-- 2012-03-05T20:21:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/ibm-p-g-lead-10-5-billion-in-bond-sales-as-yields-approach-record-lows.html
Companies are marketing at least
$18 billion of bonds in the U.S., heading for the busiest day in
a month, with investment-grade yields at record lows.  Royal Philips Electronics NV (PHIA) , the world’s largest maker of
patient-monitoring systems, plans to sell a two-part offering,
according to a person familiar with the transaction, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set. Bombardier
Inc., the maker of aircraft and rail equipment, is planning to
sell $500 million of 10-year notes, according to another person
with knowledge of that transaction. DirecTV, the biggest U.S.
satellite television service, may sell $4 billion of five-,
10- and 30-year debt.  Europe ’s fiscal crisis has stoked demand for the perceived
safety of dollar-denominated investments from fund managers
wagering that global banking system strains won’t curb U.S.
economic growth.  “Investors have proven willing to accept new deals across
the high-yield and investment-grade spectrums, and issuers are
happy to take advantage of that willingness,” wrote Guy LeBas,
chief fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia, in an e-mail message. He cited “the drumbeat of
lower and lower yields and greater and greater investor demand
for corporate bonds.”  The yield on Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Corporate
Master index fell on March 2 to 3.40 percent, the least in the
bank’s data going back to October 1986. Relative spreads above
Treasuries are at 200 basis points, the least since August.  Issuance is poised for the busiest day since Feb. 1, when
companies tapped the market for $18.5 billion, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Parry  in New York at 
 jparry5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  