-- ICAP Says Profit Will Meet Analysts’ Lowered Estimates on Risk Aversion
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-02-01T16:51:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/icap-says-earnings-will-meet-analysts-lowered-estimates-on-risk-aversion.html
ICAP Plc (IAP) , the world’s largest broker
of transactions between banks, said full-year profit will be in
a lower range than analysts estimated in November as the
sovereign debt crisis curbed investor risk appetite.  Pretax profit, ICAP’s preferred measure of performance, for
the fiscal year ending March 31 will be at the “upper end” of
the current range of analyst estimates of 336 million pounds
($528 million) to 358 million pounds, the London-based broker
said in a statement today. ICAP said in November it expected
full-year profit would be in analysts’ then range of 358 million
pounds to 390 million pounds.  “Like everyone else we saw a significant reduction in risk
appetite in November and December,” Chief Executive Officer
 Michael Spencer  said in the statement. “In January we saw
encouraging signs of activity starting to return, albeit
cautiously in some markets.”  ICAP said central bank and government efforts to stimulate
the markets, including the  European Central Bank ’s offer of
unlimited three-year loans to EU banks in December, had improved
liquidity conditions in the region. Since the start of this
year, the MSCI World Index has rebounded 5.1 percent.  ICAP closed up 7.7 percent at 362 pence in London trading,
for a market value of about 2.3 billion pounds. Before today,
the stock had fallen 37 percent in the past year.  Revenue from continuing operations fell 7 percent in the
fiscal third quarter from the year-earlier period, ICAP said.
Revenue in the nine months to Dec. 31 was down 2 percent on the
comparable period in 2011.  ICAP said the debt crisis has prompted it to cut staff in
units with declining profit and add employees in growth areas
such as commodities and financial futures. The broker said today
it has reduced costs by about 20 million pounds.  “There has been a recent pick-up in activity that we had
hoped for,” JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts Paul Measday and Rae Maile, who have a “neutral” rating on ICAP, wrote in a report
to clients today. Though “the cost-cutting suggests to us that
management expects that the market environment will remain
challenging for the time being.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  