-- Micex Extending January Gains to Aberdeen on Consumption: Russia Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f   a n d   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-02-01T03:09:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/micex-extending-gains-to-aberdeen-on-consumers-russia-overnight.html
Russian stocks may extend their best
start to a year since 2006 as steady  oil prices  buoy domestic
consumption and growth exceeds that in the global economy,
according to Aberdeen Asset Management Plc.  Moscow’s benchmark  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  gained 8 percent last month,
the biggest January advance since it surged 16 percent six years
ago, and was up 1.2 percent to 1,514.03 yesterday. The  Bloomberg
Russia-US 14 Index  of Russian companies traded in  New York  rose
0.3 percent to bring its jump last month to 14 percent, while
 futures  expiring in March on the nation’s  RTS index (RTSI$)  slipped 0.9
percent to 156,250 in U.S. trading yesterday.  “There’s a very compelling growth and consumption story in
 Russia  which is due to the country’s relatively positive
economic situation,” Osamu Yamagata, who helps manage $45
billion in emerging-market equities at Aberdeen in  London , said
by phone yesterday. “Assuming the price of oil is stable in
2012, we expect Russia to grow faster than the global economy
benefiting companies focused on the domestic consumer.”  Urals crude, Russia’s biggest export earner and one of the
biggest sources of government revenue along with natural gas
sales, jumped 15 percent last year, helping stoke growth in
 retail sales  to the most since 2008. Russia grew 4.2 percent
last year, according to Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin , more than
the International Monetary Fund’s 3.3 percent estimate for the
world economy in 2011.  OAO Mechel (MTL) , Russia’s largest coal producer for steelmakers,
surged 30 percent last month to become best performer on the
Bloomberg Russia-U.S. 14 index, as the company reported a rise
in coking-coal sales and investors sought out stock that lost 71
percent in 2011, the biggest decliner on the New York index.  Russia ETF Climbs  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, advanced for the sixth time in seven days
yesterday, adding 0.6 percent to $30.26 to extend its gain for
January to 14 percent, the most since October. The  RTS
Volatility Index (RTSVX) , which measures expected swings in the index
futures, rose for a second day, gaining 2.1 percent to 33.37
points.  Russian companies that can capitalize on the country’s
expanding middle class will benefit in 2012 as consumption
increasingly comprises a larger portion of the economy,
according to Yamagata. Aberdeen owns shares in  OAO Magnit (MGNT) ,
Russia’s biggest retailer by number of stores,  O’Key Group SA (OKEY) 
and  X5 Retail Group NV (FIVE) , Russia’s biggest food retailer by
revenue, he said.  Russian ‘Laggard’  The dollar-denominated  RTS Index (RTSI$)  in Moscow advanced 2
percent to 1,577.29 yesterday, adding 14 percent in January. The
30-stock, ruble-denominated Micex Index is the ninth best
performer among  emerging markets  this year, lagging behind the
12 percent jump in Turkey’s ISE National 100 Index and 11
percent advances for  India ’s  BSE Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  and  Brazil ’s
 Bovespa (IBOV)  Index.  United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer,
rose 0.7 percent to HK$5.94 in  Hong Kong  as of 11:06 a.m. local
time. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.1 percent today.  “Investors don’t yet have great conviction about Russian
equities either way,” Tom Furda, director of Russian equity
sales at Auerbach Grayson & Co.’s Moscow-based brokerage partner
UralSib Financial Corp., said by phone in New York yesterday.
“Russia has been a laggard compared to India and Brazil because
oil has been sluggish compared to other commodities this month,
and people were turned off by the parliamentary election
shenanigans.”  Putin is running for a third term as Russia’s president in
elections scheduled for March 4 after having to step down from
the post in 2008 because of  term limits . Protesters have taken
to the streets of Russian cities since the Dec. 4 parliamentary
poll, where Putin’s United Russia party won a reduced majority
amid allegations of vote rigging.  Underperforming Petrobras  American depositary receipts of  OAO Lukoil (LUKOY) , Russia’s
largest non-state oil producer, gained 0.3 percent yesterday to
$58.34, advancing 9.7 percent in January. New York-traded shares
of  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PBR) , Brazil’s state-controlled oil
company, rose 23 percent in January.  Crude for March delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  added 0.2 percent to $98.63 a barrel in electronic
trading. The contracts slipped 0.3 percent to settle at $98.48 a
barrel yesterday, down 0.4 percent last month. Copper jumped 10
percent, the biggest January advance since 2003.  OAO RusHydro (RSHYY) , the country’s largest hydro-power producer,
was the best performing U.S.-traded Russian stock yesterday,
after VEB, the state development bank, said it may acquire 10
percent of the company. VEB may spend 64 billion rubles ($2.1
billion) to buy treasury shares in RusHydro to help fund  capital
spending  at the power utility, Chief Executive Officer  Vladimir Dmitriev  said in an interview in Davos,  Switzerland .  CTC Slumps  The company’s ADRs rose 3.5 percent to $3.82 in New York,
and added 26 percent in January. UBS AG reiterated its “buy”
rating for RusHydro yesterday after the company reported that
net income for the first nine months of 2011 climbed to 30.6
billion rubles ($1 billion) from 25.6 billion rubles a year
earlier.  CTC Media Inc. (CTCM) , the U.S.-traded owner of Russia’s fourth-
largest television channel, fell in U.S. trading as its audience
share declined from a year ago in the past four weeks, according
to Moscow brokerage Renaissance Capital. The stock retreated 0.5
percent to $10.02, paring its 14 percent advance in January.  OAO Gazprom (OGZPY) , the world’s biggest natural gas exporter and
Russia’s largest company by market value, reports third-quarter
earnings in Moscow today. State-run  OAO Rosneft (ROSN) , the country’s
biggest oil producer, is scheduled to publish earnings for the
fourth quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net , or
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 Eobrien6@bloomberg.net  