-- Microsoft Ads Bid to Capitalize on Google Privacy Backlash
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-02-01T19:58:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/microsoft-ads-attempt-to-capitalize-on-google-privacy-backlash.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , aiming to take
advantage of a backlash against  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s policy changes, is
rolling out new ads that say its rival is risking users’ privacy
to squeeze more revenue out of them.  The three-day print campaign started today in the Wall
Street Journal, New York Times and  USA Today . A  blog posting 
with the title “Gone Google? Got Concerns? We Have
Alternatives,” written by Microsoft spokesman  Frank Shaw , was
posted on the company’s website.  Google tweaked its Internet search engine last month to
elevate results from friends and its Google+ social network,
irking some rivals, partners and users. Separately, Google
altered its privacy guidelines to create a uniform set of
policies for more than 60 products, unleashing a fresh wave of
criticism from regulators and consumer advocates concerned the
company isn’t protecting the user information it collects.  “Every data point Google collects and connects to you
increases how valuable you are to an advertiser,” Microsoft
says in the first ad of the new campaign.  The ad also tells readers that “if these changes rub you
the wrong way, please consider using our portfolio of award-
winning products and services.” The Redmond, Washington-based
company cited its Hotmail e-mail service, Bing search engine,
Office 365 for online word-processing and spreadsheets, and the
Internet Explorer browser.  Harder to Control?  “The changes Google announced make it harder, not easier,
for people to stay in control of their own information,” Shaw
wrote in his post. “We take a different approach.”  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , responded to
the remarks today in its  own blog posting .  “Fact: Our privacy controls have not changed. Period,”
the company said. “Our users can: edit and delete their search
history; edit and delete their YouTube viewing history; use many
of our services signed in or out; use Google Dashboard and our
Ads Preferences Manager to see what data we collect and manage
the way it is used; and take advantage of our data liberation
efforts if they want to remove information from our services.”  The company also said Microsoft’s assertion that the
privacy changes were designed to squeeze more ad revenue from
users is false.  “The vast majority of the product personalization Google
does is unrelated to ads -- it’s about making our services
better for users,” Google said.  Social Data  Google’s search changes were designed to include more data
from a user’s social circle in query results. That helps the
company promote Google+ and counter features from Microsoft’s
Bing search, which displays data from Facebook Inc. Facebook has
more than 800 million members, compared with 90 million for
Google+.  While Google remains dominant in Internet searches,
Microsoft has gained ground. In December, Bing had 15.1 percent
of U.S. Internet queries, up from 13.9 percent last March,
according to ComScore Inc.  Google said the privacy-policy changes were meant to make
the procedures simpler by having a consistent approach across
its services. Data-protection agencies in Ireland and  France 
have said they will assess the changes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at   dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  