-- IFS Sees Case for Short-Term Fiscal Stimulus for U.K. Growth
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-02-01T13:25:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/ifs-sees-case-for-short-term-fiscal-stimulus-for-u-k-growth.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  could safely implement a “significant” fiscal stimulus
to spur the British economy amid signs that borrowing will be
lower than estimated, the  Institute for Fiscal Studies  said.  “The case for a significant short-term fiscal stimulus to
boost the economy is stronger than it was a year ago,” the
London-based research group said in a  report  today. “There
seems little prospect that it would prompt an offsetting
monetary tightening in the present climate.”  The proposal is a challenge to Osborne’s austerity program,
which he says is necessary to keep  interest rates  low and
insulate the U.K. from the sovereign-debt crisis sweeping the
euro region. Risks to the economy and the government’s fiscal
targets “are very much on the downside,” leaving little scope
for a permanent loosening through tax cuts or higher spending,
the IFS said.  By 2017, Osborne will borrow 9 billion pounds ($14.2
billion) less than government forecasts suggest, the IFS said.
The deficit in the current fiscal year, which ends in March,
will be 2.9 billion pounds lower than the 127 billion pounds
estimated, thanks to a spending undershoot of more than 3
billion pounds, the IFS said.  “A small fiscal loosening would be likely to deliver only
a small boost to the economy, while a big one might risk
undermining investor confidence,” the IFS said in its annual
Green Budget. Osborne is due to present his budget on March 21.  Slower Growth  Today’s report was produced together with  Oxford Economics ,
which predicts the economy will expand 0.3 percent this year,
less than half the 0.7 percent forecast by the  Office for Budget
Responsibility  in November. The composition of growth will be
more “tax-rich,” though, meaning its fiscal forecasts are
similar to those of the OBR, the government’s fiscal watchdog.  If the euro-region debt crisis was allowed to spiral out of
control, it could plunge the U.K. back into a “deep
recession,” with output falling this year and next, causing
national debt to soar, the research group said.  The IFS urged the government to hold its next spending
review no later than the fall of 2013 “given the scale of the
changes being implemented, the uncertainty over the effects of
the cuts and the need for long-term planning.”  Osborne is aiming to rid Britain of a  budget deficit  equal
to 9 percent of gross domestic product by 2017. His 147 billion-
pound ($233 billion) austerity program will cost more than
700,000 government jobs. Critics including the opposition  Labour
Party  say the scale of the squeeze is worsening Britain’s
economic woes.  The Treasury said the IFS report vindicated the plans.
“The IFS says that tackling the deficit is necessary, that
without the government’s deficit plan borrowing would be much
higher, and that any fiscal stimulus big enough to make a
difference would undermine investor confidence and so risk
higher interest rates,” the department said in a statement
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  