-- LightSquared’s Falcone Didn’t Seek Weaker Probe, Harbinger Says
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-02-01T19:26:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/lightsquared-s-falcone-didn-t-seek-weaker-probe-harbinger-says.html
Senator  Charles Grassley  wrongly
suggested that  Philip Falcone  and an adviser sought to weaken
the lawmaker’s inquiry into U.S. handling of the billionaire’s
LightSquared Inc. wireless venture, Falcone’s hedge fund said.  Todd Ruelle, a telecommunications executive, “made no
nefarious suggestions” and Falcone said “a wireless network
for rural America would be a win,” Mark Paoletta, a Washington-
based lawyer, said in a Jan. 31 letter responding to Grassley
that Harbinger Capital Partners released today. The hedge fund
invested $3 billion in LightSquared, which aims to offer high-
speed data service to as many as 260 million people.  Grassley said on Jan. 23 that Falcone and Ruelle had
“implied an invitation to pull punches” in the  Iowa 
Republican’s investigation. Grassley, the top Republican on the
Judiciary Committee, is reviewing whether the Federal
Communications Commission improperly accelerated Reston,
Virginia-based LightSquared’s partial approval last year.  LightSquared remains without final clearance as the FCC and
other regulators weigh test results that show the service’s
signals disrupt global-positioning system equipment used on
autos, tractors, boats and aircraft.  Falcone said in an October e-mail to Grassley’s staff that
LightSquared could be made “a win” for the senator, and Ruelle
in a Jan. 6 telephone conversation with a Grassley staffer said
a call center might be placed in Iowa, Grassley wrote on Jan.
23. The senator said the statements “taken together” implied
an invitation to ease his inquiry.  Grassley Letter ‘Erroneous’  Ruelle told Grassley in a separate letter today that he
provided to Bloomberg News by e-mail that “your letter is
erroneous.” He added that “a quid pro quo was not intended,
nor in my view, even suggested, by my statement.”  In a Jan. 6 e-mail to Grassley’s staff, Ruelle said,
“conduct the investigation. You should,” according to a copy
released by the senator Jan. 23 and mentioned in Ruelle’s letter
today. The comment on call centers came up in response to a
statement by Grassley’s staff that LightSquared wouldn’t create
rural jobs, Ruelle said.  Ruelle “has, on occasion, given Mr. Falcone business
advice,” Paoletta said in his letter. Falcone wanted Ruelle to
set up a meeting between LightSquared and  Deere & Co. (DE) , the farm-
gear maker that has expressed concern about interference from
the proposed service.  Ruelle doesn’t have a contractual relationship with
Falcone, Harbinger or LightSquared, and nobody at the wireless
company or the hedge fund discussed Ruelle’s contacting Grassley
staff in January, Paoletta wrote.  No Contract  Grassley’s letter “is accurate and fully reflects the
contact to his office,” Jill Gerber, a spokeswoman for
Grassley, said in an e-mail when asked about Ruelle’s letter.  Lew Phelps, a spokesman for Harbinger, said in an interview
today that “I don’t know” why Ruelle was contacting Grassley.
“Harbinger had absolutely no knowledge that he was making this
contact,” Phelps said. “He has been specifically told a number
of times that he’s not authorized to represent Harbinger. He did
it without our knowledge, without our blessing.”  In his letter, Ruelle didn’t explain why, in the absence of
a contractual relationship, he contacted Grassley’s office and
when asked, Ruelle in an e-mail responded by referring to the
Harbinger letter, which he called “accurate.”  In his letter, Paoletta also said “we take further issue
with your claim that Mr. Falcone’s e-mail to your staff on Oct.
6 ‘implied an invitation to pull punches.’”  ‘Rural Broadband Problem’  According to Paoletta, Falcone elaborated and clarified in
a Jan. 23 e-mail that said, “finding a solution to the vast
rural broadband problem across the U.S. by building out a
wireless network for rural America would be a win and a good
deed especially if one is located in rural Iowa where there are
many connectivity issues.”  Falcone wants to meet with Grassley “to address any
concerns you may have so that we can move forward on all
relevant issues,” Paoletta said.  “Ruelle made no nefarious suggestions constituting a quid
pro quo, but rather, appears to be referencing call centers in
response to a question from your staff member,” Paoletta said
in the letter.  Ruelle is listed as chief executive officer of Fine Point
Technologies on the New York-based company’s  website . Closely
held Fine Point develops software for network operators,
according to the website.  LightSquared may be running short of money, Jonathan Atkin,
a San Francisco-based analyst with  RBC Capital Markets , said in
an interview on Jan. 13.  Terry Neal , a LightSquared spokesman,
on Jan. 18 said LightSquared has “enough money to last us
several quarters.”  LightSquared’s prospects hinge on overcoming objections
filed to U.S. regulators by makers and users of GPS devices who
say the company inappropriately plans to send powerful signals
on airwaves reserved mainly for faint emissions from satellites.  LightSquared has said GPS manufacturers should have planned
to accommodate the company’s use of the airwaves, and that
technical solutions exist to resolve interference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  