-- Mild Weather in U.S. East Will Mean Less Energy Used in Heating
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-02-01T14:02:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/mild-weather-in-u-s-east-will-mean-less-energy-used-in-heating.html
Mild weather expected to linger in
the eastern U.S. the rest of this week will mean less energy is
needed to warm homes and businesses, forecasters said.  The high temperature in New York’s Central Park is forecast
to be 61 degrees Fahrenheit (16 Celsius) today, according to the
 National Weather Service . Residents of  Washington  will enjoy a
high of 71 degrees.  The Northeast will use 20 to 30 percent less energy to
warm homes through Feb. 8, said  David Salmon , meteorologist for
Weather Derivatives in Belton, Missouri. The South will use 50
to 60 percent less.  Traders use long-range temperature predictions to gauge
energy use and demand for heating and cooling.  Power plants 
consume about 30 percent of the nation’s natural gas supplies,
according to Energy Department data.  Natural gas futures yesterday posted the biggest January
loss in three years as forecasts for milder weather and
increased production signaled no end to a glut of the fuel.  For the next seven days, Salmon said, average temperatures
may be 6 to 10 degrees above normal in the East, excluding  New
England , and 10 degrees above normal from the western  Great
Lakes  to the  Gulf Coast .  High temperatures in Chicago are expected to reach into the
mid-40s through the week, according to the weather service. In
 St. Louis , highs will be in the 50s through most of the week and
possibly 60 tomorrow.  Atlanta will have temperatures in the 60s, while Dallas and
Houston will have highs in the 70s, the agency said.  Texas Cooler  Temperatures across the South may return to more seasonal
levels next week and may be even cooler in Texas, according to
6- to 10-day forecasts from Commodity Weather Group LLC and  MDA
EarthSat Weather .  The two companies differ on whether the Northeast will cool
as well.  According to the 6- to 10-day forecast from MDA in
Gaithersburg, Maryland, temperatures in the Northeast will be 3
to 4 degrees above normal from Feb. 6 to Feb. 10.  In its forecast for the same time period, Commodity Weather
calls for the Northeast to have more seasonal temperatures.  “We have to watch some colder risks this weekend and then
again toward next weekend in the Northeast as some cold from
Canada passes through the region,” said Commodity Weather
President  Matt Rogers  in Bethesda, Maryland.  The average temperature in  New York  for Feb. 2 is 34
degrees, according to MDA. In Boston, it’s 30; in Chicago, 24;
Atlanta, 45; Houston, 54; Seattle, 43; and Burbank, California,
56.  In their 11- to 15-day outlooks, both MDA and Commodity
Weather predict above-average temperatures will spread from the
upper Great Plains to the Northeast and Canadian Maritime
provinces from Feb. 11 to Feb. 15.  Commodity Weather predicts the southern U.S. will have
seasonal temperatures in that time frame, while MDA calls for
above-average temperatures to spread into the Southwest, Texas
and Arkansas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  