-- IMF Criticizes Argentina’s ‘Absence of Progress’ on Inflation, GDP Data
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2012-02-02T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/imf-regrets-absence-of-progress-on-improving-argentine-inflation-index.html
The  International Monetary Fund  urged
 Argentina  to improve its  consumer price  and economic growth
data, which economists say underestimates one of the fastest
inflation rates in the world.  The IMF yesterday criticized the “absence of progress”
shown by Argentina in improving its statistics. President
Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s government needs to undertake
specific steps to ensure that it meets “the obligations of all
member countries to provide accurate data” within 180 days, the
Washington-based lender  said .  Argentine consumer prices rose 23 percent last year, the
most among the Group of 20 nations, according to opposition
lawmakers who base their estimates on reports by economists
facing fines of 500,000 pesos ($115,000) for questioning the
government’s data. The national statistics agency said prices
climbed 9.5 percent in December from a year earlier.  “The level of frustration by the IMF and the markets is
rising because they have not seen any significant progress in
improving the quality of the official statistics, mainly on
inflation and GDP,” said  Alberto Ramos , senior Latin America
economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in  New York .  Argentine bonds linked to the official inflation index fell
25 percent last year as the government fined researchers and
failed to implement the recommendations of an IMF report
requested by Fernandez and submitted in April. Latin American
inflation-linked debt fell 0.7 percent over the same period,
according to  Barclays Capital .  Poor Quality  Press officials at the Economy Ministry and national
statistics institute didn’t return a message left by Bloomberg
News. Norberto Itzcovich, the statistics institute’s technical
director, said last September that the methodology used by
independent researchers wasn’t of the quality required to
accurately measure inflation.  Argentine economists began releasing their own inflation
reports in 2007, after then-President  Nestor Kirchner  changed
personnel at the national statistics institute in what he said
was a bid to “improve operations.”  Annual economic growth in  South America ’s second-biggest
economy is overstated by as much as 2 or 3 percentage points as
a result of the government’s low inflation estimates, said
Ramos. The government said gross domestic product climbed 9.2
percent last year.  In 2010, Fernandez asked the IMF to help create an index
that would reflect current nationwide consumption habits. The
government has refused to let the fund review its finances since
2006, when it paid off its $9.8 billion debt to the lender.
Kirchner blamed the IMF for pushing the country into a financial
crisis that led to a 2001 default on $95 billion of bonds.  Delayed Index  The Argentine government received “specific
recommendations on the design and methodology for developing a
new national CPI,” the IMF said in a statement last April. No
new index has since been introduced and Itzcovich said in
September that one won’t be released until 2013.  “The Executive Board regretted the absence of progress in
aligning the  Consumer Price Index  for Greater  Buenos Aires   with
international statistical guidelines and took note of the
authorities’ intentions to adopt some remedial measures to
address the quality of its reported gross domestic product
data,” the IMF said in its statement yesterday.  Last month, Gerry Rice, director of the IMF’s external
relations department, said the board wouldn’t apply sanctions
against the country for not complying with its recommendations.  The IMF board will next meet Sept. 6 to review any changes
made by Argentina.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  