-- Cost Impasse May Provoke Shorter Payroll Tax-Cut Extension
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-02-01T20:44:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/impasse-may-provoke-short-term-payroll-tax-cut-fix-baucus-says.html
Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus  said lawmakers may have to agree to an extension of a
 payroll tax  cut for workers that falls short of a full year if
they can’t reach a deal on covering the measure’s cost.  “If we cannot agree on the pay-for, we might have to look
to other options for the  payroll tax ,” such as not extending
the  tax cut  “for the full time,” Baucus said today at a
conference committee meeting in Washington.  House and Senate negotiators are seeking to extend the two-
percentage point reduction in the payroll tax for workers
through 2012, which would cost the Treasury about $100 billion.
Lawmakers in December passed a two-month extension of the tax
cut, which expires Feb. 29, because they couldn’t agree on how
to finance a longer continuation.  At the second public meeting of the conference committee
appointed to seek agreement on a yearlong extension, lawmakers
remained far apart on how and whether to cover the full cost of
the measure. Panel chairman Representative  Dave Camp , a  Michigan 
Republican, said after the meeting that Baucus’s comments
sounded a “cautionary note.”  “We may not be able to do all we want to do if we can’t
find agreement on pay-fors,” Camp told reporters. “It was an
important cautionary note. I certainly agree with it.”  ‘A Month or So’  Baucus would only consider shaving off a short amount of
time if lawmakers can’t agree on a plan to carry the tax cut
through the end of 2012, said his spokesman, Scott Mulhauser.  “Chairman Baucus believes we simply must find a viable way
to pay for the remainder of the year,” Mulhauser said in an e-
mailed statement. “Only if that becomes untenable would he even
consider carving back a month or so.”  During today’s meeting, Camp pressed colleagues to discuss
later how to pay for the extension.  “The faster we can move through the policies, the more
quickly we can move to the question of pay-fors,” Camp said.  Democratic lawmakers criticized that request.
Representative  Sander Levin  of Michigan, the top Democrat on the
Ways and Means Committee, said policy discussions can’t be split
from the debate over financing the extension.  “Separating policy from the pay-fors is problematic
because the pay-fors involve policy,” he said.  Representative  Chris Van Hollen , a Maryland Democrat, said
Republicans were wrong to insist on covering the cost of the
payroll tax cut when they didn’t require paying for extensions
of the 2001 and 2003 income tax cuts, which included breaks for
high earners.  ‘Fiscally Responsible’  “As we pursue this conversation, we should consider what
has been a different standard set by certain members of Congress
with respect to what we pay for and what we don’t pay for,”  Van
Hollen  said.  Senator  Mike Crapo , an Idaho Republican, said the panel
must act “in a way that’s fiscally responsible.”  “We need to be paying very close attention to our national
debt,” he said.  In addition to expiration of the payroll tax cut, a failure
to reach agreement would reduce  unemployment benefits  from a
maximum of 99 weeks to 26 weeks and decrease doctors’  Medicare (NHEXGAMD) 
reimbursements.  Lawmakers spent two about two and a half hours today
debating unemployment benefits, Medicare reimbursements and
whether the payroll tax break should be extended through 2012.  Baucus said Senate Democrats plan to offer  House
Republicans  a proposal on the  unemployment compensation  system
at a meeting tomorrow.  Lawmakers said they have been able to agree on a few
matters, such as the need for the payroll tax cut to be extended
beyond Feb. 29 and for continuing some level of expanded
unemployment benefits.  An agreement would require support from a majority of each
chamber among the 20 lawmakers on the committee to be sent to
the full House and Senate for a vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in  Washington  at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  