-- India Edges Maoist Rebels From Mining Zone, Chidambaram Says
-- B y   J a m e s   R u p e r t   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2012-02-02T07:06:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/india-edging-maoists-from-mineral-laden-land-chidambaram-says.html
India  is winning command over
mineral-rich areas where Maoist guerrilla attacks deter billions
of dollars in potential investment, Home Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said, one year after he declared the conflict
deadlocked.  “Albeit slowly, we are gaining control of the situation,”
reversing Maoist advances that began after 2004, Chidambaram
said in a 40-minute interview on counter-terrorism, Pakistan and
prospects for expanding foreign investment in India’s economy.
“The earlier estimate that in three to four years we will be
able to gain ascendancy was an optimistic estimate,” he said.
“That I am willing to concede.”  Chidambaram told a conference in 2009 that reinforced
police battalions in heavily forested Maoist enclaves would
eliminate a rebel-run zone whose area is as big as  Portugal . On
Feb. 1 last year, he described “a kind of stalemate” in the
insurgency, which blocks mining of bauxite, iron and other
minerals.  Execution Noble Ltd. , a London-based financial
services company, said in 2010 that the region had the potential
to draw $80 billion of investment.  The minister declined to specify what period now may be
needed to defeat the rebels beyond saying “it will take a few
more years.” He spoke in his high-ceilinged office in the red
sandstone secretariat built a century ago as the seat of
Britain’s colonial government.  Harvard Graduate  Chidambaram, 66, a lawyer and Harvard Business School
graduate from India’s southern state of  Tamil Nadu , is one of
the most prominent members of the Congress party-led government.
As finance minister from 2004 until 2008, he oversaw record
 economic growth  that averaged 8.5 percent a year.  India’s  Supreme Court  today ordered a lower court to decide
whether to investigate Chidambaram’s role in the under-pricing
of mobile phone company licenses, one of several corruption
scandals that last year stalled policy-making by Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh ’s government and lowered investors’ confidence in
the $1.7 trillion economy.  Singh moved Chidambaram to the Home Ministry amid public
anger over the 2008 attack on Mumbai by 10 Pakistani guerrillas
that killed 166 people.  Pakistani Trial  Pakistan  and India have fought three wars since they
separated at their independence from British rule in 1947, and
Pakistan backs Islamic militant groups that oppose India’s claim
to the disputed territory of Kashmir. While India demands that
Pakistan prosecute seven men it is holding as accused
masterminds of the Mumbai assault, Chidambaram voiced little
hope that a visit set for this week by Pakistani investigators
might advance the process.  “They’ve changed the judge four times, they’ve not
examined a single witness,” Chidambaram said of Pakistani
authorities. “I don’t think there is a political will to start
the trial there.”  Chidambaram said a hostile parliamentary opposition, and
Singh’s retreat in December on a plan to allow investment by
foreign retail chains such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , have helped
create “impressions that the government is frozen in its
tracks, but that is not true.” He cited the country’s average
annual growth of almost 8 percent from 2008 to 2011, despite the
global recession.  State Elections  While the Congress party should win three of five state
elections to be held by early March, it remains unclear whether
that will weaken the political foes of retail investment by
overseas companies selling multiple brands, Chidambaram said.
“The only way in a democracy is to continue to engage in
discussions with them and bring them along.”  Chidambaram didn’t discuss the court hearings triggered by
Subramanian Swamy, a political rival who says he should be
prosecuted for failing as finance minister to prevent the
telecommunications ministry from under-pricing cellphone
licenses in 2008. Chidambaram said last year he urged an auction
of the permits instead of their issuance for fees fixed more
than six years earlier.  The Maoist insurgents, whom Singh calls India’s greatest
internal threat, launched offensives after 2004 for which “the
government was, if I may say, unprepared both in terms of policy
and capacity,” Chidambaram said.  Since 2008, “we have now virtually doubled the number of
security forces deployed in Maoist areas,” he said. “It has
taken us three years to equip and train these.”  ‘Rule Through Fear’  While the Maoists are “on the defensive” in parts of
Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and West Bengal states, they have
“consolidated themselves” in Maharashtra and Orissa, he said.  “They rule through fear and intimidation,” Chidambaram
said. “In 2011, out of the 464 civilians killed, 216 were
killed after being named as police informers.” Many of them
died in public executions held in Maoist-run villages, he said.  The Maoists say they are fighting for the rights of poor
villagers and tribal communities whose resources are, the rebels
argue, being exploited to propel  India’s economy  with few
benefits for local people. The rebels have killed more than
8,900 civilians and security personnel since 1998.  Indian police for years have abused civilians in the fight
against the Maoists, according to New York-based  Human Rights
Watch . While India’s Supreme Court in October ordered an
independent probe into allegations that police in Chhattisgarh
tortured and sexually assaulted a schoolteacher whom they
accused of links to the rebels, “authorities have not initiated
any inquiry or criminal action against the police officers
implicated,”  Human Rights Watch  said in a Jan. 31 statement.  Leaders Killed  The reinforced police have failed to recapture significant
territory, said Ajai Sahni, executive director of the New Delhi-
based Institute for Conflict Management.  Instead, they made gains because “Chidambaram last year
shifted his focus to narrow, intelligence-led operations,
overwhelmingly targeting the Maoists’ leadership,” Sahni said
by phone. Of 39 Maoists elected to the movement’s central
committee in 2007, 18 have been killed or arrested, he said.  A lasting containment of the guerrillas will require better
police leadership and training, Sahni said. Chidambaram said he
will focus his next two years on building up state units, which
rather than federal police are mainly responsible for  law
enforcement .  Maoist guerrillas are active in a dozen of India’s 28
states, many of which are rich in  iron ore , coal, bauxite and
manganese. The epicenter of Maoist violence lies in the forests
of the eastern state of Chhattisgarh.  NMDC Ltd. (NMDC) , India’s largest
iron-ore producer, operates its biggest mine in the region, and
 Essar Steel Ltd. (ESRGJ) , the country’s fourth-ranked producer of the
alloy, plans to build a $1.5 billion steel plant there.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
James Rupert in New Delhi at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  