-- Indiana Sends Right-to-Work Bill to Gov. Daniels
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s   a n d   S a m m   Q u i n n
-- 2012-02-01T17:57:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/indiana-senate-sends-right-to-work-bill-for-governor-daniels-s-signature.html
Indiana (STOIN1)  will become the nation’s 23rd
right-to-work state after its Senate exempted nonunion employees
from paying dues when working alongside their unionized
colleagues.  The vote was 28-22, sending the measure to Republican
Governor  Mitch Daniels  for his promised signature. The
Republican-controlled  House of Representatives  passed the bill
Jan. 26, ending three weeks of Democratic boycotts that
prevented the chamber from operating.  Republican Senator Carlin Yoder, the bill’s sponsor, said
unions “will still be allowed to exist.” During floor debate,
Yoder said right to work gives “freedom to those who don’t want
to be part of something they don’t believe in.”  Twenty-two states, mostly in the Deep South and the Rocky
Mountain West, have enacted right-to-work laws. Republican gains
in the 2010 elections prompted legislation in states including
Wisconsin and  Ohio  aimed at restricting bargaining rights for
government workers’ unions.  The measured approved today in Indianapolis targets labor
contracts with businesses. Union members composed 10.9 percent
of the state’s workforce in 2010, according to the  U.S. Bureau
of Labor Statistics . That’s down from 15.4 percent in 2000.  Expecting Less  Republican lawmakers say the measure is a cost-cutting,
job-creating tool, while Democrats call it union-busting that
will lower wages.  “There is no empirical evidence, if you take the time to
read the studies, that right to work creates one job,”
Democratic Senator Vi Simpson said in debate before the vote.
“We can expect lower wages for our people.”  Senators debated the bill for almost two hours as union
members chanted outside and inside the statehouse, “Kill the
bill.”  After the vote, the opponents began a protest march from
the capitol to Lucas Oil Stadium, where the  Super Bowl  will be
played Feb. 5. Frank Straub, director of the Indianapolis
Department of Public Safety, estimated the crowd at between
3,000 and 4,000.  The bill will be sent to Daniels’ desk today and, once
signed, will take effect March 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  