-- Indian Bond Yields Tumble to Nine-Month Low as RBI Buys Debt: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-02-01T12:35:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/indian-bond-yields-tumble-to-nine-month-low-as-rbi-resumes-debt-purchases.html
India ’s 10-year  bonds  gained, pushing
yields to the lowest level in almost nine months, on optimism
debt purchases by the central bank will ease a cash squeeze.  The  Reserve Bank  of India will buy as much as 100 billion
rupees ($2 billion) of fixed-income securities on Feb. 3, it
said in a statement yesterday. The monetary authority, which has
bought 719 billion rupees of notes since November, refrained
from purchasing debt in open-market operations last week. The
 finance ministry  has a target to borrow a record 5.1 trillion
rupees in the fiscal year ending March 31.  “Bond purchases will help mitigate the liquidity crunch
and reduce pressure from heavy debt sales,” said  Anoop Verma , a
fixed-income trader at Development Credit Bank in Mumbai. “The
open-market operations may help soften yields further.”  The rate on the 8.79 percent notes due November 2021 fell
13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage point, to 8.15 percent in
Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading system. That’s
the lowest level for a benchmark 10-year bond since May 2,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield, which has declined 42 basis points this year,
may touch 8 percent before the budget in March, Verma said.  Last week, the RBI cut the cash-reserve  ratio  by 50 basis
points to 5.5 percent, the first time since 2009, to boost the
availability of funds in the banking system. The next review is
scheduled for March 15. Another reduction is “always on the
table,” central bank Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn said
yesterday. “We will consider the cash-reserve ratio cut, if it
does happen, only in the mid-quarter review.”  Bank Borrowing  The cost of one-year interest-rate swaps, or derivative
contracts used to guard against fluctuations in funding costs,
fell two basis points to 8.14 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Lenders borrowed an  average  1.1 trillion rupees a day from
the central bank to meet shortages in the past three months, up
from 515 billion rupees in the prior period, official data show.  Cash conditions will continue to be tight as the widening
trade deficit may exert pressure on the rupee, prompting the
central bank to sell dollars, said Mahendra Jajoo, the Mumbai-
based head of fixed income at Pramerica Asset Managers, a unit
of Newark, New Jersey-based Prudential Financial Inc.  Trade Deficit  India’s trade  deficit  was $12.7 billion in December,
compared with $8.07 billion a year earlier, the commerce
ministry said in an e-mailed statement today. The shortfall for
April to December was $133.27 billion, compared with $96.21
billion in the same period in 2010.  “The trade-deficit problem isn’t going to go away anytime
soon,” Jajoo said. “The rupee will have a tendency to weaken
unless you see a significant improvement in capital flows.”  The rupee fell 16 percent in 2011, the worst performance
among  Asia ’s 10 most-traded currencies. It has rebounded 7.7
percent this year, the most in the region. Overseas investors
boosted holdings of local debt by $3.2 billion as of Jan. 30,
and investment in stocks rose $2.1 billion, according to the
Securities & Exchange Board of India.  Jajoo predicts the RBI may cut the cash-reserve ratio again
before the March policy review.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  