-- Indonesia Inflation Slows a Fifth Month, Providing Scope to Keep Rates Low
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   W i d y a   U t a m i
-- 2012-02-01T06:39:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/indonesia-inflation-eases-providing-scope-to-cut-interest-rate.html
Indonesia ’s inflation slowed for a
fifth straight month in January, bolstering the case for the
central bank to keep  interest rates  low as global growth falters.  Consumer prices  rose 3.65 percent last month from a year
earlier after climbing 3.79 percent in December, the  Central
Bureau of Statistics  said in Jakarta today. The median estimate
of 24 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a 3.61
percent increase.  Asian policy makers have shifted their focus to encouraging
growth rather than stemming inflation, as  Europe ’s sovereign
debt woes increase the risk of another global recession.  Bank
Indonesia , which cut borrowing costs twice in the final quarter
of 2011, has kept the benchmark rate unchanged at 6 percent in
the past two policy meetings while widening the lower range of
its interbank lending rate to push borrowing costs lower.  “Despite inflation staying soft, we think BI may continue
to err on the side of caution and keep its rate unchanged next
week, although recent export data look worrying enough,”  Gundy
Cahyadi , an economist at Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. in
 Singapore , said after the report. “Exports growth continued to
fall, and certainly doesn’t bode well for growth prospects going
forward.”  The rupiah fell 0.1 percent in Jakarta today after the
report, according to prices from local banks compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency gained 0.8 percent last month.  Exports Ease  Consumer prices climbed 0.76 percent in January from the
previous month, today’s report showed. Core inflation eased to
4.29 percent, compared with a previously reported 4.34 percent
pace for December.  Exports (IDEXPY)  rose 2.2 percent in December from a year earlier,
the statistics department said, the slowest rate of increase in
more than two years. Imports rose 24.3 percent in December. The
country had a trade surplus of $859 million in December,
compared with a median forecast for $1.85 billion in a Bloomberg
News survey of 16 economists.  Indonesia’s exports may reach $230 billion this year as the
government plans to boost sales to  Africa , Eastern Europe and
Central Asia to counter weaker demand from Europe, Deputy Trade
Minister Bayu Krisnamurthi said Jan. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  