-- Indonesian Bourse Starts Trading Physical Tin Contract in Challenge to LME
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2012-02-01T11:20:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/indonesia-plans-to-start-trading-physical-tin-contract-in-challenge-to-lme.html
An exchange in  Indonesia , the world’s
largest tin exporter, started trading a physical contract today
to create an alternative to the benchmark on the London Metal
Exchange after twice delaying the initiative.  The Indonesia Commodity & Derivatives Exchange, which
offers palm oil and gold, had two lots of 5 metric tons each
traded before the contract settled at $24,500 a ton. The
introduction was delayed from Dec. 15 and Jan. 12 to allow
potential users more time to prepare.  Tin rallied 27 percent last month, the biggest gain since
at least July 1989, as  stockpiles  fell. Indonesia represents
about 40 percent of global exports, and the move to set up the
new benchmark was supported by the government through the
Commodity Futures Trading Regulatory Agency and  PT Timah (TINS) , the
country’s biggest producer. At present, the LME, the world’s
largest metals bourse, offers cash and futures trading in tin.  “The LME will be the main benchmark for tin for a long
time; it’s a relatively big-volume market,” Peter Kettle,
research manager at  St. Albans , England-based ITRI Ltd., said in
an e-mail. “However, there is no reason why the ICDX can’t also
work, as long as there are enough buyers and sellers.”  Syahrul Sempurnajaya, the head of the Commodity Futures
Trading Regulatory Agency, said in December that it was time for
Southeast  Asia ’s largest economy “to have our own market and
price.” The planned tin trading may be a “stepping stone” for
other base-metal contracts, he said.  Stockpiles Slump  There are 13 companies so far including Timah, PT Refined
Bangka Tin, Noble Resources International Pte. Ltd and  Toyota
Tsusho Corp. (8015)  that have already registered as sellers and buyers
for the new tin contract, according to a statement from the
futures trading regulator.  Three-month tin ended at $24,345 per ton on the LME
yesterday as stockpiles monitored by the exchange dropped 25
percent over the month to 9,100 tons, the lowest level since
March 2009. The metal was little changed at $24,333 a ton at
6:54 p.m. in  Singapore  today.  Liz Milan, managing director of LME Asia, declined to
comment today on the ICDX’s plan when contacted by phone. The
LME, which was founded in 1877, has traded tin since its
inception, according to the bourse’s website.  Tin producers in Indonesia including PT Timah agreed to a
voluntary ban on spot exports from last October to December in a
bid to reverse a slide in prices. Tin plunged 13 percent in
August and a further 17 percent in September amid concern a
global recession may curb demand.  ‘About Time’  “It’s about time for us as the world’s biggest tin
exporter to have our own credible and reliable market,” Deputy
Trade Minister Bayu Krisnamurthi said before trading began.
“The path starts today to create a new reference tin price.”  The ICDX tin contract covers 5 tons of metal with purity of
99.9 percent, Chief Executive Officer Megain Widjaja said by
phone today. Delivery will be from Pangkalbalam and Muntok on
Bangka Island in the main tin-producing region.  The Jakarta Futures Exchange plans to offer physical and
futures trading in tin this year, according to Roy Sembel, a
director at the bourse that’s known as JFX. He didn’t give a
specific date.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  