-- Infineon Shares Rise as 2012 Outlook Improves: Munich Mover
-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 2012-02-01T11:15:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/infineon-sees-flat-q2-sales-after-earnings-drop.html
Infineon Technologies AG (IFX)  rose the
most since September after saying sales in the current quarter
will at most fall slightly from its fiscal first-quarter, when
revenue dropped 9 percent sequentially.  The operating margin in the quarter ending March 31 will
fall by about 1 percentage point from 14.9 percent in the first
quarter, Munich-based Infineon,  Europe ’s second-largest 
semiconductor maker, said in a statement today.  “For those of us who have covered Infineon for many years,
the fact that they are guiding to a 14 percent margin at what is
likely to be the bottom of the cycle is a function of how far
the company has come from its loss-making past,”  Sandeep Deshpande , an analyst at JP Morgan, said in an e-mail. He has an
overweight rating with a 9.25 euro target price on Infineon.  Infineon said it sees “continued confidence” from
automotive customers and “some early signs” of stabilization
in the market for chips for security on credit and identity
cards while “seasonal weakness” will drive a decline in chips
that improve power efficiency and go into  wind turbines . IHS
iSuppli said yesterday that semiconductor industry sales will
rise by “a slight 3.3 percent” to $323.2 billion this year,
because of “the ambiguous state of the global economy, along
with assorted troubles in the world’s major markets.”  ‘Slightly More Positive’  The shares of the company, which is based in the Munich
suburb Neubiberg,  Germany , rose as much as 5.8 percent and were
4.5 percent higher at 7.29 euros at 12:08 p.m. in Frankfurt
trading, making it the best performer on the DAX index today.  While the chipmaker confirmed its forecast for the fiscal
2012 that ends Sept. 30, Chief Executive Officer  Peter Bauer 
said his view on the year is “slightly more positive” now than
three months ago when Infineon said sales are  expected  to fall
by a “mid single-digit” percentage and the operating margin
will be a “low to mid-teens.”  “The consumer, computing, and telecommunication markets
have probably reached the floor in the current quarter,” Bauer
said on a call with analysts today. “It’s still kind of
unpredictable where the industrial business will go during the
year, so we stick to a decline, but with a slightly more
positive mood than before.”  Operating profit first quarter, ended Dec. 31, fell to 141
million euros ($184 million) from 177 million euros a year
earlier as sales rose 2.6 percent to 946 million euros, coming
in ahead of the average operating profit of 127 million euros
and sales of 934 million euros that  analysts  polled by Bloomberg
had  estimated .  ‘Strong Resilience’  “Infineon has proven strong resilience in recent months
and, in line with peers, is about to face a better-than-typical
seasonality in the second quarter, likely the inflection point
for a semi industry recovery, following recent de-stocking,”
Bernd Laux, an analyst at Cheuvreux in Frankfurt, said in an e-
mail. Laux has an “outperform” rating on the stock.  Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest chipmaker, said Jan. 19
that first-quarter revenue may top analysts’ estimates as
personal computer production rises again and as investments in
data centers made up for weakness related to Europe’s credit
crisis.  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN)  last week reported fourth quarter
sales that exceeded estimates, suggesting the industry may be
nearing the end of a sales slump.  Infineon’s first-quarter net income fell to 96 million
euros, compared with 232 million euros a year earlier, which
included the wireless chip unit that was sold to Intel. Analysts
had estimated net income of 104 million euros. The operating
margin was 14.9 percent in the quarter compared with the
estimate in the survey of 13.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in  Frankfurt  at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  