-- Invisible Speakers Make Bose TV a Sound Buy: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2012-02-01T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/invisible-speakers-make-bose-tv-a-sound-buy-rich-jaroslovsky.html
Any big-box electronics store will
sell you a perfectly decent 46-inch TV for around $700. So why
would you ever pay $5,000 for one?  Well, you might if it’s the  Bose VideoWave , which couples a
flat-screen, 1080p high-definition, liquid-crystal display
screen with vivid, room-filling sound from an invisible home-
theater system. That’s invisible, as in: No external speakers.
No wires. No hassle.  Best known for audio products like its iconic Wave radios,
Bose, achieves this miracle by building its acoustic technology
directly into the display. Technically, it isn’t true surround
sound, but unless you’re a serious audiophile, you’re unlikely
to care.  I’ve had a system borrowed from the company in my study at
home for the last couple of months, and while I’m not sure I
could justify spending that much of my own money on it, I’ll
definitely miss it when it’s gone.  The system comprises the display itself and a console about
the size of a DVR that acts as the master controller. The
console is the only thing that plugs into the screen. Everything
else -- cable or satellite receiver, Xbox,  Apple  TV, what have
you -- plugs into the console.  In the case of the VideoWave, “flat” doesn’t mean
“thin.” This is one honking big hunk of electronics. It’s a
full six inches thick and weighs 97 pounds -- 106 if you count
the included table stand.  Six Woofers  No wonder it’s so hefty: Sandwiched inside are six woofers
matched to a proprietary waveguide for deep, full bass. Seven
more speakers channel sound throughout the room, creating the
illusion that it’s all around you.  The VideoWave system comes with a special headset used to
optimize the audio output for your specific room. The console
can guide you through the process, but with any luck, you’ll
never have to use it. That’s because the $4,999 price tag
includes not only delivery but professional set-up and
configuration by the company. Once they get it just so, the only
time you’d need to reconfigure it would be if your room
furnishings changed.  Or if, heaven forbid, you wanted to move it.  Apocalypse Now  I found the 2D screen, made by  Samsung , to be crisp and
bright when viewed head-on, though with some washout if you’re
too far off to the side. Little matter, though: You’ll want to
be head-on to get the full benefit of the sound, which maintains
an impressive richness, both at lower volume and at more
thunderous levels.  I found the VideoWave’s sound to be markedly superior to
the mid-range 5:1 home-theater system I have hooked up to my
usual TV. The immersive sound is good enough that I sometimes
would tune the VideoWave into one of my cable provider’s digital
music channels, effectively turning it into the world’s most
expensive tabletop radio.  All this is controlled with one of the simplest universal
remote controls I’ve ever used. It has only a few buttons --
on/off, volume, channel and the like. Most other functions are
controlled by a clickable trackpad. Touch it, and the
VideoWave’s picture shrinks into the center of the screen, to be
surrounded by various options that you select by moving your
finger around the trackpad and clicking it.  Remote Envy  I’d love to have a remote like that for my other TVs --
especially since Bose’s installers take care of configuring it
to control all your other gear. The convenience of the remote
and reduction in aggravation alone should be worth at least a
couple of hundred bucks of the purchase price.  But is the VideoWave really worth five bills? For that much
money, you could certainly build yourself quite a home
entertainment system. But when you figure in the delivery and
professional set-up, the utter simplicity of the system and
remote, and the absence of wires and speakers, maybe the
VideoWave isn’t quite so off the wall after all.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 