-- Lira Rises to 3-Month High as Exports, PMI Signal Lower Deficit
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-02-01T16:17:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/lira-gains-for-second-day-as-exports-pmi-signal-lower-current-account-gap.html
The lira strengthened the most in
almost three months as a fall in a manufacturing gauge and rise
in exports signaled cooling domestic demand and a reduction in
Turkey’s record current-account deficit.  The Turkish currency appreciated 0.8 percent to 1.7622 per
dollar as of 5:02 p.m. in Istanbul, advancing to its highest
level since Nov. 6.  Yields (BENCH)  on the benchmark two-year debt fell
for a fifth day to their lowest since Oct. 20, down 10 basis
points, or 0.1 percentage point, to 9.34 percent, a Turk Ekonomi
Bankasi AS index showed.  Turkey’s manufacturing purchasing managers’ index fell to
51.7 in January from 52.0 in December, according to the HSBC PMI
released by  Markit Economics . This is the lowest figure since
September. Turkish exports in January rose 10 percent from a
year earlier to $10.6 billion, Bloomberg HT television said,
citing preliminary figures announced by the Turkish Exporters
Assembly.  “The picture is consistent with our and the central bank’s
assessment that the economy is cooling noticeably,”  Tevfik Aksoy , London-based chief economist for the region at  Morgan
Stanley & Co ., said in an e-mailed note.  The lira slumped 18 percent last year in the biggest
decline worldwide as the nation’s  current-account deficit 
reached a record 10 percent of the gross domestic product, the
highest rate among 60 major economies tracked by the
 International Monetary Fund .  Lira Futures Rise  “The cooling domestic demand has facilitated the narrowing
of the current-account deficit. We also expect the Turkish
central bank to tighten monetary conditions further and credit
to slow further,” Credit Agricole analysts including emerging-
market strategist Guillaume Tresca in Paris said in a note.  The lira futures for Feb. 29 settlement rose to 1.77, a
record high. The forecast total return from the lira in 2012 is
the second-highest at 10.3 percent among more than 20 emerging-
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Is Investment Securities,  Turkey ’s biggest broker,
recommended investing in two-year local Turkish bonds, saying
the paper may return more than 15 percent this year in dollar
terms as inflation is expected to fall.  “It is definite that the markets expect inflation for the
next two years to be below the current yield on two-year
bonds,” Ugur N. Kucuk fixed-income strategist at Is Investment
in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments.  The central bank expects inflation to fall to 6.5 percent
this year, Governor Erdem Basci said yesterday at a news
conference in Istanbul, from a three-year high of 10.5 percent
in December 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  