-- Iran Gasoline Imports Fall as Nation Adapts to Tighter Sanctions, GAO Says
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-02-01T19:26:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/iran-gasoline-imports-fall-as-nation-adapts-to-tighter-sanctions-gao-says.html
Iran  has adapted to tightened
sanctions by decreasing its dependence on imported refined
petroleum products, as the U.S. stepped up penalties on foreign
firms involved in Iran’s energy industry, according to two
reports released today by the U.S. Government Accountability
Office.  “Iran has attempted to reduce its dependence on foreign
refined petroleum products by reducing gasoline subsidies to its
citizens in order to reduce demand, converting petrochemical
facilities to produce gasoline, as well as expediting the
construction of new refineries or the expansion of current
refineries,” one report concluded, citing officials from the
U.S. Departments of State and Energy.  The report said Iran’s imports of gasoline had declined
from 130,000 barrels a day in 2009 to 50,000 barrels a day last
year, according to Petroleum Intelligence Weekly.  The U.S. has imposed numerous sanctions on Iran, including
legislation signed into law July 1, 2010, that provides for
sanctions against foreign firms that engage in certain
activities in Iran’s energy sector, including selling or
providing Iran with refined petroleum.  Since the enactment of the July 2010 law, Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  has sanctioned 13 foreign firms under the
Iran Sanctions Act, two for investments in Iran’s energy sector
and 11 for supplying Iran with refined petroleum products. The
sanctions made 10 firms ineligible to receive U.S. government
contracts, and the administration is in the process of listing
the remaining three, the second report said.  Fewer Sellers  None of the 13 firms sanctioned by the State Department
held U.S. government contracts, were registered for
solicitations for contracts, or submitted an offer after the
certification requirement went into effect, the report said.  Even so, the number of firms selling refined petroleum
products to Iran has decreased in the last year, the GAO said,
citing open-source reports.  Eleven of the 16 firms cited in a 2010 report were reported
in open sources or indicated in letters to the GAO that they had
ceased sales of refined petroleum products to Iran. The GAO
report identified four foreign firms --  Petróleos de Venezuela
SA , China Oil, Unipec, and Zhuhai Zhenrong -- as reported to
have sold refined petroleum products to Iran between July 1,
2010, and December 31, 2011.  The U.S has steadily tightened sanctions on Iran over the
past few years in an effort to hit Iran’s economy and pressure
its leadership to abandon illicit elements of its nuclear
program.  Iran’s Oil Income  The U.S., European allies and  Israel  accuse Iran of trying
to acquire the ability to build nuclear weapons. Iran’s leaders
say their program is solely for civilian energy and medical
research.  Oil is Iran’s main source of income, supplying more than 50
percent of the national budget, according to International
Monetary Fund figures. Oil provided the Persian Gulf nation $56
billion in the first seven months of 2011, according to the U.S.
Energy Department.  Crude for March delivery fell 84 cents a barrel to $97.64
at 2:06 p.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Iran, the second-largest oil producer in the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries after  Saudi Arabia , pumped
about 3.545 million barrels of oil a day last month, a Bloomberg
survey showed, and exported an average 2.58 million barrels a
day in 2010, according to OPEC statistics.  The GAO reports were prepared for the Senate  Homeland
Security  and Governmental Affairs Committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  