-- Israeli Army Chief Says Nation Needs to Build Up Military to Strike Iran
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-02-01T23:02:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/israel-must-be-ready-to-hit-iran-if-sanctions-fail-gantz-says.html
Israeli Army Chief of Staff
Lieutenant-General Benny Gantz said his country must build up
its military capabilities and be prepared to strike if economic
sanctions fail to prevent  Iran  from developing nuclear weapons.  Israel  must be “willing to deploy” its military assets
because Iran may be within a year of gaining nuclear weapons
capability, Gantz said yesterday.  Iran and the  International Atomic Energy Agency  wrapped up
a round of talks this week aimed at resolving Western suspicions
that Iran is seeking to develop nuclear-bomb capability, and
officials said they planned further discussions.  “There is no doubt that Iran is striving for a bomb,”
Gantz said in an address to the annual Herzliya Conference at
the Interdisciplinary Center academic campus north of Tel Aviv.
Its activities “must be disrupted,” he said.  U.S. intelligence agencies think Iran is developing
capabilities to produce nuclear weapons “should it chose to do
so,”  James Clapper , the U.S. director of national intelligence,
told the Senate Intelligence Committee Jan. 31.  “We do not know, however, if Iran will eventually decide
to build nuclear weapons,” he said.  In Washington, a policy group called for providing Israel
with additional bunker-buster bombs to increase pressure on Iran
not to go nuclear.  The Bipartisan Policy Center’s National Security Project
called yesterday for providing Israel with 200 GBU-31 bombs and
two or three KC-135 aerial refueling tankers. Israel has a
different variant of the bunker buster and about a dozen aerial
tankers, which would be needed to enable Israeli warplanes to
strike targets in Iran, according to a report by the group.  ‘Pressure on Iran’  “The pressure on Iran to negotiate in good faith will be
maximized to the extent Iran believes that not just the  United
States , but also Israel, is capable of and prepared to deliver a
crippling blow to its nuclear program,” according to the report
from the nonprofit research group led by former Democratic
Senator Charles Robb of  Virginia  and retired General Charles
Wald, a former deputy commander of the U.S. European Command.  To thwart Iran, the group endorsed a “triple-track”
strategy of diplomacy, economic sanctions and “credible,
visible preparations for a military option of last resort.”  While Israel already has about 100 GBU-28 bunker-buster
munitions, the addition of 200 precision-guided GBU-31 bombs  --
which have a Boeing Co. global positioning system tail-kit --
would increase the likelihood that a strike “would score a
direct hit on its target,” the group said.  ‘Credible Israeli Threat’  “While we do not advocate an Israeli military strike, we
believe a more credible Israeli threat can only increase the
pressure on Iran to negotiate,” Wald said in a written
statement.  U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  and other U.S.
officials have repeatedly warned Israel not to take action
against Iran alone.  Alireza Nader, an analyst at the Rand Corp. who was co-
author of a study on Israel and Iran, said sending Israel more
bombs would be a mistake.  “It’s actually counterproductive,” Nader said in an
interview. “It might compel the Iranian government to
accelerate the nuclear program. They see a potential weapons
capability as deterrence against the United State and Israel.”  Nader said diplomacy and sanctions are a wiser course, with
recent sanctions having “raised the cost of weaponization for
the Islamic Republic” as its economy weakens.  Sanctions Bite  Gantz said international sanctions are starting to show
some results. Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  called
Jan. 24 for  China ,  India ,  Japan  and  South Korea  to join in
sanctions aimed at curtailing  Iran’s nuclear program .  “Only a combination of paralyzing sanctions and a credible
threat of ‘all options on the table’ will cause Iran  to have
second thoughts about its nuclear program,” Netanyahu told
parliament in  Jerusalem , according to a text message from his
office.  The National Security Project, while endorsing more
sanctions, expressed skepticism about their effectiveness since
“even new ‘crippling’ sanctions are unlikely to threaten the
viability of the Iranian regime -- the one motivation for Tehran
to negotiate in good faith.”  A more credible military threat from Israel is required
because Iran “could have the capacity to produce enough highly
enriched uranium for a nuclear device in as little as two
months” and “develop nuclear weapons capability” this year,
according to the report.  Timeline Challenged  Daryl Kimball, executive director of the Arms Control
Association in  Washington , disputed the two-month timeline,
saying such estimates were based on incorrect efficiency rates
reported for Iran’s centrifuges.  “That’s just flat-out wrong,” Kimball said in an
interview. “A nuclear-armed Iran is not imminent and it is not
inevitable. These dire warnings are irresponsible and they don’t
align with the best information of the U.S intelligence
community.”  The U.S., its European allies and the International Atomic
Energy Agency have said that while Iran halted its nuclear
weapons program in 2003, there are indications it may still be
trying to move toward a nuclear weapon. They have challenged the
government in Tehran to prove that its nuclear work is intended
only for energy and medical research, as Iranian officials
maintain.  Nuclear talks this week between senior IAEA officials and
members of Iran’s government progressed enough for both sides to
commit to more negotiations, Chief Inspector Herman Nackaerts
told reporters yesterday at Vienna International Airport after
returning from Iran.  “There still is a lot of work to be done and so we have
planned another trip in the very near future,” he said.  Iran’s Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi  called the outcome
of the negotiations “very good,” state-run Fars news agency
reported.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  