-- Italian Government Bond Yields Must Go Down Further, Prime Minister Says
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-02-01T20:41:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/italian-government-bond-yields-must-go-down-further-monti-says.html
Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said
Italian government bond yields must fall further to reduce the
country’s borrowing costs.  The yields “need to go down further than they have already
done,” Monti, 68, said in an interview with the TG5 television
news program on Canale 5. “I expect them to do so.”  Fitch Ratings  and  Standard & Poor’s  last month lowered the
nation’s credit rating. Still, Italian bond yields have fallen
as the  European Central Bank (EURR002W)  offered banks unlimited three-year
loans. The 10-year bond yield narrowed 27 basis points to 5.68
percent today, while the spread over comparable German bunds
fell to as low as 3.82 percentage points, the least since Dec.
8.  Italy may be in its fourth recession in a decade after its
 gross domestic product  contracted in the third quarter of 2011.
On Jan. 24 the  International Monetary Fund  estimated in its
World Economic Outlook Update that the Italy may contract 2.2
percent in 2012 and 0.6 percent in 2013.  Monti also said that he looks forward to leaving the
country in better shape at the end of his government’s term in
the spring of 2013.  Monti’s cabinet passed last month a package of measures
aimed at spurring competition and boosting economic growth by
streamlining the country’s bureaucracy and opening up
professions. In December his government pushed through 20
billion euros ($26 billion) in tax increases and spending cuts
that have further choked growth.  Fiscal Discipline  Italy can cut its ratio of  debt  to GDP to less than 100
percent in 2020 by meeting its goal of eliminating the public
deficit in 2013, Deputy Finance Minister  Vittorio Grilli  said at
a news briefing in Rome earlier today. New European Union rules
will force countries with debt over the limit of 60 percent of
GDP to cut the excess by 1/20th a year, Grilli also said.  The prime minister said state asset sales are not a
priority, though there may be “some room” for them in the
future.  The government estimates a contraction of 0.5 percent in
GDP in 2012 and “flat growth” next year. That forecast doesn’t
take into account the effect of the legislation aimed at
fighting  tax evasion  and boosting growth.  Monti’s economic overhaul will help Italy grow after years
of “virtual stagnation,” Salvatore Rossi, the central bank’s
deputy director general, told lawmakers in  Rome  today, according
to an e-mailed text.  Monti said the support of his predecessor,  Silvio Berlusconi , is “key” for his government. Monti doesn’t take
parliamentary backing for granted, he told, adding the support
of parties besides Berlusconi’s is also important.  Canale 5 is owned by owned by Mediaset SpA, the broadcast
company of Berlusconi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.ne  