-- Italian Banks Gain as Central Bank Set Buybacks Rules in Line With Europe
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2012-02-01T10:35:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/italian-banks-rise-as-bond-buyback-rules-made-more-flexible-milan-mover.html
Italian lenders climbed in Milan,
leading gains in the European Stoxx 600 Banks Index, after the
Bank of  Italy  allowed more flexibility in buying back
subordinated bonds.  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Italy’s biggest bank,  rose  as much as 4.4
percent, and was up 14 cents to 3.93 euros by 11 a.m., giving
the bank a market value of 22.8 billion euros ($30 billion).
 Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , the second-largest lender, increased as
much as 4.8 percent, and was up 5.7 cents to 1.52 euros. The
FTSE Italia All-Share Banks Index gained 4 percent.  The Italian central bank’s new regulations meet European
buyback rules on hybrid securities. Banks won’t have to
simultaneously issue new instruments to replace those being
repurchased and don’t need the approval of Italy’s stock market
regulator, the Bank of Italy said on its website.  The Bank of Italy will authorize banks to buy back
securities that qualify as regulatory capital as long as their
financial position isn’t put at risk, it said.  “Assuming just Tier 1 buybacks, the Italian banks could
generate roughly 25 basis points of capital,” Giovanni Razzoli,
an analyst at Equita SIM SpA, wrote in a note today. “The main
beneficiary would be  Banco Popolare SC (BP) , with a positive impact
of 30 bps,” he said.  Banco Popolare, the best performer on the FTSEMIB index,
rose 7.8 percent to 1.24 euros, while Banca Monte dei Paschi di
Siena gained 7.6 percent to 31 cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net 
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
James Ludden at   jludden@bloomberg.net  