-- Japan’s Nuclear Plant Safety Tests Ignore Lessons of Fukushima
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2012-02-01T03:34:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/japan-s-nuclear-plant-safety-tests-ignore-fukushima-lessons-advisers-say.html
Japan ’s so-called stress tests to
review nuclear plant safety don’t include lessons from the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi disaster, effectively ignoring the reason for
running the checks, two government advisers said.  The stress tests were initiated after the earthquake and
tsunami wrecked the Fukushima plant last March causing radiation
leaks in the worst nuclear disaster since Chernobyl in 1986.  Yet, the checks ignore the potential for two natural
disasters to occur at the same time, which is what happened at
Fukushima, said Masashi Goto, a former atomic plant designer who
is a member of the Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency’s  stress
test  advisory committee. The tests also don’t take into account
the ages of plants, he said.  “The safety review system used before the Fukushima
accident was wrong,” said Hiromitsu Ino, Professor Emeritus at
the  University of Tokyo , who also serves on the committee. “The
same system is being used for the current stress tests without
taking into consideration the causes of the Fukushima
accident.”  The stress tests are computer-simulated disaster scenarios
and don’t include a review of potential human error and multiple
equipment failure, Goto said at a press conference last week.  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s 40-year-old Dai-Ichi station was
hit by three explosions and reactor core meltdowns after the
quake and tsunami damaged power supplies, disabling cooling
systems.  Test Results  Fourteen of Japan’s 54 reactors have submitted test results
to the government, even though a committee charged by the
government to detail the causes of the Fukushima disaster will
publish its report only in July.  NISA, the safety agency, has approved the results for the
first round of stress tests on two reactors at the Ohi nuclear
station owned by  Kansai Electric Power Co. (9503)  The company will need
approval from local citizens and the central government before
it can restart the reactors.  “Stress tests should be undertaken on Dai-Ichi before the
accident to see if they can actually correctly simulate what
happened,” Ino said at the briefing in Tokyo with Goto. “It’s
completely wrong for NISA to approve stress tests before getting
an answer to those kind of questions.”  Tokyo Electric  partly agreed with the recommendation made
by Ino and Goto’s advisory committee by saying it will run a
stress test to simulate a tsunami hitting Dai-Ichi, Ino said.  ‘Doing the Best’  Still, the utility doesn’t plan to run a simulation test
for an earthquake or a combination, and Tokyo Electric’s tsunami
calculation doesn’t consider reactor damage from debris or
explosions of leaked fuel, all of which occurred on March 11,
Goto said.  NISA has no plans to change the way the reviews are being
conducted, Tatsuya Taguchi, a NISA official in charge of nuclear
safety regulatory standards, said by phone on Jan. 27. The
concerns of Ino and Goto have been discussed, Taguchi said.  “We are doing the best we can to reflect reality,”
Taguchi said.  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011) , a maker of nuclear plant
equipment, runs the disaster simulations for the utilities,
which pass the results to NISA, Ino and Goto said. The reports
are reviewed by the Japan Nuclear Energy Safety Organization,
which employs former Mitsubishi Heavy staff, raising a potential
conflict of interest, they said.  Some members of the advisory committee receive research
funding from Mitsubishi Heavy and related companies, Ino and
Goto said. Representatives of communities hosting reactors
haven’t been included in the safety review, they said.  Hideo Ikuno, a spokesman for Mitsubishi Heavy, said on Jan.
27 the company isn’t in a position to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in  Tokyo  at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  