-- Jonathan’s Fortunes Fade as Nigerian Attacks Deepen Disquiet
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-02-02T16:45:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/jonathan-s-fortunes-fade-as-nigerian-boko-haram-killings-deepen-discontent.html
Goodluck Jonathan won  Nigeria ’s
presidency in 2011 pledging to transform the economy of Africa’s
biggest oil producer by cutting waste and wooing investment.
Now, he’s fighting for his political survival.  A week-long general strike last month mobilized millions
against his decision to remove fuel subsidies that cost about $8
billion a year, forcing him into a partial climbdown. That was
followed by a series of attacks by Islamist militants that
killed as many as 256 people in the northern city of Kano.  Less than a year into his first full term, Jonathan is
looking less and less able to deliver what he promised, said
Sebastian Spio-Garbrah, managing director of DaMina Advisors LLP
in  New York . Among those measures: improving regulation of the
oil industry and fighting corruption while attracting foreign
investment to build  power plants , refurbish oil refineries and
fix roads, bridges and railways.  “Jonathan is fighting political battles on all fronts, and
at the moment he seems to be losing all of them,” Spio-Garbrah
said by phone from  Accra , Ghana’s capital.  Jonathan, a 54-year-old southern Christian from the oil-
rich Niger River delta, assumed office when his predecessor
Umaru Yar’Adua, a northern Muslim, died on May 5, 2010. The
following April, he won an election that international and
Nigerian observers said was the fairest since the end of
military rule in 1999.  Different Leader  “We were all very excited because he was different from
leaders in the past, he had a different background, he was
younger; this man could do something,” said Fatima Ali, a 33-
year-old owner of a garment factory in Kano. “Things have gone
from zero to minus 10.”  The attacks by militants loyal to Boko Haram, whose name
means “western education is a sin,” have killed 935 people
since the start of the campaign in 2009, more than a quarter of
them this year, according to New York-based  Human Rights Watch .  Companies are feeling the effects.  PZ Cussons Plc (PZC) , the
Manchester, U.K.-based maker of Imperial Leather soaps, fell 4.8
percent to 296 pence, the lowest close since June 10, 2010, on
Jan. 24. The company had expressed concern over the political
stability of Nigeria, its largest market.  “Continued social instability in the north together with
ongoing fiscal reforms may create further unrest in the balance
of the year,” the company said in a statement.  State of Emergency  Jonathan has declared a state of emergency in parts of the
north and sacked his police chief, Hafiz Ringim, on Jan. 25. He
says the militants pose a worse threat to the West African
nation than did the 1967-1970 Biafra civil war.  “My administration is taking every measure necessary to
speedily tackle this problem,” Jonathan said in a speech to the
Jan. 29-30 African Union summit in  Addis Ababa .  Security forces arrested Boko Haram’s alleged spokesman,
Abu Qaqa, the director of the State Security Service in the
northeastern city of Maiduguri, Ahmed Abdullahi, said yesterday
by phone.  In their latest attack, the group hacked to death with
machetes overnight six people in Maiduguri suspected to be
fellow members, Hassan Mohammed, a spokesman for the army’s
Joint  Task Force  in the region, told reporters today in the
city. Multiple bomb blasts hit Maiduguri in attacks early today,
Victor Ebhaleme, a spokesman for the military task force said by
phone. No casualties were reported from the blasts, he said.  The violence persuaded a New York-based client of DaMina
Advisors to postpone plans to meet senior government officials
to discuss investments, Spio-Garbrah said, declining to name the
business.  Capital Flows Steady  Still, Central Bank Governor Lamido Sanusi said Jan. 31
that there are no signs the security and political concerns have
sparked “any massive movement of capital out of the country.”  Yields on Nigeria’s international dollar bonds due 2021
have fallen 33 basis points, or 0.33 percentage point, this year
to 5.819 percent as of 4:12 p.m. in  London , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The  Nigerian Stock Exchange All-Share
Index (NGSEINDX)  has risen 0.4 percent to 20,822.  The naira has gained 1.1 percent this year to 160.57 per
dollar on the  interbank market , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Security Checks  The effect of the attacks is visible in Abuja, the capital,
where bombings killed 24 people at the United Nations office on
Aug. 26, and 43 more at a nearby church on Christmas Day. Cars
line up outside offices and hotels as army and police officers
search trunks, and pedestrians entering buildings undergo
security checks.  Once a little-known movement inspired by Afghanistan’s
Taliban, Boko Haram exploded onto the scene in 2009 when then-
President Yar’Adua ordered the security forces to disarm the
group. That provoked clashes that killed more than 700 people,
including its leader,  Mohammed Yusuf .  Since then, the group, whose formal name is Jama’atu Ahlus
Sunnah Lidda’awati Wal Jihad, or Congregation of Followers of
the Prophet for the Call to Islam and Religious Struggle, has
attacked police stations, government offices and churches across
the north. It has told Christians to leave the region.  So far the violence in the north hasn’t hurt oil production
or touched Lagos, the commercial capital.  Economic Impact  “In practical terms, it has done little damage to the
country’s commercial base,” said  Samir Gadio , a London-based
emerging markets strategist at Standard Bank Plc.  Nigeria pumped about 2.1 million barrels of oil a day in
January, unchanged from the previous year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. About 90 percent of Nigeria’s crude is
produced by  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , based in The Hague;  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM) ;  San Ramon , California-based  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ; Total SA
and  Eni SpA (ENI)  in joint ventures with the state-owned Nigerian
National Petroleum Corp.  The most serious danger to crude production came during the
Jan. 9-16 strike, when oil workers threatened to shut it down,
and thus choke off almost all of Nigeria’s export income.  Jonathan had argued that by cutting the subsidies and
letting domestic fuel prices rise, the refineries would attract
enough investment so that Nigeria would no longer have to import
about 70 percent of its gasoline and diesel.  The decision more than doubled prices at the pump and
sparked outrage among Nigeria’s 164 million people, 64 percent
of whom live on less than $1.25 a day, according to the UN.  Jonathan’s Support Declines  The lower house of the National Assembly voted that he
reinstate the subsidy and civil-society groups that once
supported Jonathan deserted him, especially after he deployed
army troops to quell the protests. At least eight people died in
the demonstrations.  “The more he loses public support by pursuing unpopular
policies or not acting on issues he should be tackling, the more
his ability to get the legislature to give him support for his
agenda will be weakened,” said Clement Nwankwo, executive
director of the Abuja-based  Policy and Legal Advocacy Centre .  The strike ended after Jonathan agreed to limit gasoline-
price increases to 97 naira (60 cents) a liter (0.26 gallon). It
cost sub-Saharan  Africa ’s second-largest economy more than $1
billion, according to the National Bureau of Statistics.  While gross domestic product is expected to expand 6.6
percent this year from an estimated 6.9 percent in 2011,
according to the  International Monetary Fund , Nigerians believe
corruption and waste will sap the benefit of growth, said Ashley
Elliot, a Nigeria analyst at Control Risks in London.  ‘Popular Anger’  “Tensions on the narrow issue of fuel subsidies have
unleashed broader popular anger over corruption and
inequality,” Elliot said. “After decades of shattered
promises, today’s generation have difficulty believing in the
Nigerian state as an agent of development.”  Activists copied the tactics of protesters in the Arab
world and on  Wall Street , using social media such as Facebook
and Twitter to organize an  Occupy Nigeria  movement.  “Nigeria is never going to be the same again,” factory
owner Ali said. “I grew up with no power, the security
challenges in our country, corruption every day. A lot of us
have been talking for a while and we’re all really tired with
the issues our country is facing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  