-- Kampeter Sees Bank Regulators Accepting Commerzbank Capital Plan
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   S a r a   E i s e n
-- 2012-02-01T11:11:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/kampeter-sees-bank-regulators-accepting-commerzbank-capital-plan.html
German Deputy Finance Minister
Steffen Kampeter said he’s confident that the European Banking
Authority will accept  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ’s recapitalization plan
that foresees no government aid.  “I have no doubt” that the EBA will approve the plan,
Kampeter said in a New York interview with Bloomberg Television
broadcast today. “It’s not my decision, it’s the EBA’s
decision, but I don’t have any signs that are to the contrary.”  Commerzbank Chief Executive Officer  Martin Blessing  said
Jan. 19 that asset sales, retained earnings and  capital
management  fulfilled 57 percent of 5.3 billion-euro ($7 billion)
target by the end of 2011. European leaders are demanding banks
increase reserves to bolster confidence after investors agreed
to accept losses on Greek  government bonds .  The Frankfurt-base bank said it can strengthen capital by
6.3 billion euros by raising funds and reducing risk-weighted
assets by June 30. That’s more than the 5.3 billion-euro
shortfall the EBA told the lender to plug.  Blessing has made “an impressive plan and they achieved a
lot of it, actually, now, and they will need to my perception no
capital injection by the taxpayer,” Kampeter said in the
interview, which was conducted yesterday.  Germany ’s banking system has “some capital needs,” stress
tests have shown, “but every bank will fulfill it and we will
even fulfill the enhanced  capital requirements ” by the EBA,
Kampeter said.  The deputy minister also said that more mergers between the
so-called Landesbanks are possible and that further steps should
be taken after Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen’s decision to buy
business from  WestLB AG (WESTLB) .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Eisen in New York at 
 seisen2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  