-- Kenya Rejects Call for Cheaper Credit as Uganda Moves on Rates
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-02-01T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/kenya-rejects-call-for-cheaper-credit-as-uganda-moves-on-rates.html
Kenya ’s central bank rejected demands
from borrowers to follow neighboring  Uganda  in lowering interest
rates from a record high, threatening to undermine growth in
East Africa’s largest economy.  Kenya’s Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor Njuguna Ndung’u, left the key  lending rate  unchanged for a second month
at 18 percent, it said in an e-mailed statement yesterday from
the capital, Nairobi. Uganda’s central bank lowered its policy
rate for the first time since it was introduced in July, cutting
it by 1 percentage point to 22 percent.  “Investors are complaining about high interest rates at
the moment but I suspect that will become a shriek soon,” Aly- Khan Satchu, chief executive officer of Nairobi-based  investment
company , Rich Management, said in a phone interview. “It’s a
certainty that the real economy will slow down.”  Policy makers in Uganda and Kenya have struggled to combat
inflation after the worst regional drought in 60 years boosted
food prices in both nations and their currencies slumped.
Uganda’s central bank pushed up borrowing costs by 10 percentage
points in four meetings, beginning in August. Kenya raised its
key rate by 12.25 points in six meetings.  Kenya’s government estimates the economy will expand 5.3
percent this year, down from a previous estimate of 5.7 percent.  ‘Kenyans Are Fed Up’  The MPC needs to “ensure that inflation declines to levels
consistent with the government’s target,” Ndung’u said in the
statement yesterday.  Inflation (KNPRIYY)  slowed for a second month to 18.3
percent in January, compared with the government’s goal of below
10 percent within a year.  “Kenyans are fed up with these high loan rates because
it’s an important link for them to get capital for a business,
and to stop living hand to mouth,” Stephen Mutoro, secretary-
general of the Consumers Federation of Kenya, said in a phone
interview from Nairobi yesterday. “This recent fluctuation has
gone too high, too fast.”  Lawmakers in Kenya are studying proposed legislation that
would cap commercial banks’  interest rates  on loans at 4
percentage points above the central bank’s rate. Lenders,
including  Equity Bank Ltd. (EQBNK) , have raised their base lending rates
to as high as 25 percent.  In Uganda, where inflation slowed for a third month to 25.7
percent in January, higher interest rates have also taken their
toll. Shop owners in Kampala closed their stores for four days
last month to protest against soaring commercial bank rates of
as high as 35 percent. They ended the strike after President
 Yoweri Museveni  asked the central bank governor to study
commercial bank interest rates.  ‘Positive Results’  “The Bank of Uganda is determined to bring down inflation
sharply and to stabilize it around the policy target of 5
percent in the medium term,” Governor Emmanuel Tumusiime- Mutebile said. “The increase in interest rates implemented by
the Bank of Uganda since the middle of last year has already
yielded positive results.”  Higher interest rates in both nations helped to boost their
currencies by a fifth since the beginning of October. Uganda’s
shilling weakened 1.8 percent to 2,361.50 per dollar late
yesterday in Kampala, while Kenya’s currency slipped 0.3 percent
to 83.63 against the dollar.  Central bank governors from the five-nation  East African
Community  of Kenya,  Tanzania , Uganda,  Rwanda  and Burundi agreed
in October to coordinate policy actions to fight rising prices
and currency volatility.  Economic growth in  East Africa  probably slowed to 5.1
percent last year from 5.9 percent in 2010 as the European debt
crisis worsened, according to the East African Community, the
regional trade bloc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  