-- Kenya’s Shilling Gains for Seventh Day as Central Bank Meets
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2012-02-01T11:14:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/kenya-s-shilling-gains-for-seventh-day-as-central-bank-meets.html
Kenya’s shilling strengthened for a
seventh day, the longest winning streak in 18 months, as the
country’s central bank monetary policy committee is expected to
hold the  interest rate  at a meeting today and inflation dropped.  The currency of  East Africa ’s biggest economy appreciated
as much as 0.7 percent and was trading 0.3 percent stronger at
83.60 per dollar at 1:55 p.m. in the capital Nairobi. This is
the longest series of gains since Aug. 3, 2010.  “The shilling is gaining following the drop in inflation
and on expectation that the monetary policy committee will
retain the rates at current levels,” Duncan Kinuthia, a dealer
at Nairobi-based Commercial Bank of Africa Ltd., said in a phone
interview.  Kenya’s  inflation rate  fell for a second month to 18.3
percent in January from 18.9 percent in December, the Nairobi-
based  Kenya  National Bureau of Statistics said yesterday in an
e-mailed statement.  The central bank will probably keep its benchmark  lending
rate  unchanged at 18 percent for a second month, according to
all five economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The bank, based in
the capital, Nairobi, will announce its decision in an e-mailed
statement today.  Tanzania’s shilling strengthened for the first time in four
days, on increased dollar inflows from the agricultural industry
and low dollar demand. The currency of the second-biggest
economy in East Africa appreciated as much as 0.8 percent and
was trading 0.2 percent stronger at 1,596 at 1:43 p.m.  “We have had inflows from corporate and public sector
clients seeking shillings to meet month-end obligations,,” Alex
Ngurusu, head treasurer of CRDB Bank Plc, said by phone today
from  Dar es Salaam , the commercial capital.  Uganda ’s shilling depreciated, snapping a three day rally.
The currency weakened as much as 1 percent and traded 0.7
percent lower at 2,335 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  