-- Kenya’s Shilling Gains Seventh Day; Central Bank Holds Rates
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2012-02-01T14:52:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/kenya-s-shilling-gains-seventh-day-central-bank-holds-rates.html
Kenya ’s shilling strengthened for a
seventh day, the longest winning streak in 18 months, as
inflation dropped and the central bank kept rates on hold.  The currency of East Africa’s biggest economy appreciated
as much as 0.7 percent and was trading 0.3 percent stronger at
83.63 per dollar at 5:31 p.m. in the capital Nairobi, headed for
the longest series of gains since August 2010.  Kenya’s  inflation rate  fell for a second month to 18.3
percent in January from 18.9 percent in December, the Nairobi-
based Kenya National Bureau of Statistics said yesterday in an
e-mailed statement. The central bank left the key lending rate
at a record high for a second month to support the shilling and
ensure consumer prices continue declining.  “The shilling is gaining following the drop in
inflation,” Duncan Kinuthia, a dealer at Nairobi-based
Commercial Bank of Africa Ltd., said in a phone interview.  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor Njuguna Ndung’u, kept the benchmark  interest rate  at 18 percent,
according to an e-mailed statement from the Nairobi-based
Central Bank of Kenya.  Tanzania’s shilling strengthened on increased U.S. currency
inflows from the agricultural industry and low demand for the
dollar. The currency of the second-biggest economy in  East
Africa  appreciated as much as 0.8 percent and traded 0.4 percent
stronger at 1,592 at 5:39 p.m. in  Dar es Salaam , the commercial
capital.  “We have had inflows from corporate and public sector
clients seeking shillings to meet month-end obligations,” Alex
Ngurusu, head treasurer of CRDB Bank Plc, said by phone today.  Uganda ’s shilling depreciated, snapping a three day rally.
The currency weakened 0.9 percent at 2,340 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  