-- N.J. Lawmaker Kyrillos Announces Plans to Run Against Menendez for Senate
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-02-01T19:19:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/n-j-lawmaker-kyrillos-announces-plans-to-run-against-menendez-for-senate.html
Joseph Kyrillos, a Republican  New
Jersey  lawmaker who ran Governor  Chris Christie ’s election
campaign, said he’d vote to repeal the federal health-care act
and cut spending as he began his bid for  U.S. Senate .  Kyrillos, 51, seeks to challenge Democratic incumbent
 Robert Menendez , who had $6.9 million in his campaign fund as of
Sept. 30, according to Federal Election Commission data. A New
Jersey Republican hasn’t won a U.S. Senate seat since 1972, the
last victory for four-term incumbent Clifford P. Case.  “Washington is failing us,” Kyrillos said during his
announcement speech in Lincroft. “Bob Menendez made things
worse, yet he wants six more years to do more of the same. New
Jersey taxpayers -- our children, our grandchildren, our
families -- can’t afford six more years of Bob Menendez.”  Christie was the first Republican to win statewide election
in 12 years in New Jersey, where Democrats hold an edge of
almost 700,000 registered voters. Kyrillos was chairman of
Christie’s 2009 campaign and a member of his transition team.  Kyrillos kicked off his Senate race at the Lincroft Inn
with more than 100 supporters, including Christie’s father,
Bill, who sat with the Kyrillos family at the front of the
crowd. The candidate, who called the governor a friend and an
ally, downplayed the role Christie would have in the race,
saying he would run his own campaign outside of the governor’s
shadow.  Role Model  “This is a race that I’m running -- the governor has
enough to do running this state and doing all of the assorted
chores that he has along the way,” Kyrillos said. “Naturally,
he’s been a role model not only for me but for people all around
the country to show that you can get things in order and put
things back on track.”  Christie, who defeated one-term Democrat  Jon Corzine  in
2009 after pledging to fix state finances without raising taxes,
has said New Jersey is starting to shake off the lingering
effects of the recession that began in December 2007. Kyrillos
cited that perceived success and the pension and benefits
overhaul spearheaded by Christie last year as examples of places
where he and his party have prevailed.  Kyrillos represents New Jersey’s 13th legislative district,
which includes part of Monmouth County, and lives in  Middletown (14393MF) .
He was elected at the age of 27 to the Assembly, where he served
two terms before he was voted into the Senate in 1991. Democrats
hold majorities in both legislative chambers.  Pension Deficit  Kyrillos said he voted for a $2.8 billion pension bond that
former Republican Governor Christine Whitman used in 1997 to
pare a gap in the fund, which provides retirement benefits to
teachers and government workers. As stocks sank in 2001, the
payment on the bonds became larger than returns, and Whitman and
successors began skipping contributions.  New Jersey’s pension deficit was $41.8 billion as of June,
according to the state treasury. Republicans were on a path
toward fixing the system prior to Democrats winning control of
the Legislature in the last decade, Kyrillos said. The deficit
grew as Republicans were out of power, and the recent fixes are
the types of steps that need to be taken in  Washington , he said.  Kyrillos was chairman of the New Jersey Republican State
Committee from 2001-2004 and was New Jersey Chairman of Mitt Romney’s 2008 presidential campaign. If elected to the Senate,
Kyrillos said he would vote to repeal President  Barack Obama ’s
health-care law, support a balanced federal budget amendment,
and would seek to cut spending and limit taxes.  ‘Trenton insider’  Menendez, 58, in a statement issued by his campaign, said
his adversary voted against a tax on millionaires and funding
for stem-cell research, and called him a “20-year Trenton
insider.”  “Senator Menendez is proud to run on his record of working
to restore financial security for New Jersey’s middle-class
families, helping protect and create thousands of New Jersey
jobs and taking on powerful special interests,” the campaign
said in the statement. “The contrast is stark.”  Republicans aren’t likely to mount a sustained push for New
Jersey in this year’s presidential election, Ben Dworkin,
director of the Rebovich Institute of New Jersey Politics at
 Rider University  in Lawrenceville, said in a telephone
interview. As a result, Kyrillos may find himself deprived of
any coattails from the top of the ticket, Dworkin said.  “We can expect a very strong turnout from the heavily
Democratic urban areas, and I wouldn’t expect in the end any
major Republican play for New Jersey,” Dworkin said. “You’ll
see heavy Democratic turnout and that will favor Menendez.”  Menendez defeated Kyrillos, 43 percent to 31 percent, in a
hypothetical matchup, according to Fairleigh Dickinson
University’s PublicMind survey in Madison, New Jersey. Their
Jan. 31  poll  of 800 registered voters from Jan. 2-8 has a margin
of error of plus or minus 3.5 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  