-- Nampak Plans to Double Africa Earnings This Year, CEO Says
-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a   a n d   T s h e p i s o   M o k h e m a
-- 2012-02-01T14:29:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/nampak-plans-to-double-africa-earnings-this-year-ceo-says-1-.html
Nampak Ltd. (NPK) , a South African
packaging company, plans to double earnings from businesses
elsewhere on the continent to 16 percent of the total this
fiscal year, Chief Executive Officer Andrew Marshall said.  “We will perhaps double profits from  Africa  by the end of
this financial year,” said Marshall in an interview in
Johannesburg today.  The company, which has operations in  12 other African
countries  as well as the U.K., is working on projects across the
continent, and may enter new markets, Marshall said. He would
not identify the projects or the countries as negotiations have
not yet been concluded.  “Those projects will help increase earnings and sales to
25 percent of the group in four years’ time,” Marshall said.
The maker of packaging materials from beverage cans to cement
packets said it is waiting for the  Angolan  government to
introduce laws that subject finished products entering the
nation to import duties before it commits more funds in the oil-
producing nation.  “We will then invest in two beverage-related plants
totaling over $100 million,” said Marshall. The government had
also promised to reverse  consumption tax  on packaging products
manufactured inside the country, he said.  Angolan Plant  The company’s sole manufacturing plant in the oil-producing
southern African country started operations in April 2011. It
was built at a cost of $152 million, Nampak said in its annual
report.  Angola ’s government already committed to pass laws that
will make imports more expensive by charging duties on finished
packaging products made in the country.  “We were expecting the issues to be resolved this January.
We continue to wait and hope it will be resolved soon,” said
Marshall. If the new investments go ahead, Marshall said his
company would employ about 200 more Angolans.  Nampak increased revenue from the rest of Africa to 1.3
billion rand ($170 million) in the year through September from
1.2 billion rand a year earlier. Total revenue was little
changed at 15.8 billion rand, with sales in  South Africa , the
company’s biggest market, falling to 13 billion rand from 13.3
billion rand.  Nampak’s Nigerian unit has won a contract to provide
 Nigeria Breweries Plc (NB) , a brewer controlled by  Heineken NV (HEIA) , with
labels for  beer bottles , Marshall said.  “We are currently supplying labels for 20 percent of their
volume,” he said. Nampak is in talks with the brewer to
increase the labels it provides to 40 percent of Nigeria
Breweries’ total volume, he said. “We hope to invest in more
capacity as soon as the company gives us a long-term contract,”
said Marshall.  To contact the reporters on this story: Sikonathi Mantshantsha
and Tshepiso Mokhema in Johannesburg at and +27-
   smantshantsh@bloomberg.net  and
 tmokhema@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  