-- Nasdaq OMX Earnings Beat Estimates on Revenue, Buybacks
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2012-02-01T23:24:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/nasdaq-omx-quarterly-earnings-beat-estimates-as-revenue-rises.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , the second-
largest U.S. equity exchange operator, posted fourth-quarter
earnings that beat analyst estimates as revenue climbed and the
company bought back $100 million in shares.  Earnings were 63 cents a share excluding some items such as
debt refinancing and a charge for an investment in Dubai
Financial Market, exceeding the 61-cent  average estimate  of 19
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, the New York-based company said
in a statement today. Revenue excluding rebates, clearing and
other fees rose 5.5 percent to $422 million, while net income
according to generally accepted accounting principles fell 40
percent to $81 million.  Nasdaq OMX’s shares have beaten NYSE Euronext’s since the
owner of the New York Stock Exchange announced a year ago that
it would merge with  Deutsche Boerse AG. (DB1)  The European Commission
blocked the NYSE- Deutsche Boerse  deal today, after NYSE stock
retreated 21 percent since the companies disclosed their talks.
Nasdaq OMX had fallen 4.2 percent since Feb. 8, 2011.  “We continue to like this story given the company’s
balanced top-line growth, lower relative leverage to transaction
volumes moving forward, and potential earnings support from the
share buyback,”  Chris Allen , a New York-based analyst with
Evercore Partners LP, wrote in a note today.  The  stock  advanced less than 0.1 percent to $24.77 today.
The shares advanced 5.9 percent during the October-to-December
quarter, compared with a 4.3 percent rally for the Bloomberg
World Exchanges Index of 25 companies worldwide.  Stock Buybacks  Nasdaq OMX spent about $100 million to buy back 3.98
million shares at an average price of $25.10, according to
today’s release. The company plans to finish the remainder of
its $300 million repurchase plan this year and will begin
considering a dividend toward the end of it, Greifeld said on a
conference call today.  Total operating expenses in 2012 will be $955 million to
$985 million, including one-time new initiative spending, Nasdaq
OMX said today.  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , the largest U.S. exchange operator, is
scheduled to issue its fourth-quarter report on Feb. 10. The
average analyst projection is for 50 cents a share in profit,
compared with 46 cents in the year-earlier period, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Deutsche Boerse AG, based in
 Frankfurt , will post quarterly  earnings  on Feb. 13.  European Veto  European regulators today vetoed NYSE Euronext’s plan to
merge with Deutsche Boerse after concluding that the proposal,
which would create the world’s largest exchange, would hurt
competition. The deal would have put 90 percent of  Europe ’s
exchange-traded derivatives in the hands of one company. Nasdaq
OMX joined with  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  in April to make a
hostile bid for NYSE Euronext. U.S. regulators rejected the
deal, citing antitrust concerns over the listings businesses.  The rejections won’t prevent more mergers among exchange
companies, Greifeld said today, adding that Nasdaq OMX is more
focused on organic growth and smaller, “bolt-on” acquisitions.  “We do not believe that this ruling will preclude other
large exchange deals from happening,” he said on a call. “Our
rejection by the DOJ and today’s rejection by the EU competition
committee certainly send a clear message that transactions that
result in over 90 percent market share in a predefined market is
highly suspect, but there is a compelling industrial logic of
combining operations and technology of non-overlapping
exchanges, and that will happen in the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 