-- Navistar Faces EPA Fines of Up To $2,000 Per Heavy-Duty Engine
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2012-02-01T05:25:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/navistar-faces-epa-fines-of-up-to-2-000-per-heavy-duty-engine.html
Navistar International Corp. (NAV) , the
maker of International brand trucks, faces fines of as much as
$2,000 for each of its heavy-duty engines because they don’t
meet pollution standards, according to a federal  regulation .  The Environmental Protection Agency issued an emergency
rule yesterday on fines for truck-engine makers that don’t meet
federal nitrogen oxides standards, without naming the company.
Transport Topics reported that the regulation applied to
Navistar.  “These penalties allow a manufacturer to produce and sell
nonconforming engines upon payment of a penalty,” the EPA said
in its regulation published on its Web site. One company was set
to run out of pollution credits during this model year,
according to the EPA. Credits allow it to sell engines that
don’t meet federal standards, the agency said.  Navistar must pay a sliding scale of fines on its heavy-
duty engines that can reach almost $2,000, according to a chart
included in the rule. Its medium heavy-duty engines face fines
of up to almost $700 each. The EPA didn’t provide the exact
level of the maximum fine in its synopsis.  Navistar “expects to comply soon” with federal standards,
spokesman Jim Spangler said in an interview. He declined to
comment on whether the company may have to pay fines or how many
credits are left.  Navistar chose to meet tightening federal standards with
exhaust gas recirculation, and its sales have suffered.
Competitors including  Volvo AB (VOLVB)  and  Daimler AG (DAI)  have adopted
selective catalyst reduction technology.  Oxides of nitrogen exacerbate breathing and asthma
problems, and can lead to the formation of ozone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  