-- NBC Channels Marilyn Monroe in Super Bowl Ads to Aid Network
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-02-01T14:44:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/nbc-channels-marilyn-monroe-in-super-bowl-ads-to-lift-network.html
Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC, the last-place
network for seven straight years, will use this weekend’s Super
Bowl broadcast to promote a prime-time lineup being remade by
entertainment chief Bob Greenblatt.  The NFL championship match between the  New York Giants  and
 New England Patriots  will draw as many as 115 million viewers on
Feb. 5 -- potentially the largest U.S. television audience in
history, according to Brad Adgate, head of research at New York-
based Horizon Media Inc.  The game, and the  Summer Olympics  in July, give NBC the
chance to promote shows like the returning talent competition
“The Voice” and “Smash,” a new musical drama about actresses
vying to play  Marilyn Monroe  on Broadway, to huge audiences. The
network hasn’t had both marquee sporting events since 1996, when
NBC was No. 1 with its Must-See TV lineup of “Seinfeld” and
“Friends.”  “Expect to see NBC shows pushed all the way through the
game,”  John Miller , chief marketing officer of  NBC Universal 
television, said in a phone interview.  Viewers will see 20 minutes of NBC promos before, during
and after the  Super Bowl , according to Chris McCloskey, a
spokesman for the sports division. A 30-second ad during the
game costs an average of $3.5 million, and up to $4 million.  Networks that carry the Super Bowl typically reserve air
time to promote their shows. Last year, Fox used $76 million of
ad time to promote shows such as “Glee,” researcher Kantar
Media estimated. CBS used $57 million of ad time in 2010.  Comcast rose 1.8 percent to $27.06 at 9:42 a.m. New York
time. Shares are up 12 percent this year before today.  ‘What You’ve Got’  The stakes are higher with NBC, which groped through
management changes and programming fumbles under  General
Electric Co. (GE) , like shifting  Jay Leno  to prime time. NBC
Universal was sold to Philadelphia-based Comcast, the largest
U.S. cable system, in January 2011.  “The worse ratings shape you’re in, the greater the
importance of the major event,” said Chris Geraci, president of
national broadcast at OMD, a unit of ad agency  Omnicom Group
Inc. (OMC)  unit with clients including  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  “Whether or not
you’re making money on it, you’re at least capturing an audience
that you’re normally failing to get your hands on. That’s why
it’s so important to let them know what you’ve got.”  Greenblatt, who started one year ago, has shuffled
production management and added shows including “Up All
Night,” “Whitney” and the canceled “The Playboy Club.”  The schedule has been a disappointment, with the exception
of Sunday night football, the most-watched program since the
season began in September. Total viewers are down 6.7 percent
through Jan. 29, according to data from Nielsen, which tracks
audiences. Among 18-to-49-year-olds, the group advertisers
target, NBC is off 9.8 percent. On an average night leader  CBS (CBS) 
has 12.1 million viewers while has NBC 7.33 million.  Lowered Bar  The network needs four or five strong, long-running
programs to significantly improve ratings, Greenblatt told TV
critics last month.  NBC Universal paid $4.38 billion in June to keep U.S.
Olympics rights until 2020 and re-upped with the NFL until 2022
for undisclosed terms.  The network will generate $250 million to $300 million in
ad revenue for this year’s Super Bowl, Miller said -- a record
according to Seth Winter, senior vice president of sales and
marketing at NBC Sports.  Marilyn Monroe  “Smash,” starring Debra Messing and former “American
Idol” contestant Katharine McPhee, centers on a Broadway
musical about the life of Monroe. It makes its debut on Feb. 6.
Viewers will also see promos for NBC’s new shows, which include
“The Firm,” loosely based on the John Grisham novel, and “Are
You There, Chelsea?” featuring Chelsea Handler.  “The Voice,” a singing competition with judges Cee Lo Green,  Christina Aguilera , Blake Shelton and Adam Levine, will
air immediately after the Super Bowl to kick off its second
season.  The network will promote the 2012-2013 season during the
Olympics, which take place after NBC previews its lineup at the
annual “upfront” presentations to advertisers.  “Beautiful People,” “The Munsters,” “Isabel,” “Save
Me” and a program with comedian Sarah Silverman are possible
new additions for fall, Greenblatt said last month.  Investors may be sensitive to spending on new shows, said
 Jason Armstrong , an analyst with  Goldman Sachs & Co.  in  New
York . Comcast fell 2.4 percent in May when the company said it
would invest an added $300 million on NBC programming.  The most-watched U.S. TV event ever was last year’s Super
Bowl duel won by the Green Bay Packers 31-25 over the Pittsburgh
Steelers. The game drew an audience of 111 million.  More viewers will stick around for “The Voice” and “Late
Night With  Jimmy Fallon ” if the score is close, Miller said.  “Every bit of time is valuable for us,” Miller said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  