-- New York Giants Kicker Lawrence Tynes Blocks Crowd Noise to Hear Neighbors
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-02-01T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/new-york-giants-kicker-lawrence-tynes-blocks-crowd-noise-to-hear-neighbors.html
Lawrence Tynes  wears earplugs to
block crowd noise when he attempts field goals and extra points
for the  New York Giants . What he heard in a deli two days after
kicking his team into the Super Bowl for the second time in four
years came through loud and clear.  Tynes, a native of  Scotland  whose 6-foot-1, 194-pound frame
doesn’t match that of most National Football League players, and
his wife, Amanda, were eating breakfast in Oakland,  New Jersey ,
on Jan. 24 as diners a few feet away discussed the Giants’
championship chances.  Some complained that the game against the  New England
Patriots  on Feb. 5 will be indoors at Lucas Oil Stadium in
Indianapolis, and the players wouldn’t have to worry about bad
weather.  “I wanted to say, ‘Are you kidding me?’” Tynes said in an
interview at the Giants’ practice facility in  East Rutherford ,
New Jersey, last week. “But I enjoy the fans’ perspective.
They’re the ones who pay the bills, and it’s cool to hear
that.”  Anonymity is more a product of position than success for
NFL kickers such as Tynes and Stephen Gostkowski of the
Patriots.  When Tynes booted a 31-yard field goal to give the Giants a
20-17 victory against the  San Francisco 49ers  for a  Super Bowl 
berth, he became the first kicker to end two overtime playoff
victories. Four years earlier, his 47-yarder in Green Bay in the
extra period sent New York to its last Super Bowl, where they
beat the Patriots 17-14.  Tynes also has converted nine of his past 10 fourth-quarter
field-goal attempts.  High Pressure  Though not as frequently used or well-paid as their
teammates -- kickers had the second-lowest average salary by
position, according to the NFL Players Association -- they often
enter the spotlight during high-pressure situations.  “It’s either an ‘A’ or an ‘F,’” Tynes said. “Either you
made it or you didn’t, there’s no almost.”  Giants defensive end  Justin Tuck  jokingly called Tynes
“kind of arrogant,” and said the team has fed off his
confidence.  “You have to bring a bit of edge to this position,” said
Tynes, 33. “I want the guys to have all the faith in the world
in me when I step onto that field.”  Kickers and punters made an average of $1.69 million last
year, the second lowest of all positions, according to midseason
numbers from the NFL  Players Association . Tight ends made $1.66
million. Quarterbacks such as the Giants’ Eli Manning and the
Patriots’  Tom Brady  had the highest average at $4.51 million.  Super Salaries  Tynes made $1.2 million and Gostkowski $1.7 million,
respectively, according to the NFLPA database.  “I’m not putting my limbs on the line every snap like
these guys,” Tynes said. “We get paid enough for what we do.”  Gostkowski, who has spent his whole six-year career in  New
England , was 32 of 37 on field-goal attempts this year, and 10
of 13 from 40 yards or longer.  The 28-year-old is one of the NFL’s best at controlling
field position through his kickoffs, according to Aaron Schatz,
editor-in-chief of  FootballOutsiders.com . In a Jan. 1 game
against Buffalo, Gostkowski kept the Bills’ offense to an
average starting field position at their own 19 yard line
following nine kickoffs.  “He was putting them in the corners, he was putting them
deep,” Bills kickoff returner Justin Rogers said after the
loss. “I didn’t have much of a chance.”  Special Teams  Football Outsiders combines advanced offensive, defensive
and special teams metrics into one measure of  team efficiency .
Schatz said that the kick and punt teams are about a third as
important as the offense and defense.  “The discrepancy is smaller because there are fewer
special-teams plays,” Schatz said in a telephone interview.  Postseason failure can halt a kicker’s career. Mike Vanderjagt’s eight years with the  Indianapolis Colts  ended after
the Pro Bowl kicker missed a 46-yard attempt with 18 seconds
remaining in a 2006 playoff loss.  Scott Norwood, whose 47-yard miss to the right in the 1991
Super Bowl gave the Giants a 20-19 victory against Buffalo, had
never converted a kick of that distance on grass. He was waived
the following year and never played again in the NFL.  Tynes said he wouldn’t be wearing a Giants jersey today had
he missed the 2008 kick in  Green Bay . He said his success in big
games is based on preparation.  “You just create a habit out of doing it the right way,”
he said. “The only thing I have to rely on is my routine.”  Practice Session  Tynes estimates that he’s kicked more than 4,000 balls in
practice this season. His typical training session begins with
12-15 kickoffs, followed by a stretching session, then roughly
25 kicks with long snapper Zak DeOssie and holder Steve Weatherford. He finishes practice with team drills, kicking
field goals in game-like situations.  “Their work ethic is tremendous, they’re always staying
out extra,” Tuck said. “Most times you’ll see kickers, they’ll
kick the first part of practice, and go in and be done with
it.”  Tynes’s latest game-winner came on a rain-soaked grass
field at  Candlestick Park . He and Gostkowski welcome the
Indianapolis roof.  “In New England, we get awful weather and it’s cold,”
Gostkowski told reporters yesterday. “It’s nice to not have to
bundle up to play.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  