-- New York, Chicago Law Schools Among Group Sued by Graduates Over Job Data
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-02-02T00:20:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/new-york-chicago-law-schools-among-group-sued-by-graduates-over-job-data.html
John Marshall Law School in  Chicago 
and the Maurice A. Deane School of Law at Hofstra University
were among a group of law schools sued over claims they
misrepresented employment data, leaving graduates with mounting
debt and limited job prospects.  The schools sued today include  Brooklyn Law School (78472MF)  and
Albany Law School of Union University in  New York  and the  DePaul
University  law school and the Chicago-Kent College of Law at the
Illinois Institute of Technology. Still more cases were brought
in state courts in  California  and  Florida  and in federal court
in  New Jersey , plaintiffs’ attorneys have said. Those filings
couldn’t immediately be confirmed.  “We believe that some in the legal academy have done a
disservice to the profession and the nation by saddling tens of
thousands of young lawyers with massive debt for a degree worth
far less than advertised,” David Anziska, an attorney for the
plaintiffs, said in a statement.  Law schools are facing increasing pressure as graduates
struggle to find work at firms recovering from the recession.
About 15 law schools nationwide have been sued by more than 73
law school graduates over allegations the schools falsely
inflated graduate employment rates and salary statistics to
recruit and retain students, the lawyers said.  Last year, the  American Bar Association  adopted two
resolutions asking for more assistance for  student loans  and
urging schools to provide more detailed employment data.  Reporting Guidelines  Albany Law School and Hofstra said in statements that they
stand by their job-placement statistics, which adhere to
reporting guidelines set by the American Bar Association and the
National Association for Law Placement. Both schools declined to
comment on the specific lawsuits.  “We have documentation that supports the accuracy of our
data,” Connie Mayer, Albany’s interim president and dean, said
in an e-mailed statement. “Students are well aware of the
realities of today’s economy and we believe the information we
provide during the admission process does not mislead our
applicants.”  Bethany Blankley, a spokeswoman for  Brooklyn  Law and
Marilyn Thomas, a spokeswoman for  John Marshall , didn’t
immediately return phone and e-mail messages seeking comment.  ‘Enron-Style’ Accounting  The DePaul complaint, filed at the Cook County Circuit
Court in Chicago, accuses the law school of engaging in “Enron-
style” accounting techniques to manipulate its employment
statistics.  Enron Corp., a Houston-based energy trading company,
collapsed in an accounting scandal almost 10 years ago.  “Far from giving their graduates ‘a competitive edge,’ and
placing them in good, secure, well-paying jobs,” its eight
suing former students alleged, “DePaul consigns the majority of
them to years of indentured servitude, saddling them with tens
of thousands of dollars in crushing, non-dischargeable debt that
will literally take decades to pay off.”  Similar allegations were lodged by the four students who
filed suit against the Chicago-Kent College of Law.  Robin Florzak, a spokeswoman for DePaul, declined to
comment on the allegations, saying school officials hadn’t yet
received the complaint. Susan O’Brien, a spokeswoman for the
Chicago-Kent law school, also declined to comment.  Group Status  Claiming violation of  Illinois  consumer fraud laws,
students from the two Chicago schools are seeking certification
of their ability to sue as a group, plus an award of unspecified
compensatory and punitive damages.  The New York cases are Austin v. Albany Law School of Union
University, A00014/2012, New York state  Supreme Court , Albany
County (Albany); Bevelacqua v. Brooklyn Law School,  New York
state Supreme Court, Kings County (Brooklyn); Richins v. Hofstra
University, New York state Supreme Court, Nassau County
(Mineola). The Chicago cases are Johnson v. The John Marshall
Law School, 12CH03494; Phillips v. DePaul University, 11CH03523;
and Evans v. Illinois Institute of Technology, 11CH03522, in the
Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois,  Chancery Division 
(Chicago).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  