-- Bloomberg Joins Menino for Super Bowl TV Commercial Opposing Illegal Guns
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-02-01T19:14:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/new-york-s-bloomberg-joins-boston-s-menino-for-super-bowl-ad-against-guns.html
Mayors  Michael Bloomberg  of New York
and Thomas Menino of Boston, whose football teams play in the
Super Bowl Feb. 5, will appear in a television commercial during
the game to call for a crackdown on illegal gun sales.  The two city chief executives are co-chairmen of  Mayors
Against Illegal Guns , a coalition of more than 600 they founded
in 2006. They will dress in the jerseys of the National Football
League’s New York Giants and  New England Patriots  and play on
the regional sports rivalry, spokesmen for the two mayors said.  “There’s not much opportunity to have fun with a topic
like this, so with the two teams competing against each other,
the mayors, as founders of the coalition, thought they would
take advantage of the large audience to get their message
across,” said John Guilfoil, a spokesman for Menino.  Last year’s Super Bowl XLV between the  Green Bay Packers 
and Pittsburgh Steelers attracted  111 million  viewers and was
the top individual telecast of 2011, according to Nielsen, which
measures media audiences.  The 30-second commercial will run regionally, not
nationally, Guilfoil said in a telephone interview. The
coalition will spend “hundreds of thousands of dollars” on the
spot, said  Marc LaVorgna , a Bloomberg spokesman, in a news
release.  Mayors Against Illegal Guns has investigated weapons
dealers and gun shows with undercover buyers who have been
recorded on video selling firearms to individuals posing as
ineligible purchasers under federal laws.  “The coalition is committed to closing deadly gaps in the
national gun background-check system that gives criminals,
terrorists, domestic-violence offenders, the seriously mentally
ill and other dangerous people easy access to firearms,”
Giulfoil said.  New York ’s mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York  City Hall  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannenbaum@bloomberg.net  