-- Bloomberg Faces Rising Pension Costs in ’13 Budget
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-02-01T21:16:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/new-york-city-faces-rising-pension-costs-in-fiscal-2013-budget-mayor-says.html
New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  may
have expected an easier time balancing next year’s $70 billion
budget after trimming a $4.6 billion deficit to $2 billion in
November. Now a new pension formula may widen that gap.  New York owes its five pensions about $2 billion more than
previously budgeted because officials have been too optimistic
in assuming an 8 percent return on fund investments, Chief
Actuary Robert North has determined. A more realistic
expectation would be 7 percent, North said.  New York officials and union leaders who sit on the pension
boards now must figure out how North’s calculation might be
accommodated in a budget the mayor has described as already cut
“close to the bone.” Bloomberg will discuss the impact of
using a lower rate tomorrow when he presents his fiscal 2013
budget to the City Council, said a person with direct knowledge
of his plan who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly about it.  “The problem is to balance responsible funding of the
pensions while remaining sensitive to the city’s capacity to
pay,” North said today in an interview.  He and the mayor have agreed to a plan that he compared to
a mortgage, which would spread payments that increase 3 percent
annually over 22 years. The formula will take into account
variables such as market performance, worker attrition,  life
expectancy  and  retirement age , North said.  Reserve Fund  The city already has put $1 billion in reserve to cover an
expected increase in pension contributions next year, which the
mayor anticipated in May while drafting his budget for the
current fiscal year.  State law enacted during the 1970s fiscal crisis that
brought the city to the brink of bankruptcy requires New York to
balance its budget. Tomorrow, the mayor intends to present a
balanced spending plan with no increased taxes “because we
budgeted with foresight,” said  Marc LaVorgna , a mayoral
spokesman, in an e-mailed statement.  “The actuary is doing the right thing, but the issue
remains how to pay for such a huge hit,” said Brooklyn Democrat
Domenic Recchia, who chairs the council’s Finance Committee.
“We can’t cut police, fire or sanitation. They keep the city
going.”  Lower Returns  Public pensions have been forced to re-evaluate projected
returns that determine how much money taxpayers need to pour
into retirement funds. In the 10 years through June 2010, the
biggest state pension systems -- battered by the Internet stock
bubble, the 2008 financial crisis and the recession -- earned an
annualized return of less than 4 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The actuary of the California State Teachers’ Retirement
System, the second-largest U.S. public pension, on Jan. 30
recommended lowering the assumed rate to 7.5 percent from 7.75
percent. The board of the $144.8 billion fund is scheduled to
vote on the rate tomorrow. New York state, which manages the
third-biggest U.S. fund, lowered its rate to 7.5 percent from 8
percent in 2010.  New York City ’s pension costs have increased to $8.4
billion this year from $1.5 billion in 2002, when Bloomberg took
office, representing almost 13 percent of the $67 billion budget
for fiscal 2012, which ends June 30.  The $115.2 billion held in five separate city  pension funds 
benefits police, firefighters, teachers, civil service workers
and school administrators.  Taxi Medallions  Bloomberg signaled some of his budget plans in November,
when he trimmed the projected deficit with cuts and $1 billion
in added revenue through new taxi-medallion sales. He called for
personnel reductions through attrition in several agencies, and
about 75 dismissals. The November recommendation had no
provision to fire thousands of employees, as the mayor had
proposed and later rescinded in the current budget.  Bloomberg’s budget balancing became easier in December when
Governor  Andrew Cuomo  agreed to sign a bill that allowed the
city to sell 2,000 additional medallions for wheelchair-
accessible taxis. The move was part of a deal that would expand
private car services to allow them to pick up passengers on
streets outside  Manhattan .  The proposal met with criticism from the  Citizens Budget
Commission , a non-partisan business-funded policy research
group, which questioned the wisdom of a budget proposal that
raised revenue for just one year. The group also objected to
Bloomberg’s use of money set aside for future retiree health-
care obligations to pay current operating expenses.  ‘One-Shot Deals’  “We are not in favor of such one-shot deals that favor
short-run gain instead of long-term solutions,” said Charles Brecher, the group’s research director. “The use of such one-
time resources to pay for current expenses falls in the ‘muddle-
through’ category.”  The mayor’s budget plans, and the city’s fiscal health,
depend to some degree on economic forces beyond his control, the
city  Office of Management and the Budget  said in a  January
report .  New York fared better in the recession than the U.S.
generally, yet it has 41,000 fewer private jobs than in August
2008, when it enjoyed peak employment. That’s about 1.8 percent
off the peak, compared with a 5.1 percent shortfall for the
nation, according to the budget office.  Wall Street  One risk to city revenue comes from  Wall Street , where New
York Stock Exchange-member firms lost almost $3 billion from
July 1 through Sept. 30 last year, according to the budget
office. It was the industry’s first quarterly loss since 2008.  The city assessment is consistent with concerns raised by
state Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli , who said the industry may
lose as many as  10,000 jobs in 2012 . High-salaried financial
employees accounted for 7 percent of city revenue in 2011, he
has said.  The city’s tourism industry, which boomed with a record
50.5 million visitors in 2011, also “may be vulnerable to a
slowdown if the European debt crisis drags on or worsens,” and
combines with a weakening of the euro’s purchasing power against
the dollar, the budget office said.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in  New York  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  