-- Nickel Ore Is Deadliest Bulk Cargo on Sinking Risk, Trade Association Says
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-02-01T14:57:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/nickel-ore-is-deadliest-bulk-cargo-on-sinking-risk-trade-association-says.html
Nickel ore is the deadliest dry bulk
commodity shipped by sea, as cargoes that turn to slurry during
voyages cause vessels to capsize, with 66 seafarers killed in
the past 15 months, Intercargo said.  Ore is at risk of liquefying if it contains too much
moisture, which can make ships unstable and cause them to sink
before crew can be rescued, according to the London-based
International Association of Dry Cargo Shipowners.  “All these losses of lives were preventable, and it needs
addressing now,”  David Jones , manager of the association, also
known as Intercargo, said yesterday in a phone interview. “In
recent years, this is where we are seeing the most casualties.”  Liquefied nickel-ore cargoes accounted for all 44 deaths
among dry-bulk sailors in the final three months of 2010, Rob
Lomas, Intercargo’s secretary general, told an industry briefing
in  London  today. A further 22 died since then. Intercargo set
out guidelines today for distribution to 300 vessel owners
worldwide before new international safety rules are implemented
in 2015, Lomas said.  Nickel protects stainless steel from corrosion and 45
million metric tons of the ore were shipped in 2011, according
to Intercargo. The trade group’s four-page guide to safe loading
of the ore warns of the dangers of false or inaccurate
declarations about moisture content, Lomas said.  Insurers told Intercargo that crew arriving to load nickel
ore were testing the commodity for moisture content in galley
ovens amid concerns for their safety and a lack of adequate
testing.  Lives Lost  “These cargoes are loaded at archipelago regions from
pretty primitive areas that aren’t like traditional ports with
quays and sheds, and even have no tarpaulins to keep things
dry,” Jones said. The ore is mined in  Indonesia , the
 Philippines  and  New Caledonia  and mainly shipped to  China  for
use in steel making, Jones said.  On average, 26 lives were lost each year on ships hauling
all bulk cargoes from 2001 to 2010, according to Intercargo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  