-- Nigerian Forces Say They Arrested Militant Group’s Spokesman
-- B y   G b e n g a   A k i n g b u l e
-- 2012-02-02T21:47:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/nigeria-security-forces-arrest-militant-islamist-spokesman-qaqa.html
Nigerian security forces said they
arrested the alleged spokesman of a militant Islamist group
blamed for bombings and gun attacks that have killed hundreds of
people this year in  Africa ’s top oil producer.  “We’ve arrested Abu Qaqa, the so-called spokesman of the
Boko Haram sect and one of its leaders,” Ahmed Abdullahi,
director of the State Security Service, or SSS, in the
northeastern city of Maiduguri, said yesterday by phone. A
person purporting to be Qaqa called reporters today to deny he
had been captured.  A joint operation by agents from the SSS, a plainclothes
unit charged with state security, and the military led to Qaqa’s
capture yesterday in Maiduguri, Abdullahi said, changing an
earlier statement the arrest was made in the city of Kaduna. He
gave no further details.  Boko Haram, whose name means “Western education is a
sin,” wants to impose Shariah rule in  Nigeria ’s north. It
claimed responsibility for blasts that struck eight government
buildings on Jan. 20 in Kano, the biggest city in northern
Nigeria, killing at least 256 people, according to rights group
 Civil Rights Congress . Police put the death toll at 184.  In their latest attack, the group hacked to death with
machetes overnight six people suspected to be fellow members,
Hassan Mohammed, a spokesman for the army’s Joint Task Force in
the region, told reporters today in the city.  “The killing may have been a result of division among sect
members,” he said.  Cordon and Search  In a call to reporters today a person identifying himself
as Qaqa, who uses a voice-alteration device when he calls
reporters, denied he had been arrested. Instead, the man said
the security forces caught Abul Dardar, another senior member
who previously spoke on behalf of the group.  The person talking to reporters said Bako Haram was
reponsible for the killing of the six people, whom he said are
former members of the group who betrayed it and revealed their
identity to the authorities. He vowed the group will kill more
defectors.  Victor Ebhaleme, a spokesman for the military  task force  in
northern Nigeria, said the arrest of Qaqa showed that “our
collective efforts are paying off.”  Multiple bomb blasts hit Maiduguri in attacks carried out
by suspected Boko Haram militants early today, Ebhaleme said
today by phone. No casualties were reported from the blasts, he
said.  Nigeria is roughly split between a mainly Muslim north and
a predominantly Christian south. More than 14,000 people died in
ethnic and religious clashes in the West African nation between
1999 and 2009, according to the Brussels-based  International
Crisis Group .  The group claimed responsibility for the bombing of a
church near Abuja, the capital, on Christmas Day that killed 43
people, and the Aug. 26 suicide-bombing of the United Nations
building in Abuja that left 24 dead.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gbenga Akingbule in Maiduguri at 
 gakingbule@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  