-- Nomura’s Profit Rebound on Private-Equity Gains Leaves Doubts Over Future
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-02-01T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/nomura-s-return-to-profit-leaves-questions-over-sustainability.html
Nomura Holdings Inc.’s (8604)  return to
profit last quarter, driven by the sale of a restaurant chain,
may not be enough to reassure investors that it will sustain an
earnings rebound.  Japan’s biggest securities firm yesterday posted  net income 
of 17.8 billion yen ($234 million) for the three months ended
Dec. 31, even as brokerage commissions, investment banking fees
and trading profit fell. That followed a 46.1 billion yen net
loss the previous quarter.  Chief Financial Officer Junko Nakagawa said the company has
no plans to deepen its $1.2 billion cost-cutting plan after
trimming staff in the quarter. Nomura may be  downgraded  by
Moody’s Investors Service, which began a review in November,
citing overseas losses and a failure to generate returns from
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. assets bought in 2008.  “The question remains whether the profit Nomura made this
time is sustainable, and whether it will be able to boost
revenue in future,” said Katsunori Tanaka, an analyst at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in Tokyo with a neutral rating on
Nomura. He said it was “positive” to see that the company
pared personnel expenses.  Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601) , Nomura’s closest domestic
rival, and  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  said this week that they
are eliminating more jobs as  Europe ’s debt crisis roils markets.
 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) , Japan’s biggest publicly
traded bank, yesterday joined Mizuho and Sumitomo Mitsui
Financial Group Inc. in posting lower lending income for the
quarter as Japan’s sluggish economy hampered borrowing demand.  Higher Revenue  Nomura’s net income rose 33 percent last quarter from a
year earlier. Revenue climbed 25 percent to 481.5 billion yen,
the Tokyo-based bank said. Gains from private-equity investments
totaled 34.6 billion yen, spurred by the 128 billion yen sale of
Japanese family restaurant chain Skylark Co.  Brokerage commissions fell 26 percent from a year earlier
to 74 billion yen, the bank said. Investment-banking fees
dropped 49 percent to 17.2 billion yen. Trading profit declined
24 percent to 80.1 billion yen.  Shares of Nomura rose 0.4 percent to 280 yen in Tokyo
yesterday before the earnings were released. They have tumbled
80 percent since the company bought bankrupt Lehman’s European
and Asian operations more than three years ago, and reached 224
yen on Nov. 24, the lowest in at least 37 years.  European Turbulence  “Nomura bounced back after being caught by turbulence in
Europe in the previous quarter,” said  Masao Muraki , a Tokyo-
based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG. “Visibility is still cloudy,
and the bank may struggle to raise revenue, including at its
retail and asset management businesses.”  Chief Executive Officer Kenichi Watanabe is trimming
payroll costs that surged after his company took over the Lehman
businesses, inheriting 8,000 employees of the U.S. firm.
Personnel costs fell 11 percent last quarter from a year earlier
to 127.8 billion yen. Nomura’s global  headcount  dropped to
34,933 employees as of Dec. 31 from 35,697 three months earlier.  “We have made solid progress towards achieving the
targets” of the expense-reduction program, the bank said in a
statement yesterday.  Nomura continued to lose money abroad. Pretax losses from
 overseas operations  widened to 19.4 billion yen from 3 billion
yen a year earlier.  Two of the highest-ranking former Lehman employees stepped
down in January.  Jesse Bhattal , who was chief of wholesale
banking, left Nomura after his division bore the brunt of the
losses. Tarun Jotwani’s global markets division was split into
equities and fixed income after he resigned.  ‘Cut Too Much’  “The problem for investment banks as a whole is if you cut
too much, you don’t have enough capacity to do a proper job,”
said Ralph Silva, a strategist at Silva Research Network in
 London . Nomura is “committed to sticking with it until economic
conditions improve,” he said.  Moody’s said in November that it may cut Nomura’s  credit
rating  from the current Baa2, the second-lowest investment
grade. The review will consider the firm’s cost-reduction plans
as well as its “failure to generate synergies and returns from
the Lehman acquisition,” the rating company said on Nov. 9.  Maki Hanatate, senior credit officer at Moody’s in  Tokyo ,
declined to comment on Nomura’s earnings.  Nomura got a smaller piece of a shrinking market for equity
underwriting last year. The Japanese firm managed 1.7 percent of
global equity, equity-linked and rights offerings in 2011, down
from 3.3 percent a year earlier, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Worldwide offerings fell 25 percent to $618 billion.  Mergers Advice  The bank fared better in mergers advisory, where its global
rank improved to 12th last year from 13th, as Japanese companies
sought to capitalize on a stronger yen to make acquisitions
abroad, the data show.  Daiwa posted on Jan. 31 a fourth straight quarterly loss
and said it will cut a further 200 jobs overseas, taking total
dismissals for the current fiscal year to 500. Mizuho,  Japan ’s
third-biggest bank by market value, said it will eliminate 300
more positions at its brokerage arm by March 31, bringing total
cuts to 1,000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at   csomayaji@bloomberg.net  