-- Nuclear-Waste Overhaul by U.S. Will Take Years, Panel Chief Says
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-02-01T17:59:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/nuclear-waste-overhaul-by-u-s-will-take-years-panel-chief-says.html
The U.S. will need more than a year
to create an organization that will oversee federal nuclear-
waste policies, according to a co-chairman of the panel that
studied the issue for President  Barack Obama .  “You’re at least talking a year, maybe two years, maybe
more,” to set up the entity, Lee Hamilton, a co-chairman of the
Blue Ribbon Commission on America’s Nuclear Future, said today
at a House subcommittee hearing in Washington.  Lawmakers are studying a recommendation by the commission
to create a government-chartered corporation to oversee nuclear-
waste management, taking over from the Energy Department. The
corporation would license, build and operate storage and
disposal sites, according to the Jan. 26 report.  Obama two years ago set up the commission to study options
after canceling funding for the government’s proposed repository
at  Nevada ’s Yucca Mountain, about 100 miles (161 kilometers)
northwest of  Las Vegas . Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a
Nevada Democrat, led opposition to the project.  “We don’t anticipate legislation” in the current session
of Congress, which is deadlocked by partisan disagreements,
Hamilton said. The Energy Department should take steps “so that
we can keep this process moving,” he said.  The Energy Department can negotiate with utilities to
revamp the fee structure of the Nuclear Waste Fund to ensure
money is used for waste management, according to the report. The
department also can begin design studies for a possible
temporary storage site, which the commission supports, it said.  Congress should create the corporation and revamp the fund,
Representative  John Shimkus , an Illinois Republican and chairman
of the House subcommittee, said at today’s hearing.  More than 65,000 tons of spent nuclear fuel are stored at
about 75 operating and closed U.S. reactor sites, and about
2,000 tons are added a year, according to the commission.  “We don’t want a dead stop here for two or three years
while we wait to develop an organization,” Hamilton said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in  Washington  at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  