-- NYSE Says Appeal of EU Ruling on Merger With Deutsche Boerse Is an Option
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-02-01T13:47:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/nyse-says-appeal-of-eu-ruling-on-merger-with-deutsche-boerse-is-an-option.html
NYSE Euronext (NYX)  Chief Executive Officer
 Duncan Niederauer  said the exchange operator is considering
whether to appeal against European regulators’ veto of its
merger with  Deutsche Boerse AG. (DB1)   An “appeal is an option going forward,” Niederauer said
in a phone interview today, while he’s in “no rush” to make a
decision. Both exchanges said today that they will focus on
standalone strategies and are negotiating to terminate the
takeover deal.  The European Commission blocked  Deutsche Boerse  and NYSE
Euronext’s plan to create the world’s biggest exchange today
after concluding it would hurt competition. The deal would have
led to a “near monopoly” in the region’s exchange-traded
derivatives, the commission said.  NYSE Euronext won’t have to pay a break-up fee to terminate
the merger, Niederauer said. The operator of the New York Stock
Exchange will now consider options for growth, he said,
declining to comment on whether it will bid for the London Metal
Exchange or LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. The company, which reports
earnings next week, will also present “pretty detailed 2012
plans,” including how it will contain costs, he said.  LME Bids  The LME, founded 135 years ago, will consider bids on Feb.
23 that may lead to a takeover of the world’s biggest platform
for trading metals. LCH.Clearnet, owner of the largest swaps
clearinghouse, is holding exclusive talks with  London Stock
Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  after previously drawing interest from NYSE
Euronext.  “Neither of those deals would have the degree of
difficulty” that Deutsche Boerse posed, Niederauer said today.
The European veto “really sends a message to the whole
industry. An industry that should consolidate has run into
unanticipated resistance.”  Deutsche Boerse agreed to acquire its New York rival in a
deal valued at $9.5 billion when it was announced last February.
Since then, the value has plummeted to about $7.3 billion as
Deutsche Boerse shares fell. The companies appealed directly
to commission President Jose Manuel Barroso last month to try to
salvage their merger, arguing that a ban would harm European
exchanges and drive business to other parts of the world.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  