-- Reynolds Assails Mandate for Graphic Cigarette Pack Images
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-02-01T21:32:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/tobacco-companies-ask-judge-to-find-graphic-label-rule-unlawful.html
Cigarette makers, including  R.J.
Reynolds  Tobacco Co. and Lorillard Tobacco Co., urged a federal
judge to overturn a U.S. rule mandating graphic health warnings
on cigarette packaging.  “The purpose of the warnings is not to inform, but to
scare consumers into adopting the government’s course of
action,” Noel Francisco, a lawyer for R.J. Reynolds, a unit of
 Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) , told U.S. District Judge Richard Leon
today in  Washington . The government is using “threats and
fear” to motivate people to stop using a lawful product, he
said.  Leon in November canceled a Sept. 22 deadline for tobacco
companies to begin displaying images such as diseased lungs and
a cadaver with chest staples on an autopsy table on the top half
of the front and back of all cigarette packages. The U.S. Food
and Drug Administration rule may “unconstitutionally compel
speech,” the judge said. The government appealed.  Leon said today he will issue a ruling before the  U.S.
Court of Appeals  in Washington hears arguments scheduled for
April 10 on his earlier decision.  Mandates for Packaging  Lorillard (LO) , R.J. Reynolds, Commonwealth Brands Inc., Liggett
Group LLC and Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Co. sued the FDA in
August, claiming its mandates for cigarette packages, cartons
and advertising violate the First Amendment. The companies said
in court papers that it would cost them a total of about
$20 million to meet the 2012 deadline.  Mark Stern, a Justice Department lawyer, compared the FDA
mandates to warnings on packages of charcoal telling people to
not use it indoors, noting that 28 people a year die from carbon
monoxide poisoning for using charcoal inside their homes.  With cigarettes, there are 440,000 deaths, Stern said.  “That’s a pretty big interest,” he added. “It’s no
secret that the government wants people to stop smoking.”  Leon told Stern that the  tobacco companies  aren’t
“quarreling with warnings per se.” Rather, it’s the use of
graphic images that cross the line from warning to advocacy.  In his November ruling, Leon said the nine images selected
by the government were intended to produce an emotional response
and go beyond “purely factual and uncontroversial information”
that other courts found to be permissible government-compelled
speech. He also said the government “side-stepped” questions
about whether any single graphic warning was effective in
educating consumers about smoking risks.  True Depictions  Stern said today that all the images are true depictions
required by Congress in the 2009 Tobacco Control Act to show the
negative health consequences of smoking. He said that the image
of a man with cigarette smoke coming out of a hole in his neck
conveys addictiveness.  “It’s very unusual to sell a product that when used as
intended will kill you,” Stern said.  Francisco countered that under the government’s rationale,
it would be “factual and uncontroversial” to show a picture of
an elderly woman smoking a cigarette with text claiming “115-
years-old and still smoking.”  Leon said there’s nothing in the record to show that
Congress gave “clear, thoughtful analysis” to the First
Amendment applications of the law.  “Congress did what it did out of some innate sense of ‘we
can do this’,” he said.  The case is R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. v. U.S. Food and Drug
Administration, 11-cv-1482, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 