-- Obama Plans Assistance for Rentals, Mortgage Refinancing
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-02-01T16:09:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/obama-said-to-plan-assistance-for-home-mortgage-refinancing.html
President  Barack Obama  announced a
package of proposals to jolt the housing market, his latest
effort to reignite the economy after four years of foreclosures
and falling home prices.  “This housing crisis struck right at the heart of what it
means to be middle class in America: our homes,” Obama said in
the text of remarks he’s delivering in the Washington suburb of
 Falls Church ,  Virginia . “We need to do everything in our power
to repair the damage and make responsible families whole.”  The president said his plan would make it easier for
homeowners to refinance their mortgages into current low
 interest rates , which are now below 4 percent. Borrowers, even
those who owe more than their homes are worth, would be able to
refinance into government-guaranteed Federal Housing
Administration Loans.  To pay for the program, Obama will ask Congress for a tax
on financial companies with more than $50 billion in assets.
Congress has refused to act on similar requests twice in the
last two years.  “No more red tape, no more runaround from the banks,”
Obama said in his prepared remarks. “And a small fee on the
largest financial institutions will make sure that it doesn’t
add to the deficit.”  Rental Properties  The proposal includes a pilot program to sell foreclosed
properties in bulk to investors who maintain the homes as
rentals, according to the White House. The pilot will be limited
to homes owned by  Fannie Mae (FNMA) , the mortgage company under
government conservatorship.  In a separate announcement, the  Federal Housing Finance
Agency  invited real estate investors to apply for eligibility to
bid prior to the auction, which has not been scheduled.  To qualify, investors must show financial wherewithal and
experience and agree to keep “certain information” about the
program confidential. Investors may apply at
 www.homepath.com/structuredsales.html .  “This is an important step toward increasing private
investment in foreclosed properties to maximize value and
stabilize communities,” FHFA Acting Director Edward J. DeMarco
said today in a press release.  Obama is scheduled to speak about the housing plan today in
Falls Church, Virginia, a state that is expected to be an
important election battleground.  Added Programs  The announcement adds to a mosaic of existing programs
aimed at boosting the housing market, which is entering its
fourth year of weak sales and high  foreclosures .  The FHA refinancing idea, if it wins funding from Congress,
would help borrowers cut “through the red tape” and limit
paperwork. Appraisals and tax returns would not be required,
according to the White House fact sheet.  “A lender need only confirm that the borrower is
employed,” according to the document. Unemployed borrowers
might qualify for the loans if they meet other credit
requirements.  Thousands in Savings  The proposal could save borrowers an average of $3,000 a
year, according to the document. The program is open to
“responsible” homeowners current on their payments and with no
more than one delinquency in the previous six months.  Loan applicants must have a credit score of 580 or higher
to be eligible and occupy the property they want to finance.  Loans must not exceed FHA lending limits, which range from
$271,050 to $729,750, depending on the location of the purchase
property. Borrowers who are underwater, or owe more than their
home is worth, would be eligible to apply for the loans if they
met other requirements.  Residential real estate prices fell more than forecast in
November, according to a Jan. 31 S&P/Case-Shiller report, and
property values have dropped 33 percent from their peak in July
2006.  About 11 million households are underwater, or owe more on
their homes than the properties are worth. Earlier this month,
the Federal Reserve Board called the housing market
“depressed.”  The FHA, created in 1934 with the goal of expanding
homeownership for underserved communities, charges lenders and
borrowers a fee in exchange for a guarantee that mortgages will
be paid. The agency has grown rapidly since the 2008 subprime
lending collapse and now insures more than a third of U.S.
mortgages. At the same time, the agency’s cash reserves hit a
record low of $2.6 billion last year.  Since the 2008 subprime lending collapse, the FHA has paid
$37 billion in claims related to defaulted mortgages, according
to an independent audit released in November.  In a separate announcement last week, Obama expanded the
Home Affordable Modification Program, or HAMP, relaxing rules on
loan modifications and tripling incentives to banks to help more
homeowners lower their interest rates and shed mortgage debt.  The revision, which would be funded with about $20 billion
in unobligated TARP money, would pay  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC) 
to forgive debt on devalued homes. The companies, which were
taken under government conservatorship in 2008 amid massive
losses, so far have refused to reduce mortgage debt for
distressed borrowers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  