-- Obama’s War of Words With Iran Is Unlike Bush’s Iraq Campaign
-- B y   J o h n   W a l c o t t
-- 2012-02-01T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/obama-s-war-of-words-with-iranian-leaders-is-unlike-bush-s-iraq-campaign.html
President  Barack Obama  drew a
bipartisan standing ovation from members of Congress last week
when he warned Iran that pursuing nuclear weapons is a red line
the Islamic Republic shouldn’t cross.  “Let there be no doubt: America is determined to prevent
Iran from getting a nuclear weapon, and I will take no options
off the table to achieve that goal,” Obama said to sustained
applause during his Jan. 24 State of the Union address.  While the Obama administration’s warnings to Iran may sound
like an echo of the Bush administration’s drumbeat for war with
 Iraq  a decade ago, they differ in two critical ways, according
to current and former officials and analysts.  The Obama administration’s motives, they said, are the
opposite of Bush’s, and they are consistent with the U.S.
intelligence community’s nearly unanimous analysis of Iran’s
nuclear efforts and ties to international terrorism.  The Bush administration was seeking to build support for a
war to oust Iraqi dictator  Saddam Hussein , while the Obama
administration is trying to avert a war by warning Iran of the
perils if it proceeds toward producing nuclear weapons, said
three administration officials. All three spoke on the condition
of anonymity because they aren’t authorized to discuss the
matter.  Second, the current administration’s allegations about Iran
are largely consistent with the consensus in the 16-agency U.S.
intelligence community, which Director of National Intelligence
James Clapper outlined to the Senate Intelligence Committee
yesterday.  Nuclear Activities  Iran, he said, “is expanding its uranium enrichment
capabilities, which can be used for either civil or weapons
purposes.” Still, he said: “We do not know, however, if Iran
will eventually decide to build nuclear weapons.”  The  Bush administration ’s  charges  about Iraq’s alleged
chemical, biological and nuclear weapons and ties to al-Qaeda
were based largely on information provided by Iraqi exiles and
collected outside of regular intelligence channels by
independent cells overseen by then-Defense Secretary  Donald Rumsfeld  and Vice President  Dick Cheney . Many U.S. and other
intelligence professionals distrusted the exiles’ assertions,
many of which eventually were found to be false.  The Obama administration “is being more conservative about
Iran than the Bush administration was about Iraq,”  Jon Alterman , a former State Department official who now heads the
Middle East Program at Washington’s Center for Strategic and
International Studies policy center, said in an e-mail.  ‘Disorienting Period’  “That probably partly has to do with the fact that we’re
not in the disorienting period that followed 9/11, and partly
that the difficulty of long wars in Iraq and  Afghanistan  has
made ground wars a less attractive option than one might have
appeared earlier,” he said. “Different presidential
temperaments and notions of leadership play a role here, too.”  Obama, who took office in 2009 determined to seek common
ground with Iran, has taken a harder line as Iran’s leaders have
ignored or rebuffed public and secret U.S. approaches, said one
of the administration officials.  As Iran has continued its nuclear program, most recently
firing up a new, deeply buried uranium enrichment facility near
the city of Qom, the president and other officials have stepped
up their warnings to Tehran.  Army General Martin Dempsey, the chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, told the CBS News program “60 Minutes” on
Jan. 8 that the U.S. is preparing a military option against  Iran 
“in a timely fashion.”  Three Audiences  “The Iranians should never think that there’s a
reluctance” to use force to stop them,  Dennis Ross , who served
two years on Obama’s National Security Council and a year as
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton ’s special adviser on Iran,
said in an interview Jan. 9.  That drumbeat has three audiences, said two of the
administration officials -- in Iran, at home and in  Israel ,
where Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu , Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  and other officials have repeatedly said all options are
on the table in ensuring Iran doesn’t obtain nuclear weapons.  “The administration, even though it does not want a war,
is talking tough about Iran not only in the hope of swaying the
Iranians but also because of the political need to do so and to
try to hold off pressure from warhawks in both the  United States 
and Israel,” said Paul Pillar, a longtime CIA officer who now
teaches at  Georgetown University , in an e-mail.  Reassuring Israel  In an election year, when the president and his party need
support of Democrats who back Israel, Obama needs to hold off
Israel from attacking Iran without his being seen as doing so,
said a former Bush administration official, who spoke
anonymously because he still has a security clearance.  There is no certainty that Obama will succeed in deterring
Iran from a decision to produce nuclear weapons or Israel from
taking military action to prevent that outcome.  “I believe the President believes that building the
pressure offers the best way to change Iran’s behavior through
non-military means,” Ross said in an e-mail. “But because I
believe he is serious about the objective, he is ready to use
force if all else fails.”  As tensions rise, administration officials said they are
increasingly concerned that a miscalculation by either side
could trigger both a war that sends  oil prices  skyrocketing and
a worldwide terror campaign by Iran and its proxies such as the
radical Shiite Muslim group Hezbollah.  Already, Clapper testified, there is evidence that Supreme
Leader Ali Khamenei and other Iranian officials “have changed
their calculus and are now more willing to conduct an attack in
the United States in response to real or perceived U.S. actions
that threaten the regime.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Walcott in  Washington  at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  