-- Ohio Tries to Escape Fate as a Dumping Ground for Fracking Fluid
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-02-01T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/ohio-tries-to-escape-fate-as-a-dumping-ground-for-fracking-fluid.html
The millions of gallons of chemical-
laced wastewater that fracking produces must flow somewhere, and
 Ohio (STOOH1)  is trying not to be that place.  The oil and natural-gas drilling boom spurred more permits
for disposal wells there during the past two years than during
the previous decade combined. The volume injected into them was
on a near-record pace last year, according to the Department of
Natural Resources, and more than half was from out of state.
That included 92.6 percent of the water sent to a Youngstown
well closed last year after 11 nearby earthquakes.  “We have become in  Ohio  the dumping ground for
contaminated brine,” state Representative Armond Budish, the
House Democratic leader, said at a Jan. 26 forum in Columbus.
“We didn’t prepare adequately for the potential for earthquakes
and other environmental problems.”  Now, Ohio is considering tightening regulations governing
wells in response to the temblors and seeking to stem out-of-
state fluid shipments. It’s an example of the challenges U.S.
states face as they try to enjoy hydraulic fracturing’s economic
boost while avoiding its side effects.  Ohio’s situation highlights the tradeoff that may come with
the technique of using chemical-laced water to bring forth
natural gas and oil, said Glen Andersen, energy program director
for the  National Conference of State Legislatures  in Denver.
While states benefit from investment by companies including
 Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) ,  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  and  Vallourec SA (VK) , they
also may contend with roads damaged by heavy equipment and
concerns about polluted drinking water, he said.  Negotiating the Constitution  “It doesn’t necessarily mean there needs to be this
tradeoff with environment versus energy extraction,” Andersen
said in a telephone interview. “It really comes down to the
degree to which it’s regulated and whether those regulations are
enforced.”  In Ohio, companies pay to operate disposal wells after they
have been approved by the state, and brine haulers hired by
drillers pay the companies to inject the fluid. The well owners
pay a disposal fee to the state of 5 cents per barrel for brine
originating in the state and 20 cents for out-of-state
wastewater, according to the Ohio Natural Resources Department.  Republican Governor  John Kasich  said that while he’s not
happy about the increasing volume of wastewater from neighboring
states, the U.S. Constitution prohibits interference with
shipments. He declined to speculate about what might be done.  Soaking It Up  “When people are using our things, and they could disrupt
our ability to have progress here, we have to be concerned about
it,” Kasich said in an interview in Columbus on Jan. 26.
“We’re thinking about what we can do and not violate the
interstate commerce clause.”  There were more than 150,000 so-called Class II injection
wells in 33 states to handle drilling wastewater disposal,
according to a 2010 U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
inventory, Catherine C. Milbourn, a spokeswoman, said in an e-
mail.  Ohio has fewer wells and less disposal as energy-producing
locales such as Texas and  Oklahoma , said Larry Wickstom, the
state geologist.  Still, with fracking’s increase, Ohio’s wells absorbed
368.3 million gallons during last year’s first three quarters,
according to Natural Resources Department records. That’s up
from 359.3 million for all of 2010 and more than in any year
since 1987, records show. The state approved 29 permits for
wells last year after averaging about four a year for the past
two decades.  Pennsylvania’s Sponge  Of the almost 22 million gallons of wastewater that
Pennsylvania’s Marcellus shale operators sent to disposal wells
in the first six months of 2011, nearly 99 percent went to Ohio,
according to  production reports  from the Pennsylvania
Environmental Protection Department.  Pennsylvania has six active Class II wells compared with
177 in Ohio in part because the geological formations in the
state’s east aren’t permeable, and because until recent years,
the state allowed drillers to discharge brine into streams or
take it to treatment plants, Steve Platt, an EPA hydrologist in
Philadelphia, said in a telephone interview.  Fluid recycled or sent to disposal wells increased after
the state started limiting wastewater sent to treatment plants
in 2010, Kevin Sunday, a spokesman for the  Pennsylvania 
department, said in a telephone interview from Harrisburg.  Effluent Exodus  The exodus of fracking wastewater to Ohio is “a chronic
problem,” Jan Jarrett, chief executive of the environmental
advocacy group PennFuture, said in a phone call from Harrisburg.
She called for solutions such as the construction of treatment
facilities that can handle drilling wastewater and meet state
standards.  “This is not going to go away,” Jarrett said.  After Youngstown’s earthquakes, including a 4.0 magnitude
New Year’s Eve temblor, Ohio shut down a disposal well that D&L
Energy Inc. began operating in December 2010 and declared a
moratorium on new wells in the area pending further study.  Ohio will no longer allow drilling into Precambrian or
bedrock levels because the 9,300-foot (2,834-meter) 
Youngstown well was too deep, Kasich said.  The Natural Resources Department soon may make other
recommendations, including limiting volumes injected and
requiring more in-depth analysis of rock formations and seismic
data before wells are drilled to limit earthquake risk, said
Rick Simmers, chief of the department’s oil and gas division.  ‘A Mighty Risk’  The Youngstown well may have triggered a unknown fault, and
Ohio needs to do more mapping of its deep underground structure,
said Wickstom, the state geologist.  The state’s actions are too little, too late, said Jack
Shaner, deputy director of the Ohio Environmental Council in
Columbus. He called the Youngstown earthquakes “a heck of a
shake-up, wake-up call.”  “Why is Ohio lunging at the opportunity to be the dumping
ground for the nation’s fracking waste?” Shaner said in a
telephone interview. “We are taking a mighty risk in injecting
materials into the deep, dark unknown underground.”  While Simmers said the state hasn’t reached a definite
conclusion that the Youngstown well caused the quakes, the
evidence “is pretty solid,” Art McGarr, a geophysicist for the
 U.S. Geological Survey  in  Menlo Park ,  California , said in a
telephone interview.  Preliminary findings of a study McGarr is completing for
the EPA suggest a connection between the volume of fluid
injected and the size of the earthquakes, and it’s reasonable to
expect more seismic activity with increasing amounts of fluid,
he said.  “It’s a concern, but it isn’t anything that has me in a
panic,” Kasich said. “We are going to need more capacity, but
it’s not something that I’m laying awake at night worrying
about.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  