-- Oil Futures Fall a 5th Day as U.S. Stockpiles Rise
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 2012-02-02T07:52:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/oil-futures-decline-a-fifth-day-as-u-s-stockpiles-rise-fuel-demand-slips.html
Oil traded near the lowest in six
weeks as U.S. crude stockpiles increased more than estimated and
gasoline use fell to a 10-year low.  Brent crude  in  London  was at
the biggest premium to New York oil in 12 weeks.  Futures fluctuated today after declining as much as 0.6
percent in early trading. They settled yesterday at the lowest
price in six weeks after an Energy Department report showed
 crude supplies  in the U.S. rose by 4.2 million barrels last
week. Inventories were projected to increase 2.6 million
barrels, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  “Oil appears to be driven by U.S. domestic factors, the
larger-than-expected increase in crude stockpiles and the fall
in gasoline demand,” said Ric Spooner, chief analyst at CMC
Markets in Sydney.  Crude for March delivery was at $97.67 a barrel, up 6
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 3:31 p.m. Singapore time. The contract fell 0.9 percent
yesterday to $97.61 a barrel, the lowest since Dec. 20. Prices
are down 1.2 percent this year.  Brent oil for March settlement gained 70 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $112.26 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. It rose 58 cents yesterday to $111.56, the
highest close since Jan. 11. The European benchmark contract’s
premium to West Texas Intermediate futures was at $14.53, the
widest since Nov. 11. That compares with a record spread of
$27.88 on Oct. 14.  North Sea Oil  Brent’s premium to U.S. crude reflects unrest in  Nigeria ,
 Africa ’s top oil producer. Nigerian security forces arrested the
alleged spokesman of a militant Islamist group blamed for
bombings and gun attacks that killed hundreds this year, the
State Security Service said yesterday.  “Given the concerns in Nigeria, we can anticipate the
potential for this spread to retract lost ground and see it
heading back to $15 a barrel,” said  Jonathan Barratt , chief
executive officer of Barratt’s Bulletin in Sydney.  More North Sea oil is being shipped to  Asia  than at any
time in the past eight years as prices fall to the lowest levels
in 15 months compared with Middle East alternatives, according
to shipping data.  Companies led by BP Plc and Vitol Group have sent at least
8 million barrels of North Sea oil to Asian ports since mid-
December, equivalent to six days of U.K. production, according
to ship-tracking data from AISLive Ltd. That’s the most for any
month since 2004, data from Galbraith’s Ltd., a London-based
shipbroker, show.  U.S. Employment  Crude pared losses before a Labor Department report
tomorrow that may show payrolls last month rose by 145,000 and
the  unemployment rate  held at 8.5 percent, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of 40 economists.  “If the data continues to show a lift in economic activity
then this should translate to a lift in demand for the
commodity,” Barratt said. “Oil potential could break out of
its trading doldrums.”  Gasoline  consumption decreased  to 7.97 million barrels a
day, the lowest since September 2001, according to Energy
Department data. Stockpiles of the fuel increased 3.02 million
barrels last week, the report showed. They were projected to
rise 500,000 barrels, according to the median of 12 analyst
estimates in the Bloomberg News survey.  Distillate inventories, a category that includes heating
oil and diesel, dropped by 135,000 barrels, the U.S. report
showed. They were estimated to decline 1.38 million barrels,
according to the  survey .  Oil initially climbed yesterday in  New York  after data from
the  Institute for Supply Management  showed manufacturing in the
U.S. grew in January at the fastest pace in seven months. The
Tempe, Arizona-based group’s manufacturing index rose to 54.1
from 53.1 in December. The median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News was 54.5.  China Fuel Prices  China, the world’s second-largest oil user, may raise
retail fuel prices for the first time since April following
gains in the crude grades the government tracks.  The moving average of Brent, Dubai and  Indonesia ’s Cinta
crudes, the three types in the country’s pricing basket, over
the past 22 working days climbed 4.3 percent as of yesterday,
according to C1 Energy, a commodity researcher based in
 Shanghai . That’s above the 4 percent target that could trigger a
fuel adjustment by the National Development and Reform
Commission,  China ’s top economic regulator.  The United Steelworkers union and Royal Dutch Shell Plc
averted a potential strike in the U.S. earlier this week that
would have idled as many as 69 refineries by tentatively
agreeing to a new three-year contract.  The proposal includes pay increases of 2.5 percent in the
first year and 3 percent in the second and third years, along
with some of the improvements in safety language sought by the
union, according to three labor representatives with direct
knowledge of the negotiations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mike Anderson  at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net  