-- Oil Development in Boehner’s Jobs Plan Advances in U.S. House
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-02-01T22:04:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/oil-development-in-boehner-s-jobs-plan-advances-in-u-s-house.html
The Republican plan to allow oil
exploration in U.S. waters off the Florida coast and in parts of
 Arctic National Wildlife Refuge  to help pay for road and bridge
repairs advanced in the House Natural Resources Committee.  The panel led by Representative Doc Hastings, a Washington
Republican, approved bills directing President  Barack Obama ’s
administration to hold three offshore lease sales west of
 Florida Panhandle  by the end of 2015. The Interior Department
would expand leasing in Rocky Mountain oil-share formations and
permit wells in about 3 percent of the Arctic refuge.  “By removing government barriers to American energy
production, we can help fund road and bridge construction and
repairs without raising taxes,” Hastings said today during
debate on a measure to fund the Highway  Trust Fund  and create
U.S. jobs. “This plan will expand access to our energy
resources that are currently being kept under lock-and-key by
the Obama administration.”  The  trust fund , which finances U.S. road, bridge and mass-
transit projects, may become insolvent before the November
election unless lawmakers find additional funding. Republicans
didn’t estimate revenue from increased oil production. Democrats
say leases might raise $5 billion over 10 years.  As most revenue will come “years from now” and too late
to meet current road-financing needs, the Republicans’ plan
“make no sense in the long term and could be very damaging to
the environment,” Representative Rush Holt, a Democrat from  New
Jersey , said during the committee’s debate in Washington.  October Deadline  The  fund , which reimburses states for transportation
projects, would be unable to meet its obligations as soon as
October, according to an analysis of Congressional Budget Office
data by the  American Association of State Highway and
Transportation Officials . The federal government could have to
ration payments to the states to keep the fund solvent,
according to the budget office analysis.  Obama and congressional Republicans have ruled out
increasing the 18.4-cent-a-gallon vehicle-fuel tax, unchanged
since 1993. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce and Obama’s deficit-
reduction commission have recommended increasing the tax by as
much as 15 cents a gallon.  The Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, led by
California Democrat  Barbara Boxer , approved legislation for $109
billion in highway, bridge and mass-transit spending over two
years. The House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee,
led by Representative  John Mica , a Florida Republican,
introduced a bill yesterday authorizing about $260 billion over
five years.  Obama last week proposed funding infrastructure projects
with money previously allotted to pay for wars in Afghanistan
and  Iraq .  Obama, discussing infrastructure and energy issues in his
Jan. 24 State of the Union address, said American oil production
is the highest in eight years and encouraged natural gas
production on federal lands.  The bills are H.R. 3407, 3408 and 3410.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan in  Washington  at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net . 