-- Hong Kong Plans $10 Billion Boost to Economy on ‘Bleak’ Global Prospects
-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 2012-02-01T09:14:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/hong-kong-plans-10-billion-boost-to-economy.html
Hong Kong  will spend nearly HK$80
billion ($10.3 billion) to bolster growth as the government
forecasts the weakest expansion since 2009 on a “bleak”
outlook for the U.S. and  Europe .  Gross domestic product may rise between 1 percent and 3
percent this year, down from an expansion of 5 percent in 2011,
Financial Secretary John Tsang said today in his budget speech.
The measures, which include tax benefits, will boost GDP by 1.5
percentage points in 2012, he said.  Tsang, delivering his last budget, said “the risk of a
sharp deterioration of the external environment is increasing.”
Property prices in the city, the world’s most expensive place to
own a home, have slid 6 percent since June, and banks and
brokerages including HSBC Holdings Plc and Samsung Securities
Co. are trimming staff.  “The budget measures should help to buffer local household
spending from the impact of slower global growth, as the
European crisis threatens to spill over to affect business
sentiment in the U.S. and  Asia ,” said Donna Kwok, an economist
at HSBC Holdings Plc in Hong Kong. “Policy makers across Asia
will come under increasing pressure to loosen the fiscal spigots
or monetary conditions to support growth.”  The benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  fell 0.3 percent today.  Barely Growing  The economy grew 0.3 percent in the fourth quarter from the
previous three months, according to the government. On a yearly
basis, the expansion was 3 percent, less than the 3.1 percent
 median forecast  in a Bloomberg News survey of 12 economists.  Hong Kong Chief Executive Donald Tsang said last week in
Davos,  Switzerland , that he has never been as scared about the
global economic outlook.  “I am not optimistic about Hong Kong’s export performance
in the first half of this year,”  John Tsang  said today. “If
exports of goods were to plunge in the first quarter, the
overall economy might take a downturn in that quarter.”  Unemployment may climb this year, the financial secretary
said. DBS Bank Hong Kong Ltd. expects the jobless rate to reach
4.4 percent by year’s end, up from 3.3 percent in the fourth
quarter of 2011.  Inflation may slow to 3.5 percent this year, compared to
5.3 percent in 2011, Tsang said. Hong Kong will issue as much as
HK$10 billion of three-year inflation-linked bonds, after its
first sale last July, to help residents cope with rising prices,
he said.  Record Reserves  Tsang was last year forced to give a cash handout of
HK$6,000 for each permanent resident after his original budget
proposal drew criticism from lawmakers and led to street
protests seeking more aid for workers. With “huge” financial
reserves, the government needs to do more to tackle the
“structural issue” of poverty, Wong Hung, a professor in
social work at the  Chinese University of Hong Kong , said before
today’s budget.  Today, the financial secretary said that workers’ first
HK$120,000 of pay each year will be tax-free, up from
HK$108,000. The government will give tax rebates capped at a
maximum of HK$12,000 per company or individual.  The city’s fiscal strength is giving Tsang room to boost
spending. The government expects a HK$66.7 billion budget
surplus for the year ending March 2012, Tsang said today, after
forecasting an HK$8.5 billion deficit in March last year. That
may boost fiscal reserves to a record HK$662 billion, or 22
months of  government spending , he said.  ‘Heap Sandbags’  “This budget aims to heap some sandbags for the city to
deal with external uncertainties,” Tsang said at a press
briefing today. The financial secretary said he saw “bleak
economic prospects” for the U.S. and Europe.  Like  China , Hong Kong has a  property market  that is cooling
because of government curbs, with  Barclays Capital  predicting
prices may decline as much as 25 percent by 2013.  The  Hang Seng Property Index (HSP) , which tracks the city’s seven
biggest developers including  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16)  and
billionaire Li Ka-shing’s  Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. (1) , fell 24
percent in 2011, after gaining more than 75 percent over the
previous two years.  Ahead of today’s data, UBS AG said it saw Hong Kong’s
economy expanding 1.6 percent this year, with the possibility of
a “shallow” recession in the first half, while Standard
Chartered Plc predicted growth of 2.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  