-- Hong Kong Hospitals May Stop Admitting Foreign Pregnant Women
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-02-01T09:54:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/hong-kong-hospitals-may-stop-admitting-foreign-pregnant-women.html
Hong Kong  public hospitals may stop
admitting foreign pregnant women next year, as an influx of
mothers from China giving birth in the former British colony
strained facilities and spurred local protests.  The quota for foreigners giving birth in public hospitals
this year is 3,400, down from 10,000 in 2011, Cheung Wai-lun,
director of hospital groups at the Hospital Authority said in an
 interview  broadcasted by  Radio Television Hong Kong  yesterday.
The quota may be scrapped completely next year, he said.  Babies born in the city almost doubled in the decade to
2010, thanks to 232,536 infants born to mainland mothers,
according to the city’s Census and Statistics Department. The
influx is pushing the city’s neonatal intensive care units to
beyond designed capacity and forcing some mothers to resort to
emergency wards for childbirth, doctors said.  “Our priority is to serve the people of Hong Kong,”
Cheung said. “We are trying to safeguard local pregnant  women’s
rights  to publicly funded medical services and facilities.”  The influx of Chinese is stoking social tension as Hong
Kong residents face increasing competition for property and
school places. Mainland buyers accounted for at least 19 percent
of  home transactions  last year, according to Centaline Property
Agency Ltd., the city’s biggest closely held realtor.  Pregnant Protesters  More than 1,500 protesters, including pregnant women, took
to the streets on Jan. 15 to oppose the growing number of
mainland Chinese giving birth in the city,  Agence France-Presse 
reported. The education bureau said that 9,899 children crossed
the border from China to attend school in the 2010-2011 year.  The Apple Daily newspaper, controlled by Hong Kong media
tycoon Jimmy Lai, today ran a full-page anonymous advertisement
demanding the government stop mainland pregnant women from
“invading” the city. The advertisement has a picture of a
locust superimposed on a hilltop overlooking Hong Kong’s skyline.  The government is considering taking steps to address the
rising number of pregnant women from mainland  China , Chief
Executive Donald Tsang said earlier this month.  The government is “highly concerned” about the increase,
and may roll out measures on border control with China, he said.  A 2000 Court of Final Appeal decision ensures that all
children of mainland Chinese parents born in Hong Kong are
entitled to residency. The U.S. is among few developed nations
that grant automatic citizenship to children born within its
borders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tan Hwee Ann at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net ; 