-- Monti Says Easing Italy’s Firing Rules Can’t Be ‘Taboo’ as Talks Renew
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-02-02T14:23:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/monti-says-overhauling-italy-s-labor-law-to-ease-firings-can-t-be-taboo-.html
The Italian government will push
ahead this month with a plan to overhaul labor-market rules even
if it fails to win the backing of unions and employers, Labor
Minister Elsa Fornero said.  Fornero told union leaders and employers at a meeting in
Rome today that Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s government will
approve the new rules with or without their support and that
negotiations need to be concluded within three weeks, according
to two union officials at the talks. The government should be
more “cautious” in its rhetoric, CISL union leader Raffaele Bonanni told reporters in Rome after Fornero’s comments.  Employers and unions remain divided on how to spur hiring
in an economy where youth unemployment tops 30 percent. Changing
labor laws to make them it easier for companies to shed workers
can’t be “taboo,” Monti said last night in an interview on
Canale 5’s “Matrix” show.  The code in the labor law known as Article 18 that bans
firing without just cause and forces employers to rehire and
compensate workers deemed to be unjustly released, “can be
pernicious in some circumstances,” Monti said. Unions oppose
any attempts to weaken Article 18.  Italy  last month passed 20 billion euros ($26 billion) in
tax hikes and spending cuts and a package of measures to spur
competition and growth, helping push the yield on the country’s
10-year bond to the lowest in almost four months. Changing labor
laws may prove more challenging than those efforts. Previous
attempts to modify Article 18 have led to national strikes, even
assassinations.  Biagi Murder  Marco Biagi, an economist and consultant to the government
on labor-market changes, was gunned down in March 2002 outside
his home in Bologna by remnants of the Red Brigades terrorist
group. His killing followed the murder of another consultant on
labor-market reform in 1999.  Envelopes containing bullets and addressed to Fornero,
union leaders and  Emma Marcegaglia , head of employers lobby
Confindustria, were intercepted by the postal service earlier
this week, Ansa newswire reported on Jan. 31.  Employers say the law makes them reluctant to hire because
it makes it hard to reduce staff during tough economic times.
“We’re in a situation now where permanent jobs no longer exist
-- and we must acknowledge that,” Marcegaglia told a press
conference in Rome after the talks.  Jobless Benefits  Article 18 was one of the sticking points at today’s
meeting, the second the government has held with unions in less
than two weeks. The government made “encouraging” pledges to
broaden jobless benefits during the talks, which will resume in
about a week, CGIL union leader Susanna Camusso said, adding
that the pledges would be empty without additional resources.  The revamping of the labor laws aims to reduce what Monti
has called the “terrible apartheid” between workers who have
total  job security  and those trying to break in to the market.  Article 18 was implemented in the 1970s, and critics say it
has contributed to creating a two-tier job market where workers
covered by the rule can’t be fired, while employers increasingly
use short-term contracts with no security to avoid paying for
workers’ social contributions.  The government recognized that some “bad” forms of job
flexibility exist, Camusso said. The government’s position “is
a step forward” and can help lead to “useful solutions,” she
told reporters.  “The real problem now is not how to fire people, it is how
to create more jobs,” Camusso said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.ne  