-- Moody’s Keeps U.S. Muni-Debt Outlook Negative
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-02-01T17:48:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/moody-s-keeps-u-s-muni-debt-outlook-negative.html
U.S. state and local governments will
continue to face credit-rating cuts in 2012 as they cope with
slow economic growth, Moody’s Investors Service said.  The outlook for states remains negative for a fifth
straight year and local governments are negative for a fourth,
the New York-based credit evaluator said today. Federal-aid
cuts, high unemployment and low  consumer confidence  led to the
continued negative outlooks, Moody’s said in two reports.  “While most state and local governments have demonstrated
a willingness to adjust their budgets to the realities of the
downturn, they still face significant cost pressures that
revenue growth alone will not solve,” said Toby Cook, author of
the local-government outlook.  States will see the biggest strains from Medicaid and
pension costs, according to Moody’s. They will benefit from low
borrowing costs as revenue growth moderates, the report said.
Moody’s has a median rating on states of Aa1, its second-highest
level.  “Tentative economic growth could still be knocked off
course by contagion caused by the European recession and debt
crisis,” said Nicholas Samuels, author of the state report.  Local-government defaults may increase, though would
“still be rare,” Cook’s report said.  “Real estate assessed values remain depressed and, in some
cases, continue to decline, impacting property-tax receipts, a
primary revenue source for most municipal entities,” said Cook.  Local governments benefit from being able to raise
property-tax rates and user fees, have monopolies on essential
services and relatively low debt-service expenses, Cook’s report
said.  Downgrades of U.S. municipal debt from October through
December exceeded upgrades for the 12th straight quarter,
Moody’s said last month. About five ratings were cut of every
one upgraded in the fourth quarter, it said in a report Jan. 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  