-- Open-Market Operations May Hurt Price Stability, Subbarao Says
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l   a n d   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2012-02-01T11:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/open-market-operations-may-hurt-price-stability-subbarao-says.html
Open-market operations such as buying
and selling of  government securities  by central banks to manage
liquidity in the financial system may hurt  price stability ,
 Reserve Bank  of  India  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said.  While policy makers conduct such actions to ensure there is
sufficient cash in the banking system, price stability could be
held “hostage” if the operations are used to help a “fiscally
vulnerable sovereign” or to reduce the cost of borrowing for the
government, Subbarao said in a speech in Mumbai today.  “In India, the question has been whether the OMOs
conducted by the Reserve Bank to manage systemic liquidity are
acting as a disincentive for fiscal discipline,” Subbarao said.  The Reserve Bank has boosted borrowing costs 13 times since
March 2010 to stem price pressures in the Indian economy before
leaving the benchmark  repurchase rate  unchanged at 8.5 percent
for the second month in January.  The central bank on Jan. 24 lowered the amount of deposits
lenders need to set aside as reserves for the first time since
2009, saying it was to “address structural pressures on
liquidity in a way” consistent with the prevailing monetary
stance. The RBI has bought 719 billion rupees ($14.6 billion) of
bonds since November to ease a cash squeeze at banks.  Another question confronting central banks is whether they
are “being forced beyond their comfort zone to subordinate
their monetary policy stance to the government’s fiscal
stance,” Subbarao said today.  India’s budget deficit reached 92.3 percent of the fiscal-
year target in the nine months through December, government data
showed yesterday, compared to a 44.9 percent shortfall in the
same period a year earlier. The federal government in December
increased its annual borrowing program by 8.5 percent to 5.1
trillion rupees.  Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  has said cutting the
deficit is a “serious challenge.” The nation’s fiscal deficit
may reach 5.6 percent “with an upside risk” in the financial
year to March 31, Standard Chartered Plc forecasts, compared
with the government’s 4.6 percent target.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net 
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  