-- Tottenham Manager Redknapp Denies Using Monaco Account to Cheat on Taxes
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-02-01T17:52:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/tottenham-manager-redknapp-denies-using-monaco-account-to-cheat-on-taxes.html
Tottenham manager  Harry Redknapp 
denied cheating on his U.K. taxes, telling a London court that
speeding fines were as close as he has come to breaking the law.  The coach, who watched his team beat Wigan 3-1 last night,
is accused of working with his co-defendant, Sheffield Wednesday
owner Milan Mandaric, to evade U.K. taxes when they were at
Portsmouth soccer club. Redknapp took the stand today for the
first time, and stopped his testimony to accuse a police
detective of starring at him “to cause me trouble.”  Redknapp, 64, is fighting charges that Mandaric paid
$295,000 into a secret  Monaco  bank account named after the
manager’s dog Rosie to avoid paying income tax. Redknapp is the
favorite to replace England manager  Fabio Capello  after this
summer’s European Championships.  “I’ve always paid my tax,” Redknapp said. “I’ve always
gone to the best available people. I’ve employed the best firm
of accountants. I have always paid too much tax rather than not
enough.”  Redknapp’s trial is in its second week. This afternoon, he
accused detective Dave Manley, who led the investigation, of
trying to unsettle him on the stand.  “Mr. Manley, can you stop starring at me,” Redknapp said,
pointing a finger at Manley, who sat behind prosecutor John
Black.  “I know you’re trying to cause me a problem.”  Gift?  Mandaric, 73, appointed Redknapp as director of football at
Portsmouth in 2001, before giving him the manager’s job a year
later. Redknapp said Mandaric hired him within an hour of their
first meeting. Prosecutors allege the money paid to Redknapp was
related to performance and player sale bonuses. Mandaric says it
was a gift unrelated to soccer, to solidify his friendship with
Redknapp.  Prosecutor John Black described Redknapp as a talented
manager who was also a “hard-headed businessman with
considerable acumen” who knew his worth. Redknapp had a
contract giving him 10 percent of profits from player sales when
he was director of football at Portsmouth in 2001, and that
figure dropped to 5 percent when he was named manager a year
later.  “There was nobody I enjoyed being with more than Milan,”
Redknapp told the jury at Southwark Crown in  London . “We also
had our ups and downs. I was a bit volatile perhaps. There’s no
one else I’d rather go to dinner with even now. I love his
company.”  Crouch Sale  Redknapp got 115,473 pounds ($152,000) from the 4.5
million-pound sale of England striker  Peter Crouch  to  Aston
Villa . Crouch had joined Portsmouth from Queens Park Rangers for
1.25 million pounds in March 2002 before leaving nine months
later.  Redknapp told police in interviews that the money in Monaco
was what he was owed for Crouch. He told the jury today that he
wasn’t contractually owed the money but was “morally due” the
payment.  Wearing a black suit, sweater and black tortoise shell
glasses, Redknapp raised his voice several times. He told Black
the bank account wouldn’t have come to police attention had he
not volunteered information to Quest Ltd., private investigators
working for the Premier League to uncover corrupt payments in
2006.  “Wouldn’t I close the account if I had anything to worry
about? ” Redknapp said. “Why do I go along and tell Quest?”  ‘Seed Capital’  Prosecutors claim the offshore account was opened to funnel
bonus payments from a player trade and performances, to Redknapp
without paying U.K. employment taxes. Mandaric claimed the money
was outside of his and Redknapp’s soccer relationship, and he
saw it as “seed capital” with which he could invest in U.S.
stocks on Redknapp’s behalf and solidify the pair’s friendship.  Redknapp described some failed business investments before
Black asked him about why he signed a letter authorizing the
transfer of the $100,000 to the U.S. account. Redknapp said he
would’ve signed the document without looking at it, saying he
was more concerned with preparing Portsmouth for an F.A. Cup
game against  Manchester United  the next day.  “I was probably thinking more about marking  David Beckham 
than signing that form,” Redknapp said.  Mandaric finished giving evidence earlier, saying he’d done
nothing wrong.  “I don’t know what else I can do to convince you,” he
said as Black claimed the money was and always had been related
to Redknapp’s employment at Portsmouth. “I don’t have the best
memory in the world but I tell the truth.”  Integrity  Michael Tomana, chief executive officer of Pittsburgh-based
technology investment company Redleaf Group, appeared as
character witness for Mandaric, as did David Horne, a  Lord Mayor 
of Portsmouth.  Mandaric “is a man of uncommon intelligence, integrity,
high moral character and is a good family guy,” said Tomana,
who said he’d known the businessman since 2000.  Redknapp was Portsmouth manager from 2002 to 2004 and then
again from 2005 to 2008, leading Pompey to the F.A. Cup title in
his final full season. He left to take over at Tottenham in
October 2008 and guided the north London team to the  Champions
League  in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  