-- Oxford Nanopore to Market DNA Strand-Sequencing Products
-- B y   A n d r e a   G e r l i n
-- 2012-02-01T16:59:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/oxford-nanopore-to-market-dna-strand-sequencing-products-starting-in-2012.html
Oxford Nanopore Technologies Ltd.,
the U.K. company developing a novel gene-sequencing technology,
plans to market DNA strand-sequencing products directly to
customers this year.  Oxford Nanopore will present data on strand sequencing at
the Advances in Genome Biology and Technology conference in
 Florida  on Feb. 17, the closely held Oxford, England-based
company said today in a statement.  IP Group Plc (IPO) , which owns 21.5
percent of Oxford Nanopore, rose to its highest price since 2008
in London trading.  The announcement signals that Oxford Nanopore’s more
immediate plans are to sell systems that don’t rely on
exonuclease sequencing, for which it has a deal with  Illumina
Inc. (ILMN) , the San Diego-based maker of gene-sequencing machines that
 Roche Holding AG (ROG)  is trying to buy.  “With strand you’re reading the DNA directly,” Chief
Technology Officer Clive Brown, who is presenting Oxford
Nanopore’s data on Feb. 17, said in an interview. “You get more
information of more biological utility coming out.”  Illumina owns 15 percent of Oxford Nanopore. Its other
shareholders include Lansdowne Partners and Invesco Perpetual,
the U.K. group of mutual funds.  $1 Billion Value  Oxford Nanopore is valued at about $1 billion, and IP
Group’s holding could add 38 pence a share to its stock, said
Charles Weston, a London-based analyst at Numis Securities,
which advises IP Group, in a note to investors. He based the
figures on Oxford Nanopore gaining 25 percent of a market that
could grow to $6 billion within five years.  Weston raised his rating on London-based IP Group to
“add” from “hold.” IP Group climbed 14 percent to close at
101 pence, the biggest increase since Aug. 26, 2009. That gives
the company a market value of 369.4 million pounds ($586
million).  “It’s obviously a fantastic validation for IP Group, but
it now becomes a very large part of their portfolio,” Weston
said in an interview.  Oxford Nanopore is entering the race to develop a next-
generation machine able to decode the building blocks of  life  in
a single day, Weston said. Among the challenges it faces are
competition from much larger companies, the lack of a sales
force and that its technology hasn’t subjected to the scrutiny
of potential users, he said.  More Funding  The company has raised 74 million pounds since it was
founded and will need more funding before marketing its
products, Chief Executive Officer Gordon Sanghera said in an
interview yesterday. Financing could come from an initial public
offering or additional private funding, he said.  “My feeling is we will do another private round,”
Sanghera said. “We probably have a shareholder base that says
stay put and wait until we have a burgeoning customer base.”  In addition to its major shareholders, Oxford Nanopore has
individual shareholders, including company managers, and
employees have  stock options , according to the company.  Roche on Jan. 25 offered to buy Illumina, which has a
majority of the market share for new gene-sequencing equipment,
for $5.7 billion in a hostile takeover bid. That came after
Illumina said its new HiSeq 2500 machine will be available in
the second half of the year.  Illumina’s competitor, Carlsbad, California-based  Life
Technologies Corp. (LIFE) , also said last month it is taking orders for
a $149,000 benchtop machine called the Ion Proton Sequencer,
which is designed to fully transcribe a person’s DNA in a day,
rather than weeks or months, for about $1,000.  Oxford Origin  Oxford Nanopore, spun out of University of Oxford in 2005,
uses different sequencing technologies that were initially based
on the research of founder and board member Hagan Bayley, a
chemistry professor at the university. The company has built on
that science through collaborations with researchers at  Harvard
University , the  University of California   Santa Cruz  and  Boston
University , among others, and with internal research, said Zoe
McDougall, a spokeswoman.  The techniques rely on an engineered protein or nanopore
that creates a tiny hole in a cell membrane one-billionth of a
meter wide. As DNA bases or building blocks pass through the
hole, an electronic chip measures changes in electrical current
in the membrane and produces data that, when decoded, identifies
the sequence of bases that make up a genome.  In strand sequencing, an entire string of DNA is guided by
an enzyme and passes intact through the hole. In exonuclease
sequencing, the DNA building blocks are separated by an enzyme
and pass individually through the hole.  Strand sequencing provides more genetic information more
cheaply, Oxford Nanopore’s Brown said. The technique can read
long and complicated DNA structures more easily and with less
sample preparation, he said. It also requires less computer
software and smaller computers, Brown said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Gerlin in London at 
 agerlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  