-- Lloyds Says Wholesale Head to Retire, No Start Date for New CFO
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-02-01T09:27:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/lloyds-banking-says-wholesale-head-tate-to-retire-correct-.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s
biggest mortgage lender, said Truett Tate, the last surviving
executive director from its takeover of HBOS Plc, will retire.  Tate, 61, who headed the bank’s corporate unit, will step
down next month to be replaced on an interim basis by Andrew Geczy, the head of wholesale banking and markets, London-based
Lloyds said in a statement today. Separately, the firm said that
it’s yet to agree a starting date for incoming Finance Director
George Culmer with his current employer, RSA Insurance Group
Plc, more than two months after he was named for the role.  Chief Executive Officer Antonio Horta-Osorio is
reorganizing his management team following a nine-week absence
for exhaustion. Before returning last month, the Portuguese
banker proposed that the board “restructure and reduce his
direct reporting lines in order to strengthen the
accountabilities of his management team.” He is still trying to
install permanent replacements for two of the bank’s top roles;
finance director and corporate banking head.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ’s Chief Risk Officer
Nathan Bostock was to replace Tate as the head of the wholesale
division though he instead decided to stay with Britain’s
biggest government-owned bank, RBS said in November. Lloyds’s
Finance Director Tim Tookey, who took over as interim CEO when
Horta-Osorio stepped down, is leaving the bank in February to
join insurer Friends Life. Lloyds announced the appointment of
Culmer as finance director on Nov. 21.  Lloyds is 41 percent government-owned after receiving a
taxpayer bailout of more than 20 billion pounds ($31.5 billion)
amid the 2008 banking crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  