-- Palm Joins Morton’s With Low Ratings for Pay Not Steak in Guide
-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 2012-02-01T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/palm-joins-morton-s-with-low-ratings-for-pay-not-steak-in-guide.html
Any restaurant guide worth its sea
salt can tempt readers with descriptions of One if By Land’s
foie gras and roasted poussin. To learn that the owner pays the
busboys a “living wage” of $9 an hour, and offers paid sick
days, diners need a new guide that rates treatment of employees.  Restaurant Opportunities Centers United , a New York-based
workers’ advocacy group, reviewed and rated 156 dining
establishments and companies, from  Morton’s The Steakhouse (MRT)  and
the Palm Restaurant to Hooters Inc. and  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , on pay
and workplace policies.  “Consumers will now routinely ask if they are eating free-
range chicken,” Saru Jayaraman, co-director of the group, said
in a phone interview. “Well, we want them to ask if their
servers are getting paid sick days, too.”  The group, formed by former employees of the Windows on the
World restaurant that was destroyed in the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attack on the World Trade Center, is using the guide
to advocate for better wages and working conditions. Churches
and worker-rights advocates, some allied with labor unions, are
helping with distribution.  The workers’ group is assuming the role once played by
labor unions in raising public awareness about workplace abuses,
 Harley Shaiken , a labor professor at the  University of
California  at Berkeley, said.  Shrunken Labor Movement  “We’re seeing a smaller, less powerful labor movement,”
Shaiken said in a phone interview. “The historic role of labor
was to be the voice of working people, and now there are a host
of innovative groups raising concerns for workers.”  Business groups such as the National Restaurant
Association, based in Washington, say the effort by the workers
is a push for more  government regulation  that will end up
hurting workers.  Restaurants have created jobs, including positions in
management and ownership opportunities, Scott De Fife, a
spokesman for the Washington-based group, said in an e-mailed
statement.  “This purported dining guide is a transparent attempt to
disparage many of America’s restaurants, an industry which
provides opportunities for millions of Americans to move up the
ladder and succeed,” De Fife said.  National Edition  The guide’s aim is to focus on trends in the restaurant
industry that the group says hurts workers, including low wages,
lack of paid sick leave and policies that place  minorities,
women and immigrants into lower-paying jobs. A  New York  City
guide was issued in 2011, and a national edition was issued in
December. The group began a campaign to publicize it yesterday.  Restaurants are rated on five measures: paying a higher
 minimum wage  to wait staff and kitchen workers, offering paid
time off for illness and offering promotion to employees. A
fifth measure reflects endorsement of the group’s activities.  The group said 24 restaurants or chains met the majority of
its goals, including nine based in  New York City .  In-N-Out Burger , a fast-food chain in the U.S. West;  Craft
Restaurants , which operates in New York,  Las Vegas ,  Los Angeles ,
 Dallas  and at the Foxwoods Resort & Casino in  Connecticut ; and
Oyamel in  Washington  won high marks for treatment of workers.  The Palm , which has steak houses in 20 U.S. cities and in
 London , has been owned by the same family since its 1926 opening
in New York. Reviewers at the New York Times rate the Palm as a
“critics’ pick.”  Low Turnover  “Cut into your buttery meat, your buttery potatoes, your
creamy greens,” the newspaper says in its review. “These are
prepared with real skill and care, and taste it.”  The Restaurant Opportunities Center guide is less kind,
giving the Palm “zero” in four categories and a question mark
for wages for staff working without tips.  “We don’t have a lot of turnover,” said Richard Hammel,
district manager of the Palm on Second Avenue in New York City.
“If we didn’t treat our servers well, we wouldn’t have so many
second-generation servers.”  Roger Drake, a Morton’s spokesman, referred a call about a
rating of zero on four measures and a question mark for
promotion opportunities to  Landry’s Inc (LNY) ., which is acquiring the
restaurant chain operating in 27 U.S. states. A call to Landry’s
corporate office in Houston wasn’t returned.  Olive Garden  Restaurants that aren’t so good to their employees,
according to the guidebook: Chuck E. Cheese’s, Houston’s and
 Darden Restaurant Inc. (DRI) , which operates the Capital Grille,
Longhorn Steakhouse, Red Lobster and  Olive Garden  restaurants.  “I don’t think the ratings we received are accurate in any
way,” Rich Jeffers, a Darden spokesman, said in a phone
interview. “Opportunities in our restaurants are incredible.
The president of Red Lobster started as a line cook in 1973. I
think the guide is just not accurate.”  Rosanne Martino, general manager of  One if By Land, Two if
By Sea , said worker treatment is an important corporate value.
She doubts consumers will patronize the restaurant, which is
about 2 miles north of the New York Stock Exchange, because of
their paid sick days.  “I don’t think they care -- I wish they did, since we do
that when we are choosing clothing or sneakers,” she said in a
phone interview. “But it’s so common for the restaurant
industry to not abide by the law, to not pay for sick days. I’m
not sure people are even aware of this when they pick a
restaurant.”  The group also filed a lawsuit yesterday against Darden’s
Capital Grille in federal court in  Chicago  on behalf of workers
in Chicago, New York and Washington, saying the company
discriminates against workers.  According to the complaint, jobs such as dish washer and
food preparer are given to people of color, while positions such
as servers and bartenders, where customer tips are common, went
to white applicants.  Darden’s Jeffers said the group never responded to requests
for specifics behind their allegations.  “After repeated requests for specifics from ROC, the first
response we received is this lawsuit,” he said. “We continue
to believe these allegations are baseless. However, as with any
claims of impropriety, we will investigate thoroughly.”  The Darden case is Jones v. Capital Grille Holdings, Inc.,
12-CV-00660, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Illinois 
(Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  