-- Pemex Amends Case Against Shell Claiming Trade in Stolen Gas
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-02-01T22:44:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/pemex-amends-case-against-shell-alleging-trade-in-stolen-gas.html
Petroleos Mexicanos’ production unit
filed an amended lawsuit against Shell Chemical Co., Marathon
Petroleum Co. and  ConocoPhillips (COP)  Co. alleging they and other
U.S. companies traded natural gas condensate stolen from Mexico.  The substance, a mixture of hydrocarbon liquids produced
with natural gas that competes with light crude oil, is targeted
by Mexican drug cartels, stolen and imported to the U.S. by
companies previously sued by Pemex, as the company is known, it
said in its complaint.  Shell Chemical, a unit of  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ; Marathon;
and ConocoPhillips, named as defendants in the new complaint,
“appear to have been innocent” and dealt in the condensate
only after it was laundered, according to Pemex.  “Even absent knowledge or intent, however, the defendants’
use, purchase, and sale of stolen Mexican condensate in the U.S.
was without right or title from the Mexican government, and
therefore, was wrongful under the laws of  Mexico  and the U.S.,”
 Mark Maney , an attorney for Pemex, said in the Jan. 27 amended
complaint filed in federal court in Houston.  Rich Johnson , a spokesman for ConocoPhillips, had no
immediate comment. A voice-mail message seeking comment about
the complaint left on the media line for Shell, wasn’t
immediately answered. Shane Pochard, a spokesman for Marathon,
didn’t immediately respond to a voice-mail message seeking
comment about the case.  The cases are Pemex Exploracion y Produccion v. BASF 4:10-
cv-01997 and Pemex v Big Star Gathering Ltd, 4:11-cv-2019, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco 
at   kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 