-- Brazil ‘No Matter What’ Pushes Private-Equity to Public Deals
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i   a n d   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2012-02-01T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/tpg-joins-tarpon-in-seeking-public-brazil-stakes-as-private-prices-double.html
TPG Capital LP and  Tarpon
Investimentos SA (TRPN3)  are among private-equity firms turning to the
public markets for new investments in Brazil after prices on
closely held companies doubled.  Private Brazilian businesses have surged in value in the
past two years as international investors pour money into one of
the world’s fastest growing major economies. Public markets have
gone in the opposite direction, with the Brazil stock exchange
falling  18 percent  in 2011 as economic growth in the second half
of the year slowed more than analysts estimated.  “We see better opportunities in the stock exchange,” said
Fernando Shayer, managing partner at  Tarpon (TRPN3) , a Sao Paulo-based
private-equity firm. “Prices on private deals have increased
too much in the pressure of competition,” he said, yet private-
equity firms have to invest in  Brazil  “no matter what” because
clients are demanding it as opportunities elsewhere dry up.  The  World Bank   said  last month that Brazil’s economy will
probably expand 3.4 percent this year, compared with a 0.3
percent contraction for the euro region and a 2 percent
expansion in the U.S. Private-equity firms including the
Washington-based Carlyle Group LP and TPG Capital, based in Fort
Worth,  Texas , are opening offices in Brazil to take advantage,
driving up prices.  Closely held mid-sized companies in Brazil can be bought
for about 10 to 14 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda, said Todd Crider, co-
head of the Sao Paulo office of Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP,
a  law firm  that represents private-equity companies. The figure
had been about six or seven times Ebitda, Crider said.  Equity Gauge  Bovespa (IBOV) , Brazil’s benchmark equity index, ended 2011
trading at 5.32 times its members’ Ebitda, after the gauge of 70
stocks fell on concern the European debt crisis would slow
economic growth. The ratio compares with 5.96 times for  Mexico ’s
IPC and 6.99 times for  China ’s Shanghai Composite Index.  Private-equity firms have about $9 billion to $10 billion
to invest in Brazil through dedicated funds in the next two to
four years, according to Peter de Svastich, general managing
partner at Global Emerging Markets Group in Brazil.  “There aren’t enough good private projects for all this
private-equity money that needs to be invested in Brazil,” de
Svastich said. Global Emerging Markets used to be one of the few
providers of capital on deals for companies with annual sales of
less than $500 million. Now, a threshold of about $150 million
can attract several potential buyers, he said.  Gerdau Stake  The diverging trends in Brazil’s public and private markets
were part of Tarpon’s motivation in boosting its investment in
 Gerdau SA (GGBR4) , the  Porto Alegre , Brazil-based steelmaker whose
 shares  fell 22 percent in 2010 and 36 percent in 2011. Tarpon
increased its stake in Gerdau’s non-voting shares from 10
percent in August 2011 to 15 percent on Jan. 4, according to a
regulatory filing.  Warburg Pincus LLC, Hamilton Lane Advisors LLC, Actis LLP,
TPG Capital, 3i Group Plc and Carlyle are among firms that
opened offices in Brazil since 2008. Blackstone acquired a 40
percent stake in Patria Investimentos, a Brazilian private-
equity and asset-management company, in September 2010, while
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Highbridge Capital Management unit bought
Gavea Investimentos Ltda’s private-equity business in October of
that year.  KKR & Co., the New York-based private-equity firm run by
Henry Kravis and George Roberts, has been seeking to hire a
senior executive in Brazil since the beginning of last year and
plans to open an office in  Sao Paulo , according to a person
familiar with the matter. A spokesman for KKR in  New York 
declined to comment on Brazil.  Bain Capital  Bain Capital LLC, the Boston private-equity company co-
founded by U.S. Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney,
and Apollo Global Management LLC also have been looking for
opportunities in Brazil, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the discussions are private. Silver Lake
Management LLC, based in Menlo Park,  California , purchased a
minority stake in Locaweb Servicos de Internet SA, a website-
hosting provider based in Sao Paulo, in September 2010.  Advent, which acquired a 50 percent stake in Terminal de
Conteineres de Paranagua SA in January 2011 in its biggest deal
in Brazil, has about $3 billion to invest in the country, said
Patrice Etlin, managing partner for  Latin America  at the firm’s
Sao Paulo office.  “Advent has been in the region since 1996 and never
left,” he said.  Carlyle, which has a stake in CVC Brasil Operadora &
Agencia de Viagens SA, raised $1 billion in June to invest in
South American companies with a focus in Brazil.  Hypermarcas Deal  On the public side, Banco BTG Pactual SA, the Brazilian
bank owned by billionaire  Andre Esteves , offered to buy 1
billion reais of shares in Hypermarcas SA to join a group with a
controlling stake in the  consumer-goods  maker, a person close to
the talks said last month. Shares of Hypermarcas are down about
64 percent from a peak of 29.49 reais ($16.84) on Oct. 11, 2010.  Others investors, including Brazilian private-equity firm
GP Investments Ltd. and TPG, also have approached Hypermarcas
about joining the controlling block, the person said. Officials
at GP and TPG declined to comment.  BTG announced on June 27 it raised $1.6 billion for its
first private-equity fund, with investments from global funds,
sovereign wealth funds and family trusts.  “The biggest celebrity in M&A deals in coming years will
be private-equity firms,” said Francisco Mussnich, a partner at
Barbosa, Mussnich & Aragao, Brazil’s top legal adviser on
mergers and acquisitions. “There is a lot of movement from
private equities, which have a huge appetite.”  Biggest Economy  Brazil overtook the U.K. last year to become the world’s
sixth-largest economy, according to a survey by London-based
Center for Economics and Business Research. The  International
Monetary Fund  expects Brazil to become the world’s fifth-biggest
economy by 2016.  “Private equity needs a good underlying economic story,”
said Hartley Rogers, the founder of Hamilton Lane LLC, the
private-equity fund partly owned by  Bill Gates . “Brazil is
really driven by development of local consumption as you have a
middle class that is growing and spending more in health care,
financial services, consumer goods and homes.”  Brazil added about 38 million people to its middle class
from 2001 to 2011, bringing the total to 104 million, according
to Data Popular, a Sao Paulo-based research and consulting
company. Unemployment fell to a record low of 4.7 percent in
 December (BZUETOTN) , according to the nation’s statistics agency, IBGE.  Blue Interactive  Last month, 3i agreed to purchase a minority stake in cable
TV provider Blue Interactive Group for about $55 million, its
first transaction in Brazil.  “There is no point to look for investments paying four or
five times Ebitda, which were more usual in the past,” said
Marcelo di Lorenzo, 3i’s managing director for Brazil. “Clearly
Brazil has changed.” 3i is planning to make one or two
acquisitions in Brazil ranging from $30 million to $100 million
this year, he said.  “My clients have been complaining about these new
valuations,” Crider at Simpson Thacher said. “About seven new
international funds have been investing in Brazil in the last
two or three years as the opportunities in  Europe  and  United
States  dwindle.”  Martin Escobari, who was named General Atlantic’s head of
investments for Latin America in January, said he doesn’t think
the price increases in Brazil are out of control.  “The prices compared to growth potential are reasonable,”
Escobari said. “I don’t see any exaggeration, as the economy is
growing and industries are changing themselves.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  