-- Philippine Bonds Advance on Rate-Cut Outlook; Peso Declines
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2012-02-01T08:28:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/philippine-peso-advances-as-china-data-boosts-growth-outlook.html
Philippine  government bonds  rose on
speculation demand for debt will increase as slowing inflation
stoked speculation policy makers will lower  interest rates . The
currency declined.  Benchmark 10-year notes rallied for a fourth month in
January, pushing yields toward a record-low after Bangko Sentral
ng Pilipinas cut its benchmark overnight rate to 4.25 percent
from 4.5 percent and as President  Benigno Aquino  seeks to win a
credit-rating upgrade. A government report on Feb. 7 may show
gains in consumer prices cooled for a third month in January,
according to a Bloomberg News survey.  “Traders see BSP cutting rates in the near term as
inflation is within manageable levels,” said Speedy Delfino, a
bond trader at East West Banking Corp. in  Manila . “There’s
pressure for the authorities to support growth as the government
is aiming for an investment-grade rating this year.”  The yield on the 6.375 percent notes maturing in January
2022 dropped three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to
5.11 percent as of 4 p.m. in Manila, according to Tradition
Financial Services. The rate reached 5.09 percent on Dec. 22,
the least since the securities were sold in July.  The Bureau of the Treasury will offer as much as 9 billion
pesos ($210 million) of 20-year debt today. It sold 9 billion
pesos of February 2032 notes yesterday, drawing more than four
times that amount in bids from investors.  The central bank isn’t ruling out another interest-rate cut
this quarter “considering the conditions,” Governor  Amando
Tetangco  told reporters today. It is prepared to take more steps
to support growth, he said yesterday.  Inflation, Peso  Consumer prices probably rose 4 percent in January from a
year earlier, based on a Bloomberg News survey, compared with
4.2 percent in December. The central bank will hold its next
policy meeting on March 1.  The peso fell 0.2 percent to 42.945 per dollar, according
to Tullett Prebon Plc, after appreciating 2.3 percent in January.
It touched 42.72 on Jan. 30, the strongest level since Oct. 28.  The local currency declined, tracking losses in regional
currencies as data including an export slump in  South Korea  and
 Thailand  signaled economic growth is slowing in most of the
region’s economies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  