-- Philippines Isn’t Ruling Out Another Rate Cut, Tetangco Says
-- B y   M a x   E s t a y o   a n d   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o
-- 2012-02-01T10:24:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/philippines-isn-t-ruling-out-another-rate-cut-tetangco-says-1-.html
The Philippine central bank isn’t
ruling out another interest-rate cut this quarter, Governor
Amando Tetangco said after a report this week showed  economic 
growth slowed in 2011.  “Considering the conditions today, we are not ruling out
another adjustment within the quarter,” Tetangco said in an
interview in  Manila  today. “Being accommodative of growth at
this time would not threaten our inflation target,” he said in
a speech to the Fund Managers Association of the  Philippines .  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas lowered the rate it pays
lenders for overnight deposits by a quarter of a percentage
point to 4.25 percent on Jan. 19, its first cut since July 2009,
joining  emerging markets  from Thailand to Indonesia in easing
policy as a deteriorating global economy threatens growth.
President  Benigno Aquino  plans to increase spending to a record
this year to boost expansion.  “The very early cut in January was an insurance,” BDO
Unibank Inc. market strategist  Jonathan Ravelas  said in a
telephone interview today. “A second cut this quarter means
there’s a real need to aid the slowing economy.”  Global uncertainties have lessened the pressure on
inflation, which gives the central bank the flexibility to lower
rates, he said.  ‘Enough Liquidity’  The central bank kept the reserve requirement ratio at 21
percent of lenders’ deposits at its last meeting, and Tetangco
signaled that the monetary authority won’t use the cash ratio as
a tool to lower borrowing costs for now.  “We have more than enough liquidity,” Tetangco said when
asked whether he will cut the ratio. The central bank will
change reserve requirement rules this month, a move seen to
achieve a neutral effect, he said. The next policy meeting is
scheduled for March 1.  The central bank is monitoring capital flows and is aware
that inflows may reverse, the governor said.  “We have an enhanced toolkit to ensure large swings in the
 exchange rate  are avoided,” Tetangco said.  The Philippine economy expanded 3.7 percent in 2011,
compared with a revised 7.6 percent expansion a year earlier and
a government target of at least 4.5 percent, a report showed on
Jan. 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Max Estayo in Manila at 
 mestayo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  