-- Pimco Says Japan Remains ‘Clean Dirty Shirt’ on Current-Account
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 2012-02-01T22:57:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/pimco-says-japan-remains-clean-dirty-shirt-on-current-account.html
Tomoya Masanao, head of  portfolio
management  for  Japan  at Pacific Investment Management Co., which
runs the world’s biggest bond fund, comments on the outlook for
Japan’s government bond market and current-account balance. He
spoke in an interview in Tokyo on Jan. 31.  Japan’s  current-account surplus  narrowed for a ninth month
in November, falling 86 percent from a year earlier to 138.5
billion yen ($1.8 billion). The  Finance Ministry  is scheduled to
release figures for December on Feb. 8.  Yields (GJGBBNCH)  on 10-year Japanese  government bonds  were at 0.96
percent yesterday in Tokyo, the world’s second-lowest.  On JGBs, current-account balance:  “We believe Japan should still be differentiated from
euro-zone peripherals and viewed as ‘a relatively clean dirty
shirt’ at a time when we find no country with healthy finances
in the developed world.  ‘‘The current-account will most likely remain in surplus at
least over the next three-to-five years. Having a surplus is not
a sufficient condition but a prerequisite to explain why Japan’s
yields are low. A hefty income balance surplus will likely
remain, more than offsetting the deteriorating trade balance.  ‘‘Coupled with deflationary expectations and risk aversion
in the private sector, the current-account outlook suggests
Japan’s public sector deficit will continue to be financed
domestically.  ‘‘Almost all debt is issued in yen which the  Bank of Japan 
can print when necessary. So common sense tells us that a JGB
default is a very remote probability, and therefore credit
events for Japan sovereign credit-default swaps are unlikely to
be triggered. That could be a reason to sell CDS protection on
JGBs.  ‘‘Capital flight is unlikely to be sustained, even if it
happens, seeing as Japan is the world’s largest net creditor.’’  On the BOJ:  ‘‘We expect the BOJ’s policy stance to remain unchanged
unless the European sovereign crisis turns into a global
financial systemic risk. A sharp appreciation of the yen would
also be likely to prompt easing by the BOJ, as has always been
the case.  ‘‘The BOJ is likely to be reluctant to join the  Federal
Reserve  in conducting aggressive quantitative easing, not
because the BOJ is confident about the economic outlook, but
because the central bank doesn’t appear to believe monetary
policy is effective under a nominal zero-rate constraint. The
BOJ will keep  interest rates  low for a very long time, certainly
at least until the Fed exits from quantitative easing and its
zero-rate policy.  On investment strategy:  ‘‘We’ll stick with maturity longer than the market index
for Japan-dedicated portfolios. For global-benchmarked
portfolios, we prefer bonds with yields that have more scope to
decline, like U.S. or Australian debt, to protect our clients
from economic downside risks. Around the 10-year mark on the JGB
curve looks attractive as you can expect a greater roll-down
effect. We’ll keep the long-end underweight, expecting it to
steepen with the current account deteriorating.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monami Yui in  Tokyo  at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 