-- Planned Parenthood Replaces Lost Komen Foundation Funds With Internet Push
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o   a n d   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-02-03T02:04:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/planned-parenthood-seeks-to-replace-lost-komen-group-breast-cancer-grants.html
(Corrects location for Credo in 13th paragraph.)  Planned Parenthood Federation of
America may have already replaced the $680,000 in funding it
lost from the  Susan G. Komen for the Cure  foundation for its
 breast-cancer  prevention programs, the group said today.  Riding a wave of Internet appeals,  Planned Parenthood 
received pledges of $400,000 from 6,000 donors as of 2 p.m.
yesterday, said Tait Sye, a spokesman. Three large donors also
surfaced: The Amy and Lee Fikes’ Foundation, run by the head of
closely-held Bonanza Oil Co. in  Dallas , pledged $250,000; New
York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said he’ll match the next $250,000
given and Credo, a mobile-phone company, promised $200,000.  The decision by the Dallas-based Komen foundation has
spurred a tsunami of online comment and petitions that added
political fuel to the dispute and involved corporate funders for
Komen, including Yoplait, the French yogurt maker, among others.  “This has been a contentious issue,” said Chief Executive
Officer Nancy Brinker of Komen in a conference call.  Her organization initiated a review of granting criteria in
2010, and included a clause denying money to any organization
under investigation with a unanimous vote of Komen’s board, she
said. Brinker denied that the funding drop came about because
Planned Parenthood provides abortions.  The foundation has cited an investigation by Representative
 Cliff Stearns , a Florida Republican and chairman of the House
Energy and Commerce Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee,
into whether Planned Parenthood is illegally using government
money for abortions as the reason it withdrew the funding.  Questions Asked  Some other grantees “probably do” provide abortions,
Brinker said. “We ask a lot of questions” of grantees, “but
that’s not one of them.” Funding for Planned Parenthood is less
than 1 percent of the $93 million in community health grants
that Komen provides, she said.  Three Planned Parenthoods in Northern Colorado, Waco,
 Texas , and Orange County, California will continue to get
funding because they’re the only providers in their area,
Brinker said. Another 16 have been cut off, she said.  An emergency fund created by Planned Parenthood yesterday
will help local Planned Parenthood health centers continue
offering breast-cancer screenings, education and mammogram
referrals in rural and underserved communities, the New York-
based group  said  in a  statement  yesterday.  Most online comments about the Komen Foundation’s decision
were downbeat, according to  NetBase Solutions Inc. , a  Mountain
View , California-based company whose software reads and
interprets 50,000 sentences a minute from billions of social
media sources.  Negative Comments  Two-thirds of more than 3,600 sentiments expressed online
about the split were negative, with people calling it
“outrageous,” and saying it did “irreparable harm” to the
organization, NetBase said.  A posting on Facebook, a social media website, touting
Yoplait’s connection with the Komen-sponsored Race for the Cure
drew some angry responses from users upset with the decision.
Greg Zimprich, a spokesman, said in an e-mailed response to
questions that the company has “a long history of supporting
women in the fight against breast cancer” and wasn’t involved
in Komen’s decision on the grant.  About 250,000 people have signed a petition on the website
 MoveOn.org , a political supporter of President  Barack Obama ,
calling on Komen to reverse its decision, Sarah Lane, a
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. MoveOn is planning other efforts
to pressure Komen to restore funding, she said, declining to
provide further details. San Francisco-based  Credo , Planned
Parenthood’s largest corporate funder, also has a petition.  Thankskomen.com  Those petitions were countered by groups such as
 thankskomen.com , which said it opposed Planned Parenthood,
invited people to give their personal information and have the
option of being kept informed about “pro-life developments.”  The decision by the Komen foundation spurred criticism from
women’s health groups after Planned Parenthood said the move was
prompted by pressure from anti-abortion groups. Planned
Parenthood advocates abortion rights and provides abortion
services. It also offers breast exams and mammogram referrals.  The Komen foundation said in a statement yesterday its
decision has been “widely mischaracterized” and wasn’t
politically motivated. Komen adopted more stringent eligibility
and performance criteria for recipients of community grants
after a review that started in 2010, the foundation said.  Komen Hire  Some of the political context has centered on the Komen
group’s April hiring of Karen Handel as senior vice president of
public policy. Handel joined the organization after an
unsuccessful campaign for governor in  Georgia .  In that race, Handel wrote on her blog that she would
eliminate any state grants for organizations such as Planned
Parenthood which, she wrote, “I do not support.”  Handel’s blog posting was a response to a campaign attack
targeting her 2005 vote, as a county commissioner, approving a
$425,000 grant for Planned Parenthood. She defended that vote in
the same posting as support for pass-through funding of state
and federal dollars for breast and cervical cancer screening.
Handel did not return a call to Komen seeking comment.  Brinker, who is also a founder of Komen, served as
ambassador to  Hungary  from 2001 to 2003 under  George W. Bush ’s
administration, according to the embassy’s  website . She was
chief of protocol from September 2007 until the end of his term
in office, according the state department  website .  Pink Ribbons  Along with its funding program, Komen is known for the pink
ribbons it first distributed to all breast cancer survivors and
participants of the Komen New York City Race for the Cure in
1991, according to the group’s website. The next year, Self
magazine enlisted cosmetics giants to distribute ribbons in New
York stores during breast cancer awareness month in October.  The group’s latest decision drew praise from Washington-
based Family Research Council, an opponent of abortion rights.  “Susan G. Komen’s decision to stop funding the abortion
industry is good news for women seeking help dealing with breast
cancer,” said Tony Perkins, the council president, in a
statement. “This is also good news for the lives of many unborn
babies.”  The move “will make Komen more effective” in fighting
breast cancer, said U.S. Senator David Vitter, a Louisiana
Republican who last year urged Brinker to stop funding Planned
Parenthood.  “Komen does tremendous good by supporting education and
research to fight breast cancer, and it was clear that their
association with Planned Parenthood was unnecessary to advance
that core mission,” in part because the group’s clinics don’t
own or operate mammography equipment, Vitter said yesterday in a
 statement  on his website.  ‘Alarmed and Saddened’  Cecile Richards, president of Planned Parenthood Federation
of America, urged the Komen group to renew the funding.  “We are alarmed and saddened that the Susan G. Komen for
the Cure Foundation appears to have succumbed to political
pressure,” Richards said in a statement posted on the group’s
website yesterday. “Our greatest desire is for Komen to
reconsider this policy and recommit to the partnership on which
so many women count.”  Komen grants paid for about 4.3 percent of the 4 million
breast exams and 9 percent of the 70,000 mammogram referrals
provided at Planned Parenthood clinics in the past five years,
Planned Parenthood said.  The donation from the Fikes foundation was made “so that
their health centers across the country can continue to put the
real needs of women ahead of right wing ideology,” according to
a statement on the group’s website. Lee Fikes did not return a
call to the offices of Bonanza Oil seeking comment.  Saving Lives  “Politics has no place in health care,” Bloomberg, the
New York mayor, said in the statement about his donation.
“Breast cancer screening saves lives and hundreds of thousands
of women rely on Planned Parenthood for access to care. We
should be helping women access that care, not placing barriers
in their way.” Bloomberg is the founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  As much as 75 percent of the net proceeds generated by the
Komen group are used to fund breast cancer education, treatment,
and screening projects within local communities, according to
the foundation’s  financial statement  for the year ended March
31, 2011. The remainder funds breast cancer research and project
grants on a national level, the group said in the statement.  Komen’s decision prompted  California  State Senator Alex Padilla, a Democrat who has touted the group’s causes since 2010
as part of the “Pink Tie Guy” program, to quit the post.  ‘Untenable Position’  “Komen has placed its supporters in the untenable position
of aligning themselves with acquiescence to the agenda of the
religious right, or aligning themselves with health-care and
breast-cancer organizations that will not bow to such
pressures,” Padilla said in an e-mail. “The choice is clear to
me. I choose the latter.”  The Komen foundation’s move appeared to be a “direct
result of years of pressure from opponents of women’s health
care,” said New York City Council Speaker  Christine Quinn .  “Planned Parenthood helps tens of thousands of women
nationwide identify breast cancer early when there is the best
chance of successful treatment,” Quinn, a Democrat, said in an
e-mail. “I’m disappointed that an organization which has done
so much good for women and their health has capitulated to anti-
choice ideologues and made a terribly damaging decision.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  