-- Plosser Says He Didn’t Back Fed Pledge to Keep Rates Low Until Late 2014
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-02-01T16:06:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/plosser-says-he-didn-t-back-fed-s-2014-pledge-on-interest-rates.html
Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank
President  Charles Plosser  said he didn’t support the central
bank’s decision last month to extend the time frame for low
rates at least through late 2014.  “Economic conditions have modestly improved since our
December meeting, especially on the employment front,” Plosser
said today in a speech to the Main Line Chamber of Commerce in
Gladwyne,  Pennsylvania . “I saw little justification to further
ease monetary policy.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee (FDTR)  on Jan. 25 extended its
commitment to keep rates low by at least 18 months as moderate
rates of economic growth have failed to reduce unemployment
below 8.5 percent since the 18-month recession ended in June
2009.  The Fed said in December that economic conditions were
likely to warrant low rates “at least through mid-2013.” The
central bank has held the benchmark lending rate in a range of
zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  Fed officials also published their economic forecasts after
the January meeting, which showed lower expectations for growth
for the next two years compared with their November projections.  “I was not supportive of the most recent decision to
extend the time frame for exceptionally low rates through
2014,” Plosser said. He also didn’t support the practice of
“offering forward policy guidance by saying economic conditions
are likely to lead to low rates through some calendar date.”  Not FOMC Voter  “ Monetary policy  should be contingent on the economic
environment and not on the calendar,” said Plosser, who is not
a voting member of the FOMC this year.  “Continuing to signal that we want to try to ease more
raises into question our confidence in the economy,” Plosser
told reporters after the speech.  The economy is “on firmer footing” now than in 2011,
Plosser said, adding that unlike some of his colleagues he isn’t
concerned about the prospect of disinflation, or the risk that
prices rise at a pace slower than the Fed’s goal of 2 percent.  “It’s clearly not true that elevated unemployment is a
sufficient condition to keep inflation low,” Plosser said,
noting that in the 1970s persistent inflation and high
unemployment occurred simultaneously.  The Philadelphia Fed chief said he expects the economy to
grow around 3 percent during both 2012 and 2013. Business
sentiment is improving, he said, adding that while housing
markets should stabilize, he doesn’t expect “much
improvement.”  Reduced Forecasts  Fed officials lowered their central tendency forecasts for
growth this year to 2.2 percent to 2.7 percent, down from a
projection of 2.5 percent to 2.9 percent in November. Central
bankers predicted the economy next year will expand 2.8 percent
to 3.2 percent, down from a previous forecast of 3 percent to
3.5 percent.  Residential real estate prices fell more than forecast in
November, showing distressed properties are hampering
improvement in the U.S. housing market. The S&P/Case-Shiller
index of property values in 20 cities declined 3.7 percent from
November 2010 after decreasing 3.4 percent in the year ended in
October.  Plosser said he expects “further gradual declines” in
unemployment, with the rate falling to around 8 percent or a
little less by the end of this year. Fed officials last month
forecast a fourth-quarter average unemployment rate for 2012 in
a range of 7.8 percent to 8.6 percent.  Risks to Outlook  Risks to the outlook include an economic slowdown in the
euro area that could restrain U.S. exports, Plosser said. The
central bank “must continue to monitor inflation measures very
carefully,” he said.  The Fed’s $2.3 trillion of bond purchases in two rounds of
so-called quantitative easing haven’t stoked inflation. A gauge
of consumer prices tied to personal expenditures, excluding food
and energy, rose 1.8 percent last year.  U.S. financial institutions have “gone a long way to
reducing their exposures but that’s not to say they’re not
exposed at all” to the European debt crisis, Plosser said in
response to audience questions. The Fed is “very attuned” to
the crisis in  Europe , he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at   ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Gladwyne, Pennsylvania, at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  