-- Popular Quarterly Profit Rises on Lower Bad-Debt Charges
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-02-01T17:43:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/popular-s-quarterly-profit-rises-on-lower-provisions-charges.html
Banco Popular Espanol SA (POP) , Spain’s
fifth-biggest bank, said fourth-quarter profit rose 10 percent
after it spent less to clean up real estate than rivals.  Net income increased to 75.6 million euros ($98.8 million)
from 68.8 million euros a year earlier, the Madrid-based lender
said in a filing to regulators today. That beat the 73.7
million-euro average  estimate  of 16 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  The new government of  Mariano Rajoy  is preparing to make
banks, including Popular, recognize more losses on real estate
piled up on their books during Spain’s property crash. The
lender said provisions for loans and property fell in 2011 to
1.69 billion euros, including 466 million euros of one-time
charges that it took in the first quarter, from 1.83 billion
euros a year earlier.  “We have to have the new law that says how we do it and
then we will take a decision, but we don’t have any inside
information to guess what it is going to be like,” Chief
Financial Officer Jacobo Gonzalez-Robatto said on a webcast for
analysts today, referring to the new provisioning rules that the
government is slated to announce Feb. 3. “We have proven our
capacity to set aside provisions and obviously we will keep
doing that.”  Popular shares rose 4.6 percent, their biggest gain since
Nov. 30, to close at 3.44 euros in  Madrid , valuing the company
at 4.87 billion euros.  Bad-Loan Provisions  Bad loans as a proportion of Popular’s total lending
climbed to 5.99 percent in December from 5.85 percent in
September and 5.27 percent a year earlier, the bank said. Net
entries into default fell to 570 million euros from 644 million
euros in the third quarter.  Popular said it had provisions set aside to cover 34
percent of the value of the net 4.03 billion euros of foreclosed
or acquired property on its books. The bank has 16.1 billion
euros of loans for real estate, down from 17.8 billion euros at
the end of 2010. Of its real-estate loans, 35 percent are in
default or at risk of becoming so, Popular said.  Using a “rule of thumb” based on the bank’s market share
and comment from the government that the provisioning effort for
the industry will be 50 billion euros, Popular expects it may
have to take charges of about 3.5 billion euros to clean up its
real estate, Gonzalez-Robatto said. It’ll be key to know whether
the government orders the cleanup over one year or two, he said.  “We have enough capacity to cope, even with the
unexpected,” he said, adding the bank had made 8 billion euros
in provisions over the past four years of crisis in  Spain .  ‘Zombie Banks’  The government must focus on making sure that Spain has
banks with robust business models and should avoid sustaining
those that aren’t viable through state aid, Chairman Angel Ron
said in a news conference in Madrid today.  “The last thing the Spanish financial system needs is
zombie banks sustained at taxpayer expense,” he said. “This is
a luxury we cannot allow.”  Popular’s net interest income fell 4.5 percent in the
fourth quarter from a year earlier to 526.9 million euros. Gross
lending rose an annual 0.7 percent and private-sector deposits
increased by a similar amount, the bank said. The bank expects
net interest income to grow “slightly” in 2012 and “still
significant” flows of bad loans this year, Gonzalez-Robatto
said.  Popular tapped 8.5 billion euros of funding in the form of
three-year loans from the  European Central Bank  and has 30
billion euros on loan from the ECB, Gonzalez-Robatto said.  The bank is targeting a core Tier 1 ratio, a measure of
financial strength, of 10.6 percent in June to comply with
European Banking Authority requirements and will use retained
profits and other mechanisms such as the conversion of
mandatorily convertible bonds and an exchange of preferred
shares to do so. The bank expects to generate 0.92 percentage
points of capital to help boost its capital ratio under EBA
criteria of 7.41 percent in December, Gonzalez-Robatto said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  