-- Prepare for a Contentious Republican Convention: Jeff Greenfield
-- B y   J e f f   G r e e n f i e l d
-- 2012-02-01T00:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/prepare-for-a-raucous-republican-convention-commentary-by-jeff-greenfield.html
For political junkies, this is the
midwinter of our discontent. With the  Florida  Republican primary
over with, there is more than a month to go before Super
Tuesday, and  the next debate  is three weeks away. That means I
have even less reason for my post-midnight groping for my iPhone
to check the latest polls or campaign Twitter feeds.  So, where to turn for a fix? Here’s one idea: Familiarize
yourself with the  Republican Party ’s rules governing delegate
selection and convention procedure. Yes, I know: This seems like
a subject better suited for C-Span 3. As it happens, though,
these rules could determine the party’s nominee and help shape
the general election campaign.  Consider the 2008 Democratic presidential campaign. The
reason for Barack Obama’s victory over  Hillary Clinton  can be
expressed in one sentence: He won because his campaign
understood that, under Democratic Party rules, big victories in
small states were more important than small victories in big
states.  The contrast with the Republican process was stark.  John McCain  amassed a mountain of delegates under the “winner-take-
all” rules of many big states. He won just more than 50 percent
of New York’s Republican voters, but won  all 101 delegates ; 55
percent of  New Jersey  voters but  all 52 delegates . He barely
beat Mike Huckabee in  Missouri , with a third of the vote, but
won  all 58 delegates .  Lopsided Victories  Democrats, though, treat the process like the cutting of a
cake at a child’s birthday party. They make the split as even as
possible. To win lots of delegates in a Democratic contest, you
need to win a landslide. That’s just what the Obama campaign did
-- targeting caucus states where lopsided victories were easier
to come by than in big-state primaries.  The results: In  Idaho , a  62-point margin  of victory --
13,000 votes -- gave the Obama campaign 15 delegates to
Clinton’s three. In  Kansas ,  74 percent of the votes , an 18,000-
vote margin, yielded Obama a delegate advantage of 23 to nine.
Clinton won the  Ohio  primary  by 200,000 votes , but her 53
percent to Obama’s 45 percent netted her just nine more
delegates. A  200,000 vote victory  in  Pennsylvania  -- a 10-point
margin -- netted Clinton 12 more delegates than Obama.  Do the math: Obama gained more net delegates from Idaho and
Kansas than Clinton did from Ohio and Pennsylvania. Replicated
across the country, Obama’s superior understanding of the
delegate allocation rules explains how he won. (If you had told
any politically savvy observer four years ago that Clinton would
win  New York ,  California , New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Ohio and
Florida, and still lose the nomination, you would have been
asked what you were smoking.)  So, what’s the lesson for this year’s Republican contest?  First,  the calendar . Although February offers little
encouragement to  Newt Gingrich , March holds promise with its
turn to the South, Gingrich’s strongest region. (Voters in seven
Southern states go to the polls in March.)  Ron Paul ’s campaign,
meanwhile, is paying special attention to February’s caucus
states, where intensity matters more than in primary states. (It
takes real conviction to sit through hours of speech-making and
ballot-counting, as opposed to popping in for 10 minutes to
vote.) If Paul is interested in having an impact at the
convention, winning a plurality of delegates in a few states
could matter a great deal.  Second, the winner-take-all approach has largely been
abandoned. What we have instead is a patchwork of rules: Most
states allocate most of their delegates by congressional
district; some have the top two finishers split those delegates;
some give them all to the district winner, but only if he gets
50 percent or more; some use winner-take-all for each district.  Convention Battles  The key: A candidate can pick up a fair share of delegates
in many states by targeting his campaign on a district-by-
district basis. This also means that, statistically at least, it
will be harder for  Mitt Romney  to wrap up the nomination early.  Finally,  the rules  open the door to a contentious
convention, if not a contested one.  Why? Because if there’s sentiment for a fight over a
platform plank, or whether convention rules outlaw winner-take-
all voting, all the dissidents need is 25 percent of the votes
in the respective committees -- a mark the combined anti-Romney
forces might well achieve. Further, if Gingrich wants his name
put in nomination, all he needs is a plurality of delegates --
not a majority -- in five states. He already has that plurality
in  South Carolina  and may yet pick up pluralities in four more
states along the way.  If those adamantly opposed to Romney wind up with this kind
of strength, it means they will have the power to start rules
fights or demand the gold standard be included in the platform.
They may be able to offer their own vice-presidential nominee or
throw the timing of important speeches into chaos.  I may be getting ahead of myself; the convention isn’t
until August. Maybe it’s better to focus on the debate in
 Arizona  in three weeks. I wonder how long it will take for
Gingrich to attack the moderator?  (Jeff Greenfield, who has covered politics for ABC, CBS and
 CNN , is the host of “Need to Know” on PBS and the author of
“ Then Everything Changed : Stunning Alternate Histories of
American Politics.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jeff Greenfield at  hjeph@aol.com .  To contact the editor of this article:
Michael Newman at +1-202-654-7385 or  mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 