-- Q-Cells Shares Soar on One-Step Bondholder Deal: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-02-01T17:11:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/q-cells-shares-soar-on-one-step-bondholder-deal-frankfurt-mover.html
Q-Cells SE (QCE) , once the world’s largest
maker of solar cells, had a record surge in  Frankfurt  trading
after reaching an agreement with bondholders to salvage the
company.  Q-Cells, based in Thalheim, Germany, climbed 40 percent to
46.5 euro cents as of the close in Frankfurt. It was the
steepest one-day gain since the company started trading in 2005.
Q-Cells reached an agreement “in principle” with the main
holders of its 2012, 2014 and 2015 convertible bonds to complete
a financing restructuring in one step after last month seeking
to pursue a two-step transaction.  The restructuring may help save the solar company, which
has plunged to a fraction of its value since first selling
shares more than six years ago. At its  peak , Q-Cells traded as
high as 80.95 euros in December 2007. The bondholders, mainly
institutional investors, will be able to swap their debt for 95
percent of equity, Ina von Spies, a company spokeswoman, said on
a conference call. Holders of the 2012 note will also get a cash
payment of 20 million euros ($26 million), she said.  “If enough Q-Cells bondholders agree, the deal will be
very positive as it means no risk of bankruptcy during 2012 and
no liquidity issues for the next two years,” Katharina Cholewa,
an analyst at WestLB, said today by phone. “However, the upside
for the shares will depend on how much cash the company has left
after this restructuring and when it returns to profitability.”  Insolvency Filings  German solar manufacturers including Q-Cells and  Conergy AG (CGYK) 
are under pressure from Chinese rivals that have boosted
capacity even as international prices slumped. Berlin-based
module maker Solon SE and Solar Millennium AG, with headquarters
in Erlangen, filed for insolvency in December. Conergy, once
 Germany ’s largest solar company, is owned by creditors since
July.  “Q-Cells wins time as a bankruptcy is off the table for at
least this year,” Alla Gorelova, an analyst with Steubing AG,
said by phone from Frankfurt. “That reduces insecurity with
potential customers planning large-scale projects that take
several months to complete and may make it easier for the
company to win orders.”  Apart from raising sales, Q-Cells will have to reduce
solar-cell production costs as it competes with Asian peers,
Gorelova said.  Q-Cells, which forecast operating losses through 2013 on
Jan. 24, has lost more than 10 percent of its value this year.
The bondholders stand to collectively hold 95 percent of the
company’s issued share capital upon completion of the
transaction.  The bondholders agreed to leave “maximum cash” in the
company after an independent review of its medium-term business
plan, Q-Cells said. The solar maker had 304 million euros of
liquidity as of Dec. 31.  Implementing the agreement is subject to shareholder
approval at an extraordinary general meeting, Q-Cells said. They
include  Good Energies , which held about 15 percent as of Jan.
16, Alberta Rohardt, a spokeswoman for Q-Cells, said by e-mail.
The company expects to complete the restructuring in the second
half of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  