-- Rail Bottlenecks Thwart India Efforts to End Blackouts: Freight
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m   a n d   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2012-02-01T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/rail-bottlenecks-thwart-india-efforts-to-end-blackouts-freight.html
India , reliant on coal for more than
half its electricity, is struggling to ease blackouts as delays
in adding railways hinder fuel supplies and discourage investors
from building $36 billion of  power plants .  Many Indian mines are operating at one-third of capacity as
the rail system can’t move more cargo, according to Alok Perti,
secretary at the coal ministry. He didn’t give a precise number.
Shipments from Chhattisgarh and Orissa, among the nation’s
biggest coal-producing states, for instance, mainly use a single
trunk line that also handles passenger services.  “The problem is quite severe,” Perti said Jan. 31. “We
are constantly pushing the railways to expand their network.”  State-controlled  Coal India Ltd. (COAL) , the world’s biggest
producer, has been seeking construction of at least four railway
links for as many as six years, which it has said will ease
congestion and enable a 66 percent increase in output. Concerns
about coal supplies contributed to  Reliance Power Ltd. (RPWR)  and  Adani
Power Ltd. (ADANI)  delaying new power stations, even as the country
contends with a 12 percent shortfall in generating capacity.  “There is no point talking about increasing production if
there are no railway lines to ship the coal,” said Nirmal Chandra Jha, who retired as Coal India’s chairman on Jan. 31.  The company has asked  Indian Railways  to add two dedicated
links in the eastern state of Chhattisgarh. The state is home to
the Gavra mines, which accounts for more than 11 percent of the
nation’s coal output. The miner is also seeking a 93-kilometer
track from Hazaribagh in Jharkhand state and a 52-kilometer link
from Jharsuguda in Orissa, where coal reserves were first
discovered in 1900.  Rail Minister Dinesh Trivedi declined to comment when asked
on Jan. 31 about the likelihood of the new lines being built.  Asia’s Oldest  The railway needs to ease congestion by increasing capacity
on existing lines, possibly by adding more tracks, he said. Coal
accounts for about 45 percent of goods carried by  Indian
Railways , the oldest network in  Asia .  India has  added  only an average 180 kilometers (112 miles)
of railroads every year since gaining independence in 1947,
according to the rail ministry. The nation currently has about
65,000 kilometers of track network. By comparison,  China  plans
to expand its network to 120,000 kilometers from 91,000
kilometers in the five years ending 2015.  India’s coal-hauling bottlenecks have contributed to power
producers asking the government for help in securing more
supplies, said Ashok Khurana, director general of the
Association of Power Producers. The country is the world’s
third-largest coal consumer.  Seven Days’ Fuel  Almost half of India’s 89  thermal power stations  have less
than seven days’ supply of fuel, according to the Central
Electricity Authority, a government agency. Of the facilities,
67 depend entirely on railways for coal shipments.  “It’s a critical situation for us,” said Rajeev Ranjan,
chairman and managing director of Tamil Nadu Generation and
Distribution Corp., a government-controlled utility that
supplies power in the southern state. “We are working with
railways closely and these infrastructure bottlenecks need to be
improved.”  India is planning to invest 14 trillion rupees ($283
billion) by 2020 to add railway capacity and modernize its
network as  economic growth  and rising incomes spur travel and
cargo demand. The nation also intends to build a dedicated 3,300
kilometers freight rail network that will connect eastern and
western regions by 2017.  100 Gigawatts  The government also wants to add 100 gigawatts of power
generating capacity by March 2017 to ease blackouts. The nation
has 186.7 gigawatts, while power producers have mothballed plans
to add 42 gigawatts.  The country will need 696 million tons of coal in the year
ending March against a projected domestic supply of 559 million
tons, according to estimates by the Planning Commission, an
agency that designs five-year economic and social programs in
India. Supplies from  Australia ,  Indonesia  and  South Africa  may
be needed to meet as much as 10 percent of demand.  NMDC Ltd. (NMDC) , India’s largest iron-ore producer, also plans to
acquire two coking coal mines in Mozambique and  Russia  to feed
planned steel plants in India, Chairman Narendra Kumar Nanda
said on Jan. 5.  Still, ports are also complaining about a shortage of rail
capacity, which is hindering their ability to handle imports,
Shipping Minister G K Vasan said Jan. 19. He has written to the
rail ministry about the issue, he said.  “Power plants, steel plants, cement plants, ports, all
have connectivity problems,” said Parvesh Minocha, managing
director, transport division at Feedback Infrastructure Services
Pvt., which advises on construction and infrastructure projects.
“Railways have been a disappointing story throughout.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net ;
Rajesh Kumar Singh in New Delhi at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  