-- Deutsche Boerse-NYSE, Gupta, Muni Bonds: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-02-01T16:32:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/rajat-gupta-jc-flowers-muni-bonds-full-tilt-poker-compliance.html
European Union regulators vetoed a
plan by  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  and  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  to create the
world’s biggest exchange after concluding that the merger would
hurt competition.  The deal would have led to a “near-monopoly” in European
exchange-traded derivatives, the European Commission said in an
e-mailed statement today. “Any efficiencies would not be
substantial enough to outweigh the harm to customers caused by
the merger.”  Deutsche Boerse agreed to acquire its New York rival in a
deal valued at $9.5 billion when it was announced last February.
Since then, the value has plummeted to about $7.3 billion as
Deutsche Boerse’s shares fell. The companies appealed directly
to commission President Jose Barroso last month to try to
salvage their merger, arguing that a ban would harm European
exchanges and drive business to other parts of the world.  “The EU Commission’s decision is based on an
unrealistically narrow definition of the market that does no
justice to the global nature of competition in the market for
derivatives. We therefore regard the decision as wrong,”
Deutsche Boerse said in an e-mailed statement.  The rejection of the merger is the commission’s fourth
since 2004, when it overhauled its rules for reviewing deals.  Antitrust concerns have thwarted other exchange tie-ups
around the world.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  abandoned an unsolicited bid for
NYSE Euronext after the U.S. Justice Department threatened to
sue.  Singapore Exchange Ltd.’s (SGX)  $8.8 billion bid for ASX Ltd.
collapsed after Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan said the deal
wasn’t in the national interest.  Deutsche Boerse’s acquisition of NYSE Euronext would have
put more than 90 percent of Europe’s exchange-traded derivatives
market and about 30 percent of stock trading in the hands of one
company. Deutsche Boerse’s Eurex is the region’s biggest
derivatives exchange, while NYSE’s Liffe is the second-largest.  NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Boerse had offered to sell
overlapping businesses and give rivals access to post-trade
services as they struggled to convince regulators that the
merger wouldn’t stifle competition in derivatives and clearing.
The commission told the companies in December that the
concessions didn’t go far enough, two people familiar with the
discussions said.  Today, both exchanges said they will focus on their
standalone strategies and are negotiating to terminate their
merger. NYSE said it will resume a $550 million stock repurchase
program after it reports earnings on Feb. 10 and after the
agreement is formally terminated. Deutsche Boerse reports
earnings Feb. 13.  Compliance Action  Ex-Credit Suisse Workers Said to Face Charges Over CDO Pricing  Ex- Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  workers will be charged with
intentionally mismarking prices of collateralized debt
obligations and other securities, a person familiar with the
matter said.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission was also
involved in the probe, said the person, who didn’t want to be
named because the investigation isn’t public. Fewer than five
people will be charged and Credit Suisse won’t be prosecuted,
the person said.  Jerika Richardson, a spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara, declined to comment yesterday on whether
any charges would be filed.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, and
Victoria Harmon, a Credit Suisse spokeswoman, also declined to
comment.  On Feb. 19, 2008, Switzerland’s second-largest bank made a
surprise announcement that it would take writedowns on asset-
backed securities after finding “mismarkings” by a group of
traders. The Zurich-based bank said a month later it would write
down $2.65 billion after an internal review found the pricing
errors on residential mortgage-backed bonds and collateralized
debt obligations were made intentionally “by a small number”
of traders who were then fired or suspended.  At the time the pricing errors were found, the Swiss bank
hadn’t disclosed the names of the traders responsible.  The planned filing of charges against the former employees
was reported earlier by Reuters.  U.S. Expands Charges Against Gupta in Superseding Indictment  Rajat Gupta, the former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director
accused of giving inside information to fund manager  Raj
Rajaratnam , faces new allegations he passed tips about earnings
of Goldman Sachs in 2007 and  Procter & Gamble Co . in 2009.  In a superseding indictment filed yesterday in federal
court in Manhattan, the U.S. broadened its description of the
insider-trading scheme, saying it began in March 2007 not in
2008 as alleged in October. Prosecutors also said Gupta tipped
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Rajaratnam about Goldman Sachs’s
first quarter 2007 earnings and, while at Galleon’s offices,
listened to a Goldman Sachs board meeting where earnings were
disclosed.  Gupta, 63, who also led McKinsey & Co. and was a  Procter &
Gamble Co . director, denies wrongdoing. He faces as long as 20
years in prison if convicted of any securities fraud charge and
as long as five years if convicted of conspiracy, according to
the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara. He also
faces a fine of as much as $5 million, prosecutors said.  Rajaratnam, who was convicted by a jury last year, is
serving an 11-year prison term.  Gupta’s lawyer, Gary Naftalis, didn’t immediately return a
voice-mail message left at his office seeking comment on the
revised indictment.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  U.S. Sweep to Rein in Identity Theft Targets 105, IRS Says  A nationwide sweep to rein in identity theft and tax-refund
fraud targeted 105 people in 23 states, leading to 939 criminal
charges, including 58 arrests and 10 guilty pleas, according to
the  Internal Revenue Service .  The sweep took place last week and involved 150 visits to
check-cashing facilities to ensure the businesses didn’t
facilitate fraud and identity theft, the IRS said in a statement
yesterday.  Identity theft in the past year has been on the rise with
thieves stealing Social Security numbers, some stored in
hospital and school databases, said Steven Miller, the IRS’s
deputy commissioner for services and enforcement. The stolen
numbers are used to file false tax returns for refunds, he said.  In the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30, the IRS stopped
260,000 fraudulent returns related to identity theft, protecting
$1.4 billion in refunds, Miller said.  The U.S. initiated 187 investigations into identity theft
in 2009 compared with 224 in 2010, according to the IRS.  JC Flowers Ex-U.K. Chief Won’t Be Investigated by London Police  London police chose not to investigate JC Flowers & Co.’s
former U.K. chief executive officer after regulators fined him
for faking invoices to take money from a company the private
equity firm invested in.  The U.K. finance regulator yesterday fined Ravi Shankar
Sinha 2.87 million pounds ($4.5 million) and banned him from
working in finance in the country. Sinha defrauded a company in
which New York-based JC Flowers invested 1.37 million pounds by
submitting falsified invoices, lying to the company CEO and
saying the firm had authorized him to charge advisory fees, the
FSA said.  JC Flowers told the police that, given their reimbursement
of the unidentified company’s losses, there was no victim that
had suffered and there was no reason to prosecute when the
Financial Services Authority was handling the matter, according
to two people familiar with the matter who asked not to be
identified because they weren’t authorized to speak. The
private-equity firm had reported the incident to the FSA and
cooperated with the civil investigation, the regulator said.  “Had the police chosen to launch a criminal investigation,
then JC Flowers would have cooperated fully, and indeed would
today cooperate with any investigation should the police decide
to mount an inquiry,” Michael Harrison, an outside spokesman
for the firm at Brunswick Group, said in a phone interview.  The City of London Police said in a statement that it
received details of the case from the FSA and, after discussions
with the affected company, decided not to prosecute Sinha.
Because the police never opened a formal probe, JC Flowers
didn’t obstruct an investigation, the people said.  FSA spokesman Joseph Eyre declined to comment.  Brothers Reaped $17 Million From Illegal Short Sales, SEC Says  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission accused two
brothers of reaping more than $17 million from improper short
sales of stocks without having borrowed the securities they were
betting against.  Jeffrey Wolfson and Robert Wolfson made so-called naked
short sales from July 2006 to July 2007 in stocks including
 Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. (CMG) ,  Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. (FFH)  and
NYSE Group, the SEC said in an order filed yesterday.  In a short sale, an investor borrows shares and sells them
with the goal of profiting from a price decline by repurchasing
at a lower price and repaying the loan. SEC rules require
sellers to locate shares before selling them short, and require
that the borrowed securities be returned by a specified date.  Michael Wise, an attorney for Jeffrey Wolfson, and Thomas
McCabe, a lawyer for Robert Wolfson, declined to comment.  Three UBS Clients Accused of Hiding Offshore Money From IRS  Three ex- UBS AG (UBSN)  clients, including two who ran venture
capital firms, were indicted on charges of hiding millions of
dollars in assets from U.S. tax authorities through the use of
secret offshore accounts.  Stephen M. Kerr and Michael Quiel, who separately ran
venture capital firms, were charged in an indictment made public
Monday in federal court in Phoenix. A former San Diego attorney,
Christopher M. Rusch, was arrested Jan. 29 in Miami after being
expelled from Panama at the request of the U.S. government.  Kerr, who ran CCN Worldwide Inc., had accounts worth more
than $5.6 million in 2007 that he failed to report to the
Internal Revenue Service, according to a Justice Department
statement and the Dec. 8 indictment.  Quiel, who ran Legend Advisory Corp., had accounts valued
at more than $2.6 million in 2007 that he also failed to report
to the IRS, according to prosecutors and the indictment. He was
arrested in the Phoenix area.  Rusch had signature authority over secret accounts held by
Kerr and Quiel, and helped facilitate their transactions,
prosecutors said. Rusch also had secret offshore accounts in the
names of others at UBS and a Panamanian bank, prosecutors said.  Kerr, Quiel and Rusch were charged with conspiring to
defraud the IRS. Kerr and Quiel were charged with filing false
tax returns in 2007 and 2008 and with failing to file Reports of
Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts for those years.  “I expect that my client is going to vigorously defend
himself,” Michael Lipman, an attorney for Rusch with Duane
Morris LLP, said in a telephone interview. “We expect to be
exonerated at the appropriate time.”  The case is United States v. Kerr, 11-cr-02385, U.S.
District Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix).  Compliance Policy  Citigroup Opposes Applying Dodd-Frank to Municipal-Bond Market  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the second-largest U.S. municipal-bond
underwriter last year, says applying the Dodd-Frank law to the
market for state and local debt would raise costs for borrowers.  Municipal securities dealers such as Citigroup make it
easier for investors to trade in the $3.7 trillion municipal
market, cutting state and local borrowing costs, Citigroup’s
Howard Marsh, a managing director, said in the Jan. 27 filing
with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., which is writing rules
to implement the 2010 law. The Volcker Rule of Dodd-Frank, which
limits banks in their ability to trade for their own accounts,
would apply to some, but not all, types of municipal bonds.  Citigroup asked that all types of municipal securities,
including tender-option bond programs, be exempt from the
Volcker rule. Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for New
York-based Citigroup, declined to comment on the filing, which
was also sent to other regulatory agencies.  The Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, an industry
self-regulating organization that governs the muni market, asked
regulators to exempt all such debt from the Volcker proposal on
proprietary trading, the board said in a statement. Expanding
the exemption will help prevent a “bifurcation” of the market,
the board said in a letter sent to the U.S. Comptroller of the
Currency, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Federal
Reserve and the FDIC.  EU Fails to Get Deal on Clearing Law for OTC Derivatives  European Union officials and lawmakers failed to broker a
deal on rules to force trading of some over-the-counter
derivatives through clearinghouses in a bid to safeguard
financial markets, according to Chantal Hughes, a spokeswoman
for the European Commission.  Officials will discuss the matter again next week, she
said.  Courts  Full Tilt Units, Executives Win Civil RICO Suit Dismissal  Units of Full Tilt Poker and 10 executives won dismissal of
civil claims filed under the federal Racketeer Influenced and
Corrupt Organizations Act.  The lawsuit was filed in June by Full Tilt poker players
seeking to recoup, as a group, about $150 million they claim
they lost when the Ireland-based Internet poker site and others
like it were shut by U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in New York.
Federal prosecutors accused the sites in criminal cases of
violating laws barring online gambling.  The shutdown date, April 15, 2011, came to be known in the
online gambling world as “Black Friday,” U.S. District Judge
Leonard B. Sand said in his ruling Jan. 30 rejecting the
players’ racketeering claims as “too attenuated” to proceed.  “It remains unclear whether the direct cause of the
plaintiffs’ injuries was the decision by the U.S. Attorney’s
office to temporarily shut down the Full Tilt poker website and
seize the company’s assets,” Sand said, “or was instead as
plaintiffs’ conversion allegations suggest, the subsequent
decision by one or more of the defendants to halt player
withdrawals.”  Full Tilt, which was named as a defendant in the case, was
not among the five affiliates, which included Full Tilt’s
software developer and its site operator, that asked for
dismissal of the racketeering claim.  Sand allowed the players’ conversion claim to move forward
against three of the five Full Tilt units seeking dismissal and
said the players could amend their claims against the other two
entities.  The case is Segal v. Bitar, 11-cv-4521, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Ex-FrontPoint Manager Skowron Calls Morgan Stanley No Victim  Former FrontPoint Partners LLC fund manager Joseph F.
“Chip” Skowron, sentenced to five years in prison for an
insider-trading scheme, says that  Morgan Stanley (MS)  isn’t a victim
of his crimes and doesn’t deserve restitution.  Skowron, 42, who began serving his term at the Federal
Correctional Institution Schuylkill in Pennsylvania last month,
said that Morgan Stanley shouldn’t collect any funds under the
Mandatory Victims Restitution Act.  He pleaded guilty to getting illegal tips from a former
adviser for  Human Genome Sciences Inc. (HGSI)  that trials of the
company’s hepatitis C drug were being halted. FrontPoint sold
its stock before the announcement was made public, avoiding $30
million in losses, the U.S. said.  Morgan Stanley, which acquired FrontPoint in 2006 and spun
it off in February, has submitted the largest restitution
request to the court, saying it should be paid $37.4 million
after sustaining “very substantial damages” as a result of
Skowron’s conduct.  Morgan Stanley said he collected his salary while “acting
as the classic faithless servant, engaging in and concealing his
crime.” The funds sought to include at least $32 million the
New York-based bank holding company paid Skowron during the
four-years he committed his crimes, it said.  Skowron’s lawyer, Joshua Epstein, disputed Morgan Stanley’s
assertion Jan. 30 in a court filing.  “Morgan Stanley is not a victim,” he said, “because its
purported losses were not directly and proximately caused by the
conduct underlying the offense of conviction.”  U.S. District Judge Deborah Batts in New York, presiding
over a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission suit against
Skowron, ordered him to pay $38.2 million, which includes
disgorgement, interest and civil penalties. She signed the order
on Nov. 16, the SEC said.  Another federal judge in Manhattan, Denise Cote, who is
presiding over the criminal case, said in November that she
would rule later on how much restitution Skowron must pay his
victims.  Matt Burkhard, a spokesman for Morgan Stanley, declined to
comment on the filing. Peter White, a lawyer for FrontPoint,
didn’t return a call seeking comment.  The case is U.S. v. Skowron, 11-cr-699, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Lender Processing Seeks to Dismiss Nevada AG Complaint  Lender Processing Services Inc. (LPS)  asked a court to throw out
a consumer fraud lawsuit by the Nevada attorney general that
accuses the company of falsifying foreclosure documents.  The complaint by Nevada Attorney General Catherine Cortez
Masto fails to allege any document executed by subsidiaries was
incorrect or caused any borrower financial harm, Lender
Processing Services said in a statement yesterday.  The state’s claims “are a collection of suppositions,
legal conclusions and inflammatory labels,” the company said in
a court filing. The document couldn’t be immediately verified in
court records.  Lender Processing Services, based in Jacksonville, Florida,
provides mortgage-processing services and says about half of all
U.S. mortgages by dollar volume are serviced using its loan-
servicing platform.  Nevada sued the company in December, claiming that it
engaged in a pattern of “falsifying, forging and/or
fraudulently executing” foreclosure documents, requiring
employees to execute or notarize as many as 4,000 foreclosure-
related documents a day, according to a statement from the
attorney general. Lender Processing Services also demanded
kickbacks from foreclosure firms, the office said.  The case is Nevada v. Lender Processing Services Inc., A-
11-653289-B, District Court, Clark County, Nevada (Las Vegas).  DZ Bank Sues JPMorgan and HSBC Over Mortgage Securities  DZ Bank AG (DZBK)  sued  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,
accusing the banks of making false and misleading statements in
connection with the sale of residential mortgage-backed
securities.  DZ Bank, Germany’s largest cooperative lender, sued
 JPMorgan (JPM)  in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan on Jan.
30, saying it bought about $85 million of the securities based
on flawed offering materials. DZ Bank filed a similar suit
yesterday against HSBC, Europe’s biggest bank, in the same
court, over $122 million worth of the investments.  “Plaintiff did not know the true facts regarding
defendants’ misrepresentations and omissions in the offering
materials, and justifiably relied on those misrepresentations
and omissions,” Frankfurt-based DZ Bank said in court
documents.  Pools of home loans securitized into bonds were a central
part of the housing bubble that helped send the U.S. into the
biggest recession since the 1930s. The housing market collapsed,
and the crisis swept up lenders and investment banks as the
market for the securities evaporated.  Tasha Pelio, a spokeswoman for New York-based JPMorgan,
declined to comment on DZ Bank’s lawsuit. Neil Brazil, a
spokesman for London-based HSBC, said the company doesn’t
comment on pending litigation.  The JPMorgan case is Deutsche Zentral-Genossenschaftsbank
AG v. JPMorgan Chase & Co, 650293/2012, New York State Supreme
Court (Manhattan). The HSBC case is Deutsche Zentral-
Genossenschaftsbank  AG v. HSBC North America Holdings Inc.,
650303/2012, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  Second Trial in Foreign Bribe Sting Case Ends With Hung Jury  The second trial in the biggest U.S. prosecution of
individuals accused of foreign bribery ended with acquittals and
a hung jury.  U.S. District Judge Richard Leon in Washington yesterday
declared a mistrial after jurors said they couldn’t agree on
charges alleging three security industry executives planned to
make payments to a federal agent posing as a representative of
the west African country of Gabon.  The ruling came one day after the same jury acquitted two
others in the case, including a former deputy assistant director
of the U.S. Secret Service.  The three remaining defendants in the trial were John
Mushriqui and his sister, Jeana Mushriqui, and Marc Morales.
Each was charged with two to three counts of violating the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which has a maximum penalty of
five years in prison. They pleaded not guilty.  Laura Sweeney, a Justice Department spokeswoman, said she
couldn’t immediately comment on the ruling or whether
prosecutors plan to retry Morales and the Mushriquis.  Lawyers for the three defendants didn’t immediately return
e-mail messages seeking comment on the case.  The trial, which opened Sept. 28, was the second in a 22-
defendant kickback conspiracy case stemming from a fake $15
million weapons deal. A trial of four others arrested in the
sting ended in a mistrial in July after a jury failed to agree
on a verdict.  The case is U.S. v. Goncalves, 09-cr-00335, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  Speeches, Testimony and Interviews  Gensler Says CFTC Will Finish Swap Rules in 2012  Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chairman Gary Gensler
spoke about about his agency’s implementation of new rules on
swaps and derivatives, along with William Cohan, author of
“Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World”
and a Bloomberg View columnist, at the John C. Bogle Legacy
Forum hosted by Bloomberg Link in New York.  To hear the remarks, click here.  CFTC Should Have Power to Resolve Futures Brokers, O’Malia Says  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission should have
its own authority to put futures brokers into insolvency as part
of additional powers following the collapse of MF Global
Holdings Ltd., Commissioner  Scott O’Malia  said yesterday.  Congress should grant the powers to the CFTC, the main U.S.
derivatives regulator, O’Malia, one of two Republicans on the
five-member commission, said at a New York Law School
conference. O’Malia said he doesn’t support the concept of
setting up an additional insurance fund to resolve failed firms.  The agency’s recent rulemakings to improve customer
protection in derivatives markets aren’t comprehensive efforts
to understand what went wrong at MF Global, O’Malia said.  “I’m puzzled by the commission’s attempts to regain public
confidence through new regulation. I am particularly puzzled
because the commission’s most recent rulemakings don’t even
address MF Global,” he said in the speech. “I am not aware of
any evidence that the MF Global shortfall was related to
investments of customer funds.”  The agency on Dec. 5 unanimously approved restrictions on
how customers’ funds can be invested by brokers in a measure
dubbed the “MF Rule.” On Jan. 11, the CFTC voted 4-1, with
O’Malia in support, to complete regulations for the segregation
of customers’ funds in swaps markets.  Republicans Focus on Costs of U.S. Consumer Bureau Rules  Republican lawmakers yesterday escalated their criticism of
the U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau over estimates
that its first rule would require almost 7.7 million employee
hours of work to comply.  Senator Richard Shelby, the top Republican on the Senate
Banking Committee, took aim at a rule published Jan. 20 on
remittances, charging it is inconsistent with the agency’s
stated goal of lowering costs for consumers.  “The bureau’s remittance transfers rule, however, suggests
that lowering costs is not high on its priorities,” Shelby,
from Alabama, said at a hearing with  Richard Cordray , the
bureau’s director.  Cordray countered that the new rule would cost 25 cents per
hundred dollars of remittances, which are cash transfers across
international boundaries.  “It’s a small price to pay that there have never been any
consumer protections for people who send money overseas,”
Cordray said. “These people deserve consumer protections.”  The consumer bureau has attempted to allay concerns about
costs, particularly the regulatory burden on smaller community
banks and credit unions. At a hearing in Congress last week,
Cordray said the bureau was seeking public input on changes to
the remittance rule to ease the impact on smaller firms.  To hear the testimony, click here.  EU Would Benefit From Australia’s Flexible CO2 Cap, Lobby Says  The European Union carbon market, where prices have plunged
by half in the past year, should consider installing a more
flexible cap such as that proposed in Australia, said the Carbon
Market Institute.  Prices in the EU program, the world’s biggest greenhouse
gas market by traded volume, dropped as the region’s sovereign-
debt crisis exacerbated an oversupply through this year and
beyond. The cap for 2020 was set in 2008. Under the Australian
market, the annual supply of allowances will be set five years
in advance.  Stagnant economic production and demand has prompted
criticism that the EU’s cap isn’t protecting the climate as much
as it should, said Mike Tournier, executive director of the
Carbon Market Institute, a Melbourne-based  lobby group  that
promotes emissions trading. “There are obviously market and
environmental benefits of having a mechanism to review the cap
and lower that over a period of time,” Tournier said Jan. 30 in
a London interview.  The costs of tightening the EU’s carbon-reduction target
are less than previously estimated, an analysis by the European
Commission, the bloc’s regulatory arm, showed Jan. 30. A 30
percent goal would involve cutting greenhouse gases by 25
percent in the bloc, and using imported emissions-reduction
credits to account for the remaining 5 percent.  Comings and Goings  Avon Executive Charles Cramb Departs Amid Bribery Probe  Avon Products Inc. (AVP)  said Charles Cramb, vice chairman of its
developed market group, left the world’s biggest door-to-door
cosmetics seller amid the company’s internal investigation into
bribery.  Cramb, who had previously been chief financial officer,
departed in a “personnel action” taken Jan. 29, Avon said in a
regulatory filing on Jan. 30. No “final determinations” have
been made in the investigation, nor have Cramb’s separation
terms been decided, the New York-based company said.  The company is investigating potential violations of the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which outlaws bribing foreign
officials. Avon also said in October that the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission is probing the company’s foreign
operations and its dealings with analysts.  Cramb is the most senior executive so far to leave in
connection with the internal probe, which began in 2008 with an
investigation into allegations of improper travel, entertainment
and other expenses at Avon’s Chinese operations.  Subsequently, the company fired four executives including
S.K. Kao, the general manager, and Jimmy Beh, finance chief of
the China unit. Avon later said it was expanding the probe to
other developing countries.  Last month, Avon announced that Chief Executive Officer
Andrea Jung was stepping down. Jung, 53, who had run Avon since
1999, will remain chairman and work with the board to recruit a
replacement, the company said Dec. 13. Jung recommended
splitting the CEO and chairman roles “to better address the
company’s scale and opportunities,” Jennifer Vargas, a
spokeswoman for Avon, said in an interview in December.  Vargas declined to comment beyond the filing. Cramb didn’t
immediately respond to a voice-mail message left for him at
home.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 