-- Rand Advances to Three-Month High on PMI, Germany, Portugal Debt Sales
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-02-01T15:17:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/rand-falls-as-u-s-data-misses-estimates-offsetting-chinese-pmi-expansion.html
The rand rose to a three-month high
after a measure of manufacturing in  Africa ’s biggest economy
beat analysts’ estimates and debt sales in  Germany  and Portugal
bolstered confidence.  South Africa’s currency gained as much as 1.2 percent to
7.7172 per dollar from yesterday’s New York close, the strongest
level since Oct. 31. It traded 0.9 percent higher at 7.7371 as
of 4 p.m. in Johannesburg. Against the euro, the rand increased
0.2 percent to 10.1967, the most on a closing basis since
September 14.  The country’s purchasing managers’  index  rebounded to a
seven-month high in January, a sign that the recovery in
manufacturing may be strengthening, index compiler Kagiso Tiso
Holdings said. Germany received bids for more than its maximum
target at a bond sale today, while  Portugal ’s borrowing costs of
three- and six-month bills declined.  “We view the expansion in the PMI as rand-positive,”
Tebogo Mosepele, an analyst at Standard Bank Group Ltd., said in
e-mailed comments. “The data may encourage rand bulls as it
bodes well for South Africa’s growth prospects.”  The seasonally-adjusted index rose to 53.2 from 49.4 in
December, Johannesburg-based Kagiso said in an e-mailed
statement today. The median estimate of four economists surveyed
by Bloomberg was 50.2. A number above 50 indicates an expansion
in factory output.  The euro, which buys about 30 percent of South Africa’s
exports, strengthened against the dollar for the first time in
three days after a purchasing managers’ index rose more than
analysts’ estimates in January, signaling  Europe ’s economy is
stabilizing.  Bonds Advance  “Some of the risk and liquidity barometers continue to
improve, and as they improve so general levels of  risk aversion 
will subside,”  George Glynos , an economist at Johannesburg-
based ETM Analytics, wrote in e-mailed comments today. “All of
this should lend a bullish tone to the rand.”  South Africa’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 advanced for a
second day, driving the yield down three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 7.71 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  