-- Treasury Plans $72 Billion Debt as Negative Yield Sale Seen
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-02-01T16:04:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/treasury-plans-72-billion-debt-as-negative-yield-sale-seen-2-.html
The U.S. Treasury Department said it
plans to sell $72 billion in notes and bonds at next week’s
quarterly refunding, while a Wall Street advisory panel urged
the government to allow negative yields at bill auctions.  The government intends to auction $32 billion in 3-year
notes on Feb. 7, $24 billion in 10-year notes on Feb. 8 and $16
billion in 30-year bonds on Feb. 9. The amount is unchanged from
the last quarter and the sales will raise about $22.4 billion in
new cash.  “In the coming weeks there will be a seasonal increase in
borrowing needs ahead of the April 2012 tax season,” the
Treasury said in a statement today. “Treasury plans to address
this seasonal borrowing need through increases in regular bill
auction sizes and cash management bills.”  An accelerating economy is boosting  tax revenue , helping
the administration of President  Barack Obama  control the
government’s budget deficit. The nonpartisan  Congressional
Budget Office  said yesterday it expects the gap may narrow to
$1.1 trillion this fiscal year, down from $1.3 trillion last
year.  The U.S. Treasury Department’s borrowing advisory committee
“unanimously recommended that the Treasury Department allow for
negative yield auction results as soon as logistically
practical,” referring to bill auctions, according to a report
released today.  Market Function  “There was a lengthy discussion regarding the bid-to-cover
ratios at recent Treasury bill auctions. It was broadly agreed
that flooring interest rates at zero, or capping issuance
proceeds at par, was prohibiting proper market function,”
according to the report. The report from the Treasury Borrowing
Advisory Committee, known as TBAC, was dated yesterday.  A Treasury official who briefed reporters on condition of
not being named said a decision on negative yield auctions could
be made as soon as May.  The advisory committee also reported that it is unanimously
in favor of Treasury issuing floating-rate notes. The Treasury
official said that a decision on that matter may also be made by
May.  Bid-to-cover ratios at auctions of U.S. Treasury securities
have been “very strong,” said  Mary Miller , the Treasury
Department’s assistant secretary for financial markets.  Speaking at a press briefing in Washington today, she said
she sees “unshaken faith” for U.S. Treasuries, among both
domestic and international investors.  The Treasury said in today’s written statement that it
plans to gradually increase gross issuance of Treasury
Inflation-Protected Securities, known as TIPS. The majority of
the increase in the TIPS issuance will “likely occur in the 5-
and 10-year tenors,” Treasury said.  Over the past two years, Treasury has been increasing TIPS
issuance, accelerating the frequency of auctions and moving 20-
year TIPS to 30-year TIPS, the Treasury said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Louis in  Washington  at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net 
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 chopkins@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  