-- Treasury 10-Year Note Yield Rises From Four-Month Low on Factory Data Gain
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-02-01T22:10:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/treasury-five-year-yield-is-one-basis-point-from-low-on-outlook-for-growth.html
Treasuries dropped, pushing 10-year
note yields up from almost a four-month low, as U.S.
manufacturing expanded in January at the fastest pace since
June, crimping demand for the safety of government debt.  The benchmark note yield  rose  for the first time in six
days as speculation Greek bondholders negotiating a debt
restructuring may get a payment tied to a revival in economic
growth fueled buying of riskier assets. The U.S. announced it
will sell $72 billion in notes and bonds next week. Employers
added 145,000 jobs last month, according to a Bloomberg survey
of economists before a Labor Department report on Feb. 3.  “There’s still a little bit of optimism on the Greek deal
we keep hearing about,” said James Combias, New York-based head
of Treasury trading at Mizuho Securities USA Inc., one of 21
primary dealers that trade Treasuries with the Federal Reserve.
“We have the refunding next week that people are starting to
think about. You’ll see people looking to lighten up and not run
the risk of a possible stronger employment number in front of
supply next week.”  Yields on 10-year notes increased three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 1.83 percent at 4:59 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The yield fell to 1.8
percent yesterday, the lowest since Oct. 4. The 2 percent
securities maturing in November 2021 fell 1/4, or $2.50 per
$1,000 face amount, to 101 17/32.  Historic Level  The yields slid to a record low 1.67 percent on Sept. 23.
Five-year yields increased two basis points to 0.72 percent
today after dropping to a record low 0.6981 percent yesterday.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 1 percent.  Volatility in the Treasury market is at an eight-month low
with the Fed pledging last week to keep borrowing costs at
record lows through 2014. Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s  MOVE
index (MOVE) , which measures price swings based on options, fell
yesterday to 72.1, the least since May 31 and less than the
five-year average of 111.8.  Swap spreads narrowed, indicating growing demand for
higher-yielding assets versus sovereign debt. The  difference 
between the two-year swap fixed rate and the yield on similar-
maturity Treasuries touched 26.5 basis points today, the lowest
level since August. Investors use swaps to exchange fixed and
floating interest-rate obligations.  Debt Sales  The Treasury announced it will sell $32 billion in three-
year notes, $24 billion in 10-year debt and $16 billion in bonds
on three consecutive days beginning Feb. 7. The sizes are the
same sold in each refunding month since November 2010. Quarterly
refundings are held each February, May, August and November.  The auctions will raise $22.4 billion of new cash as
maturing securities held by the public total $49.6 billion.  “We have supply considerations,” said  Brian Edmonds , head
of  interest rates  at Cantor Fitzgerald LP in New York, one of 21
primary dealers that trade with the  Federal Reserve . “We may
see more concessions.”  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  said recent
actions by central banks provide assurances that short and
intermediate bond yields won’t change, though any potential for
price appreciation is limited.  “Monetary and fiscal excesses carry with them explicit
costs,” Gross wrote. “My intent really is to alert you, the
reader, to the significant costs that may be ahead for a global
economy and financial marketplace still functioning under the
assumption that cheap and abundant central bank credit is always
a positive dynamic.”  Term Premium  A Fed  measure  of perceived risk associated with extending
debt maturities, the so-called term premium, tumbled to negative
0.79 percent yesterday, the most expensive level ever. The gauge
rose to negative 0.77 percent today. A negative reading
represents overvalued levels and indicates investors are
demanding premiums below what’s considered fair value.  The Fed purchased $1.75 billion of Treasuries due August
2022 to May 2030 as part of its program to replace $400 billion
of short-term debt in its portfolio with longer-term Treasuries
in an effort to reduce borrowing costs further and counter
rising risks of a recession.  The Treasury Borrowing Advisory Committee unanimously
recommended that the government allow for its auctions of bills
to price at negative yields “as soon as logistically
practical,” according to the group’s Jan. 31 report to Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner , which was released today.  Zero Rates  The 13-member committee, which includes representatives
from five primary dealer firms as well as investment companies
including BlackRock Inc. and Pimco, said “that flooring
interest rates at zero, or capping issuance proceeds at par, was
prohibiting proper market function.”  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s U.S. manufacturing
index rose to 54.1 in January from 53.1 in December, the Tempe,
Arizona-based group’s data showed today. Fifty is the dividing
line between growth and contraction, and the median forecast in
a Bloomberg News survey called for an increase to 54.5.
Estimates of the 80 economists surveyed ranged from 53 to 56.  Treasuries briefly pared losses earlier as companies added
170,000 workers in January, according to Roseland, New Jersey-
based ADP Employer Services. The median projections of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for an advance of
182,000. The increase followed a revised 292,000 rise the prior
month that was less than previously reported.  A Labor Department report Feb. 3 is forecast to show the
U.S. added 145,000 jobs, according to 81 economists in a
separate survey, compared with 200,000 the previous month.  The  unemployment rate  is forecast to remain steady 8.5
percent, economists said.  “People are lightening up ahead of the nonfarm payrolls,”
said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, which oversees $12 billion
in Fixed income assets. “The ADP number was in line with
expectations and speaks toward a decent, but not a great payroll
for Friday.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  