-- Lawmakers Fault EPA in Fracking Hearing Delayed by Arrest
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-02-01T22:14:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/republicans-criticize-u-s-epa-research-on-fracking-in-wyoming.html
The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency released 622 documents related to its study of water
contamination tied to hydraulic fracturing in Pavillion,
 Wyoming , as Republican lawmakers criticized the findings.  The discussion over Wyoming took place in a Capitol Hill
building where Josh Fox, the maker of the anti-fracking
documentary “ Gasland ,” was arrested before the hearing began.
Fox was trying to record the hearing, which the committee
Republican leadership said requires prior accreditation.  The EPA  documents  include sampling data and raw findings
from laboratories. The agency also said that results from the
study, which found elevated levels of benzene and said the
chemicals found were consistent with those used in fracking,
shouldn’t be used to judge the safety of fracking in
 Pennsylvania  or other states on the Marcellus Shale formation,
where the geography is different.  “Our analysis is limited to the particular geologic
conditions in the Pavillion  gas field ,” Jim Martin, the EPA
administrator for the region that covers Wyoming, testified
today at a subcommittee hearing of the House Science Committee.  Spoiled Water  Environmental groups say fracking, in which millions of
gallons of chemically treated water are forced underground to
shatter rock and let gas flow, is a threat to drinking-water
supplies. The EPA’s draft report on groundwater contamination in
Pavillion, about 230 miles (370 kilometers) northeast of  Salt
Lake City , was the first to link the drilling technique to
spoiling water. The EPA has moved to establish a peer-review
panel to examine its findings.  The EPA is waiting for information from  Encana Corp. (ECA) , which
has 123 wells in that area, on the water samples the company
took at the same time as the EPA, Martin testified. Encana has
criticized the EPA’s results, and said the agency didn’t take
into account naturally occurring chemicals.  Representative Andy Harris of  Maryland , the Republican
chairman of the Energy and Environment subcommittee of the House
Science Committee, criticized Martin and the EPA, saying that
the study of groundwater contamination was an example of
“politics trumping policy and advocacy trumping science.”  Arrest of Fox  “While I am pleased that the EPA posted 622 documents last
night, it is unfortunate that this transparency appears to only
have been compelled by the calling of a congressional oversight
hearing,” Harris said.  The committee hearing was delayed about a half an hour as
lawmakers debated the arrest of Fox, and what Democratic
Representative  Brad Miller  of  North Carolina  said was the
refusal to allow another film crew into the hearing room. The
committee rules say only accredited media are permitted to film
hearings, Harris said. Democrats failed in a party-line vote to
delay the hearing until the filmmakers could gain accreditation.  “I am within my First-Amendment rights,” Fox yelled as he
was pulled from the hearing.  “As a filmmaker and journalist I have covered hundreds of
public hearings, including congressional hearings,” Fox said in
a statement after his arrest. “It is my understanding that
public speech is allowed to be filmed. Congress should be no
exception.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  