-- Republicans Challenge Democrats to Approve Federal Pay Freeze
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-02-01T19:20:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/republicans-challenge-democrats-to-approve-federal-pay-freeze.html
House Republican leaders challenged
Democrats to help them pass a pay-freeze extension for federal
workers and members of Congress under expedited procedures that
Democrats say are being used to embarrass them politically.  Legislation to extend the pay freeze through 2013 puts
Democrats in a political bind as they support President Barack Obama’s plan to give federal employees a 0.5 percent raise.
House Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer called the  House Republicans ’
plan a “very clever political effort” because Democrats would
appear to be voting to give themselves a salary increase if they
oppose the pay freeze.  Still, the Maryland lawmaker urged fellow Democrats to vote
against the measure. Widespread Democratic opposition would kill
the legislation because the streamlined procedure for the vote
requires a two-thirds majority for passage.  “Democrats are trying to actually block freezing our
pay,” Republican Whip  Kevin McCarthy  of  California  told
reporters. “They are trying to block the ability that we follow
through on our own pledge to cut our own budget,” he told
reporters today.  In his daily whip notice, Hoyer said by pairing the federal
pay raise with the issue of legislative salaries, Republicans
are “once again demonstrating that they are more interested in
politics than finding real solutions.”  House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican,
said tying the wage freeze for federal workers with
congressional pay is intended to “make sure that we are
consistent with what we are expecting of everybody else” in
government.  ‘Very Good’ Ad  Hoyer, whose district is home to thousands of federal
workers, said yesterday that the Republican bill was structured
to give them fodder for “a very good 30-second ad” during the
election campaign.  To try to thwart what he termed a “political ploy” by
Republicans, Maryland Democratic Representative  Chris Van Hollen 
introduced separate legislation to freeze the pay of lawmakers.  “If they are not trying to use congressional pay as a hook
to punish all federal employees, then they should be willing to
have an up-or-down vote” on his measure “so people can have a
choice,”  Van Hollen  told reporters.  Van Hollen, whose congressional district outside Washington
is also heavily populated by federal workers, said on the floor
that Congress shouldn’t use congressional pay to “hold
hostage” cost-of-living increases for federal workers.  Extending Pay Freeze  Wisconsin Republican  Sean Duffy , sponsor of the
 legislation , objected to Van Hollen’s request for a vote today
on his measure. Duffy’s proposal would extend through Dec. 31,
2013, a pay freeze for government employees in fiscal 2012.  Duffy said his measure extends from two to three years a
federal pay freeze recommended by Obama’s deficit commission.  Freshman Florida Republican  Dennis Ross  said an automatic
pay increase for federal workers is “out of whack” with
private industry. The nation’s “appreciation” of federal
workers “does not bring a mandate to pay them above market rate
with little regard to their individual performance,” he said.  The legislation is HR 3835.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in  Washington  at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  