-- Old-Line Republicans Unite in Gingrich Hatred: Margaret Carlson
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-02-01T00:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/republican-guard-unites-in-gingrich-hatred-commentary-by-margaret-carlson.html
Yes,  Virginia , there is a Republican
establishment and, like Santa Claus, it works quietly. After it
convinced reluctant conservatives to nominate Senator  John McCain  for the presidency in 2008 -- and he lost spectacularly
to a rookie senator from  Illinois  -- its members went to ground.  The chastened old guard put what was left of its power in a
blind trust and turned the machinery over to the Tea Party
insurgency. The result: a historic win in 2010 that passed the
House gavel from Nancy Pelosi to  John Boehner .  The grateful graybeards have kept mostly quiet ever since.
Yet faced with the terrifying prospect of  Newt Gingrich  winning
the party’s presidential nomination, the loose congregation of
White House veterans, members of Congress, fundraisers, pundits,
party apparatchiks and the like creaked into action. The
establishment couldn’t create a candidacy -- Governors  Chris Christie  and Mitch Daniels refused to answer the call -- but in
the week and a half after Gingrich won the  South Carolina 
primary, sounding alarm bells throughout the capital, it proved
it could still smother one.  The establishment’s first line of attack was to reclaim the
mantle of  Ronald Reagan , which Gingrich had swiped in broad
daylight, citing the Republican saint about 60 times over the
course of 19 debates. According to Gingrich, he helped Governor
Reagan become President Reagan, then worked alongside the
president to create 16 million jobs.  Open Marriage  After the Gingrich victory in South Carolina, rusty
Reaganites rose up, contending that Gingrich had not only
exaggerated his relationship with Reagan -- he went almost
unmentioned in Reagan’s autobiography -- but that he’d had an
open marriage with the Gipper.  Writing in National Review,  Elliott Abrams , an assistant
secretary of state in the Reagan administration,  said  that far
from working as Reagan’s right hand, back in the day Gingrich
had “spewed insulting rhetoric at Reagan, his top aides, and his
policies to defeat Communism.” Christie called Gingrich “an
embarrassment” to the party. Former Senator  Bob Dole , who was
Senate majority leader when Gingrich was speaker of the House,
chimed in, saying Gingrich’s outsized flaws would drag down the
whole party if he managed to secure the nomination. “Hardly
anyone who served with Newt in Congress has endorsed him,” Dole
 noted .  Boom, boom, boom. In case primary voters missed any of the
action, Matt Drudge used his popular website, still functioning
as a digital bulletin board for the right, to neatly collate the
attacks -- proving you needn’t be born into the establishment to
belong to it.  By the time a choir sang the national anthem at the Jan. 26
debate in Jacksonville,  Florida , Gingrich had been so roughed up
by the establishment, and by more than $10 million in negative
ads from the Romney campaign and its establishment allies, that
he looked as limp as a dishrag. Having delivered more than his
share of venom through the years, Gingrich recognized its
effects, whimpering that all the nastiness made him “sad.” The
night passed without Gingrich mussing a hair on Romney’s head.  Yet Gingrich will not go down without a rebel yell. In his
defense, Sarah Palin  tore into  “establishment cannibals” who use
the tactics of the left in a clash “between the Republican
establishment and  Tea Party  and independent Americans.”
Gingrich’s lucrative romance with  Freddie Mac , his wayward
embrace of the individual mandate in health-care reform and his
affection for the Man in the Moon did not dissuade Palin, who
surely appreciates that a Romney presidency would yield only a
cold exile and irrelevancy for her. Typically coy, she left it
to First Dude Todd Palin to endorse Gingrich while she worked
Fox News and Facebook to stir up resentment against Romney.  ‘Real Intellectual’  Sarah Palin is not alone, which is why Gingrich may last
awhile.  Herman Cain  endorsed him last week. Richard Land,
president of the Southern Baptist Convention’s Ethics and
Religious Liberty Commission,  told  Thomas B. Edsall of the New
York Times that Gingrich’s support came from a Republican base
eager “to see a false smarty pants decapitated by a real
intellectual. He would tear Obama’s head off.”  In the end, however, the establishment is hard to beat --
especially for so imperfect a vessel of revenge fantasies as the
Gingrich campaign. Gingrich has vowed to take his fight all the
way to the convention. He said his new ally Palin was “correct
to say that all of the elements of the old establishment are in
a moment of hysteria” in trying to scuttle his campaign. He got
that right. How proud the hysterics of the establishment must be
today.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View   To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson in  Washington  at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 