-- RIM’s Stymiest Vows More Forceful Board to Revive BlackBerry
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-02-01T21:20:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/rim-s-stymiest-vows-more-forceful-board-as-blackberry-claws-back.html
     Feb. 1 (Bloomberg) --  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) ’s Barbara
Stymiest, a week into leading a board that had faced investor
criticism for being ineffective, said she plans further changes
to the director lineup to help revive the BlackBerry maker.  Stymiest, named chairwoman Jan. 22 after investors
campaigned for an overhaul, said she’s reviewing the composition
to fill gaps in directors’ knowledge. The addition this year of
India-born investor Prem Watsa brings a key understanding of
Asian markets to RIM’s leadership, she said in an interview.  Stymiest, who replaced founder  Mike Lazaridis  and  Jim
Balsillie , faces the challenge of convincing investors she can
help push for changes needed for RIM to revive  plunging sales 
and stock price. Stymiest declined to say whether any new
directors would be proposed ahead of Waterloo, Ontario-based
RIM’s July shareholder meeting.  “Driving change in an organization means a high-performing
board and a high-quality management team,” Stymiest, 55, said
yesterday in the wood-paneled dining room of her Toronto home.
“You get those two right and you can drive change quickly and
effectively.”  While her appointment was part of a larger management
shakeup, Lazaridis and Balsillie remain on the board, prompting
investors including  Jaguar Financial Corp. (JFC)  to say the overhaul
wasn’t enough.  Calls for Change  Stymiest and new Chief Executive Officer Thorsten Heins
replaced co-CEOs Balsillie and Lazaridis, who also shared the
roles of co-chairmen and ran RIM for more than 20 years. While
the two men made the BlackBerry a must-have gadget for bankers
and lawyers and made RIM  Canada ’s biggest company by market
value, in recent years they oversaw design flaws and marketing
missteps that has led to a 89 percent plunge in the share price
from its 2008 high.  RIM  rose  0.4 percent to $16.70 at the close in  New York .  Amid RIM’s decline, shareholders including Northwest &
Ethical Investments LP started calling for a management overhaul
last year.  Northwest & Ethical urged RIM to split the roles of
chairman and CEO, and later withdrew its demand after RIM
promised to review its governance structure and report the
findings. As part of its  report , published this week, RIM’s
review committee succumbed to the shareholder’s demand and said
separating the two roles is the best course of action. It also
recommended an independent leader for the board.  ‘Cosmetic’ Changes  Jaguar, which describes itself as a merchant bank that
invests in undervalued companies, also pushed its own change
campaign and said it had the support at least 8 percent of RIM
investors. The shareholder said RIM was hurt by “management
dominance and a lack of board oversight.”  After Stymiest’s promotion, Jaguar CEO Vic Alboini said she
isn’t “strong enough to cause dramatic change.”  “She’s been part of the problem,” he said. “I don’t
think she’s going to be strong enough to make the changes
necessary. We would say to her, ‘Prove us wrong.’”  Charlie Wolf , a Needham & Co. analyst, said Lazaridis and
Balsillie, who together own about 10 percent of RIM, made “as
little change as possible,” calling the new adjustments
“cosmetic.”  “RIM’s previous leadership is still involved so their
influence is there,” said  Ittai Kidron , an analyst at
Oppenheimer & Co. in New York.  Improving Execution  The BlackBerry’s share of the global smartphone market fell
to 11 percent in the third quarter of 2011 from 21 percent two
years earlier, according to Gartner Inc., as Apple’s iPhone and
devices running Google Inc.’s Android software won over users
with faster browsers and larger screens.  Heins said in an interview last week that his immediate
priority is to revive BlackBerry sales in the U.S., get a
revamped version of RIM’s struggling PlayBook tablet onto the
market next month and introduce its new operating system,
BlackBerry 10, on time later this year.  “We can improve on product execution and Thorsten is well-
positioned to do that,” Stymiest said. She said her job is to
provide “flawless oversight” of the management team.  She says she’s working on RIM almost every other day and
travels frequently to meetings at the company’s headquarters in
Waterloo. Much of the rest of the time she works out of the
third-floor office of her century-old Toronto home.  Keen Golfer  Stymiest said her experience with the Toronto Stock
Exchange gives her insight into the technological challenges RIM
faces. She ran the bourse for five years and oversaw the
transformation of a company plagued by a history of computer
problems and breakdowns into  North America ’s first publicly
traded exchange in November 2002.  Royal Bank of Canada  hired Stymiest as an executive during
a 2004 management overhaul, putting her in charge of “strategic
development,” with all corporate areas reporting to her,
including finance and risk management.  Stymiest last year left her position as a senior executive
at Royal Bank, the country’s largest, saying she wanted to
devote more time to board work, charity and improving her golf
handicap.  Next to the window in her  home office , which has a view
over downtown Toronto, are framed photos of Stymiest at golf
events with past Masters champion  Fred Couples  and Montreal
Canadiens hockey legend Guy Lafleur.  Patent Purchases  As part of the effort to bolster its competitive position,
RIM is likely to acquire more patents, Stymiest said. That would
help the company defend its intellectual portfolio and acquire
new technologies, she said.  “You’ll continue to see RIM make strategic acquisitions of
patents to give it the degrees of freedom to have the most
competitive, compelling device going forward,” she said.  Last year, RIM spent $770 million as part of the $4.5
billion winning bid for bankrupt  Nortel Networks Corp (NT) .’s patent
portfolio. Intellectual property is an increasingly important
part of smartphone makers’ strategies, with Google Inc. citing
patents as one reason for its decision in August to spend $12.5
billion buying Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc.  Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. (FFH) , the insurer run by Watsa,
last week doubled its stake in RIM to give it a share worth
about $450 million in a vote of confidence in the BlackBerry
maker after Watsa joined the board in the January shakeup.
Lazaridis, RIM’s second-largest investor, said Jan. 22 he’s
buying another $50 million worth of RIM stock.  Asked whether she will follow suit, Stymiest said she’s
“contemplating it.”  “I’m well exposed to RIM and continue to accumulate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  