-- Roche Sees Profit Growth in 2012 on Cost Cutting as Drug Sales Accelerate
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2012-02-01T16:44:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/roche-sees-profit-growth-in-2012-on-cost-cutting-as-drug-sales-accelerate.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG) , the world’s biggest
maker of cancer drugs, forecast high single-digit percentage
growth in earnings per share this year, disappointing some
investors as new products start to contribute to sales.  Net income last year rose to 9.5 billion Swiss francs
($10.3 billion) from 8.9 billion francs a year earlier, the
Basel, Switzerland-based company said today in a  statement  on
its website. Earnings per share excluding some items were 12.30
francs, falling short of the 12.46-franc average  estimate  of 26
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The forecast was “underwhelming” and investors hoped the
company would commit to giving more of the proceeds back with a
bigger dividend next year, analysts at JP Morgan Chase & Co.
wrote in a report today. Roche has cut costs and two new skin
cancer drugs -- Zelboraf for metastatic melanoma and Erivedge
for advanced basal cell carcinoma -- are poised to add to sales.  “Zelboraf seems to be doing very, very well amongst the 50
percent or so of the metastatic melanoma patients who are
eligible for it,”  Jack Scannell , a London-based analyst for
Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd., said in a telephone interview. “It
may end up being the first-line choice, which isn’t what
everyone had expected.” He rates the stock  “outperform.”   The company said it would continue its “attractive
dividend policy” even as it pursues a $5.7 billion hostile
takeover offer for U.S. gene-mapping company  Illumina Inc. (ILMN)   “Just to say that Illumina isn’t impacting our attractive
dividend policy is a commitment in itself,” Chief Financial
Officer Alan Hippe said in an interview.  Illumina Bid  Revenue fell 10 percent to 42.5 billion francs last year,
hurt by the strength of the Swiss currency against the dollar
and euro. At constant exchange rates, sales climbed 1 percent.  Sales will rise in the low to mid-single digits at constant
exchange rates this year, Roche said. Diagnostics sales growth
will exceed the market, the company said.  The Swiss drugmaker is building its diagnostics division
with the Illumina bid it began last week. Roche hasn’t entered
into a constructive dialogue with the U.S. company yet, Chief
Executive Officer Severin Schwan said on a conference call with
reporters.  “We have offered full and fair value to the shareholders
of Illumina,” Schwan said. “This is a very attractive offer
which creates value for both organizations.”  No Plan B  Roche yesterday said it would nominate six candidates for
election to Illumina’s board at the San Diego-based company’s
annual meeting. Roche wants to increase the size of the board
from nine directors to 11, which would give its nominees a
majority if they’re elected.  “I don’t think there’s any Plan B relative to this type of
acquisition” of a gene-sequencing company, Daniel O’Day, head
of Roche’s diagnostics unit, said in an interview. “They’re the
leaders. We want to invest in them.”  Roche will continue to look at other makers of diagnostic
technology for small- to medium-sized deals, O’Day said.  Roche fell 1.5 percent to 153.40 francs at the close of
trading in Zurich. The shares have returned 11 percent in the
 past year  including reinvested dividends, compared with a 17
percent return for the Bloomberg  Europe  Pharmaceutical Index.  Rituxan Leads Sales  The drugmaker cut jobs in the U.S. and Europe last year as
sales of its Avastin tumor therapy declined. Revenue from
Avastin fell 7 percent at constant exchange rates to 5.3 billion
francs. The  Food and Drug Administration  revoked approval of the
drug for  breast cancer  in November, saying its benefits didn’t
outweigh side effects such as bleeding and high  blood pressure .  Avastin no longer is the company’s top-seller. It was
displaced by Rituxan, another cancer therapy, whose sales rose 8
percent to 6 billion francs.  Expense reductions announced in 2010 saved the targeted 1.8
billion francs last year and will lead to 2.4 billion francs in
savings this year, Roche said.  Roche will pay an annual  dividend  of 6.80 francs a share,
the company said, up from 6.60 francs a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  