-- Romania May Lower Interest Rate for Third Time
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-02-01T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/romania-will-lower-interest-rate-for-third-time-survey-shows.html
Romania’s central bank will probably
reduce its  benchmark interest rate  by a quarter of a percentage
point for a third consecutive meeting as policy makers see
inflation slowing to a record.  The  Banca Nationala a Romaniei  will cut its main  interest
rate  to an all-time low of 5.50 percent, according to 13 of 15
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. A decision will be announced
today after 11 a.m. in Bucharest.  Romanian central bankers are among policy makers in
countries including  Brazil , Chile,  Russia , the Philippines,
Israel, Norway,  Moldova ,  Thailand  and Serbia who have eased
monetary policy amid concerns that  Europe ’s debt crisis will
quash economic growth.  “Underlying inflationary pressures remained low,
administrative prices will most likely remain unchanged in the
first quarter and the mood on the external markets is not very
bad at the moment,” Raiffeisen Bank Romania SA economist
Nicolae Covrig wrote in a report to clients. “So the context
seems favorable for a new cut in the key rate and we think the
central bank will not miss the opportunity.”  The country’s  economy , which probably grew a faster-than-
expected 2.5 percent last year, will see growth slowing this
year to between 1.8 percent and 2.3 percent on falling exports
to crisis-stricken western Europe, Jeffrey Franks, the
International Monetary Fund’s mission chief to  Romania , said on
Nov. 7.  The IMF may lower its estimate for Romania this year to as
low as 1 percent, Ziarul Financiar  reported  on Jan. 30, citing
unidentified people. The economy may expand between 1 percent
and 1.5 percent in 2012, slower than a previous forecast of 1.8
percent to 2.3 percent, the newspaper said.  Romania’s inflation rate will probably fall to below 2
percent in the second quarter from 3.1 percent in December and
end this year at 3 percent, making room for further interest-
rate reductions, Central Bank Deputy Governor Cristian Popa said
at a Euromoney conference in Vienna on Jan. 17.  -- With assistance from Barbara Sladkowska in Warsaw. Editors:
James M. Gomez, Alan Crosby  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  