-- Romney Wins Florida Primary, Frontrunner Again
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-02-01T01:05:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/romney-wins-florida-primary-re-establishing-him-as-republican-frontrunner.html
Mitt Romney  won today’s Florida
Republican presidential primary, the Associated Press projected
as polls closed, re-establishing him as the frontrunner for his
party’s nomination after his Jan. 21 loss in  South Carolina  to
former U.S. House Speaker Newt Gingrich.  Networks including CNN, Fox and MSNBC also called the 
Florida race for Romney.  Romney had 47 percent of the vote with 47 percent of
precincts counted, according to the Associated Press tally.
Gingrich had 31 percent, followed by former Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania with 13 percent and U.S. Representative
Ron Paul with 7 percent.  The victory gives Romney all 50 of Florida’s convention
delegates. The Republican convention in Tampa begins Aug. 27.  Romney is the first to win more than one nominating contest
in the Republican race. He finished first by 16 percentage
points in  New Hampshire ’s Jan. 10 primary, then slipped to
second, 12 points behind Gingrich, in South Carolina’s Jan. 21
vote.  Santorum was declared the winner in Iowa in a recount after
state party officials originally said Romney won the state’s
Jan. 3 caucuses.  Gingrich’s momentum heading into Florida sputtered as
Romney and his allies attacked him in television advertisements
and on the campaign trail.  Spending on broadcast ads on behalf of Romney in the state
totaled $13.3 million as of yesterday, compared with $2.5
million in advertising time bought by Gingrich and his backers,
according to data collected by New York-based Kantar Media’s
CMAG.  The race now heads west to Nevada, which holds its caucuses
on Feb. 4.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Catherine Dodge  in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Tampa,  Florida  at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net . 