-- Romney May Gain Ground in Next Races as Money Fuels Organization
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-02-01T05:03:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/romney-s-victory-in-florida-primary-shows-his-strength-in-republican-race.html
Mitt Romney , the winner of the
Republican primary in  Florida (STOFL1) , likes to talk about how it will
take 1,144 delegates to win his party’s presidential nomination.
He has collected fewer than 100 so far.  The delegate race will slow even more in the coming weeks
before accelerating in late February and March, following a busy
and unpredictable January when contests in Iowa, New Hampshire,
 South Carolina  and Florida yielded three different victors.  That will make it harder for former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  to gain momentum, even as he has vowed to keep fighting
Romney until the party’s national convention in August.  “Newt’s money may simply dry up, but that never seems to
be much of a concern with him because he thrives on free media
exposure,” said  John Feehery , a Republican strategist in
 Washington  who isn’t affiliated with any campaign. “Super
Tuesday will be Newt’s last stand.”  The 11 primaries and caucuses on March 6, known as Super
Tuesday because of the more than 400 delegates at stake that
day, include a selection of Southern states where Gingrich, a
onetime Georgia congressman, may find support.  Yet the first next phase of the race includes a series of
caucuses that will test the candidates’ organizational strength.  There will be six contests in February, starting with this
weekend’s  Nevada (STONV1)  and Maine caucuses, followed by Colorado and
Minnesota, and then primaries in Arizona and  Michigan (STOMI1)  on Feb.
28. A nonbinding primary will be held Feb. 7 in  Missouri  with
delegate allocation based on the state’s caucuses in March.  Romney’s Advantage  More attention will be given to the contests at the end of
February, when Romney’s tougher stance on immigration could help
him in the border state of  Arizona  and his father’s past
governorship in  Michigan  gives him added strength there. The
February races will yield a total of 187 delegates.  Romney and U.S. Representative Ron Paul of  Texas  have done
more organizing in the caucus states than Gingrich and onetime
U.S. Senator Rick Santorum, Republican officials and political
analysts say. And Romney won all four of those states in 2008
even as he lost the nomination to John McCain.  Romney and Paul have “been on the ground in these places
and have built the organization,” said Josh Putnam, a political
scientist at Davidson College in  North Carolina .  Time to Regroup  The slower period in February will give the Republicans
time to raise money and regroup, as the broader map plays to
Romney’s fundraising and organizational strengths.  The four-day  Nevada  campaign will take place in a state
that had the nation’s highest unemployment rate, 12.6 percent,
in December. For the fifth straight year,  Nevada (STEHNV)  also had the
highest rate of  foreclosure filings  in 2011,  according  to
RealtyTrac Inc., a data seller in  Irvine ,  California .  Barack Obama won the state in 2008 on his way to the White
House, and Nevada will be a battleground in November’s election.
The president visited Las Vegas last week as part of a campaign-
like tour after his State of the Union address.  Romney, who is scheduled to arrive in Nevada late today,
holds a clear advantage in the Silver State because of its large
Mormon population and his past success there.  Nevada has about 175,000 Mormons and 323 congregations,
 according  to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints.
That equates to about 6.5 percent of the state’s population.  Entrance polls  in 2008 showed 26 percent of Republican
caucus-goers were Mormon and Romney won 95 percent of that vote.  ‘No Competition’  “There is really no competition for Romney for the Mormon
vote in Nevada,” said Quin Monson, associate director of the
Center for the Study of Elections and Democracy at Brigham Young
University in Provo,  Utah . “Gingrich doesn’t really stand a
chance.”  Romney, 64, won Nevada’s 2008 caucuses with 51 percent of
the vote, well ahead of Paul, who got 14 percent, and McCain,
who recorded 13 percent.  Even before his  Florida  victory yesterday, Romney won the
endorsement of the Las Vegas Review-Journal. Nevada’s largest
newspaper  called  him a “Washington outsider, not a capital
insider.”  Until now, Gingrich’s campaign has been fueled by strong
performances in nationally televised debates. In February, just
one of those events is scheduled, making it harder for him to
keep his name in front of the media and voters.  ‘Lot of Opportunities’  Bill McCollum, Gingrich’s Florida campaign chairman,
pointed to March contests in Southern states where he said his
candidate could be more competitive.  “We’ve got a lot of opportunities,” said McCollum, who
was Rudy Giuliani’s 2008 Florida chairman. “On Super Tuesday,
he’s got 76 delegates in  Georgia  and right after that we have 90
in Mississippi and Alabama. Romney can’t spend like this
throughout the campaign.”  Still, Gingrich won’t be on the ballot in  Virginia , which
will also hold a March 6 vote. He failed to meet the
qualification requirements in his adopted home state, as well as
those in Missouri.  Before his arrival in Nevada today, Romney’s campaign has
already been running television commercials.  Through Jan. 30, his campaign spent more than $364,000 on
ads in the state, according to data from New York-based Kantar
Media’s CMAG, which tracks such spending. Restore Our Future, a
political action committee that backs Romney, hadn’t yet spent
anything. Gingrich hasn’t started advertising in Nevada.  Continuing the Fight  Gingrich, 68, has pledged to continue his fight in part
because many of the states will award delegates on a
proportional basis, rather than winner-take-all as was the case
in Florida. Finishing a close second in some of the states would
yield almost as many as would a win.  The former speaker also often cites his standing in
national polls, which at times have shown him preferred to
Romney by Republicans, even as he does worse among the
independent voters needed for a general election victory.  “We’re definitely well-prepared to go through this next
phase,”  Rick Tyler , a strategist with Winning Our Future, a
political action committee supporting Gingrich, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview yesterday. “Now it’s going to be
a two-person race.”  Gingrich has been helped by  Sheldon Adelson , a longtime
donor and casino executive based in Las Vegas who, with his
wife, has contributed $10 million to Winning Our Future.  Nevada Focus  As Romney and Gingrich fought over Florida, Paul focused on
Nevada and other caucus states where turnout tends to be lower
and a smaller investment in time and money can yield results, a
model used by Obama’s campaign in 2008.  For Paul, 76, who has a base of loyal followers, the
caucuses offer a chance to win enough delegates to parlay into
clout or recognition at the national convention in Tampa in
August.  Santorum of  Pennsylvania  has also promised to stay in the
race for the long haul, citing the proportional awarding of
delegates. Strategists say the calls for Gingrich to quit are
likely to be the loudest because he has been so vocal in his
criticism of Romney.  “There will be pressure for him to pull out of the race
from the so-called establishment, and pressure for him to remain
from the Sarah Palin wing of the party,” Feehery said.
“Conservatives want somebody else at the convention to have a
sizeable amount of delegates outside the Ron Paul faction, so
that they have more influence during the platform process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Las Vegas at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  