-- Romney Win in Florida Primary Shows Strength in Republican Race
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-02-02T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/romney-win-in-florida-primary-shows-strength.html
Mitt Romney  sought to seize the upper
hand in the Republican presidential race after his 14-point
triumph in Florida, assailing rival  Newt Gingrich  as not a
“pure conservative” even as he defended his own attitude
toward economically disadvantaged Americans.  As the contest moved west in advance of Nevada’s Feb. 4
caucuses, the former Massachusetts governor said Gingrich had
strayed from core party principles by advocating action to curb
 climate change , criticizing a Republican Medicare plan and
backing a national mandate to purchase health care. For his
part, Gingrich has branded Romney a “Massachusetts moderate”
to stoke resistance to his candidacy among the Republican base.  “I’m not saying he’s not conservative; I’m just saying
he’s not the pure conservative he would have people believe,”
Romney said yesterday of Gingrich, the former U.S. House
speaker.  Romney, 64, a former private equity executive, is facing
fresh questions about whether he is out of touch with less-
fortunate people after remarking to  CNN  in an interview that
“I’m not concerned about the very poor” because they have many
programs to help them.  He told reporters on his campaign plane yesterday that his
comment was taken out of context.  Romney Protests  “No, no, no, no,” Romney protested when asked about his
statement. “I’ve said throughout the campaign my focus, my
concern, my energy is going to be devoted to helping middle-
income people, all right?” He said poor people have an “ample
safety net,” including Medicaid, housing vouchers, food stamps
and the Earned Income Tax Credit.  “If there are people that are falling through the cracks,
I want to fix that,” Romney said. “Wealthy people are doing
fine. But my focus in the campaign is on middle-income people.”  Gingrich, 68, defiant after his double-digit loss in
 Florida  and vowing to stay in the race for months grappling for
delegates, pounced on Romney’s comments, saying they illuminated
a “perfect distinction” between himself and his competitor.  At a rally in Reno, Nevada, Gingrich said he is “fed up
with politicians of either party dividing Americans against each
other. I am running to be the president of all the American
people and I am concerned about all the American people.”  Gingrich has cast his candidacy in populist terms,
portraying Romney as beholden to Washington politicians and Wall
Street bankers. He attributed his Florida loss to the large
spending disparity between Romney and his allies, who hammered
him with negative televisions advertising, and Gingrich and his
own backers.  People-Power  “We are going to pit people-power against money-power in
this campaign,” Gingrich said.  Real estate developer  Donald Trump , whose flirtations last
year with his own presidential run added an unpredictable
element to the Republican contest, planned what he billed as a
“major announcement” today in Las Vegas. Several news
organizations reported it would be an endorsement of Gingrich,
citing anonymous campaign sources. Gingrich’s campaign didn’t
respond to requests for comment from Bloomberg News.  “I have no idea what the Donald is going to do,” Gingrich
told reporters yesterday in Reno. “He is always interesting,
and I don’t know of anybody who does a better job of getting
attention by announcing that he will presently announce
something.”  Pressing for Advantage  Romney arrived in Las Vegas last night and drew hundreds of
people to a rally in a paper warehouse, pressing for advantage
in  Nevada , where Texas Congressman  Ron Paul  and former
Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum , also were campaigning ahead
of the caucuses. The race was shifting into a different phase,
featuring a series of caucuses that will test the candidates’
organizational strength.  There are six contests in February -- starting with this
weekend’s Nevada balloting and rolling caucuses in  Maine  that
last into next week. They continue with Colorado and  Minnesota 
on Feb. 7 and then primaries in Arizona and  Michigan  on Feb 28.  Santorum, counting on support from socially conservative
voters who oppose abortion rights and gay marriage, was endorsed
by  Sharron Angle , a Tea Party-aligned politician who lost her
2010 bid to oust Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid of Nevada.  Santorum “has never wavered in his support for family
values, understanding the impact that strong families have on a
prosperous economy,” Angle said in a statement yesterday to
National Review Online. “His continuous opposition to amnesty,
Obamacare, the bail-outs and cap and trade are a perfect fit
with our main street  Tea Party  movement.”  Republican Foes  Keeping an eye on his Republican foes, Romney also
refocused his fire on President  Barack Obama , portraying him as
a feckless leader, “detached from reality” and lacking the
ability to reignite the lagging economy.  “He does not know how to lead America; he is detached from
the American people,” Romney said at a rally in Eagan,
Minnesota. “I will stay in touch with the American people, and
I will lead us back to prosperity.”  Romney also said Obama displayed “naivete” about foreign
affairs, reflected by an announcement yesterday by Secretary of
Defense Leon Panetta that the NATO-led coalition in  Afghanistan 
would end its primary combat role in mid-2013.  “Why in the world do you go to the people that you are
fighting with and tell them the day you are pulling out your
troops?” Romney said at the rally. “It makes absolutely no
sense.”  Most Diverse State  Romney’s win in Florida -- the most populous and diverse
state to weigh in so far in the Republican race -- earned him 50
delegates and dealt a blow to Gingrich after the former speaker
had triumphed in  South Carolina ’s Jan. 21 primary. Gingrich, who
finished second in Florida, vowed to press on, as did Santorum,
who ran third, and Paul, who finished fourth.  Romney beat Gingrich in the urban centers of Miami,  Fort
Lauderdale  and Palm Beach County, in the cities of southwest
Florida, across a swath of Central Florida from Tampa to Orlando
and  Daytona Beach , and in northeast Jacksonville. Gingrich
defeated Romney in 35 less-populated counties -- painting a
contrast between Romney’s urban and suburban support and
Gingrich’s appeal to rural Republicans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in  Las Vegas , Nevadaat 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  