-- Romney Wins Florida Primary to Reclaim Lead in Race
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-02-01T02:41:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/romney-wins-florida-presidential-primary-as-gingrich-pledges-to-fight-on.html
Mitt Romney won  Florida (BEESFL) ’s Republican
presidential primary, re-establishing himself as the front-
runner for his party’s nomination in a race that rival  Newt Gingrich  has pledged to drag on for months.  Romney told supporters in Tampa tonight he is ready “to
lead this party,” and that Republicans will be united once the
nomination is decided. “A competitive primary does not divide
us, it prepares us,” he said.  Romney’s triumph dealt a blow to Gingrich just 10 days
after the former U.S. House speaker won the South Carolina
primary. Romney rebounded with more aggressive attacks on his
rival to score a victory that could make it more difficult for
Gingrich to raise the money and have the support to force the
prolonged battle that he has vowed to wage.  The next battleground is Nevada, which holds its caucuses
on Feb. 4 and where a sizable Mormon community gives Romney, who
practices that religion, a potential advantage.  In Florida, Romney had 47 percent of the vote with 96
percent of precincts counted, according to the  Associated Press .
Gingrich had 32 percent, followed by former Senator  Rick Santorum  of  Pennsylvania  with 13 percent and U.S. Representative
 Ron Paul  with 7 percent.  Packed Hall  At Romney’s victory party in a packed convention center
hall in downtown Tampa, his supporters exultantly counted down
the seconds until Florida’s polls closed, letting out a roar and
waving tiny American flags as he was immediately projected the
winner by television networks including CNN and Fox. About 75
miles northeast in  Orlando , barely 50 people milled around at
Gingrich’s gathering as the race was called.  Gingrich spoke to about 200 people a little more than an
hour later and sought to put a positive spin on the day’s
results. He said that combined, the  Florida  and South Carolina
votes had made it ‘clear that this will be a two-person race
between the conservative leader, Newt Gingrich, and the
Massachusetts moderate,” the term he often uses for Romney.  “I pledge to you my life, my fortune and my sacred honor,”
Gingrich said as he ended his remarks, paraphrasing a line in
the U.S. Declaration of Independence.  50 Delegates  Romney’s win in the diverse state gives the former
Massachusetts governor all 50 of Florida’s delegates and pushes
the Republican race into a new phase in which he and the other
contenders will be criss-crossing the country vying for the
1,144 delegates needed to secure the nomination.  Romney is the first to win more than one nominating contest
this year. He finished first by 16 percentage points in  New
Hampshire ’s Jan. 10 primary, then slipped to second, 12 points
behind Gingrich, in  South Carolina ’s Jan. 21 vote.  Santorum was declared the winner in  Iowa  in a recount after
state party officials originally said Romney won the state’s
Jan. 3 caucuses.  While Romney emerges from Florida with momentum and a
substantial edge over his competitors, he also enters what could
be a months-long intraparty fight marked by assaults on how he
earned his fortune, his ability to identify with ordinary people
during a time of prolonged joblessness, and how committed he is
to many of the party’s core principles.  Some Republicans have expressed concerns about how damaging
such a fight might be to the party’s efforts to oust President
 Barack Obama  in November.  ‘Painful Process’  Romney has “got to get beyond the ‘Just win, baby’
philosophy,” Republican strategist  John Feehery  said. “It’s
not enough just to win ugly. You’ve got to offer something
positive. And if Romney just decides he’s going to win by
burning down Gingrich, and Gingrich responds by throwing mud on
Romney, it’s going to be a painful process.”  The campaign in Florida was the nastiest so far in the
nomination fight, with 91 percent of all television ads aired in
the state over the final week classified as negative by Kantar
Media’s CMAG, a New York-based firm that tracks the commercials.
Romney and his allies pounded Gingrich with television ads that
criticized his record and character, outspending him more than
6-1, according to CMAG.  Ethics Reprimand  In commercials and on the campaign trail, Romney rehashed
Gingrich’s 1997 House ethics reprimand and his consulting work
for  Freddie Mac , the federally backed home mortgage company that
is unpopular in Florida, where 23 percent of all mortgaged homes
are delinquent or in foreclosure, the most in the nation,
according to Jacksonville-based Lender Processing Services.  Romney and his supporters spent $13.3 million on broadcast
ads in Florida as of yesterday, compared with $2.5 million in
advertising time bought by Gingrich and his backers, CMAG found.  “If you’re attacked, I’m not going to sit back,” Romney
told reporters in Tampa as voters went to the polls today. “I’m
going to fight back, fight back hard.”  Gingrich, casting his candidacy in populist terms, answered
by charging that Romney was dishonest and beholden to Washington
politicians and Wall Street bankers who benefited from
government bailouts.  “We can’t beat all the money power of Goldman Sachs, all
the Romney people; we can’t beat the Romney money ourselves,”
Gingrich told voters in  Pensacola , Florida, yesterday. “We
can’t beat the dishonesty of his campaign by ourselves. We need
witnesses who are prepared to go out and prepared to stand for
conservatism.”  Housing Issue  Exit polls indicated that Florida voters were hit hard by
the sagging economy, particularly the housing crisis, and
dissatisfied with their presidential contenders, according to
preliminary results reported by the Associated Pres. Half said
foreclosures had been a major problem in their communities, and
about 60 percent said the economy had been the biggest driver of
their choice of candidate -- dwarfing the one-quarter who cited
soaring federal budget deficits.  Fewer than six in 10 said they were satisfied with the
candidates among whom they had chosen.  Feehery said the  Republican Party  is “going into its own
version of class warfare,” pitting the traditional Republican
establishment, represented by Romney, against the Tea Party-
aligned faction that dislikes him.  “They don’t like  Mitt Romney  for a variety of reasons.
They don’t like that he’s only paid 15 percent in taxes, they
don’t like that he’s the embodiment of the Republican elite,”
said Feehery. “He’s not going to change his personality, so
he’s got to figure out how he can construct policies that
actually appeal to these folks.”  February Contests  Gingrich has started plotting a strategy for the seven
contests in February where his aides say he has a chance to hang
on, particularly because in most of the states delegates will be
awarded on a proportional basis -- rather than in Florida’s
winner-take-all fashion.  “We are going to go all the way to the convention,”
Gingrich told a crowd of about 200 at the Renaissance Airport
Hotel in Orlando. “We are going to win in Tampa. And we are
going to be the nominee with your help.”  Santorum, after a weekend break from campaigning to care
for a sick daughter in Pennsylvania, also said he is staying in
the race. He ran no ads in Florida and had begun to focus on
other states before today’s vote.  He spoke tonight from  Las Vegas , offering himself as the
candidate best able to “draw a clear contrast with President
Obama.”  Paul, who invested little effort in Florida, is
concentrating on gathering delegates from caucus states where it
is cheaper to campaign. He spent today campaigning in Colorado
and  Nevada (BEESNV) .  “We’ve only gotten started,” he told supporters tonight
in Henderson,  Nevada . An “irate, tireless minority” does well
in caucus states, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Tampa, Florida at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Tampa at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  