-- Rove Political Groups’ $51 Million Overcomes Democrats’ Edge
-- B y   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n   a n d   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-02-01T20:24:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/rove-political-groups-51-million-haul-erases-house-democrats-advantage.html
Republicans trying to hold control of
the U.S. House of Representatives will get a critical boost from
independent groups, financial filings show.  Just one set of the groups, American Crossroads and
Crossroads Grassroots Policy Strategies, yesterday reported
raising $51 million last year. That was close to the totals for
each of the two parties’ House election arms and enough to erase
the edge held by the House Democrats’ campaign committee.  It’s also 17 times the $3 million raised by a Democratic-
founded outside group, House Majority PAC.  The outside groups, without coordinating with the parties,
can infuse money into races where Republicans aren’t raising as
much as Democrats. They can also overwhelm Democrats with a
flood of negative advertising while leaving the  Republican Party 
and its candidates free to focus on positive messages. Rove’s
organizations intend to weigh in on House and Senate races as
well as the presidential campaign.  In some of the most competitive races, “at least as much
money is going to be spent by outside groups as is spent by the
candidates, and in some cases more,” said  Gary Jacobson , a
political science professor at the  University of California  at
 San Diego . “They’re going to be hugely involved.”  Party Committees  The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee raised more
than $61 million last year, according to a filing yesterday with
the U.S. Federal Election Commission. That outpaced the  National
Republican Congressional Committee , which said it brought in $55
million. The Democrats had $12 million in cash at the end of
December, compared with $15 million for the Republicans.  Democrats need a net gain of 25 seats to take back the
House. The DCCC has targeted 36 races and districts for its
“Red to Blue” program designed to flip the party in power.  The candidates are competing in an ever-more expensive
atmosphere. Candidates and groups looking to influence the House
elections have spent more than $9.2 million on broadcast
television ads for the campaign so far, according to  New York- 
based Kantar Media’s CMAG, which tracks advertising.  Crossroads GPS, a group that  Karl Rove , former political
adviser to President  George W. Bush , helped create, spent
$984,810 on television in nine districts. House Majority PAC,
the group backing Democratic House candidates, spent $255,120 on
broadcast television ads to aid candidates in Oregon and  Iowa .  While American Crossroads brought in $12 million from Oct.
4 to Dec. 31, its Democratic counterpart raised just $910,215 in
the same time period, according to the latest filings.  Cash on Hand  Overall, the three main Democratic Party committees
outraised their Republican counterparts last year, yet ended up
with less money in the bank. The  Republican National Committee ,
combined with the Republican Senate and House committees, had
almost $47 million to spend as of Dec. 31; the  Democratic
National Committee , plus its party’s House and Senate
committees, had a combined $36 million.  Individual races showed mixed fundraising results for each
party. In Iowa, Republican Representative Tom Latham had almost
four times as much cash as Democratic Representative Leonard Boswell as the two vie for a merged seat created by
redistricting. Latham raised $345,638 in the fourth quarter,
while Boswell brought in $181,934.  California Races  In  California , Republican challenger Ricky Gill took in
less than Democratic Representative Jerry McNerney, yet ended up
with a cash advantage, $837,618 to $780,340.  Democrats got better news in another California race, where
Democratic challenger Ami Bera had almost twice as much cash as
incumbent Republican Representative Dan Lungren after raising
$263,784 in the fourth quarter. Lungren brought in $178,607.  In  New Hampshire , Democratic challenger Anne McLane Kuster
doubled the intake of Republican Representative Charlie Bass in
the fourth quarter and ended up with $828,036 in cash, compared
with Bass’s $600,264.  More important than the money raised by the candidates in
competitive races may be the interest they draw from the outside
groups.  These groups are “shaping up as a major factor in House
races this year,” said  Rogan Kersh , a public policy professor
at  New York University . “A carefully targeted super-PAC stream
of contributions could influence a general-election House
result.”  Crossroads Groups  Republican-leaning groups such as Crossroads GPS spent $184
million on the 2010 elections, about $100 million more than
Democratic organizations, according to the Campaign Finance
Institute, a Washington-based research group.  Crossroads GPS is organized as a nonprofit issue group and
doesn’t disclose its donors. Its sister group American
Crossroads and House Majority PAC are part of a new breed of so-
called super-PACs that can take unlimited donations and have to
disclose their contributors.  Top donations in the final quarter to House Majority PAC
included $200,000 from the Teamsters union, $150,000 from media
executive Fred Eychaner and $100,000 from Bernard L. Schwartz,
the chief executive officer of BLS Investments.  American Crossroads got $5 million from Texas businessman
Harold Simmons and $2 million from his holding company  Contran
Corp. (CTRW)  It also reported a $5,000 contribution from the PAC of the
Dallas-based phone company  AT&T Inc. (T)   Republicans will also benefit from the Club for Growth,
which advocates for lower taxes. The group’s super-PAC had $1.9
million in cash after raising almost $2 million for the year.
The Congressional Leadership Fund, another committee dedicated
to helping Republicans maintain control of the House, raised
$130,604 as it got organized at the end of the year.  The spending reported so far is only the beginning,
Jacobson said. After a series of court and regulatory decisions
cleared the way for super-PACs, they quickly multiplied.  “It was absolutely predictable that the numbers would go
through the roof this time around,” Jacobson said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  