-- Rubenstein Says Carlyle IPO Benefit Is Freeing Up Money to Give to Charity
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-02-01T17:23:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/rubenstein-says-carlyle-ipo-benefit-is-freeing-up-money-to-give-to-charity.html
David Rubenstein , co-chief executive
officer of Carlyle Group LP, said one of the reasons he is
taking his private-equity firm public is to “liquefy” his
stake.  “When you create value, ultimately you want to liquefy and
get the benefit of that,” Rubenstein said today at the
Bloomberg Link China Conference in New York. “I’m committed to
giving away the bulk of my money. If I have money that is
available to me as a result of some factors, that’s what I’m
going to do with it.”  Carlyle is in the process of going public, following
Blackstone Group LP’s IPO in 2007 and KKR & Co.’s in 2010.
Rubenstein, along with co-founders  William Conway  and  Daniel
D’Aniello , received a combined $413 million last year as
Carlyle’s profits rose, the Washington-based firm said in a
regulatory filing last month.  Private-equity managers benefit from a lower  tax rate  on
their share of investment profits, known as carried interest.
The managers have been put under a public spotlight this year by
opponents of Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney , who
say the former Bain Capital LLC CEO made the bulk of his wealth
at the expense of companies and their workers.  Rubenstein defended Romney against attacks on his tax rate,
which the candidate revealed to be 13.9 percent, and called for
comprehensive reform of a “disgraceful” U.S. tax code.  ‘Biggest’ Mistake  “When people comply with the law, they shouldn’t be
criticized by people who say, ‘The law says you’re supposed to
pay X, you should have paid 2X,’” Rubenstein said. “Change the
law if you don’t think the law is appropriate.”  Rubenstein, 62, also praised Facebook Inc. CEO  Mark Zuckerberg , who is set to take his company public, for the 27-
year-old’s commitments to philanthropy. Facebook is expected to
file its IPO registration statement today.  “It’s amazing how an entrepreneur like Mark Zuckerberg
built in a relatively short time a company that has such impact
in the world,” Rubenstein said. “Now that he’s going to be one
of the wealthier people in the world, I think his initial
efforts in philanthropy are very encouraging.”  Rubenstein had an early opportunity to invest in Facebook,
he said, when his son-in-law told him about a friend who was
dropping out of  Harvard University  to pursue a social media
startup. He declined to meet with the young Zuckerberg.  “I’ve made some mistakes,” Rubenstein said, “but that
was probably my biggest.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  