-- Putin Battles to Avoid Kremlin Runoff as Political Stability Loses Appeal
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-02-02T17:10:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/russia-kremlin-runoff-may-be-destabilizing-putin-says-after-drop-in-polls.html
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  is
battling to avoid a presidential runoff that may dent his
authority as polls suggest Russians will force a second round of
voting for the first time since 1996.  Putin, 59, warned yesterday that a runoff may challenge the
stability he’s championed throughout his 12 years as the
country’s top politician, telling students who have volunteered
to monitor March’s vote that he’s ready to fight should he fail
to win the 50 percent backing needed for a first-round victory.  The Russian leader is facing the biggest challenge to his
rule after allegations of fraud in Dec. 4 legislative polls
sparked mass protests. While Putin has targeted his core
electorate in campaigning this year, his authority may be
diminished because he’s losing touch with younger voters who
don’t remember the instability of the 1990s, according to
 Nikolai Petrov , a political analyst at the Carnegie Center.  “A second round is bad for Putin because he should show
the elite he’s not just a strongman but also Russia’s undisputed
leader,” Petrov said yesterday by phone from Moscow. “He’s
already weaker than he was and he won’t be as strong a president
as he once was.”  Fitch Ratings  lowered the outlook on Russia’s BBB credit
rating to stable from positive on Jan. 16, highlighting “risks
associated with Russia’s political model.” Russian stocks rose
for a third session to reach a five-month high, with the  Micex (INDEXCF) 
index gaining 0.2 percent to 1,542.39 at the close in Moscow.  Support Dwindles  Having vowed to bolster the rule of law since taking over
from his predecessor  Boris Yeltsin  on Dec. 31, 1999, Putin made
his ability to deliver stability a cornerstone of his campaign.  Next month’s election going to a second round may bring “a
certain destabilization, a continuation of the political
battle,” he said yesterday in Moscow. “I’m ready for this.”  Putin, who wants to replace President  Dmitry Medvedev  in
the Kremlin after four years as premier, will get 49 percent of
the vote, according to a Jan. 21-22 poll of 1,600 people by the
state-run All-Russian Center for the Study of Public Opinion,
known as VTsIOM. That’s down from 52 percent a week earlier.  A Jan. 21-22 survey of 3,000 people by the  Public Opinion 
Foundation, known as FOM, puts that figure at 44 percent, down
from 45 percent the previous week. The prime minister’s support
is as low as 37 percent, according to a poll by the independent
 Levada Center , which surveyed 1,600 people on Jan. 20-23 and had
a margin of error of 3.4 percentage points.  Fraud Accusations  Communist leader  Gennady Zyuganov , Putin’s closest rival,
would get 8 percent according to Levada and 11 percent according
to VTsIOM and FOM, leading candidates such as billionaire
 Mikhail Prokhorov  and former Putin ally Sergei Mironov.  Zyuganov and other opposition leaders have accused Putin’s
ruling United Russia party of inflating its score to about 50
percent from 30 percent in December’s elections. They demand a
fresh vote and plan another major demonstration in Moscow on
Feb. 4. Previous rallies attracted tens of thousands of people.  The prime minister says the legislative polls were fair.
Still, he began installing cameras at polling stations to boost
transparency at March’s vote, while Medvedev has proposed
restoring direct elections for regional governors, which were
scrapped in 2004, and easing the registration of political
parties and presidential candidates.  The Central Electoral Commission has barred Grigory Yavlinsky, who heads the pro-democracy Yabloko party, from
challenging Putin next month, saying signatures gathered to
support his application were invalid.  ‘Matter of Urgency’  Russian electoral authorities should reverse the decision
and allow Yavlinsky to run in the election as “a matter of
urgency,”  Catherine Ashton , the European Union’s foreign policy
chief, said yesterday in a speech in Brussels.  As the election draws nearer, Putin has stepped up the
anti-U.S. rhetoric that became a hallmark of his two terms as
president and helped stoke a popularity rating that reached 70
percent in 2008, when he made way for Medvedev.  “Sometimes I get the impression the U.S. doesn’t need
allies, it needs vassals,” Putin said Jan. 25 in the Siberian
city of Tomsk.  The prime minister has every chance of winning without a
runoff,  Dmitry Peskov , his spokesman, said Jan. 17.  Billionaire Dmitry Pumpyansky, majority owner of pipe
producer OAO TMK, said Jan. 26 that a clear-cut first-round
victory for Putin is preferable for big business.  ‘Don’t Need It’  “I think there will be just one round and Putin will
win,” Pumpyansky said in an interview at the  World Economic
Forum  in Davos. “I would like that because in the current
conditions in  Russia  any changes can be made through reform from
above, while other changes from the bottom, frankly speaking,
lead to a revolution and we don’t need it.”  While Putin is assured of victory, his promises of
stability have lost their “magical significance” and should be
combined with new ideas, said Valery Fedorov, VTSiOM’s general
director.  “The question is: will he win by carrot or stick,”
Fedorov said yesterday by phone. “He needs to win by carrot and
avoid accusations of fraud. He can’t afford that kind of
impaired victory.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  