-- Russia Warns Arab Leaders Against Pressing Syria ‘Too Hard’
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-02-01T08:05:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/russia-warns-arab-leaders-against-crossing-red-line-on-syrian-leadership.html
Russia  warned Arab leaders against
crossing a “red line” in trying to oust Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad and said it wasn’t the job of the United Nations
to dictate who stays in power and who goes.  Arab League leaders, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and
European foreign ministers called yesterday for the Security
Council -- and indirectly Russia -- to adopt the Arab-European
plan that would have Assad delegate his authority to a deputy
who would start talks with the opposition within two months.  “The Arab League is now in the driver’s seat; sometimes
you can press the accelerator too hard and you find yourself in
a ditch,” Russia’s ambassador to the UN,  Vitaly Churkin , said
yesterday. “The Security Council cannot prescribe ready recipes
for the outcome of domestic political processes.”  Syria  was at the center of talks at the world body almost a
year after an uprising began against Assad. The UN says more
than 5,400 people have been killed in the conflict, which is
evolving into a civil war.  As the UN started talks on Syria, Assad’s forces pressed
into suburbs in Damascus and other parts of Syria to reclaim
areas controlled by the opposition Free Syrian Army, according
to Rami Abdel Rahman, head of the U.K.-based Syrian Observatory
for Human Rights. The army has led a wide-ranging offensive to
crush the FSA, made up of defectors and armed civilians, since
Jan. 27, he said in an interview yesterday.  Dabbling  Russia blocked a December resolution seeking to hold Assad
responsible for the violence in his country and has threatened
to use its  Security Council  veto again. Syria hosts Russia’s
only military base outside the former  Soviet Union  and is a
buyer of Russian weapons.  Churkin said an agreement to end the violence in Syria is
“not only possible, but necessary,” yet went on to reject any
language in the draft resolution that can be interpreted as an
attempt to force Assad out.  Once countries start dabbling in regime change “it is
difficult to stop, then you will start telling what kings need
to resign and what prime ministers need to step down,” Churkin
told reporters after the council briefing by top Arab League
officials.  The measure was introduced by  Morocco , the only Arab nation
on the Security Council. Arab and European countries will seek a
council vote this week, said U.K Ambassador Mark Lyall Grant.  Arab League  “We will hold discussions with Russia and other nations
over the next 24 hours to see if we can make progress on this
resolution,” U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  told
reporters in  New York .  Arab League Secretary-General Nabil El-Arabi and Qatari
Prime Minister Sheikh Hamad bin Jassim Al Thani made their case
before the UN’s decision-making body and sought to reassure
Russia on its concerns.  The road map adopted on Jan. 22 should “in no way be
interpreted as calling on the Syrian president to renounce
power,” El-Arabi said, citing a pledge made to him by Assad in
July that he would put his deputy, Farouk al-Sharaa, in charge.
“This is very similar to the call of the Arab League as of
now.”  ‘Clear Message’  “It is time for the international community to put aside
our own differences and send a clear message of support to the
people of Syria,” Clinton said in a direct appeal to Russia.  “The alternative -- spurning the  Arab League , abandoning
the Syrian people, emboldening the dictator -- would compound
this tragedy, mark a failure of our shared responsibility, and
shake the credibility” of the UN, she told the council.  The latest draft of a Western-backed Arab League resolution
on Syria also had language directed at Russia:  “Nothing in
this resolution compels states to resort to the use of force or
the threat of force,” says the draft, obtained yesterday.  Syria’s Ambassador Bashar Ja’afari, Assad’s sole
representative at yesterday’s meeting, accused foreign powers of
meddling.  “Unbridled tendency by foreign states to interfere in our
internal and external affairs through various mean is neither
sudden nor novel,” he said.  In  Washington , Director of National Intelligence James
Clapper said yesterday that time is running out for Assad.  “It’s a question of time before Assad falls,” he
testified before the Senate Intelligence Committee. Still, he
said, “It could be a long time” given a protracted uprising
and the fragmentation of the Assad opposition.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  