-- Samsung, CSR, NFL, Elsevier, Motorola: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-02-01T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/samsung-csr-nfl-elsevier-motorola-intellectual-property.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  is being
probed by European Union antitrust regulators over licensing of
patents to other mobile-phone manufacturers.  The  European Commission  said it will investigate whether
Samsung broke a 1998 commitment to license any standard
essential patents for phones on “fair, reasonable and non-
discriminatory terms.” It acted after Samsung claimed last year
in European courts that rivals infringed its patents, the EU
said in a statement.  Regulators have increased scrutiny of intellectual property
rights, with EU antitrust chief  Joaquin Almunia  saying last
month that he wanted to ensure patents weren’t used to block
rivals’ expansion. He is also probing Honeywell International
Inc. and DuPont Co. over chemical patents and is looking into
standards in the banking industry.  The EU is “very interested in standards because of their
increased importance in view of the telecom boom and the
disputes that are going on in the handheld industry,” said
Douwe Groenevelt, a lawyer with De Brauw Blackstone Westbroek NV
in Brussels. Companies that own “standards-essential patents
are in a very powerful position” because rivals must ask for a
license to make products compatible with industry norms.  James Chung , a spokesman for Samsung in  Seoul , declined to
immediately comment on the EU investigation.  The EU commission will investigate whether Samsung broke EU
monopoly abuse rules and violated a commitment to the European
Telecommunications Standards Institute over licensing terms by
using “certain of its standard essential patent rights to
distort competition in European mobile device markets,” the
Brussels-based agency said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  The EU said in November that it was quizzing Samsung and
rival Apple Inc. over the use of patents.  Both companies were
sent requests for information about “the enforcement of
standards-essential patents in the mobile-telephony sector,”
the EU said at the time.  Alan Hely, a spokesman for Apple in  London , declined to
comment. Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , said in a U.S.
court filing in October that Samsung faced an EU probe into its
“egregious” misuse of patents.  CSR Says It Will Seek More Than 100 Patents on New Train  No patent applications related to  CSR Corp. (601766) ’s bullet-train
technology have yet appeared in the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office’s database of published patent applications, even after
the Chinese company announced plans to seek U.S. patent
protection.
      State-owned CSR told  Asahi Shimbun in June that although
its bullet train was based in technology used in  Japan ’s high-
speed trains, the technology was developed independently and CRS
would seek U.S. patent protection.  In a January statement , the Beijing-based company said its
newest train is “a cutting-edge product independently and
comprehensively innovated by CSR.” Research institutes that
contributed to development of the train’s technology include the
Institute of Mechanics, the Chinese Academy of Sciences, the
China Academy of Railway Sciences, Southwest Jiaotong
University, Beijing Jiaotong University and Tongji University,
CSR said.  The new train is sword-shaped, with the design inspired by
an ancient Chinese weapon, the company said. CSR will apply for
more than 100 patents for the train, according to the statement.  Samsung Fails to Overturn Apple’s German Galaxy Tab 10.1 Ban  Samsung Electronics Co. lost a bid to overturn a German
sales ban on its Galaxy 10.1 tablet computers obtained by  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  in an intellectual property dispute.  The Higher Regional Court in Dusseldorf backed the ban in a
ruling yesterday. While Apple can’t rely on a European Union
design it used to win the sales ban, the order is justified
under German competition rules, Presiding Judge Wilhelm Berneke
said.  “Samsung wrongfully takes advantage of the enormous
reputation and prestige of the iPad,” Berneke said. “Samsung
unfairly imitates the iPad with its tablet.”  The ruling has little relevance because of the new Galaxy
Tab 10.1N, Samsung said in an e-mailed statement after the
ruling. The decision doesn’t apply to a suit Apple filed over
that model, which is being reviewed by a lower court in
Dusseldorf, the company said.  The court said the sales ban also applies to the Galaxy
8.9., so a separate ruling on that device, requested by Apple,
isn’t necessary.  In yesterday’s case, both sides were appealing a Sept. 9
sales ban issued by the lower court. Samsung sought to overturn
the ban, while Apple wanted it extended to cover all EU
countries. The court said today that the ban only applies in
 Germany .  Yesterday’s cases are OLG Dusseldorf, I-20 U 175/11 and I-
20 U 126/11.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  NFL, Saints Resolve Trademark Dispute With Who Dat Inc.  The National Football League and a New Orleans
entertainment company settled a trademark dispute, they said in
a joint statement.  Who Dat? Inc. sued the NFL in federal court in Baton Rouge,
 Louisiana , in March, accusing the league and the New Orleans
Saints football team of infringing its “Who Dat” trademark.
The company founder registered the trademark with the state of
Louisiana in 1983, according to court papers.  The phrase became part of  a chant used by fans  of the
Saints, particularly during the drive to the 2009 Super Bowl
championship.  The company objected to the Saints’ attempt to register the
phrase as a state trademark and the league’s and the team’s
opposition to its application for a federal trademark. The lack
of clarity over the ownership of the mark limited Who Dat?’s
opportunity to license it to others, according to the company’s
complaint.  The case was transferred to federal court in New Orleans in
August 2010.  In the joint statement issued Jan. 30, the league and Who
Dat? said they agreed to dismiss all claims against each other.
They said they will sell co-branded merchandise bearing both the
marks and logos of the Saints and the phrase “Who Dat?”  The case is Who Dat? Inc. v. NFL Properties LLC, 2:10-cv-
02296-CJB-KWR, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans).  Non-Profit Admission Possible Changes Name to College Possible  A non-profit college-preparation program for low-income
students in Nebraska, Wisconsin and Minnesota changed its name
to College Possible from Admission Possible in the wake of a
trademark dispute, the Minneapolis Star Tribune  reported .  A for-profit group based in California objected to the name
Admission Possible, the newspaper reported.  The California group originally gave the non-profit
permission to use its name, then sought the change after
Admission Possible expanded operations to Omaha, Nebraska,
according to the Star Tribune.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Reed Elsevier Journals Targeted by Academics’ Boycott  Reed Elsevier Plc (REL) , the owner of the LexisNexis database, is
being boycotted by more than a thousand academics who signed an
online petition.  The boycott, begun by  Professor Tim Gowers  of Cambridge
University, was triggered by  Jan. 21 blog posting  in which
Gowers said he would no longer “have anything to do with
Elsevier journals.”  For Gowers, a mathematician, that means he would no longer
publish, referee or do editorial work for more than a dozen
Elsevier publications in his field, including “Advances in
Mathematics,” “Journal of Algebra” and “Comptes Rendus.”  Shortly after Gowers’s blog posting, “ The Cost of
Knowledge ” website was set up. According to that site,
academics are boycotting the publisher for its support of the
“Stop Online Piracy Act,” and other proposed legislation they
claim “aim to restrict the free exchange of information.”  Price is another concern, the academics said. They claim
Elsevier charges “exorbitantly high prices” for their
journals, and sell them in very large bundles “ so libraries
must buy a large set with many unwanted journals or none at
all.”  Academics who signed on for the boycott come from
institutions including Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
California Institute of Technology,  Harvard University , Stanford
University, University of Cambridge, University of  Tokyo ,
Technion Israel Institute of Technology, the Max Planck
Institute, University of Pisa,  University of California  at
Berkeley and Oxford University.  In addition to mathematics, disciplines represented include
physics, computer science, chemistry, biology, astrophysics,
psychology and toxicology.  Patrick Kerr, a spokesman for London-based Reed Elsevier,
said that the facts on which the academics’ petition is based
“are not correct.” Access to published content “is greater
and at its lowest cost per use than ever,” Kerr said in an e-
mail.  The publisher “is in the business of expanding access to
content, not restricting it,” Kerr said. The company was “the
first and largest contributor” to the National Institutes of
Health free-text archive of biomedical and life sciences journal
literature, he said.  Elsevier is “reaching out” to the academics “to make
sure we understand their concerns,” Kerr said.  Newzbin’s Lawyer Disbarred for Concealing He Owned Client  A U.K.  intellectual property  lawyer who failed to disclose
he was the owner of a company he represented in a copyright-
infringement lawsuit was disbarred, according to the U.K.’s Bar
Standards Board.  David Harris of Brighton “engaged in conduct which was
likely to diminish public confidence in the administration of
justice or otherwise bring the legal profession into
disrepute,” the board’s disciplinary tribunal said in its Jan.
26 findings.  The company was Newzbin Ltd., in which Harris held 100
percent of the shares.  He “deceived or knowingly or recklessly
mislead the court” as to his relationship with the client, the
board said.  The board also found that Harris sent objectionable
messages under the “GeekLawyer” pseudonym via Twitter Inc.’s
short messaging service.  One of the “tweets” Harris sent was
“We are guilty as sin, f--- me they are entirely right,” the
U.K.’s Telegraph  reported .  Harris was also fined 2,500 pounds ($3,940). The tribunal’s
decision is open to appeal.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Japan Works with Fujitsu to Develop Cyber-Attack Defense  Although Japan’s government presently lacks the authority
for its legal use, the Defense Ministry is developing a computer
virus that can track and disable cyber attacks,  according to  the
Yomimuri Shimbun.  The virus, created by  Fujitsu Ltd. (6702)  under a three-year 178.5
million yen ($2.4 million) contract with the ministry’s
Technical Research and Development Institute, has been tested in
a closed environment, the newspaper reported.  Japan’s Criminal Code currently bars virus production,
according to Yomimuri Shimbun.  A 2005 cabinet decision defining the types of attacks
against which the nation can mount a defense would have to be
modified to permit the use of the virus, according to the
newspaper.  Motorola Solutions, Lemko Settle Trade-Secrets Dispute  Motorola Solutions Inc. and Lemko Corp. agreed to end their
trade-secrets dispute over technology related to mobile
telecommunications.  Motorola Solutions had sued Lemko in federal court in
 Chicago , while Lemko had filed claims in federal and state court
in  Illinois , according to a Jan. 31  statement  on Motorola
Solutions’ website. According to the statement the claims were
dismissed with prejudice, meaning they can’t be refiled, and the
settlement was amicable.  The Motorola case is Motorola Inc. v. Lemko Corp., 1:08-cv-
05427, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois
(Chicago). The state court suit is Lemko Corp. v. Motorola
Solutions Inc., 2011-L-011566, Illinois Circuit Court, Cook
County (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in  San Francisco  at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  