-- Facebook’s Sandberg Tops Social Network’s List Best-Compensated Executives
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-02-02T01:50:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/sandberg-s-30-9-million-compensation-tops-facebook-s-best-paid-executives.html
Facebook Inc. Chief Operating Officer
 Sheryl Sandberg  received $30.9 million in total compensation in
2011, making her the best-paid senior executive at the world’s
largest social network.  Sandberg’s compensation includes base salary, bonus and
$30.5 million in stock awards,  Menlo Park , California-based
Facebook said today in the  filing  for its initial public
offering.  While Sandberg’s compensation was the highest, her 0.1
percent stake is dwarfed by the 28.4 percent owned by Chief
Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg , which may vault him into the
top 10 on Forbes list of the world’s wealthiest people. The CEO
received $1.49 million in compensation for 2011, including a
base salary of $483,333. That will drop to $1 in 2013.  “It has always been fairly typically in the tech model of
executive compensation to lever heavily on the future success of
the company by granting compensation based on future stock
awards,” rather than large salaries, said Frank Glassner, chief
executive officer of  Veritas Executive Compensation Consultants 
in  San Francisco . “In the case of Facebook they certainly stand
to gain a tremendous amount of value.”  Facebook, founded in 2004 in a Harvard University dorm,
filed today to raise $5 billion in what would be the largest
Internet IPO on record. The company has discussed seeking a
valuation of as high as $100 billion, two people with knowledge
of the matter said last week.  Private Jet  At the high end of that range, Zuckerberg’s stake would be
worth $28.4 billion, ahead of all but eight people in Forbes
 annual list  last year.  Zuckerberg’s compensation for last year included $692,679
in costs associated with use of a private jet. He also received
$90,850 in estate and financial planning last year.  The move to a $1 salary is a “symbolic gesture,” and
matches the salaries paid to such executives as Apple Inc. co-
founder  Steve Jobs , Glassner said. The practice was popularized
by Lee Iacocca, who requested that salary when he took over
Chrysler Corp. and saved it from bankruptcy, Glassner said. The
low salary often belies the fact that the executive makes huge
profits on stock.  Sandberg received $381,966 in salary and bonus last year.
Chief Financial Officer David Ebersman received $18.7 million in
compensation last year, mostly consisting of $18.3 million in
stock awards.  Security Detail  Facebook, which had 845 million users at the end of last
year, didn’t specify the price or number of shares it will sell
in the filing. The $5 billion is a placeholder used to calculate
fees and may change.  Zuckerberg receives special security protection paid for by
Facebook, according to the filing. This includes a security
system at his house in  Palo Alto ,  California , and the annual
cost of security personnel.  “We require these security measures for the company’s
benefit because of the importance of Mr. Zuckerberg to Facebook,
and we believe that the costs of this comprehensive security
program are appropriate and necessary,” according to the
filing.  Facebook also will pay for Zuckerberg to use a private
plane for business and personal uses, according to the filing.
Sandberg also is authorized to use a private plane for business
purposes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  