-- Sandvik Declines as Profit Misses Estimates on Job-Cut Costs
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-02-01T10:39:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/sandvik-profit-misses-estimates-following-charges-for-job-cuts.html
Sandvik AB (SAND) , the world’s biggest maker
of metal-cutting tools, declined the most in three months in
Stockholm trading after reporting profit that missed analysts’
estimates because of the cost to cut jobs.  Net income fell to 731 million kronor ($108 million) in the
fourth quarter from 2.09 billion kronor a year earlier, the
Sandviken, Sweden-based company said today in a statement. The
average estimate from 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for
profit of 1.19 billion kronor.  “It’s a weak report,” said Lars Brorson, an analyst at
DNB Bank ASA in  London  who recommends that investors buy
Sandvik’s shares. “The fourth quarter was impacted by a lot of
restructuring stress.”  Chief Executive Officer Olof Faxander, who joined Sandvik
from Swedish steelmaker  SSAB AB (SSABA)  a year ago, is scaling back the
workforce to focus resources on more profitable operations. In
September, Sandvik began reorganizing into five units from
three, and said it may eventually sell the materials-technology
business. Faxander said Nov. 1 that he was focusing on making
that business more profitable and was leaning toward keeping it.  The  stock declined  as much as 6.3 percent, the sharpest
intraday drop since Nov. 1, and was down 3 percent at 97.50
kronor at 11:31 a.m. That pared the gain this year to 13
percent.  Share Performance  Sandvik took charges of 1.6 billion kronor in the quarter,
partly for its move to eliminate about 500 jobs, including 400
at its mining and construction unit.  Revenue rose 7.9 percent to 25.1 billion kronor as demand
from the automotive, mining, and oil and gas industries “was
high in the majority of markets,” Sandvik said.  “Major organizational changes always run a certain risk of
the company becoming too internally focused,” Faxander said in
the statement. The CEO said he is “delighted to see that the
process has been fast and efficient and that the new
organization is now in place.”  Demand has remained stable so far this year compared with
the fourth quarter, Ola Salmen, Sandvik’s chief financial
officer, said today in a phone interview. The company is likely
to add a couple hundred million kronor in restructuring costs
this year in its tooling unit, he said. The new charges would be
related to making production more efficient, he said.  Sandvik, which also cut 9,000 jobs in the recession that
started 2008, currently has no further plans to eliminate
positions, Salmen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  