-- Santander Reopens Spanish Covered Bond Market After 8 Months
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e   a n d   B e n   M a r t i n
-- 2012-02-01T17:29:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/santander-said-to-sell-first-spanish-covered-bonds-since-may.html
Banco Santander SA (SAN)  sold the first
Spanish covered bonds in eight months, a day after reporting
fourth-quarter profit fell 98 percent because of provisions for
real-estate losses.  Spain ’s largest lender priced 2 billion euros ($2.6
billion) of 3.25 percent mortgage-backed bonds due 2015 to yield
210 basis points, or 2.1 percentage points, more than the
benchmark swap rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Issuance of the loan-backed notes has stalled for all but
the safest lenders in the euro-area’s peripheral countries as
the region’s debt crisis escalated. Santander’s offering is the
first covered bond from a Spanish lender since it sold 1 billion
euros of securities backed by public sector loans in May,
according to UniCredit SpA data.  “It’s a very welcome signal for the market after eight
months of abstinence,” said Leef Dierks, an analyst at Morgan
Stanley in  London . “Still, the market will only be available
for the stronger names.”  Barclays Capital, Citigroup Inc. and Natixis managed the
covered bond sale with Santander. A Santander spokesman in
 Madrid  who declined to be identified wouldn’t comment.  Sales Revive  Banks issued 59 billion euros of covered bonds in January,
the second-highest amount for that month since 2011, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  European Central Bank ’s
longer-term refinancing operation, or LTRO, which flooded
financial firms with 489 billion euros of cheap loans to avoid a
credit crunch in December, is fuelling demand for covered bonds.  “Besides real money accounts and bank treasuries, some
covered bond trading desks are looking to rebuild their
inventories of Spanish paper after almost a year without any
supply,” said Torsten Elling, the London-based co-head of rates
syndicate at  Barclays Capital , one of the arrangers of the deal.
“Banks’ treasuries have already taken a large portion of the
Spanish paper available in the market in order to invest the
LTRO money.”  Santander’s net income shrank to 47 million euros in the
three months ended Dec. 31 after it set aside 1.8 billion euros
to cover soured property loans. Spanish banks are under pressure
from the government to recognize more losses on real-estate
assets that have built up on their balance sheets as a result of
the country’s property crash.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  