-- Sarkozy Says He Raised French Sales Tax to Hit Imported Products
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-02-01T12:47:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/sarkozy-says-he-raised-french-sales-tax-to-hit-imported-products.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said
he’s raising sales taxes to squeeze revenue out of a surge in
imports.  “In the past 10 years, you’ve doubled the amount you’ve
bought from overseas,” he told a conference of entrepreneurs in
Paris. “We all want flat-screen TV’s, psychedelic smart phones,
and computers. There’s nothing wrong with these goods but none
of them are made in France.”  “Isn’t it reasonable to make imports play a greater role
in paying for our welfare state,” he said.  Sarkozy, who faces re-election in just under three months,
announced Jan. 29 that value-added tax on some goods will be
raised 1.6 percentage points to pay for a 13 billion-euro ($17
billion) cut in social charges that’s aimed at making French
labor costs more competitive.  Sarkozy cited  Germany ’s success in carrying out similar
reforms, as well as allowing company specific labor accords that
Sarkozy wants to expand in France.  “The Germans have the great merit of having done some very
smart things,” Sarkozy said. “In this country, we are very
good at trying everything that doesn’t work,” he said, citing
the decrease in the  retirement age  and working week instituted
by previous Socialist governments. “We’re experts at it. If
these measures were so smart, why did no one else follow us?”  Sarkozy addressed why he’s pushing through an unpopular
reform just before an elections where he’s trailing in the polls
behind Socialist challenger  Francois Hollande .  “The figures don’t lie:  France  isn’t just losing ground to
China and India, but within  Europe ,” he said. “After the
presidential elections we have the legislative elections. After
all that campaigning, everyone’s going to need a break. So we’d
have to wait until after the summer. That’s not my style.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  