-- Schweitzer-Mauduit Falls After Cigarette-Paper Ruling Loss
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-02-01T21:26:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/schweitzer-mauduit-falls-after-losing-cigarette-paper-ruling.html
Schweitzer-Mauduit International
Inc. (SWM) , the world’s largest maker of cigarette papers, fell after
losing a ruling in a patent-infringement complaint against
Julius Glatz GmbH.  Julius Glatz and its LIPtec unit didn’t violate Schweitzer-
Mauduit’s patent rights for papers designed to limit accidental
fires, U.S. International Trade Commission Judge James Gildea
said in a  notice  today on the Washington-based agency’s website.
The findings are subject to review by the six-member commission,
which can block imports of products that infringe U.S. patents.  The dispute is over low-ignition propensity papers, which
have thick bands that act as “speed bumps” so a cigarette goes
out if a person isn’t drawing air through it. Every U.S. state
mandates the use of the low-ignition papers as part of efforts
to reduce the number of deaths caused by people falling asleep
with smoldering cigarettes.  Schweitzer-Mauduit  fell  3.8 percent to $66.92 at 4 p.m. in
New York trading of 1.27 million shares, almost 13 times the
three-month daily average.  Gildea’s full determination will be made public after both
companies get a chance to redact confidential information. Glatz
lawyer Rudolf Hutz of Connolly Bove Lodge & Hutz in Wilmington,
 Delaware , said the companies are expected to get copies of the
full ruling tomorrow.  Two Patents  Schweitzer-Mauduit, based in Alpharetta,  Georgia ,  claimed 
Julius Glatz infringed two patents related to a way to make the
papers. Schweitzer-Mauduit makes papers under the name Alginex,
and has said in regulatory filings that it has additional
patents protecting its flagship brand from competitors.  In its complaint, Schweitzer-Mauduit said it has about 23
percent of the global cigarette-paper market and it supplies
about 80 percent of the U.S. market for low-ignition propensity
papers.  Glatz, based in Neidenfels,  Germany , and its LIPtec make
and import their own papers, which are sold through  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based KneX Worldwide LLC, according to documents
in the case. The papers are used in the Signal and Skydancer
brand of cigarettes.  Hutz said Glatz’s main operations are in  Europe , with a
small presence in the U.S. He said the company was pleased with
the decision.  In October, Schweitzer-Mauduit said it had settled its
dispute with one competitor, Germany-based Delfortgroup AG, and
its distributor, Astra Tobacco Corp. of  Chapel Hill ,  North
Carolina . Under the terms of the agreement, Delfortgroup agreed
to pay a minimum of $4 million a year for five years, with
additional payments through the life of the patents, some of
which last through 2023.  The case is In the Matter of Reduced Ignition Proclivity
Cigarette Paper Wrappers, 337-756, U.S. International Trade
Commission ( Washington ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  