-- Scotland Needs to Decide on Independence Once and for All: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-02-01T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/scotland-needs-to-decide-on-independence-from-u-k-once-and-for-all-view.html
Within three years Scotland may
decide to break up the  United Kingdom . Many Scots think that
their centuries-old union with England -- one of history’s most
successful marriages of nations -- has run its course, and their
leaders have set a timetable for divorce.  If the two nations separate, it won’t be with a bang but
with years of tortuous wrangling. The leader of Scotland’s
devolved government, Alex Salmond, has started the process with
his call for  a referendum  in 2014. It will ask the Scots: “Do
you agree that Scotland should be an independent country?” If
they answer yes, protracted negotiations over the terms of the
split will begin.  It is, of course, up to Scots to decide whether to leave
the union, although we see more benefits to their staying than
leaving. What matters is that regardless of the outcome, the
question of  Scotland ’s independence should be closed for the
long term and not just the next 10 or 20 years.  The great danger in reviving this debate -- an elected
Scottish parliament with substantial devolved powers was
established after a previous referendum in 1997 -- is that it
will make more likely a split that neither side now really
wants. Endless inflammation of grievances and talk of possible
separation can poison the happiest of relationships.  Grievances Remain  We understand that blood was spilled in centuries past and
that Scots have grievances to nurse. The agreement to unify in
the 1707 Acts of Union was driven more by Scotland’s financial
need than by any love of the English. But however rocky the
start, the union of Scotland and  England  has been remarkably
productive for both nations. Distinctive cultural and political
traditions have merged without being subsumed. Scots were some
of the most intrepid and prominent proponents of the British
Empire and have often played a leading role in the U.K.’s
government.  Gains of that kind are impossible to quantify. Predictably,
the hard fiscal costs and benefits of independence are driving
the debate and causing tempers to fray.  The figures on cross-border flows of taxes and public
spending are disputed and far from conclusive. An independent
Scotland would gain most of the U.K.’s oil revenue -- which is
past its peak. Any net gain for Scotland would be marginal, as
independence would halt the other fiscal transfers that now flow
strongly in Scotland’s direction. The U.K.’s public  debts  would
have to be apportioned and various assets haggled over.
Estimates vary, but Scotland’s fiscal advantage in going alone,
if any, is dwindling.  By contrast, the union does bring two clear benefits. The
first is the guarantee of mutual support. Risk-sharing is
especially valuable for Scotland, the smaller nation -- its 5.2
million population is one-tenth the size of England’s. As an
integrated part of a bigger and more diversified economy,
Scotland has some cushion from the ups and downs of particular
industries. Salmond’s  Scottish National Party  says the City of
 London  has grown too big for the good of the U.K. and Scotland
would gain by shedding that bias. It has a point, but even so
it’s likely that Scotland’s economy would be more volatile
outside the union than inside it.  The second benefit is the force of unrestricted commerce:
material, cultural and intellectual. The Scots and the English
have reaped the gains of trade, writ large, for centuries.
Separation, even as members of a European Union that guarantees
freedom of movement for goods, services and people, would impede
that flow. To picture the implications, think of how commerce
between the U.S. and  Canada  would probably increase if Canada
were to become a 51st state. In a divorce between England and
Scotland, something immensely valuable, though impossible to
measure, would be lost to both.  Culture Endures  That could be a price worth paying, if Scots felt their
distinctive character and culture to be dissolving under English
dominance. True, only a few thousand Scots now speak Gaelic, a
loss under way for centuries. But overall, the miracle of the
union has been that Scotland’s culture and identity have endured
and flourished, to both nations’ benefit. Recent opinion polls
suggest most Scots agree that when it comes to the union of
England and Scotland, the whole is greater than the sum of its
parts.  Fighters for Scottish independence are shrewd, however.
Why, for instance, did they want three years’ preparation for
the vote? Because 2014 marks the 700th anniversary of the  Battle
of Bannockburn , a notable Scottish victory over the English.
Expect a surge of nationalist sentiment. Meanwhile, the
referendum question has been framed to pose the breakup of the
U.K. as the default option.  Regardless of Bannockburn, Salmond can expect to lose a
vote on full independence. But he aims to keep asking until
Scots give the right answer. With this in mind, despite the
objections of the Westminster government, the referendum might
offer a third choice alongside independence and the status quo:
a “devo max” option, referring to devolution, which would give
Scotland the fiscal powers of an independent nation but not full
sovereignty.  That would be an unstable settlement, by design. Under this
dispensation, would the U.K. government guarantee Scottish
debts? If it did, Westminster would have to keep oversight of
Scotland’s public borrowing, a denial of the promised fiscal
sovereignty. If not, as the crisis in the EU has shown, Scotland
would need its own central bank and currency. One destabilizing
step leads to the next.  Current arrangements are themselves an awkward compromise
and carry the seeds of a constitutional crisis. Scotland has its
own parliament with wide domestic powers. Yet Scottish MPs still
sit in the U.K. parliament at Westminster, where they can vote
on English-only matters. This was the result of the previous
debate on Scottish devolution and highlights the dangers of
endless constitutional tinkering.  If Scots decide in 2014 that they want to split, so be it.
But if they decide to stay, Salmond’s  Scottish National Party 
should get a new name and a new purpose. The matter should be
closed not for a few more years, but perhaps for the next 700.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 