-- Sharp Forecasts Record $3.8 Billion Loss on Slumping TV Prices, Write-Off
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-02-01T08:16:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/sharp-forecasts-record-3-8-billion-loss-on-lcd-tv-prices-tax-write-off.html
Sharp Corp. (6753)  forecast its worst annual
loss since it was founded a century ago, on slumping prices for
its Aquos televisions, an economic slowdown and a tax charge.  The net loss in the year ending March 31 may be 290 billion
yen ($3.8 billion), the Japanese electronics maker said in a
statement today, reversing an earlier  forecast  for a profit of 6
billion yen. That compares with the  average  16.2 billion-yen
loss from 24 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Sharp (6753) 
cut its revenue forecast by 8.9 percent and said operating
profit will be zero.  Japan ’s largest maker of LCD panels booked charges as it
cut deferred tax assets by 119.8 billion yen in the quarter
ended Dec. 31. The Osaka-based company and local rivals  Sony
Corp. (6758)  and  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  are also forecasting losses because of
weakening demand for TVs, while a stronger yen damps the
repatriated value of their overseas sales of  LCDs (6753) , mobile phones
and solar cells.  “It was a surprise Sharp announced such a big downward
revision,” said Tsunenori Ohmaki, analyst at Tachibana
Securities Co. “I’m not sure whether the production cuts
announced by the company until summer will be enough.”  Tax credits can’t be claimed when a company isn’t expected
to post a profit in the future. Companies need to reduce
deferred assets and take appropriate charges when they forecast
a loss.  Sharp fell  4.3 percent, the biggest drop since Sept. 26, to
close at 628 yen in Tokyo trading before the announcement. The
stock fell 20 percent last year. A loss this year will be the
first in  three years , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cutting TV Output  Sharp, founded in 1912, said it will halve the output at
its largest TV panel factory in Sakai city, Osaka prefecture.  In April, Sharp reduced production of TV panels at its two
biggest LCD plants. The company’s so-called 10th-generation
factory in Sakai, has a production capacity of 72,000 panels a
month, while the eighth-generation LCD plant in Kameyama, Mie,
is capable of making 100,000 panels.  In December,  Fitch Ratings  downgraded Sharp’s credit rating
to “BBB-,” citing increasing competition and weakness in the
TV market. Sony had its  rating cut  by Moody’s Investors Service
last month and Fitch in December, both citing the difficulty to
turn around the unprofitable TV business as the reason.  Sony, Panasonic  Sony, the world’s third-largest TV maker, is forecasting a
loss from selling TVs for an eighth consecutive year. The Tokyo-
based company may  report tomorrow  a 43 billion yen loss in the
third quarter, according to the average of four analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Panasonic reports Feb. 3.  Global liquid-crystal display TV shipments probably gained
8 percent to 206 million units last year, falling short of an
earlier projection of 211 million units, according to an 
October forecast by DisplaySearch. The shipments rose 13 percent 
in the quarter ended Dec. 31 from a year earlier, according to 
the researcher, which estimates annual shipments to rise 10 
percent in 2012.  “TV and LCD panel inventory may further pressure earnings
in the fourth-quarter,”  Takashi Watanabe , a Tokyo-based analyst
for Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said before the announcement.
Losses related to inventory correction as well as Sharp’s
declining market share in the smartphone market may also hurt
the company’s earnings, said the  analyst , who has a “neutral”
rating on the stock.  Still, Sharp may be winning new business.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the
world’s most-valuable technology company, is shifting production
of iPhone and iPad displays to Sharp and may introduce
televisions with screens from the Japanese company as early as
mid-2012, Jefferies & Co. said in a note in November.  Apple is moving its business to Sharp in Japan largely at
the expense of  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , a growing rival in
smartphones and tablets, according to  Peter Misek , a New York-
based analyst at Jefferies. He wrote the research note based on
a visit to Japan and conversations with manufacturing officials.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  