-- Soccer Body Considers Champions, Europa League Bans for Fund-Owned Players
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-02-01T13:13:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/soccer-body-considers-champions-europa-league-bans-for-fund-owned-players.html
European soccer’s governing body
would consider a Champions League and Europa League ban for
players whose transfer rights are owned by outside investors,
 UEFA ’s General Secretary Gianni Infantino said.  The ruling body is examining the practice of teams selling
some rights to investors, who want to profit from transfer fees
when the players move clubs. The technique is being used in top
leagues in  Portugal ,  Spain , Germany and  Italy  and is banned in
 England ’s Premier League and  France ’s Ligue 1. Infantino said in
an interview at UEFA’s headquarters in Nyon,  Switzerland , that
he doesn’t like the agreements.  French and English officials have complained to UEFA that
clubs can use the third-party investments to skirt new fiscal
regulations that seek to link clubs’ expenditure with their
income. Infantino said the organization “will certainly look
into” the possibility of banning third party-owned players from
UEFA competitions.  “This kind of player ownership is a growing threat,” he
added.  Transfers fall under the jurisdiction of soccer’s global
governing body FIFA, which currently allows investors to buy
stakes in athletes providing they have no control over when they
can play or when they are bought and sold. Infantino said it was
difficult to prove whether a company with economic interests in
player controlled when he was sold.  “We will ourselves look into this matter because it cannot
continue in this manner,” Infantino said.  Club Debts  UEFA last week released financial figures related to club
soccer. It showed 2.5 billion euros ($3.3 billion) was spent on
player trades in the region’s 53 national federations last
season. As many as 1,000 players, or 15 percent of all squads in
 Europe , may be part-owned by investors, according to Raffaele
Poli, a researcher at the  International Center for Sports
Studies  in Neuchatel, Switzerland, who co-writes an annual study
on the soccer transfer market.  The Premier League said it’s opposed to investors buying
stakes in players because “it threatens the integrity of
competitions, reduces the flow of transfer revenue contained
within the game and has the potential to exert external
influences on players’ transfer decisions.”  Spain’s Real Zaragoza, which is in administration, financed
the signing of goalkeeper Roberto Jimenez in the offseason with
as much as 8 million euros from an investment fund team
officials declined to identify. Real Zaragoza Chief
Executive Officer Francisco Checa said in a Nov. 17 interview
that team owner Agapito Iglesias is among investors in the
Fund, but wouldn’t identify other investors.  Billionaire Investor  In  Germany , billionaire investor Klaus-Michael Kuehne paid
12.5 million euros in return for a stake in five players at
Hamburg. A third of the transfer rights for Cologne striker
Lukas Podolski are held by club sponsor Solar World, which paid
a part of the striker’s 10 million euro move from  Bayern Munich .  “You know this is something I don’t like because if you
are not master of your decisions there’s always a question,”
record 22-time German champion Bayern Munich’s chairman Uli Hoeness said in a Jan. 16 interview.  The Premier League banned outside investors from having
stakes in players in 2007 after complications related to the
ownership of Argentina national team players Carlos Tevez and
 Javier Mascherano .  “We are encouraged that UEFA shares our concerns in this
area and is considering the possibility of outlawing the
practice for clubs competing in its competitions,” the league
said in a statement to Bloomberg News.  UEFA has also said it will look into the effect such player
ownership agreements have on its new financial regulations,
which will penalize teams that breach fiscal targets from 2014.
Clubs can have a maximum deficit of 45 million euros for three
seasons up to 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in the London newsroom on  at
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 