-- Solar Panel Supply Glut May Expand in 2012, BNEF’s Chase Says
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-02-01T12:06:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/solar-panel-supply-glut-may-expand-in-2012-bnef-s-chase-says.html
The glut of photovoltaic panels that
wiped $30 billion from solar stocks last year is likely to
expand in 2012, forcing manufacturers out of the industry, said
Bloomberg New Energy Finance’s Chief Solar Analyst Jenny Chase.  Photovoltaic plant developers will likely install about
28.4 gigawatts of generators this year while manufacturing
capacity may touch 45 gigawatts, Chase said. Installations for
2011 were about 28 gigawatts.  Excess capacity cut the price of solar panels in half last
year, depressing margins and prompting 15 of the 17 members of
Bloomberg Large Solar Index to post quarterly losses in their
most recent earnings statements. The index lost as much as 76
percent last year.  “In terms of margins, it’s going to be worse and in terms
of companies dropping out, it’s going to be worse,” Chase said
in a telephone interview. “The Chinese have made it clear that
they don’t intend to prop up uncompetitive manufacturers.”  Chase’s view contrasts with predictions from executives
that rising demand in  China  will help support the industry in
2012.  Suntech Power Holdings Co. CEO Zhengrong Shi last week
estimated China may add 4 gigawatts or more of panels, and  Trina
Solar Ltd. (TSL)  CEO Jifan Gao expects 5 gigawatts. That compares with
about 2.2 gigawatts installed there in 2011.  German Market  Germany, the world’s biggest solar market, fitted a record
3 gigawatts of panels in December as developers raced to meet a
year-end deadline for claiming higher rates of subsidies. That
brought the annual total to about 7.5 gigawatts and stabilized
the price of many components that tumbled earlier in the year.  The spot price of polysilicon, the main raw material for
solar panels, has rise for the past four weeks after the rush of
German installations cleared out most of the surplus inventory
that the industry had built up. Polysilicon fell as much as 67
percent last year.  German Environment Minister Norbert Roettgen said Jan. 19
he plans to reduce aid for solar generators each month instead
of the current system of twice-yearly cuts because installations
have exceeded the government’s targets.  That decision may support demand in  Germany  during the
first months of the year as investors again look to connect up
their generators before the new subsidy regime is introduced,
Chase said. “The second half could be a lot worse,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid  at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  