-- Sony Incoming CEO Hirai Must Confront TV Unit With $2.3 Billion in Losses
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-02-02T01:41:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/sony-incoming-ceo-hirai-must-confront-tv-unit-with-2-3-billion-in-losses.html
Incoming  Sony Corp. (6758)  Chief Executive
Officer  Kazuo Hirai ’s biggest challenge will be to solve a
puzzle that bedeviled  Howard Stringer  for eight years: how to
make money selling televisions.  Japan ’s  largest  electronics exporter said yesterday that
Hirai, 51, will succeed Stringer, 69, in April. Sony’s TV
 business  may lose 175 billion yen ($2.3 billion) this fiscal
year, adding to the 480 billion yen in losses since 2004.  Sony has lost ground to  South Korea ’s  Samsung Electronics
Co. (005930)  and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , both of which sell TVs profitably.
The Tokyo-based company and fellow Japanese television makers
Sharp Corp. and Panasonic Corp. have been crippled by the
strength of the yen, which forced Sharp to predict a record $3.8
billion loss yesterday.  “The most pressing issue is to turn around the TV
business,” said Ryosuke Katsura, analyst at Mizuho Securities
Co. “Then he can prove to investors that he can make a change,
but investors are skeptical how much he can do.”  Hirai, who worked in the company’s music and entertainment
divisions, established his reputation by turning around Sony’s
 PlayStation unit  and edged out three other candidates with
engineering backgrounds for the top job.  Born in  Tokyo  on Dec. 22, 1960, Hirai grew up in Japan and
the U.S., graduating from the International Christian University
in Tokyo in 1984 with a bachelor’s degree in liberal arts.  Cycling, Driving  After graduation, he joined a joint venture set up in Tokyo
by Sony and CBS Inc. The business later became Sony Music
Entertainment Inc., Sony’s main music unit.  Hirai, whose hobbies include cycling, driving, as well as
collecting cameras, watches, model railroads and telescopes,
moved to Sony Computer Entertainment America in 1995 and became
president of the U.S. unit in 1999. He was promoted to president
of Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. in 2006, replacing Ken Kutaragi, developer of the PlayStation.  “The path we must take is clear: to drive the growth of
our core electronics businesses - primarily digital imaging,
smart mobile and game; to turn around the television business
and to accelerate the innovation that enables us to create new
business domains,” Hirai said in a statement.  The Japanese company is revamping the main TV business that
is forecast to lose 262.5 billion yen in the two years to March
2013 because of a strengthening yen against the dollar and euro,
and competition with rivals including Samsung.  Appreciating Yen  An appreciating yen that damps the repatriated value of
Sony’s overseas sales -- while a weakening won inflates Samsung
and LG’s -- and weakening consumer demand has prompted Sony to
 forecast  an unprecedented fourth consecutive annual loss in the
year to March. The company will discuss the health of its TV
business while reporting its third-quarter earnings today.  “Japanese TV makers are facing too many troubles; the
stronger yen, falling prices, sluggish demand and sliding market
share due to competition,” said  Yoshihiro Okumura , who helps
manage the equivalent of $365 million at Chiba-Gin Asset
Management Co. in Tokyo. “If they can introduce a hit product
or a next generation product, then the situation may change.”  The maker of Bravia televisions, Vaio computers and
PlayStation game consoles may project a wider loss than
predicted three months ago, according to  analysts’ estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. Sony in November said it may have a 90
billion yen loss in the year to March. That compares with the
147 billion yen average loss projected by 18 analysts. Sony
hasn’t had four consecutive years of losses since it was listed
in 1958.  Sony’s Slide  Sony, which slid by more than 60 percent since Stringer
took the helm in June 2005, fell 0.2 percent to $18.19 in New
York trading yesterday, after the announcement. The company’s
Tokyo shares weren’t traded today as the Tokyo Stock Exchange
suspended trading of 241 companies because of a computer glitch.  The stock  slumped  53 percent last year, lagging behind a 26
percent jump for  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and an 11 percent gain for Suwon,
South Korea-based Samsung.  “It was my honor to recommend him to the board for the
positions of president and CEO, because he is ready to lead, and
the time to make this change is now,” Stringer said in the
statement.  Sony, which exited a display-panel venture with Samsung and
bought out partner Ericsson AB’s stake in their mobile-phone
partnership, has introduced new tablet computers and game
devices to take on Apple and try to revive profit.  Sony’s rating was cut by Moody’s Investors Service last
month and  Fitch Ratings  in December, with both citing the
difficulty of turning around the unprofitable TV business.
Moody’s, which assigned a negative outlook to Sony, also
downgraded  Panasonic Corp. (6752) ’s rating.  Losing Value  Sony has been hobbled by a yen that reached a postwar high,
waning sales, a Japan earthquake that crippled factories and
Thailand flooding that cut production. Worth  $100 billion  in
September 2000, Sony is now valued at $18 billion, compared with
Cupertino, California-based Apple at $425 billion.  The world’s No. 3 TV maker lowered its annual sales
projection to 20 million sets from 22 million in November and
said it was taking a 50 billion yen charge for streamlining the
TV operation.  The company is countering with plans to write down the
value of some facilities, reduce the number of models and cut
expenses at its marketing units.  “There was such a huge expectation when Sony announced its
first foreign CEO,” said Koji Toda, chief  fund manager  at
Resona Bank Ltd. in Tokyo, which oversees the equivalent of $68
billion. “Hirai needs to rebuild Sony so that the company can
produce something that cannot be copied by others. Sony was once
such a company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  