-- Sony Names Hirai as Head to Succeed Stringer Amid TV Losses
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-02-01T09:24:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/sony-appoints-kazuo-hirai-as-president-and-ceo-replaces-stringer.html
Sony Corp. (6758) , predicting a fourth
consecutive year of losses, named Kazuo Hirai as chief executive
officer, replacing  Howard Stringer  after falling behind Apple
Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co.  Hirai, 51, will take charge of  Japan ’s biggest consumer-
 electronics exporter  on April 1, Sony said today. Stringer, 69,
will become chairman of the board after a shareholders meeting
in June.  The promotion of Hirai will test the games chief’s ability
to integrate the unprofitable  TV business  and computers with
content from its entertainment divisions. After the Walkman
dominated portable players in the 1980s, the Tokyo-based company
lost to Apple with the  iPod , failed to fend off Samsung in TVs
and saw  Nintendo Co. (7974)  take the lead in video-game consoles.  “Sony won’t change, whoever becomes president,” said
 Mitsushige Akino , who oversees $600 million at Ichiyoshi
Investment Management Co. in Tokyo. “Sony chose a foreigner,
but that didn’t change the company. That proves how difficult it
is. Sony has to show what the action plans are to convince
investors.”  Bravia, PlayStation  The maker of Bravia televisions, Vaio computers and
PlayStation game consoles scrapped a projection for a  profit  and
said in November it may have a 90 billion-yen ($1.2 billion)
loss in the year to March. Sony, which reports third-quarter
 earnings tomorrow , hasn’t had four consecutive years of losses
since it was listed in 1958.  “The path we must take is clear -- to drive the growth of
our core electronics businesses,” Hirai said in the statement.  Hirai, with backgrounds in the music and gaming industries,
will head a company whose stock slid by more than half since
Stringer took the helm in June 2005.  Sony fell 1.9 percent to 1,364 yen in Tokyo trading today,
before the announcement. The stock slumped 53 percent last year,
lagging behind a 26 percent jump for  Apple (AAPL)  and an 11 percent
gain for Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung.  “It was my honor to recommend him to the board for the
positions of president and CEO, because he is ready to lead, and
the time to make this change is now,” Stringer said in the
statement.  Hirai was one of the top four executives Stringer was
grooming and the only one who isn’t an engineer by trade.  TV Losses  The Japanese company is revamping the main TV business that
is forecast to lose money for an eighth consecutive year because
of a strengthening yen against the dollar and euro, and
competition with Samsung.  Sony, which exited a display-panel venture with Samsung and
bought out partner Ericsson AB’s stake in their mobile-phone
partnership, has introduced new tablet computers and game
consoles to take on Apple and try to revive profit.  “Hirai is a gentleman so the market will think he can’t
execute radical changes,” said Ryosuke Katsura, analyst at
Mizuho Securities Co. “The biggest issue is even if he can turn
around the TV business, the market is questioning how much he
can do.”  Hirai was born in  Tokyo  on Dec. 22, 1960. He grew up in
Japan and the U.S., graduating from the International Christian
University in Tokyo in 1984 with a bachelor’s degree in liberal
arts.  Cycling, Driving  After graduation, he joined a joint venture set up in Tokyo
by Sony and CBS Inc. The business later became Sony Music
Entertainment Inc., Sony’s main music unit.  Hirai is “loyal on one hand and well-educated in the
convergence products, and I think he has a charming
personality,” Stringer told reporters in Tokyo last year.  Hirai, whose hobbies include cycling, driving, as well as
collecting cameras, watches, model railroads and telescopes,
moved to Sony Computer Entertainment America in 1995 and became
president of the U.S. unit in 1999. He was promoted to president
of Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. in 2006, replacing Ken Kutaragi, developer of the PlayStation.  Sony’s rating was cut by Moody’s Investors Service last
month and  Fitch Ratings  in December, with both citing the
difficulty of turning around the unprofitable TV business.
Moody’s, which assigned a negative outlook to Sony, also
downgraded  Panasonic Corp. (6752) ’s rating.  Losing Value  Sony has been hobbled by a stronger yen that reached a
postwar high, waning sales, a Japan earthquake that crippled
factories and Thailand flooding that cut production. Its
November prediction of 90 billion yen in losses in the year
ending in March reversed an earlier forecast for a profit of 60
billion yen.  Sony, worth  $100 billion  in September 2000, is now valued
at $18 billion, compared with Cupertino, California-based Apple
at $425 billion.  The maker of Bravia TVs lowered its annual sales projection
to 20 million sets from 22 million and said it was taking a 50
billion-yen charge for streamlining the TV operation.  The company is countering with plans to write down the
value of some facilities, reduce the number of models and cut
expenses at its marketing units.  “I have unflagging resolve” to turn the TV business
around, Hirai said in November. Sony’s management “feels a
sense of crisis” about the unit’s losses, he said.  Since 2009, Stringer was grooming four executives as he
pushed Sony’s divisions to marry hardware products with film, TV,
game titles and music from the company’s entertainment
businesses.  Stringer replaced division leaders to spur cooperation and
cut 30,000 jobs to revive earnings. He traveled frequently
between his main office in  New York , the company’s Tokyo
headquarters, the movie division in  Los Angeles , and  London ,
where his family lives. He said in 2009 he wanted to remain on
the job until Sony completes a business plan in March 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  