-- Soros Sits Out Obama Super-PAC Money Race Beside Big Givers
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-02-01T05:01:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/soros-sits-out-obama-s-super-pac-money-race-beside-big-democratic-givers.html
George Soros , the billionaire
investor who bankrolled Democratic groups during George W. Bush’s presidency and then indicated in 2010 that his giving
days were over, is back.  He just isn’t giving to the political action committee
working to re-elect President  Barack Obama .  Soros is joined by million-dollar donors such as film
producer Stephen Bing and auto insurer Peter Lewis in not
contributing to Priorities USA, a group founded by former White
House aides to help return Obama to the White House. The pro-
Obama organization raised $1.2 million in the second half of
2011, bringing its yearly total to $4.4 million, according to
Federal Election Commission filings.  In 2011, Soros gave $75,000 to the House Majority PAC,
dedicated to returning the House to Democratic control, and
$100,000 to Majority PAC, an organization working to keep the
Senate in Democratic hands, according to the FEC reports.  “Most of the major progressive donors, such as Soros and
Bing, if they do give, are going to give to the committees that
have been established to recapture the Congress,” said  Anthony Corrado , a political scientist at Colby College in Waterville,
 Maine . “There’s a general sense, among the big progressive
donors, that the Obama campaign will be well-funded and where
the money is really needed is on  Capitol Hill .”  While Soros’s 2011 congressional contributions are small
compared with the more than $30 million that he gave in the
2004, 2006 and 2008 election cycles, Democrats say they want him
to do more, to counter so-called super-PACs formed by Karl Rove
and other Republicans.  House and Senate  “Given that our prospects in House and Senate races are
looking increasingly better, some in the Democratic community
certainly hope that donors like Soros and Bing come off the
sidelines so that our candidates have the resources needed to
match the GOP and their super-PACs,” said Karen Finney, a
Democratic strategist.  Soros has expressed ambivalence about a second term for
Obama and said in a Reuters interview in Davos,  Switzerland , on
Jan. 25 that he was “not the only one who has been slightly
disappointed” in Obama, while noting that “I continue to
support him.”  If the 2012 contest were between Obama and former
Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , Soros said that “there
isn’t that much difference, except for the crowd that they bring
with him.”  Michael Vachon , a spokesman for Soros, said that the
Hungarian-born financier has recently traveled to Myanmar, has
been working with emerging democracies in  Africa  and has not
been concentrating on the U.S. election.  European Crisis  “Soros’s focus has been on the crisis in  Europe  and no
decisions have been made on 2012,” he said. “He has not been
focused on U.S. politics.”  In 2004, Soros gave $23.7 million to Democratic groups,
according to the Center for Responsive Politics in  Washington .
For the 2006 election, he contributed $3.5 million to
organizations working to elect Democrats. Two years later, he
donated a total of $5 million, according to the non-profit group
that tracks campaign finances. Then in 2010, he indicated that
he was done with seven-figure political giving, calling his 2004
activism an “exception.”  Struggling to keep pace with American Crossroads, formed by
 Karl Rove , and Americans for Prosperity, founded by billionaire
 David Koch , the five main Democratic super-PACs have been
working together to court donors who are willing to write seven-
figure checks. Super-PACs are allowed to raise unlimited funds
from individuals, corporations and unions.  Any sharing arrangement reached by those Democratic groups,
and the bigger checks they want to collect, might not appear in
the 2011 disclosure reports, which don’t capture fundraising in
January.  Bill Burton , a former White House spokesman, who
founded Priorities USA with  Sean Sweeney , a former political
adviser at the White House, said that they weren’t concerned
about signing up specific donors like Soros.  “It’s not about any one particular individual,” he said.
“It’s about a community of Democrats who see a threat of
outside money and want to get involved and make sure the
President isn’t without a response.”  Gingrich Support  Former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  has benefitted from
$10 million in donations from Las Vegas billionaire  Sheldon Adelson  and his wife Miriam, according to a person close to him.  Bing, who gave $13 million in 2004 to Democratic
committees, contributed $250,000 to Majority PAC and $150,000 to
American Bridge 21st Century, a group that fact-checks
Republican and conservative claims, according to FEC reports and
the Center for Responsive Politics.  Peter Lewis, who contributed $23 million in 2004 to defeat
President  George W. Bush , gave $200,000 to American Bridge in
2011  Obama’s presidential campaign has out-raised his Republican
challengers in total donations and cash on hand. In 2011, Obama
for America raised $128 million and ended the year with
$81.8 million in cash.  Romney raised $57 million last year, more than any of his
Republican presidential rivals, and entered the primary season
with $20 million to spend.  Burton’s group, along with the other Democratic committees,
are essentially media funds will be ready to make large
commercial buys as soon as the donations arrive, said Simon Rosenberg, president of NDN, a Washington-based advocacy group
formerly called the New Democrat Network. Democratic donors,
after assessing the impact of the outside groups in Republican
contest, will soon start to donate, he said.  “The success of Romney’s super-PAC in wounding Gingrich
will force reluctant Democrats to get off the sideline and spend
more money on these outside groups in 2012 than they were
anticipating,” Rosenberg said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in New York at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  