-- South Africa’s Rand-Fueled Gold Earnings Buck Trend in U.S.
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2012-02-02T15:39:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/south-africa-s-rand-fueled-gold-earnings-buck-trend-in-u-s-.html
South African gold companies are set
to report gains in quarterly earnings, benefiting from the
largest slump in the rand in three years, as North American
peers contend with a decline in prices.  Harmony Gold Mining Co. (HAR) , a Johannesburg-based miner, may
post adjusted earnings of 1.49 rand ($0.19) a share for the last
quarter, up 57 percent from the previous three months, according
to the average estimate of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
 Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI)  and  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  may say profit rose
29 percent and 1 percent, respectively.  Gold companies in  South Africa , the continent’s largest
producer of the metal, gain from a weaker rand because they sell
much of their output for dollars and pay most costs in rand. The
nation’s currency fell 13 percent during the quarter from the
previous three months, its biggest decline in 12 quarters and
the largest among the 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  North American gold companies are set to report weaker
earnings than their South African counterparts after bullion
prices fell 1.2 percent in the fourth quarter from the third.
Canada’s Barrick Gold Corp., the biggest producer, and Newmont
Mining Corp., based in  Greenwood Village ,  Colorado , are expected
to post a decline in quarterly profit, analyst estimates show.  South Africa Gains  By contrast, South African competitors saw a 12 percent
jump in the local price of gold as the rand lost value. Harmony,
the country’s third-largest producer, gains most from a weaker
rand as it mines about 90 percent of its gold in South Africa.
AngloGold, the biggest, benefits least, with only about 40
percent of its output in the country. Gold Fields, the nation’s
No. 2 producer, mines half of its metal in South Africa.  The weaker rand will be “beneficial,” Percy Takunda, an
analyst at Imara S.P. Reid, said yesterday by phone from
Johannesburg. “I expect them to make strong statements on
dividends.”  AngloGold, which said Nov. 9 it will start paying dividends
quarterly, may declare a payout of 90 cents a share for the
fourth quarter, according to a  forecast  compiled by Bloomberg.
That would boost its dividend for the year by 85 percent to 2.70
rand. Gold Fields may propose a 1.80-rand dividend, boosting the
annual total by 79 percent to 2.80 rand, the  projections  show.  Gold Fields will probably say on Feb. 17 that quarterly
adjusted earnings rose to 3.67 rand a share from 2.84 rand,
according to the average estimate of four analysts. AngloGold
may post earnings of 9.04 rand a share on Feb. 15, up from 8.95
rand, five estimates show. Harmony is due to report on Feb. 6.  Analysts who track South African gold producers measure
quarter-on-quarter earnings excluding one-time items.  AngloGold led gains in the past six months, rising 23
percent to 355.89 rand by the close in Johannesburg trading
today. Gold Fields rose 19 percent to 128 rand over that time,
while Harmony declined 1.5 percent to 95.10 rand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  