-- South African Bonds Have Best Start Since 2003 on Rates Bets
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-02-01T13:25:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/south-african-bonds-have-best-start-since-2003-on-interest-rates-outlook.html
South African  government bonds  are
having their best start to the year since 2003 on speculation
the central bank will keep  interest rates  on hold to support the
economy even as inflation remains above its target.  Government fixed-rate debt returned 2.2 percent in January,
the most for that month since 2003, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes, compared with 0.9 percent for inflation-
linked securities. The bonds returned more than inflation-linked
notes for the first month since October, the indexes show.  Investors are adding to bets the South African  Reserve Bank 
will leave its  benchmark rate  at a 30-year low of 5.5 percent
this year, maintaining a yield advantage over the U.S. and euro
region. The  Federal Reserve  signaled last month it will leave
interest rates low through 2014 and may embark on a third round
of asset purchases, while the  European Central Bank  cut its
benchmark rate twice last year to 1 percent, fueling demand for
higher-yielding assets, including South African bonds.  “With the economy looking fragile, the Reserve Bank would
be extremely reluctant to hike rates,” Ian Cruickshanks, head
of treasury strategic research at Johannesburg-based Nedbank
Group Ltd., said by phone. “Also, there is a promise of greater
liquidity from the Fed and the ECB, and with that in mind our
bonds look very attractive at 7 or 8 percent.”  Recession Concern  The central bank left its repo rate unchanged for a seventh
consecutive monetary policy meeting on Jan. 19, citing concern
that the euro region is facing a recession, which would hurt
exports from  Africa ’s biggest economy. Forward-rate agreements
starting in 12 months have dropped 18 basis points, or 0.18
percentage point, to 5.84 percent in the past week.  The yield on  South Africa ’s 6.75 percent notes due 2021
dropped 24 basis points to 7.74 percent in January. The
securities yielded 7.71 percent as of 2:26 p.m. today.  South Africa’s economy will probably expand less than 3
percent this year as a possible recession in  Europe , which buys
about a third of South Africa’s manufactured exports, saps
demand, Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said on Jan. 26.
Gordhan, who will give updated growth forecasts in his budget
speech on Feb. 22, said in October the economy will grow 3.4
percent this year. The euro area will contract 0.5 percent as a
result of the worsening debt crisis, according to the
 International Monetary Fund .  Inflation  Inflation remained above the central bank’s 3 percent to 6
percent range for a second month in December and will probably
stay outside it for the rest of the year, Reserve Bank Governor
Gill Marcus said on Jan. 19. It was 6.1 percent last month,
according to the statistics agency.  “For offshore investors, local-denominated bonds can earn
attractive yields plus the possibility of additional positive
return on the rand’s recovery,” Michael Grobler, a Cape Town-
based analyst at Afrifocus Securities Ltd., said by e-mail. The
rand strengthened 3.6 percent in January, its best start to a
year since 2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Foreign investors were net buyers of 6.2 billion rand ($795
million) of South African bonds in January, compared with 2.8
billion of purchases in December and net sales of 12.4 billion
rand in January 2011, according to the JSE Ltd., which runs the
nation’s bond and stock exchanges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  