-- South Korea Central Bank Plans to Buy Chinese Stocks to Diversify Reserves
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o ,   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-02-01T03:38:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/south-korea-central-bank-plans-to-buy-chinese-stocks-to-diversify-reserves.html
South  Korea ’s central bank is
considering buying several hundred million dollars worth of
Chinese equities and a greater amount of the nation’s bonds to
diversify its  foreign-exchange reserves .  “The  Chinese yuan  has the potential to become a key
reserve currency in the long term and thus we are building a
channel to invest there,” Choo Heung Sik, 53, director general
at the Bank of Korea’s Reserve Management Group, said in an
interview in his office yesterday in  Seoul . He said the bank may
invest in Chinese shares in the second half of this year, after
purchases of debt in the first six months.  The diversification plans for South Korea’s $306 billion of
foreign-exchange holdings underscore increasing international
interest in yuan assets as  China ’s global economic stature rises
and its government promotes international use of its currency. A
slide in yields on U.S. Treasuries has diminished interest
income for the world’s largest reserve currency, the dollar.  “Our China investment will be done from a long-term
perspective and as part of our asset diversification plan,”
Choo said. “Our confidence in the U.S. dollar is still strong.
We will move like a snail as for diversification.”  Yield Premium  The BOK said Jan. 18 it received approval from the People’s
Bank of China to buy bonds and obtained a license as a Qualified
Foreign Institutional Investor, or QFII. Yields on five-year U.S.
Treasuries have averaged 1.41 percent in the past year, compared
with 3.52 percent for similar-maturity Chinese government debt,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Japanese officials said in December their nation will apply
to buy Chinese bonds this year. The Bank of  Thailand  opened an
office in Beijing to assess investments in the nation, then-
Deputy Governor Atchana Waiquamdee said in September in Bangkok.
Nigeria central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi said in a Sept. 7
interview in  Hong Kong  that his country will shift 10 percent of
its reserves into yuan as soon as possible.  The purchases will be the Bank of Korea’s first stand-alone
investment in yuan, said Choo, who has been engaged in reserve
management for most of his 30-year career. The BOK and 10 other
central banks in  East Asia  and the Pacific are jointly buying
local-currency denominated government and government-backed debt
in the region through the Asian Bond Fund II set up in 2005, he
said.  Yuan Gain  China’s currency strengthened almost 5 percent last year
against the dollar, the best performance among emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Officials haven’t decided yet whether to invest in stocks
directly or hire asset-management firms, Choo said. “We won’t
have an active stock investment strategy -- like keep on selling
and buying for extra returns,” he said. “Whether it’s bonds or
stocks, we will prioritize stable management.”  The  Bank of Korea  was the third South Korean investor this
year to announce being granted the approval to invest in China.
Last month, the National Pension Service, which had 346 trillion
won ($307 billion) in assets as of November, said it received a
QFII license, as did Korea Investment Corp., the nation’s $43
billion sovereign wealth fund.  Pension Fund  “China’s stock market itself has a big long-term growth
potential,” South Korea’s  National Pension  said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “China’s gross domestic product accounts
for about a tenth of the global output, while its stock market’s
portion in global markets lags behind that level,” the fund
said, adding that it also plans to seek “various” investment
opportunities within China.  South Korea ’s foreign-exchange reserves fell by $2.23
billion to $306.4 billion at the end of December from a month
earlier, according to a Bank of Korea report on Jan. 3. The
nation’s reserves are the world’s seventh-largest, according to
the report.  U.S. dollar-denominated assets account for 63.7 percent of
the BOK’s holdings as of the end of 2010, compared with 63.1
percent in 2009, the BOK said in its annual report released in
March 2011. The rest comprises investments in euros, yen, pounds
and Australian and Canadian dollars, Choo said.  The proportion of stocks in the reserves rose to 3.8
percent in 2010 from 3.1 percent in 2009, last year’s report
showed. The BOK also said last year that it bought 40 metric
tons of gold in 2011, the first purchases in more than a decade.  “We bought gold last year to diversify our reserves as it
can be a hedge against inflation and investment in the  U.S.
dollar ,” Choo said, declining to say whether the central bank
plans buying more.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net 
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net 
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net 
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net ; 