-- South Asian Companies Vulnerable to Weakening Demand, S&P Says
-- B y   R i n a   C h a n d r a n
-- 2012-02-01T09:38:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/south-asian-companies-vulnerable-to-weakening-demand-s-p-says.html
Companies in  India ,  Pakistan  and  Sri
Lanka  are vulnerable to a further weakening in domestic demand
in 2012 because governments have limited capacity to provide a
fiscal boost,  Standard & Poor’s  said.  While large companies can withstand a slowdown in demand
and rising input costs, the creditworthiness of their smaller
peers will probably deteriorate, S&P said in a report today. The
ratings company expects new capital expenditure investments to
slow in  South Asia  except Sri Lanka, especially for projects in
the electric utilities, metals and mining industries.  A deteriorating global economy has hurt Asian exporters, as
higher commodity prices and inflation raised costs and trimmed
companies’ profit margins. Shortages of fuel and distribution
capacity have forced India’s  Adani Power Ltd. (ADANI) , JSW Energy Ltd.
and Lanco Infratech Ltd. to postpone plans in December and
January to add $13.9 billion worth of capacity, part of about
$36 billion in delayed investments across the industry.  “Country risk continues to play an important role in the
credit profile of companies in South Asia,” S&P said in the
report. “The rise in risk in India is due to a perceived
increase in corruption and uncertainty in policies. Political
turmoil and an energy crisis have raised country risk in
Pakistan.”  The increase in risks is making it harder for companies to
manage their cash flows, form long-term strategies, and proceed
with investment plans, S&P said. Allegations of corruption in
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s cabinet triggered mass protests
across India last year, while a failure to contain inflation and
delays in several proposed laws have sapped investor confidence.  Access to Capital  India’s central bank expects growth in the year through
March 2012 to slow to 7 percent, while Pakistan cut its forecast
for expansion in the year through June to 3.6 percent.  Liquidity for the companies that S&P rates will remain
“adequate to strong” because of their large cash balances and
access to capital, credit analyst Mehul Sukkawala said in the
report today.  “The outlook on most of the companies that we rate in
South Asia is stable,” Sukkawala said. “These companies are
generally large in their respective markets and have diversified
operations, experienced managements, and strong financial
resources. This should help them sustain their credit
profiles.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rina Chandran in Singapore at 
 rchandran12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  