-- Spain to Unveil Bank Overhaul
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-02-02T18:53:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/spain-said-to-plan-to-buy-coco-bonds-from-banks-as-part-of-industry-revamp.html
Spain  will give struggling banks more
time to take their share of 50 billion euros ($65.7 billion) in
real estate charges if they agree to merge with other lenders.  Banks will have until the end of May to present merger
plans that will mean they get two years instead of one to make
additional provisions for real estate piled up on their balance
sheets, Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said at a Madrid news
conference today. They will also be able to offset charges for
the loss in value of the assets against capital instead of
profits, and receive financing from the government’s bank rescue
fund, he said.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy , in power since December,
pledged a “true restructuring” of the industry at no cost to
the taxpayer four years after the decade-long property boom
collapsed. Lenders have about 175 billion euros of what the Bank
of Spain terms “troubled” assets linked to real estate on
their books. The government wants to remove doubts about
valuations to help banks make loans and tap financing as it also
seeks to shrink the industry.  “The aim is for housing to come onto the market and for
Spanish banks, by being cleaner, stronger and more transparent,
to be able to extend credit, which is something that’s not
happening at the moment,” de Guindos said. “By improving the
transparency and the perception of strength of Spanish banks,
they will be able to finance themselves better, and that is
going to allow them to make loans.”  Provisions Ratio  The government will make banks increase the ratio of
provisions set aside for urban and rural land to 80 percent from
31 percent, de Guindos said. For unfinished developments, the
provisioning level will rise to 65 percent from 27 percent and
to 35 percent for other so-called “troubled” assets including
finished developments and houses, he said.  “It looks to me like a lot of stick and not very much
carrot -- these are tough rules that are going to cause a lot of
distress in the banking industry,” said  Ricardo Wehrhahn , a
partner at Roland Berger Strategy Consultants in  Madrid . “The
danger is that banks will be under pressure to seek mergers just
to gain some time instead of doing so for sound business or
economic reasons.”  The 50 billion euros in increased real estate charges for
banks will be in the form of 25 billion euros of provisions to
be taken against earnings, the economy ministry said.  Capital Buffer  Another 15 billion euros will be in the form of making
banks build a capital “buffer” for land and unfinished
developments, the ministry said. The remaining 10 billion euros
will come from a 7 percent provision against healthy developer
loans.  Banks that agree to merge will be able to tap Spain’s  FROB 
bank-bailout fund by selling contingent convertible bonds to the
facility, de Guindos said, adding the steps won’t affect the
country’s budget deficit. The bonds, known as CoCos, convert
into equity if capital ratios fall below a certain level.  To strengthen the FROB, the Treasury will increase its
equity to 15 billion euros from 9 billion euros, while the fund
will maintain its current capacity to issue as much as 90
billion euros of debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  