-- Spain Can’t Meet Budget Goal, Catalan Leader Tells PM Rajoy
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-02-01T20:15:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/spain-can-t-meet-budget-goal-catalan-leader-tells-pm-rajoy-1-.html
Spain can’t reach its budget goal
this year without “destroying” the welfare state, Catalan
President Artur Mas told Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy .  Rajoy didn’t contradict the Catalan leader at their meeting
today in  Madrid , said Mas, whose pro-business Convergencia i
Unio party often votes with the prime minister’s People’s Party
in national and regional parliaments.  “If he had told me it was possible I wouldn’t have
believed him,” Mas told reporters in Madrid. “There’s only one
way of doing it and that’s to destroy everything,” including
the “pillars of the welfare state,” he said.  Rajoy has said that Spain will cut its  budget deficit  to
4.4 percent of gross domestic product this year from the 8
percent shortfall his government estimates it inherited from the
previous administration. Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro
called on the European Union last month to ease the goal and to
take into account data that shows the economy is heading into
its second recession since 2009.  Mas also called for unspecified steps to give regional
administrations access to similar financing costs as those of
the central government. Investors demand about twice as much to
lend to Catalonia, the biggest of the 17 states, as to  Spain ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mas declined to comment on speculation Barcelona-based
 Caixabank SA (CABK)  may merge with Madrid-based Bankia SA, saying he
didn’t discuss the matter with Rajoy. Caixabank has denied it’s
in merger talks.  “They are private entities and they are the ones that have
to talk, in any case, about their possible agreements,” Mas
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  