-- Stanford Secretly Lent $2 Billion to His Firms, Witness Says
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-02-01T23:10:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/stanford-secretly-lent-2-billion-to-his-firms-witness-says-1-.html
A former Stanford Financial Group Co.
accountant testified that he grew concerned about $2 billion R.  Allen Stanford  secretly borrowed from his Antiguan bank after
hearing the company’s finance chief say repeatedly in 2007 and
2008, “The emperor has no more clothes.”  “I interpreted that to mean Mr. Stanford didn’t have any
money to cover this debt, nor did the companies have the money
to pay it back, and the bank didn’t have the money to pay it
back,” Henry Amadio, the accountant, told jurors today at
Stanford’s criminal fraud trial in federal court in Houston.  Stanford, 61, is accused of skimming more than $1 billion
in investor funds from his Antigua-based Stanford International
Bank Ltd. to fund a billionaire’s lifestyle and private
businesses ranging from Caribbean airlines to cricket
tournaments. Stanford, who faces as long as 20 years in prison
if convicted of the most serious charges, denies all wrongdoing.  Amadio, testifying for the government, told jurors he
prepared monthly reports tracking the financier’s personal loans
from the Antiguan bank, which prosecutors claim was at the heart
of an alleged $7 billion Ponzi scheme. The loans weren’t
disclosed to investors, he said.  Bank funds borrowed by Stanford flowed through several
intermediary companies before they were used to cover operating
losses and startup expenses at the financier’s affiliated
companies, Amadio testified. He said Stanford Financial Group
Chief Financial Officer James Davis instructed him to record
these loans as capital infusions into the companies rather than
as loans from Allen Stanford.  ‘No Other Option’  “There is not going to be repayment; there is no other
option,” Amadio said, reading to jurors from an e-mail he
received from Davis in 2007. In the e-mail, Davis said the
accounting treatment was directed by Stanford, the bank’s sole
shareholder.  Amadio said he worried that investors’ savings were being
secretly diverted to cover losses at Stanford’s other companies.  “The combined profits of the bank were not enough” to
provide Stanford sufficient legitimate profits to lend more than
$2 billion to his other businesses, Amadio testified. “The only
other conclusion was the money was coming from depositors’
accounts.”  Amadio told jurors he was ordered to strip all bank
records, including his reports tracking Stanford’s loans, from
computers at Stanford’s Houston headquarters and move them to a
portable hard drive in 2006, after U.S. securities regulators
began investigating the bank.  Regulatory Probe  He said he wasn’t told at the time about the regulatory
probe, only that the bank’s records must be kept in Antigua. He
said he carried the external hard drive containing the records
around the Houston offices in his computer bag, leading co-
workers to nickname the device “the football,” after the
portable controller containing nuclear launch codes that’s
carried at all times by aides to the U.S. president.  Amadio testified that he took the external hard drive home
with him when a court-appointed receiver seized the offices on
Feb. 17, 2009, and ordered employees to leave all computers in
the building. After recovering family photos and personal files
from the drive, he brought it back the next day and eventually
gave it to federal agents, who were looking for “the
football.”  Amadio said that after intense questioning by federal
agents that day in the Stanford offices, he became so nervous
that he fainted for several minutes. He said he’s still nervous
as he’s testifying under an agreement with the government, in
which prosecutors can still criminally charge him if he doesn’t
testify truthfully or changes his story on the witness stand.  ‘Charge You?’  “The government can still to this day charge you?”
Assistant U.S. Attorney Gregg Costa asked. Amadio replied,
“There is no promise; there is a risk.”  Robert Scardino, one of Stanford’s attorneys, asked the
accountant if he’d committed any crimes while working for the
financier.  “My intention was never to commit any crimes,” Amadio
said. “I’m not proud of myself for not making the right
decision and leaving the company. I regret looking the other
way.”  Stanford Financial’s global controller Mark Kuhrt, Amadio’s
former supervisor, was in court today during several hours of
Amadio’s testimony. Kuhrt was indicted with Stanford and is
scheduled to be tried on charges related to his role in the
alleged scheme after Stanford’s trial concludes.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09-cv-298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas ( Dallas ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in  San Francisco  at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 