-- Stanford Used Investor Funds for Lavish Resort, Prosecutor Says
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-02-01T06:39:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/stanford-accused-of-using-investor-money-on-island-resort-to-lure-the-rich.html
A prosecutor introduced a
$330 million promissory note signed by R. Allen Stanford as
evidence at his criminal trial that the financier secretly
borrowed money from his bank to build a lavish “Stanford World
in Antigua” and lure rich new clients.  “Rich people do not get impressed very easily,” Stanford
said in an undated video clip shown to his jury yesterday in
Houston federal court. “They have to go back literally blown
away, saying ‘I have a confidence and a trust that I will do
business in that part of the world.’”  Stanford, videotaped while speaking to a gathering in
Antigua, said his goal in building the private airplane hangar,
restaurants, cricket grounds and banking facilities on 20 acres
surrounding Stanford International Bank Ltd. was to convince the
“richest people in the world” it was safe to invest there.  Stanford, 61, was indicted in June 2009 on charges he led a
$7 billion investment fraud based on certificates of deposit
issued by the Antiguan bank. He’s accused of 14 counts including
mail fraud,  wire fraud  and obstruction of a probe by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. He denies the allegations.
If convicted on the most serious charges, he could be imprisoned
for 20 years.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Gregg Costa asked government
witness Arnold Knoche, a former president of Stanford
Development Corp., if he knew where the money came from for
“Stanford World in Antigua.”  ‘Personal Resources’  “He told me he had his personal resources, that he’d take
care of it,” Knoche testified in the second week of trial. “I
always wondered where the money was coming from because it was a
huge amount.”  Knoche testified that Stanford never said he used
depositors’ funds on real estate developments in the Caribbean
or elsewhere. He also said he never suspected illegal activity
during his 16 years with Stanford’s organization. Knoche said he
resigned in 2003 because he was tired of the constant travel.  Costa showed Knoche a copy of a Stanford International Bank
promissory note for $330 million signed by Stanford personally
in December 2003. Knoche said he wasn’t aware Stanford had
borrowed any money from his bank, and said he would have been
concerned if he had known.  “The depositors at the bank were told there were not loans
being made,” he said. Knoche said promotional materials for the
bank’s CDs said the funds were placed in conservative, liquid
investments and that the bank “has never made and will never
make loans.”  Annual Reports  After reviewing Stanford International Bank’s annual
reports for 2002 and 2003 on the witness stand, Knoche concluded
that Stanford’s promissory note wasn’t disclosed to depositors.  Prosecutors contend Stanford skimmed more than $1 billion
of depositor money for personal use, including funding the
Caribbean real estate ventures, several regional airlines, a
private fleet of airplanes and yachts, and a collection of
unrelated private equity investments.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09-cv-298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas ( Dallas ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in  San Francisco  at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 