-- U.S Refiners, Steelworkers Avert Strike With Tentative Three-Year Contract
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n   a n d   B a r b a r a   J .   P o w e l l
-- 2012-02-01T03:18:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/steelworker-reaches-tentative-3-year-contract-with-refiners-1-.html
The United Steelworkers union and
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  averted a potential strike that would have
idled as many as 69 refineries by tentatively agreeing to a new
three-year contract.  The proposal includes pay increases of 2.5 percent in the
first year and 3 percent in the second and third years, along
with some of the improvements in safety language sought by the
union, according to three labor representatives with direct
knowledge of the negotiations.  No details of the agreement were provided in separate
statements yesterday evening from the Steelworkers and Shell,
which represented industry in the talks. The proposal is subject
to a vote of the union members. Talks started Jan. 14 in Austin,
Texas, between the union representing 30,000 workers and Shell.
The old contract expired at midnight Houston time.  Other companies involved include  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) ,  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  BP Plc (BP/) ,  ConocoPhillips (COP) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Marathon Oil
Corp. (MRO) ,  Sunoco Inc. (SUN) ,  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  and PBF Energy Inc.  The proposal also includes the provision of a full-time
employee for overseeing safety standards for each bargaining
unit representing more than 150 people at a plant, according to
one of the union representatives.  Earlier Offers  The union rejected four earlier contract offers from Shell
that didn’t include changes on safety the union had asked for,
three union representatives said yesterday. The fourth contract
proposed a wage increase of 2 percent in the first year and 2.5
percent in each of the next two, the people said.  If no deal were reached, the union could have called a
strike or agreed to extend negotiations in 24-hour increments.  Valero would have continued to run its Port Arthur,  Texas ,
refinery, though it would have shut its facility in Memphis,
Tennessee, Chief Executive Officer Bill Klesse said on an
earnings conference call. Valero received a notice of intent to
strike at the Port Arthur plant if there was no national
agreement by the deadline.  Management at Conoco’s  Los Angeles (CPLACRUD)  and  Ferndale (CPFWCRUD)  refineries
and Exxon’s Torrance,  California , refinery requested contractors
to help operate their facilities in the event of a strike.  Exxon received a strike notice for its Billings, Montana,
refinery, Rachael Moore, a spokeswoman based in Fairfax,
Virginia, said in an e-mail.  Previous Walkout  The union hasn’t struck since 1980, when a stoppage lasted
three months. A walkout would have affected almost two-thirds of
U.S. refining capacity, according to the union.  The majority of local contracts expired yesterday and most
of the rest later in the winter and spring.  If approved, the agreement becomes the pattern that
companies will use in negotiating local contracts. The national
agreement addresses wages, benefits and health and safety. The
local agreements cover such areas as job duties.  Local units may still decide to strike if other companies
offer terms that don’t mirror the terms of the national
agreement.  Contracts between the companies and the local Steelworkers
members must incorporate the terms of the national agreement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net ;
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  