-- Steel Slows With Europe Setting Back ArcelorMittal: Commodities
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2012-02-01T08:17:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/steel-demand-slowing-with-europe-in-setback-to-arcelormittal-commodities.html
Steel demand worldwide is growing
slower than  forecast , eroding profit at producers including
ArcelorMittal and  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA)  and forcing investors to
revise their 2012 outlook for the $430 billion industry.  Global use of the alloy will rise 4.5 percent this year,
less than the 5.4 percent forecast in October by the World Steel
Association, according to the median estimate of 14 steelmakers,
analysts and traders surveyed by Bloomberg. Growth may be as low
as 1.2 percent, according to Bloomberg Industries analysts.  The gain, the lowest in three years, is tempered by cooling
economies in  China  and Europe, where orders for steel products
for houses, cars and machinery are stagnating and will keep the
alloy’s prices and overseas shipments muted, analysts said.  “I’m bearish on Europe’s demand outlook in view of the
negative impact from budget deficits and the debt crisis,” said
 Helen Lau , an analyst with Hong Kong-based brokerage UOB Kay
Hian. “China is maintaining its tightening stance on the
private property market and developers are still suffering from
tight bank credit and high inventory” of homes.  ArcelorMittal may report a profit of $157.6 million in the
three months ended Dec. 31, its worst quarterly earnings in a
year, according to the mean of five analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. Tata Steel, including its European unit, is
expected to report a 3.3 billion-rupee ($67 million) net income
in the same period, the worst fiscal third-quarter numbers in at
least five years, according to the average of 23 estimates.  Shares of Luxembourg-based  ArcelorMittal (MT)  rose 1.9 percent
to 15.67 euros as of 9:11 a.m. in Amsterdam. Tata shares rose as
much as 2.2 percent to 460.50 rupees and traded at 459.50 rupees
as of 1:42 p.m. in Mumbai.  Becoming Cheaper  Steel companies  are forecast to become cheaper, with a
price-to-earnings ratio forecast to decline to 8.5 times, from
almost 13 times currently, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg for the Iron/Steel index.  Prices of benchmark  hot-rolled coils  may average 5 percent
lower at about $734 a ton in 2012, compared with about $772 last
year, calculations based on Steel Business Briefing data show.  Steel production in China, which accounted for about 46
percent of the global total in 2011, fell in each of the six
months through November before gaining in December, according to
the World Steel Association, the Brussels-based trade group that
promotes the  steel industry .  The  World Bank  on Jan. 18 cut its global growth forecast by
the most in three years, saying that a recession in the euro
region threatens to exacerbate a slowdown in  emerging markets 
such as  India  and Mexico. The world economy will grow 2.5
percent this year, down from a June estimate of 3.6 percent, it
said. The euro area may contract 0.3 percent, compared with a
previous estimate of a 1.8 percent gain.  Furnace Closings  ArcelorMittal, the world’s biggest producer, said in
October it would idle plants in France,  Germany , Poland, Spain
and Luxembourg and permanently shut its blast furnaces in Liege,
Belgium, as demand wanes.  “Global economic conditions remain a concern with the euro
zone facing difficult credit conditions and fiscal policy
uncertainty,” Seshagiri Rao, group chief financial officer at
 JSW Steel Ltd. (JSTL) , India’s third-largest producer, said in Mumbai.
“Steel production last month fell below previous year’s levels,
which means high cost capacities are being closed and there is a
lower apparent steel demand.”  Chinese steel producers  Angang Steel Co. (000898) , the largest Hong
Kong-listed Chinese steel mill, swung to a loss last year and
 Maanshan Iron & Steel Co. ,  Nanjing Iron & Steel Co.  and  Aluminum
Corp. of China Ltd.  said on Jan. 30 that profit fell by more
than half as  China’s economy  slowed.  Stock Performance  U.S.-based Steel Dynamics Inc. and  Reliance Steel &
Aluminum Co. (RS)  are the best performers in the Bloomberg World
Iron/Steel Index over the past three months. Australian steel
mills BlueScope Steel Ltd. and Onesteel Ltd., battling a
stronger local currency and rising costs, are the laggards.  ArcelorMittal missed analyst estimates with its third-
quarter profit and said it faced volume and price pressures in
the final three months of 2011.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , Germany’s
largest steelmaker, will report “significantly lower” first-
quarter earnings, Chief Executive Officer Heinrich Hiesinger
said on Dec. 2.  “While  Europe  is trying to retrieve itself from the brink
of a recession, China is aiming to cool demand,” said  Niraj Shah , an analyst at Fortune Equity Brokers Ltd. in Mumbai.
“China will be a wild card -- there are chances it may lower
 interest rates  that may boost steel demand.”  Global demand climbed 15.4 percent in 2010, 6.5 percent
last year and may grow 5.4 percent this year, the World Steel
Association said in its Oct. 12 forecast. Consumption contracted
in 2008 and 2009, according to the  association ’s 2011 Steel
Statistical Yearbook.  Prices Falling  “It’s going to be a year of lower profits for most steel
companies,” Peter Marcus, managing partner at World Steel
Dynamics, said in an interview in  New Delhi  on Jan. 27,
predicting demand may contract 2 percent this year. World Steel
Dynamics, based in Englewood Cliffs,  New Jersey , forecasts steel
prices.  China’s economic growth may drop to 8.5 percent this year
from 9.2 percent in 2011, according to the median of 15
economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Orders continue to
remain weak in the world’s fastest growing major economy,
according to a Macquarie Group Ltd. report last month.  “Unless China loosens its tightening on the private
property sector, it will be hard for steel demand to grow at
last year’s estimated growth rate of 8.5 percent,” Lau said.  China Growth  China’s gross domestic product grew 8.9 percent in the
fourth quarter from a year earlier, the slowest pace in 10
quarters. The fourth straight quarterly slowdown in the world’s
second-largest economy is adding to concerns global expansion is
faltering, with the International Monetary Fund warning of near-
zero growth in Europe.  The financial crisis in Europe will prompt the region’s
steelmakers to cut output and import less  iron ore  next year,
London-based marine consultancy Drewry Shipping Consultants Ltd.
said on Dec. 19. Mills have begun to cut production and the full
impact of the reduction will be seen in 2012, it said.  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded nine European nations on Jan.
13, saying recent policy steps may prove “insufficient” to
contain the fiscal crisis.  The global steel trade may fall as much as 5 percent in
2012 after rising an estimated 6.2 percent to 410 million tons
in 2011, Phil Hunt, operations manager at London-based
International Steel Statistics Bureau, said in an e-mailed reply
on Jan. 23. Shipments from India may rise as local producers add
capacities, Marcus said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at   rkeenan5@bloomberg.net 
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  