-- Stocks ‘Untouchable’ to Arbess on Taint of Short Selling: China Overnight
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-02-01T23:23:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/stocks-untouchable-to-arbess-on-taint-of-short-selling-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks  traded in the U.S.
have been tainted by allegations of fraud involving companies
like  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE)  and are “pretty much untouchable,”
according to Perella Weinberg Partners LP’s Daniel Arbess.  The Bloomberg China-US 55 index of Chinese stocks listed in
New York slid 8.3 percent last year, after surging 54 percent in
2009 and 2010, as short sellers -- traders who bet asset prices
will fall -- highlighted accounting irregularities by companies
traded in North American markets.  Muddy Waters  LLC’s Carson Block alleged Sino-Forest and
U.S.-traded digital advertiser Focus Media Holding Ltd.
overstated assets, spurring a regulatory investigation into the
timber company and a 39 percent plunge in Shanghai-based Focus
Media’s American depositary receipts the day Block’s report was
released.  Short sellers have “clobbered the valuation of the
companies,” Arbess said at the  Bloomberg Link   China  conference
in  New York  yesterday. “Once somebody yells fire, the market’s
inclination is to get out of the building and worry about that
later.”  Arbess has previously said Block’s claims about Chinese
companies are unproven.  The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index  of the most-traded Chinese
New York-listed stocks climbed 1.6 percent to 104.96 in New
York, the highest close in almost five months. Commodity
producers led by  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  and  China Petroleum and Chemical
Corp.  widened their premiums over  Hong Kong  shares on signs
manufacturing from China to  Germany  and the U.S. is
strengthening.  Focus Media Surges  ADRs of Cnooc, China’s biggest offshore energy producer,
gained 3.7 percent to $210.91 to trade at a 2.3 percent  premium 
over shares listed in Hong Kong. China Petroleum and Chemical,
known as Sinopec, gained 2.4 percent to $123.05, expanding its
premium to Hong Kong to 1.1 percent.  Focus Media (FMCN) , which Muddy Waters’ Block said embellished the
size of its advertising network and paid too much for
acquisitions that were subsequently written down, surged 9.9
percent to $21.97 in New York, its biggest one-day gain since
November. It was the biggest gainer on the China-US 55 index.
Focus Media denied Block’s assertions on Nov. 22, saying that
his report reflected a misunderstanding of its business.  Chinese equities are cheap and offer some of the best
returns among global stocks, Kevin Pollack, a  fund manager  at
Paragon Capital LP in New York, which invests in U.S.-traded
Chinese shares, said at the Bloomberg Link conference.  ‘Growth Story of Our Lifetime’  “There is a cleaning up process taking place right now and
not every short seller attack is a success,” he said. U.S.-
traded shares in Chinese companies will rise as the nation is
the “growth story of our lifetime,” Pollack said.  Investors that are unwilling to buy Chinese stocks because
of the taint of the fraud allegations will find it difficult to
get exposure to the nation’s Internet, real estate, construction
materials and retail sectors, Arbess said.  Casino operator  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL)  gained 5.3
percent to $11.75 in New York as Macau, the world’s largest
gambling hub and the only Chinese city where public gambling is
permitted, reported casino revenue rose 35 percent in January,
beating analysts’ estimates. Melco Crown’s ADRs traded at a 4.7
percent premium over its Hong Kong shares.  U.S. manufacturing grew at the fastest pace in seven months
in January, data released yesterday by the  Institute for Supply
Management  in Tempe,  Arizona  showed. China’s official
manufacturing index unexpectedly showed expansion in the world’s
second-largest economy, while a gauge from HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics reached the highest level in three months. Data
from the U.K,  India , and Germany also showed manufacturing
increased last month.  No Hard Landing  “The data today do help the whole story that maybe the
economy isn’t as weak as some people feared,” Geoffrey Dennis,
a global emerging-market equity strategist at Citigroup Inc,
said by phone from Moscow. “Gradually the concerns about a  hard
landing  in China will begin to fade. At the same time they will
be easing fiscal and monetary policy.”  The Chinese  economy  will probably grow at an average 8
percent to 10 percent over the next 10 years,  David Rubenstein ,
co-chief executive officer of private-equity firm Carlyle Group
LP and Stephen Leeb, president of Leeb Capital Management Inc.
in New York both said at the Bloomberg Link conference. Gross
domestic product expanded 8.9 percent in the last three months
of 2011, the slowest pace for 10 quarters.  Internet Stocks ‘Attractive’  Investors wanting to hedge against a possible hard landing
in China should bet on declines in Chinese stocks and
commodities, Gary Shilling, president of economic consulting
firm A. Gary Shilling & Co., said at the conference today.  Indexes in Hong Kong and  Shanghai  fell yesterday on
speculation the government may refrain from immediate loosening
of monetary policy to stoke growth. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  slid 0.4 percent to 11,253.80 in Hong Kong and
the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  lost 1.1 percent to 2,268.08.  There are some “bargains” among U.S.-listed Chinese
stocks and a lot of opportunities in Internet companies, Paragon
Capital’s Pollack said. “Chinese web IPOs in particular is a
very attractive area,” he said, referring to companies that
have conducted initial public offerings. Pollack said he used to
have short positions on the sector.  Online video website-operator  Youku Inc. (YOKU)  gained 7.1 percent
to $22.91 in New York yesterday, while  Sina Corp (SINA) ., which
operates a service similar to Twitter, added 5.2 percent to
$73.89. Social-networking site  Renren Inc. (RENN)  slid 9.7 percent to
$5.01 and online bookseller  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG)  fell
4.8 percent to $7.  Facebook Inc., the dominant social networking site, filed
to raise as much as $5 billion in an initial public offering in
New York yesterday. The company didn’t specify the number or
price of shares it will offer.  The iShares  FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., climbed 1.5 percent to $39.42.
The fund is a popular way to trade China in New York “because
it is liquid,” Kevin Carter, co-founder and chief executive
officer at Baochuan Capital Management LLC, said at the
conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net 
Ye Xie in New York at   yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  