-- Stocks Gain as Dollar, Treasuries Fall on Manufacturing Recovery Outlook
-- B y   M i c h a e l   S h a n a h a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-02-01T21:43:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/stocks-advance-in-europe-before-u-s-manufacturing-report-bunds-decline.html
Stocks (SXXP)  rose, halting a four-day drop
in U.S. benchmark indexes, while the dollar fell and Treasuries
snapped a five-day advance on signs global manufacturing is
strengthening. Hogs led commodity gains, while natural gas slid.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.9 percent to close
at 1,324.09 at 4 p.m. in  New York  and the Dow Jones Industrial
Average climbed 83.55 points to 12,716.46, trimming an earlier
152-point rally that sent it above its highest close since May.
Ten-year Treasury yields increased three basis points to 1.83
percent, while the Dollar Index fell 0.5 percent, amid lower
demand for safer assets. The euro rallied 0.5 percent to
$1.3155, nearing its highest level of 2012.  U.S.  manufacturing  grew at the fastest pace since June,
according to data from the  Institute for Supply Management ,
while a government report showed construction spending increased
more than forecast. The U.K.’s  factory  measure unexpectedly
reached an eight-month high and manufacturing gauges in  Europe ,
 China  and  India  increased in January. A spokesman said  Greece 
expects to complete talks on a private sector debt swap and a
second rescue deal in coming days.  “The news on the economy is better,”  David Sowerby , a
Bloomfield Hills, Michigan-based portfolio manager at Loomis
Sayles & Co., which oversees $150 billion, said in a telephone
interview. “The uncertainty in Europe has diminished. While
corporate profits have been less robust, they are still growing.
Stock  valuations  had reflected a potential profit recession,
which is not going to happen. That’s what’s moving stock prices
higher.”  Rebound After Slump  The  S&P 500  rebounded after its longest losing streak since
November and the Dow Jones Industrial Average snapped its first
four-day slump since August. The S&P 500 started the session
trading for about 13.7 times its companies’ earnings and has
been stuck below its five-decade average multiple of 16.4 since
May 2010, the longest stretch since a 13-year period beginning
in 1973.  Profits have  topped  estimates at about two-thirds of the
209 companies in the S&P 500 that released results since Jan. 9,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Earnings-per-share have risen
2.3 percent for the group amid 6.5 percent growth in sales.  Financial, industrial and commodity companies rallied 1
percent or more to lead gains in all 10 of the main industries
in the S&P 500 today. A gauge of S&P 500 technology  stocks (SXXP)  rose
to the highest level since 2001. The ISM’s U.S. manufacturing
index increased to 54.1 in January from 53.1 in December. Fifty
is the dividing line between growth and contraction, and the
 median  forecast in a Bloomberg News survey called for an
increase to 54.5.  Economic Data  Construction spending in the U.S. increased in December at
the fastest pace in four months, reflecting broad-based gains
that signal the industry is stabilizing. Building outlays  grew 
1.5 percent, Commerce Department figures showed, triple the rate
of the median economist estimate in a survey.  Bank of America Corp.,  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and United
Technologies Corp. climbed at least 2.4 percent to lead gains in
the Dow.  Morgan Stanley rose 4 percent as people with knowledge of
the matter said Facebook Inc. chose the firm to take the lead on
its planned initial public offering. Broadcom Corp., a maker of
chips that help mobile devices connect to the Internet, gained
8.1 percent after forecasting sales that may top estimates.
Whirlpool Corp. advanced 13 percent, the most in almost three
years, as the world’s largest appliance maker projected earnings
that beat forecasts.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  tumbled 7.7 percent after the world’s
largest Internet retailer reported sales that missed estimates.  ‘Golden Cross’  The S&P 500 is up 20 percent from last year’s low in
October. Its 50-day moving average rose yesterday above the 200-
day moving average for the first time since  August. (INDU)  The pattern,
known as a  golden cross , may signal the rally will continue,
according to some technical analysts and investors whose
decisions are influenced by price charts.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against
those of six trading partners, snapped a two-day advance.  Stocks also climbed after companies added 170,000 workers
in January, reflecting job gains in services and at small
businesses, according to a report from ADP Employer Services
based on payrolls. The increase was less than the 182,000
forecast by economists. Government data in two days is forecast
to show a 163,000 gain in private jobs, while total payrolls
increased 145,000, according to the median economist
projections.  Commodities  Wheat futures rose to a four-month high, climbing 1.2
percent to $6.7425 a bushel, as sub-zero temperatures spread
across  Russia  and parts of Europe, raising concern that winter
crops may suffer damage where snow is insufficient to insulate
fields. Lean hogs, silver, soybeans and copper rallied more than
1.3 percent to lead gains in 18 of 24 commodities tracked by the
S&P GSCI Index, while declines in oil and natural gas left the
gauge little changed.  Oil slipped 0.9 percent to a six-week low of $97.61 a
barrel after government data showed U.S. inventories increased
more than forecast.  Natural gas futures fell 4 percent in New York after Exxon
Mobil Corp., the largest U.S. gas producer, said it hasn’t
curbed drilling even though rising U.S. output and mild weather
drove prices to a 10-year low.  Gas has dropped 20 percent this year, the biggest loser on
the S&P GSCI commodity index. Exxon said yesterday that it’s
bullish on gas, while Chesapeake Energy Corp. and ConocoPhillips
last week announced output cuts. Temperatures may be above
normal in most of the U.S. through Feb. 15, according to MDA
EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg,  Maryland .  The U.S. 10-year Treasury note fell for the first time in
six days. German bunds dropped, with the 10-year yield
increasing seven basis points to 1.85 percent, as the nation
sold 4.093 billion euros ($5.37 billion) of 2 percent, 10-year
securities at an average yield of 1.82 percent.  European Bonds, Stocks  Portugal ’s 10-year bond yields slid 118 basis points to
15.22 percent and the two-year note yield tumbled 176 basis
points to 18.79 percent as borrowing costs declined when the
nation auctioned 1.5 billion euros of bills.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index jumped 2 percent to a six-month
high as about 15 stocks gained for each that fell. ICAP Plc
jumped 7.7 percent as the world’s biggest broker of transactions
between banks said annual pretax profit will be at the “upper
end” of analyst estimates. Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA
and  Banco Popolare SC (BP)  led a rally in Italian banks, advancing
more than 10 percent.  A manufacturing gauge based on a survey of purchasing
managers in the euro region rose to 48.8 from 46.9 in December,
London-based Markit Economics said today. It had previously
reported a gain to 48.7. A reading below 50 indicates
contraction. A German output gauge reached the highest in six
months, while Austria also reported an expansion, Markit said.  Default Swaps  The cost of insuring against default on European sovereign
debt fell, with the Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of
credit-default swaps on 15 governments declining 15 basis points
to 324.5 basis points.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 1.1 percent after the
21st Century Business Herald reported new loans in January may
be below 1 trillion yuan ($158.6 billion). New loans exceeded
that amount every January over the past three years, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China’s purchasing managers’ index rose from 50.3 in
December to 50.5 in January, the nation’s statistics bureau and
logistics federation said in a statement.  Emerging Markets  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  advanced 1 percent, heading
for its highest level since Sept. 1. The  ISE National 100 Index 
jumped 3.6 percent in Istanbul and the  Micex Index (MICEX)  advanced 1.7
percent in Russia. Benchmark indexes rose at least 1.3 percent
in Poland and  Hungary .  Equities around the world got off to the best start in 18
years, topping gains in commodities and handing investors
January’s best returns, as U.S. economic growth shows signs of
accelerating and European leaders move closer to a solution on
the region’s debt crisis.  The MSCI All-Country World Index rose 5.8 percent including
dividends in January as  banks  and mining companies rallied 9.3
percent or more, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Total Return Index of metals, fuels and
agricultural products added 2.2 percent, the most since October.
The U.S. Dollar Index, a gauge of the currency against six major
peers, fell 1.1 percent last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Shanahan in London at 
 mshanahan3@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  