-- Suncor May Slow Plans to Boost Output If Costs Rise
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2012-02-02T14:20:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/suncor-energy-fourth-quarter-profit-rises-on-higher-oil-prices.html
(Corrects year in third paragraph of story published
Feb.1.)  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) , Canada’s largest
energy company by market value, may increase oil production more
slowly than it had planned if labor and supply costs rise.  “Volume is not the most important piece,” President and
designated Chief Executive Officer  Steve Williams  said during a
conference call today. The company will adjust its expansion
plans if “quality or costs come under pressure.”  Suncor wants to increase output to 1 million barrels a day
by 2020 as it expands oil-sands operations with technology that
steams bitumen underground and pumps it to the surface, a
process known as steam-assisted gravity drainage. The company’s
target of 1 million barrels a day is equivalent to about a third
of  Canada ’s current daily crude production, according to
Canada’s  National Energy Board .  “They’re being more vocal about being disciplined and
focused on costs,” Phil Skolnick, a New York-based analyst at
Canaccord, said in an interview today. “It’s a dramatic change
from the last cycle when everyone grew for the sake of
growing.” Skolnick rates Calgary-based Suncor’s shares “buy”
and doesn’t own any.  Alberta , with a population of about 3.7 million and one of
the fastest-growing economies in Canada, faces labor shortages,
especially in the oil and gas sector, Mario Lefebvre, an
economist at the Conference Board of Canada, said in an
interview in September. Investment in Alberta’s oil sands is
about C$20 billion annually, according to the Canadian
Association of Petroleum Producers.  Fourth-Quarter Earnings  Suncor said it benefited from higher  oil prices  in the
fourth quarter, helping net income rise to C$1.43 billion ($1.43
billion), or 91 cents a share, from C$1.29 billion, or 82 cents,
a year earlier, according to a statement yesterday.  Oil (CL1)  traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  gained 10
percent in the quarter, averaging $94.06 a barrel compared with
$85.24 a year earlier. Suncor’s average daily  production  was the
equivalent of 576,500 barrels of oil a day.  The company’s expansion plans include steam-assisted
operations at its Firebag project and a joint venture with Total
SA. Suncor will invest C$7.5 billion this year and doesn’t plan
to make acquisitions at the moment, outgoing Chief Executive
Officer Rick George said during the conference call.  Even with planned expansions by Suncor and competitors, the
industry faces no “major concerns” regarding pipeline capacity
for another four or five years, said George. “I don’t see crude
getting backed up into Alberta,” he said.  Producers in Canada faced a setback earlier this year when
U.S. President  Barack Obama  denied a permit to  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) 
to build the Keystone XL pipeline to carry oil-sands crude to
the  Gulf Coast .  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) , Canada’s largest oil pipeline
owner, is also proposing a pipeline to carry crude from Alberta
to British Columbia’s Pacific coast.  Suncor fell 3 cents to C$34.51 at the close in Toronto
today. The stock has 18 buy and five hold ratings from analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  