-- Super Bowl Meaty Fare Needs Manning Up: Sub Zinfandel for Beer
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-02-01T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/super-bowl-meaty-fare-needs-manning-up-sub-zinfandel-for-beer.html
Super Bowl parties are notorious for
watery beer served with meaty dishes, when a fruity, spicy
zinfandel would pair much better. Will tailgate gourmands
listen?  I took a party of wine aficionados to the parking lot
before an Oakland Raiders football game. The Raider Nation is
 famous  for its food, signaled by billows of black smoke rising
from hundreds of grills and cooking tents every game day.  One potential snag -- the team’s fans, Hunter S. Thompson
once said, are “the sleaziest and rudest and most sinister mob
of thugs and wackos ever assembled.” A wine-collecting couple I
invited along quickly backed out when they heard the location.  Maybe they’ve mellowed. We approached a man suiting up in a
metal-spiked Darth Vader helmet with skull mask, calling himself
Raidertore. We asked if he wanted to try some zinfandel.  “That’s weird,” he said. “I only drink beer.”  The wine collectors who did join me included  Mark Johnson ,
chief executive officer of iPad application Zite, which was
acquired by  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s  CNN  last year. He goes by the
Twitter handle @philosophygeek.  Zinfandel is one of  California ’s oldest wine-grape crops,
with vines planted more than a century ago still producing.
During the past decade winemakers have embraced a bigger, more
alcoholic style that can be hard to swallow with food.  Sugar Content  “I don’t buy it anymore because they’re holding the
alcohol at unreasonable levels,” said Charles Sullivan, author
of “ Zinfandel: A History of a Grape and Its Wine ,” in an
interview. “It’s remarkable how between the early 1980s and
today the sugar content has risen.”  Things seemed to be shifting back recently, according to my
unscientific assessment at last year’s annual  Zinfandel
Advocates & Producers’  tasting in  San Francisco . To better
evaluate the current crop, I secured bottles from a wide range
of producers, including Artezin, Bruliam, Caymus, Dry Creek,
Four Vines, Frank Family, Hendry, Peachy Canyon, Ravenswood,
Three Wines, Vineyard 1869 and Talty.  Seeking a guide through potential pitfalls on the
tailgating menu, I connected with Raymond St. Martin, a member
of the  Grill Iron Gang . This is a group of regulars in the
Raider Nation who go all out in their food exploits every
weekend.  Malt-Liquor Mushrooms  The Gang’s offerings included aluminum pans filled with
ribs, jambalaya, rib-eye and other hot smoked meats. Our
favorite item was the malt-liquor mushrooms, which went
surprisingly well with our wines.  We lined up the bottles like trophies and urged the crowd
to sample. One reluctant sipper told me he had seen a woman
drinking wine at a tailgate from a beer can to hide her shame.  Among the collectors, opinions were split. Ravenswood’s
2008 Teldeschi Vineyard and the Bruliam 2009 Rocky Ridge scored
the highest with one, while another preferred the William Talty
Vineyards 2008 Estate Zinfandel.  My personal bests were Hendry 2009 Blocks 7 & 22, the 2009
Frank Family and the 2009 Heritage Vineyard, a special bottle
produced by the Zinfandel Advocates & Producers.  St. Martin quickly took to the 2008 Caymus, only available
from the winery’s Napa tasting room and his favorite of the
bunch.  “Like football itself, the Caymus Zin smacked me right in
the mouth,” he said. “The Ridge blend was a close second, but
was much smoother.”  ( Ryan Flinn  is a reporter for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 