-- Surf Sound, Sequined Singers Get Melded by Girls: NYC Music
-- B y   J a i m e   W i d d e r
-- 2012-02-01T17:24:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/surf-sound-sequined-singers-melded-by-boys-in-girls-nyc-music.html
Flowers festooned the stage at
 Terminal 5  on Jan. 14, from the microphone stands to the
keyboards and drums. This was not a Metallica night.  It was the biggest New York show yet for the five-piece
band Girls, who were joined by three backup singers in sequined
dresses.  Frontman and founder Christopher Owens wore an unbuttoned
flannel shirt over a denim skirt. Style issues faded with the
opening guitar lick and drum beat of “Alex.”  The blissful West Coast surf vibe of “Honey Bunny”
followed with guitar conjuring a dreamy state. Material from the
excellent 2011 sophomore release, “Father, Son, Holy Ghost,”
continued as an organ intro made way for the somber and toned-
down “My Ma.”  Owens grew up in the Children of God cult, broke away in
his teens and found himself in his mid-20s in  San Francisco ,
where he formed Girls with bassist Chet “JR” White. They
released their  debut album , “Album,” in 2009, one of the
year’s best records. The equally impressive EP “Broken Dreams
Club” quickly followed in 2010.  They performed the EP’s pop gem “Heartbreaker,” and then
Owens’s hand chopped his guitar strings for the debut album’s
“Laura.” White bounced around the stage in his leather jacket
and the audience sang along.  ‘Lust for Life’  For a band that melds musical styles across generations,
the doo-wop feel of “Love Like a River” was no surprise. The
back-up vocalists provided “ooohs” and “aaahs” as the
audience swayed in mellow-land and sang the final words, “My
love is like a river.” The theme of yearning for love continued
on the brief but very antsy “Lust for Life.” Clapping along
was a must for this one.  Then came the night’s heaviest moment. The sequined singers
asked, “ New York , are you ready? ... Make some noise!!!” The
blistering rock of “Die” took over in an onslaught of
distortion, drums colliding and ripping slide guitar.  The stage lights quickly faded to black as the opening
notes to “Vomit” rang out. It was the longest song of the
night and got us ready for the summer feel of “Magic.” Bouncy
keys and more slide work was all this little ditty needed. The
set came to an end on the bluesy “Darling,” followed by
applause and smiles for the chameleon California sounds of the
boys in Girls.  Bjork With ‘Biophilia’  February brings the ever so eclectic Bjork with her latest
album, “Biophilia.” She is performing in the round,
accompanied by a 24-piece female Icelandic choir, visuals from
artist Max Weisel, and custom-made instruments. Shows at the
Queens New York Hall of Science are: Feb. 3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18;
at  Manhattan ’s Roseland Ballroom: Feb. 22, 25, 28 and March 2.  Axl Rose’s latest edition of Guns N’ Roses comes to:
Roseland Ballroom on Feb. 10, Terminal 5 on Feb. 12 and  Webster
Hall  on Feb. 15. Will Axl take the stage on time? Who knows?  Here’s a selection of New York-area shows in February.
Please note that opening bands aren’t always listed. Shows
marked (SO) are sold out, although online services such as
Craigslist often have tickets.  (Jaime Widder works in sales for Bloomberg News. Any
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Jaime Widder in New York at 
 jwidder@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 