-- U.K. More Productive, More Stressed Than When Queen’s Rule Began
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-02-01T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/u-k-is-more-productive-more-stressed-than-when-queen-started-her-reign.html
British workers are four times more
productive than at the start of Queen Elizabeth II’s reign in
1952, though they’re also more stressed, the Chartered Institute
of Personnel and Development said.  The value of economic output is four times greater than 60
years ago, even though the 920 million hours worked each week is
about the same, the CIPD, an association for human-resource
professionals, said in a report published today in London. The
report was produced as the queen prepares to mark her diamond
jubilee in June.  While the length of the working week has fallen by 10
hours, the pay gap between rich and poor has widened and
unemployment has increased, the report said. A “sharp
increase” in stress can be seen in the 52 percent of employees
now subject to computer surveillance at work, and the  claimant-
count unemployment rate  has risen to 5 percent from 2.2 percent.  “People do not seem much happier about their working lives
and many exhibit the symptoms of work-related stress,”  John Philpott , the CIPD’s chief economic adviser, said in a
statement. “The lesson of the past six decades is that
increased productivity and prosperity isn’t enough to enhance
the common good in the workplace or society in general.”  The number of workers employed in the public sector has
held at 6 million, the report said. While half of public workers
in the 1950s were at nationalized industries and public
corporations, most now are public-service providers in schools,
hospital and local authorities, or are managing those services.  Recruitment company Reed said in a separate report that its
gauge of new jobs rose 9 percent in January from a year earlier
on higher demand in marketing and public relations, real-estate
agents and retail. The Reed Job Index rose to 123, up 10 points
on the year and 2 points on the month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  