-- Manufacturing Output in U.K. Unexpectedly Returns to Growth After Declines
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-02-01T09:53:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/u-k-factory-gauge-rose-to-eight-month-high-in-january.html
A U.K.  manufacturing  index jumped to
an eight-month high in January and unexpectedly returned to
growth after a quarter of contraction as production rebounded.  The factory gauge, based on a survey by  Markit Economics 
and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply , rose to
52.1 from a revised 49.7 in December, Markit said in a report on
its website today. The median forecast of 28 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a reading of 50, the level that
divides expansion from contraction.  Separate reports today showed manufacturing indexes for
 Europe , China and  India  also rose in January. Still, the debt
crisis in the euro area, the U.K.’s biggest export market, has
dimmed the outlook for manufacturers, and Bank of England
Governor  Mervyn King  said last week that policy makers can
increase stimulus again if needed to aid the economy.  “The U.K. manufacturing sector has sprung to life in the
first month of 2012 to defy any economic gloom, but it is too
early to say whether this trend is sustainable,” CIPS Chief
Executive Officer  David Noble  said in the report. “The boost in
output is also welcome, but in reality is bolstered by
manufacturers working through existing backlogs, which can only
be a short-term fix.”  Global Indexes  A  manufacturing gauge  based on a survey of purchasing
managers in the 17-nation euro region rose to 48.8 from 46.9 in
December, London-based Markit Economics said today. The official
Chinese purchasing managers’ index increased to 50.5 from 50.3
in December. The data may have been distorted by a weeklong
holiday. A separate Chinese gauge from HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics rose to 48.8. India’s manufacturing grew at the
fastest pace in eight months.  The U.K.  economy  shrank 0.2 percent in the fourth quarter
as manufacturers cut output and services stagnated, leaving
Britain on the brink of another recession.  The IMF last week cut its 2012 British growth forecast to
0.6 percent from 1.6 percent as it predicted a mild recession in
the 17-nation euro zone and slowing growth in  China . Ernst &
Young says the U.K. economy may contract again in the current
quarter, marking its first double-dip recession in more than
three decades.  Factory output, which accounts for about 10 percent of U.K.
gross domestic product, contracted 0.9 percent in the fourth
quarter, the biggest drop for more than two years, official data
on Jan. 25 showed.  Growth Outlook  “We believe that the U.K. will avoid recession and post
some positive, if moderate, growth” in the first quarter, David Tinsley, an economist at BNP Paribas SA in  London , said in a
note. “Today’s number supports our view.”  Fenner Plc, the world’s largest conveyor-belt maker, said
on Jan. 11 that there is “uncertainty over the global economic
outlook” and predicted sales growth rates will slow.  With the government constrained by its pledge to all but
eradicate a budget deficit of 9 percent of GDP, pressure is
growing on the  Bank of England  to expand it 275 billion-pound
($434 billion) bond buying program when the current round of
purchases ends this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  