-- U.K. Said to Plan Solar Subsidy Cuts at Regular Intervals
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-02-01T12:20:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/u-k-said-to-plan-cuts-to-solar-subsidy-at-predictable-intervals.html
The U.K. government will announce as
early as next week plans to reduce subsidies for solar energy at
routine intervals as part of an effort to curb a boom in
installations, a person familiar with the plan said.  The plan will include a deployment trigger mechanism that
automatically cuts above-market rates paid for power from solar
cells once installations reach a predetermined level, said the
person, who declined to be identified before the official
announcement. A spokeswoman for the Department of Energy and
Climate Change confirmed by phone the government will propose a
cost-control mechanism for solar power by Feb. 9.  The proposals aim to keep a lid on subsidies while giving
developers more clarity about the support they can depend on and
when the government will make changes. Ministers twice cut rates
in 2011 after installations increased 10-fold. The government
lost a legal challenge from Solarcentury Holdings Ltd. and
Homesun Ltd. who disputed the timing of the reduction.  “Any policy change that creates a more ordered reduction
in the tariffs rather than the fiasco in December is welcome,”
 Good Energy Group Plc (GEGP)  Chief Executive Officer Juliet Davenport
said in an e-mailed reply to questions. “A more stable market
allows all of us in the industry to manage our businesses more
sustainably and invest in the future.”  Germany’s Similarity  Britain’s proposal is similar to the system in  Germany , the
world’s largest solar market, which reevaluates support every
six months. German Environment Minister Norbert Roettgen wants
those cuts to come more frequently and is seeking to phase out
subsidies by 2017.  The government next week is planning set out its proposals
and put them to public consultation. It’s already seeking to cut
in half support for small solar systems fixed to rooftops,
though two courts ruled that ministers acted unlawfully in
ordering the cut before a consultation with industry had ended.  After losing an appeal to December’s ruling, ministers said
last week they may seek permission to appeal to Britain’s
 Supreme Court .  U.K. Energy Secretary  Chris Huhne  has said reducing support
for solar power is needed to adjust for lower costs, keep the
feed-in tariffs, or FITs, within their budget and put a lid on
electricity prices.  Opposition View  Under the system introduced by the then-Energy Secretary  Ed Miliband , “there was absolutely no way of automatically
reducing the tariffs in line with what was going on in the real
world,” Huhne  told lawmakers  on Jan. 26. “All we had to do was
find out was happening in Germany and model our scheme on
theirs.”  Solar panel prices  fell  more than 47 percent from a year
ago, according to Bloomberg New energy Finance data.  “We desperately need a mechanism which allows tariffs to
reduce in line with the falling costs of solar panels,” Gaynor
Hartnell, chief executive officer of the Renewable Energy
Association lobby group, said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “Most important of all, however, is that more money
is found as the FIT budget is now overspent.”  The current system started in April 2010, and also includes
other renewable energy technologies, such as small-scale  wind
turbines . Its total budget was intended to be 867 million pounds
($1.4 billion) in the four tax years through April 2015.  By Jan. 22, about 779 megawatts of solar power had been
installed since the program’s start, though not all had
completed registration to get the tariffs, according to the
energy department. That compares with the department’s
projections before the program began for 284 megawatts by April
2013.  Utilities such as  EON AG (EOAN)  and  Centrica Plc (CNA)  are required to
pay the tariffs to consumers who install the panels, and they
recoup the costs through all bills to consumers.  “The current method of fast-track consultations has been
disastrous in its implementation,” Hartnell said. “Both
installers and customers need forward visibility, and to
understand what reductions to expect and when.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  