-- U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for Jan. 27 (Text)
-- B y   M i k e   S e b a n y
-- 2012-02-01T15:34:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-jan-27-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged 14.2 million barrels per
day during the week ending January 27, 89 thousand barrels per
day below the previous week’s average. Refineries operated at
81.8 percent of their operable capacity last week. Gasoline
production decreased slightly last week, averaging 8.5 million
barrels per day. Distillate fuel production increased last week,
averaging 4.5 million barrels per day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged nearly 8.9 million barrels per
day last week, up by 27 thousand barrels per day from the
previous week. Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports have
averaged about 9.0 million barrels per day, 97 thousand barrels
per day below the same four-week period last year. Total motor
gasoline imports (including both finished gasoline and gasoline
blending components) last week averaged 1.0 million barrels per
day. Distillate fuel imports averaged 192 thousand barrels per
day last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) increased by 4.2 million barrels
from the previous week. At 338.9 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are in the upper limit of the average range for this
time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories increased by 3.0
million barrels last week and are in the upper limit of the
average range. Both finished gasoline inventories and blending
components inventories increased last week. Distillate fuel
inventories decreased by 0.1 million barrels last week and are
in the middle of the average range for this time of year.
Propane/propylene inventories decreased by 1.8 million barrels
last week and are above the upper limit of the average range.
Total commercial petroleum inventories increased by 8.4 million
barrels last week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period have
averaged just under 18.2 million barrels per day, down by 4.3
percent compared to the similar period last year. Over the last
four weeks, motor gasoline product supplied has averaged about
8.1 million barrels per day, down by 7.3 percent from the same
period last year. Distillate fuel product supplied has averaged
3.6 million barrels per day over the last four weeks, down by
1.7 percent from the same period last year. Jet fuel product
supplied is 4.1 percent lower over the last four weeks compared
to the same four-week period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Sebany in Washington at 
 msebany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  