-- U.S. January ISM Manufacturing Report on Business (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-02-01T15:15:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/u-s-january-ism-manufacturing-report-on-business-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
manufacturing conditions from the Institute for Supply
Management.  January Manufacturing ISM Report On Business;  PMI at 54.1%;  New Orders, Production and Employment Growing;  Supplier Deliveries Slower;  Inventories Contracting  DO NOT CONFUSE THIS NATIONAL REPORT with the various
regional purchasing reports released across the country. The
national report’s information reflects the entire  United States ,
while the regional reports contain primarily regional data from
their local vicinities. Also, the information in the regional
reports is not used in calculating the results of the national
report. The information compiled in this report is for the month
of January 2012.  This report reflects the U.S. Department of Commerce’s
recently completed annual adjustment to the seasonal factors
used to calculate the indexes.  Economic activity in the manufacturing sector expanded in
January for the 30th consecutive month, and the overall economy
grew for the 32nd consecutive month, say the nation’s supply
executives in the latest Manufacturing ISM Report On Business.  The report was issued today by Bradley J. Holcomb, CPSM,
CPSD, chair of the  Institute for Supply Management  Manufacturing
Business Survey Committee. “The PMI registered 54.1 percent, an
increase of 1 percentage point from December’s seasonally
adjusted reading of 53.1 percent, indicating expansion in the
manufacturing sector for the 30th consecutive month. The New
Orders Index increased 2.8 percentage points from December’s
seasonally adjusted reading to 57.6 percent, reflecting the 33rd
consecutive month of growth in new orders. Prices of raw
materials increased for the first time in the last four months.
Manufacturing is starting out the year on a positive note, with
new orders, production and employment all growing in January.”  PERFORMANCE BY INDUSTRY  Of the 18 manufacturing industries, nine are reporting
growth in January, in the following order: Apparel, Leather &
Allied Products; Petroleum & Coal Products; Machinery; Computer
& Electronic Products; Transportation Equipment; Miscellaneous
Manufacturing; Fabricated Metal Products; Paper Products; and
Primary Metals. The seven industries reporting contraction in
January -- listed in order -- are: Plastics & Rubber Products;
Furniture & Related Products; Wood Products; Chemical Products;
Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products; Electrical Equipment,
Appliances & Components; and Textile Mills.  WHAT RESPONDENTS ARE SAYING  “Still seeing raw materials pricing moving down in general,
but expect inflation later in the quarter.” (Chemical Products)
“Year starting a little slow, but customers are positive about
increased business in 2012.” (Machinery) “Once again, business
continues to be strong.” (Paper Products) “Pricing remains in
check with the demand we are seeing.  Supplier deliveries  are on
time or early.” (Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products) “The economy
seems to be slowly improving.” (Fabricated Metal Products)
“Business lost to offshore is coming back.” (Computer &
Electronic Products) “Business remains strong. Order intake is
great -- more than 20 percent above budget.” (Primary Metals)
“Indications are that 2012 business environment will improve
over 2011.” (Transportation Equipment) “Market conditions appear
to be improving, with the outlook for 2012 better yet.” (Wood
Products) MANUFACTURING AT A GLANCE JANUARY 2012  COMMODITIES REPORTED UP/DOWN IN PRICE and IN SHORT SUPPLY  Commodities Up in Price  Caustic Soda; Gasoline; High Density Polyethylene; Oil;
Stainless Steel; Steel (2); Steel -- Cold Rolled; and Titanium
Dioxide.  Commodities Down in Price  Aluminum (5); Aluminum Products (2);  Natural Gas  (6);
Plastic Products (4); Plastic Resins (6); Polyethylene;
Polypropylene (3); Polypropylene Resin; and Steel Products.  Commodities in Short Supply  Hard Drives (2); and Integrated Circuit Boards.  Note: The number of consecutive months the commodity is listed
is indicated after each item.  JANUARY 2012 MANUFACTURING INDEX SUMMARIES  PMI  Manufacturing continued its growth in January as the PMI
registered 54.1 percent, an increase of 1 percentage point when
compared to December’s seasonally adjusted reading of 53.1
percent. A reading above 50 percent indicates that the
manufacturing economy is generally expanding; below 50 percent
indicates that it is generally contracting.  A PMI in excess of 42.6 percent, over a period of time,
generally indicates an expansion of the overall economy.
Therefore, the PMI indicates growth for the 32nd consecutive
month in the overall economy, as well as expansion in the
manufacturing sector for the 30th consecutive month. Holcomb
stated, “The past relationship between the PMI and the overall
economy indicates that the PMI for January (54.1 percent)
corresponds to a 3.9 percent increase in real gross domestic
product (GDP) on an annualized basis.”  New Orders  ISM’s New Orders Index registered 57.6 percent in January,
which is an increase of 2.8 percentage points when compared to
the seasonally adjusted December reading of 54.8 percent, and
represents a continuation of growth for the 33rd consecutive
month. (Due to ISM’s seasonal adjustments, this index now
demonstrates growth for the past 33 consecutive months.) A New
Orders Index above 52.3 percent, over time, is generally
consistent with an increase in the Census Bureau’s series on
manufacturing orders (in constant 2000 dollars).  The nine industries reporting growth in new orders in
January -- listed in order -- are: Petroleum & Coal Products;
Machinery; Apparel, Leather & Allied Products; Primary Metals;
Computer & Electronic Products; Fabricated Metal Products;
Transportation Equipment; Paper Products; and Food, Beverage &
Tobacco Products. The five industries reporting decreases in new
orders in January are: Plastics & Rubber Products; Furniture &
Related Products; Textile Mills; Electrical Equipment,
Appliances & Components; and Chemical Products.  Production  ISM’s Production Index registered 55.7 percent in January,
which is a decrease of 3.2 percentage points when compared to
the December reading of 58.9 percent (seasonally adjusted). This
indicates growth for the 32nd consecutive month. An index above
51.2 percent, over time, is generally consistent with an
increase in the Federal Reserve Board’s Industrial Production
figures.  The nine industries reporting growth in production during
the month of January -- listed in order -- are: Apparel, Leather
& Allied Products; Primary Metals; Miscellaneous Manufacturing;
Printing & Related Support Activities; Petroleum & Coal
Products; Transportation Equipment; Fabricated Metal Products;
Machinery; and Computer & Electronic Products. The seven
industries reporting a decrease in production in January --
listed in order -- are: Wood Products; Plastics & Rubber
Products; Furniture & Related Products; Food, Beverage & Tobacco
Products; Paper Products; Electrical Equipment, Appliances &
Components; and Textile Mills.  Employment  ISM’s Employment Index registered 54.3 percent in January,
which is 0.5 percentage point lower than the seasonally adjusted
54.8 percent reported in December. This is the 28th consecutive
month of growth in the Employment Index. An Employment Index
above 50.5 percent, over time, is generally consistent with an
increase in the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) data on
manufacturing employment.  Of the 18 manufacturing industries, eight reported growth
in employment in January in the following order: Apparel,
Leather & Allied Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Paper
Products; Transportation Equipment; Electrical Equipment,
Appliances & Components; Computer & Electronic Products;
Fabricated Metal Products; and Machinery. The six industries
reporting a decrease in employment in January -- listed in order
-- are: Plastics & Rubber Products; Nonmetallic Mineral
Products; Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products; Chemical Products;
Primary Metals; and Textile Mills.  Supplier Deliveries  The delivery performance of suppliers to manufacturing
organizations was slower in January as the Supplier Deliveries
Index registered 53.6 percent, which is 2.1 percentage points
higher than the seasonally adjusted December reading of 51.5
percent. This is the 31st consecutive month supplier deliveries
have slowed relative to the prior month. A reading above 50
percent indicates slower deliveries.  The six industries reporting slower supplier deliveries in
January -- listed in order -- are: Petroleum & Coal Products;
Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components; Machinery;
Computer & Electronic Products; Transportation Equipment; and
Fabricated Metal Products. The three industries reporting faster
deliveries in January are: Plastics & Rubber Products; Primary
Metals; and Chemical Products. Nine industries reported no
change in supplier deliveries in January compared to December.  Inventories(b)  The Inventories Index registered 49.5 percent in January, 4
percentage points higher than the 45.5 percent registered in
December. (The Inventories Index is no longer seasonally
adjusted, and therefore the reading reported in December of 47.1
percent was revised to reflect this change.) An Inventories
Index greater than 42.8 percent, over time, is generally
consistent with expansion in the  Bureau of Economic Analysis ’
(BEA) figures on overall manufacturing inventories (in chained
2000 dollars).  The six industries reporting higher inventories in January
-- listed in order -- are: Apparel, Leather & Allied Products;
Textile Mills; Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Machinery; Computer
& Electronic Products; and Miscellaneous Manufacturing. The 10
industries reporting decreases in inventories in January --
listed in order -- are: Furniture & Related Products; Printing &
Related Support Activities; Electrical Equipment, Appliances &
Components; Chemical Products; Transportation Equipment;
Fabricated Metal Products; Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products;
Primary Metals; Plastics & Rubber Products; and Paper Products.  Customers’ Inventories(b)  The ISM Customers’ Inventories Index registered 47.5
percent in January, which is 5 percentage points higher than in
December when the index registered 42.5 percent. Customers’
inventories have registered at or below 50 percent for 34
consecutive months. A reading below 50 percent indicates
customers’ inventories are considered too low.  The five manufacturing industries reporting customers’
inventories as being too high during January are: Petroleum &
Coal Products; Primary Metals; Electrical Equipment, Appliances
& Components; Fabricated Metal Products; and Chemical Products.
The five industries reporting customers’ inventories as too low
during January are: Plastics & Rubber Products; Transportation
Equipment; Paper Products; Computer & Electronic Products; and
Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products. Eight industries reported no
change in customers’ inventories in January compared to December.  Prices(b)  The ISM Prices Index registered 55.5 percent in January, 8
percentage points higher than the 47.5 percent reported in
December. This is the first month the Prices Index has reflected
an increase in the price of raw materials since September 2011,
when the index registered 56 percent. In January, 30 percent of
respondents reported paying higher prices, 19 percent reported
paying lower prices and 51 percent of supply executives reported
paying the same prices as in December. A Prices Index above 49.4
percent, over time, is generally consistent with an increase in
the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) Index of Manufacturers
Prices.  Of the 18 manufacturing industries, 11 industries report
paying increased prices during the month of January in the
following order: Textile Mills; Fabricated Metal Products;
Plastics & Rubber Products; Primary Metals; Printing & Related
Support Activities; Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Paper
Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Transportation Equipment;
Computer & Electronic Products; and Chemical Products. The four
industries reporting paying lower prices on average during the
month of January are: Furniture & Related Products; Petroleum &
Coal Products; Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products; and Machinery.  Backlog of Orders(b)  ISM’s Backlog of Orders Index registered 52.5 percent in
January, which is 4.5 percentage points higher than the 48
percent reported in December. Of the 80 percent of respondents
who reported their backlog of orders, 23 percent reported
greater backlogs, 18 percent reported smaller backlogs, and 59
percent reported no change from December.  The seven industries reporting increased order backlogs in
January -- listed in order -- are: Apparel, Leather & Allied
Products; Printing & Related Support Activities; Petroleum &
Coal Products; Transportation Equipment; Computer & Electronic
Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; and Machinery. The seven
industries reporting decreases in order backlogs during January
-- listed in order -- are: Plastics & Rubber Products; Furniture
& Related Products; Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products; Chemical
Products; Fabricated Metal Products; Electrical Equipment,
Appliances & Components; and Primary Metals.  New Export Orders(b)  ISM’s New Export Orders Index registered 55 percent in
January, which is 2 percentage points higher than the 53 percent
reported in December. The New Export Orders Index has registered
50 percent or above for the past 31 consecutive months.  The nine industries reporting growth in new export orders
in January -- listed in order -- are: Apparel, Leather & Allied
Products; Paper Products; Printing & Related Support Activities;
Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Furniture & Related Products;
Fabricated Metal Products; Computer & Electronic Products;
Machinery; and Transportation Equipment. The four industries
reporting a decrease in new export orders during January are:
Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components; Food, Beverage &
Tobacco Products; Chemical Products; and Miscellaneous
Manufacturing.  Imports(b)  ISM’s Imports Index registered 52.5 percent in January,
which is 1.5 percentage points lower than the 54 percent
reported in December. The Imports Index reflects two consecutive
months of growth after only two months of contraction in the
past 29 months.  The seven industries reporting growth in imports during the
month of January -- listed in order -- are: Apparel, Leather &
Allied Products; Fabricated Metal Products; Transportation
Equipment; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Food, Beverage & Tobacco
Products; Machinery; and Chemical Products. The three industries
reporting a decrease in imports during January are: Primary
Metals; Plastics & Rubber Products; and Computer & Electronic
Products. Eight industries reported no change in imports in
January compared to December.  (b) The Inventories, Customers’ Inventories, Prices, Backlog of
Orders, New Export Orders and Imports Indexes do not meet the
accepted criteria for seasonal adjustments.  Buying Policy  Average commitment lead time for  Capital Expenditures 
increased by 5 days to 116 days. Average lead time for
Production Materials increased 1 day to 57 days. Average lead
time for Maintenance, Repair and Operating (MRO) Supplies
increased 1 day to 27 days.  About this Report  The data presented herein is obtained from a survey of
manufacturing supply managers based on information they have
collected within their respective organizations. ISM makes no
representation, other than that stated within this release,
regarding the individual company data collection procedures. Use
of the data is in the public domain and should be compared to
all other economic data sources when used in decision-making.  Data and Method of Presentation  The Manufacturing ISM Report On Business is based on data
compiled from purchasing and supply executives nationwide.
Membership of the Manufacturing Business Survey Committee is
diversified by NAICS, based on each industry’s contribution to
gross domestic product (GDP). Manufacturing Business Survey
Committee responses are divided into the following NAICS code
categories: Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products; Textile Mills;
Apparel, Leather & Allied Products; Wood Products; Paper
Products; Printing & Related Support Activities; Petroleum &
Coal Products; Chemical Products; Plastics & Rubber Products;
Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Primary Metals; Fabricated Metal
Products; Machinery; Computer & Electronic Products; Electrical
Equipment, Appliances & Components; Transportation Equipment;
Furniture & Related Products; and Miscellaneous Manufacturing
(products such as medical equipment and supplies, jewelry,
sporting goods, toys and office supplies).  Survey responses reflect the change, if any, in the current
month compared to the previous month. For each of the indicators
measured (New Orders, Backlog of Orders, New Export Orders,
Imports, Production, Supplier Deliveries, Inventories, Customers’
Inventories, Employment and Prices), this report shows the
percentage reporting each response, the net difference between
the number of responses in the positive economic direction
(higher, better and slower for Supplier Deliveries) and the
negative economic direction (lower, worse and faster for
Supplier Deliveries), and the diffusion index. Responses are raw
data and are never changed. The diffusion index includes the
percent of positive responses plus one-half of those responding
the same (considered positive).  The resulting single index number for those meeting the
criteria for seasonal adjustments (PMI, New Orders, Production,
Employment and Supplier Deliveries) is then seasonally adjusted
to allow for the effects of repetitive intra-year variations
resulting primarily from normal differences in weather
conditions, various institutional arrangements, and differences
attributable to non-moveable holidays. All seasonal adjustment
factors are supplied by the U.S. Department of Commerce and are
subject annually to relatively minor changes when conditions
warrant them. The PMI is a composite index based on the
diffusion indexes of five of the indexes with equal weights: New
Orders (seasonally adjusted), Production (seasonally adjusted),
Employment (seasonally adjusted), Supplier Deliveries
(seasonally adjusted), and Inventories.  Diffusion indexes have the properties of leading indicators
and are convenient summary measures showing the prevailing
direction of change and the scope of change. A PMI reading above
50 percent indicates that the manufacturing economy is generally
expanding; below 50 percent indicates that it is generally
declining. A PMI in excess of 42.6 percent, over a period of
time, indicates that the overall economy, or gross domestic
product (GDP), is generally expanding; below 42.6 percent, it is
generally declining. The distance from 50 percent or 42.6
percent is indicative of the strength of the expansion or
decline. With some of the indicators within this report, ISM has
indicated the departure point between expansion and decline of
comparable government series, as determined by regression
analysis.  The Manufacturing ISM Report On Business surveys are sent
out to Manufacturing Business Survey Committee respondents the
first part of each month. Respondents are asked to ONLY report
on information for the current month. ISM receives survey
responses throughout most of any given month, with the majority
of respondents generally waiting until late in the month to
submit responses in order to give the most accurate picture of
current business activity. ISM then compiles the reports for
release on the first business day of the following month.  The industries reporting growth, as indicated in the
Manufacturing ISM Report On Business monthly reports, are listed
in the order of most growth to least growth. For the industries
reporting contraction or decreases, those are listed in the
order of the highest level of contraction/decrease to the least
level of contraction/decrease.  Responses to Buying Policy reflect the percent reporting
the current month’s lead time, the approximate weighted number
of days ahead for which commitments are made for Production
Materials; Capital Expenditures; and Maintenance, Repair and
Operating (MRO) Supplies, expressed as hand-to-mouth (five days),
30 days, 60 days, 90 days, six months (180 days), a year or more
(360 days), and the weighted average number of days. These
responses are raw data, never revised, and not seasonally
adjusted since there is no significant seasonal pattern.  The Manufacturing ISM Report On Business is published
monthly by the Institute for Supply Management. The Institute
for Supply Management, established in 1915, is the largest
supply management organization in the world as well as one of
the most respected. ISM’s mission is to lead the supply
management profession through its standards of excellence,
research, promotional activities and education. This report has
been issued by the association since 1931, except for a four-
year interruption during World War II.  The full text version of the Manufacturing ISM Report On
Business is posted on ISM’s Web site at www.ism.ws on the first
business day of every month after 10:10 a.m. (ET).  The next Manufacturing ISM Report On Business featuring the
February 2012 data will be released at 10:00 a.m. (ET) on
Thursday, March 1, 2012.  SOURCE: Institute for Supply Management
 http://www.ism.ws  