-- U.S. Regulators Exploring Volcker Exemption for Foreign Sovereign Debt
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-02-01T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/u-s-regulators-weigh-volcker-exemption-for-sovereign-debt.html
U.S. banking regulators are exploring
whether they can exempt sovereign debt from the Dodd-Frank ban
on proprietary trading after foreign governments complained that
the rule could raise borrowing costs and impede the flow of
capital, a person familiar with the talks said.  Five regulatory agencies are taking public comments on a
proposed version of the so-called Volcker rule, which was
included in the 2010 financial regulatory overhaul to ban
deposit-taking banks from trading with their own money.  While foreign  government bonds  would fall under the rule as
proposed,  U.S. government debt  would be exempt. Officials from
Canada,  Japan , and the  United Kingdom  have sent letters to the
Treasury Department and regulators saying the measure would harm
their ability to raise money.  “It will be difficult for regulators to ignore a sizable
number of the G-20 countries, which will all be saying something
similar -- which is the Volcker rule’s extraterritorial reach
will hinder these countries’ sovereign debt markets,” said
Douglas Landy, a Washington partner in law firm Allen & Overy
LLP who represents Canadian banks.  Dodd-Frank has provisions allowing regulators to exempt an
activity from the Volcker rule if such a move would “promote
and protect the safety and soundness of the banking entity and
the financial stability of the  United States .” Making that case
for a sovereign-debt exemption may be possible though
challenging, said the person familiar with the discussions among
regulators, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
matter isn’t public.  Lobbying Effort  The global backlash against the Volcker rule has been
welcomed by U.S. banks, which have been lobbying Congress and
regulatory agencies to delay and weaken numerous provisions in
the 298-page proposal released in October.  The rule would allow banks to continue short-term trades
for market-making or hedging. It also would limit investments in
private-equity and hedge funds. Dodd-Frank, enacted in response
to the 2008 credit crisis, requires that the rule be in place by
July 21.  “I am concerned that the regulations could have a
significant adverse impact on sovereign debt markets, including
here in the U.K.,”  George Osborne , Britain’s Chancellor of the
Exchequer, wrote in a letter to Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke .  “In particular, although we understand that the primary
legislation makes an exemption for market-making activities in
practice, the regulations would appear to make it more difficult
and costlier to provide market-making services in non-U.S.
sovereign markets.”  ‘Double Standard’  Richard Bove , a bank analyst at Rochdale Securities LLC,
wrote in a Jan. 30 research note titled “Volcker Hypocrisy,”
that regulators are creating a “double standard” for sovereign
debt by allowing proprietary trading in U.S.  government
securities  and not foreign government securities.  Regulators have signaled they may be open to the concerns.
Noting the sovereign debt issue, acting Comptroller of the
Currency  John Walsh  testified at a House Financial Services
subcommittee hearing Jan. 18 that U.S. banks would operate at a
“competitive disadvantage” due to the Volcker rule.  “It’s certainly something that we want to pay careful
attention to,” Walsh said.  Granting an exemption may have to overcome skepticism in
Congress in the midst of the European debt crisis and the probe
of  MF Global Holdings Ltd (MFGLQ) ., which collapsed after making a $6.3
billion bet on European government bonds.  ‘Hard Sale’  “In political terms post MF Global’s failure, it’s a hard
political sale at least up on the Hill,” said  Brian Gardner ,
senior vice president of Washington research for Keefe Bruyette
& Woods Inc. “MF Global will be the bloody shirt that Volcker
supporters wave. It’s going to be a very, very effective
argument against expanding exemptions around the Volcker rule.”  The Volcker debate intensified at last week’s  World
Economic Forum  in Davos,  Switzerland , where Bank of Canada
Governor  Mark Carney  said he had “some obvious concerns” about
the rule. Carney was named in November to succeed  Mario Draghi 
as chairman of the Financial Stability Board, which has been
charged by Group of 20 leaders with making recommendations for
global financial reform and to monitor progress.  “No other government bond market is carved out” of
Volcker, Carney said in an interview in Davos with Bloomberg
Television. “U.S.-based institutions are significant players in
those markets, and so there is a potential for real liquidity
change.”  Complaint to Geithner  Michel Barnier , the European Union’s financial services
chief, said in a Wall Street Journal interview that he would
complain to U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  next
month about the Volcker rule and its “extraterritorial
consequences.”  Julie Dickson,  Canada ’s superintendent of financial
institutions, wrote in a Dec. 28 letter to Treasury and bank
regulators that an exemption should be created at least for
foreign banks with U.S. branches.  “A failure to include these additional exemptions at least
for banking entities whose parent bank is located outside of the
U.S. would undermine the liquidity of government debt markets
outside of the U.S.,” Dickson wrote. “This is an especially
acute concern for Canadian banks and the Canadian financial
system more broadly given the deep inter-linkages that have
existed for many years between the Canadian and U.S. financial
systems.”  European Debt  The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association
will be submitting ideas to regulators on how to exempt
sovereign securities in its comment letter later this month, Rob Toomey, the trade group’s managing director and associate
general counsel, said in an interview. Sifma represents Wall
Street securities firms including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co ., which have been strong opponents of the
Volcker rule.  Toomey said the current concerns over European debt
shouldn’t influence regulators in their decision. “There are a
couple countries where it’s problematic right now but look at
the countries that have weighed in - the Canadians, the
Japanese, the U.K. -- all of these are significant sovereign
issuers,” Toomey said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  