-- Manufacturing in U.S. Bolsters Global Expansion: Economy
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-02-01T21:36:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/u-s-manufacturing-increases-at-a-faster-pace-as-ism-index-climbs-to-54-1.html
Manufacturing in the U.S. grew in
January at the fastest pace in seven months, adding to signs of
a global pickup from  Germany  to  China .  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s index climbed to
54.1, from 53.1 in December, the Tempe, Arizona-based group’s
report showed today. Figures greater than 50 signal expansion.
Other reports showed U.S. construction spending increased at the
fastest pace in four months and companies added 170,000 workers
to payrolls in January.  Stocks rose on optimism the factory reports show the world
economy is withstanding fallout from  Europe ’s debt crisis.
Production, led by inventory rebuilding at the end of 2011, is
poised to keep expanding in the U.S. as the need to update
equipment drives orders at companies like  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and
demand for cars rises.  U.S. “manufacturing growth points to an acceleration in
the economy,” said Conrad DeQuadros, a senior economist at RDQ
Economics LLC in  New York . “China is weathering weaker activity
in Europe quite well.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.9 percent to
1,324.08 at the close in New York. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index
advanced 2 percent. The yield on the benchmark 10-year  U.S.
Treasury  note rose to 1.83 percent from 1.8 percent late
yesterday.  China, Europe  Factory indexes in China improved last month as the world’s
second-biggest economy withstood exports weakened by Europe’s
crisis. The official  purchasing managers’ index  increased to
50.5, from 50.3 in December. The data may have been distorted by
a weeklong holiday.  In Germany, Europe’s largest economy, output grew for the
first time since September. In the U.K., manufacturing returned
to growth in January after shrinking in the previous three
months. Across the euro region, manufacturing contracted less
than initially estimated as a gauge based on a survey of
 purchasing managers  rose to 48.8 from 46.9 the previous month,
London-based Markit Economics said today.  The  median  forecast for the ISM index among 80 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News was 54.5. Estimates ranged from 53 to
56.  Caterpillar, the largest construction and mining-equipment
maker, last month posted fourth-quarter earnings and forecast
full-year profit that topped analysts’ estimates as demand rose
for earth-moving machinery and trucks. The Peoria, Illinois-
based manufacturer said it had a record $29.8 billion backlog of
orders at the end of 2011.  Auto Sales  Chrysler Group LLC, the automaker majority owned by Fiat
SpA, said today that U.S. sales rose 44 percent last month from
the same time last year, joining Nissan Motor Co. and General
Motors Co. in beating analysts’ estimates for January.  Cars and light trucks sold at a 14.1 million annual rate
last month, according to industry data. Excluding a surge in
August 2009 that reflected the government’s “cars-for-
clunkers” program, it was the strongest month since May 2008.  The ISM’s  new orders  measure climbed to 57.6, the highest
since April, from 54.8, and the gauge of export orders rose.
Manufacturing accounts for about 12 percent of the economy and
was at the forefront of the recovery that began in June 2009.  Federal Reserve officials said in their policy statement
last month that they may leave  interest rates  low until 2014, in
part because “strains in global financial markets continue to
pose significant downside risks to the economic outlook.”  More Jobs  Employment at companies climbed 170,000 in January,
according to data today by Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP
Employer Services. The gain compared with a median forecast of
182,000 in a Bloomberg survey of economists and followed a
revised 292,000 rise the prior month that was smaller than
previously reported.  Construction spending  increased 1.5 percent in December,
the biggest gain since August, helped by a jump in non-
residential construction, Commerce Department figures showed
today. The median estimate of 51 economists in a Bloomberg
survey called for a 0.5 percent rise.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  