-- U.S. EPA Says New Data Motivated More Testing of Dimock Wells
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-02-01T19:46:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/u-s-epa-says-new-data-motivated-more-testing-of-dimock-wells.html
The U.S. was “compelled to
intervene” and test water in Dimock,  Pennsylvania , after data
from  Cabot Oil & Gas Corp.  showed hazardous substances in
drinking-water sources, the Environmental Protection
Administration said.  The explanation was in a Jan. 31 letter from Mathy
Stanislaus, EPA assistant administrator for solid waste and
emergency response, and Shawn Garvin, an agency regional
administrator, to Dan Dinges, Cabot’s chief executive officer.
Dinges had said the EPA’s decision to test 60 wells and provide
water to four homes in the area caused confusion and undercut
President  Barack Obama ’s stated commitment to natural-gas
drilling.  “We did not take this step lightly but felt compelled to
intervene when we became aware of monitoring data, developed
largely by Cabot, indicating the presence of several hazardous
substances in drinking-water samples, including some at levels
of health concern,” according to the letter, which the EPA
provided to Bloomberg News. “Our actions have been only guided
by science.”  Garvin and Stanislaus said the data available is
“incomplete and of uncertain quality,” warranting further
testing.  Federal Lawsuit  Dimock residents claim that hydraulic fracturing, or
fracking, by  Cabot (COG)  polluted their water wells and have sued the
Houston-based company in federal court. Cabot disputes the
allegations. The drilling technique involves injecting millions
of gallons of chemically treated water underground to shatter
rock and let gas flow.  In a Jan. 26 letter to the EPA, Dinges said the agency had
presented “no credible evidence to suggest that its new
sampling initiative is a wise use of resources.” Cabot had
provided more than 10,000 pages of data based on testing at more
than 2,000 wells in the Dimock area, Dinges said.  Later, in a statement, the company said the information
that prompted the EPA’s review doesn’t “accurately represent
the water quality.”  On Dec. 6, 2011, residents presented additional information
to the agency, including results from Cabot testing, that
“warranted further evaluation of the situation,” Garvin and
Stanislaus wrote. They said the EPA operated as a critical
backstop to state oversight and would use its authority
“prudently and sparingly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  