-- U.S.-Led Coalition Attacked 46 Times by Supposed Afghan Allies
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-02-01T16:39:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/u-s-led-coalition-attacked-46-times-by-supposed-afghan-allies.html
Afghan army and police forces or
civilian contractors have attacked U.S.-led coalition forces at
least 46 times since May 2007, including an attack today in
which an Afghan soldier shot and killed a U.S. Marine in the
southern province of Helmand.  The Afghan army soldier opened fire at close range as he
and the Marine guarded a joint operating base at about 12:30
a.m. today, General Sayed Malook, a corps commander based in
Helmand, said by phone. The U.S.-led  International Security
Assistance Force , or ISAF, confirmed that one of its soldiers
was shot dead by an individual wearing an Afghan uniform.  Malook said the Afghan soldier had been taken into custody
and told investigators that the killing wasn’t deliberate.  While the Taliban have claimed in the past to have
infiltrated Afghan forces to carry out attacks on international
troops or government officials, U.S. Defense Department data
indicate that the majority, or 58 percent, of the attacks were
motivated by personal matters and weren’t the result of
insurgent activity.  In testimony prepared for a hearing today before the House
Armed Services Committee, the department said 42 insider attacks
from May 2007 through last year involved personnel of the Afghan
National Security Forces, and three were carried out by Afghan
contract employees of private security companies.  The attacks resulted in deaths of about 70 coalition
personnel and the wounding of about 110, according to the
testimony prepared by Pentagon officials including David Sedney,
the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for  Afghanistan ,
 Pakistan  and Central Asia.  Creating Distrust  “The insider threat is an issue of increasing significance
to coalition forces and Afghan national security forces
operating in Afghanistan,” the Pentagon officials said in
prepared testimony. “It creates distrust between our forces and
their Afghan counterparts during a critical juncture in
Afghanistan.”  While the majority of the attacks are motivated by personal
reasons, “the second most prevalent causes of insider attacks
were impersonation and infiltration,” according to the
testimony.  In four cases, or 9 percent of the total, the perpetrator
was recruited by the Taliban or other insurgents to conduct the
attack, according to the report. In an additional four cases,
the Taliban or other insurgents threatened or intimidated an
Afghan soldiers or contractor. There are now 19,000 Afghans
working for private security firms, according to separate data
the Defense Department provided to the Armed Services Committee.  In one of the deadliest cases, an Afghan air force pilot
killed eight U.S. military personnel and a contract employee of
the coalition in April.  French Soldiers  Four French soldiers were shot dead Jan. 20 and seventeen
others were wounded when an Afghan soldier opened fire on them
in Kapisa province north of capital, Kabul.  Following those killings and talks in Paris with Afghan
leader  Hamid Karzai , French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said his
country will withdraw its combat forces by the end of 2013, a
year ahead of schedule. U.S. undersecretary of defense, Michele
Flournoy, emphasized last week, before leaving the post, the
need for NATO allies to coordinate their plans for troop
withdrawals.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  