-- U.S. Senator Portman’s Corporate Tax Plan to Include Low Repatriation Rate
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-02-01T16:56:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/u-s-senator-portman-s-corporate-tax-plan-to-include-low-repatriation-rate.html
A proposal allowing U.S. companies to
pay a reduced  tax rate  on overseas profits they bring home will
be included in corporate tax overhaul legislation that Senator
Robert Portman said he plans to unveil soon.  “International operations of U.S. businesses simply don’t
fit with our  tax code ,” the Ohio Republican, a former U.S.
trade representative, said today in  Washington . “Our tax code
today gives firms a choice between keeping their earnings abroad
tax-free permanently or paying a very steep tax bill if and when
they choose to bring their money home.”  Portman said the repatriation proposal, which he said would
prompt as much as $1.8 trillion in annual corporate profits to
be subject to taxation, should be included only as part of a
shift to a territorial system in which U.S. companies’ overseas
profits wouldn’t be taxed at the corporate rate.  The U.S. currently taxes worldwide income at a top rate of
35 percent. Most companies pay lower effective rates because
they can claim credits for payments to other governments and
defer taxation until bringing profits home.  Portman said he wants to introduce corporate tax overhaul
legislation “early in this year.” He said it will build on the
deficit-reduction supercommittee’s work by lowering the
corporate rate and streamlining “an inefficient and complex
maze of tax preferences.” Portman’s proposal would reduce the
corporate rate to 25 percent.  Taxing Overseas Profits  House Ways and Means Chairman  Dave Camp , a Michigan
Republican, has proposed letting companies exempt 95 percent of
their overseas earnings from U.S. taxation, putting him and
Portman at odds with President Barack Obama. In his Jan. 24
State of the Union address, Obama said U.S. companies should pay
a “basic minimum tax ” on offshore profits.  The treatment of profits held overseas by U.S. companies
would be a central element of a tax code overhaul that Obama and
congressional Republicans say they want to pursue.  Portman said his legislation would be “revenue neutral” -
based on an analysis by the Joint Committee on Taxation - and
that he was working to bring Democrats, including Senator  Bill Nelson  of Florida, on board.  “This is going to be a tough year to legislate,” Portman
said, though he added, “There are some targeted, specific areas
where we can make progress and actually get something done, and
I think this is one of them.”  Portman spoke at a Washington event organized by the RATE
Coalition, a group of 26 companies including  AT&T Inc. (T) ,  Boeing
Co. (BA) ,  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) 
that advocates for a lower corporate tax rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net 
or Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  