-- U.S. Stocks Advance Amid Optimism About Global Manufacturing
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-02-01T22:15:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/u-s-stock-index-futures-gain-before-manufacturing-data-chevron-advances.html
U.S. stocks advanced, snapping a
four-day decline in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, amid signs
that manufacturing across the world is strengthening.  Financial (S5FINL)  and industrial shares in the  S&P 500  rose at
least 1.1 percent to lead gains among 10 groups. Morgan Stanley
and Bank of America Corp. added more than 3.2 percent. Whirlpool
Corp. surged 13 percent as the appliance maker projected
earnings that beat forecasts. Technology companies in the
benchmark index rallied to an  11 year-high .  Broadcom (BRCM)  Corp.
jumped 8.1 percent as it forecast sales that may top estimates.  The S&P 500 increased 0.9 percent to 1,324.09 at 4 p.m. New
York time, following the  biggest  January advance in 15 years.
The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  rallied 83.55 points, or 0.7
percent, to 12,716.46, trimming an earlier 152-point gain that
sent it above its highest close since May. The Russell 2000
Index of small companies jumped 2.1 percent to 809.66.  “The manufacturing is looking pretty good,” Allan Flader,
a senior vice president at RBC Wealth Management, said in a
telephone interview from Phoenix. His firm oversees $227
billion. “It shows that there’s not a contraction going on and
that we’re progressing and moving forward.”  Equities rallied after data showing manufacturing in the
U.S. grew at the fastest pace in seven months. Factory indexes
in  China  improved and a U.K. manufacturing gauge jumped to an
eight-month high. In Germany, output grew for the first time
since September. Manufacturing contracted less than initially
estimated in the euro region. A spokesman said Greece expects to
complete talks on a private sector debt swap and a second
international financing deal for the country in the next days.  ‘Still Growing’  “The news on the economy is better,”  David Sowerby , a
Bloomfield Hills, Michigan-based portfolio manager at Loomis
Sayles & Co., which oversees $150 billion, said in a telephone
interview. “The uncertainty in Europe has diminished. While
corporate profits have been less robust, they are still growing.
That’s what’s moving stock prices higher.”  The S&P 500 rose  4.4 percent  for the best January since it
gained 6.1 percent in 1997, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Earnings beat projections at 67 percent of the 209
companies in the S&P 500 that reported quarterly results since
Jan. 9, the data show. Profits probably grew 4.6 percent in the
fourth quarter, according to a Bloomberg survey of analysts. The
projection has fallen from 6.2 percent at the end of last year.  The  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Cyclical Index of companies most-tied to
the economy rallied 1.6 percent. A gauge of homebuilders in S&P
indexes jumped 3 percent.  Construction spending  increased 1.5
percent in December, the biggest gain since August, Commerce
Department figures showed today.  Banks Rally  The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  rose 1.7 percent as 23 of its 24 stocks
gained. Morgan Stanley climbed 4 percent to $19.39. Bank of
America added 3.2 percent, the most in the Dow, to $7.36.
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  advanced 2.9 percent to $31.60.  Facebook Inc., the social-networking website that began
about eight years ago in a Harvard University dorm, filed to
raise $5 billion in an initial public offering. The $5 billion
amount is a placeholder used to calculate fees and may change.
The company hired Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., Bank of America, Barclays Plc and Allen & Co.
to manage the IPO. The announcement came after the close of
regular trading.  Whirlpool (WHR)  surged 13 percent to $61.64 after also reporting
a 20 percent gain in fourth-quarter profit. Cost reductions and
price increases “positively impacted” the results last
quarter, the company said today in a statement.  Technology Shares  A measure of  technology  shares in the S&P 500 gained 0.9
percent as some of the industry’s largest companies rallied.
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the largest software maker, advanced 1.2
percent to $29.89.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  increased 2.8 percent to
$28.76. The Philadelphia Semiconductor Index rose 2.4 percent.  Broadcom jumped 8.1 percent to $37.13. The company is
benefiting from demand for radio chips that help  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
smartphones and tablets connect over Wi-Fi and Bluetooth
signals. Apple’s phone sales more than doubled to  37 million  in
the quarter.  Casino companies gained after revenue in Macau, the world’s
largest gambling hub, rose 35 percent in January.  MGM Resorts
International (MGM)  climbed 5 percent to $13.70.  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) 
increased 2.2 percent to $50.18.  AOL Inc. (AOL)  soared 9.6 percent to $17.76. Profit exceeded
analysts’ estimates as display advertising sales gained for the
fourth straight period.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  tumbled 7.7 percent, the most in the S&P
500, to $179.46. Sales missed estimates, signaling that its
investments in media services, Kindle devices and shipping
promotions have been slow to pay off.  ‘Near-Monopoly’  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  slid 0.5 percent to $26.43. European Union
regulators vetoed the plan by Deutsche Boerse AG and NYSE
Euronext to create the world’s biggest exchange after concluding
that the merger would have led to a “near-monopoly” in
European exchange-traded derivatives.  Strategists at the biggest banks are capitulating on their
bearish forecasts after the best start to a year for global
 stocks  since 1994.  Just two weeks after saying that investors should “remain
cautious,” Larry Hatheway, the chief economist at UBS AG,
raised his recommendations on global shares and high-yield bonds
in a Jan. 23 note to customers entitled, “Wrong, but not too
late.” Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, and  Benoit Anne , the
global head of emerging-markets strategy at Societe Generale SA,
said their estimates for developing nations were proven wrong.  The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  climbed 5.7 percent in
January, surprising strategists at  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Barclays Plc who had forecast
first-half losses because of Europe’s debt crisis.  “In hindsight, everybody was so beared up at the end of
last year,” Mary Ann Bartels, the New York-based head of
technical and market analysis at Bank of America, who predicted
on Dec. 27 that the S&P 500 would probably fall about 15 percent
in the first half before recovering, said in a Jan. 31 phone
interview. “There was nowhere for the market to go but up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  