-- U.S. Should Give Israel Bunker-Buster Bombs, Policy Group Says
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-02-01T20:50:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/u-s-should-give-israel-bunker-buster-bombs-policy-group-says.html
A bipartisan policy group called for
providing  Israel  with 200 additional bunker-buster bombs to
increase the credibility of a military strike aimed at thwarting
 Iran’s nuclear program .  The proposal is part of a report issued today by the
 Bipartisan Policy Center ’s National Security Project, a
nonprofit research group in  Washington .  The group, led by former Democratic Senator Charles Robb of
 Virginia  and retired General Charles Wald, a former deputy
commander of U.S. European Command, called for providing Israel
200 GBU-31 bunker-buster bombs and two or three KC-135 aerial
refueling tankers. Israel already has about a dozen of the
tankers needed to enable Israeli warplanes to strike targets in
 Iran , according to the report.  “The pressure on Iran to negotiate in good faith will be
maximized to the extent Iran believes that not just the United
States, but also Israel, is capable of and prepared to deliver a
crippling blow to its nuclear program,” the group said.  A more credible military threat from Israel is required,
because Iran “could have the capacity to produce enough highly
enriched uranium for a nuclear device in as little as two
months” and “develop nuclear weapons capability” this year,
according to the report.  “This program is the most immediate national-security
threat to the  United States ,” Robb said in presenting  the
report  at a news conference.  “While we do not advocate an Israeli military strike, we
believe a more credible Israeli threat can only increase the
pressure on Iran to negotiate,” Wald said in a written
statement.  Lawmakers Concerned  The report was issued as policy makers in Congress express
heightened concerns about Iran’s nuclear program.  Senator  Dianne Feinstein  of  California , chairman of the
Senate Intelligence Committee, said yesterday that this will be
“a critical year” for preventing Iran from developing a
nuclear weapon.  President  Barack Obama , in his State of the Union address
last month, said he will “take no options off the table” to
ensure Iran does not develop nuclear weapons.  To thwart Iran, the Bipartisan Policy Center endorsed a
“triple-track” strategy of diplomacy, economic sanctions, and
“credible, visible preparations for a military option of last
resort.”  While Israel already has about 100 GBU-28 bunker-buster
munitions, the addition of 200 precision-guided GBU-31 bombs  --
which have a  Boeing Co. (BA)  GPS tail-kit -- would increase the
likelihood that any strike “would score a direct hit on its
target,” the report said.  ‘Counterproductive’ Proposal  Alireza Nader, an analyst at the Rand Corp. who was co-
author of a study on Israel and Iran, said sending Israel more
bombs would be a mistake.  “It’s actually counterproductive,” Nader said. “It might
compel the Iranian government to accelerate the nuclear program.
They see a potential weapons capability as a deterrence against
the United State and Israel.”  Nader said diplomacy and sanctions are a wiser course, with
recent sanctions having “raised the cost of weaponization for
the Islamic Republic” as its economy weakens.  The National Security Project group, while endorsing more
sanctions, expressed skepticism about their effectiveness in
curbing Iran’s nuclear program.  “Even new ‘crippling’ sanctions are unlikely to threaten
the viability of the Iranian regime -- the one motivation for
Tehran to negotiate in good faith,” its report found.  Other members of the National Security Project task force
include Dan Glickman, a former chairman of the House
Intelligence Committee; Ambassador Eric Edelman, a former
undersecretary of defense for policy; retired General Ron Keys,
a former commander of Air Combat Command; Stephen Rademaker, a
former assistant secretary of state for arms control and
nonproliferation; and Mortimer Zuckerman, chief executive
officer and board chairman of  Boston Properties Inc. (BXP)   To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  