-- UN Atomic Agency Calls Iran Visit ‘Good,’ Sees Another Trip
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2012-02-01T11:04:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/un-atomic-agency-says-iran-visit-progressed-well-enough-for-a-return-trip.html
Nuclear talks between senior United
Nations officials and members of  Iran ’s government progressed
enough for both sides to commit to more negotiations.  “We had a good trip,”  International Atomic Energy Agency 
Chief Inspector Herman Nackaerts told reporters today at Vienna
International Airport after returning from Iran. “There still
is a lot of work to be done and so we have planned another trip
in the very near future.” He declined to elaborate.  IAEA inspectors had three days of “intensive discussions”
with Iranian authorities, who said they were committed to
addressing allegations that Tehran’s government embarked on
nuclear-weapons studies, according to Nackaerts. Iran’s Foreign
Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi  called the outcome of the negotiations
“very good,” state-run Fars news agency reported.  The IAEA trip to Iran came as military tensions in the
region rise. European Union foreign ministers agreed on Jan. 23
to ban oil imports from Iran and to freeze Iranian central bank
assets. Iranian officials have said they would block the  Strait
of Hormuz , a transit route for a fifth of globally traded oil,
if military action were taken against their country.  “There is no alternative to a peaceful resolution of this
issue,” UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said today at a news
conference in  Jerusalem . “I am deeply concerned by the latest
reports of the International Atomic Energy Agency that indicate
the possibility of a military dimension to the Iranian nuclear-
development programs.”  While the agency confirmed Iran hasn’t used its declared
uranium stockpile to make weapons, inspectors said they have
credible intelligence showing the country studied how to make a
nuclear bomb. Iran, under four sets of UN sanctions, says it
only wants atomic power.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  