-- Hungary’s Malev Seeks Plan to Keep Flying as State Cash Runs Out
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-02-01T17:03:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/hungary-s-malev-seeks-plan-to-keep-flying-as-state-cash-runs-out.html
Hungarian national airline  Malev
Zrt. (MALEV) , weighed down by debts of 60 billion forint ($268 million),
has until the end of the week to submit a survival plan that
could include a Chinese takeover, or face being grounded.  Malev aims to sustain liquidity and continue flying through
an orderly bankruptcy that would allow it to be restructured or
a successor established, said Chairman Janos Berenyi, who
reckons there are potential buyers for the carrier and that a
bid from Hainan Airlines Co. is “not impossible.” If the plan
is rejected by its state owner, the company could fold, he said.  European governments are becoming reluctant to prop up
airlines as the debt crisis forces austerity programs in other
parts of the economy. Barcelona-based Spanair SA ceased flying
Jan. 27 after failed bid talks prompted Catalonia to halt
funding, and  Sweden , Ireland,  Portugal ,  Poland  and the  Czech
Republic  are also seeking to reduce state support for carriers.  “It’s a bad start to the year, and we will see more,” said
Paul Sheridan, head of risk analysis at London-based aviation
consultant Ascend. “Small airlines are always most at risk, and
it’s usually this time of year, with lower passenger numbers and
yields resulting in poor cash-flow. A lot of airlines have had
 losses  since 2007, with maybe a brief interruption in 2010.”  ‘Smooth Transition’  Hungary is making preparations to assist passengers who
might be left stranded should Malev cease operations, reserving
2 billion forint for use in a “worst case scenario,” the
Development Ministry said last night in a statement.  Malev’s financial situation is untenable, with room for
maneuver “extremely limited,” and the government is unable to
help much because of European Union competition rules, Berenyi
said at a press briefing yesterday. The company “can’t continue
in this form” and the aim now is simply to guarantee that
there’s still a Budapest-based carrier, he added.  Malev is already effectively operating in  bankruptcy
protection , having been declared a “strategically important
company” on Jan. 30, a status that shields it from creditors.  “The question is how we can find a smooth transition until
a new national carrier is established,” Berenyi said. “In this
situation, money runs out very fast. Funds that would normally
last a month may be depleted in a few days if the airports start
asking for fees in advance. If we can avoid these unexpected
costs we can continue flying. If not, anything could happen.”  Bailout Talks  Malev, founded in 1946, is working with the government on
how best to survive through the transition, and must present a
liquidity plan by Jan. 3, the chairman said.  The crisis comes with Hungary seeking to revive bailout
talks with the  International Monetary Fund  and European Union to
quell investor concern about its ability to service the highest
debt level among the trading bloc’s eastern members. Prime
Minister  Viktor Orban  sought aid in November as the forint fell
to a record and Hungary’s credit grade was cut to junk at
 Standard & Poor’s ,  Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s Investors Service.  A member of the Oneworld airline alliance that includes
London-based  British Airways (IAG) , Malev reported a loss of 24.6
billion forint in 2010, the latest year for which it has
published results, little changed from its deficit in 2009.  Investor Search  Low-cost rivals including Wizz Air Ltd., also based in
Budapest, have squeezed earnings, and competition will increase
as  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) ,  Europe ’s biggest discount operator,
resumes flights from the city this spring after an 18-month gap.  A failure would end a two-decade search for a viable
partner since the airline was transformed into a joint stock
company in 1992 following the collapse of communism. Hungary has
most recently been seeking a buyer for Malev after taking a  95
percent stake  in 2010 to replace Russian bank Vnesheconombank as
controlling shareholder when a previous privatization failed.  The government said Dec. 5 it was in “advanced” talks
with potential European investors after Hainan Air quit earlier
negotiations, and Czech charter operator Travel Service AS said
on Aug. 2 it had submitted a letter of intent for a purchase.
 Vueling Airlines SA (VLG) ,  Spain ’s second-biggest carrier, said
yesterday it has no interest in Malev after Hungarian paper
Nepszabadsag said Jan. 27 that it was considering an investment.  Malev’s plight worsened Jan. 9 when the European Commission
ruled that it should return the equivalent of $390 million in
“unlawful aid” paid by the government from 2007 to 2010, saying
it would have struggled to raise cash from a private investor.  Plane Guarantee  The EC verdict reduced Hungary options for helping Malev,
according to the airline, which still relies on aid, borrowing 5
billion forint in December and receiving 8.5 billion forint in
budget funds in August, according to a government document.  American International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s Los Angeles-based ILFC
Holdings Inc. leasing unit has agreed to carry on providing
planes, Malev has said. The carrier operates 18  Boeing Co. (BA)  737s,
17 of them from ILFC, according to Ascend, and also has six
Embraer SA and Bombardier Inc. turboprops.  The first investor in Malev, Italian carrier Alitalia SpA,
was forced to surrender its stake in 1997 following an EC aid
inquiry, and talks later took place with most major European
airlines, including British Airways, Air France and Lufthansa.  The airline was finally unloaded at the seventh attempt,
resulting in its second privatization in 2007, with Russian
entrepreneur Boris Abramovich, owner of OAO KrasAir, taking a
stake via a partnership, AirBridge, with Hungarian investors,
just as the credit crunch precipitated a collapse in  air travel .  The economic crisis led to the unravelling of the takeover
of Malev as Ambramovich’s own Russian network collapsed, leading
to his replacement by Vnesheconombank, with Hungary subsequently
compelled to renationalize the carrier.  Spanair became the first scheduled European airline to
collapse since the last recession after  Qatar Airways Ltd., (105701QD)  the
second-biggest Middle Eastern carrier, halted bid talks and the
Catalonia government indicated it would no longer supply funds.  The airline, founded in 1986, was Spain’s fourth-biggest by
passenger numbers, carrying almost 13 million in 2011 from 15
Spanish airports using a fleet of Airbus SAS A320 series jets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  