-- Muni Rally Drives Yields Near Record Low as Demand Rises Amid Supply Slump
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-02-01T20:45:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/municipal-bond-rally-drives-yields-near-record-lows-amid-declining-supply.html
Municipal bonds rallied for a fifth-
straight day, the most this year, driving 10-year yields near
record lows amid scarce supply and rising demand for the
securities from mutual funds.  The  yield  on top-rated tax-exempt bonds maturing in 10
years fell 2.2 basis points to 1.77 percent at 3 p.m. in  New
York , according to a Bloomberg Valuation Index. On Jan. 19, the
rate touched 1.75 percent, the  lowest  since Bloomberg began
compiling the data in January 2009. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  “You have money coming in and you have investors who have
to put the money to work,” Jason Hannon, a trader at  New York- 
based Arbor Research & Trading Inc., said in a telephone
interview. “Couple that with lighter-than-expected supply, and
that’s going to act as a driver to keep the yields low.”  The amount of local-government  debt  scheduled for sale in
the next 30 days dropped to $6.27 billion today, about $1
billion less than the average from the past 12 months, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mutual funds that focus on U.S. municipal bonds received
about $513 million in net additions in the week ended Jan. 25,
according to Lipper US Fund Flows data. It was the eighth-
straight week of gains, the longest stretch of increases since
November 2010, the data show.  Investors are poised to collect $31.6 billion this month
from coupon and principal payments on municipal securities, up
from about $30 billion in January, Chris Mauro, head of U.S.
municipal strategy at  RBC Capital Markets  in New York, said by
e-mail.  Municipal-bond yields fell as 10-year Treasuries snapped a
five-session rally today as U.S. manufacturing expanded in
January at the fastest pace since June, curbing demand for the
safety of government debt.  Yields (USGG10YR)  rose 4 basis points to 1.84
percent at 3:44 p.m. in New York, up from an almost four-month
low yesterday, according to a Bloomberg index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  