-- Avenue Clothing Chain Owner United Retail Files Bankruptcy
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-02-01T17:33:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/united-retail-files-for-bankruptcy-protection-plans-sale-to-versa-capital.html
United Retail Group Inc (URGI) ., owner of
the  Avenue  plus-size women’s clothing stores, filed for
 bankruptcy court  protection citing leasing costs and announced
plans to sell the company.  An affiliate of  Versa Capital Management , a Philadelphia-
based private-equity firm, agreed to serve as the lead, or
stalking-horse, bidder in a court-supervised auction, United
Retail said today in a statement.  “We are seeking relief from disproportionately high costs
for many of our leases that were signed prior to the
recession,” United Chief Executive Officer Dawn Robertson said
in the statement. “Through Chapter 11 relief and a lease
renegotiation process, the turnaround of Avenue can continue.”  The company, based in Rochelle Park,  New Jersey , listed
assets of $117.2 million and debt of $67.3 million in Chapter 11
documents filed in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan. It will
seek court approval to borrow as much as $40 million from  Wells
Fargo & Co.  to carry it through the bankruptcy process,
according to the statement.  Redcats USA, a division of French retailer  PPR SA (PP) , bought
United for $198.9 million in 2007.  Redcats USA  is a catalog and
online marketer of clothing and home products. Its brands
include Roaman’s, Jessica  London , BrylaneHome, KingSize, the
Sportsman’s Guide and OneStopPlus.com. PPR, based in Paris, is
the owner of the Gucci luxury brand.  Closing Some Stores  PPR rose 2.7 percent to 123.55 euros in Paris trading. The
shares reached 123.65 euros, the highest since Aug. 4, after the
sale of the United unit was announced in the U.S.  The sale “was part of a strategic decision by Redcats USA
to focus its business online moving forward,” Redcats USA
Executive Vice President John Heaney said in the statement.  United, which has 433 Avenue stores in the U.S., hired
AlixPartners LLP to advise the company.  Kirkland & Ellis LLP  is
its legal adviser. The company plans to close 14 stores in the
next month, according to court papers.  Among the largest unsecured creditors listed in court
documents were Valentine USA of  New York , owed $1.95 million; LF
Centennial Pte Ltd. of  Singapore , owed $1.91 million; Porta
Asiatica Enterprise of Shanghai, owed $1.24 million; and Vanity
Fair Brands LP of Charlotte,  North Carolina , owed $793,000.  Robertson said in court papers that Avenue, which sells
women’s clothing in sizes 14 and up, generated about $300
million in sales last year, with a pretax loss of $28 million.  In addition to lease expenses, she blamed “adverse
economic conditions,” marketing and pricing problems, and
retail sales declines for the bankruptcy.  The case is In re United Retail Group Inc., 12-10405. U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  