-- Huntsman, Celanese Seen as Cheap Takeovers
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-02-01T15:11:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/huntsman-celanese-seen-as-cheap-takeovers.html
Huntsman Corp. (HUN)  and  Celanese Corp. (CE)  are
turning into the cheapest takeover targets in the U.S. chemicals
industry as signs grow that a strengthening economy will boost
demand for paint ingredients and building insulation.  Huntsman, the titanium-dioxide maker founded by the father
of former Republican presidential candidate Jon Huntsman Jr.,
yesterday traded at 6.7 times estimated 2012 earnings, the
lowest valuation among 29 U.S. basic and diversified chemicals
companies with market values of more than $1 billion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Celanese, the world’s biggest
producer of acetic acid, was the second-cheapest, at 10.1 times.  With U.S. economic growth accelerating at the fastest pace
in 18 months and confidence among U.S. homebuilders climbing to
a four-year high, analysts are projecting Huntsman and Celanese
will both post record sales this year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. After Eastman Chemical Co. agreed last week to
pay the U.S. industry’s highest sales multiple in eight years to
buy Solutia Inc., Huntsman and Celanese may now attract takeover
offers at least 40 percent above yesterday’s share prices,
according to Alembic Global Advisors.  “Huntsman is at a very attractive valuation,” Jake Dollarhide, chief executive officer of Longbow Asset Management
in Tulsa,  Oklahoma , said in a telephone interview. “Chemicals
have always been an economic play. If you think the recovery is
in its infancy, then chemical investments could be a home run.”  Kurt Ogden, a spokesman at Salt Lake City-based Huntsman,
and Linda Beheler of Dallas-based Celanese, declined to comment
on whether the companies were considering a sale.  Styrofoam Clamshells  Shares of Huntsman surged as much as 6.1 percent and were
up 5.7 percent to $13.46 at 10:08 a.m. in New York. The gain was
the third-biggest among 76 companies in the Russell 1000
Materials & Processing Index. Celanese rose 3.7 percent to
$50.51.  Huntsman was founded in 1982 by its 74-year-old chairman,
Jon Huntsman Sr., who helped invent the plastic egg carton and
the Styrofoam clamshell boxes used by McDonald’s Corp. to
package its Big Mac sandwiches. His eldest son, also named Jon,
was Huntsman’s vice chairman from 1993 to 2001.  The 51-year-old former ambassador to  China  and governor of
 Utah  sold his individual stake when Huntsman went public in
2005. The Huntsman family and its foundation still  control  about
19 percent of the company, which gets almost 40 percent of sales
from polyurethane products such as foam insulation and resins
for composite wood panels, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Apollo LBO  Once worth $7.3 billion, Huntsman lost more than half its
value in less than five years as the financial crisis scuttled a
$9.8 billion leveraged buyout by Apollo Global Management LLC
announced in 2007 and cut operating income 65 percent in 2008.  In August, Huntsman plunged 31 percent after reporting
second-quarter profit that fell short of analysts’ estimates as
it made less money selling adhesives and fuel additives.  After ending at $12.73 a share yesterday, Huntsman was
valued at $3.03 billion, or 6.7 times analysts’ estimates for
$455 million in  profit  this year, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. That was about half the average of 13.7 times earnings for
comparable basic and diversified U.S. chemical companies.  Huntsman, which analysts say will also post sales of $11.7
billion this year, was valued at a 72 percent discount to
 revenue , the data show.  “There’s more to the company than the share price is
showing, but it can’t be realized without something changing,”
Charles Neivert, a New York-based analyst at Dahlman Rose & Co.,
said in a telephone interview.  Relative Value  Celanese, which fell as much as 45 percent from a record in
July on speculation a weakening global economy would damp
demand, has since recovered more than half the decline on signs
a U.S. recovery may be gaining momentum.  While the maker of acid used to produce paints, cigarette
filters and playing cards is now projected to post record sales
this year and next, Celanese still traded at  10.1 times 
estimated 2012 profit, less than any chemical maker except
Huntsman. Based on next year’s projected earnings, Celanese was
also the second cheapest, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Huntsman may attract BASF SE or  Saudi Basic Industries
Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s two largest chemical makers, which would
increase their share of U.S. sales as growth in the world’s
largest economy accelerates, Longbow’s Dollarhide said.  GDP Growth  U.S. gross domestic product climbed at a 2.8 percent annual
rate in the last three months of last year, the fastest pace
since the second quarter of 2010. The National Association of
Home Builders/Wells Fargo gauge of  U.S. homebuilder confidence 
last month exceeded economists’ forecasts, reaching the highest
level since June 2007 as all four U.S. regions improved.  Celanese could generate interest from Sabic, as Saudi Basic
Industries is known, and LyondellBasell Industries NV, as a
slide in natural  gas prices  to a 10-year low boosts profit, said
 Hassan Ahmed , an analyst at Alembic Global Advisors in  New York .  Huntsman and Celanese sell chemicals that are made from oil
or gas, and lower natural gas costs in the U.S. give domestic
producers an advantage.  “If I were outside the U.S. and I’m seeing the trends that
are prevalent these days, even if I already have a presence I’d
want to bulk up,” Ahmed said in a telephone interview. “A
whole host of chemical companies in the U.S. are still very
cheaply valued and will benefit for several years from low
natural gas prices.”  BASF, Sabic  John C. Schmidt, a spokesman for Ludwigshafen, Germany-
based BASF, and  David Harpole , a spokesman for Rotterdam-based
LyondellBasell, declined to comment on whether the companies are
considering an acquisition.  Jose Ramon Tarazona, a spokesman at Riyadh-based Sabic,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment outside
normal business hours.  Buyers may be willing to pay as much as $24 a share for
Huntsman, according to Alembic Global. That’s 89 percent more
than its price yesterday. Celanese may be valued at $70 a share
in a takeover, or a 44 percent  premium , Alembic Global said.  Westlake Chemical Corp. (WLK)  and Eastman Chemical both offered
premiums of 50 percent in chemical deals worth more than $6
billion combined last month, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Westlake, the Houston-based plastics maker controlled by
the Chao family, on Jan. 13 made a $1.68 billion bid for
Atlanta-based  Georgia Gulf Corp. (GGC) ,  North America ’s largest maker
of vinyl construction products. Westlake said today that Georgia
Gulf had rejected a second offer that was increased by 17
percent to $35 a share.  Solutia Deal  Eastman Chemical, the biggest U.S. producer of chemicals
from coal, agreed to buy St. Louis-based Solutia Inc. on Jan. 27
for $4.5 billion to expand in materials for tires and in films
used in iPads. The offer from Kingsport, Tennessee-based Eastman
Chemical valued Solutia at 2.2 times sales, the highest multiple
for U.S. chemical makers worth at least $2 billion since 2003,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Any economic slowdown could dissuade potential acquirers
from pursuing Huntsman or Celanese, according to Mike Ritzenthaler, a Minneapolis-based analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos.
Both chemical makers have more debt relative to equity than any
of their rivals, which could also deter buyers, he said.  Mark Demos , a Minneapolis-based manager at Fifth Third
Asset Management, says he’s optimistic a recovery in the  U.S.
economy  will make chemical makers more attractive and that
Celanese and Huntsman would make sense as takeover candidates.  “Chemicals in general are hot,” Demos said in a telephone
interview. That’s because “people feel better that global
economic growth is going to be OK,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net ;
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 