-- Walker’s Union Law Has Wisconsin Saving Money as Teachers Leave Classrooms
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2012-02-01T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/walker-s-union-law-has-wisconsin-saving-money-as-teachers-leave-classrooms.html
When  Wisconsin (STOWI1)  Governor  Scott Walker 
championed a law restricting collective bargaining for most
public employees, he gave school districts cost-cutting tools.
He also took away something: $800 million in aid.  The exchange, which helped trigger recall drives that
threaten Walker himself, has created winners and losers among
districts trying to control expenses. It also raised questions
about how schools should attract and retain quality educators,
said administrators on both sides of the debate.  Almost 5,000 teachers, administrators and staff members
retired last year, doubling the 2010 number, according to the
Wisconsin Retirement System. Classes in hundreds of schools have
grown as there are fewer to lead them. And for every district 
that says it has benefited financially as teachers contribute 
more toward retirement and medical care, others say they have
lost, according to a  survey  by the Wisconsin Association of 
School District Administrators.  “Some good things came out of it and some bad things came
out of it,” Miles Turner, the association’s executive director,
said in a telephone interview. “It helped every district by
recapturing benefit costs, but that relief was not equivalent to
the loss in revenue.”  The measures pushed by Walker, 44, set off the most
prominent of several confrontations between labor and the
Republican governors of Midwest states. Ohio voters repealed a
law in November limiting collective bargaining for public
employees that first-term Governor  John Kasich  pushed last year.
Indiana’s Legislature is poised to approve a bill that would
exempt nonunion employees from paying dues when working
alongside union workers, making it the nation’s 23rd right-to-
work state.  Net Teacher Gain  The  Wisconsin  law requires public employees to pay 5.8
percent of their salaries for pension benefits and 12.6 percent
of the premiums for health care, which Walker said would give
schools greater financial flexibility. Cullen Werwie, Walker’s
press secretary, said that the changes have been good for
education and that teacher hirings outnumber dismissals.  “The results speak for themselves,” he said in an e-mail.  The law is at the center of the fight to recall his boss.  Walker’s opponents submitted more than 1 million signatures
Jan. 17, almost twice as many as needed to force the third
recall election of a U.S. governor. State election officials are
examining the validity of the petitions.  Mass Retirement  “It’s like that old labor song, ‘Whose Side Are You On?’”
said Mordecai Lee, a political scientist at the University of
Wisconsin  Milwaukee . “In Wisconsin, just about everyone except
the little old lady off the grid has taken sides.”  Turner said the law’s impact varies with the availability
of federal stimulus money, student enrollment, the overall
financial health of districts and the status of their contracts
-- the higher employee contributions don’t begin until labor
deals expire.  In the district of Elmbrook, a suburb west of Milwaukee, 52
teachers -- 10 percent of the faculty -- retired at the end of
the last academic year.  “That was unprecedented,” said Keith Brightman, assistant
superintendent for finance, operations and human resources.  The district, which serves 7,000 students, started the
school year with a projected $8 million deficit, Brightman said
in a telephone interview. It closed almost half of it with the
higher contributions from teachers, whose contracts ended June
30. The remaining gap was bridged with reductions in health care
and retirement coverage, Brightman said.  Retaining Rookies  “This is a key benefit to us, as labor represents 80
percent of our costs,” he said. “The conversation now is how
do we keep those great new teachers and maintain the quality
that we’ve had?”  The state’s largest district, Milwaukee Public Schools with
80,000 students, is in the middle of a contract and does not
benefit from the law, said Roseann St. Aubin, a spokeswoman.  Nor does the Racine Unified School District, in the state’s
southeast corner. David Hazen, the chief financial officer, said
he is worried about a state-approved voucher program that he
says provides incentives for residents to move their children
out of public schools -- along with the state funding that comes
with them.  “There are 250 vouchers this year, 500 next year, and then
it’s unlimited,” Hazen said. “That’s when we’re looking at
extreme distress on the system.”  Not So Easy  When Walker ran for governor in 2010, he argued that public
employees should pay more for benefits, saying they are the
haves “and the taxpayers who foot the bills are the have-
nots.”  A Jan. 25  poll  by Marquette University Law School reported
74 percent of respondents favor requiring state workers to pay
more for pension and health benefits; 48 percent support limits
on collective bargaining, while 47 percent oppose; and 65
percent are against reductions in aid to public schools.  Patrick Meyer , a social-studies teacher in the Kaukauna
Area School District, near Appleton, now has six classes instead
of five and one planning period instead of two. Since
retirements and dismissals last year, class sizes “have bumped
up,” he said.  “I don’t think the public has a lot of sympathy for us,
and I don’t expect it,” Meyer, 38, said in a telephone
interview. “But the essential question is, ‘What do they want?
If this job is so great and such cake, why isn’t John Q. Public
banging down the doors to do it? The reason why? It is hard.”  No Cure-All  Campaign ads supporting Walker ahead of the possible recall
election have called Kaukauna schools beneficiaries of the new
law.  “We are in a better place financially as a result of this
legislation,” District Administrator Mary Weber said in an e-
mail, saying that she expects no dismissals in the coming school
year. While the law worked for the Kaukauna district, “it is
not necessarily a panacea for all,” Weber said.  It has undermined the ability of Monona Grove schools, near
Madison, to recruit teachers, said superintendent Craig Gerlach.  “It’s not working for us,” Gerlach said in a telephone
interview. “There’s a level of unfairness here, and we can’t
continue to balance the budget on the backs of our employees.”  “It’s going to cost you $75,000 or $100,000 to go to
college to become a teacher,” he added, “and in our district
you’re going to make $29,000. Why would you do that?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  