-- WaMu Wins Approval to Settle Dispute With Warrant Holders
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-02-01T20:25:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/wamu-wins-approval-to-settle-dispute-with-holders-of-litigation-warrants.html
Washington Mutual Inc. (WM) , the former
owner of the biggest  U.S. bank  to fail, won approval to settle a
dispute with investors who hold warrants related to a lawsuit
against the U.S. government.  The settlement ends an appeal related to the lawsuit and
will free $337 million that had been held in reserve, WaMu
Attorney  Brian Rosen  said in court today. The dispute had
threatened to delay payments related to the company’s proposed
$7 billion reorganization plan, Rosen said in a hearing in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington,  Delaware .  “Sometimes it’s better to settle than to fight,” Arthur Steinberg, an attorney for the warrant holders, said in court
today.  Later this month, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath will
consider approving WaMu’s reorganization plan, which is based on
a series of settlements among creditors, WaMu, the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , which bought
WaMu’s bank for $1.9 billion in 2008.  The Seattle-based company filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 26,
2008, the day after its banking unit was taken over by
regulators and sold to JPMorgan.  Investors who hold so-called litigation tracking warrants
will be given almost 9 percent of the common stock of the only
part of WaMu that may survive the bankruptcy under the
reorganization proposal, a reinsurance company. The investors
also would receive as much as $19 million from two potential
pools of cash set up to pay different classes of creditors.  Successful Lawsuit  The warrants are tied to a successful lawsuit WaMu
inherited when it took over Dime Bancorp in 2002. WaMu won the
lawsuit, which related to the savings and loan crisis of the
1980s, against the U.S. government.  A judge in the lawsuit awarded damages of at least $350
million.  Warrant holders claimed at least 85 percent of any award in
the case was theirs. Walrath ruled the holders were only
entitled to common stock worth 85 percent of the eventual
judgment, not any cash. Because WaMu filed bankruptcy, the
common stock may never be worth as much as the eventual cash
award.  The warrant holders dropped their appeal of Walrath’s
ruling as part of the settlement.  WaMu’s 5.5 percent bonds that matured in August rose more
than 8 percent to 117 cents on the dollar, according to Trace,
the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  The bankruptcy case is In re  Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ) ,
08-12229, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  