-- Why Europe Really Must Pursue ‘Structural Reform’: Clive Crook
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2012-02-01T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/why-europe-really-must-pursue-structural-reform-clive-crook.html
While  Europe ’s governments struggle
to contain their debt meltdown, a big part of what’s gone wrong
is easy to forget.  Through force of repetition, starting not just with this
emergency but before the single-currency experiment even began,
calls for “structural reform” in the European Union have become
an empty incantation. It’s worth pausing to understand just how
badly parts of the EU still need it.  We’ll get to what structural reform actually means in a
second. First, consider Spain. Last week its  unemployment rate 
rose to 22.9 percent. Think about that. In the U.S.,
unemployment of 8 percent is rightly seen as a national
disaster. Joblessness in Spain is nearly triple that.  Spain  has
14 percent of the euro area’s population and a third of its
unemployed. Among young people, one in two is without work. And
Spain, like many other EU countries, expects to fall back into
recession this year, so those numbers are going higher.  Let’s acknowledge that the now familiar cycle of credit-
driven boom and bust is mostly what lies behind this social and
economic catastrophe. Spain’s euro membership drove  interest
rates  too low and optimism too high; borrowing and asset prices
soared; housing and construction boomed; then the bubble burst,
and the economy collapsed.  Look Beyond Cycle  The public-sector profligacy that played such a leading
role in  Greece ’s version of this calamity was absent, by the
way. Spain was balancing its budget before the crisis, and even
now its public  debt  is lower than  Germany (EUDB60DE) ’s. Yet the  risk
premium  on Spanish public borrowing is now so crippling, and the
country’s growth prospects so poor, that analysts are talking
about a possible default. And, to repeat, one in four Spaniards
is without a job.  The focus on borrowing and lending isn’t wrong, but you
have to look beyond the financial cycle to understand Spanish
unemployment. Why has the recession hit so hard? And why is it
so expensive for Spain to borrow?  Here’s where “structural reform” comes into play. Maybe
second only to Greece, Spain is Europe’s most notorious instance
of a broken labor market. In Spain, as in many other failing EU
countries, “structural reform” means “labor-market reform” --
and “labor-market reform” is a euphemism for confronting the
unions.  Spain has two main forms of labor contract: temporary and
permanent. This division and its implications are admirably
explained by Samuel Bentolila and his colleagues at Spain’s
Centro de Estudios Monetarios y Financieros research institute
in a  paper  published by the Centre for Economic Policy Research
in  London . Temporary workers, who make up about a third of the
workforce, have few rights and are easy to fire; permanent
workers have lots of rights and are nearly impossible to fire.
In addition, collective bargaining happens not at the level of
the factory or the company but at the level of industries and
entire provinces, and collective-bargaining agreements have the
force of law.  As a result, companies facing worsened circumstances can’t
adjust the wages, benefits or working conditions of permanent
workers. Temporary workers, with no rights, are left to carry
the whole burden. In simple terms, when business slumps, instead
of wages falling across the whole economy (or growing more
slowly than they otherwise would have), temporary workers get
fired. Nearly 90 percent of workers who’ve lost their jobs since
2007, according to Bentolila, had temporary contracts.  Reluctance to Hire  In Spain, nearly all of the adjustment to an economic
contraction falls on the quantity of temporary workers with
jobs, and almost none on the price of permanent workers.
Moreover, when demand picks up, companies are reluctant to take
on new permanent workers because getting rid of them is so hard.
That’s why during the recession, Spain suffered the highest
employment losses per percentage point of falling  GDP (SPNAGDPQ) , not just
in the European Union, but out of all industrial economies.
That’s why its unemployment  rate  was so high to begin with (11
percent in 2008), and why its unemployment, having soared, will
be so hard to drive down.  The system has other, more subtle perversities. It is anti-
growth and anti-competition. Why? Because it gives big companies
an advantage over small and medium-sized rivals. Big companies
can afford to set pay and terms that are better than the
negotiated minimums, giving them a little room for maneuver.
Smaller companies, aspiring to be bigger, are more often at the
minimums, hence more tied down. Also, big companies can use the
rules strategically: Agreeing to higher minimums puts upstart
competitors at a disadvantage.  In the years before the crisis hit, Spain’s wage-setting
system helped push its costs of production up much faster than
in  Germany  and Europe’s other best-performing countries. Despite
this lack of competitiveness, it increased its  exports  at a
respectable clip -- but not nearly as much as Germany, and far
less than if its labor costs had been better controlled. This
accumulated competitiveness deficit will hold back Spain’s
economic growth and influence the markets’ assessment of Spain’s
ability to service its debts. That’s the connection between a
dysfunctional labor market, the risk premium on Spain’s cost of
borrowing and the danger of a Spanish default.  Like most of its predecessors, Spain’s new government is
struggling to confront the problem. And as before the unions are
pushing back hard. Spain may be the extreme case, but the
pattern is similar in many other European countries. These
battles for structural reform should have been fought and won
long ago. The need was well understood while the euro was still
on the drawing board.  Maladapted Wage Deals  To say the problem is merely the power of organized labor
is too simple-minded. Germany has strong unions yet has been
successful -- too successful from Europe’s point of view -- in
controlling wage costs and maintaining high employment. The
problem is not powerful unions in their own right, but powerful
unions combined with maladapted wage-setting arrangements that,
once established, unions are determined to defend.  That’s why it’s not only simple-minded but also plain wrong
to deny that Europe’s unions are part of the problem. Unions
arguably act in the longer-term interests of their members. What
Spain shows is that, depending on the rules, these gains may
come not mainly from the owners of capital but from fellow
workers, or ex-workers to be more precise.  In other words, there’s a social justice component to
structural reform -- but not the soak-the-rich, save-the-worker
one emphasized by the European left. It would be good to
understand that before taking sides.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed here are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 