-- Won, Rupiah Lead Declines in Asian Currencies on Regional Growth Concern
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-02-01T08:41:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/won-rupiah-lead-declines-in-asian-currencies-on-regional-growth-concern.html
South Korea ’s won and Indonesia’s
rupiah led declines in Asian currencies as data this week showed
economic growth is slowing in most of the region’s economies.  Korean exports dropped for the first time in two years,
Thai overseas sales fell in December and  Taiwan ’s  economy 
expanded at the slowest pace since 2009 last quarter. A Chinese
purchasing managers’ index released today unexpectedly rose in
January.  Thailand  and Indonesia cut borrowing costs last quarter,
while India reduced bank’s  reserve requirements  last week.  “Growth is slowing down at different degrees” in  Asia 
except China, said Chia Woon Khien, the Singapore-based head of
currency and rates strategy for Asia excluding  Japan  at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc. In “countries like India and
 Indonesia , monetary policy has started to ease and more easing
will come and that over time will undermine their currencies,”
she said.  The rupiah weakened 0.4 percent to 9,035 per dollar as of
3:38 p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. The won declined 0.3 percent to 1,126.35
and Thailand’s baht fell 0.4 percent to 31.05.  A government report today showed Indonesian exports rose
2.2 percent in December, compared with the median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey for a 3.5 percent increase and a revised 10.2
percent gain the previous month. It was the smallest advance
since September 2009.  Korean Inflation Cools  The export data “is a reminder that Indonesia isn’t
isolated from what’s going on in the world,” said  Gundy Cahyadi ,
a Singapore-based economist at Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp.
“The European crisis is putting pressure on the currencies.”  The won declined to a one-week low as data showed inflation
cooled, damping speculation policy makers will allow
appreciation to curb price gains.  Consumer prices  rose 3.4
percent in January from a year earlier, compared with 4.2
percent the month before.  Exports (KOEXTOTY)  shrank 6.6 percent, the first
decline since October 2009.  “Some investors have been betting the government will
allow currency gains to stem inflation, but today’s figures may
make them reconsider,” said Kim Doo Hyun, a Seoul-based senior
currency trader at Korea Exchange Bank.  The baht dropped the most in almost four weeks after
overseas sales fell 2.1 percent from a year earlier following a
13.1 percent decline in November, central bank data show. The
currency retreated from a seven-week high as a report today
showed inflation slowed to 3.4 percent in January, the least
since March 2011.  China Manufacturing  “The Thai economic picture isn’t that good at this
moment,” said Disawat Tiaowvanich, a foreign-exchange trader at
Bangkok Bank Pcl. “We may see fewer exporters willing to sell
the dollar, while importers may rush to buy the dollar.”  China ’s yuan was little changed at 6.3067 per dollar after
a report showed the nation’s manufacturing expanded last month
on increased new orders. The purchasing managers’  index  rose to
50.5 from 50.3 in December, more than the median estimate of
49.6 in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. Fifty is the
dividing line between contraction and expansion.  “Investor confidence got a boost by better-than-expected
PMI,” said Edmond Law, deputy head of foreign currency at BWC
Capital Markets in  Hong Kong . “It implies China’s economic
slowdown isn’t as bad as what people expected.”  Elsewhere, Taiwan’s dollar declined 0.3 percent to
NT$29.695 against the greenback and the Philippine peso slipped
0.2 percent to 42.945.  India ’s rupee was little changed at
49.4450. Financial markets in  Malaysia  were closed today for a
public holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  