-- Worst Profits Since 2006 Fail to Dent Rally in Europe Stocks
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h ,   A d r i a   C i m i n o   a n d   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-02-01T17:03:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/worst-earnings-since-2006-in-europe-fail-to-dent-rally-in-region-s-stocks.html
The highest proportion of European
companies  on record  are missing profit estimates even as the
region’s stocks post their best start to a year since 1998.  Siemens AG (SIE)  and  Ericsson AB (ERICB)  are among the 59 percent of
Stoxx Europe 600 Index companies reporting earnings that fell
short of forecasts during the current quarter, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the worst ratio since Bloomberg
started collating estimates in 2006, with 39 percent of
companies missing projections in an average quarter.  Bulls say the  Stoxx 600  will extend this year’s 4 percent
gain as the region’s stocks are still cheap and efforts by the
 European Central Bank  to boost lending will help liquidity. The
rally will fade as analysts’ 2011 earnings projections are too
positive even after a 9 percent cut, according to money managers
at Robeco Gestions SA and Banque Palatine SA.  “Analysts in  Europe  are much too optimistic,” said Yves Maillot, the Paris-based head of investments at Robeco Gestions,
which oversees $6.8 billion. “The market is underestimating the
potential for negative economic growth surprises.” His Robeco
Active Quant Allocation fund topped 96 percent of peers in 2011,
avoiding losses in a year when the Stoxx 600 slumped 11 percent.  Earnings Miss  Twenty of the 34 companies in the Stoxx 600 that released
results from Jan. 9 through yesterday had per-share earnings
that trailed behind analyst estimates, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Earnings for members of the  gauge  probably rose
by 12 percent on average in 2011 and may increase a further 7
percent this year, according to more than 12,000 analyst
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Stoxx 600  rallied 4 percent in January, the best start
to a year since 1998, Bloomberg data show. The measure advanced
20 percent from its Sept. 22 low through Jan. 26, entering the
second  bull market  in less than a year. The index climbed 2
percent to 259.51 today. The surge in stocks is outpacing
earnings prospects as  Spain ’s economy shrinks and borrowing
costs in Portugal this week climbed to a euro-era record,
according to Matthieu Giuliani, who helps oversee $4 billion at
Banque Palatine in Paris.  “Across the board, there has been a clear slowdown in
earnings,” said Giuliani. “It’s best to remain cautious.”  Siemens, Ericsson  Siemens (SIE) , Europe’s biggest engineering company, has dropped
2.4 percent in 2012 as fiscal first-quarter earnings missed
analysts’ estimates and it cautioned that targets for the full
year have become more challenging to reach. Profit at Ericsson,
the world’s largest maker of wireless networks, also fell short
of forecasts amid slower spending from North American customers.  Analysts reduced estimates for last year’s earnings at
Stoxx 600 companies to 23.20 euros a share in December from
25.50 euros in the first month of 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Even after last month’s gains, the Stoxx 600 is trading at
10.4 times the projected earnings of its companies, compared
with the five-year average  valuation  of 11.9, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That means European stocks are still
attractive, according to Bill Dinning, the Edinburgh-based
strategy chief at Kames Capital Plc, which manages about $75
billion.  “Equities are good value,” Dinning said. “The ECB
actions in terms of helping the financial sector have genuinely
eased those more extreme concerns and that justifies the market
going up.”  Cheap Money  The ECB is flooding the banking system with cheap money in
a bid to avert a credit crunch after the market for unsecured
bank debt withered and funding from U.S. money markets dried up.
The central bank lent an unprecedented 489 billion euros ($643
billion) for three years in December. It’s due to hold a second
auction on Feb. 29.  Europe remains the most out-of-favor region for global
money managers as European Union policy makers grapple with the
debt crisis, according to a Bank of America Corp. survey of
asset allocators who manage a combined $655 billion. The yield
on  Portugal ’s 10-year bonds climbed to a euro-era record of
almost 17.4 percent on Jan. 30 amid concern a Greek debt
writedown being negotiated with investors may lead to a similar
deal in Portugal.  EU leaders agreed this week on a fiscal-discipline deal
that allows for sanctions on high-deficit states and requires
members to enact laws to limit budget shortfalls. The U.K. and
the  Czech Republic  refused to sign the pact.  ‘Political Solutions’  Stock-market gains will not continue until politicians
provide solutions that ease investors’ concerns about slowing
economic growth in the region, according to Mark Glazener, a
Rotterdam-based  fund manager  at Robeco Groep NV. Robeco oversees
150 billion euros for clients.  “The problems in Europe will continue to haunt the equity
markets,” Glazener said in a Bloomberg Television interview
yesterday. “We’re coming into a year where GDP growth will be
less than last year. The firepower has to come from political
solutions.”  Euro-area gross domestic product will contract 0.5 percent
in 2012 after growth of 1.5 percent last year, economists’
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg show. An  index  of executive and
consumer confidence in the region’s economic outlook improved
less than forecast in January, according to data released by the
European Commission yesterday.  “You’ve not even seen 50 percent of companies beating
earnings estimates and this shows just how weak the overall
economy is,”  Philippe Gijsels , head of research at BNP Paribas
Fortis Global Markets, said in a phone interview from Brussels.
“Weak economic figures and weak company fundamentals make me
cautious on risky assets at the moment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net ;
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  