-- WuXi’s Margins Dwarfing U.S. Lead China’s Drug Targets: Real M&A
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-02T16:06:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/wuxi-profit-margins-dwarfing-u-s-lead-china-s-drug-deal-targets-real-m-a.html
Companies looking to profit from the
world’s fastest growing drug market and conduct animal research
at half the cost of U.S. testing are making China’s  WuXi
PharmaTech (Cayman) Inc.  and  ShangPharma (SHP)  Corp. takeover targets.  WuXi, China’s biggest medical contract researcher, is
generating  profit margins  that outstrip its U.S. rivals by
almost five times, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
ShangPharma, which like WuXi offers research including animal
testing, traded at  7.9 times  estimated 2012 profit yesterday,
half the average for its U.S. rivals, the data show.  With China’s pharmaceutical market projected to grow to
$115 billion by 2015, WuXi and ShangPharma’s position as the
nation’s largest research contractors by sales may spur takeover
offers from global rivals including  Quintiles Transnational
Corp. (QTRN)  and  Pharmaceutical Product Development Inc. (PPDI) , Oppenheimer &
Co. and CLSA said. WuXi, which analysts project will post record
 sales  for four more years, could justify a bid 60 percent higher
than  yesterday’s price , according to William Blair & Co.  “We see a big gap between WuXi and ShangPharma valuations
versus their U.S. peers,” said Ingrid Yin, New York-based China
health-care analyst with Oppenheimer. “WuXi and ShangPharma are
both very interesting potential targets. They represent a big
opportunity in China.”  WuXi’s (WX)  shares climbed 3.4 percent to $14.02 at 11:04 a.m.
in  New York  today, while ShangPharma rose 2.3 percent to $8.90.  ‘Not Surprising’  Ron Aldridge, a spokesman for Shanghai-based WuXi, declined
to comment on takeover speculation.  “Given the current valuations and multiples, it’s not
surprising that a lot of people are interested in ShangPharma
from a value perspective,” William Dai, chief financial officer
for Shanghai-based ShangPharma, said in a telephone interview.
He declined to comment on whether the company has been
approached by potential buyers.  Quintiles, the world’s biggest conductor of medical
studies, would be “delighted to acquire” companies of the
right quality, Chief Executive Officer Dennis Gillings said in a
Jan. 13 interview in  Shanghai . He didn’t specifically refer to
WuXi or ShangPharma.  Growing wealth and changing lifestyles are opening up new
markets for drugmakers in  China , where almost 100 million people
suffer from diabetes alone. The Chinese pharmaceutical market is
forecast to grow as much as 22 percent a year to reach about
$115 billion by 2015, the fastest pace in the world, according
to research firm  IMS Health Inc.   Local Testing  With China demanding local testing of medicines before it
licenses them domestically, and the cost of conducting animal
research about half that in the U.S., demand for services of
contract research organizations, or CROs, is surging, said Greg
Scott, president of Shanghai-based  ChinaBio LLC , which advises
companies on biotechnology investments in the country. Revenue
at China’s CROs may grow between 20 and 25 percent annually over
the next three to five years, from an estimated $1.35 billion
last year, according to McKinsey & Co.  WuXi and ShangPharma’s success reflects their “ability to
deliver a cost advantage while maintaining very high quality,”
said Scott. “WuXi and ShangPharma have really brought the
quality up significantly compared to what it was in China
several years ago.”  WuXi,  which employs 5,600 people  in its more than 3 million
square feet of laboratory facilities, derives more than  70
percent  of its revenue from research for U.S. companies,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Analysts estimate WuXi
will report sales of $406 million for 2011, triple its revenue
in 2007, the year it first sold shares in the U.S.  Charles River Deal  The company, which counts nine of the top 10 drugmakers
 among its clients , agreed to a $1.6 billion takeover by
Wilmington, Massachusetts-based  Charles River Laboratories
International Inc. (CRL)  in April 2010. The bid, which valued WuXi at
about 30 times 2009 profit, was scrapped three months later
after  Charles River ’s shareholders objected to the
“unreasonable price.”  The  management  of WuXi, which had a market value of $964
million yesterday, is unlikely to accept a takeover worth less
than the Charles River bid, according to Liping Cai, a Shanghai-
based health-care analyst for William Blair. An offer with an
equity value of $1.6 billion would represent a 66 percent
premium above WuXi’s price yesterday, Bloomberg data show.  ‘Improved a Lot’  With WuXi’s  2011 earnings  estimated to have increased 49
percent from the 2009 level, Charles River’s bid would now value
the company at about 20 times profit, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Including net cash, a $3.4 billion bid for PPD by Carlyle
Group LP and Hellman & Friedman last year valued the company at
21 times, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  WuXi’s “earning capabilities have improved a lot,”
Oppenheimer’s Yin said.  The company earned about 19 cents for every dollar of sales
in the past 12 months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s almost five times the median profit margin of 4 percent
for 23 U.S. health-care service companies with market values of
more than $100 million. WuXi’s rivals  Covance Inc. (CVD) ,  Icon Plc (ICON)  and
 Parexel International Corp. (PRXL)  all have profit margins of less than
6 percent, the data show.  Covance,  Icon (ICLR)  and Parexel all traded for at least 16 times
estimated 2012 earnings yesterday, compared with a price-to-
earnings ratio of 10.8 for WuXi. ShangPharma, which had a market
value of $163 million, traded for 7.9 times projected profit.
The average U.S. health-care services company had a multiple of
21 times, the data show.  ‘More Interesting’  “WuXi has a larger scale and ShangPharma is smaller but
sometimes smaller could be more interesting to strategic
buyers,” Oppenheimer’s Yin said.  ShangPharma’s sales reached $113 million last year,
according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
an 86 percent increase from 2008’s level, the data show.  Like WuXi, ShangPharma  gets  most of its revenue from U.S.-
based companies, the data show. ShangPharma is focused on early
stage discovery research, screening compounds to see which have
the potential to cure diseases.  Both companies generate the bulk of their revenue from
laboratory research, rather than the later stage of drug testing
--  conducted on patients  in doctor’s offices or hospitals --that
many global peers focus on.  The former requires infrastructure with high fixed costs
and may deter buyers, said  Tim Evans , New York-based senior
health care analyst for Wells Fargo & Co.  “The businesses have very different economics,” he said.  ‘In China Somehow’  Still, the industry has lured bids from private equity
firms, which are interested in generating  cash flow  from the
CROs, according to Paul Knight, New York-based life sciences
analyst with CLSA. Avista Capital Partners and Ontario Teachers
 Pension Plan  last year agreed to pay $341 million, including
debt, to purchase  Kendle International Inc. (KNDL)   Global CROs, including PPD, would also be potential
bidders, he said. The early stage of research WuXi and
ShangPharma focus on ”might be complementary to international
CROs like Quintiles,” Oppenheimer’s Yin said.  “They’ve got to be in China somehow,” Knight said. “The
opportunity is going to be immense.”  --Daryl Loo, Natasha Khan, with assistance from  Ben Richardson 
and Philip Lagerkranser in  Hong Kong  and Tara Lachapelle,
Charles Mead and  Michael Tsang  in New York. Editors: Mohammed
Hadi, Jason Gale.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net ;
Natasha Khan in Hong Kong at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net . 