-- Yale Investigated 52 Sexual Misconduct Incidents in Six Months
-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 2012-02-01T21:32:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/yale-investigated-52-sexual-misconduct-incidents-in-six-months.html
Yale University , under federal
investigation over how it handles sexual harassment,
investigated 52 incidents of alleged sexual misconduct between
July and December, according to the school.  The complaints, which range from accusations of
inappropriate remarks to rape, were made public yesterday. The
 report , which will be filed semiannually, is the first since a
university committee began probing how the school responds to
the complaints.  The U.S. Department of Education’s investigation began
after a group of students and alumni filed a complaint in March
saying the university tolerated an atmosphere that was hostile
to women. The charge was given new life last week when it was
revealed that Patrick Witt, a football player who was a
candidate for a Rhodes scholarship, had been accused in an
informal complaint, a charge confirmed by his agent.  “The number of complaints of sexual misconduct brought
forward and outlined in the report is a matter of deep
concern,” President  Richard Levin  said in a statement. “Even
though only a very small fraction of our campus population is
alleged to be violating our policies, our aspiration must be to
raise the bar so that no one believes that sexual misconduct is
acceptable and all act accordingly.”  The report includes 14 complaints of sexual assault and 29
of sexual harassment. Nine faculty and staff members were
accused of sexual harassment and one of assault.  Yale has about 25,000 students, faculty and staff, said  Tom Conroy , a spokesman.  Complaint Procedures  Yale offers victims formal and informal procedures for
making complaints. In the informal process, which is non-
disciplinary, accusers can maintain their anonymity, and results
include counseling and restrictions on contact between the two
parties. Formal complaints receive a full hearing. In cases
where assault is alleged, the university may still investigate
even if the victim opts for the informal process.  Witt, through the agent representing his football career,
said his accuser chose to pursue the informal route and the
matter was resolved.  Formal complaints were brought against three undergraduate
students, one faculty member and one staff member during the
six-month period.  One student was suspended for a semester for “acts of
physical force, intimidation and coercion.” The faculty member
was given a written reprimand for violating the university’s
standards of business conduct. One student’s complaint wasn’t
investigated because it contained insufficient information, and
the other two cases are pending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in New York at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at   lwolfson@bloomberg.net  