-- Lynas Granted Temporary Rare-Earth Refining License From Malaysian Board
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y
-- 2012-02-01T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/lynas-granted-temporary-rare-earth-refining-license-from-malaysian-board.html
Malaysia’s Atomic Energy Licensing
Board granted  Lynas Corp. (LYC)  a temporary operating license to begin
refining rare earths under certain conditions following public
protests.  The Sydney-based miner will be able to start refining under
conditions that include a plan for a permanent disposal facility
and paying the government a $50 million security bond in
installments, the board said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Lynas’s plant would be the world’s largest refinery of the
minerals with total capacity of 22,000 tons per year should a
second phase be approved and completed, the company said on Nov.
16. Its plan to start production in September was delayed after
the government imposed extra safety standards recommended by an
international review panel after residents expressed fears over
possible radiation and contamination.  The Australian company, which has rejected the health
concerns, has been unable to start exporting ore to  Malaysia  for
refining after opening its A$100 million ($107 million) Mount
Weld mine in  Western Australia  in August.  Lynas’s plant is near Kuantan, the capital city of the
central Pahang state. Protests by residents and non-governmental
organizations over the past 10 months included a march on
Malaysia’s parliament and the Australian High Commission in
 Kuala Lumpur .  iPods, Flat-Screens  China , which accounts for more than 90 percent of global
output of rare earths used in flat-screen televisions and hybrid
cars, cut export quotas last year. Once in operation, Lynas’s
project may account for about 39 percent of the world’s supply
outside of China.  “While delays to construction and permitting may be
frustrating, we do believe that the necessary permits will be
granted and that, on completion of the Lynas Advanced Minerals
Plant, Lynas should be able to move rapidly to a positive cash
generation position,” Ian Preston, an analyst at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. said in a report on Jan. 24.  Rare earths, 17 chemically similar elements, are used in
Apple Inc.’s iPod music players, flat-screen televisions,
magnets and hybrid cars.  Lynas agreed last week to sell $225 million of convertible
bonds to help fund its Malaysia project. New York-based Mount
Kellett Capital Management LP agreed to buy $50 million of the
bonds initially on behalf of funds it manages and the balance
once conditions are met, the miner said in a Jan. 24 statement.  Lynas rose 0.8 percent to A$1.335 in Sydney yesterday. The
Australian benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index dropped 0.9 percent.  China has been limiting rare-earth output and exports since
2009 on concerns mining activities caused pollution and
depletion in natural resources. This tightened global supplies,
prompting key users such as  Japan  to seek alternative sources.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan in  Hong Kong  at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  