-- Hynix Reports a Second Consecutive Quarterly Loss After Chip Prices Drop
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-02-02T07:21:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/hynix-reports-second-consecutive-quaterly-loss-after-chip-prices-drop.html
Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660) , the world’s
second-largest maker of computer-memory chips, reported a wider-
than-expected fourth-quarter loss after chip prices dropped amid
slowing personal-computer sales.  The  net loss  was 239.9 billion won ($213 million) for the
three months ended Dec. 31, compared with a profit of 30 billion
won a year earlier, Ichon, South Korea-based Hynix said today in
a statement. The average of 25 analyst  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg was a loss of 161.7 billion won.  Prices for dynamic random access memory chips dropped last
year as sales of smartphones and tablets, which use a different
type of memory, cut demand for desktop and notebook units and
floods in  Thailand  disrupted PC output. The South Korean
chipmaker, set to be acquired by the country’s No. 1 mobile-
phone carrier,  SK Telecom Co. (017670) , is counting on mobile
semiconductors including NAND flash to revive earnings.  “Demand for PC DRAM won’t increase significantly,” Kim Hyung Sik, a Seoul-based analyst at Taurus Investment Securities
Co., said before today’s announcement. “NAND flash has been
consistently profitable, and there are only four companies in
the world making it. Hynix will aggressively invest in NAND
going forward.”  Spending Boost  Hynix gained 0.4 percent to 27,300 won at the close in
Seoul trading, while the benchmark Kospi index rose 1.3 percent.  The company plans to increase capital expenditure 20
percent to 4.2 trillion won this year, and more than half of
that will be spent to boost NAND flash output, Hynix said today.  Fourth-quarter  operating loss  for was 167.5 billion won on
sales of 2.55 trillion won. The full-year net loss was 56
billion won, falling from a profit of 2.6 trillion won in 2010,
while annual sales fell 14 percent to 10.4 trillion won.  The price of the benchmark  DDR3 2-gigabit DRAM  dropped 51
percent in 2011, according to data from Taipei-based
Dramexchange Technology Inc., operator of  Asia ’s largest spot
market for semiconductors.  PC makers also trimmed memory purchases because floods in
Thailand left them short of hard-disk drives needed to make
desktop and laptop computers.  Prices remained low through the fourth quarter even as
Taiwanese makers cut output because PC makers curtailed chip
purchases after the Thai floods, Shin Hyun Joon, a Seoul-based
analyst at Dongbu Securities Co., wrote in a Jan. 25 report.  PC Decline  PC shipments in the U.S. declined for the first time in a
decade last year, research firm IDC said Jan. 11.  Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  in December also reported a second
quarterly loss in a row, while Nanya Technology Corp. and
Inotera Memories Inc. last month posted their eighth quarter of
losses.  Lowering production costs by making more chips with a
circuitry narrower than 40 nanometers helped Hynix, Dongbu’s
Shin said. Miniaturization allows chipmakers to pack more memory
in each chip, making them cheaper to produce.  Led by  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , chip makers are
increasingly turning to chips for smartphones as sales of the
iPhone and other computer-like mobile devices surge.  The NAND-flash market will probably grow to $46 billion by
2015 from $21 billion in 2010, driven by use in mobile devices,
according to Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  Hynix’s expansion in  flash memory  may gain speed under new
ownership, Taurus’s Kim said.  Shareholders of the chipmaker and SK Telecom agreed to set
the final price for 21 percent of Hynix at 3.37 trillion won,
Korea Exchange Bank, which led the sale, said Jan. 31.  The phone carrier is part of  SK Group ,  South Korea ’s third-
largest industrial group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  