-- Zimbabwe Suspends 82 Soccer Players Over Probe Into Asian Match Fixing
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a
-- 2012-02-01T12:16:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-01/zimbabwe-suspends-67-soccer-players-over-probe-into-asian-match-fixing.html
Zimbabwe ’s soccer authorities have
suspended 82 players from representing the country after it
probed match fixing of unsanctioned national team games in  Asia .  The number suspended has risen from an initial 67, Jonathan
Mashingaidze, chief executive officer of the  Zimbabwe Football
Association , said in interview from Harare, the capital, today.  The probe includes friendly games played against  Thailand 
and Syria in 2008 in a tour organized by former ZIFA CEO
Henrietta Rushwaya, Mashingaidze said. Rushwaya left the
organization in 2010.  ``All those who were hotly involved in this scandal will
only play for Zimbabwe again when they have been cleared by the
ethics committee, which has begun its work to see an end to this
scandal,’’ Mashingaidze said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Hearings will start next week and will last until March
with all those on the tour including journalists, administrators
and managers will be interviewed, he said. Zimbabwe lost 6-0 to
 Syria  and 3-0 to Thailand, according to ZimOnline, an Internet
news site.  ‘Playing For Money’  “It was felt that some of the players were just playing
for money from losing matches and did not care if Zimbabwe
wins,” he said.  Those suspended will not be eligible to play for Zimbabwe
in an African Cup of Nations qualifying match against Burundi
scheduled for Feb. 29, Mashingaidze said.  Among those suspended are Ovidy Karuru, a player for U.S.
Boulogne, a team in  France ’s second division, and South African
based players including Thomas Sweswe and Willard Katsande of
Johanensburg’s Kaizer Chiefs.  Zimbabwe has plummeted down FIFA’s ranking of national
teams, falling out of the top 100 in a Jan. 18 assessment after
dropping 28 places to 98th in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Godfrey Marawanyika in Johannesburg at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  