-- ‘Broken Heart’ Remedy Key to BioLineRx Revenue: Israel Overnight
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 2012-02-16T14:43:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/-broken-heart-remedy-key-to-biolinerx-revenue-israel-overnight.html
BioLineRx Ltd. (BLRX)  is banking on
approval for a cardiac treatment to generate its first revenue
as the Israeli biopharmaceutical company plans to issue more
stock in the U.S. to fund other less developed research.  The Jerusalem-based company has “a lot of aspirations”
for the treatment, which is a “cast for a broken heart,
basically,” Chief Financial Officer Philip Serlin, 51, said
yesterday in an interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New
York. BioLineRx will need to  borrow  more money in about 15
months as it currently holds $30 million in cash, he said,
adding “we’ll try to do it in a U.S. stock offering, either
private or public.”  The company’s American depositary receipts traded on the
Nasdaq Stock Exchange fell 8.9 percent to $3.57 yesterday, as
the  Bloomberg Israel-US 25 index  of the largest Israeli
companies traded in New York climbed 1.8 percent.  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  jumped 3.4 percent to $45.04
after reporting that fourth quarter net income rose 23 percent.
The TA-25 Index fell 0.8 percent at the close in  Tel Aviv  today.  Ten-percent owned by Petach-Tikva, Israel-based  Teva (BLRX) , the
world’s largest maker of generic drugs, BioLineRx partnered with
Ikaria Holdings Inc. in Clinton,  New Jersey , to complete final
development and sale of an injectable treatment that creates a
protective shield around the heart while it recovers in the
weeks after an attack. The product is currently being reviewed
by authorities in  Europe  and the U.S., according to Serlin.  The cardiac treatment and a drug for schizophrenia are
BioLineRx’s most developed products, with the eventual sale of
the drugs likely to spur the company, which reported a net loss
of $7.94 million for the third quarter of 2011, to generate its
first sales by 2015, Serlin said.  Hepatitis Agreement  BioLineRx listed  ADRs (BLRX)  on the Nasdaq on July 25. The
company’s Tel Aviv shares dropped 9.6 percent to 1.255 shekels,
or the equivalent of 33 cents. One ADR represents 10 shares.  Stock in the U.S. surged 69 percent on Jan. 24 after
BioLineRx announced a licensing agreement for a hepatitis C
treatment with Marseille, France-based Genoscience. The deal
boosts the odds that the company may be bought, Raghuram Selvaraju, a New York-based equity analyst at Morgan Joseph
TriArtisan Group said at the time.  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  and  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  have
announced $13.3 billion of acquisitions in the past three months
to buy developers of hepatitis treatments.  The company’s business model is based on partnering with
bigger pharmaceutical companies to complete development and then
sales of products, and it isn’t focused on one particular area
of medical research, BioLineRx’s Serlin said yesterday. This
means that it probably isn’t a traditional buyout target, he
said.  ‘Sexiest Product’  BioLineRx’s cardiac treatment is in a clinical trial, which
is expected to end in 2013, Serlin said.  “It’s out sexiest product,” he said. “How do you mend a
broken heart? We have a drug for it.”  The company also develops a treatment for schizophrenia,
which affects about 1 percent of Americans,  according  to the
National Institute of Mental Health. BioLineRx’s drug is
different from the medications currently sold on the market as
it treats the cognitive as well as the psychotic impairments
caused by the disease, Serlin said.  Israel , whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to  Switzerland ’s, has about 60 companies traded on the  Nasdaq ,
the most of any country outside the U.S. after  China . The nation
is also home to more startup companies than in the U.S.
Teva’s Tel Aviv-traded  shares  gained 1.4 percent to 170.2
shekels, or the equivalent of $45.15.  Earnings ‘Encouraging’  The pharmaceutical company said  fourth-quarter  profit rose
23 percent as last year’s acquisition of biopharmaceutical
company Cephalon Inc. shifted the company further away from its
original identity as a generic drugmaker.  Teva bought Frazer, Pennsylvania-based Cephalon for $6.5
billion last year in a bid to broaden a portfolio of brand-name
drugs that has been dominated by the multiple sclerosis
treatment Copaxone.  “Teva’s earnings report is encouraging,”  David Levinson ,
an analyst at Bank Hapoalim Ltd. in Tel Aviv, wrote in an e-
mailed report yesterday. “The merger of Cephalon and growth of
other brand names are reducing the dependency on Copaxone.”  Given Imaging Ltd. (GIVN) , an Israeli maker of pill-sized cameras
for digestive diagnosis, reported fourth-quarter sales and net
income that surpassed analysts’ estimates yesterday. Shares of
the Yokneam, Israel-based company gained 4.7 percent yesterday
to $18.62 in New York. The Tel Aviv stock lost 3 percent to
70.78 shekels, or $18.78, after surging 9.6 percent yesterday.  Nice, Syneron  Nice Systems Ltd. (NICE) , a Ra’anana, Israel-based maker of
analytical telecommunications software, said net income in the
last three months of 2011 fell to $15.2 million, from $17.4
million a year earlier. The ADRs dropped 1.9 percent to $36.04.
The Israeli shares declined 2.1 percent to 134.90 shekels, or
the equivalent of $35.79.  Syneron Medical Ltd. (ELOS) , which develops aesthetic medical
devices, climbed to the highest level in three months in U.S.
trading yesterday, rising 5.7 percent to $11.54.  Shares of the Yokneam Illit, Israel-based company were
rated “buy” in initial coverage at Cantor Fitzgerald LP,
according to an e-mailed report after the market closed
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in  New York  at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  