-- ‘Linsanity’ Contender for Word of the Year, American Dialect Society Says
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-02-17T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/-linsanity-contender-for-word-of-the-year-american-dialect-society-says.html
The sports world’s newest craze has
Lin-guists impressed.  “Linsanity,” the word that has encapsulated  New York 
Knicks point guard Jeremy Lin’s rise from bench-warmer to
international sensation in less than two weeks, has thrust
itself into the American English vocabulary and been translated
into Mandarin, making it a strong early candidate for 2012’s
Word of the Year, according to the  American Dialect Society .  “It certainly has had a meteoric rise in less than two
weeks,” said Ben Zimmer, chairman of the society’s New Words
Committee.  Each January, the 122-year-old society  votes  on the top
word or phrase that has become prominent or notable in the past
year. “Occupy,” referring to the protest movement, was last
year’s winner.  Linsanity has been accompanied by puns such as
“lincredible,” “linvincible,” “linning” and
“Linderella.”  Zimmer said linsanity became popular in newspaper headlines
and social media as soon as the 23-year-old Lin, a Harvard
University graduate who was cut by two other teams, brought
Madison Square Garden fans to their feet with a 25-point, seven-
assist performance in a Feb. 4 win against the  New Jersey Nets .
His play earned him a start for the team’s next game and the
Knicks haven’t lost since, with a winning streak now of seven
games heading into tonight’s home contest against the  New
Orleans Hornets .  With Lin scoring a career-high 38 points in outdueling
 National Basketball Association  scoring leader  Kobe Bryant ;
hitting a game-winning 3-point shot against the  Toronto Raptors ,
and averaging 24.4 points and 9.1 assists per game during the
streak, ticket prices and television ratings have skyrocketed,
as well as interest in the player and the puns.  ‘So Simple’  “It’s helpful that his name, Lin, is so simple,” Zimmer,
executive producer of the Visual Thesaurus and Vocabulary.com,
said yesterday in a telephone interview. “It lends itself well
to this type of word play.”  The last time Zimmer recalls a name drawing a similar
number of puns was in 2008, when then-presidential candidate
 Barack Obama ’s name led to phrases such as “Obamomentum” and
“Obamination,” he said.  The ascension of Lin, the first Taiwanese- or Chinese-
American to play in the NBA, has left people in China trying to
figure out how best to translate the word into Mandarin,
according to Victor Mair, a professor of Chinese language and
literature at the  University of Pennsylvania .  ‘Native Feel’  Early attempts turned the expression into a Mandarin word
that translated back to English as “Lin-insane,” which
“sounded as though it had been invented by someone who doesn’t
have a native feel for Chinese word formation,” Mair said in a
blog post on the Philadelphia school’s  Language Log .  A better Chinese translation of Linsanity, pronounced as
Linlaifeng, surfaced more recently in  China , Mair said. It’s
taken from the Chinese expression “renlaifeng,” which means
get hyped up in front of an audience, he said.  Another sports-related word that took off in 2011 was
“Tebowing,” the knee-in-prayer pose that Denver Broncos
quarterback  Tim Tebow  struck after victories. It joined a group
of photo-fads that had short-lived popularity, Zimmer said. The
Broncos were eliminated in the second round of the National
Football League playoffs and Tebow was criticized by former NFL
quarterback  Kurt Warner  for the way he used his on-field fame to
promote his Christian values.  ‘Tebowing’ Panned  At the dialect society’s convention, Tebowing received
several votes in the “Least Likely to Succeed” category,
though it came in second to “brony,” an adult male fan of the
“My Little Pony” cartoon franchise. The prospects are better
for Linsanity, especially if Lin and the Knicks (15-15) continue
to excel, Zimmer said.  “It’s possible that because Jeremy Lin is not as
polarizing as Tim Tebow that will help, along with people
wanting to join in Linsanity more broadly,” Zimmer said. “He’s
someone that seems like everyone can embrace.”  The list of people finding Linsanity irresistible includes
Zimmer, a  Jersey City ,  New Jersey , resident and Nets fan who
said he’s recently discussed with his 5-year-old son who to root
for when the Nets move to  Brooklyn  next season.  “Everybody seems to be getting onboard,” Zimmer said of
Linsanity. “It’s hard to not catch that infectious excitement
about it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 