-- ‘Worrisome’ Arsenic Level Found in Baby Formula, Study Finds
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-02-16T22:43:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/-worrisome-level-of-arsenic-found-in-baby-formula-study-finds.html
A rice-based ingredient that
sometimes contains arsenic was found in infant formula,
prompting researchers at  Dartmouth College  to say there is an
“urgent need” for regulatory limits on the carcinogen in food.  Two of 17 infant formulas tested listed organic brown rice
syrup, which may contain arsenic, as the primary ingredient, and
one had a total arsenic concentration level of as much as six
times the U.S. federal limit of 10 parts per billion for
drinking water, according to a study published today in the
journal  Environmental Health Perspectives .  While arsenic has been recognized as a contaminant in
drinking water, there are currently no federal thresholds for
arsenic in juices or most foods. Legislation was introduced Feb.
8 in the U.S. House of Representatives calling on the  Food and
Drug Administration  to establish standards for arsenic and lead
in fruit juices.  “In the absence of regulations for levels of arsenic in
food, I would certainly advise parents who are concerned about
their children’s exposure to arsenic not to feed them formula
where brown rice syrup is the main ingredient,”  Brian Jackson ,
lead author of the study, said in a statement.  The study didn’t name the infant formula brands it
investigated.  Southern Rice  Nature’s One Inc. , a closely held manufacturer of baby
foods, said in a statement on its  website  that its California-
based supplier of organic brown rice syrup uses an independent
lab to test arsenic levels. “Their testing results report
undetectable amounts of arsenic at laboratory testing limits,”
it said. “Parents can rest assured that Nature’s One will test
arsenic levels for every lot” prior to production.  Rice is among plants that are efficient in taking arsenic
from the soil, regardless of whether the resulting products are
considered organic, the Dartmouth researchers said.  Most rice produced in the U.S. comes from  Arkansas ,
 Louisiana ,  Mississippi ,  Texas  and  Missouri , where the grain is
grown on soil that was formerly treated with arsenical
pesticides for cotton farming, according to a  2007 study  by
Andrew Meharg at the University of Aberdeen in  Scotland . That
study found that the arsenic level in rice grown in California
was 41 percent lower than that from the south-central U.S.  Juice Samples  Reports of arsenic in rice are misleading because the
chemical is ubiquitous and found in air, soil, water and foods,
the USA Rice Federation, an industry group in Arlington,
 Virginia , said in a statement. Organic brown rice syrup is not
widely used in U.S. food products, according to the statement.  Arsenic is also present in some types of cereal and energy
bars, as well as gel-like energy “shots,” the Dartmouth
researchers said.  In a study by  Consumer Reports  magazine published last
month, about 10 percent of juice samples from five brands had
total arsenic levels that exceeded federal drinking-water
standards. Most of the arsenic was inorganic arsenic, a known
carcinogen, according to the study.  The potential presence of the chemical element in formula
is “particularly worrisome for babies because they are
especially vulnerable to arsenic’s toxic effects,” the
Dartmouth researchers said.  Of 29 cereal or energy bars tested, the 22 containing forms
of rice had arsenic concentrations of 23 to 128 parts per
billion, while the seven bars that didn’t contain rice products
had 8 to 27 parts per billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  