-- ABB Shares Drop on Forecast for Price Pressure: Zurich Mover
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2012-02-16T10:14:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/abb-fourth-quarter-profit-rises-less-than-estimated-sees-price-pressures.html
ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , the world’s largest maker
of power-distribution equipment, fell the most in three months
after reporting earnings that missed estimates and saying that
tight pricing will weigh on profitability in the first quarter.  “We are sacrificing part of the margin to invest for the
future,” Chief Financial Officer Michel Demare said at a press
conference today in Zurich. “We are not maximizing profit in
the short term.”  Profit rose 19 percent to $830 million in the fourth
quarter, the Zurich-based company said today, falling short of
the average estimate for $935.9 million from analysts  surveyed 
by Bloomberg. Operational earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization fell in four of five of ABB’s main
businesses, as a proportion of sales.  ABB’s sales rose for a fifth consecutive quarter after
Chief Executive Officer  Joe Hogan  bolstered the Swiss
engineering company with three  acquisitions  exceeding $1 billion
since 2010. While “macroeconomic volatility” makes short-term
predictions challenging, Hogan said  North America  is recovering
and  China  is returning to growth.  The  shares declined  as much 4.8 percent, the sharpest
drop since Nov. 1, and were down 3.9 percent at 19.15 francs at
10:57 a.m. in Zurich. That pared the stock’s gain this year to
8.3 percent.  “For earnings, it’s a miss, and the first quarter is not
going to be stellar either,” said Sjoerd Ummels, an analyst at
ING Groep NV in Brussels.  Contract Mix  ABB’s “deteriorating margins” were caused by “pricing
pressure” related to its mix of contracts, CFO Demare said,
without elaborating.  So-called base orders, contracts below $15 million which
form the bulk of new business at ABB, rose 12 percent in the
quarter. Large orders advanced 38 percent and made up 23 percent
of the total, compared with 20 percent a year earlier. ABB
invested an extra $385 million in 2011 in research and
development, and sales expenses, Demare said.  “An unfavorable mix and price pressure will likely weigh
on profit margins in the first quarter, but we are more
optimistic about the rest of the year and will continue to
aggressively pursue growth,” CEO Hogan said in a statement.  Operational earnings rose 18 percent in the quarter to
$1.59 billion, with Baldor Electric Co. contributing $525
million, or one-third. Sales gained 15 percent to $10.57
billion, exceeding an estimate for $10.25 billion.  “We saw good demand for energy efficiency solutions in
industry and for grid expansions and refurbishment, and we
expect that to continue,” Hogan said.  Cost Reductions  ABB cut about $330 million in costs in the quarter,
bringing total savings for 2011 to $1.1 billion, ahead of a goal
to save $1 billion. Hogan reiterated plans to wring an
additional $1 billion in savings out of ABB in 2012.  ABB plans to pay investors a  dividend  of 0.65 Swiss francs
a share, compared with a prediction of 0.70 francs by Bloomberg.  The profit margin rose in power systems after ABB had
project-related costs for the cables business in 2010. Order
intake in that unit rose 19 percent, driven by an ultra high-
voltage transmission system in  India  and a cable order in
 Sweden . Orders advanced 7 percent in process automation, on
spending by the oil and gas industries.  “Our hope is that we start to see a bottoming of this
price pressure that we’ve seen over the past two or three
years,” Hogan said today in a video, referring to power
products. “The long-cycle nature of this business would
indicate that this is going to occur soon.”  ING Groep’s Ummels has a “buy” recommendation on ABB
shares and predicts they will rise to 21 francs within a year.  ABB must make sure it takes its time “to digest what we
acquired,” while the company will continue to seek companies to
purchase, Hogan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  