-- Madoff Trustee May Struggle to Undo HSBC Ruling, Lawyers Say
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-02-16T22:54:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/madoff-trustee-may-struggle-to-reverse-hsbc-ruling-lawyers-say.html
The liquidator of Bernard Madoff’s
firm asked an appeals court to reinstate $30 billion of his
claims against banks including  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co.   Madoff trustee  Irving Picard  filed arguments in a federal
appeals court in New York on why district judges Jed Rakoff and
 Colleen McMahon  were wrong in barring him from demanding damages
from the banks, which include  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  UniCredit SpA. (UCG)  He is
challenging two similar rulings made on “solid legal ground,”
said  Peter Henning , a former Securities and Exchange Commission
lawyer who teaches at  Wayne State University  in  Detroit .  Rakoff in July threw out almost $9 billion in damages that
Picard demanded from HSBC and feeder funds, saying the trustee
can’t sue on behalf of customers, using common-law claims
against parties who had an alleged duty to detect Madoff’s
fraud. Picard demanded $19 billion in damages from the con man’s
banker, JPMorgan, which McMahon also dismissed.  “The chances are not good for turning around a ruling on a
matter where the court has substantial discretion,” said
Michael Clark, a lawyer with Duane Morris LLP in Houston who
specializes in financial fraud and has handled appeals. “He has
to show the court misapplied the law in a way that’s beyond a
discretion call. Rakoff is a very bright judge, and he sets out
clearly why he’s ruled.”  Right to Sue  Ruling that Picard has no right to pursue lawsuits on
behalf of the con man’s customers, the judges cited the U.S.
Constitution, which says only a party injured by the defendant
can sue in a federal court, and previous appeals court rulings.  “The district court’s holding is erroneous,” Picard said
in his filing in the HSBC case.  As a trustee, he has “exclusive standing to assert claims
to redress common injuries suffered by all customers,” Picard
said, citing an appeals court ruling.  Other parts of the judges’ rulings he termed “legal
error.” The trustee’s allegations against the banks “should
have been given the utmost deference,” Picard said. “The
trustee is not a wrongdoer, fraudster or criminal.”  Picard, appointed to liquidate the Madoff brokerage by the
Securities Investor Protection Corp., said that corporation has
advanced about $800 million to satisfy claims by Madoff
customers and therefore has right to recover money “from those
legally responsible for the damage.”  Smaller Pot  If Picard loses the appeals, Madoff clients will have a
smaller pot from which to recover losses, and investors who
bought claims on the con man’s estate at a discount may lose the
bets they made. The trustee’s more than 1,000 suits demanded
about $100 billion initially.  Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the lawyers’ views that
overturning the judges’ rulings would be hard. She has
previously said Picard remains confident of his right to make
the claims against the banks.  Picard, a New York lawyer who has earned more than
$200 million in fees for himself and his  law firm  since Madoff’s
2008 arrest, has permission to file 17,500-word briefs with the
appeal judges. A victory would allow him to replenish the
jackpot he tried to gather through lawsuits for Madoff’s
customers.  “There is a good fairness argument he can make,” Henning
said. “He can say, ‘Look, I’m in here trying to protect these
people’ -- but unfortunately that doesn’t trump the law.”  ‘Crooked Man’  One reason why Picard can’t sue the banks, the judges said,
was that he represents the Madoff estate, not the con man’s
customers, as he had argued. Doing so, he stands in the shoes of
a Ponzi scheme operator, and can’t legally accuse others of
wrongdoing.  “That’s how the legal doctrine works,” Henning said.
“The trustee for a crooked man can’t accuse others of
wrongdoing.” The appeals court probably won’t rewrite that law,
he said.  Picard’s demands for money from New York-based JPMorgan,
Madoff’s primary banker, equaled his estimate of principal lost
by all Madoff investors by the time the  Ponzi scheme  collapsed
in December 2008, according to his lawsuit. The bank could have
stopped the fraud if it had passed on its suspicions to
regulators, he alleged.  JPMorgan said it didn’t know about the fraud, or in any way
participate in it, and couldn’t be held responsible for a scheme
orchestrated by Madoff alone.  Picard Faulted  HSBC faulted Picard for his theory that the bank had
obligations to all Madoff investors and should have probed the
fraud. HSBC wasn’t the “watchman” for all the con man’s
investors and didn’t owe them any duty, a lawyer for the London-
based bank said at a court hearing before Rakoff last year in
 Manhattan .  In his biggest case, Picard wants as much as $59 billion --
including triple damages based on racketeering allegations that
Rakoff is examining -- from UniCredit and Bank Medici AG and its
founder, Sonja Kohn. Tomorrow’s appeals involve a smaller amount
sought from  Italy ’s UniCredit.  Madoff, 73, is serving a 150-year sentence in a federal
prison in  North Carolina .  The main case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v.
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-ap-1789,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  