-- Thailand May Say Economy Shrank After Flooding Shut Honda, Canon Factories
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   M i c h a e l   M u n o z
-- 2012-02-17T01:28:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/thailand-may-say-economy-shrank-after-flooding-shut-honda-canon-factories.html
Thailand ’s economy probably
contracted in the fourth quarter, as the worst floods in almost
70 years forced companies from Honda Motor Co. to Canon Inc. to
shut plants and evacuate workers.  Gross domestic product shrank 4.3 percent in the three
months through December from a year earlier, according to the
median of 11 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. That compares
with a 3.5 percent expansion in the previous quarter and would
be the first decline since 2009. The report is due Feb. 20 at
9:30 a.m. in Bangkok.  The floods that killed more than 700 people and inundated
two-thirds of the country dented exports already hurt by
weakening demand in  Europe , and became an added drag on  Japan ’s
economy as supply chains were disrupted. Prime Minister Yingluck
Shinawatra has pledged to spend 350 billion baht ($11 billion)
on infrastructure and the  Bank of Thailand  cut the  benchmark
interest rate  for a second straight meeting in January.  “The worst has passed, but the economic recovery may not
be that fast because it will take time for the  government
spending  to kick in,” said Santitarn Sathirathai, a Singapore-
based economist at Credit Suisse Group AG. The central bank has
“room to maneuver” on rates, and may pause for a while to see
how the economy performs, he said.  The baht has gained more than 2 percent against the dollar
this year, and the benchmark SET Index of stocks has risen more
than 9 percent.  ‘Downside Risks’  Policy makers from  Indonesia  to the  Philippines  have also
eased borrowing costs as the protracted European debt crisis
hurts demand for their countries’ exports, damping growth.  Taiwan’s economy expanded 1.9 percent from a year earlier
last quarter, the slowest pace in more than two years, according
to preliminary data released on Jan. 31. A final report is due
on Feb. 22. Malaysia’s growth slowed last quarter, and the
central bank said this week a more challenging external
environment could present “greater downside risks.”  Singapore’s economy contracted last quarter, and near-term
indicators aren’t pointing at an “imminent rebound,” the
Ministry of Trade and Industry said yesterday.  Thailand’s monetary authority earlier this month lowered
its 2011 GDP growth estimate to 1 percent, and said risks posed
by the worsening global outlook and the impact of last year’s
floods were greater than the threat of inflation. It has
forecast the nation’s economy will expand 4.9 percent this year.  The Bank of Thailand will start distributing low-interest
loans in early March to individuals and small- and medium-sized
companies affected by flooding, Assistant Governor Pongpen
Ruengvirayudh said yesterday. The central bank earlier said it
planned to disburse 300 billion baht of so-called soft loans.  Toshiba, Fujitsu  Thailand’s  manufacturing index  fell for the fourth
consecutive month and  exports  dropped for the second month in
December after floods disrupted production, prompting
manufacturers including Honda, Toshiba Corp. and Fujitsu Ltd. to
cut their profit forecasts last month. Zurich Financial Services
AG said this week its fourth-quarter profit fell 46 percent
after losses from the floods and other natural disasters.  Exports are forecast to increase by between 1 percent and 5
percent in the first quarter, and the Ministry of Commerce has
targeted a 15 percent increase in overseas shipments this year.  Inflation slowed for the second consecutive month in
January, and  consumer confidence  rose for the second straight
month. Still, political uncertainty and rising energy costs are
undermining sentiment, and economic recovery remained fragile,
the University of the Thai Chamber of Commerce said last week.  “Looking into the first half of 2012, risks to growth are
still skewed to the downside, given the global risk environment
and the delayed post-flood recovery in manufacturing
production,” said  Usara Wilaipich , a Bangkok-based economist at
Standard Chartered Plc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Munoz in  Hong Kong  at 
 mjmunoz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  