-- Air Marshals’ Cost, Effectiveness Questioned by U.S. House
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-02-16T20:40:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/air-marshals-cost-effectiveness-questioned-by-u-s-house.html
U.S. air marshals, who have
clandestinely taken thousands of flights to protect passengers
since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, may no longer be worth
their approximately $1 billion annual cost, a House panel said.  “The reality is the terrorists have adapted to our
security measures and changed their tactics,” Representative
Mike Rogers, an Alabama Republican and chairman of the
Transportation Security Subcommittee, said today at a hearing.  There were 33 U.S. air marshals when terrorists hijacked
jetliners and flew them into  New York ’s World Trade Center and
the Pentagon in Washington. Within months, the U.S. moved the
marshals from the  Federal Aviation Administration  to the newly
created  Transportation Security Administration .  The government quickly hired thousands more marshals, many
of them retired Secret Service and law-enforcement officers.  The Department of Homeland Security’s inspector general
said in a  report released last week  that some employees at the
Federal Air Marshals Service feel they’ve been subject to
discrimination and favoritism.  The report pointed to allegations, reported by  CNN  in 2010,
that supervisors in the service’s Orlando, Florida, field office
created a simulated board game modeled on the “Jeopardy!”
television show with categories containing derogatory nicknames
for veterans, women, minorities and gays.  Tension, Mistrust  “There is a great deal of tension, mistrust, and dislike
between non-supervisory and supervisory personnel in field
offices around the country,” the report said, while concluding
there isn’t widespread discrimination or retaliation at the
service.  About one-fourth of air marshals said they had been
discriminated against and 55 percent believed favoritism is
tolerated. Many supervisors disagreed with those perceptions,
Charles Edwards, the department’s acting inspector general, said
in testimony.  The dissatisfaction among some employees poses “a
difficult challenge” for the agency, though it doesn’t “appear
to have compromised the service’s mission,” the report said.  While air marshals “police our skies and protect our
passengers, we must wonder what happens when they leave the
airport and return to the office,” said Representative Sheila Jackson Lee, a Texas Democrat. “This is not the organization we
envisioned 10 years ago.”  The TSA is making management changes at the service, the
agency’s assistant administrator, Robert Bray, said.  The marshal service “suffered from a lack of management
cohesion, negative workforce perceptions and a lack of
compliance with headquarters direction,” Bray said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in  Washington  at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  