-- Airwaves Sales Sought by AT&T, Verizon Approved by Congress
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-02-17T17:40:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/airwaves-sales-sought-by-at-t-verizon-advance-in-u-s-congress.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Verizon Wireless  moved
a step closer to obtaining additional airwaves needed to meet
surging consumer demand for smartphones as U.S. lawmakers passed
a measure that authorizes sales of wireless spectrum.  The airwaves auctions are part of a broad accord reached
yesterday by House and Senate members to sustain a payroll tax
cut. The sales would raise at least $15 billion for the  U.S.
Treasury , Representative Greg Walden, an Oregon Republican, said
in an interview. Both houses of Congress approved the
legislation today, sending it to President Barack Obama for his
expected signature.  “By freeing up airwaves to be used to build the next
generation wireless networks, this package will support massive
 job creation  and untold technological breakthroughs,”
Representative  Fred Upton , a Michigan Republican who heads the
Energy and Commerce Committee, said in an e-mailed statement.  The auctions proposed by the Obama administration would
sell rights to airwaves voluntarily surrendered by television
stations. TV companies would keep a portion of the proceeds.
Participating broadcasters could leave the business or transmit
using other airwaves. Wireless companies would use the airwaves
to support mobile phones, tablets and other devices.  ‘Save Lives’  The package also would allocate $7 billion and airwaves for
a nationwide network for emergency workers, said an e-mailed
release from Senator  Jay Rockefeller , the West Virginia Democrat
who chairs the Commerce Committee. More spectrum for emergency
workers was a recommendation of the 9/11 Commission that
investigated the 2001 attacks in  New York  and Washington, when
police and firefighters had trouble communicating by radio.  “This agreement will allow us to build a nationwide,
interoperable communications network that is as reliable as the
first responders that protect us,” Rockefeller said in an e-
mailed statement. “It will quite literally save lives.”  Spending on the new network may benefit antenna-building
companies  American Tower Corp. (AMT) , Crown Castle International Corp.
and SBA Communications Corp.,  Paul Gallant , a Washington-based
analyst with Guggenheim Partners, said in a Feb. 15 note.  Airwaves sales may spur investment and job creation, the
High Tech Spectrum Coalition, a group with members including
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) , Alcatel-Lucent,  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and Cisco Systems Inc.,
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  “Congress has made a great decision that will result in
significant investment in mobility and will have a meaningful
impact on the creation of jobs with private investment,” Rhod
Shaw, executive director of the High Tech Spectrum Coalition,
said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Artistic Freedom’  Broadcasters have said they’re concerned TV station owners
may face added costs and lose audience if forced to switch
airwaves. The legislative measure provides $1.75 billion to
compensate for the costs of relocating.  “Tens of millions of Americans rely every day on local TV
broadcasters for news, entertainment, sports and life-saving
weather warnings,” Gordon Smith, president of the Washington-
based National Association of Broadcasters, said in a statement.  “We look forward to working with Congress and the FCC to
implement an incentive auction program that does not jeopardize
that service,” said Smith, whose group’s members include  CBS
Corp. (CBS) , Comcast Corp.’s NBC, the  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC and News
Corp.’s Fox.  ‘Public Rulemaking’  Language in the package may make it harder for the Federal
Communications Commission to limit participation in the auctions
by Verizon, the largest U.S. wireless company, and No. 2 AT&T,
Jeffrey Silva, a Washington-based analyst for Medley Global
Advisors LLC, said in an interview.  “They wouldn’t have the artistic freedom they’ve had
before,” Silva said. “When this started the FCC had carte
blanche.”  Under the proposal, the FCC can’t exclude wireless carriers
as part of an auction proceeding,  Jim Cicconi , AT&T’s senior
executive vice president-external affairs, said in an e-mailed
statement.  “It could only make such a decision through a separate
public rulemaking,” Cicconi said. “This provides procedural
safeguards, and also an opportunity for a court challenge.”  Cicconi on Jan. 13 said he was “troubled” that FCC
Chairman  Julius Genachowski  wanted his agency to keep its power
to set terms for the auctions.  Biggest Winners  Genachowski said yesterday the agency has sought to develop
“fair, effective mechanisms for providing all carriers an
opportunity to obtain spectrum.”  “Congress has recognized the vital importance of freeing
up more spectrum for mobile broadband, both licensed and
unlicensed, although the legislation could limit the FCC’s
ability to maximize the amount and benefits of recovered
spectrum,” Genachowski said in an e-mailed statement.  AT&T and Verizon were the biggest winners in the FCC’s 2008
auction of airwaves suitable for smartphone use, spending a
combined $16 billion. In 2010, the companies objected after the
agency restricted their ability to lease airwaves from a company
that is now Philip Falcone’s proposed LightSquared Inc. wireless
service.  AT&T in December abandoned a $39 billion merger with T-
Mobile USA Inc. after resistance from the FCC and Justice
Department, which said the combination would lessen competition.
In January AT&T Chief Executive Officer  Randall Stephenson  in an
earnings call said availability of spectrum is the “No. 1 issue
for us.”  ‘Job Creation’  AT&T and Verizon combined had 60.3 percent of wireless
subscribers in 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Verizon Wireless is owned by  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and
Newbury, England-based Vodafone Group Plc.  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the third-largest U.S. mobile carrier,
said in an e-mailed statement that the legislative proposal
“preserves the FCC’s ability to promote competition as it
conducts future wireless spectrum auctions.”  “Sprint agrees with the Federal Communications Commission
that all wireless carriers -- small, regional and large --should
have a meaningful chance to participate in wireless spectrum
auctions,” Vonya McCann, Sprint’s senior vice president for
government affairs, said in the statement.  The auctions will help “meet Americans’ voracious appetite
for mobile Internet,”  Steve Largent , president of CTIA-The
Wireless Association, a trade group, said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  “Mobile data usage is expected to grow by a factor of 16
over the next five years,” Largent said. “The spectrum made
available by this legislation is key to meeting that demand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in  Washington  at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  