-- Taiwan Dollar Falls as Europe Delays Decision on Greek Bailout
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2012-02-16T08:48:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/taiwan-dollar-falls-as-europe-delays-decision-on-greek-bailout.html
Taiwan ’s dollar fell to the lowest
level in more than a week and  government bonds  rose as European
leaders delayed a decision whether to approve additional aid for
Greece, damping demand for emerging-market assets.  The local dollar dropped along with other Asian currencies
after euro-area finance ministers postponed yesterday’s
scheduled meeting on Greece to Feb. 20. Taiwan’s exports fell
16.8 percent in January from a year earlier in the first drop
since October 2009, data showed last week, signaling  Europe ’s
debt crisis is starting to have an impact on regional economies.
International investors sold $44 million more Taiwanese stocks
than they bought today, according to exchange data.  “The lack of progress in Europe is quite frustrating, and
that’s affecting the  Taiwan dollar  and other regional
currencies,” said  Frances Cheung , a strategist at Credit
Agricole CIB in Hong Kong. “Taiwan’s dollar should remain
relatively stable compared with its peers, partly due to the
central bank’s policy stance.”  The Taiwan dollar weakened 0.3 percent to NT$29.635 against
its U.S. counterpart, according to Taipei Forex Inc. That’s the
weakest level since Feb. 7.  European officials are debating the details of a 130
billion euro ($170 billion) rescue package for Greece as a March
20 deadline for repaying 14.5 billion euros in debt looms,
opening the prospect of a possible default.  The yield on the government’s 1.25 percent bonds due March
2022 fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 1.261
percent, prices from Gretai Securities Market show.  The  overnight money-market rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, was unchanged at 0.399 percent, according
to a weighted average compiled by the Taiwan Interbank Money
Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  