-- Akzo Revamp Costs Rise in Push for $260 Million Profit Gain
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2012-02-16T14:20:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/akzo-revamp-costs-to-rise-amid-push-for-260-million-profit-gain.html
Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA)  forecast higher
expenses tied to an overhaul this year as the world’s biggest
paintmaker pushes to boost 2012 profit by 200 million euros
($260 million) and eliminate losses at a U.S. operation.  The maker of Glidden and Dulux paint plans to further
restructure decorative paint operations, it said in a statement
today. Decorative-paints head Tex Gunning pledged to eliminate
losses at U.S. operations this year.  U.S. decorative paint is “is gradually becoming a lean and
mean organization,” Chief Executive Officer Hans Wijers said on
a conference call. “We are confident we can turn around the
business in the U.S.”  Wijers, who will hand over the chief executive’s post to
 Sulzer AG (SUN) ’s Ton Buechner in April, started a broad revamp of
businesses spanning coatings, paint and specialty chemicals to
cut annual costs by 450 million euros. Akzo, which has cut about
800 jobs, forecast that most of the rising raw-material costs
will be passed on to customers through higher prices.  Akzo shares rose as much as 5.8 percent to 43.76 euros in
Amsterdam trading, against a backdrop of declining equity
markets as the region’s leaders delayed a Greek bailout. The
shares traded at 43.34 euros at 1:13 p.m. The company raised its
total dividend by about 5 cents a share to 1.45 euros.  Fourth-quarter earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization before one-time items declined 20
percent to 301 million euros.  Waiting for  Wal-Mart (WMT)   Quarterly sales increased 5 percent to 3.79 billion euros.
Wijers said the planned cutbacks and consolidation of some
Canadian and U.S. decorative paint facilities will save on
overheads without curbing growth. Akzo is seeking to turn a
profit from a contract to supply decorative paints to 3,500 Wal-
Mart Stores Inc. after incurring initial expenses, Wijers said.
So far, sales are lagging behind initial targets, Chief
Financial Officer Keith Nichols said.  “We knew it would require upfront investment that would
not immediately add to the bottom line,” said Wijers.  The company has set a target to boost earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization by 500 million
euros for 2014 as Akzo Nobel is trying to improve manufacturing
technologies as well as adding plants in India and  Brazil . The
company’s medium-term goal is to boost revenues to 20 billion
euros, with profit margins of 13 to 15 percent.  Wijers said the company sees a stabilization of most raw
material prices except for titanium dioxide, or TiO2, one of the
key ingredients for paint.  DuPont Coatings  Growth will mostly come from internal projects as the
company isn’t “desperate” to be involved in any acquisitions
at the moment, Wijers said. DuPont Co. is currently considering
the strategic options for its automotive coatings business.  During his tenure Wijers sold a drug unit and orchestrated
the $16.5 billion purchase of Imperial Chemical Industries.
Buying the maker of Dulux paint helped propel Akzo to the No. 1
spot in the paint and coatings market.  “I would be disappointed if in the years to come the
company would not implement certain changes,” Wijers said,
adding the current strategy has an underlying logic, as the
company aims to deliver higher profits and generate more cash.
“We know how to get there, we just have to do it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  