-- Al-Qaeda Bid for Role in Syrian Conflict Cited by Panetta as U.S. Concern
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   J o h n   W a l c o t t
-- 2012-02-17T16:03:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/al-qaeda-s-bid-for-role-in-syria-poses-concern-panetta-says.html
U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta 
expressed concern that al-Qaeda has voiced support for the
opposition in  Syria , a sign the group may be seeking a role in
the conflict there.  “It does raise concerns for us that al-Qaeda is trying to
assert a presence there,” Panetta said yesterday in response to
a question during a briefing at the Pentagon. “The situation
there has become that much more serious as a result of that.”  While Panetta said it’s too early to assess whether al-
Qaeda is intertwined with the Syrian opposition, and if so how
deeply, another U.S. official said the militant Sunni group is
sending men, money and weapons to the opponents of Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad.  The official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity
because intelligence on the matter is classified, said yesterday
there is some evidence that the group’s Iraqi affiliate was
responsible for recent bombings in Damascus, the Syrian capital,
and Aleppo, the nation’s largest city.  Director of National Intelligence  James Clapper , testifying
yesterday to the Senate Armed Services Committee, referred to
two bombings in each city that “had all the earmarks of an al-
Qaeda-like attack.”  “So we believe that al-Qaeda in Iraq is extending its
reach into Syria,” Clapper said.  ‘Lions of Syria’  Sunni militants of al-Qaeda’s “ilk” also appear to have
infiltrated the opposition in Syria, he said. “The opposition
groups in many cases may not be aware that they’re there,” he
said.  Al-Qaeda’s leader, Egyptian  Ayman al-Zawahiri , who is
believed by the U.S. and other governments to be in hiding in
 Pakistan , issued an eight-minute video on Feb. 12 called,
“Onward, Lions of Syria.” In it, he called on Muslims in
surrounding countries, including  Iraq , to aid the Syrian rebels.  In doing so, al-Qaeda in Iraq is turning on the Assad
family of Syria that helped provide the group with arms and
money after the U.S. invasion of Iraq in 2003.  Still, U.S. intelligence hasn’t seen “a clarion call”
from al-Qaeda for outsiders to enter Syria and join the fight,
said Army Lieutenant General Ronald Burgess, director of the
Defense Intelligence Agency, who testified alongside Clapper
yesterday.  Arab Spring Spectator  While al-Qaeda’s affiliates in Iraq, Yemen and North Africa
have grown increasingly independent of its diminished core
leadership in Pakistan, all of them share the late leader Osama bin-Laden’s goal of toppling secular Arab rulers such as Assad
and Iraq’s  Saddam Hussein  with the goal of opening the way for
an Islamic caliphate across the Middle East and North Africa.  Al-Qaeda was a spectator to the Arab Spring rebellions in
Tunisia, Egypt and Libya as well as the largely Shiite uprising
in Bahrain and the Shiite unrest in  Kuwait  and  Saudi Arabia ’s
Eastern Province. The group’s numbers and power were declining
even in Iraq’s largely Sunni Anbar province, the official said
in an interview. It now sees an opportunity to reassert itself
in Syria, the official said.  The fragmented nature of the armed Syrian opposition, the
growing antipathy of fighters in the streets to exile leaders,
and the reluctance or inability of Western nations or the  United
Nations  to halt the attacks by the Assad regime have offered al-
Qaeda’s Iraq affiliate an opening, he said.  Anti-Aircraft Missiles  The appearance of Iraqis affiliated with al-Qaeda has
raised concern that terrorists may get their hands on some of
the Assad regime’s stockpiles of shoulder-fired anti-aircraft
missiles, other arms and ammunition and even chemical weapons,
the official said. So far, there is no evidence that has
happened.  Syria possesses “tens of thousands” of shoulder-fired
missiles, Thomas Countryman, assistant secretary of state for
international security and nonproliferation, told defense
writers in  Washington  on Feb. 15.  “We do wish simply to have the neighbors of Syria do some
of the same prudential planning that the neighbors of  Libya  are
doing” to prevent such weapons finding their way across the
border, Countryman said.  Hezbollah in Lebanon  Stopping the flow of arms out of Syria may be even more
important than in Libya’s case because of the potential they
could fall into the hands of the Shiite Islamic Hezbollah
movement in neighboring Lebanon, according to Matt Schroeder, a
small-arms expert with the Federation of American Scientists in
Washington.  An al-Qaeda presence in Syria also would create the
potential for a battle between the militant Sunni group and
Hezbollah, which is considered a terrorist organization by the
U.S.,  Israel  and others, and which receives much of its support
through  Iran  via Assad’s Syria.  A Feb. 2 report on “Lebanon and the Uprising in Syria” by
Rebecca A. Hopkins, a  Middle East  analyst at the  Congressional
Research Service , lists “opportunities for suspected al-Qaeda
supporters” as a primary concern about the Syrian unrest.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  