-- Alibaba Said to Agree on Terms for $3 Billion Loan This Week
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2012-02-16T08:06:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/alibaba-said-to-agree-with-banks-on-yahoo-loan-terms-this-week.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. (ALIBABZ)  plans to
sign loan documents for a $3 billion facility with six banks as
early as this week, according to a person familiar with the
matter.  Meetings to discuss the financing’s final terms were held
in Hong Kong yesterday and will possibly continue into the
weekend, the person said, asking not to be identified as details
are private.  Australia  and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.,
Credit Suisse Group AG, DBS Bank Ltd., Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC
Holdings Plc, and Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. are arranging the
loan, the person familiar with the matter said today. The
facility, which will be comprised of various tranches, may be
marketed to other lenders in general syndication, the person
said, declining to elaborate.  Alibaba Group,  China ’s biggest e-commerce company, owns
more than 70 percent of Alibaba.com, which has been suspended
from trading in Hong Kong since Feb. 9 as the company prepares a
statement about a transaction involving its parent. Yahoo is the
biggest shareholder in closely held Alibaba Group with a stake
of about 40 percent.  Alibaba Group is borrowing the funds for a potential deal
involving  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , its biggest shareholder, the person said.
Proceeds from the $3 billion loan could be used by Alibaba Group
to help take the listed e-commerce site private and place it,
along with other assets, in a newly created company, according
to Kelvin Ho, an equity analyst at Yuanta Securities Co.  “That vehicle could then be exchanged in return for some
of Yahoo’s stake in Alibaba Group,” he said by phone from  Hong
Kong  today.  John Spelich, a Hong Kong-based spokesman for Alibaba Group,
declined to comment on the $3 billion loan or any potential
privatization of Alibaba.com when called at his office today.  No Clarity  Alibaba Group could offer to buy back shares in Alibaba.com
at a price similar to the company’s value when it listed in 2007,
Ho said. Alibaba sold shares in November of that year at
HK$13.50 apiece. Its stock last traded at HK$9.25.  “Taking Alibaba.com private at HK$13.50 would be a good
deal for shareholders and give the parent an asset to swap,”
said Ho, who has a ‘hold’ rating on Alibaba.com shares. “But at
the moment there isn’t any clarity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  