-- Amazon Shares Fall After Downgrade
-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 2012-02-16T22:25:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/amazon-declines-after-morgan-stanley-cuts-recommendation-to-equalweight-.html
     Feb. 16 (Bloomberg) -- Amazon.com Inc., the world’s largest
Web retailer, fell after Morgan Stanley downgraded the stock,
citing competition from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and the decline of
traditional media such as CDs and video games.  “Apple’s strength in iPhone and iPad sales are negatively
affecting Amazon.com by accelerating the company’s transition
from physical to digital media sales,”  Scott Devitt , a Morgan
Stanley analyst in New York, said today in a report. While
Amazon is offering more digital goods, the move is threatening
sales of physical music, movies and games, potentially crimping
profit margins and return on invested capital, he said.  Amazon is seeking to extend its leadership in sales of
traditional media, including CDs and DVDs, into the digital
world. Though the company’s Kindle e-readers have given it an
edge in electronic books, Apple’s success in mobile devices have
made the online-media market more competitive, Devitt said.  “Amazon.com is currently the market share leader in books
but otherwise faces an uphill battle,” said Devitt, who cut
Amazon’s rating to “equalweight” from “overweight.”  The shares  fell 2.5 percent to $179.93 at the close in  New
York , their third straight day of declines. They’ve gained 4
percent this year.  Third-Party Sales  Amazon also is relying more on third-party sellers for its
revenue. They use  the company’s site  to hawk their products and
pay a commission to Amazon. While that trend is positive in the
long run, physical third-party goods aren’t growing as fast as
some investors believe, Devitt said. The shift also generates
less per-unit revenue than Amazon gets selling an item itself.  The company is pushing into streaming video, putting it in
closer competition with Netflix Inc. and  Google Inc. (GOOG) , in
addition to Apple. Amazon added a streaming service to its
seven-year-old Prime product in February 2011, allowing
customers to watch TV shows and movies over the Internet. The
company has struck deals with Viacom Inc. and  News Corp . to add
more video content to the product.  “Amazon.com has competitive strengths that could aid in
its war for video market share, namely its video streaming
delivery infrastructure and its large, engaged customer base,”
Devitt said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  