-- Amazon Passes Samsung for No. 2 Spot in Tablets Behind Apple
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-02-16T22:18:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/amazon-surpassed-samsung-in-tablet-market-last-quarter-ihs-says.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the world’s largest
online retailer, surpassed  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  as the No. 2
seller of tablet computers last quarter, shipping 3.89 million
units, according to research firm  IHS Inc. (IHS)   Amazon’s share rose to 14 percent in the period, up from
zero in the third quarter, while Samsung slipped to 8 percent
from 11 percent, according to Englewood, Colorado-based IHS.
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) , meanwhile, maintained its lead in the market,
accounting for more than half of shipments.  Amazon rolled out its Kindle Fire tablet in November,
aiming to undercut Apple’s iPad by selling a tablet at less than
half the price. While the Fire may have taken some market share
from the iPad, Apple faced even more competition from its own
mobile device, the iPhone, said Rhoda Alexander, who manages
tablet research for IHS.  “Shipments of the iPad line fell short of IHS estimates in
the fourth quarter as many loyal Apple customers devoted their
dollars to shiny new alternatives,” she said in the report.
“The primary alternative wasn’t the Kindle Fire -- which
debuted to solid sales in the fourth quarter -- but Apple’s own
iPhone 4S smartphone.”  Apple shipped 15.4 million iPads to capture 57 percent of
the market. The company had a 62 percent share for the year,
compared with 87 percent in 2010, when there was little
competition. Samsung shipped 2.14 million tablets in the fourth
quarter. The whole market rose 55 percent to 27.1 million,
according to IHS.  Amazon’s shipment figures fell in line with estimates from
 Ross Sandler , an analyst at RBC Capital Markets who predicted 3
million to 4 million units in the fourth quarter. Other analysts
expected more, with Jordan Rohan at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.
projecting as many as 6 million and Anthony DiClemente at
 Barclays Capital  looking for 5.5 million.  Shares of Amazon, based in Seattle, fell 2.5 percent to
$179.93 at the close in New York.  The stock  has gained 3.9
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  