-- Iceland Foods Owners to Help Fund CEO Walker’s Bid for Frozen Food Chain
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-02-16T13:13:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/landsbanki-said-to-help-fund-walker-s-bid-for-u-k-iceland-chain.html
Iceland Foods Ltd.’s majority owners
Landsbanki Islands hf and Glitnir hf will provide 250 million
pounds ($392 million) to help Chief Executive Officer  Malcolm Walker  fund a buyout, two people familiar with the matter said.  The Icelandic banks will back an offer from Walker for the
company he founded in 1970, according to the people, who
declined to be named because the matter is private. They gained
the stake in 2009 after the collapse of Baugur Group hf.  Walker’s offer of 1.55 billion pounds has to be completed
within 42 days in order to secure funding from outside
investors, according to one of the people. Landmark Group Ltd.,
a Dubai-based retailer, Graham Kirkham, the founder of Britain’s
DFS Furniture chain, and  Brait SE (BAT) ,  South Africa ’s largest
private-equity firm, are also helping to finance the bid, said
the other person, confirming a report on  Sky News .  Walker, who owns a 23 percent stake in the U.K. budget
grocery chain, plans to maintain the retailer’s strategy of
adding new frozen ranges and maintaining low prices to win
shoppers, the people said. Walker’s team, led by Rothschild, are
in exclusive talks with Landsbanki and Glitnir, according to a
statement today, and are focused on completing due-diligence
checks and financing ahead of completion, the people said.  “Landsbanki believes that this approach delivers the most
certainty around sale completion whilst achieving the objective
of maximizing the proceeds from the sale of the shares,” the
Icelandic lender said today in a statement.  Competing Offers  Landsbanki and Glitnir are selling their combined 77
percent stake in the Deeside, Wales-based supermarket chain,
which has more than 700 stores.  Bain Capital LLC and BC Partners Ltd. had also submitted
offers for Iceland, according to one of the people. Walker had
the right to match the highest bid. Vendor finance was also
available to other potential buyers, one of the people said.  Walker said in today’s statement that he has “every hope”
of successfully concluding negotiations in “the coming weeks.”  Iceland increased sales by 5.9 percent to 2.4 billion
pounds in the financial year ended March 25, while pretax profit
rose 15 percent to 155.5 million pounds.  The retailer had its strongest performance in 10 years in
the 12 weeks through Jan. 22, increasing its share of the U.K.
grocery market to 2.1 percent from 1.9 percent, researcher
 Kantar Worldpanel  said last month.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch and UBS AG are managing the
sale of Iceland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  