-- Applied Materials Rises on Higher Forecast: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-02-17T14:51:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/applied-materials-second-quarter-profit-forecast-tops-analsyts-estimates.html
Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT) , the largest
producer of chipmaking equipment, reached the highest in more
than eight months after predicting higher profit than estimated,
signaling that semiconductor makers are pulling out of a
spending slump.  Applied Materials gained 3.6 percent to $13.69 at 9:36 a.m.
after yesterday forecasting higher profit, excluding certain
costs, for the second quarter. Earlier the stock touched $13.94,
the highest intraday price since May 20. The company was the
fourth-best  performer  in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Customers are stepping up equipment spending to ensure they
can meet demand for chips used in smartphones, tablets and other
mobile devices. Samsung Electronics Co. and Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Co. are helping fuel the rebound, according to
Patrick Ho, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  “TSMC and even Samsung are boosting orders,” Ho said. The
Dallas-based analyst recommends buying Applied stock, which he
owns himself. “They should benefit from that,” Ho said.  Excluding certain costs, second-quarter profit will be 20
cents to 28 cents a share,  Santa Clara , California-based Applied
said yesterday in a statement. Analysts had estimated 16 cents
on average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales in the current period will rise between 5 percent and
15 percent from the previous three months, the company
predicted, indicating revenue of $2.3 billion to $2.52 billion.
That compares with an average analyst estimate of $2.09 billion.  Mobility Growth  “The first half is driven by mobility,” Chief Executive
Officer Mike Splinter said in an interview yesterday. “We’ve
also gotten more positive on the economy. The U.S. is doing
better, and  Asia  is doing better.”  Improving demand for chip machinery is helping make up for
a slowdown in orders for equipment that produces flat-panel
displays and solar panels. Applied expanded into that market in
recent years, seeking to offset the swings in demand in its main
business. Those newer areas won’t recover until closer to end of
the year, Splinter said.  While sales of chip equipment jumped 26 percent last
quarter from the preceding three months, display machinery
dropped 39 percent and solar-related revenue fell 34 percent.
Orders, an indicator of future revenue, rose 53 percent for the
semiconductor group. Solar orders dropped 62 percent.  Investors and analysts track semiconductor-equipment orders
as a harbinger of demand for electronics. Chipmakers such as
 Intel Corp. (INTC)  and Samsung vary spending on new equipment and
plants based on their predictions for demand as much as two
years in advance. Their factories can cost more than $3 billion
to build and run 24 hours a day, which makes the companies
careful with equipment purchases.  Applied’s first-quarter net income decreased to $117
million, or 9 cents a share, from $506 million, or 38 cents, a
year earlier. Revenue fell 19 percent to $2.19 billion.
Excluding certain costs, profit was 18 cents a share in the
period, which ended Jan. 29. Analysts on average had estimated
profit of 12 cents and sales of $1.97 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  