-- Apple, Android Apps Must Provide More Child Data, FTC Says
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-02-16T23:05:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/apple-android-apps-must-provide-more-child-data-ftc-says-1-.html
Makers and sellers of mobile
applications through  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s Apple Store and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android Market must improve disclosures to parents about
personal information collected about their children, the U.S.
Federal Trade Commission said.  The FTC issued the recommendations today in a report based
on a survey of mobile applications for children.  “Right now, it is almost impossible to figure out which
apps collect data and what they do with it,” FTC Chairman Jon Leibowitz said in a statement. Companies must “provide easily
accessible, basic information, so that parents can make informed
decisions about the apps their kids use,” he said.  As underage smartphone users increasingly download mobile
applications, their parents lack information about what kind of
data is being collected about their children and what it’s being
used for, the FTC said in the report.  A mobile application can capture a range of information
stored on the downloading device, including the user’s location,
phone number and contact lists, and can share this data with
third parties, the FTC said.  “We are reviewing the FTC’s report,” Google spokesman
Christopher Katsaros said in an e-mailed statement.  Mountain
View , California-based Google offers parental controls and best
practices for app developers to follow for the Android mobile
operating system, Katsaros said.  User Approval  “From the beginning, Android has had an industry-leading
permission system, which informs consumers what data an app can
access and requires user approval before installation,” he
said.  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Apple, didn’t return
messages seeking comment on the FTC report.  The FTC enforces the Children’s Online Privacy Protection
Rule, also known as COPPA. The rule requires operators of online
services, including interactive mobile apps, to provide notice
and get parental consent before collecting information from
children under 13.  In the next six months, FTC staff will conduct an
additional review to determine whether some mobile apps violate
COPPA, the FTC said.  ‘Wake-Up Call’  “While the mobile app marketplace keeps growing, mobile
privacy keeps shrinking,” said James Steyer, chief executive
officer of Common Sense Media, a San Francisco-based advocate
for Internet safety for families. “There are now more than 1
million mobile apps in the marketplace, but the FTC study shows
that virtually none provides tools or information that help
users manage their privacy and personal information.”  Jeff Chester , executive director of the Center for Digital
Democracy, who spearheaded the passage of COPPA by Congress in
1998, said the FTC report represents “a wake-up call.”
Congress should pass privacy legislation to protect all
consumers online, he said.  Senator  John Kerry , a Massachusetts Democrat, has
introduced “The Commercial Privacy Bill of Rights” with
Arizona Republican  John McCain . The proposed legislation seeks
to protect consumers’ online privacy, he said.  “It’s just plain common sense that, at the very minimum,
parents should have the right to know what kind of information
an app directed to their children collects, uses and shares
before downloading it,” Kerry said in a statement today.  Representative Edward J. Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat
who with Texas Republican  Joe Barton  introduced “Do Not Track
Kids Act” legislation to protect the online privacy of children
and teens, also welcomed the FTC’s report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  