-- Argentina Fourth-Quarter Capital Flight Falls to $3.3 Billion on Controls
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2012-02-16T22:52:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/argentina-fourth-quarter-capital-flight-falls-to-3-3-billion-on-controls.html
Argentine capital flight slowed from
a record pace in the fourth quarter after President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  tightened controls over the foreign
exchange market and forced companies to repatriate export
revenue.  Investors withdrew $3.3 billion from the economy in the
October-through-December period, down from $8.4 billion in the
previous quarter, the central bank said in a report today.
Argentines took $21.5 billion from the country in 2011, compared
with $11.4 billion in 2010.  With  Argentina  blocked from international credit markets
since a 2001 default on $95 billion of bonds, Fernandez depends
on a  trade surplus  to bring dollars into South America’s second-
biggest economy. After winning re-election in October, Fernandez
ordered energy and mining companies to repatriate future export
revenue, tightened oversight of foreign exchange purchases and
told insurance companies to bring investments back into the
country.  “The controls were very effective and there has been a
strong slowdown in outflows,” said  Jorge Todesca , a former
deputy economy minister, who now runs Finsoport Economia y
Finanzas research company in Buenos Aires.  Unable to buy greenbacks, Argentines tapped their dollar
deposits, which fell to $13.3 billion on Feb. 3 from $15.9
billion in October, according to central bank data. YPF SA, the
country’s biggest energy company, said Feb. 14 it was struggling
to import fuels as a result of the foreign exchange measures.  Restrictions, Measures  Fernandez introduced additional restrictions this year
to further stem capital flight and a narrowing trade surplus.
The government ordered importers to get permission from the
federal tax agency before bringing goods into the country.  Fiat
Spa (F) ’s local unit halted production for two days last month
because of a supply shortage.  Annual  inflation  that economists estimate at about 23
percent, the highest among major global economies after
 Venezuela , and uncertainty over Fernandez’s economic policies
fueled the surge in capital flight last year. Central bank
 reserves  shrank last year to $46.4 billion from $52.1 billion.
The government says prices rose 9.7 percent in January from a
year earlier.  The government’s measures have allowed the central bank to
buy dollars in the foreign exchange market and rebuild reserves
to $46.8 billion.  Fernandez, 58, needs to keep accumulating reserves to be
able to tap about $5.7 billion for debt payments this year, as
forecast in the government’s 2012 budget. The government used
$6.6 billion of reserves in 2010 and $7.5 billion in 2011 to
make debt payments.  The peso fell 7.6 percent last year, compared with a 11.1
percent drop by  Brazil ’s real and a 11 percent drop by the
 Mexican peso . The peso fell 0.1 percent today to 4.3538.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in  Buenos Aires  at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  