-- Harvard’s Liberal-Arts Failure Is Wall Street’s Gain: Ezra Klein
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2012-02-16T00:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/harvard-liberal-arts-failure-is-wall-street-gain-commentary-by-ezra-klein.html
In recent years, many top
universities have tried to guide their students into careers
other than finance.  In 2008, Drew Gilpin Faust, the president of  Harvard
University , went so far as to give a speech to graduating
seniors asking them to stand fast against Wall Street’s “all but
irresistible recruiting juggernaut.”  Tufts University  is paying
the student loans of graduates who go into public service.  The efforts seem to be failing. In December, the  New York 
Times’ Catherine Rampell  asked  Harvard, Yale and Princeton for
data on the professions their graduates were entering. As of
2011, finance remained the most popular career for Harvard
graduates, sucking up 17 percent of those who went from college
to a full-time job. At Yale, 14 percent of the 2010 graduating
class, and at Princeton, 35.9 percent, were headed into finance.  At Harvard and Yale, at least, the numbers have drifted
down in recent years. Harvard’s 2008 class sent 28 percent of
its gainfully employed graduates to  Wall Street , while Yale sent
26 percent. Whether the recent decline reflects an enduring
change or a recession-induced blip remains to be seen. I’m
betting blip, but perhaps I’m wrong.  Yet even the lower figures for graduates heading to Wall
Street are sort of weird. No high school senior gets her
acceptance letter from Harvard and begins thinking about the
exciting life she will lead constructing  credit derivatives . But
that’s where many students end up. Even after the financial
crisis. Even after the bailout of Wall Street. Even after the
dominant cultural metaphor for Goldman Sachs became a money-
sucking  vampire squid .  Two Explanations  Explanations for why so many Ivy League graduates rush into
finance -- along with law and consulting -- tend to fall into
two camps.  The economic determinists say this is no mystery. Finance,
law and consulting pay high salaries -- much higher than most
other options on the table. It would be strange, given the
financial incentives, if these graduates weren’t going into such
high-paying fields.  The social determinists say these students are simply
following their tribe. Finance, law and consulting employ smart,
high-status individuals in desirable urban locales. Because Ivy
League graduates are smart, high-status individuals who
generally want to work and live among people like themselves, it
makes sense that they take the road more traveled.  These two camps are not mutually exclusive. You can follow
the money while you follow your friends. But I’m young enough to
know a lot of these graduates, or at least a lot of their recent
predecessors. In conversations with them, I’ve come to favor
another explanation: Their educations are failing them.  In effect, Wall Street -- like a few other professions,
including law, management consulting and Teach for America -- is
taking advantage of the weakness of liberal arts education.  For many kids, college represents an end goal. Once you get
into a good college, you’ve made it, and everyone stops worrying
about you. You’re encouraged to take classes in subjects like
English literature and history and political science, all of
which are fine and interesting, but none of which leave you with
marketable skills. After a few years of study, you suddenly find
it’s late in your junior year, or early in your senior year, and
you have no skills pointing to the obvious next step.  What Wall Street figured out is that colleges are producing
a large number of very smart, completely confused graduates.
Kids who have ample mental horsepower, incredible work ethics
and no idea what to do next. So the finance industry takes
advantage of that confusion, attracting students who never
intended to work in finance but don’t have any better ideas
about where to go.  Familiar Applications  It begins by mimicking the application process Harvard
students have already grown comfortable with. “It’s doing a
process that you’ve done a billion times before,” explains Dylan
Matthews, a Harvard senior. “Everyone who goes to Harvard went
hard on the college application process. Applying to Wall Street
is much closer to that than applying anywhere else is. There are
a handful of firms you really care about, they all have formal
application processes that they walk you through, there’s a
season when it all happens, all of them come to you and
interview you where you live. Harvard students are really good
at formal processes like that, and they’re less good at going on
Monster or Craigslist and sorting through thousands of job
listings from thousands of companies whose reputations they
don’t know. Wall Street and consulting (and Teach for America,
too) turn applying to jobs into applying to college, more or
less.”  Yet that’s only half of it. A bigger draw, explained a
recent Harvard graduate who majored in social science and worked
at Goldman Sachs for two years, is how Wall Street sells itself
to potential applicants: As a low-risk, high-return opportunity
that they can try for a few years and, whether they like it or
hate it, use to acquire real skills to build careers.  In other words, Wall Street is promising to give graduates
the skills their university education didn’t. It’s providing a
practical graduate school that pays students handsomely to
attend. Sometimes, the enrollees end up liking their job in
finance, or liking the lifestyle that it affords them, so they
stick around. Sometimes, they don’t. Either way, Wall Street is
filling a need that our educational system should be filling.  So it seems universities have been looking at the problem
backward. The issue isn’t that so many of their well-educated
students want to go to Wall Street rather than make another sort
of contribution. It’s that so many of their students end up
feeling so poorly prepared that they go to Wall Street because
they’re not sure what other contribution they can make.  My hunch is that we have underemphasized the need to learn
skills, rather than simply learn, while in college. The fact
that  Teach for America  -- which pays almost nothing and can
place its hires far from cosmopolitan hot spots -- is one of the
few recruiting systems competitive with Wall Street suggests
that graduates are open to paths that aren’t remotely as
remunerative as finance and aren’t based in New York or  San
Francisco . They’re just not seeing all that many of them.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer on this story:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 