-- Biggest Australia Jobs Gain Since 2010 Augurs Interest Rate Pause: Economy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-02-16T02:58:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/australia-employers-add-46-300-jobs-beating-estimates-unemployment-falls.html
Australia added the most workers in
14 months in January and the jobless rate unexpectedly declined,
spurring investors to increase bets the central bank will extend
an interest-rate pause.  Payrolls rose by 46,300 last month, the most since November
2010, after a revised drop in December of 35,600, the statistics
bureau said in Sydney today. That compares with the median
estimate for an increase of 10,000 in a Bloomberg News survey of
25 economists. The  jobless rate  fell to 5.1 percent.  Stocks fell as traders boosted the odds  Reserve Bank  of
Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  will keep the benchmark
borrowing cost unchanged March 6 after he unexpectedly paused at
4.25 percent rather than cut last week as resource investment
drives growth. The central bank lowered the rate at back-to-back
meetings last quarter as  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis weakened
prospects for global growth.  “This strong report is likely to wipe out any remaining
expectations of an RBA rate cut next month,” said  Annette Beacher , head of Asia-Pacific research at TD Securities Inc. in
Singapore.  Investors priced in a 37 percent chance Stevens will lower
rates by a quarter percentage point to 4 percent at the next
meeting March 6, down from 60 percent before the report, a
Credit Suisse Group AG Index showed. The Australian dollar was
little changed at $1.0684 at 1:22 p.m. in Sydney from $1.0683
before the data were released. The S&P/ASX 200 Index fell 1.6
percent to 4,186.4.  Greek Delays  Asian stocks also fell today as a delay in a second bailout
for Greece revived concern Europe will struggle to contain its
debt crisis. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slipped 0.5 percent to
126.65 as of 10:05 a.m. in Tokyo.  The number of  full-time jobs  climbed 12,300 in January, and
part-time employment jumped 34,000, today’s report showed.
 Australia ’s participation rate, a measure of the working-age
population, gained to 65.3 percent in January from 65.2 percent
a month earlier, it showed.  Australia’s economy is being driven by a resource bonanza
as  China  and India, two countries that account for more than a
third of the world’s population, increase demand for minerals
and energy.  Today’s report showed 86 percent of new jobs last month
were created in Queensland and  Western Australia , two states
where concentrations of mining and energy projects are already
operating or gearing up. Those states each added 20,000 workers
in January and have led the nation with a combined 49,500 new
jobs in the past six months, the report showed.  Evans’s Rate Call  After the data,  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  Chief Economist  Bill Evans  said he expects the next RBA rate cut in May, from a
previous prediction of March.  Elsewhere in Asia, a report today showed Singapore’s
economy shrank less than initially estimated last quarter as a
surge in pharmaceutical production supported manufacturing at
year-end. Gross domestic product fell an annualized 2.5 percent
from the previous three months.  In China, non-financial outbound investment rose 59.9
percent in January from a year earlier to $4.376 billion, the
Ministry of Commerce said in Beijing today.  In the U.S., a report today may show that wholesale prices
rebounded in January after an unexpected decline in December,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists. Prices may have increased 0.4 percent from December
after slipping 0.1 percent in November.  American data on jobless claims and housing starts are also
due today, along with the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index and
the business outlook report from the Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia.  Italian Trade  Elsewhere around the world, Israel reports fourth-quarter
economic growth and Italy gives the December trade balance.  In Australia, a A$456 billion ($489 billion) pipeline of
resource projects is spurring companies such as  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) 
to increase hiring and helping cushion a slump in manufacturing
and services hit by a stronger local currency.  “The RBA is expecting double-digit increases in business
investment in each of the next couple of years,” Deputy
Governor  Philip Lowe  said in a speech today in Sydney before the
employment report. “It is not an exaggeration to say that this
is a once-in-a-century investment boom.”  More than 25,000 new workers will be needed to complete
mining, natural gas and transportation projects in Queensland by
late-2012, according to the industry-funded group Construction
Skills Queensland.  BG Group Plc (BG/) ,  Santos Ltd. (STO)  and  ConocoPhillips (COP)  are moving
ahead with more than $50 billion of liquefied natural gas
projects on the central Queensland coast. Arrow Energy Ltd.,
owned by  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  PetroChina Co. (857) , plans a
fourth LNG development on Queensland’s  Curtis Island .  Resource Bonanza  The resources boom has underpinned Australia’s currency.
The so-called Aussie has risen about 5 percent this year and
reached a six-month high of $1.0845 last week after the RBA
unexpectedly kept the nation’s benchmark borrowing cost
unchanged at its Feb. 7 meeting.  Stevens reduced the overnight cash rate target by a quarter
percentage point on Nov. 1 and again on Dec. 6 as inflation
pressures eased and risks to global growth increased.
Australia’s benchmark rate is the highest among major developed
economies, compared with near-zero rates in the U.S. and Japan,
the  European Central Bank ’s 1 percent and the U.K.’s 0.5 percent.  Australia’s “growth has been around trend and inflation is
consistent with the target, and there are reasonable prospects
for this to continue,” Lowe said today. “We also have much
more flexibility to deal with unfolding events than almost any
other developed economy.”  Carmakers Struggle  Still, the local dollar’s strength is hurting  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) ’s Australian division, the country’s largest car exporter,
which announced last month it would cut more than a 10th of the
employees at its assembly plant after a 21 percent decline in
2011 production. General Motors Co.’s local unit has also
announced job cuts.  Qantas Airways Ltd., Australia’s largest carrier, today
said it will cut about 500 jobs after posting an 83 percent drop
in first-half profit on higher fuel prices and costs from the
two-day grounding of its fleet.  Westpac and  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd ., the
nation’s second- and third-biggest lenders, will fire as many as
1,460, according to the Finance Sector Union.  “Looking ahead, these labor market reports are expected to
soften somewhat as official employment data start to capture the
announced job losses in the banking industry, manufacturing and
now airlines,” Beacher said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  