-- Australia Loans to Rise on $90 Billion of Energy Debt, CBA Says
-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 2012-02-16T05:08:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/australia-loans-to-rise-on-90-billion-of-energy-debt-cba-says.html
Project finance and infrastructure
debt will swell Australian syndicated-loan volumes as firms seek
more than $90 billion of funding for energy projects, according
to  Commonwealth Bank of Australia. (CBA)   Six coal-seam gas and liquefied-natural-gas projects in
three Australian states will require loans in the “short to
mid-term,” the Sydney-based  bank  wrote in a report published
today. Public-private partnerships will also seek to raise debt
in 2012 to build hospitals and prisons, according to the report.  “The large LNG project pipeline in the natural resources
sector in Queensland, Northern Territory and Western Australia
will likely require bank debt finance, translating into elevated
loan-market volumes,” according to the report. “Project
finance and infrastructure transactions will drive new money
deals in the loan market in 2012.”  The nation has eight LNG ventures under development, driven
by increasing Asian demand for less-polluting alternatives to
coal.  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Woodside Petroleum
Ltd.,  Santos Ltd. (STO) ,  ConocoPhillips (COP) ,  BG Group Plc (BG/)  and Inpex Corp.
are building projects to supply countries including China.  Australia must spend more than A$770 billion ($823 billion)
in the 10 years to 2018 on infrastructure to support its
economy, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP wrote in a report last year
that cited Citigroup Inc. data.  Public-private partnerships expected to seek funding in
2012 include the Sunshine Coast Hospital, the Bendigo Hospital
and Eastern Goldfields Prison, according to the Commonwealth
Bank report.  Loan Volumes  Loan volumes in Australia and New Zealand surged 57 percent
to $133.8 billion in 2011 from the previous year as firms sought
early refinancing amid Europe’s debt crisis and as borrowers
such as Wiggins Island Coal Export Terminal Pty arranged funding
for resource infrastructure projects, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Australia  is the world’s biggest shipper of iron ore and
coal. Its mineral and energy exports reached a record A$48.8
billion in the third quarter, according to the Bureau of
Resources and Energy Economics.  European banks have reduced lending in Australia due to the
sovereign-debt crisis, while rising bank funding costs are
spurring an increase in loan margins, Commonwealth Bank said.  With $180 billion of Australian loans maturing in the next
three years, institutional investors may take a more active role
in providing capital as the European banks retreat, according to
the report.  The margin paid by BBB rated borrowers on three-year loans
rose to 180 basis points more than the bank bill swap rate at
the end of 2011, from 160 basis points three months earlier,
Commonwealth Bank said in the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  