-- Aussie, Kiwi Hold Weekly Gains on Greece Bailout Optimism, Equities Rally
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-02-17T17:59:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/australia-new-zealand-dollars-poised-for-weekly-gains-on-greek-optimism.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
dollars had weekly gains as optimism  Greece  will receive its
second bailout early next week boosted demand for higher-
yielding assets.  The New Zealand dollar advanced after Reserve Bank Governor
Alan Bollard said the country’s economic performance may be
understated and  Germany  expressed confidence that euro-area
government will agree on a deal for Greece within days. The
Aussie touched a six-month high against the yen as global stocks
gained.  “There is still strong momentum behind” the Australian
dollar, said Janu Chan, an economist at St. George Bank Ltd. in
Sydney. “The developments in Greece are positive. I think in
terms of  Europe , it’s more likely that the news will be more
positive than negative that the deal goes through.”  Australia ’s dollar fell 0.4 percent to $1.0710 at 12:04
p.m. in New York. It’s set for a 0.3 percent gain this week. The
Aussie was little changed at 84.89 yen, after earlier touching
85.50, the highest since Aug. 2.  New Zealand’s dollar rose 0.1 percent to 83.39 U.S. cents,
headed for a 0.9 percent weekly gain. The so-called kiwi
advanced 0.5 percent to 66.08 yen.  The  European Central Bank  swapped its Greek bonds for new
securities, raising prospects that Greece will receive its next
round of aid at a meeting Feb. 20 between euro-zone finance
ministers, according to three euro-area officials.  Bollard’s View  New Zealand’s economic performance may be understated
compared to that of other nations because of the country’s
“conservative statistics interpretations,” the  Reserve Bank ’s
Bollard said in e-mailed notes for a speech to the Trans Tasman
Business Circle in Auckland today.  Gross domestic product may be as much as 10 percent higher
than official data relative to other nations, he said.  New Zealand’s Treasury Department yesterday lowered its
forecasts for economic growth in the year through March 31,
2013, to 2.8 percent from the 3.4 percent pace predicted in
October, citing a weaker global outlook and delays in rebuilding
the earthquake-damaged South Island city of Christchurch.  Traders are betting New Zealand’s central bank will raise
rates by 0.15 percentage point over the next 12 months,
according to a  Credit Suisse Group AG index  based on swaps. On
Feb. 6, bets went from a projected cut to an increase. The
 Reserve Bank of New Zealand  has kept the official cash rate at a
record-low 2.5 percent since March.  ‘Improvement Lane’  The MSCI Asia Pacific  Index (MXAP)  of stocks advanced 0.9 percent
and the MSCI World Index rose 0.5 percent. The  Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index (CRY)  of raw materials gained 0.3 percent
yesterday.  In the U.S., the New York-based Conference Board announced
today an index of leading indicators rose 0.4 percent in
January, missing the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The research group’s gauge of the outlook for
the next three-to-six months climbed a revised 0.5 percent in
December.  The U.S. Labor Department said consumer prices increased
0.2 percent, falling short of economists’ forecast of 0.3
percent, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  “In the U.S., the run of economic data has been more
upbeat,” said St. George’s Chan. “That generally continues to
paint the picture that the  U.S. economy  remains in the
improvement lane.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Austen Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  