-- Avaya Is Said to Plan $1 Billion IPO for as Soon as April
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-02-16T23:36:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/avaya-is-said-to-plan-its-1-billion-initial-public-offering-for-april.html
     Feb. 16 (Bloomberg) --  Avaya Holdings Corp. (AVYA) , the
communications-gear maker owned by private-equity firms Silver
Lake and TPG Capital, plans to hold its initial public offering
as soon as April, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The company, based in Basking Ridge,  New Jersey , filed in
June to raise $1 billion in an IPO. It put off the sale amid
stock-market swings that left some investors reluctant to buy
shares in newly minted companies, said the people, who asked not
to be identified. The timing could slip, the people said.  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the top manufacturer of networking
equipment and a competitor to Avaya, slumped 11 percent last
year, while rival  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR)  dropped 45 percent. The
weakness reflected concerns that customers would delay upgrades
amid economic turmoil. The outlook brightened in recent weeks
after quarterly results from Cisco exceeded profit and sales
estimates and analysts predicted that AT&T Inc., the largest
U.S. telephone company, would step up  capital spending .  Avaya Inc., which is owned by Avaya Holdings, reported on
Feb. 13 that its fourth quarter net loss narrowed to $26 million
from $180 million a year earlier while sales rose 1.5 percent to
$1.39 billion. The company cut costs in fiscal 2011 by
eliminating jobs and consolidating facilities.  Market Share  Synergy Research Group  said  in August that Avaya gained
share in the global market for voice equipment for corporate
customers. It ranks No. 2 in the market behind Cisco.  Telecommunications capital spending began increasing last
year for the first time since 2009, according to  Yankee Group .
The research firm said last May that global expenditures will
rise to $302.2 billion in 2014 from $275.7 billion in 2011.  Stacey Torman, a representative of Avaya, declined to
comment.  AT&T, based in  Dallas , is planning to make “reasonably
healthy” orders from networking companies this year, Jefferies
Group Inc. said in report yesterday.  Avaya was spun off from Lucent Technologies Inc. in 2000
and taken private in 2007 for $8.2 billion. Later, it acquired
an equipment business from Nortel Networks Corp. for $943
million.  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  are leading the IPO, Avaya said in its June 9  filing  with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The company didn’t
disclose how many shares it will sell or give a price range in
the filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  