-- When Merger Suits Enrich Only Lawyers
-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r ,   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   R o d n e y   Y a p
-- 2012-02-16T18:59:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/lawyers-cash-in-while-investor-clients-get-nothing-in-merger-lawsuit-deals.html
A shareholder lawyer told a Delaware
judge at a midsummer court hearing two years ago that his team
deserved $700,000 for work on a lawsuit in which his clients
received nothing.  Shareholders of BJ Services Co., an oilfield services
company now owned by  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI) , claimed its sale to the
former parent would undervalue their holdings. The settlement of
the case gave investors “crucial” data such as performance
projections for five more years,  Shane T. Rowley  of  Faruqi &
Faruqi LLP  told the judge, seeking to justify the legal fees.  “I can’t think of fruit that’s closer to the ground,”
Chancery Court Judge John W. Noble responded. Still, the judge
awarded Rowley and his colleagues $500,000 for their efforts.  Scenarios like the one played out at the July 2010 hearing
in Wilmington are common in the Delaware court, the chief U.S.
venue for mergers and acquisitions suits. Of 57 such investor
class actions settled or otherwise concluded there in 2010 and
2011, 40 -- or 70 percent -- made money for plaintiffs’ lawyers
but not clients, according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  “The greatest benefit is for the plaintiffs’ attorneys”
in such litigation, said John C. Coffee Jr., a Columbia
University professor who teaches  securities law .  None of the 10 cases that New York-based Faruqi & Faruqi
helped to settle during the two years produced cash for clients,
according to court records. Legal fees in those 10 cases totaled
$6 million, split among plaintiffs’ firms.  Millions in Fees  Overall, lawyers won $32.4 million for themselves in the 40
cases that generated no money for clients. The lowest legal fee
award was $150,000; the highest was $4 million. The median came
to $512,500, according to the data.  The 17 M&A lawsuits that resulted in cash for clients
produced $350 million for the shareholders. The largest, a  Del
Monte  Foods Inc. case, gave plaintiffs $89.4 million. Of that
amount, attorneys were paid $22.3 million.  Even without consistent monetary awards, such lawsuits let
shareholders scrutinize transactions and gain changes in terms,
according to defenders of M&A litigation. Deal-makers, knowing
their work will be closely evaluated by lawyers, produce fairer,
more transparent transactions as a result, he said.  The “policing” effects of litigation have “real value,”
 Bernard Black , a Northwestern University law and finance
professor who co-wrote an academic study of the  Delaware  courts,
said. That “might well justify the money we throw at
plaintiffs’ lawyers.”  No ‘Substantive Benefit’  Jim Woolery, co-head of North American mergers and
acquisitions for  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , disagreed.  “The overwhelming -- overwhelming -- majority of these
cases do not result in any substantive benefit for
shareholders,” Woolery, a former senior partner at the law firm
 Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP (1187L) , said in an interview.  The cases may even cost investors money, said  Jennifer
Johnson , a professor at Lewis & Clark Law School in  Portland ,
 Oregon , who has studied shareholder suits.  “If you can get $500,000 for increased disclosures and not
one nickel for shareholders, who’s paying that?” Johnson said.
“It’s coming out of shareholders’ pockets” because the
companies pay the lawyers’ bills.  Companies settle almost all cases without trials, according
to the data.  “If they want their deal to go through, they don’t have
time to win,” Johnson said.  Fastest Growing Suits  M&A class actions are the fastest-growing type of
securities litigation, according to  Cornerstone Research . Among
deals of $100 million or more announced in the past two years,
91 percent were challenged in court, the legal research firm
said in a report.  The filing of lawsuits is so predictable that companies
factor in legal bills as a sort of “transaction tax,” said
Woolery, who has advised on multibillion-dollar deals. Among
them was history’s largest leveraged buyout, the 2007 private-
equity purchase of electricity provider TXU Corp., now known as
Energy Future Holdings Corp., for $43.2 billion.  Minority stockholders who file M&A lawsuits often seek to
halt a transaction, damages or both. Typically they file claims
alleging they’ve been shortchanged, that management didn’t
strive for higher bids, or that the board rigged the deal to
keep out other possible buyers. A common claim is that a deal
undervalues a company on the verge of explosive growth.  Bad Track Record  “Corporate America doesn’t have a great track record for
policing itself,” said  Christine S. Azar , the Wilmington
managing partner for  Labaton Sucharow LLP . “If we weren’t there
for our clients, who knows what would happen?”  Her 65-lawyer New York-based firm helped settle four of the
cases examined in the study. Two of them produced compensation
for stockholders totaling $26 million.  M&A lawsuits let investor lawyers study internal documents
and question managers, Azar said. Settlements can alter deal
terms to encourage other bids, by easing “no-shop” clauses so
boards can seek other buyers, she added.  Rolling back measures to protect deals “provides the
opportunity for a topping bid, and this benefit exists whether
or not a competing bidder materializes,” wrote J. Travis Laster,
the newest judge in Delaware’s Chancery Court, in a legal-fee
opinion last year. Directors aren’t required to get the best
price, only to make a good-faith effort, he said.  Laster and Chief Chancery Court Judge Leo E. Strine Jr.
declined requests for interviews on M&A lawsuits in their court.  No-Shop Provisions  Of the 40 settlements examined that resulted in investors
getting no money, 19 included changes in deal terms, such as
easing no-shop provisions or cutting termination fees paid if
the seller backs out.  Twenty-one of the accords provided plaintiffs nothing but
new information, such as details on efforts to sell the company
and calculations behind financial projections.  Woolery said that, to settle a case, a company “might
agree in the settlement, OK, we’ll change the following 25
words.”  Among plaintiffs’ firms with leading roles in five or more
M&A settlements,  Grant & Eisenhofer PA (3260259L)  and  Prickett, Jones &
Elliott PA , both Wilmington-based, were most likely to get
financial recoveries for investors, the data showed.  Prickett Jones did so in 58 percent of cases it helped
settle as lead or co-lead counsel; Grant & Eisenhofer did so in
50 percent of such cases.  As for the sums that went to investors, Grant & Eisenhofer
led with $253.9 million in four cases in which it played a key
role. Attorneys took $53.1 million of that amount in fees.  Lead Counsel  Next was New York-based  Bernstein Litowitz Berger &
Grossman LLP (142230L) , with settlements grossing $164.5 million for
clients in three cases where it played a key role.  How work and money are divided among different firms in the
same case isn’t disclosed, so the recovery amount is ascribed to
each law firm that worked as lead, co-lead or so-called of
counsel -- typically out-of-state firms co-piloting a case.  The Faruqi law firm played a leading role in 10 of the 57
suits, making it second to Prickett in settlement activity
during the two years measured here. Among firms settling five or
more cases, only Faruqi’s clients ended up empty handed in cases
it helped direct. In nine of its 10 settlements, Faruqi’s
clients received only additional information on the deals.  Nadeem Faruqi  and Rowley, the Faruqi law firm partner in
the BJ Services case, didn’t return telephone and e-mail
messages seeking comment on their lawsuits.  ‘Hungry Readers’  Judge Strine remarked on the frequency of disclosure-only
settlements at an October hearing in a Faruqi case. He quipped
that shareholders “seem to be hungry readers,” as they always
want more information about deals, and then settle their cases
when they get it.  Besides the 57 cases settled and closed, 10 M&A class
actions were dismissed without settlements or trials, leaving
the attorneys and their clients with nothing to show for suing.  Scores of other suits were consolidated with complaints
challenging the same deals. Where multiple cases were filed over
one deal, only the lead suit was analyzed.  Of the 17 class actions that brought minority shareholders
money, two were also filed as so-called derivative suits, in
which shareholders sue directors on behalf of the company.  Cases filed solely as derivative suits were excluded from
the study because awards in those cases go to the companies, not
directly to shareholders. One such suit led to a trial and the
biggest verdict measured here, $2 billion, to  Southern Copper
Corp. (SCCO)  It benefited shareholders by about $800 million,
Northwestern’s Black said.  Quick to Sue  Law firms often move quickly to sue after a deal is
announced. Two hours and 27 minutes after a Dec. 27 Business
Wire press release that  Ventas Inc. (VTR) , a Chicago-based owner of
senior housing and medical properties, would acquire  Cogdell
Spencer Inc. (CSA) , the law firm  Rigrodsky & Long PA  posted a notice
that it was investigating whether directors sought the best
price.  It invited calls from shareholders in Cogdell, a medical-
building owner in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina . Within a week, 11
more firms posted similar notices. Lawsuits followed.  Some lawyers sue the day after a merger announcement, as
happened in BJ Services case. For the cases in this study, the
median interval was eight days, according to court records.  “Every single deal, as soon as it gets announced, websites
go up and notices go up on the Internet that this and that
plaintiffs’ firm is investigating,” Woolery said. “What they
are doing is trolling for plaintiffs.”  ‘It’s Not Trolling’  “It’s not trolling,” Seth D. Rigrodsky, a principal in
the six-lawyer Wilmington firm, said in an interview. “It’s
letting investors know that there’s possible legal relief
available.”  Labaton Sucharow, which represents institutional investors
rather than individuals, never posts notices of investigations,
said Azar.  She said Labaton monitors its clients’ portfolios, watching
for deals involving their holdings. Its investigators “look at
what the street is saying about the deal, what’s gone on over
the last year or two” and whether “this is a company that’s on
the rise,” Azar said.  The firm studies the numbers and looks for possible
conflicts of interest among advisers and board members, she said.
That can all happen within a few days, said Azar.  “Sometimes you file quickly because it is a very quickly
moving deal,” she said.  Proxy Statement  Within four days of a merger agreement’s signing, a proxy
statement must be filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission spelling out the terms. Such a filing can follow the
initial public announcement by several weeks.  By that time, Azar said, other lawyers may have sued,
reducing her firm’s chance of becoming lead counsel and
directing the litigation for its clients. Lead counsel also
usually reap the largest share of fees.  “If they want us to have a seat at the table, and if we
wait for the proxy to come out, then we lose that opportunity,”
she said.  In the cases reviewed, lawyers fared better when they got
to court quickly. The 29 suits filed within eight days of the
deals’ announcement led to a median legal fee of $700,000. The
figure was $568,750 for the 28 filed later.  The reverse was true when it came to cash for shareholders.
Investors got money in 24 percent of the more quickly filed
cases and 36 percent of the later ones.  ‘Less Thoughtful’ Lawsuits  “The quicker the suit, the less thoughtful the suit,”
said Charles M. Elson, director of the University of Delaware’s
John L. Weinberg Center for  Corporate Governance . “You’re
striking on the mere announcement of the merger,” with little
information about its fairness, he said.  The Chancery Court is the country’s leader in securities
lawsuits, largely because Delaware is the favorite place for
companies to incorporate. It’s the legal home of more than half
of all publicly traded U.S. companies, according to the state.  Being the nation’s corporate-law leader is “the gross
domestic product of Delaware,” Coffee said.  In recent years, the state’s dominance in M&A cases has
eroded as attorneys increasingly sue elsewhere, opting for
federal courts or states where companies are based, according to
a 2011 study.  “Delaware could risk losing its status as the de facto
national corporate law court,” according to  the study ,
“Delaware’s Balancing Act,” written by Black at Northwestern
and professors at the University of Cambridge and University of
Oxford.  In the Forefront  The desire to keep Delaware in the forefront of business
litigation presents the state’s judges with a dilemma as they
rule on fees for lawyers who file weak cases, Coffee said.  “If they got really punitive” by cutting fees, he said,
“litigation would begin to flee Delaware.” Conversely,
companies might be less likely to incorporate in Delaware if
judges become too generous to lawyers, according to the study.  Chancery judges have voiced increasing reluctance at
settlement hearings to approve what they call large legal bills
for small results.  Judges regularly grill shareholder lawyers about why they
sued and how a disclosure benefits their clients, discounting
cosmetic deal changes as meaningless, according to hearing
transcripts.  “They got wise to all that,” Woolery said.  Cox Case  A turning point may have been a 2005 ruling in litigation
involving Cox Communications Inc., which was going private.  Strine began an 85-page decision by rebuking the
plaintiffs’ lawyers for filing “premature, hastily drafted,
makeweight complaints.”  He ruled the litigation was without merit and played little
if any role in boosting the share price for minority
stockholders. He approved $1.3 million in legal fees, compared
with $5 million sought.  As judges examined claims, facts, settlement terms and
legal fees in the cases evaluated here, they sometimes chided
attorneys for making unsupported claims and rewarded others for
work deemed well done, according to court transcripts.  Laster complimented the plaintiffs’ lawyers in the Del
Monte Foods case, calling their work “an excellent effort.”  The attorneys unearthed what the judge found was a serious
conflict of interest by Barclays Bank Plc.  ‘Selfishly Manipulated’  While acting as Del Monte’s adviser, London-based Barclays
“secretly and selfishly manipulated the sale process” to
“obtain lucrative buy-side financing fees,” the judge wrote.  The bank withheld information from the San Francisco-based
food company’s board while it helped two private-equity firms,
 KKR & Co. (KKR)  and Vestar Capital Partners, unite in a single buyout
bid instead of competing, Laster wrote.  Barclays said it didn’t have a chance to give its side of
the story in court because it wasn’t a party to the suit.  “We believe that the sale process leading up to the merger
achieved the best price reasonably available for Del Monte
stockholders,” Kerrie-Ann Cohen, a spokeswoman for the bank,
said in a Jan. 27 e-mail.  The settlement gave shareholders $89.4 million, which
included $22.3 million in attorney fees. Of the total settlement,
Barclays paid $23.7 million.  “The banks now try not to be on both sides of a deal,”
said  Stuart Grant  of Grant & Eisenhofer, lead plaintiffs’ firm
in the case. “When you see a case done right, you start seeing
behavior being changed in the boardroom.”  ‘Metaphysical Question’  In cases where shareholders get no financial recovery,
judges are faced with an “almost metaphysical question” as
they decide the legal work’s value, Judge William B. Chandler III said in a 2010 hearing when he headed the Chancery court.  In approving fees, judges consider the usefulness of new
disclosures and deal modifications, legal skill, hours worked,
difficulty of issues, and the contingency basis on which lawyers
take cases with no guarantee of payment, according to court
transcripts.  If all sides agree to a sum for legal bills, judges often
accept the agreement unless the amount is “outlandish,” as
Laster said in one case.  One example involved the low-hanging fruit described by
Judge Noble in the BJ Services suit. In that case, plaintiff
lawyers got $500,000, 29 percent less than the $700,000
requested.  Removed Three Firms  And in 2010, the year after he joined the court, Laster
removed three law firms from leadership roles in a suit filed by
minority stockholders of  Revlon Inc. (REV)   In that case, investors claimed they would be underpaid
when the controlling shareholder, MacAndrews & Forbes Holdings
Inc., owned by billionaire  Ronald Perelman , acquired all of the
company’s publicly traded stock in exchange for new preferred
shares.  In seeking fees, the judge wrote, plaintiffs’ attorneys
appeared to have claimed undeserved credit for changes in the
deal’s terms, exaggerated the benefits of “tweaks” and failed
to notice red flags pointing to the transaction’s unfairness.  The attorneys tried to help New York-based Revlon
circumvent a requirement that stockholders tender at least half
of shares not held by New York-based MacAndrews,  Laster wrote .
Only 42 percent were tendered, he said.  The judge replaced as co-lead counsel Wolf Popper LLP in
 New York  and Rigrodsky & Long, as well as  Rosenthal, Monhait &
Goddess PA (1440L)  as Delaware liaison counsel.  ‘An Aberration’  That was “an aberration” for his firm, Rigrodsky said in
an interview.  “Laster has had no problem appointing my firm lead counsel
in many cases since then,” the lawyer said.  Laster, in a later hearing in a case involving Rigrodsky’s
firm, said he didn’t think the firm was responsible for the
failings in the Revlon case, according to a transcript.  Joseph A. Rosenthal of Rosenthal Monhait didn’t respond to
telephone and e-mail requests for comment on the case. A Wolf
Popper attorney involved in the Revlon case, Robert M. Kornreich,
declined to comment on it.  Judges also balk at high fees when a complaint’s
allegations prove to be untrue.  In what he called a “stinky” case, Strine complained at
an October fee hearing about “mundane” disclosures touted as
significant in an accord reached by the Faruqi firm.  Biggest Achievements  The law firm said one of its biggest achievements in the
case was learning the fee arrangement that Danvers Bancorp Inc.
had with Endicott Financial Advisors. The Massachusetts-based
 bank holding company  was to be sold to  People’s United Financial
Inc. (PBCT)  in a $480 million deal. Initial documents omitted the
payment to Endicott, which turned out to be unremarkable.  “So you have no basis to believe Endicott had some unusual
incentive?” Strine asked Faruqi’s  Adam Gonelli .  “We were suspicious that there might be,” which was a key
reason to sue, Gonelli said.  “And then it turned out to get what is a fairly standard
fee, right?” Strine asked.  “Yes, your honor.”  The judge approved a $150,000 fee -- 80 percent less than
the $750,000 initially requested by the plaintiffs, and 61
percent below the $380,000 fee to which the defense agreed.  When almost every merger or acquisition is challenged in
court, no matter how good the deal is for investors, the
deterrent value of such litigation disappears, Columbia’s Coffee
said.  Delaware courts could avoid such an eventuality if they
punish lawyers who file frivolous cases by denying them fees, he
suggested.  “If you pay the class counsel a fee in any case, it’s like
putting a saucer of milk for a kitten at your back door,”
Coffee explained. “Overnight you’ll have 20 cats.”  Delaware Chancery Court Class Action M&A Suits  Settled and Completed, 2010-2011  Law Firms With a Leading Role in Five or More Cases  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Ann Woolner  in Atlanta at   awoolner@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Rodney Yap in  Los Angeles 
at   ryap@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Patrick Oster at   poster@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Koray Oncel in New York
. 