-- Axa Second-Half Net Falls 82% on Greece, U.S. Goodwill Cost
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2012-02-16T18:23:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/axa-second-half-net-falls-82-on-greek-writedown-life-sale-1-.html
Axa SA (CS) ,  Europe ’s second-largest
insurer, posted an 82 percent drop in second-half profit, hurt
by writedowns on Greek sovereign debt and a one-time cost at its
U.S. variable-annuity life-insurance book.  Net income fell to 325 million euros ($423 million) from
1.81 billion euros a year earlier, according to figures on the
Paris-based company’s website today. That missed the 1.93
billion-euro average estimate of nine analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Second-half operating profit fell 3.2 percent.  “There were exceptional negative items, especially the
goodwill on the U.S. variable annuities,” said Nicolas Jacob,
an analyst at Oddo Securities in Paris who has a “buy” rating
on the stock.  Chief Executive Officer Henri de Castries, 57, is counting
on growth in Asia after disposing of businesses in the U.K. and
 Canada . In June, he set a 2015 target to reach annual operating
profit of more than 6 billion euros compared with 3.88 billion
euros in 2010. Axa expanded in Asia last year and scaled back in
Canada as it aims for 10 percent annual growth in operating
earnings a share through 2015.  Axa’s plan to meet the target “is well suited to the
challenges of the current environment,” de Castries said in a
statement today. “We delivered a strong set of results despite
difficult market conditions.”  The insurer plans to pay a 2011 dividend of 69 cents a
share, unchanged from a year earlier. Full-year profit climbed
57 percent to 4.32 billion euros, helped by one-time gains.  Greek Writedowns  Axa fell 16 cents, or 1.3 percent, to 12.06 euros. The
stock has declined 24 percent in the past year as the European
sovereign crisis weighed on the region’s financial shares. Axa
has a market value of 28.4 billion euros.  Axa increased the provisioning level on its Greek
sovereign-debt holdings to 78 percent at the end of December.
The insurer took 387 million euros in Greek writedowns last
year, including 295 million euros in the second half, it said.  In the second half, the French insurer posted 943 million
euros in one-time goodwill costs on its U.S. “Accumulator”
variable-annuity life-insurance book, it said.  Operating earnings, excluding  capital gains , one-time
charges and asset-valuation swings, fell 3.2 percent to 1.68
billion euros in the second half, based on restated 2010
operating earnings.  “The operating performance wasn’t so bad,” said Oddo’s
Jacob. “Of course the volatile environment weighed on their
life-insurance and asset-management franchises, but not so much
in the end.”  Earnings Details  Axa doesn’t break down second-half  earnings . Bloomberg
calculated profit in the period by subtracting first-half
earnings from full-year profit. Chief Financial Officer Gerald Harlin declined to confirm the profit figures on a conference
call with reporters.  Earnings at the company’s life and savings unit declined 15
percent to 957 million euros, missing analysts’ average estimate
of 981 million euros.  Property and casualty profit gained 21 percent to 859
million euros, less than analysts’ estimates of 872 million
euros.  Axa’s solvency ratio, a measure of an insurer’s capacity to
absorb losses, reached 188 percent at the end of December.
That’s up from 186 percent at the end of June.  Asia Growth  Axa, along with AMP Ltd., completed in April a A$13.3
billion ($14.3 billion) bid for Melbourne-based Axa  Asia  Pacific
Holdings Ltd. for control of businesses in a region where wealth
is growing at the world’s fastest rate.  By completing the deal on Axa Asia Pacific, Axa gained
direct control of its operations in Asian countries stretching
from  India  to  Indonesia . Axa last year also booked a one-time
gain of 626 million euros from the disposal of its business in
 Australia  and  New Zealand , the company has said.  Intact Financial Corp., Canada’s largest property and
casualty insurer, on May 31 agreed to buy Axa’s Canadian
business for C$2.6 billion ($2.6 billion) to bolster its
premiums in the country by almost 50 percent. Axa booked a 902
million-euro one-time gain from the disposal of its Canadian
business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  