-- Taymor to Get ‘Spider-Man’ Royalties as Producers Settle
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-02-16T22:13:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/taymor-to-get-spider-man-royalties-as-producers-directors-group-settle.html
Producers of “Spider-Man: Turn Off
the Dark” said they will pay royalties to the show’s former
director,  Julie Taymor , three months after she sued for back
pay.  Taymor is entitled to $9,750 a week, according to a
production budget filed with the  New York  State Attorney
General’s office.  The announcement is part of a settlement with the Stage
Directors and Choreographers Society, which had filed an
arbitration on Taymor’s behalf. She’s entitled to royalties from
the beginning of the run through the end.  Producers of the $75 million musical continue to battle in
court over her role in writing the book of the musical and
whether she’s owed money. She was replaced in March, and
producers said in court papers that a new book they commissioned
isn’t similar to the book on which she collaborated.  Laura Penn, executive director of the directors society,
said she’s hopeful there will be a settlement.  “Julie should be making great theater and not in
litigation,” she said in a telephone interview.  Taymor wasn’t available for comment, said a spokesman,
Chris Kanarick.  Taymor sued producers in November 2011, claiming that they
refused to pay royalties guaranteed by her contract and violated
her intellectual-property rights by changing the show without
her permission. As the co-writer, she said she worked on the
script for more than seven years. Producers countersued last
month in federal court in  Manhattan .  The show formally opened on June 14, 2011, after 182
previews. Last week, its eight performances grossed $1.4
million, behind only “Wicked” and “The Book of Mormon,”
according to the Broadway League, a trade group,  The case is Julie Taymor v. 8 Legged Productions LLC, 1:11-
cv-08002-RJH, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net  