-- Bank Mortgage Probes Will Proceed, New York and Delaware Say
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-02-16T21:53:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/bank-mortgage-securitization-probes-will-proceed-say-new-york-delaware.html
State and federal officials will
aggressively investigate misconduct in the bundling of mortgages
into securities following a settlement with banks over
foreclosure abuses, the New York and  Delaware  attorneys general
said.  The $25 billion agreement announced last week was crafted
to allow further probes of banks to proceed by states and
federal agencies, including inquiries into possible criminal
violations, New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  and
Delaware’s  Beau Biden  said today.  “We are all committed to pursuing real investigations for
all the areas that we are still able to investigate,
specifically and most importantly on the securitization side,”
Biden said in an interview. “You’re going to see a real effort
on our part and the New York attorney general to pursue the
securitization pieces of this to wherever it takes us.”  The U.S.  Justice Department  in January announced the
formation of a joint state-federal group that will investigate
misconduct that led to the financial crisis through the bundling
of  mortgage loans  into securities sold to investors. The group
is led by officials from the Justice Department, the Securities
and Exchange Commission and Schneiderman’s office.  The group will share resources and information,
Schneiderman said in a remarks today at a breakfast sponsored by
Crain’s New York Business. Schneiderman and Biden have been
cooperating in an investigation of bank mortgage practices.  ‘Comprehensive Solution’  “Our goal is to cut through a lot of confusion, identify
what the misconduct out there was -- criminal or subject to
civil liability -- and come up with a comprehensive solution,”
Schneiderman said.  The $25 billion settlement reached between 49 states and
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based  Bank of America Corp. ,  New York- 
based  JPMorgan Chase & Co ., New York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C) , San
Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co . and Detroit-based  Ally
Financial Inc (ALLY) . will provide mortgage relief to homeowners and
sets requirements for how the banks conduct foreclosures and
service loans.  The banks in return were granted liability releases
protecting them from certain claims. Biden and Schneiderman said
the releases are narrowly tailored to allow further
investigations of bank practices.  Years of Litigation  Even after agreeing to resolve the government’s
investigation into banks’ handling of foreclosures, which
included so-called robo-signing of mortgage documents, lenders
still face years of litigation and billions of dollars in
liability over their practices, experts said earlier this month.  Biden, who was among a group of  attorneys general  who
pushed to narrow the scope of the liability releases, said the
amount of money dangled in front of state officials played a
role in their decisions on whether to back the deal. The 43-
year-old Biden was one of the last attorneys general to sign on
to the accord.  “It was difficult for many attorneys general to stare
millions upon millions of dollars for relief of homeowners in
their state in the eye and turn it down,” he said.  ‘Nervous System’  A major focus of the probes going forward will be alleged
misrepresentations about the mortgage-backed securities made in
information sent to investors, said Biden, son of U.S. Vice
President  Joe Biden . The Delaware attorney general and
Schneiderman pushed to ensure those claims weren’t covered by
the nationwide foreclosure settlement.  Biden said he’s “increasingly hopeful” the federal-state
group investigating mortgage securitization will have enough
resources to do its work.  Lawyers in Biden’s office will press ahead with a lawsuit
filed in October against Merscorp Inc., which operates a
national mortgage registry used by banks, he said. Delaware
officials contend the network used deceptive practices to hide
information from borrowers.  “MERS is the nervous system of the entire industry,” and
the state is asking a Delaware judge to allow the suit
challenging its practices to proceed, he said.  Law-enforcement officials haven’t been aggressive enough in
their efforts to hold institutions and people accountable for
conduct tied to the financial crisis, Biden said.  ‘Body Language’  “Some of the body language on our side of the table hasn’t
been aggressive enough,” he said. “Everything has to be on the
table, from lawsuits to criminal action.”  Delaware’s top lawyer acknowledged many homeowners are
frustrated with the pace of investigations. He said he will
“redouble his efforts” to zero in on potential securities-
fraud claims.  “People should be itchy. People should be frustrated.
People should demand action and at least some answers,” Biden
said.  “Many more people went to jail in the S&L crisis than have
been held accountable in this crisis,” he said. “And this
crisis makes the S&L crisis look like a walk in the park.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ; Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  