-- Bank of America Seeks to Block CEO Deposition in MBIA Suit
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-02-16T21:51:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/bank-of-america-seeks-order-on-ceo-deposition-filing-says.html
Bank of America Corp.  asked a New
York state judge to block the deposition of Chief Executive
Officer Brian T. Moynihan in a fraud suit brought by  MBIA Inc. (MBI)   The nation’s second-biggest lender, based in  Charlotte ,
 North Carolina , asked New York state Supreme Court Justice
Eileen Bransten in  Manhattan  to issue a protective order against
the deposition, according to a court filing yesterday.  “We have moved for a protective order because a chief
executive officer of a major corporation may only be deposed
when he or she has unique information that is not available
through other means.” Bank of America spokesman Lawrence Grayson said today in a statement. “The discovery process
remains fully available to MBIA, including through the numerous
current and former executives that MBIA will be deposing.”  The bank asked Bransten to order MBIA to explain why a
protective order against the deposition shouldn’t be issued. The
motion was filed under seal in accordance with the parties’
agreement regarding the production and exchange of information
that includes internal company documents, Grayson said.  2008 Lawsuit  MBIA, which sued Bank of America’s Countrywide Financial
unit in 2008, guarantees payments to investors that bought
securities backed by pools of the lender’s loans. The insurer
says the loans were riskier than Countrywide promised, and as
they defaulted, the Armonk, New York-based company was forced to
make payments.  Bank of America bought Calabasas, California-based
Countrywide in July 2008 as the lender faced payment defaults
and foreclosures tied to subprime mortgages. MBIA sued
Countrywide three months later.  Moynihan, 52, has been chief executive since taking over
for  Kenneth Lewis  in 2010.  Kevin Brown , an MBIA spokesman, declined to comment on the
motion in an e-mail. Manisha M. Sheth, an attorney with  Quinn
Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP  who is representing MBIA, didn’t
immediately return a telephone message left at her office.  William Sushon, an attorney at  O’Melveny & Myers LLP  who
filed the bank’s proposed protective order, didn’t immediately
respond to messages seeking further comment.  ‘Widespread’ Fraud  Lawyers for MBIA in a letter yesterday asked Bransten to
let them file a motion to compel Countrywide to produce
“several categories” of documents, many of which relate to
“recently-uncovered evidence of widespread mortgage-origination
fraud at Countrywide.”  “The lengths to which Countrywide will go to conceal its
shoddy and sometimes fraudulent origination practices are made
obvious by Countrywide’s grudging and belated production two
weeks ago -- after the end of discovery and the relevant
dispositions -- of an incomplete set of records concerning the
loans in the securitizations at issue from Countrywide’s fraud-
tracking database, FACTS, which MBIA had not previously known to
exist,” Jonathan B. Oblak, a lawyer for MBIA, said in the
letter.  Countrywide has refused to produce documents “relating to
claims of fraud in mortgage origination,” including some
related to a hotline intended to receive complaints about
illegal activity by employees and some related to the firings of
two whistleblowers, Oblak said in the letter.  ‘Promptly and Voluntarily’  Lawyers for Countrywide said today in a letter to Bransten
that the company “promptly and voluntarily” produced all
records contained in the FACTS database concerning loans in the
securitizations that were insured by MBIA.  “MBIA’s motion is a patent attempt to renege on the
parties’ earlier agreements and part of MBIA’s continuing
strategy to pre-try this case before the court and in the press
based on nothing more than hyperbolic rhetoric and falsehoods,”
Sarah Heaton Concannon, a lawyer for Countrywide, said in
today’s letter.  Bransten ruled Jan. 3 that MBIA need only show Countrywide
made misrepresentations about the loans, instead of also
establishing they caused the losses the bond insurer is seeking
to recover. Countrywide has appealed that ruling.  The case is MBIA Insurance Corp. v. Countrywide Home Loans
Inc., 602825-2008, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  