-- Barclays Starts U.K. Mobile Phones Service to Transfer Money
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-02-16T09:07:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/barclays-starts-u-k-service-to-transfer-money-via-mobile-phones.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K. bank led by
 Robert Diamond , today begins a service to enable its 11.9
million checking account customers to transfer money to one
another using mobile phones.  Barclays’s Pingit application will allow users to send as
much as 300 pounds ($470) a day by linking their mobile phone
number to their checking account details. Anyone with a U.K.
checking account will be able to receive payments and the
service will be expanded to customers without a Barclays account
by early March, the London-based bank said in the statement.  Barclays, Britain’s third-largest bank by assets, last week
its U.K. consumer unit division increased pretax profit by 3
percent to 1.02 billion pounds in 2011 from the year-earlier
period.  Antony Jenkins , consumer banking head, in June promised
a “simpler, more effective way to do business.” The bank said
Pingit is the first of its kind in  Europe .  “Once people start to use the service they’ll like it,
they’ll become very happy to do business with Barclays and the
next time they think about getting a mortgage, savings account
or  credit card  they’ll think of Barclays,” Jenkins said in an
interview today.  Development was started in the middle of last year, and the
bank is betting it can attract customers now to keep them away
from any competitor’s systems that may emerge, he said.  “Once you’ve got people in the system, they’ve got no
incentive to go anywhere else, so why use another service?” he
said.  The application can be used on Apple Inc. iPhones, Google
Inc.’s Android and Research In Motion Ltd.’s BlackBerry, the
lender said. Bill payments, international payments could be
added to the software, Jenkins said.  “We have plenty of ideas in the hopper,” said Jenkins.  -- Editors: Jon Menon, Steve Bailey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  