-- Barred Hospice Doctor’s Narcotics Orders Refused by Pharmacists
-- B y   P e t e r   W a l d m a n
-- 2012-02-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/barred-hospice-doctor-s-narcotics-orders-refused-by-pharmacists.html
A Pittsburgh doctor whose office was
raided by government agents prescribed such “massive” dosages
of narcotics that some drug stores refused to fill his orders,
according to the owners of local pharmacies.  People who came in with prescriptions written by Oliver H.
Herndon seemed too healthy to need large amounts of potent
painkillers, said Adam Rice, who owns five Spartan Pharmacy
stores. Rice said he and more than a dozen pharmacists conferred
and agreed about six months ago not to fill his prescriptions.
Timothy Davis, the owner of Beaver Health Mart Pharmacy in a
Pittsburgh suburb, said he stopped honoring them after trying to
verify a prescription with the doctor’s office.  One Sept. 8, 2009, slip signed by Herndon for a 45-day
supply of Oxycontin -- 360 80-milligram tablets -- for a hospice
patient named Gary Groomes included a note saying “special
dosing” in parenthesis.  “That’s typical of the prescriptions we saw out of his
office,” Rice said. “You don’t have to be a pharmacist to know
that’s an outrageous amount of narcotic medication.”  Agents of the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency,  Federal Bureau
of Investigation  and Pennsylvania attorney general’s office
searched Herndon’s office Feb. 14 and served him with a
suspension order barring him from prescribing controlled
substances, such as Oxycontin and Percocet. While not arrested
or charged, he is the subject of an “ongoing” investigation,
according to Gary Davis, the assistant special agent in charge
of the DEA’s Pittsburgh office.  Tougher Regulations  Herndon didn’t respond to a message left with his answering
service. An internist who is board certified in hospice and
palliative medicine, according to his website, Herndon, 40, is
the corporate medical director of Horizons Hospice of
Pittsburgh, and the medical director of four nursing homes.  He was featured in a Bloomberg News story about his care of
Groomes, who became addicted to narcotics while spending nearly
three years in  hospice care , according to his family and medical
records. Groomes died at 52 last August, 10 months after he was
discharged from hospice and dropped by Herndon as a patient,
according to Groomes’ wife, Donna.  Herndon increased his narcotics to 2,880 milligrams a day,
or 14 times what he took before he was on hospice, according to
the records. The drugs included oxycodone, Oxyfast and Roxanol.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  has proposed new
rules for opioid narcotics, synthetic painkillers that act on
the same brain receptors as opium. They are widely misused,
according to the FDA’s  website , which says a 2007 survey found
more than half of abusers got them from a friend or relative.  The FDA proposal is to require manufacturers to distribute
educational materials with opioid narcotics; doctors and nurses
would have to undergo special training. The agency considered
registries to track doctors who prescribe the drugs and patients
who use them until the hospice and pain-management industries
opposed the idea.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Peter Waldman in  San Francisco  at 
 pwaldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at 
 gputka@bloomberg.net  