-- Bernanke Says Bank Supervisors Need to Strike Delicate Balance on Lending
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-02-16T13:59:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/bernanke-says-bank-supervisors-need-to-strike-delicate-balance-on-lending.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said bank supervisors must strike a ‘delicate balance”
between encouraging lending and avoiding a race to the bottom in
loan standards.  Speaking on community banking in Arlington,  Virginia , the
Fed chairman said “supervisors must insist on high standards
for lending, risk management, and governance.”  “At the same time, it is important for banks, for their
communities, and for the national economy that banks lend to
creditworthy borrowers,” Bernanke said today at a conference
sponsored by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. “Getting that
balance right is not always easy, but it is of utmost
importance.”  U.S. banks face higher costs under tougher supervision
including the Dodd-Frank Act. The banks have watched the gap
shrink between their interest earned and interest paid out as
the Fed pushed down long-term  interest rates  by purchasing $2.3
trillion in bonds and lengthened the average duration of the
securities in its portfolio.  “Despite some recent signs of improvement, the recovery
has been frustratingly slow, constraining opportunities for
profitable lending,” Bernanke said.  Speeding Up  The Fed’s low-rate policy is aimed at speeding up the
economic recovery “which will increase loan demand and
opportunities for profitable lending,” he said. “It is
necessary to set the negative effects on net interest margins
against the positive effects of a strengthening economic and
lending environment.”  The U.S. 10-year note yielded 1.93 percent in  New York  at
8:32 a.m., while rates on a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage averaged
3.87 percent during the week of Feb. 9, according to  Freddie
Mac , the McLean, Virginia, mortgage finance company. A year ago
the interest rate was about 5 percent.  Credit markets are recovering slowly, and mortgage
delinquency rates are declining. Consumer borrowing rose by
$19.3 billion to $2.5 trillion in December. That followed a
$20.4 billion advance the prior month. The back-to-back increase
at the end of 2011 was the biggest since the rise from October
until November 2001.  Mortgage delinquencies declined to 8 percent of total
residential loans outstanding in the third quarter compared with
9.13 percent in the same quarter a year earlier.  Bernanke said  capital ratios  are improving at community
banks, while provisions for loan losses are decreasing. He said
that the Fed is trying to adjust both examinations and
regulation to community banks.  Bernanke, speaking last week at a homebuilders convention
in  Orlando ,  Florida , said credit is “too tight” for the U.S.
housing market, impeding economic growth.  “The pendulum has probably swung too far in the other
direction,” Bernanke said last week. “Conditions are still too
tight for the health of both the financial system, for the
construction industry and for our economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in  Washington  at   ctorres3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  