-- Biggest Mining Deals No Promise of Xstrata Bonanza: Commodities
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-02-16T08:43:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/biggest-mining-deals-no-promise-of-gains-for-xstrata-holders-commodities.html
Shareholders in  Xstrata Plc (XTA) 
shouldn’t expect that a takeover by  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) 
will deliver a windfall if the history of the deals that created
two of its biggest rivals is any guide.  Rio Tinto Group’s London shares gained 0.5 percent in
dollar terms in the five years after the company was formed in
1995, a time when aluminum producer  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  more than
doubled, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) 
climbed 270 percent in dollar terms in  Melbourne  in the five
years after the largest mining company was created in 2001,
trailing the quadrupling of Freeport McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.
and the sevenfold surge at Vancouver-based  Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK/B)   Glencore’s 23 billion-pound ($36 billion) offer for Xstrata
to establish the fourth-biggest mining company behind BHP,  Vale
SA (VALE3)  and Rio Tinto has sparked criticism from shareholders who say
the premium offered doesn’t value the coal producer’s outlook.
The terms of the bid mean Xstrata holders with 16.48 percent of
the stock can block the deal.  “Mergers and acquisitions generally haven’t delivered a
great deal of price appreciation across the board,” Peter Hickson, Hong Kong-based head of commodities research at UBS AG,
said by phone. “In the case of mining companies, you’ve just
got to be really careful as performance is very much colored by
prices and conditions.”  ‘Subtract Value’  Glencore, the world’s largest publicly-traded commodities
supplier, offered 2.8 of its shares for each one in Xstrata to
acquire the 66 percent of the Zug, Switzerland-based company it
doesn’t already own.  Schroders Plc (SDR)  and  Standard Life Plc (SL/)  oppose
the terms. Fidelity Worldwide Investment called for the bid,
described by RBC Capital Markets analysts as a “lowball”
proposal, to be revisited.  “The norm is that they usually subtract value,” Peter Major, an analyst at Cadiz Corporate Solutions in  Cape Town 
who’s been covering the  mining industry  since 1989, said by
phone. “More often than not, I think three-quarters of the
time, it’s value destructive.”  Rio Tinto was created when London-based RTZ Plc merged with
Melbourne-based CRA Ltd. in October 1995. BHP Ltd., based in
Melbourne, bought Billiton Plc in an all-stock deal, announced
in March 2001.  ‘Revisit’ Terms  Since its listing in 2002 in  London , Xstrata more than
tripled. In the five years after its market debut, it had a
total annual return, including reinvesting dividends, of 39
percent. That compares with the 6 percent annual return on Rio
Tinto’s London shares in the five years after it merged with
CRA, and with BHP’s 23 percent annual return in Australian
dollars in Melbourne after it bought Billiton in 2001.  Fidelity, which holds at least 1.5 percent of Xstrata, said
Feb. 10 that while it supports the bid “in principle” the
terms “need to be revisited.” Royal London Asset Management
Ltd. owner of about 0.4 percent of Xstrata, last week said the
company needs to prove to holders the takeover will be
beneficial for investors.  “The consistent feedback we have received from Xstrata
shareholders is that the current offer of 2.8 does not reflect a
sufficient premium,” Credit Suisse Group AG analysts led by
London-based Liam Fitzpatrick said in a Feb. 13 report. “There
are a number of valuation issues but we believe the unknown
quantity of Glencore is as big an issue as any with investors.”  The investor concerns about the premium have been given
more weight by the fact that Glencore won’t be allowed to vote
its 34 percent stake in Xstrata, according to the U.K.’s
takeover code, putting the final decision into the hands of the
shareholders who control the rest of the company.  Deal Premiums  Xstrata Chief Executive Officer  Mick Davis  signaled Feb. 7
when the deal was announced that he expected shareholder backing
for the combination of his company’s mining portfolio with
Glencore’s global trading and storage network.  “This merger is the logical next step for two
complementary businesses, each with an outstanding track record
of shareholder value creation, entrepreneurial management and a
proven ability to spot valuable opportunities and capitalize on
them,” Xstrata said in an e-mailed response to a request for
comment on this story. “Glencore Xstrata will be the most
diverse major resource group, combining two complementary
industrial businesses with the best commodities marketing
business in the world to create a company capable of delivering
enduring value in a changing industry landscape.”  ‘Best Marketing Business’  Ivan Glasenberg, CEO of Glencore, said the deal establishes
“the most diverse major resource group, combining two
complementary project portfolios and pipelines with the best
commodities marketing business in the world.”  A Glencore spokesman declined to comment for this article.  Glencore’s bid represents a premium of about 8 percent,
below last year’s average of 23 percent for mining deals.
Shareholders in CRA received bonus shares for agreeing to merge
with RTZ, which held a 49 percent stake in CRA, equating to a
premium of about 7.5 percent, based on the share issue. BHP paid
an 11.4 percent premium in shares to win control of Billiton in
2001.  “In the time around 2001 the commodity world was still
very much a depressed world,” Mike Salamon, a founding director
of Billiton who led the integration with BHP, said in an
interview. “It was not a high-growth world. It was a
consolidation world.”  Merger Value  To be sure, Rio Tinto and BHP shares outperformed the
Morgan Stanley Capital International World Materials Index in
the five years after their creations and have continued to
outperform since then. Salamon pointed to the scale of the
company created by BHP’s takeover of Billiton being an advantage
for shareholders.  Mergers “are driven by the opportunities that you
unlock,” said Salamon, 56, now executive chairman of Czech
coking-coal producer  New World Resources Plc. (NWR)  “When China came
along in a big way from 2003 onwards there was no one better
placed to participate in that in just about every business than
 BHP Billiton .”  BHP’s merger with Billiton was one of the few deals to
create value, Cadiz’s Major said.  The deals also created opportunities for executives in the
target companies to lead the bigger groups. Rio Tinto was led by
Leon Davis, the former head of CRA, from 1997 to 2000. Two
former Billiton executives have been chief executives of the
combined company -- Brian Gilbertson and Marius Kloppers.  ‘Subjective Thing’  “It’s a very nebulous, subjective thing, but it’s like two
heads are better than one on a lot of problems,” Gordon Toll,
who was group mining executive for  Rio Tinto  in London until
1995 and wasn’t involved in the merger talks, said in an
interview.  The premium offered by Glencore is the second-lowest for
any mining deal worth more than $5 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Glencore can afford to offer at least 3
shares, increasing the takeover premium for Xstrata to 16
percent, and still add to earnings, according to Jefferies Group
Inc.  The terms “don’t appear to equivocally reflect the
superior growth outlook for Xstrata and its superior asset base
when looking at it in comparison to Glencore,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage $1 billion in equities at Pengana
Capital Ltd., including Xstrata shares.  “It’s the promise,” UBS’s Hickson said when asked why
shareholders would still agree to mergers that offer limited
price appreciation. “Maybe, just maybe, Xstrata and Glencore
may deliver where BHP and Rio Tinto didn’t.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  