-- Billabong Gets $823 Million Offer From TPG; Plans to Cut Jobs, Shut Stores
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2012-02-17T05:51:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/billabong-gets-823-million-offer-from-tpg-plans-to-cut-jobs-shut-stores.html
TPG Capital, the buyout company run
by  David Bonderman , offered to buy  Billabong International Ltd. (BBG) 
for A$765 million ($823 million) after a slump in the surfwear
maker’s earnings and share price.  The offer was worth A$3 a share, the  Gold Coast , Australia-
based company said today, a 68 percent premium to the previous
closing price. Billabong said it’s proceeding with asset sales,
job cuts and store closures. The  shares  climbed as much as 64
percent.  Billabong, with 677 stores globally and brands including
Element and Von Zipper, became a target after its  share price 
more than halved since cutting forecasts on Dec. 19 and flagging
a review of its  capital structure . While bids will be
considered, the company is instead selling a majority stake in
its Nixon label to cut debt and “stabilize” its balance sheet.  “The TPG offer at A$3 is quite opportunistic when you
consider the value of the business and the value of its
brands,” said Tim Montague-Jones, an analyst at Morningstar
Inc. in Sydney. “I don’t think they would sell at A$3 and it
would have to be a lot higher than that.  Billabong  rose  46 percent to A$2.62 at the close of Sydney
trading, after climbing as high as A$2.93 earlier today.  A Sydney-based spokeswoman for TPG declined to comment on
the proposal.  Trilantic Capital  Buyout firm Trilantic  Capital Partners  will buy 48.5
percent of Nixon and management will acquire a 3 percent stake,
valuing the brand at $464 million, Billabong said.  ‘‘The board could not risk the future of the company or
ignore the bird in the hand’’ to examine the proposal from TPG
Chairman Ted Kunkel said on a conference call. ‘‘Nixon was the
best available option that had the highest degree of
certainty.’’  Billabong’s  total debt  stands at A$851 million, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Of that, A$484 million falls due
in 2013 and the remainder matures the following year, the data
show.  The company has made at least  15 acquisitions  in the past
10 years, adding brands such as swimwear label Tigerlily and
retail outlets.  The TPG proposal was conditional on access to financial
data, exclusivity and Billabong agreeing not to sell assets.  The company began looking at options for its balance sheet
amid a collapse in earnings caused by stalling  consumer spending 
in  Europe  and  Australia  and a surge in the Australian dollar.  Billabong today reported a 72 percent slump in earnings,
with  net income  dropping to A$16.1 million in the six months
ended Dec. 31.  Billabong expects to close 100 to 150 stores from its
global network, which includes 302 shops in Australia and  New
Zealand  and 250 in the Americas.  The store closures, and plans to cut A$30 million from
costs, will result in about 400 jobs being lost, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Fenner in Sydney at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  