-- Billabong Said to Receive $820M Bid From TPG
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2012-02-16T02:17:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/billabong-halts-trading-after-reported-tpg-bid.html
Billabong International Ltd. (BBG) , the
surf-wear maker that halted its shares in Sydney today, received
a A$766 million ($820 million) takeover approach from TPG
Capital, according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  The buyout firm offered at least A$3 a share, or 68 percent
above yesterday’s closing price of A$1.79, said the person,
declining to be identified as the information is private. TPG,
based in Forth Worth,  Texas , was backed by funding commitments
from Australian and international lenders, the Australian
Financial Review reported earlier.  Billabong, based on  Australia ’s Gold Coast, has  tumbled  78
percent in the past 12 months. The company hired Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. to review its capital structure and weigh “all
potential alternatives” amid a profit slump, it said in
December.  The trading halt is “pending an announcement on the
strategic  capital structure  review,” Billabong said in a
statement to the Australian stock exchange today. The company,
which is due to report earnings for the six months ended Dec. 31
tomorrow, didn’t mention the Australian Financial Review report
or say whether it received an approach.  John Mossop, a spokesman for Billabong, said he couldn’t
comment beyond the statement. A Sydney-based spokeswoman for TPG
declined to comment.  According to the Australian Financial Review, several
private-equity suitors have been weighing offers for Billabong,
and Chairman Ted Kunkel received the bid from TPG on Feb. 14.  Fair Price  “It’s a fair price, given Billabong’s earnings base and
the task ahead,” said Peter Esho, Sydney-based chief market
analyst at City Index Ltd., a London-based provider of trading
services in bonds, stocks and commodities. “Apparel is a very
tough space and Billabong’s debt position is pretty worrying.”  Billabong, worth A$17.96 a share at its most in May 2007,
is among Australian retailers suffering from a slump in  consumer
confidence . Electronics retailer JB Hi-Fi Ltd. has slumped about
39 percent in the past 12 months, while Myer Holdings Ltd., the
nation’s biggest department store chain, has dropped 36 percent.  TPG, the buyout firm run by  David Bonderman , sold its stake
in Myer in a 2009 initial public offering that raised A$2.1
billion, Australia’s biggest that year. TPG and  Carlyle Group 
bought Australian hospital operator Healthscope Ltd. for A$2.7
billion, including debt, in 2010.  Billabong’s total debt stands at A$852 million, according
to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Of that figure, A$484 million
falls due in 2013 and the remainder matures the following year,
the data show.  The company said Dec. 19 that profit in that period may
fall as much as 26 percent, less than two months after
predicting a “strong” rise in earnings.  Sales stalled in the company’s three key markets amid a
cool start to the Australian summer, a drop in European demand
and a decline in December sales in  North America .  Billabong “is running out of options,” Andrew McLennan,
an analyst in Sydney at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , said in
a note yesterday, telling investors to watch for asset sales or
a capital injection. “We see the risk of an equity capital
raising being announced at the result or shortly after.”  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization will fall to A$70 million to A$75 million in the
six months to Dec. 31 from A$94.6 million a year earlier, the
company said on Dec. 19.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  