-- BMW Shrinks Engine, Adds Twitter for Top-Selling 3 Series Sedan
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2012-02-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/bmw-shrinks-engine-adds-twitter-for-top-selling-3-series-sedan.html
The  BMW (BMW)  3 Series sedan might as well
be the official ride of the up-and-coming businessperson. The
go-getter who likes going fast.  The styling is just this side of conservative, buttoned-up
but not straight-jacketed. Away from the executive parking lot,
it makes almost any commute a good time. No other model in BMW’s
line is more important. Like Porsche’s 911, it defines the
brand.  This winter we get a new, sixth generation of the four-door
fun-maker. (The coupe and M3 versions won’t change for another
two model years.) As usual, the 3 comes in two flavors, the 335i
and the less-expensive 328i. About 70 percent of sales are the
latter. The 2012 models start at $43,295 and $35,795.  After two days testing both models around central
 California  and on a closed racetrack, I found myself thinking
“less is more,” and “sometimes things are overrated for a
reason.”  The 3 Series earns its reputation yet again. It’s the best
stew of technology, driving pleasure and comfort I can think of
in its class. (Which BMW calls a “premium compact sports
sedan,” but doesn’t feel compact at all.) This time, less
really is more. I prefer the 328i over the 335i.  This is because the 328i loses its longtime six-cylinder
engine in favor of a more economical four-cylinder. The smaller
powerplant transforms the platform, making it feel younger, less
conservative and more lively. At 240 horsepower, it has 10 more
horses than the outgoing 328i, and an extra 55 pound-feet of
torque, which reaches its peak 1,500 rpm earlier. Basically it’s
got more get-up-and-go, right off the line.  Pop Rocks  Keep an eye on the tachometer. While cruising, it hovers
between 2,000 and 3,000 rpm, but pounce on the accelerator and
there’s a tiny pause, then it slingshots to 5,000 rpm on its way
to the 7,000 redline. Like Pop Rocks in your mouth, just add
soda for the fizzy explosion.  It gets gas mileage of 24 city, 36 highway for the four-
cylinder with an automatic transmission. Stop and consider that
a moment: 36 mpg highway for a car this fun. This European. It
feels like a guilty pleasure, but isn’t.  The transmission has been upgraded to eight speeds, and it
crackles quickly through the lower gears to ensure snappy
starts, then slides to eighth for the best gas savings. BMW says
the new 328i should see an improvement of 8 mpg on the highway.  Some buyers may sniff at a four-cylinder BMW, suggesting
that it simply can’t be refined as it should. And to be sure,
the 328i’s engine has a burr that’s less than sonorous. Those
standing outside the car will notice it more than those inside.  For those purists, there’s the turbo-charged, six-cylinder
335i. The engine gets 300 horsepower and 300 pound-feet of
torque and is fantastic in almost every way. The heavier 335i
gets 23 city, 33 highway, with the automatic transmission.  Racetrack Test  Very few stock 3 Series will find themselves on the
racetrack, but the opportunity to drive both models full-out was
instructive. The 335i’s extra power hurls it out of corners. My
top speed on a straightaway was 112 mph versus 108 mph with the
328i. But the lighter car’s engine is located fully behind the
front axles, giving it better balance. It playfully dances into
corners. Ultimately I was quicker around the track in the 328i,
if only slightly. Less is faster.  Visually, the biggest difference between the new generation
3 Series is the front. The headlights extend all the way inward
toward the center, touching the double-kidney grill. Slightly
more modern, but it takes away from the distinctiveness of that
signature BMW face.  The car has also grown in size again, with a slightly wider
track and 3 1/2 inches more in length. The extra is found in the
legroom of the back seats. It’s a small uptick in practicality,
giving as much rear space as older 5 Series sedans.  Red Stitching  BMW has simplified the ordering process by giving buyers
three trim levels: sport, luxury and modern. They get slightly
different finishes on the front grills, and specific interior
treatments. Luxury is heavy on wood, sport on red stitching. The
interior of the last generation was spartan and unsatisfying. It
seemed to suggest you’re better keep your eyes on the road.  The new design is more welcoming. Materials are gratifying
and the dash is beautifully contoured, with an iPad-like screen
hovering to the driver’s right. The iDrive system that controls
radio and temperature is now standard, though navigation is an
option. There’s also something called BMW Apps, which works off
your  iPhone  (and only an iPhone), and does stuff you have no
reason to be doing while driving, like updating Twitter.  We’ll be seeing more variations of models by next autumn,
including the M Sport, all-wheel-drive XDrive and a hybrid
version.  Go-getters, start your engines.  The 2012 BMW 3 Series Sedan at a Glance  Engine: Turbocharged 2.0-liter, four-cylinder with 240 hp  and 255 lb-ft of torque; turbocharged 3.0-liter, six-  cylinder with 300 hp and 300 lb-ft of torque.  Transmission: Eight-speed automatic or six-speed manual.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in 5.9 seconds; 5.4 seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 24 city, 36 highway; 23, 33.  Price as tested: $41,200; $51,320.  Best features: Overall drivability and comfort.  Worst feature: The four-cylinder motor doesn’t sound as  good as the six.  Target buyer: The businessperson going places.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on Twitter
@JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 