-- Boehner’s Take-It-to-the-Bank Resolve on U.S. Tax Cut Fizzles in 78 Days
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-02-16T17:26:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/boehner-s-take-it-to-the-bank-resolve-on-u-s-tax-cut-fizzles-in-78-days.html
U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner  said
78 days ago that lawmakers could “take to the bank the fact
that” a payroll tax cut extension “will be paid for.”  That resolve fizzled yesterday when he agreed to support a
deal that would add about $100 billion to the budget deficit.  In the time between those statements, Boehner and
Republicans faced repeated attacks from President Barack Obama
and congressional Democrats about the impasse over extending the
tax break that benefits 160 million Americans. House Republicans
were blamed in December for almost allowing the tax cut to lapse
after rejecting a deal that had been brokered by their Senate
counterparts.  Representative Patrick Tiberi, an Ohio Republican, said his
party has been “creamed in the court of public opinion.”  A Gallup poll released last week showed that a record-low
10 percent of Americans approve of the job Congress is doing,
down from the previous low of 11 percent in December.  Boehner’s shift on whether the cost of the tax break should
be covered is leading some Tea Party-backed Republicans, such as
Representative Cory Gardner of  Colorado , to say they won’t
support the deal. Still, the pivot is necessary so the party can
move past the payroll tax debate, said  Dean Zerbe , former tax
counsel for Republican Senator  Charles Grassley  of  Iowa .  ‘Boxed In’  “Republicans are boxed in and I don’t think they want to
keep seeing a series of votes on millionaire taxes,” Zerbe
said. “Now you can move on to other issues.”  Michael Steel , a spokesman for Boehner, said it would be
the speaker’s “preference” to finance the cost of the tax cut.  “Faced with the intransigence of Washington Democrats who
refuse to cut spending, he decided we need to stop a tax hike
from hitting Americans,” Steel said.  Other Republicans, including Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , also have shifted on the issue of funding the tax
break. The Kentucky Republican said Nov. 29 that lawmakers
“need to be paying” for an extension. On Feb. 14, he expressed
“frustration” that such a goal might be impossible.  Republicans succeeded in pressing Democrats to agree to
finance other parts of the payroll tax cut package, including
extension of expanded  unemployment benefits  and Medicare
reimbursements to physicians.  That isn’t enough to please some Republicans concerned
about the effects on the  budget deficit  of extending the payroll
tax cut, and of going back on earlier pledges.  “I myself went around Colorado talking about how I support
the payroll tax holiday but it’s important that we pay for
this,” Gardner said.  Undecided on Vote  Republican Representatives Lynn Westmoreland of Georgia and
 Allen West  of  Florida  said they were undecided on how they would
vote in part because the cost of the tax break isn’t covered.  House Ways and Means Chairman  Dave Camp , a Michigan
Republican, and Senate Finance Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana
Democrat, announced early this morning that they had reached a
deal on the payroll package that could be supported by a
majority of lawmakers on the House-Senate negotiating panel.
Their announcement came after some Democrats on the conference
committee staged a revolt against provisions of the deal that
would require federal workers to pay more into their pensions.  Details of that agreement may be announced later today.  Tea Party  Boehner in December appealed to the Tea Party-backed bloc
of his conference in sending a bill to the floor with provisions
that wouldn’t advance in the Democratic-controlled Senate. This
week, with the Feb. 29 expiration of the two-percentage-point
 tax cut  approaching, he needed to win the support of Democrats
to secure the votes needed to win passage.  Democrats are claiming victory on the payroll tax cut deal.
Representative Joseph Crowley, a New York Democrat, said the
Republicans’ maneuvering on the tax break ultimately will
benefit his party.  “When it comes to this issue, the Republicans are playing
on our turf at this point,” he said in a telephone interview.  Representative  Chris Van Hollen , a Maryland Democrat and a
member of the House-Senate panel negotiating the payroll deal,
has repeatedly criticized the Republican stance on the tax
break. At a Feb. 1 meeting of the panel, he said Republicans set
a “different standard” by insisting that the cost of the
payroll tax break for workers be covered while not requiring the
same of the two-year extension of the 2001 and 2003 income tax
cuts, which included provisions for high earners.  Tax Fairness  Though Republicans have ceded Van Hollen’s point, Democrats
may still use the payroll debate to bolster the tax fairness
theme of their congressional and presidential campaigns, said
Arshi Siddiqui, a former policy adviser to House Democratic
leader  Nancy Pelosi . Democrats can point to ways Republicans
would have paid for the tax break, such as by freezing federal
workers’ pay and cutting maximum unemployment benefits in states
with high jobless rates by as much as 40 weeks.  “One underlying Democratic priority has been targeted tax
relief to bolster the economy,” said Siddiqui, now a partner at
 Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP  in  Washington . “But those
benefits would have been significantly diluted with the
inclusion of harmful offsets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  