-- Bogle: Tax Break for PE Firms ‘Ridiculous’
-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 2012-02-16T19:47:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/bogle-tax-break-for-pe-firms-ridiculous-.html
John Bogle , the Vanguard Group Inc.
founder who popularized index investing, said lower tax rates
for certain types of gains earned by private equity firms are
“ridiculous.”  “I’m arguing for the capital gains rate taxable as
ordinary income,” Bogle said today in an interview with 
Bloomberg TV's Betty Liu at a conference organized by Bloomberg 
Link in  New York .  Bogle, 82, who described himself as a lifelong Republican,
has lashed out against Wall Street excesses in recent months and
has backed the so-called Volcker rule seeking to curb risky bets
by financial firms. Mitt Romney’s campaign for the Republican
presidential nomination has drawn increased scrutiny to the
private equity industry, including his former firm, Boston-based
Bain Capital LLC.  Private equity managers typically earn a percentage of
their profits from investments as compensation, which is known
as carried interest. The compensation is taxed at the 15 percent
rate for  capital gains , rather than the 35 percent top rate that
applies to regular income.  “Carried interest is a bit of a technical fraud,” said
Bogle. “I do feel these things strongly.”  Joe Dear , the chief investment officer of the  California
Public Employees’ Retirement System , said during a meeting of
the pension fund’s board on Feb. 13 that the tax break for
private equity firms is “indefensible.”  Budget Proposal  Calpers, as the retirement system is known, is the largest
public pension in the U.S. and had invested about $50 billion in
private equity as of June 30.  Private equity firms usually charge about 1.5 percent of
assets in what is called a management fee and take as much as 20
percent of the profits from investments in carried interest.  President  Barack Obama ’s fiscal 2013 budget proposal,
released earlier this week, reiterated his plan to tax carried
interest earned by hedge fund managers and private equity
partners at ordinary income rates, raising $13.5 billion over a
decade.  Bogle has spent his career advocating a low-cost approach
to investing and speaking out against against conflicts of
interest and speculative trading in the financial industry. Last
month, he said he would grade the U.S. financial system a “D”
and urged greater regulation, sharing the views of  Paul Volcker ,
the former Federal Reserve chairman who has proposed the Volcker
rule.  Bogle, a Princeton University graduate, founded  Valley
Forge , Pennsylvania-based Vanguard in 1974 and introduced the
 Vanguard 500 Index Fund , the first retail index mutual fund, two
years later. His economics research at Princeton helped lay the
groundwork for index mutual funds. When Bogle retired from
Vanguard in 2000, the company established the Bogle Financial
Markets Research Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  