-- Bond-Buying Surprise Fails to Convince as Japan Seen Missing on Price Goal
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2012-02-17T01:37:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/bond-buying-surprise-seen-failing-to-ensure-japanese-price-goal.html
The Bank of  Japan ’s plan to spend a
further 10 trillion yen ($127 billion) buying bonds may be
insufficient to cure the nation of  deflation  that’s lasted more
than a decade.  Nineteen of 21 economists in a Bloomberg News survey say
the current stimulus won’t achieve the central bank’s new goal
of 1 percent inflation any time in the next two to three years.
Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Co., a unit of Japan’s second-
biggest bank by market value, advocates more than doubling the
BOJ’s asset-purchase and bank-credit programs to 165 trillion
yen from 65 trillion yen.  The skepticism, even after Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and
his colleagues surprised most forecasters with this week’s
easing, highlights the challenge of altering perceptions that
the BOJ is less committed to fulfilling its price mandate than
the  Federal Reserve . Shirakawa last week heard lawmakers praise
the Fed’s pledge to secure 2 percent inflation.  “It’s probably espousing a much more aggressive stance
than before, but just having an aggressive stance doesn’t really
help unless people think you are actually going to follow
through,” said  Naomi Fink , head of Japan strategy at Jefferies
Japan Ltd. in Tokyo.  The BOJ said this week that it will pursue “powerful
monetary easing,” including  interest rates  close to zero, until
the goal of 1 percent year-on-year increases in the  consumer
price index  are in sight. The last year prices increased that
much was 1997. Only one of 13 surveyed economists predicted this
week’s easing.  Yen Influence  In the separate survey on the likely effects of the move,
six analysts said buying foreign bonds would also be a useful
step, and help to weaken the yen, which rose in October to a
post-World War II high of 75.35 per dollar. It traded at 79.11
at 10:30 a.m. in  Tokyo .  “The BOJ probably aimed to weaken the yen as the U.S. and
Japan compete in monetary policy to depreciate their own
currencies,” said Teizo Taya, a former central bank board
member who now advises the Daiwa Institute of Research in Tokyo.  The Fed said this week that “a few” of its policy-setting
committee members judged that economic conditions could warrant
buying additional assets “before long.” Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  had flagged the possibility last month, even amid signs
the American economy is accelerating.  Like the BOJ, the U.S. central bank has turned to buying
securities as its main tool after lowering the benchmark rate to
near zero. The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of bonds in two programs
of so-called quantitative easing.  Bernanke Comparison  “Bernanke gives the impression that he’s taking every
possible measure,” said Takehiro Sato, chief Japan economist at
Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co. in Tokyo. “I doubt if the
BOJ really wants to beat deflation as they look like they are
taking action only to avoid political pressures.”  While Japanese Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  welcomed the
BOJ’s move as “aggressive steps” to beat deflation, some
lawmakers renewed their criticism. Kozo Yamamoto, of the Liberal
 Democratic Party , said the 1 percent inflation goal was “too
low” and not a substantial change from existing policy. Takeshi
Miyazaki, a ruling Democratic Party of Japan lawmaker, said the
central bank’s approach seemed half-hearted and may give the
impression that Japan tolerates a strong yen.  While Shirakawa was called to parliament five times in nine
days this month to explain the BOJ’s stance, he later said the
subsequent steps weren’t a result of political pressure.  Economy Shrinks  Japan’s economy , the world’s third-biggest, shrank an
annualized 2.3 percent in the fourth quarter, more than analysts
estimated, after growing 7 percent in the previous three months.
Honda Motor Co., the nation’s No. 3 automaker; Toshiba Corp.,
its biggest chipmaker; and Fujitsu Ltd., the largest computer-
services firm, lowered their earnings forecasts last month.
Growth may bounce back this quarter on increased earthquake
reconstruction work.  Falling prices can inhibit an economy’s expansion by
discouraging purchases -- because the consumer knows products
will be cheaper tomorrow -- and making debts harder to repay.
The BOJ and the Fed have diverged on the role that monetary
policy can play in guiding prices.  A “few” members of Shirakawa’s policy board said
attention needed to be paid to the risk that consumers and
companies “would have increased expectations that prices were
unlikely to rise even in the medium to long term,” according to
a record of the January policy meeting released in Tokyo today.  No ’Magic Wand’  “I don’t think monetary policy alone can overcome
deflation, although we are aware that monetary policy plays a
major role,” Shirakawa said at a press conference in Tokyo this
week. In January, 2010, he said lack of demand was the “root
cause of deflation” and there was no “magic wand” to
eliminate falling prices.  In contrast, the  Federal Open Market Committee  said in a
statement on Jan. 25 that “the inflation rate over the longer
run is primarily determined by monetary policy.”  Deflation became entrenched in Japan after a burst property
and real-estate bubble in the early 1990s saddled the financial
system with non-performing loans that took years to resolve.  The
Nikkei 225 Stock Average  remains down 76 percent since its 1989
peak. A shrinking population has added to the nation’s
challenges.  Operation Shift  In the survey, 13 economists said monetary policy alone
can’t beat deflation. Masaaki Kanno, chief Japan economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Tokyo and a former Bank of Japan
official, said consumer sentiment and a lack of investment as
companies shift operations overseas are causes. Akio Makabe, an
economics professor at  Shinshu University  in central Japan, said
policies to revive the private sector are needed.  Consumer prices excluding fresh food fell 0.1 percent in
December from a year before, the third straight year of decline.
The BOJ’s stated goal is for consumer prices to rise between
above zero and 2 percent over the long term, with a 1 percent
objective for the “time being.”  The unveiling of the new target came after Prime Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda  told lawmakers last month that he expected the
BOJ to take “bold” policy actions to address the yen’s rise
and to fight deflation. Noda met with Shirakawa a day after the
central bank’s statement.  “It seems to us that government thinking has been a strong
influence behind the scenes” of the BOJ’s announcement, Naohiko
Baba, chief Japan economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in
Tokyo, wrote in a note to clients.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  