-- Bond Market Sleepwalks After Bernanke’s Downers: Caroline Baum
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2012-02-16T00:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/bond-market-sleepwalks-after-bernanke-s-downers-caroline-baum.html
     Feb. 16 (Bloomberg) --
 Ben S. Bernanke , Chairman
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
20th St. and Constitution Ave. N.W.
Washington DC 20551  Dear Ben:  I hope it’s OK if I call you Ben. No disrespect intended.
It’s just that I spend so much time with you -- at least
thinking about you -- it feels as if we are friends. By all
means, call me Caroline.  Ever since you  announced  last month that you were pushing
back D-Day for the funds rate to the end of 2014, I’ve been
scratching my head trying to figure out what you are up to.  Until that point, while I may not have agreed with
everything you did to address the “unusual and exigent
circumstances” confronting the economy, at least I knew where
you were coming from.  Now I’m flummoxed. In recent public statements and
testimonies, you went out of your way to accentuate the
negative. You threw a wet blanket on improvements in the labor
market. You even implied that additional quantitative easing may
be necessary -- to prevent inflation from falling below the
Fed’s target of 2 percent! I don’t think I’m alone in saying
that deflation doesn’t appear to be a clear and present danger.  Dueling Mandates?  I understand the Fed operates under a dual mandate from
Congress, charged with maintaining stable prices and maximum
employment. I also understand your concern about elevated  long-
term unemployment,  about the lives and livelihoods destroyed by
the lack of a job or the skills to find a new one in today’s
economy.  What I don’t understand is your strategy. The economy is
slowly improving. Employers are hiring, and the jobless rate has
fallen to a three-year low.  Manufacturing (IPMG)  is humming. An  oil-
and-gas boom  is boosting big swaths of the U.S., with spillover
effects on non-energy-producing areas that cater to the boom
towns popping up everywhere from  North Dakota  to  Pennsylvania  to
 Texas .  Yet you seem to think the emergency policy setting of near-
zero interest rates is still warranted. Why?  I’m surprised you haven’t been encouraged by the rebound in
bank lending.  Bank credit  increased for the eighth consecutive
month in January following three years of almost monthly
declines. Isn’t that a sign that your  money printing  is starting
to bear fruit? Why would you want to do more QE now?  It sure sounds as if you and the majority of your policy
committee expect inflation, which increased 2.4 percent last
year, to slow because  unemployment  is still high. That excess-
slack argument didn’t work so well in the 1970s. Why would you
rely on it now?  And whatever happened to the central-banker mantra that
 price stability  is both an end in itself and a means to an end
(full employment)? We haven’t heard that one in a while. I
suspect it’s because lawmakers are more interested in creating
and saving jobs, especially their own, than in hearing some
economic theory about how things will play out in the long run.  And another thing. It seems as if you laid out a path for
the funds rate first and then retrofitted the economic forecast
to it. Isn’t that backward?  Not that the Fed forecasts have been all that great. Like
many private forecasters, the Fed was totally in the dark about
the degree of froth in the housing market until the bad loans
almost brought down the entire financial system. And as a bank
regulator, you had a big advantage over the rest of us.  Fed in Denial  I know you believe you can manage expectations when it
comes to inflation and future interest rates. And it sure looks
as if you’ve anesthetized the  bond market  with both words and
deeds. The short end of the yield curve has been pinned down by
your  funds-rate projections  while the long end has been forced
down by your purchases. The Fed has gobbled up most of the
Treasury’s long-term issuance since October. Why would you want
to distort the shape of the yield curve, a leading indicator
providing vital information about the economy?  Besides, in managing the market’s expectations you may be
depressing business’s animal spirits.  No one envies the predicament you inherited from your
predecessor. (I know how popular the blame game is on
Pennsylvania Avenue!) What troubles me most of all, Ben, is the
possibility -- nay, the likelihood -- of another massive
misallocation of capital as a result of your interest-rate
policies. If your projections are correct, the U.S. will have
experienced six years of zero  interest rates  -- and, assuming no
deflation, negative real rates.  The Fed has never acknowledged the key role its loose-money
policies from 2003 to 2005 played in inflating the  housing
bubble . Why, I don’t know. The surge in the  volume of
adjustable-rate mortgages  with all kinds of exotic -- and
deadly, as it turned out -- properties is pretty convincing
evidence that interest rates were a factor. Why would you want
to risk this kind of outcome again?  Back in 2002, on the occasion of  Milton Friedman ’s 90th
birthday, you took responsibility for the errors the Fed made
during the Great Depression and  promised  not to repeat them.  I’m no Friedman, but I’d like to hear a promise from you.
To the extent that the housing and credit bubbles were the
proximate cause of the recession and financial crisis, will you
promise not to do it again?  With fondest regards,  Caroline  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View :  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  