-- BP Won’t Face Questions About Post-Spill Probe, Judge Says
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-02-16T22:17:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/bp-won-t-face-questions-about-spill-probe-in-trial-judge-says.html
Lawyers suing  BP (BP/)  Plc over the 2010
 Gulf of Mexico  oil spill won’t be able to cross-examine
witnesses at this month’s trial about a post-incident
investigation, a judge said.  The so-called Baxter investigation, directed by BP’s
outside counsel, is protected from disclosure by attorney-client
privilege, U.S. Magistrate Judge Sally Shushan said today,
repeating a ruling from May. Shushan also barred plaintiffs’
lawyers from asking questions about the investigation during the
trial.  “All parties shall refrain from cross-examination at trial
regarding the Baxter investigation and its work,” Shushan said
in a two-page order. She further barred questions about analyses
in an “inadvertently-produced privileged document regarding the
Baxter investigation,” she said.  The explosion of the BP well killed 11 workers and caused
the worst offshore oil spill in U.S. history. It also spurred
hundreds of lawsuits against BP and its partners. The nonjury
trial begins Feb. 27 in federal court in  New Orleans  before U.S.
District Judge  Carl Barbier . Shushan’s decisions on evidence
must be approved by Barbier before the trial.  Document Production  Plaintiffs lawyers sought production of documents related
to the post-spill investigation as part of a request for
material about probes into “systemic causes of the incident,”
Shushan said in today’s order.  BP said the investigation didn’t probe into causes of the
2010 Macondo well blowout. The investigation “involved a
forward-looking, industrywide analysis of various engineering
and legal issues,” the company said in court papers.  The investigation’s “purpose was to assist with the
provision of legal advice in various areas, including with
respect to the defense of this litigation,” according to a Feb.
9 filing by BP.  Steve Herman , one of the plaintiffs’ lawyers, said the
court agreed with BP that the so-called Baxter investigation
didn’t explore the root or systemic causes of the Macondo
disaster, according to a Jan. 26 e-mail to BP lawyer Andrew
Langan.  Not Privileged  The plaintiffs’ lawyers said the existence of the
investigation wasn’t privileged, according to Shushan. She
agreed with BP that the plaintiffs’ lawyers should be barred at
the trial from asking about the investigation or about a
confidential document the attorneys suing BP received by
mistake.  Herman said in his e-mail to Langan last month that the
plaintiffs’ lawyers wouldn’t inquire about the investigation
“if you agree that we are free to ask whether or why BP did or
did not conduct an investigation” into root or systemic causes.  “The contingent nature of your request is inappropriate,”
Langan replied.  The case is In Re:  Oil Spill  by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  