-- Brazil Plans to Scale Back Taxes Increase on Imported Vehicles
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-02-17T02:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/brazil-plans-to-roll-back-tax-increase-aimed-at-stopping-car-import-surge.html
Brazil  in March will ease a tax
increase charged on imported cars for automakers investing to
build local assembly plants, the government’s chief industrial
policy maker said.  The surcharge of as much as 30 percent was implemented last
month, amid protests from Chinese automakers, to stem a surge of
imported cars being sold in  Latin America ’s largest economy.
While the details of how the roll back will be applied have not
been finalized, companies that may benefit include Anhui
Jianghuai Automobile Group Co from China and  Germany ’s
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, both of which have announced plans
to invest in Brazil.  “The tax was used as an emergency brake, now we will lower
it,” Mauro Borges Lemos, head of the Brazilian Industrial
Development Agency, said in an interview in Brasilia yesterday.
“It’s an incentive to speed up investments.”  The measure is part of a broader effort to boost the
competitiveness of Brazil’s manufacturers, which have lost share
in a robust consumer market as a 35 percent rally in the real
since the end of 2008 lowers the cost of imports, particularly
from  China . Car imports surged 30 percent last year, accounting
for 23.6 percent of vehicles licensed compared with 18.8 percent
in 2010.  BMW and Anhui Jianghuai Automobile Group could not be
reached for comment.  Later in the year, the government will announce plans to
cut the so-called IPI tax over the next four years, beginning in
2013, giving larger breaks for vehicles that meet higher fuel
efficiency and safety standards and containing a bigger share of
locally-made parts.  “Our technology is below world standards,” Lemos said.
“What we want is modernization.”  Investment Plans  Carmakers plan to invest an estimated 30 billion reais ($17
billion) over the next three to five years, said Lemos, the main
industrial policy adviser to Trade Minister Fernando Pimentel.  As the world’s fifth-biggest car market, Brazil is a main
target for Chinese automakers looking to expand overseas. JAC
Motors plans to build a $600 million factory in the northeastern
state of Bahia this year as part of a plan to double annual
sales in Brazil by 2015.  BMW’s representative in Brazil, Henning Dornbusch, said
last month that the world’s biggest maker of luxury cars may
build a plant here if the government eases enforcement of the
tax increase. The company placed on hold its expansion plans
last year after the tax increase was announced.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s decision to protect local
carmakers surprised her country’s trade partners. Chery
Automobile Co. Ltd. from China challenged the measure in court,
while  Japan ’s government complained to the Geneva-based  World
Trade Organization  that the measure was protectionist.  Rousseff supports the tax breaks though she has not signed
off on final details of how they will be applied, Lemos said.  “The framework is in place,” he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  