-- British Airways Crews Read up on VIPs on IPads
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2012-02-16T00:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/british-airways-crews-tap-into-ipads-for-lowdown-on-vip-flyers.html
British Airways (IAG)  flight attendant
Daljit Kaur used to sift through five pages of printouts before
takeoff to memorize details of key customers. Now a flick of her
finger brings their names and foibles immediately to hand.  Kaur, a 28-year BA veteran, is one of 1,200 crew issued
with  Apple Inc. (APP)  iPads in a bid to lift service standards. Data
is loaded 24 hours before a flight and updated until departure,
with the tablet small enough to be used discreetly in the cabin.  “I’m ahead of myself in knowing where our corporate and
high-value customers are sitting, and who needs help,” Kaur, a
cabin-service director, BA’s highest rank of flight attendant,
said in  London  following a flight from Istanbul. “They look at
you and say ‘have you been on a special course?’”  Carriers are intensifying competition for premium clients
as the economic slump hits travel budgets, with Virgin Atlantic
Airways Ltd. spending 100 million ($157 million) on frills
including a cheese trolley and afternoon tea and  Deutsche
Lufthansa AG (LHA)  adding flat-bed seats that offer 8 percent more
space. Industry earnings fell 55 percent last quarter and will
slump by $1.4 billion to $3.5 billion this year, the
International Air Transport Association estimates.  London-based British Airways, the market leader on the most
lucrative premium route between  Europe  and  North America , became
the first carrier to equip crews with iPads when it began
issuing them in November after a three-month trial, and aims to
distribute as many as 2,000 to senior staff over coming months.  Personal Service  While the unit of  International Consolidated Airlines Group
SA (IAG) , Europe’s third-biggest carrier, declined to say how much it
will spend, that number of devices would cost just short of 1
million pounds at current  Apple iStore  prices.  The iPad 2s supply seating plans and passenger profiles,
helping to identify BA’s gold and black loyalty-card holders --
its most frequent and highly valued flyers -- so that Kaur and
her colleagues can greet them personally as they board.  Information available includes journey details, special
meal requests and specific medical needs, and flight attendants
are also authorized to use the tablets to submit customer
complaints, speeding up response times, British Airways said.  “The crew does it so that passengers don’t have to run
around on holiday trying to do it themselves,” said Pippa
Grech, who manages the iPad program. “Otherwise, by the time
they get off the plane, they think ‘oh, I won’t bother about
it.’” The initiative has produced a “positive response,” she
said.  ‘Identify Patterns’  Paul Johnston, 30, a consultant at  Cap Gemini SA (CAP) , Europe’s
largest computer-services company, said BA’s customer care is
“generally very good,” though the more tailored approach has
yet to impact regular flyers in the premium-economy cabin.  A silver-card holder in the  loyalty program , Johnston says
he’s eager to be elevated to gold status after traveling twice a
month from London to Atlanta since June, and that BA could
better harness new technology to spot passenger trends.  “There’s an opportunity to maybe identify patterns in
terms of travel rather than just waiting,” he said. “A
passenger may be a bronze-card holder, but if they fly across
the Atlantic six times in two months they’re likely to become a
big customer.”  While British Airways is so far unique in handing iPads to
cabin crew after Apple’s introduction of the touch-screen tablet
created the computer industry’s fastest-growing segment in 2010,
other carriers have experimented with more basic platforms.  Pilot Pads  Emirates, the largest international airline and one of a
number of fast-expanding Gulf carriers that’s squeezing BA, has
provided crews with passenger details via its “knowledge-driven
in-flight service,” or KIS, for more than five years. The
Dubai-based company’s pursers are issued with Thinkpad laptops
from Lenovo Group Ltd., the second-biggest maker of personal
computers, that convert into tablets operated with a stylus.  Other carriers have utilized iPads in different ways, with
 AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s  American Airlines , BA’s U.S. ally, becoming the
first in the world to issue the devices to pilots as so-called
Electronic Flight Bags, replacing paper manuals and navigational
charts formerly held in a carry-on kit bag weighing 40 pounds.  The switch won Federal Aviation Administration approval in
December after months of tests on routes including Los Angles-
Tokyo and is being applied across the Boeing Co. 777 fleet.
Other tablets may be used should they get FAA backing, AMR said.  The  Fort Worth , Texas-based company, which is currently in
 bankruptcy protection , is also replacing the personal in-flight
entertainment systems in the premium cabins of its Boeing 767
planes with 6,000 Samsung Electronics Co. Galaxy tablets.  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) ,  Australia ’s No. 1 airline, said Feb. 1
that a single 767 is testing a system that streams online
content to iPads handed to passengers, who will be able to view
films and media from their own devices as the trial progresses.  Backlash  The use of iPads and other tablets is likely to proliferate
as on-board Wi-Fi becomes more common, said Kevin O’Sullivan,
lead engineer at the research lab of  SITA SC , the top provider
of  information technology  and telecommunication services to
airlines. BA currently requires crews to download data before
they board, and to send fresh information once they disembark.  “With Wi-Fi you can start to do really interesting
things,” O’Sullivan said in an interview. “If a flight is
delayed you can consider who has a connecting flight and, if you
are running out of time, you may need to reorganize them.”  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293) ,  Asia ’s largest international
carrier, is looking at how it can provide crews with tools to
access passenger information “in a real time manner,” the Hong
Kong-based company said in an email, without providing details.  Still, carriers need to judge how much information they can
collect without provoking a backlash over their probing of
people’s travel and spending patterns, said Andrew Curry, a
director of  The Futures Company , a technology consultancy.  “It can go a stage too far,” Curry said. “You start to
think: ‘These people don’t really know me, they just have a data
profile.’ And there’s also a point at which we start to find
people having a lot of knowledge about us slightly spooky.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  