-- BTA Ex-Chairman Ablyazov Gets 22 Months for Contempt After Hiding Assets
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-02-16T17:22:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/bta-ex-chairman-ablyazov-gets-22-months-for-contempt-after-hiding-assets.html
Mukhtar Ablyazov, the former
chairman of  Kazakhstan ’s BTA Bank, was sentenced to 22 months in
a U.K. jail for breaching a court-ordered freeze on his assets
and lying under oath in a $5 billion fraud lawsuit.  The violations were “deliberate and brazen” and require
that Ablyazov be placed in immediate custody, Judge Nigel Teare
said today in London. Ablyazov, who fled to Britain to escape
prosecution in his home country, failed to appear at the
hearing. BTA’s lawyer said the ex-banker may be fleeing again.  “Mr. Ablyazov has lied to his own lawyers and lied to this
court,”  Stephen Smith , a BTA lawyer, said before the
sentencing. “He has had plenty of opportunities to tell us the
truth and has continually evaded doing so.”  BTA, the biggest Kazakh lender before defaulting on
$12 billion of debt in 2009, filed a series of civil suits
against Ablyazov and ex-Chief Executive Officer Roman Solodchenko claiming they took more than $5 billion from the
Almaty-based bank using fake loans, back-dated documents and
offshore companies. Both men have denied the claims.  Lawyers for BTA, which restructured its debt after being
nationalized, said Ablyazov violated a 2009 court order by
failing to reveal all his assets, including a house in the
British countryside and a  London  mansion, each valued at 20
million pounds ($31.6 million), two apartments in the U.K.
capital worth 1 million pounds each, and an offshore firm that
allegedly carried out a $300 million fraud against the bank.  Delay Request  Ablyazov’s lawyer,  Duncan Matthews , said he didn’t know his
client was planning to skip the hearing and there’s no reason to
believe he’s fleeing the country. Teare denied his request to
delay sentencing so he could advise Ablyazov on “the
consequences of his course of action.”  “The judgment should serve as a signal to Mr. Ablyazov’s
associates that the full force of the law will be pursued to
ensure court orders are obeyed,” Nikolay Varenko, a deputy
chairman at the bank, said in an e-mailed statement.  A call to Ablyazov’s spokesman, Locksley Ryan of RLF
Partnership Ltd. in London, wasn’t answered and an e-mail didn’t
receive an immediate response.  The former chairman has said the bank is pursuing the case
because he was part of the democratic opposition to Kazakhstan
President  Nursultan Nazarbayev , who has ruled the country for
more than two decades.  Safeguard Wealth  At the trial, defense lawyers said Ablyazov’s fear of
Nazarbayev forced him to use offshore firms and back-dated
documents to protect assets, and that such practices are common
among Kazakhs seeking to safeguard wealth from government theft.
Ablyazov also said he didn’t understand how the asset freeze
worked.  An earlier dispute over Ablyazov’s asset disclosure in the
case resulted in an order placing an estimated $5 billion of his
wealth into receivership. Ablyazov may serve only half the
sentence imposed today under U.K. rules, Teare said.  BTA has said litigation against he and Solodchenko will
benefit Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, Barclays Plc,
Commerzbank AG and other creditors that financed it to become
the biggest Kazakh lender before its 2009 nationalization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  