-- Buffett’s Burlington Northern Deal Is Focus of U.S. Hearing
-- B y   L i s a   C a r u s o
-- 2012-02-16T23:47:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/buffett-s-burlington-northern-deal-to-be-subject-of-u-s-hearing.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s 2010
acquisition of  Burlington Northern Santa Fe (BNI) , the second-largest
U.S. railroad by revenue, will be the subject of a hearing on
railroad shippers’ concerns that they will be asked to cover the
deal’s costs.  Burlington Northern has asked the U.S. Surface
Transportation Board to include the amount of money that
Berkshire Hathaway paid over book value for the railroad when
calculating the minimum freight rate that shippers can contest.
Including the $8.1 billion premium would raise the minimum rate
that the board would consider unreasonable for the railroad’s
customers to pay.  The hearing will be March 22 in Washington, the board said
today in an e-mailed statement. The fact that the hearing has
been scheduled may indicate the agency wants to help shippers,
said Chip Nottingham, a former board chairman.  “I think the board wants to grant some type of relief to
the shipper community,” Nottingham, who served as chairman from
2006 to 2009, said in a phone interview. It will have to
“figure out how do we make sure that the rate dispute-
resolution process is still open and available and functioning
to everybody.”  The hearing will be used to gather information, Dennis
Watson, a spokesman for the board, said in an e-mail.  Suann Lundsberg, a spokeswoman for Burlington Northern,
didn’t immediately respond to a phone call requesting comment.  Warren Buffett  is chairman and chief executive officer at
Berkshire Hathaway.  Suing the Board  No matter what the board decides, it will probably be sued,
said Nottingham, a partner in the federal affairs group of the
Richmond, Virginia-based law firm Williams Mullen.  The Western Coal Traffic League charges that  Fort Worth ,
Texas-based Burlington Northern is trying to make customers
cover Berkshire’s acquisition costs through its rates, and make
it more difficult for them to challenge rates with the U.S.
board. The group represents coal-fired electric plants west of
the  Mississippi River .  The group urged the Washington-based railroad regulator to
examine the matter in May 2011.  “This is all being done to set the stage and make things
better for future battles that we don’t know about,” Tony Hatch, a New York-based railroad analyst, said of the shippers’
challenge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Caruso in  Washington  at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  