-- California Man Pleads Guilty to Exporting Computers to Iran
-- B y   I a n   T h o m a s
-- 2012-02-16T18:13:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/california-man-pleads-guilty-to-exporting-computers-to-iran-through-dubai.html
A California man pleaded guilty to
taking part in a scheme to illegally export millions of dollars’
worth of computers to  Iran  through Dubai, U.S. prosecutors said.  Massoud Habibion, 49, co-founder of Costa Mesa, California-
based Online Micro LLC, and the company each pleaded guilty
today in  Washington  to conspiracy to violate the International
Emergency Economic Powers Act and to defraud the U.S., the
 Justice Department  said in a statement.  Mohsen Motamedian, 44, a co-owner of the company who is
also known as “Max Motamedian” and “Max Ehsan,” pleaded
guilty to obstruction of justice, prosecutors said.  Habibion, also known as “Matt Habibion” and “Matt
Habi,” conspired to export U.S.-origin computers to Iran
through Dubai without first obtaining required licenses from the
Office of Foreign Assets Control, prosecutors said.  Online Micro bought 1,000 computers from  Dell Inc. (DELL)  in May
2007 for about $500,000, according to the U.S. After receiving
service calls from individuals in Iran, Round Rock, Texas-based
Dell suspended Online Micro from placing further orders,
prosecutors said.  From November 2009 through December 2010, Online Micro
conspired with a firm based in Dubai and Tehran to export
computer-related goods to Iran from the U.S. During the
conspiracy, Online Micro sold shipments valued at more than $4.9
million, prosecutors said.  Fake Invoices  The company falsely identified the goods’ destination to
 U.S. Customs  and  Border Protection , told a government cooperator
to lie to U.S. authorities about the shipments, and had workers
make up fake invoices, prosecutors said.  Habibion faces as long as five years in prison and a
$1 million fine at sentencing, set for May 16. Motamedian faces
as long as 20 years in prison.  Habibion and his company agreed to forfeit $1.9 million,
prosecutors said. Motamedian will forfeit $50,000 to settle a
charge of making a false statement to federal law enforcement
agents, the U.S. said.  The case is U.S. v. Habibion, 11-cr-00118, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Thomas in New York at 
 ithomas15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  