-- California May Benefit From ‘Pent-Up Demand’ for Debt, Wells Capital Says
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   W i l l i a m   G l a s g a l l
-- 2012-02-16T17:33:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/california-debt-offer-faces-pent-up-demand-wells-capital-s-miller-says.html
California (STOCA1)  will benefit from “pent-
up demand” for its debt in the $2 billion sale of general-
obligation securities it plans for March 1, said  Robert Miller ,
a senior portfolio manager at Wells Capital Management.  The state’s debt is rallying the most in three years after
Governor  Jerry Brown  and Treasurer Bill Lockyer curbed borrowing
to help shrink deficits totaling more than $35 billion since
Brown took office in January 2011. The state borrowed $3.3
billion in 2011, the least in four years, and hasn’t sold tax-
exempt debt since October.  “They hardly issued anything last year,” Miller said at a
portfolio managers’ conference organized by  Bloomberg Link  in
New York. “There’s a lot of pent-up demand.”  California is  Standard & Poor’s  lowest-rated state, with a
grade of A-, the seventh-highest. Its credit outlook, negative
as recently as eight months ago, was raised to positive from
stable this week by S&P. The state is positioned for a higher
grade if revenue comes closer to projections in Brown’s budget,
the ratings company said.  Ten-year general-obligation bonds from California state and
local issuers yielded 2.79 percent yesterday, or  84 basis points 
more than AAA municipal debt, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It’s the smallest difference since 2008. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  May Narrow More  The yield gap between the state’s debt and top-rated bonds
may narrow to as little as 75 basis points, said Miller at
Wells, which had about $330 billion in  assets  as of Dec. 31.  The proceeds from the March sale will go toward refinancing
debt. California will also sell as much as $1 billion of cash-
flow notes Feb. 22.  The state is still struggling to cut expenses, Jamie Pagliocco, a municipal portfolio manager at Boston-based
Fidelity Investments, said at the conference.  The state collected $528 million less in taxes in January
than Brown estimated in his latest budget, Controller John Chiang said Feb. 10.  Eaton Vance Management is trying to sell its California
general-obligation debt before the sale on the view that they
will get cheaper, said Thomas Metzold, co-director of municipal
investments at the company.  Eaton Vance had about $185 billion in assets under
management as of Dec. 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;
William Glasgall in New York at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  