-- California Diesel Rises on Refinery Maintenance, Inventory Drop
-- B y   G e n e   L a v e r t y
-- 2012-02-16T23:46:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/california-diesel-rises-on-refinery-maintenance-inventory-drop.html
California-blend diesel in  Los
Angeles  jumped to the highest premium in a month to New York
heating oil futures amid planned maintenance at refineries and a
decline in inventories.  CARB diesel in  Los Angeles (DIEILCAD)  strengthened 1 cent to a premium
of 4.5 cents to Nymex heating oil futures, the highest level
since Jan. 12.  San Francisco  CARB diesel was unchanged at a
premium of 2.5 cents against futures.  ConocoPhillips’s Rodeo,  California , refinery may reduce
diesel output for about two and a half weeks during planned work
on a hydrogen plant. One of two hydrogen plants at the refinery
has been shut, Scott Hanson, a hazardous materials specialist
for Contra Costa County, said in an interview. Planned work on
the hydrogen unit is scheduled to last about six weeks, he said.  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  is performing maintenance at the  Martinez (TEMTCRUD) 
refinery in Northern California and  BP Plc (BP/)  will shut several
units at the  Carson (BPCRCRUD)  refinery in  Southern California  for work
next month, three people said Jan. 3. CARB diesel inventories
slipped 1.5 percent to 2.84 million barrels last week, the state
Energy Commission said yesterday.  The premium for California blend gasoline, or Carbob, in
 San Francisco (MOGSD85P)  fell 0.5 cents to 43 cents a gallon against
gasoline futures at 4:11 p.m. East Coast time, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in
 Portland, Oregon (MOGHD87P) , gained 12.5 cents to a premium of 8 cents
versus gasoline futures, the strongest level for the fuel since
Jan. 5.  Carbob for prompt delivery in  Los Angeles (MOGLDB85)  rose 4.04 cents
to $3.4071 a gallon, the highest level since May 3. The motor
fuel’s premium of 36 cents a gallon against gasoline futures
traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  was unchanged.  California-blend gasoline supplies dropped 3.6 percent to
6.19 million barrels last week from a week earlier, the state
Energy Commission said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gene Laverty in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  