-- Cameron Will Consider Giving Scotland Greater Powers Only After Referendum
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d   a n d   T i m   F a r r a n d
-- 2012-02-16T18:19:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/cameron-will-consider-giving-scotland-greater-powers-only-after-referendum.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said he will consider devolving more powers to Scotland if the
country’s voters reject independence in a plebiscite.  “When the referendum on independence is over, I am open to
looking at how the devolved settlement can be improved
further,” Cameron said in a speech in Edinburgh today, speaking
beneath the Scottish capital’s castle. “But that must be a
question for after the referendum, when Scotland has made its
choice about the fundamental question of independence.”  The Scottish government is open to the idea of having a
second question about increased powers short of independence on
the ballot paper, First Minister  Alex Salmond  said last month.
Polls show a minority of Scots support leaving the U.K. Salmond,
who won a parliamentary majority in last May’s election, wants
to hold the vote in the fall of 2014.  Cameron and Salmond disagreed after a meeting in Edinburgh
following the prime minister’s speech about whether they had got
nearer to settling disagreements over the details of the
referendum.  “We need to put a straightforward, simple, fair, and legal
question to the Scottish people,” Cameron said. “We need to
get on with that. And on those issues I’m afraid we haven’t made
much progress, which is frustrating.”  ‘Moved On’  “I think there is agreement things have moved on quite
substantially,” Salmond said. “The only substantive point of
disagreement is the position on one or two questions” on the
ballot.  Whether to quit the U.K. after more than 300 years is a
matter for the Scottish people, Cameron said in his speech.
Increasing the powers of its semi-autonomous government, on the
other hand, affects the whole of the U.K. and not just  Scotland ,
he said.  The choice for voters will be between separation and the
U.K., Cameron said. It would be “wrong to have mixed questions
on the ballot paper, it will muddle people.”  For the first time there is another option on the table for
Scots to consider, Salmond said. It was “imperative” the U.K.
spelled out the details of its proposals within months, he said.  “We need to know what it is,” Salmond said. “Where is
the beef? Give us the detail, give us the timescale.”  ‘Here Before’  Former Conservative Prime Minister Alec Douglas-Home urged
voters to reject proposals for Scottish devolution in 1979, on
the grounds his party would come up with something better.
 Margaret Thatcher  and  John Major  didn’t make any devolution
proposals while Cameron’s Conservatives were last in power
between 1979 and 1997.  “We have been here before,” Salmond said. “I don’t think
Scotland will be fooled twice.”  The referendum should be held sooner than Salmond’s
 Scottish National Party  has proposed, Cameron said. People
wanted to know the answer to questions such as which currency an
independent Scotland would use, how its defense would be
organized as well as how banks and financial services would be
regulated so that they could make the best possible decision, he
said.  “I don’t think it takes 2 1/2 years to answer them,” the
prime minister said.  The U.K. is in the process of giving the Scottish
government additional powers, including limited borrowing and
taxation prerogatives. Cameron declined to say what further
responsibilities he would be willing to devolve.  ‘Work Better’  “I understand why people in Scotland want to express their
identity as Scots strongly and to have greater control over
their lives,” said Cameron, whose paternal grandfather was
Scottish and whose maternal grandmother was Welsh. “I believe
in real devolution and want to make devolution work better.”  Scotland is stronger, safer, richer and fairer for being
part of the U.K., he said.  The chances of Scotland quitting the U.K. rose to 40
percent from 33 percent during Cameron’s speech according to
bookmaker William Hill Plc. The likelihood of Scotland being an
independent country by 2020 is 14 percent, it said.  Independence is essential for the Scottish economy to
thrive as it would give the country full control over fiscal
policy as well as allow Scotland to use oil revenues to set up
its own sovereign wealth fund, Salmond said in a lecture in
 London  yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Farrand in Edinburgh at 
 tfarrand@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net . 