-- Canadian Currency Strengthens From February’s Low on U.S. Economy, Greece
-- B y   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-02-16T22:22:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/canadian-currency-strengthens-as-risk-appetite-grows-on-greece-u-s-data.html
Canada’s dollar climbed from a
February low as risk appetite swelled on data showing
improvement in the  U.S. economy  and bets  Greece  will receive a
rescue package to avoid a default.  The currency erased losses after jobless-benefit claims in
the U.S., Canada’s biggest trade partner, unexpectedly slid to a
four-year low. It strengthened as stocks and commodities
advanced. Three euro-area officials said the  European Central
Bank  is swapping its Greek bonds for new ones, paving the way
for a private-sector swap that cuts Greece’s debt.  “The Canadian dollar moved higher after we saw a bit of
change in risk sentiment based on the positive jobless-claims
data,” said Rahim Madhavji, president and head trader at
Knightsbridge Foreign Exchange in Toronto. “The main issue in
the U.S. continues to be unemployment, and what’s good for the
U.S. is good for  Canada .”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, gained 0.3 percent to 99.66
cents per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It depreciated 0.5
percent earlier to C$1.0052, the weakest level since Jan. 31.
One Canadian dollar buys $1.0034.  Implied volatility for one-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus the greenback jumped to the highest level in
almost two weeks. It reached 8.61 percent, the most since Feb.
2, before trading at 8.13 percent, approaching the 10-month low
of 7.66 percent reached on Feb. 10. Implied volatility, which
traders quote and use to set option prices, signals the expected
pace of swings in the underlying currency. It averaged 10
percent over the past year.  Stock Correlation  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 1.1 percent after
slipping 0.2 percent earlier. The loonie tends to rise and fall
with stocks. It has a 60-day correlation coefficient of 0.83
with the  S&P 500 . A reading of 1 would indicate they move in
lockstep.  Crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, advanced, with March
futures increasing 0.5 percent to $102.34 a barrel in  New York .
They touched $102.69, a five-week high, after dropping 1 percent
earlier to $100.84.  The loonie weakened versus the euro for the first time this
week on speculation European governments are considering cutting
 interest rates  on emergency loans to Greece. It slipped 0.2
percent to C$1.3087 after appreciating 0.3 percent earlier.  The ECB is exchanging its Greek bonds to ensure it isn’t
forced to take losses in a debt restructuring, the three euro-
area officials said on condition of anonymity. An ECB spokesman
declined to comment. The move may be completed by Feb. 20, the
officials said, when euro-area finance ministers meet on a 130
billion-euro ($171 billion) aid package for Greece.  ‘Sign of Relief’  “The swap is a major sign of relief, as it really allows
Greece to buy more time,” Madhavji of Knightsbridge, said. “It
kicks the can forward, and that is positive for markets.”  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said
yesterday he was confident the needed decisions on the Greek
rescue will be made Feb. 20. A separate private-sector bond swap
may slice about 100 billion euros off Greece’s debt. Greece
faces a bond redemption on March 20, when the government must
come up with 14.5 billion euros or become the first country in
the euro’s 13-year history to default.  “There are a lot of rumors that they will put a plan
together and get through this, but until I see that in print
I’ll reserve judgment,” said Blake Jespersen, Toronto-based
director of foreign exchange at Bank of Montreal.  Jobless Claims  Canada’s dollar reversed losses against the greenback as
Labor Department data showed claims for  unemployment benefits  in
the U.S. decreased 13,000 in the week ended Feb. 11 to 348,000,
the fewest since March 2008. American housing starts climbed
more than forecast last month to an annual rate of 699,000,
Commerce Department figures showed.  “There has been a nice little pickup for the Canadian
dollar as markets are certainly more upbeat,” Bank of
Montreal’s Jespersen said. “The U.S. data is continuing to
surprise in many aspects.”  Factory  sales  in Canada rose for a second month in
December, advancing 0.6 percent. The figure trailed a 2 percent
increase forecast in a survey of economists by Bloomberg News.  Canadian  government bonds  fell, with the yield on the
benchmark  10-year note  rising two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 2.03 percent. The  five-year  security’s
yield climbed seven basis points to 1.44 percent. The government
sold C$3.5 billion ($3.5 billion) of five-year debt yesterday.  Bond Auction  Canada will auction C$400 million of real-return bonds on
Feb. 22, according to a statement on the Bank of Canada’s
website. The 1.5 percent inflation-linked securities mature in
December 2044.  Foreigners slowed their  net purchases  of Canadian
securities in December, led by bonds, as the annual total
declined from a record,  Statistics Canada  reported today.
Purchases of bonds fell to C$2.12 billion, from C$5.90 billion
in November. Total foreign net purchases of C$7.38 billion
trailed November’s revised total of C$14.6 billion.  The Canadian currency gained 0.5 percent over the past week
against nine developed-nation counterparts monitored by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The  U.S. dollar 
was little changed, while the euro declined 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Austen Sherman in New York at 
 asherman18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  