-- Canada December Manufacturing Sales Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-02-16T13:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/canada-december-manufacturing-sales-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada 's manufacturing shipments report for December
released by  Statistics Canada .  Manufacturing sales advanced 0.6% to $49.9 billion in
December, the fifth increase in six months. The
transportation equipment industry led the gain.  Sales increased in 12 of 21 industries representing
about two-thirds of Canadian manufacturing. The gains
occurred primarily in durable goods industries, where
sales rose 2.1%. Sales of non-durable goods fell 0.9%.  In terms of constant dollars, manufacturing sales rose
1.2%, representing an increase in the volume of
manufactured goods. This was the fifth increase in
constant dollar sales in six months.  Manufacturing sales advance  With December's increase, monthly sales for 7 of 21
manufacturing industries have reached or surpassed levels
recorded in October 2008, the onset of the recent economic
downturn. The largest of the seven industries includes
transportation equipment, food, petroleum and coal
products, and machinery manufacturing. Combined, these
four represented 51% of total manufacturing in December.  December's sales, at $49.9 billion, were just short of
the pre-downturn total of $50.2 billion in October 2008.  For 2011 as a whole, manufacturing sales amounted to
$571 billion, up 7.8% from 2010. The main contributors to
the annual increase included higher sales in the petroleum
and coal products, primary metal, machinery and
transportation equipment industries.  Motor vehicle industry records highest sales since
November 2007  Sales by  motor vehicle  manufacturers advanced 2.9% in
December to $4.3 billion, the highest monthly sales level
since November 2007. In addition, sales in the motor
vehicle parts industry rose 5.5% to $1.9 billion. The
transportation equipment industry as a whole had the
largest dollar gains of any industry, with a 3.7% increase
in sales to $8.5 billion. This was the seventh consecutive
monthly increase.  Plastics and rubber products sales increased 7.5% to
$2.1 billion, their highest level since August 2007. The
rise reflected higher sales volumes.  Greater sales volumes were entirely responsible for a
2.7% increase in the primary metal industry to $4.2
billion, the third consecutive monthly gain.  The overall sales increase was partly offset by a 5.6%
decline among petroleum and coal product manufacturers to
$6.9 billion. A portion of the decrease was the result of
a 3.7% decline in prices for petroleum and coal products,
as measured by the Industrial Product  Price Index .  Central Canada accounted for most of the increase  Manufacturing sales rose in four provinces in December.
Most of the sales increase was located in Central Canada.
Combined sales in Ontario and Quebec were up $741 million
while sales declined $445 million in the rest of Canada.
With the gains in December, Ontario,  Alberta , Newfoundland
and Labrador, and Saskatchewan surpassed their sales
levels recorded in October 2008.  In Ontario, sales rose 2.1% to $22.9 billion, the third
consecutive monthly increase and the highest level since
September 2008. The increase was largely the result of a
6.5% advance in the primary metal industry, a 5.5% gain in
the motor vehicle parts industry, and a 2.3% rise in the
motor vehicle industry. Gains in the machinery and
miscellaneous manufacturing industries also contributed to
Ontario's sales for December. A decline in production in
the aerospace product and parts industry offset a portion
of the provincial increase.  Sales in  Quebec  rose 2.3% to $12.0 billion, the fourth
increase in five months. A 17.9% increase in the
transportation equipment industry was behind a large
portion of the provincial growth. The plastics and rubber
products, machinery, and primary metal industries also
recorded sales increases. A 13.5% decline in sales
reported by petroleum and coal products manufacturers
partly offset the gains in Quebec.  In Alberta, sales declined 3.5% to $6.3 billion, mostly
as a result of lower sales in the machinery industry.
After a sales peak in November, the machinery industry
declined 23.4% to $776 million.  Sales fell 4.8% in  New Brunswick  and 10.0% in
Newfoundland and Labrador, reflecting declines reported in
the non-durable goods industries.  Inventory levels down  Inventory levels decreased 0.9% in December to $64.4
billion, the first decline after 14 months of increases.
Inventories declined in 14 of 21 industries, with non-
durable goods down 0.7% and durable goods down 1.0%.  Primary metal inventories declined 2.0% to $7.7
billion. In the  food industry , inventories decreased 2.3%,
owing in part to lower stocks in the grain and oilseed
milling industry.  The declines were partially offset by higher inventory
levels reported by motor vehicle, fabricated metal
product, and chemical manufacturers.  Inventories decline  The inventory-to-sales ratio fell to 1.29 in December
from 1.31 in November. The inventory-to-sales ratio is a
measure of the time, in months, that would be required to
exhaust inventories if sales were to remain at their
current level.  The inventory-to-sales ratio decreases  Unfilled orders decrease  Unfilled orders declined 1.6% to $60.8 billion in
December. The decrease was largely the result of declines
in the transportation equipment (-1.3%) and the primary
metal (-8.7%) industries.  In the transportation equipment industry, unfilled
orders were down 1.0% for aerospace product and parts and
2.4% for railroad rolling stock.  Unfilled orders decrease  New orders  New orders decreased 2.8% in December to $49.0 billion,
following a 4.2% gain in November. The decline in new
orders was concentrated in the aerospace product and parts
industry.  Note to readers  All data in this release are seasonally adjusted and
are expressed in current dollars unless otherwise
specified.  Preliminary data are provided for the current reference
month. Revised data, based on late responses, are updated
for the three previous months.  Non-durable goods industries include food, beverage and
tobacco products, textile mills, textile product mills,
clothing, leather and allied products, paper, printing and
related support activities, petroleum and coal products,
chemicals, and plastics and rubber products.  Durable goods industries include wood products, non-
metallic mineral products, primary metal, fabricated metal
products, machinery, computer and electronic products,
electrical equipment, appliances and components,
transportation equipment, furniture and related products
and miscellaneous manufacturing.  Production-based industries  For the  aerospace industry  and shipbuilding industries,
the value of production is used instead of sales of goods
manufactured. This value is calculated by adjusting
monthly sales of goods manufactured by the monthly change
in inventories of goods in process and finished products
manufactured.  Unfilled orders are a stock of orders that will
contribute to future sales assuming that the orders are
not cancelled.  New orders are those received whether sold in the
current month or not. New orders are measured as the sum
of sales for the current month plus the change in unfilled
orders from the previous month to the current month.  A research paper, Analysis in Brief: "An Overview of
the Lumber Industry in Canada, 2004 to 2010" (11-621-
M2011089, free), profiling the Canadian softwood lumber
industry is now available. The paper reviews the state of
the industry from 2004 to 2010 and examines key economic
variables such as sales, exports and employment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  