-- Canada December International Securities Transactions (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-02-16T13:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/canada-december-international-securities-transactions-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada's international transactions report for December
released by  Statistics Canada .  Foreign investment in Canadian securities slowed to
$7.4 billion in December, half the amount recorded in
November but still close to the average monthly investment
in 2011. Meanwhile, Canadians acquired $2.8 billion of
foreign securities in December, led by bonds.  Transactions in December closed a third straight year
of relatively robust non-resident investment in Canadian
securities at $95.6 billion, down from a high of $117.4
billion in 2010. In addition, the year 2011 marked the
highest annual Canadian investment in foreign securities
since 2007. This activity was well off the pace set from
2005 to 2007, a period that reflected the expansion of the
maple bond market.  Foreign portfolio investment in Canadian securities  Non-residents acquire Canadian debt instruments at a
slower pace  Foreign investment in Canadian bonds slowed to $2.1
billion in December. Secondary market acquisitions of
federal bonds with short-term maturities and provincial
bonds with long-term maturities led the inflows. This
activity was partially offset by retirements of Canadian
private corporate bonds, mainly held by US residents.
Canadian long-term  interest rates  fell by 19 basis points,
as a result, the differential between long- and short-term
rates reached the lowest level since August 2008. For the
year, foreign purchases of $42.9 billion of Canadian bonds
amounted to less than half the inflows recorded in 2010.  Non-residents placed $3.5 billion in Canadian money
market instruments in December, mainly in provincial
government and federal government enterprise paper.
Foreign investors increased their holdings of federal
Treasury bills for a sixth straight month, though December
marked the lowest such acquisition in this period. Foreign
investment in the Canadian money market intensified in the
second half of the year to a high of $32.0 billion in
2011. Over 80% of the investment was directed to federal
Treasury bills.  Foreign investment in Canadian stocks slows  Foreign investors purchased $1.7 billion of Canadian
equities in December, down from $3.1 billion in November.
Secondary market acquisitions by investors from the  United
Kingdom  led the buying in December. This was partially
offset by the retirement of Canadian stocks resulting from
merger and acquisition activity in the month.  Canadians further increase their holdings of foreign bonds  Canadian investors acquired $2.3 billion of foreign
long-term debt instruments in December. US  government
bonds  led foreign purchases over the month, making for the
first quarterly investment in these instruments since the
fourth quarter of 2009. Despite increased activity in the
fourth quarter, Canadians reduced their holdings of
foreign bonds for a fourth straight year in 2011.  Canadian investors removed $918 million from their
holdings of foreign money market instruments in December.
This was the largest monthly divestment in 2011 and was
driven by retirements of US government and corporate
financial paper. This divestment was partially offset by
acquisitions of corporate financial paper from  Australia .
US short-term interest rates held at 0.01% for a second
month.  Canadians continue to accumulate foreign equities  Canadian investors added $1.4 billion of foreign stocks
to their holdings in December, evenly split between US and
non-US corporate shares. Investment was focused on
technology and energy shares, as stock prices rose in most
major global markets in December. Canadian investors have
added foreign equities to their portfolios in every month
of 2011, for a total of $25.5 billion, which was almost
twice the amount invested in 2010.  Note to readers  All values in this release are net transactions unless
otherwise stated.  The data series on international security transactions
cover portfolio transactions in stocks, bonds and money
market instruments for both Canadian and foreign issues.  Stocks include common and preferred equities, as well
as warrants.  Debt securities include bonds and money market
instruments.  Bonds have an original term to maturity of more than
one year.  Money market instruments have an original term to
maturity of one year or less.  Government of  Canada  paper includes treasury bills and
US-dollar Canada bills.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  