-- Canada Pension Hires Ex-Goldman Sachs Banker Mark Machin as Asia Unit Head
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2012-02-17T07:30:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/canada-pension-is-said-to-appoint-ex-goldman-sachs-banker-machin-asia-head.html
Canada Pension Plan Investment
Board, the country’s second-biggest retirement fund, tapped a
veteran investment banker to head its Asia-Pacific unit as it
seeks to increase investments in the region.  Mark Machin, who stepped down as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s
vice-chairman for Asia-Pacific excluding  Japan  in December, will
become president of CPPIB  Asia  Inc. effective March 19, the
company said in an e-mailed statement today.  Machin, 45, joins Toronto-based Canada Pension as the
 retirement plan  is expanding its reach into  emerging markets 
with a focus on Asia and  Latin America . The fund had less than 9
percent of its C$152.8 billion in total assets invested in Asia
at the end of December, according to the statement.  “Our expectation is that our investments in Asia-Pacific
will grow disproportionate to the upside of the total fund,”
said Mark Wiseman, executive vice president at Canada Pension,
in an interview in Hong Kong today. “We have to be here. I
think we’re actually behind where we need to be.”  Canada Pension’s current level of investment in Asia is
“arguably underweight,” relative to size of the region’s
economies, Wiseman said.  Machin, who spent 20 years at Goldman Sachs and ran the New
York-based bank’s investment bank for six years, will be based
in  Hong Kong  in his new role, according to the statement.  Record Fundraising  Fundraising by private equity firms in Asia rose to a
record $53.8 billion last year, from $43.5 billion a year ago
according to the  Asia Venture Capital Association.  Canada
Pension has already committed capital to Asia-focused funds run
by Baring Private Equity Asia, Citic Capital, Hony Capital Ltd.,
and MBK Partners Ltd., according to its  website.   The fund will invest in local funds and also co-invest with
those funds, Wiseman said. Apart from private equity, Canada
Pension is broadening is investment in real estate and
infrastructure and its primary markets are China,  Australia ,
India and Japan, he said.  Machin’s appointment comes after several senior investment
bankers have left Goldman Sachs for the private equity industry
in Asia. TPG Capital hired former Goldman Sachs managing
director Steve Sun as a partner in  China  last year, and Permira
Advisers LLP hired Alan Chen, executive director of the bank’s
Asian Special Situations Group, as head of China, it said in
August.  Trained as Doctor  Richard Ong, who was Goldman Sachs’s co-head of Asia
investment banking with Machin, left in 2008 to join Hopu
Investment Management Co. a fund set up by Fang Fenglei, who ran
Goldman Sachs’s Chinese securities venture. Ong later started
his own fund called RRJ Capital.  Machin trained as a doctor before joining Goldman Sachs,
where he worked for 20 years until his departure. Canada
Pension, which opened its Asia office in Hong Kong in 2008, has
20 staff based in the city, according to the statement. The fund
may open its second Asian office in  India , Wiseman said.  Canada Pension also said today it also retained Vikram
Gandhi, a former Credit Suisse Group banker, to advising the
fund on investment opportunities in India.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mohammed Hadi at 
 mhadi1@bloomberg.net  