-- Cancer Should Be Covered by Funds for Sept. 11 Victims, Panel Chief Says
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-02-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/cancer-should-be-covered-by-funds-for-sept-11-victims-panel-chief-says.html
Cancer should be included among the
illnesses covered by U.S. funds for responders to the Sept. 11
World Trade Center attack, though it’s not clear which types of
the disease should qualify, the head of an advisory panel said.  Elizabeth Ward, chairwoman of a panel that will help decide
who has access to two special federal funds, spoke after a
hearing yesterday in  New York  in which about a dozen outraged
cancer patients linked their disease to the 2001 terrorist
attack that leveled the World Trade Center.  Many on the board “are in favor of listing at least some
cancers of some systems as conditions,” Ward said at the end of
a public hearing at the Jacob K. Javits federal building.
“Whatever opinion we come to, though, we have to define a
scientific rationale.”  It may be easier to explain how lung or esophageal cancers
affecting responders to the trade center attack could be caused
by inhaling burning building waste than, for example, to explain
a direct link with blood cancers, Ward said. Other cancers may
take longer to develop in the emergency personnel who responded
to attacks, and may not be obvious for several years, said  Ward ,
an epidemiologist and the  American Cancer Society ’s national
vice president for intramural research.  The panel’s decision may open access for cancer patients to
two funds, one set up to pay for health treatment and a second
that reimburses victims for non-medical losses. The funds were
created on Jan. 2, 2011, when President  Barack Obama  signed
legislation reactivating a program that operated from 2001 to
2003 to help victims, rescuers, clean-up crews and others
suffering from the attack and its aftermath. Cancer wasn’t
included as an ailment that qualified a person for compensation
from the  new funds .  No Doubts  Ward’s comments capped a day in which cancer victims said
they had no doubt their illnesses were tied to the time they
spent at Ground Zero immediately following the attack.  Bruce Edwards, 55, of Ronkonkoma, New York, was one of
eight communications workers who started right after the attacks
restoring power to get the New York Stock Exchange running by
Sept. 17. He was diagnosed with lymphoma at 50, the same age as
another man in his group who has already died of cancer, Edwards
testified at the hearing.  While the public hearing gave him hope, “it’s definitely
too late,” he said. It is “disheartening” to hear that the
committee needs evidence to prove his cancer is connected to
that experience, Edwards said in an interview.  “In 2001 we were in dire straits,” he said. “People from
every part of the country came here to help.”  Split Reactions  The cancer patients talked about the contrast between
politicians calling them heroes in public and denying them
funding for health care.  A man who had dreams of coaching college hockey testified
that he retired early because of his disease. A father of five
hoped to live to see his daughters walk down the aisle. Some
struggled with a hypothetical scenario -- if it happened again,
would they help?  Tom Fay, 55, of Wall Township,  New Jersey , said he would.
“As a person who loves his country with every ounce of blood in
my body, I’d do it again,” he said in an interview. “All I’m
asking for is some help from my country.”  A study released on Sept. 1 in the journal Lancet found a
19 percent higher risk for cancer among first responders to the
2001 attacks. That report spurred politicians, disease advocates
and cancer victims to urge that the law creating the funds be
changed to include the disease as a qualified ailment.  Occupational Safety Review  A review by the National Institute for Occupational Safety
and Health last year found there was too little evidence to
prove a definitive link.  Before yesterday’s hearing, Sheila Birnbaum, special master
of the $2.8 billion compensation fund that reimburses victims
for non-medical losses, said she’d cover cancer patients if the
committee decides they should be eligible for medical care. Such
a move, though, would spread both funds thinner, and cause the
money to run out more quickly, she said in an interview.  Fay, married with three grown children, lost his job after
he advised an employer he had been diagnosed with blood cancer,
he said in a telephone interview. The Jersey Shore University
Medical Center in Neptune, New Jersey, agreed to treat him even
though he didn’t have insurance, Fay said.  While Fay doesn’t know the total costs of the treatment, he
said he received the cancer drug Neulasta, which he was told
cost $5,000 a shot, once a day for 18 days. Neulasta, made by
 Amgen Inc. (AMGN) , is prescribed to lower risk of infection in patients
taking chemotherapy that suppresses the immune system. The drug
drew $3.56 billion in 2010 revenue for Amgen, the world’s
biggest biotechnology company, as its top seller.  Skin Cancer Test  Fay is now waiting for results from a biopsy taken Feb. 10
for possible skin cancer, he said.  He’s worried, he said, that the next time a disaster comes,
nobody will help because of what is happening to those who
responded on Sept. 11, 2001.  New York City council members Margaret Chin and Stephen
Levin also gathered with first responder groups on the steps of
 City Hall  before the public hearing to ask that cancer be added
to the compensation programs.  They won a concession from Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s
administration to release names of clean-up workers, so the
committee could determine whether a link exists between their
presence at the site and an incidence of cancer, according to a
statement from Levin’s office.  More Information  New York city officials dropped confidentiality concerns
and will provide Mount Sinai Medical Center with names of police
department workers who participated in the recovery and clean-up
operations once they receive permission from the individuals as
part of an agreement to release more health data on the attacks,
Deputy Mayor Cas Holloway said.  Bloomberg is the founder and majority shareholder of
Bloomberg LP.  Birnbaum said she has spent months telling responders with
cancer there isn’t enough evidence to link their disease to
their experience, and they aren’t eligible for the funds.  If cancer victims are added, “everyone would still get
paid, but they would get paid less than they were awarded,”
said Birnbaum, an attorney at  Skadden (1112L) , Arps, Slate, Meagher &
Flom LLP in New York. “And we all may run out of money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  