-- Carbon Set-Aside Option Endorsed by Europe Parliament Groups
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-02-16T11:15:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/carbon-set-aside-option-endorsed-by-europe-parliament-groups-1-.html
The European Parliament is poised to
signal support for the option of withholding some carbon permits
to support prices after political parties in the assembly
reached a compromise tied to draft energy legislation.  Parliament industry-committee members representing all the
parties proposed amending a planned energy-efficiency law by
saying that the European Commission should put forward, “if
appropriate,” measures that “may include to withhold the
necessary amount of allowances” from carbon auctions, according
to a draft obtained by Bloomberg News. The commission is the 27-
nation European Union’s regulatory arm.  “It’s a balanced compromise,” Peter Liese, a German
Christian Democratic member of the EU Parliament who helped
broker the accord, said in an interview today in Strasbourg,
 France . “There was agreement with representatives of all the
parties.”  EU carbon allowances for delivery in December erased
earlier losses and traded 0.4 percent up at 8.39 euros on the 
ICE Futures  Europe  exchange as of 11:13 a.m. in  London . The
contract earlier fell to as low as 8.1 euros a metric ton.  The Parliament’s industry committee is due to vote on Feb.
28 in Brussels on the amendment, which will then go to the full
EU assembly for approval. The proposal also will need the
support of EU governments when they vote on the energy-
efficiency legislation.  Cap-and-Trade Program  At stake is the price of CO2 in the world’s biggest cap-
and-trade program, which since its debut in 2005 has covered
more than 11,000 energy and manufacturing companies in Europe
and this year expanded to include airlines worldwide as well. EU
emission permits dropped to a four-year low last month because
of oversupply, triggering calls by environmental groups and
investors including  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  for the EU to
strengthen the system.  The EU Parliament’s environment committee in December
backed an amendment calling on the commission to set aside a
“significant number” of allowances and recommended the
industry committee follow suit. Carbon permits surged as much as
32 percent after the environment committee vote.  EU governments aren’t certain whether the draft energy
efficiency directive should refer to the option of withholding
permits from the carbon market, an EU official said on Feb. 13.  Draft Measure  Even if adopted, the amendment on withholding permits won’t
automatically lead to a set-aside of allowances. That would
require a separate draft measure to be presented by the
commission and backed by EU governments.  European CO2 allowances lost 47 percent from a year ago on
concern that new energy savings measures in the law the
parliament is currently debating will erode demand for permits
to discharge  greenhouse gases , further boosting oversupply.  The EU emissions trading system, or ETS, was valued at $120
billion last year. Analysts at Bloomberg New Energy Finance
predict that in the current trading period from 2008 to 2012 the
ETS will be oversupplied by around 1.1 billion metric tons,
worth 8.5 billion euros at today’s prices. This surplus may be
transferred into the next stage, or the so-called third phase,
from 2013 to 2020.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg, France at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net ;
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephen Voss  at   sev@bloomberg.net . 