-- Caterpillar’s MWM Sees Rise in Clean Engines Amid Nuclear Woes
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2012-02-16T17:38:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/caterpillar-s-mwm-sees-rise-in-clean-engines-amid-nuclear-woes.html
MWM GmbH, the German engine maker
bought last year by  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , said more customers are
looking for alternative-fuel engines as  Germany  winds down its
nuclear power.  Higher energy prices and supply shortages are leading
private, public and industrial sectors to search for clean,
decentralized ways to produce power, Willy Schumacher, managing
director of Mannheim-based MWM, said by phone. Decentralized
power is energy produced at the point of use, unlike power
generated from large, remote power stations.  “More and more customers and companies such as ours are
looking for decentralized power generation as substitutes for
older and more risky technology,” Schumacher said. “All the
discussions going on in  Europe  about the future of nuclear power
and countries such as Germany, which has already decided to
exit, mean that through this acquisition we will be very well
positioned to replace some of that power.”  Caterpillar, the largest maker of construction and mining
equipment, bought MWM in November for 580 million euros ($760
million). The Peoria, Illinois-based company expects to spend
about $2.6 billion this year on research and development, and
says more than half of its R&D costs the past few years have
been linked to reducing emissions. The company is developing
technologies to conform with U.S. and European  regulations  to
cut such emissions as nitrous oxide from non-road  diesel
engines .  “A substantial portion -- billions of dollars -- of
Caterpillar’s overall research and development investment in
recent years has been directed to the company’s largest product
development effort in its history: the development of
technologies to reduce criteria emissions,” said Rachel Potts,
a spokeswoman for Caterpillar.  Demand-Driven Market  No single technology will replace nuclear power, said MWM’s
Schumacher. Gas, low energy gas, biogas and coal mine methane
that can be used to produce both heat and power will play “a
major role,” he said. MWM’s customers include industrial
companies, utilities and independent power producers.  “It’s clearly a demand-driven market,” the director said.
“Government regulations and fiscal incentives are major reasons
for growth in the co-generation market.  ‘‘New emission-reduction technologies are likely to promote
our product and co-generation -- repowering programs of old
 power plants  are seen as a driver for us for the next decade and
also the emissions credits create new opportunities for our
business.’’  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 Ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg in London at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  