-- Stanford Operations Were Run by CFO, Not ‘Absent’ Boss, Manager Testifies
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-02-17T02:03:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/cfo-not-stanford-ran-the-firm-manager-testifies.html
R. Allen Stanford left daily
operating decisions to his finance chief, who volunteered to
“lay himself off” for a $650,000 lump-sum payout as regulators
were closing in on the company in February 2009, a former
manager told Stanford’s criminal fraud jury.  “We were in the midst of a crisis, and I told him it would
look strange if we lay off our global CFO,” Joan Stack, former
global human resources manager at  Stanford Financial Group ,
testified she told finance chief James M. Davis. “He was the
person I felt made the day-to-day decisions.”  Davis replied that he would “stay behind the scenes” and
continue running the firm, Stack told jurors in federal court in
Houston. In exchange for appearing to step aside, Davis asked
for an upfront payment of 65 percent of his 2009 salary, she
said.  Davis made this proposal “at a very fast-moving time”
when “cash flow problems” were causing Stanford’s firm to
cancel 2008 year-end bonuses and lay off half its employees,
Stack testified. “We were trying to get to a point where costs
would be reduced to the point the organization would survive,”
Stack said.  Jurors previously heard Davis testify that Stanford was the
mastermind and prime beneficiary of an alleged $7 billion
investment fraud centered on what the government claims were
bogus certificates of deposit at Antigua-based Stanford
International Bank Ltd.  Extravagant Lifestyle  Prosecutors accuse Stanford of skimming more than
$2 billion of investor deposits to finance an extravagant
lifestyle and risky ventures ranging from Caribbean airlines and
real estate development to cricket tournaments. Investors were
told their funds were kept in safe, liquid assets rather than
speculative ventures.  Davis pleaded guilty to his role in the alleged scheme and
testified as a government witness in the trial, now in its
fourth week. “Follow the money,” Davis told jurors, pointing
across the courtroom at Stanford.  Stanford, 61, denies wrongdoing in connection with the
alleged investment fraud. If convicted of the most serious
charges against him, he faces as long as 20 years in prison. He
has been jailed as a flight risk since being indicted in June
2009.  Stanford Memo  Stack told jurors that a Stanford memo to employees, sent
several days before the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
seized the company on suspicion of fraud, was done partly at her
request. Prosecutors told jurors that the message, which tried
to reassure staff the offshore bank remained strong, is the
basis of one of Stanford’s fraud counts.  “I told him, ‘People need to hear from you,’” Stack said.
“A lot of people were telling him that. He wasn’t visible. He
wasn’t responding. We told him people are scared, and they need
to hear from a leader.”  At the time the memo was sent, Stack said, Stanford was
often absent and difficult to reach.  “Mr. Stanford would be absent for a month, five or six
weeks,” she said. “Then suddenly he’d come in and get hyper-
focused on some project. Then he’d just disappear for a few more
weeks.”  Promoting Cricket  Stack said he appeared more focused on promoting cricket
and building a high-end island resort than on running his
financial services empire.  “He was very excited, almost like a kid at Christmas,”
when discussing the island resort project, she said.  Stack testified that Davis and Laura Pendergest Holt,
Stanford’s investment chief, routinely hired unqualified
relatives and fellow church members to staff most positions in
the Memphis, Tennessee, research division that oversaw the
bank’s multibillion-dollar investment portfolio.  “They were family members who had no experience in doing
what we’d hired them to do,” she said.  Earlier witnesses told jurors that Davis hired one of his
farm hands to analyze commodities and his preacher to advise the
company on Middle Eastern affairs. Holt also invested about
$2 million of the bank’s portfolio in a hedge fund run by her
husband, a former personal trainer.  Broken Laptops  Prosecutors have said Stanford wasn’t an absentee boss and
kept in close touch electronically with executives while he
traveled.  Sohil Merchant, Stanford’s former information technology
manager, told jurors under prosecutors’ questioning that he
replaced the financier’s personal laptop computer 20 to 30 times
from 2005 to 2008. Merchant said the financier broke his
personal laptops so regularly that the technology department
maintained a standing replacement order.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Gregg Costa asked Merchant if
Stanford destroyed his laptop “through physical abuse, such as
dropping it in the water, throwing it against a wall.” Merchant
said that was his understanding. He said he sometimes delivered
the replacements on one of Stanford’s private jets.  Jurors watched much of a 30-minute promotional video
Stanford created to promote his planned ultra-luxury resort,
which he called Islands Club. Giselle James, the Stanford
employee who marketed the project, testified the resort was
intended for vacationers who could pay a $50 million initiation
fee and $15 million in annual dues for access to 30 villas
planned for a private island off Antigua’s coast.  Islands Club  Jurors, watching the video without any sound, saw footage
of Antigua’s lush foliage and pristine beaches intermingled with
interviews of New York-based architects who had worked on the
project and Antiguan celebrities, including several cricket
stars. Prosecutors requested that the sound be turned off to
avoid improper influence on the jury.  James testified Stanford had constructed yacht-docking
facilities, desalinization plants, a private airstrip and
hangar, refueling facilities and other infrastructure to support
his luxury resort. James said a marine research facility was
also part of the planned development.  “The prosecution said it was just a dream, but this was
real bricks and mortar, wasn’t it?” Robert Scardino, Stanford’s
lawyer, asked James.  “I walked there,” James testified. “I saw it.”  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09-cv-00298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas ( Dallas ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 