-- Chelsea May Offer $35 Million for Fiorentina Striker Jovetic: Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-02-16T10:35:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/chelsea-may-offer-35-million-for-fiorentina-striker-jovetic-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Chelsea Chasing Jovetic  Chelsea may put a 22 million pound ($35 million) bid in for
Fiorentina striker Stevan Jovetic, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  The Serb has scored 23 goals in the last 21 games for the
Italian side, after coming back from a knee injury last year.  The London club is also interested in signing CSKA Moscow
goalkeeper Igor Akinfeev, the  Daily Mail  reported. The Russian
is also being watched by  Manchester United , the paper said.  Hiddink’s Mega-Offer  Russian club Anzhi Makhachkala has offered former Holland
and Chelsea manager Guus Hiddink 8.3 million pounds a year to
become their new coach, the  Daily Telegraph  reported.  Chelsea wanted to hire Hiddink on a temporary basis should
current manager Andre Villas-Boas be  fired, the paper said.  Liverpool’s Aurelio to Leave?  Fabio Aurelio may leave Liverpool this summer because he
will out of contract and hasn’t been offered a new deal,
 Liverpool Echo  reported.  The 32-year-old left-back from Brazil, who has struggled
with injuries during his six years at Anfield, may return to
 South America  to finish his career.  Warnock to Huddersfield?  Huddersfield wants  Neil Warnock  to return to Huddersfield
after the club sacked Lee Clark, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Warnock, who was sacked by Queens Park Rangers at the start
of the year, may be in charge of Huddersfield “within a day or
two,” the paper said. Warnock also led Huddersfield from 1993
to 1995.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh on the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  