-- China 2012 Plan May Target Growth Below 8%, State Economist Fan Predicts
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-16T08:41:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/china-may-set-lowest-growth-target-since-2004-government-economist-says.html
China  may set its lowest annual
growth target in eight years as authorities place less emphasis
on the pace of expansion and the global economy remains weak,
 Fan Jianping , chief economist at the government-run State
Information Center, said.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  may announce a 7 percent or 7.5 percent
target for economic growth this year at the annual National
People’s Congress meetings that convene in March, Fan said in an
interview today. The last time China set a growth target below 8
percent was in 2004, when the goal was 7 percent.  “A lower target will act as a guidance for local
authorities to not focus on chasing speed,” said Fan, who is
head of the Economic Forecasting Department at the center which
is controlled by China’s top  economic planning agency . “Growth
will slow because the world outlook remains weak while a lot of
things also need to be done domestically in terms of economic
rebalancing,” he said.  Average annual growth of 10 percent in the past three
decades that transformed China into the world’s second-largest
economy also made it the world’s biggest polluter and spurred a
widening income gap. Premier Wen last year unveiled a five-year
plan for the period through 2015 that targeted annual expansion
of 7 percent and said the government’s emphasis would be on
ensuring the “quality and benefits” of growth.  Global Economy  The uncertain outlook for the global economy will also lead
China’s central bank to keep policies flexible, Fan said. The
People’s Bank of China hasn’t set a target for money supply
growth this year because it is difficult to forecast what the
flow of foreign capital may be like, he said.  Fan also said he doesn’t expect the central bank to lower
the  reserve requirement ratio  for commercial lenders in the
first quarter. The monetary authority will more likely rely on
open market operations to adjust liquidity, Fan said, referring
to central bank purchases and sales of bills to increase or
decrease the amount of money in the banking system.  A cut in  interest rates  is “not very likely” this year
because real deposit rates continue to be negative, he said.
China’s benchmark one-year deposit rate has lagged behind
inflation for two years.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  