-- China Allows Argentine Corn Imports, May Rival U.S. Supply
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-16T09:43:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/china-allows-argentine-corn-imports-may-rival-u-s-supply-2-.html
Argentina , the world's second-biggest
corn exporter, obtained a phytosanitary agreement allowing it to 
ship corn to  China , the government said, potentially offering an
alternative to U.S. supplies.  China, the second-largest corn user, may buy 4 million
metric tons in year ending Sept. 30, according to the China
National Grain & Oils Information Center. The country purchased
1.75 million tons in 2011,  customs  data show. Drought in
Argentina will limit its ability to supply grain this year, said
Li Qiang, managing director, Shanghai JC Intelligence Co.  Growing cities and rising incomes may almost double China’s
corn imports to a record 7 million tons in 2012-2013, Rabobank
International said Dec. 5. The agreement, after years of
negotiations, would give corn from Argentina access to China for
the first time in more than 10 years, said Li from  Shanghai .  The accord “is good for China’s long-term trade paradigm,
as it gives China an alternative supplier,” said Li.  Trade relations deteriorated in 2010 when China, irked by
antidumping charges on products ranging from steel pipes to
kitchen equipment, ordered traders to stop buying soybean oil
from Argentina, the biggest supplier.  Relations warmed after exchanges including a trip by
President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  to Beijing and visits
to  Buenos Aires  by Chinese ministers. Argentine Vice Minister of
Agriculture Lorenzo Basso said in November he expected China to
issue a quarantine permit of plant health in a month.  The U.S. Department of Agriculture cut Argentina’s corn
export forecast by 4.5 million tons to 14 million tons on Feb. 9,
and said output may drop by 4 million tons to 22 million tons.  China last year harvested a record amount of corn and the
supply has weighed on domestic prices, the China National Grain
& Oils Information Center said yesterday.  --Dale Crofts, William Bi. Editors:  Richard Dobson , James Poole  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net 
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Dobson at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  