-- China’s Xi Warms Up for Lakers Basketball Game by Touring Los Angeles Port
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-02-17T04:56:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/china-s-xi-tours-los-angeles-shipping-hub.html
China ’s Vice President  Xi Jinping ,
the presumed next leader of the world’s most populous nation,
takes in a  Los Angeles  Lakers game today after a tour yesterday
of the city’s port.  “Having heard that this is an environmentally friendly,
green port, this is a great thing,” Xi, 58, said yesterday at
the Port of Los Angeles. “What I see here is a good foundation
for U.S.-China economic and trade cooperation.”  Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa and  California 
Governor Jerry Brown joined Xi at the port which, along with the
neighboring Port of Long Beach, handles the highest volume of
cargo arriving from China in the U.S. The port boasts of being
the cleanest in the U.S. and possibly the world, based in part
on a system for supplying electricity to ships that makes it
unnecessary to run their own generators while docked.  The visit to the shipping hub underscored the importance of
the trading relationship of the world’s two largest economies
and its ability to boost growth in the most-populous American
state. China is the second-biggest U.S. trading partner, and
two-way commerce rose 10 percent last year to $503.2 billion.  Xi yesterday attended a banquet in Los Angeles with the
city’s Chinese-American business community. Today he is set to
speak at a business conference, tour a school with Vice
President  Joe Biden , and attend the Lakers basketball game with
Villaraigosa.  Trade Agenda  Xi arrived yesterday after stops this week in  Washington  to
meet with President Barack Obama and in  Iowa , and trade has
dominated his agenda. Obama told him the yuan remains
undervalued and Chinese officials signed $4.3 billion worth of
deals to buy soybeans.  Li Shaode, chairman of China Shipping (Group) Co., the
nation’s second-largest shipping line, accompanied Xi and the
California officials for a tour of the company’s cargo terminal.
China Shipping is currently doubling the size of its Los Angeles
facility to 142 acres as part of a $121 million expansion, due
for completion in 2014.  Brown also touted California’s alternative energy
technologies. “We’re more advanced than Washington,” he said.  DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA)  may announce a joint venture
in China during Xi’s visit, and Los Angeles plans to announce
expanded tourism and trade deals with the country, according to
Villaraigosa’s office.  Villaraigosa, who met Xi in China and invited him to Los
Angeles, said the Chinese leader’s first words to him today
were, “I kept my promise. I’m here.”  Xi is an NBA fan and especially of Kobe Bryant, the Lakers
guard, the mayor said.  After leaving Los Angeles, Xi will fly to Ireland for an
official visit. He then travels to  Turkey  to meet with Prime
Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan in Ankara on Feb. 21 before
returning to China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  