-- China Foreign Investment Outlook ‘Grim’ as Spending Falls for Third Month
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-16T05:56:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/china-s-foreign-direct-investment-falls-for-third-month-on-global-slowdown.html
China’s commerce ministry said the
outlook for foreign investment and trade is “grim,” after
slowing economic growth and  Europe ’s debt crisis spurred the
third monthly decline in spending by overseas companies.  Foreign direct investment in China fell 0.3 percent in
January from a year earlier to $9.997 billion, the  Ministry of
Commerce  said today. Exports last month fell for the first time
in more than two years, a Feb. 10 customs bureau report showed.  The drop in investment adds to drags on growth in the
world’s second-biggest economy from slumping home sales and
slowing output gains as Premier  Wen Jiabao  sustains curbs on
real estate. The government may extend a monetary policy pause
as it assesses whether manufacturing and job gains in the U.S.
lead to a trade rebound and inflation moderates after an
unexpected acceleration last month.  “Wen needs to ease policies to support growth and there’s
some evidence of that from the relaxation in curbs on local
government financing vehicles and lending,” said Shen Jianguang, chief economist for Greater  China  at Mizuho
Securities Asia Ltd. “Developed economies are holding up better
than expected, judging by recent data, and that may dilute the
scale of the easing.”  Shen estimates the central bank will cut  reserve
requirements  before the start of the annual session of the
National People’s Congress next month and forecasts a total of
four reductions this year.  Global ‘Uncertainty’  The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index dropped 0.5 percent
at 1:47 p.m. Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards fell 0.1
percent to 6.2858 per dollar, a 0.2 percent premium to the
onshore spot rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Uncertainty and instability in the world economy is
increasing, the pace of international industrial restructuring
is slowing,” Shen Danyang, the ministry’s spokesman said at a
regular briefing today. “Slack external demand, rising
operating costs and funding difficulties faced by some
companies” will put increasing pressure on foreign investment,
he said.  The People’s Bank of China lowered the amount of deposits
banks must set aside as reserves in December, the first
reduction since 2008, to encourage lending and support growth.
It hasn’t moved since, defying analyst estimates for another cut
before the Chinese New Year holiday last month.  Capital Outflows  December’s reduction “was intended to stabilize liquidity
conditions in China’s banking system,” said Yao Wei, a Hong
Kong-based economist at Societe Generale SA, as banks’ foreign-
currency positions declined and foreign-exchange reserves
dropped, indicating capital outflows. Monetary easing is likely
to be “cautious” in the “near term” due to concerns over
inflation and financial stability, she said in a note yesterday.  The  PBOC (PBCZ)  has used and will make more use of so-called
differentiated reserve ratios, according to its quarterly
monetary policy report issued yesterday, referring to a
mechanism where individual lenders hold different percentages of
deposits as reserves according to their capital adequacy levels
and lending growth.  This indicates “policy has been eased more than the market
observed,” Zhang Zhiwei, chief China economist at Nomura
Holdings Inc. said in a report dated yesterday. “This explains
why money market rates dropped without an official reserve-
requirement ratio cut in the past two months.”  The published ratio for the nation’s largest banks is 21
percent after December’s 50 basis-point cut. Zhang said the
probability of another cut in February has dropped below 50
percent.  Bets Resume  Capital flows into China have rebounded this year, the
central bank said yesterday, which may bolster the case for 
officials refraining from any immediate cuts in required 
reserves.  January’s trade surplus surged to the highest in six months
and bets for yuan appreciation indicated by non-deliverable
forwards contracts have resumed after pricing in depreciation
from mid November to early January.  Foreign investment in China had its first decline since
2009 in November and the drop deepened to 12.7 percent in
December. Spending by companies in the European Union fell 42.5
percent in January from a year earlier to $452 million while
investment from U.S. businesses rose 29 percent, the ministry
said today.  More U.S. companies plan to increase their investment in
China this year, according to a survey from the American Chamber
of Commerce in  Shanghai  released yesterday. Seventy-seven
percent of respondents intend to boost spending, compared with
72 percent in 2011, the chamber said.  Hiring Difficulties  Even so, companies are less confident about their business
prospects in China amid rising costs, difficulty in hiring and
retaining skilled labor and intensifying competition, according
to the survey. Businesses are also finding it harder to generate
higher profitability, it said.  Changes to the nation’s policies on overseas funding for
some industries may also weigh on spending this year. China will
stop encouraging foreign investment in industries including
automobile manufacturing while opening other areas such as
medical services, the  National Development and Reform
Commission , the nation’s top economic planning agency, and the
commerce ministry said in December. The new rules took effect
last month.  Companies including  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and Salvatore Ferragamo
SpA are still expanding in China, where the  International
Monetary Fund  estimates economic growth will be more than four
times faster than the U.S. this year.  Volkswagen Expands  The average disposable income of urban households rose 14
percent last year, government data show.  Ferragamo, the Italian luxury-goods maker, plans to enter
as many as eight new Chinese cities over the next three to five
years, Chief Executive Officer  Michele Norsa  said in an
interview in Shanghai on Jan. 19.  Volkswagen plans to add a seventh plant in China as it
expands production capacity to 3 million vehicles a year, the
Wolfsburg, Germany-based carmaker said last month. The factory
in the eastern city of Ningbo will have the capacity to assemble
300,000 units when it’s completed by 2014, the company said.  --Zheng Lifei. Editors: Nerys Avery, Lily Nonomiya  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at   lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  