-- China Solar Silicon Production Curbed 30% to Lift Prices: Energy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-16T08:32:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/china-solar-silicon-production-curbed-30-to-lift-prices-energy.html
China ’s polysilicon industry, the
biggest supplier to solar-panel manufacturers worldwide, has
idled almost one-third of production and may keep the plants
closed until prices recover from a 60 percent plunge.  The price tumble spurred the smallest producers including
units of  Baoding Tianwei Baobian Electric Co. (600550)  and Dongfang
Electric Corp. to halt plants, according to Xie Chen, an analyst
from the  China Nonferrous Metals Industrial Association , a trade
group that advises the government. China has about 45 percent of
global production capacity to purify silicon into polysilicon.  The suspensions may be short-lived because the average spot
 price  for the most expensive ingredient in making solar panels
rose 9 percent since mid-December from a decade low. A recovery
would boost margins for the biggest makers such as  GCL-Poly
Energy Holdings Ltd. (3800) , China’s largest, and Hemlock Semiconductor
Corp. of the U.S., which is No. 1 in the world by capacity.  “The freeze in production won’t last too long,” Xie said
in an interview. “Many companies have said they will return to
manufacturing if prices rise to $47 a kilogram” from the
current level of about $28.80.  Xie forecast prices will jump to $40 to $50 a kilogram this
year. That’s enough to prompt a return to production in the
first half of most of the halted plants, which he estimated were
about 30 percent of the total. Xie’s view was shared by Lian
Rui, a senior analyst in Beijing for New York-based research
company Solarbuzz.  Price Forecasts  Polysilicon will average about $30 this year, and companies
including the units of Baoding Tianwei and Dongfang Electric
will probably resume production as early as May, Lian said in an
interview. Bloomberg New Energy Finance has forecast polysilicon
average spot prices to reach $25 per kilogram this year.  Two phone calls placed to Gong Dan, spokesman for Dongfang
Electric, and an e-mail sent to Yin Xiaonan, Baoding Tianwei’s
spokesman, weren’t answered.  The rebound from polysilicon’s 10-year low of $26.31 a
kilogram in mid-December coincides with increased interest by
China to install photovoltaic devices on its own soil.  Chinese producers will double the number of panels that
will be installed this year from the 2.2 gigawatts erected in
the country in 2011, according to forecasts from manufacturers
 Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP)  and  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  That would
absorb some of the industry’s excess inventory, which led to the
drop in prices and profits.  Demand for solar products is recovering and is expected to
shift from  Europe  to Asian and U.S. markets,  Renewable Energy
Corp. ASA (REC) , a Sandvika, Norway-based maker of polysilicon, said
in its earnings presentation Feb. 8.  ‘Suck up Supply’  The increase in panel demand in China “sucks up some of
the excess supply,”  Pavel Molchanov , an analyst for Raymond
James & Associates Inc. in Houston, said by e-mail on Feb. 9.  The expectation that China will increase installations this
year has led some solar companies to keep plants running. GCL-
Poly,  LDK Solar Co. (LDK)  and  Asia Silicon (Qinghai) Co.  have
continued to operate their plants, according to Xie. His
association acts as a conduit between the Chinese government and
solar companies, advising both ministers and executives.  Xinyu, China-based LDK Solar said in November that it plans
to triple its capacity and make 55,000 tons of polysilicon a
year by 2014. GCL-Poly more than doubled capacity last year to
46,000 tons.  Korea ’s  OCI Co. (010060)  is building a plant capable of
making 24,000 tons of the material annually in Saemangeum.  Jessy Fang, a spokeswoman of GCL-Poly in  Hong Kong ,
declined to comment. Two calls to Li Longji, an acting director
for LDK’s public relations department, weren’t answered.  Smaller Companies  It is the smaller companies that have struggled and may
continue to do so, said Lian of Solarbuzz.  Leshan Ledian Tianwei Silicon Science & Technology Co. and
 Xinguang Silicon , units of Baoding Tianwei, halted production
last year to reduce losses and operating costs. Dongfang
Electric Emei Semiconductor Material Co., a unit of  Dongfang
Electric Corp. (1072) , also stopped manufacturing.  Zhejiang Xiecheng Silicon Industry Co.  filed for bankruptcy
in December, the first collapse of a solar company in China.  “Prices may be stuck near $30 a kilogram for a year or
two, but this may be enough for the bigger companies like LDK
and GCL to continue with production,” Lian said. It’s unlikely
that the larger companies will seek to acquire those that are
struggling, he said. “Buying a company that can’t operate
efficiently is costlier than expanding organically,” he said.  Full Capacity  Daqo New Energy Corp., the nation’s fourth-largest
polysilicon producer, can produce polysilicon at a cost of $30 a
kilogram and is operating at full capacity, said Kevin He, its
investor relations manager.  Companies can maintain operation at this price, “but it’s
hard to make profits,” he said. The Wanzhou, Chongqing-based
company last year started building a 3,000-ton plant to increase
capacity by as much as 70 percent.  The top five polysilicon producers including Hemlock and
 Germany ’s  Wacker Chemie AG (WCH) , more than doubled output in 2010
from 2008, data from New Energy Finance show. The decline in the
price of the raw material has been steeper than the 47 percent
decrease for panels last year because polysilicon plants have
higher operating costs, particularly for electricity.  “Power prices account for a substantial portion of the
cost of a polysilicon plant,” said Solarbuzz’s Lian. Prices of
electricity are higher in some regions where factories are
located, including the eastern coastal provinces such as
Zhejiang where Zhejiang Xiecheng Silicon Industry’s plant is
based, Lian said.  Editors: Baldave Singh,  Todd White   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  