-- China May Become World’s Biggest Gold User, Beating India
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-16T09:06:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/china-to-surpass-india-as-biggest-gold-market-this-year-council-predicts.html
China , the world’s largest consumer
of energy and base metals, is set to displace India this year as
the biggest gold user on an annual basis as surging incomes
drive increased demand for jewelry and investments.  Demand in China jumped 20 percent to 769.8 metric tons in
2011, while consumption in India fell 7 percent to 933.4 tons,
according to a report from the producer-funded  World Gold
Council  today. “It is likely that China will emerge as the
largest gold market in the world for the first time in 2012,”
said Marcus Grubb, managing director of investment.  China’s economic growth has lifted the nation’s consumption
of everything from soybeans to copper, while boosting incomes in 
the world’s most populous country. Gold has rallied for 11 years
on rising investment and jewelry demand, led by consumers in 
 Asia , and increased central-bank buying. China is also the
world’s biggest gold producer.  “Gold will be attractive as a luxury good, and certainly
China has made it clear that it likes  luxury goods ,” said
Jeremy Friesen, Hong Kong-based commodity strategist at  Societe
Generale  SA. “There’s a lot of pent-up demand.”  Bullion for immediate delivery traded at $1,718.57 an ounce
at 4:13 p.m. in  Shanghai , 25 percent higher than a year earlier.
The precious metal reached at an all-time high of $1,921.15 last
September as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis boosted demand.  On a quarterly basis, China was already the top consumer in
the three months to Dec. 31, with demand at 190.9 tons compared
with  India ’s 173 tons, the council said. Jewelry demand in China
rose every quarter last year, and the nation was the biggest
such market worldwide in the second half, the group said.  Bars and Coins  Demand in China is climbing as investors seek to protect of
their wealth from  inflation  of more than 4 percent, and after
the government clamped down on property investment last year,
Liu Xu, analyst at Capital Futures Co., said from Beijing. Stock
markets have been lackluster, Liu said.  “The big pool of savings is trying to seek investments,
not necessarily for profit, but for preserving value,” Liu said.
“In that sense, gold has been doing a pretty decent job in the
past 11 years in Chinese investors’ minds.”  China has kept its benchmark lending rate at about a three-
year high to slow inflation, which was 4.5 percent last month,
compared with the 4 percent estimate in a Bloomberg News survey
of economists.  Gold imports from  Hong Kong  surged to a record 431 tons
last year from 119 tons in 2010, according to the Census and
Statistics Department of the Hong Kong government.  Chinese investors bought 258.9 tons of gold bars and coins
last year, 38 percent more than a year earlier, as gold-jewelry
demand gained 13 percent to 510.9 tons, the council’s report
said. Council members represent 60 percent of global output.  “India and China have grown both in population and in
wealth, and the amount of potential demand remains very
strong,” said Friesen at Societe Generale. Sales in China may
be fairly resilient on the consumption side, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net ;
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  