-- China Says Next World Bank Chief Should Be Chosen Based on Merit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-16T08:33:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/china-says-next-world-bank-chief-should-be-chosen-based-on-merit.html
China  called for the next  World Bank 
chief to be picked based on merit, as current President  Robert Zoellick  plans to vacate the post by tradition held by a U.S.
citizen.  The next leader should be selected “based on the merit
principle and open competition,” Foreign Ministry spokesman Liu Weimin said at a briefing in Beijing today. Liu was responding
to a question on whether the next head should be from a
developing nation. Zoellick’s term ends in June.  China’s call echoes statements from leaders of emerging
nations who say it’s time for the American tradition of heading
the lender to change, amid a U.S. pledge to offer a candidate in
the coming weeks. Similar comments about the European lock on
International Monetary Fund leadership last year proved no bar
to France’s  Christine Lagarde  taking that post.  U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and former White
House economic adviser  Lawrence Summers  are two leading
candidates to succeed Zoellick, said two people familiar with
Obama administration discussions.  Brazil’s finance minister,  Guido Mantega , told reporters
that there’s “no reason for the principal leader to come from a
specific country.” Mexican central bank Governor Agustin Carstens, speaking in Mexico City, echoed that sentiment, saying
the World Bank chief should be selected by merit, not pre-
arranged rules.  Nominations for president of the Washington-based
development bank are subject to approval by its executive board.
The bank made $57 billion in loans in the last fiscal year.  Zoellick during his term had worked to “promote global
poverty alleviation” and “pushed for reform of the  World
Bank ’s governance structure,” Liu told reporters today. He
“attaches great importance to World Bank cooperation with
China,” Liu said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  