-- Chrysler Pulls Application for U.S. Loans as Carmaker’s Financials Improve
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-02-16T23:33:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/chrysler-withdraws-application-to-obtain-loans-from-u-s-energy-department.html
Chrysler Group LLC withdrew its
application for U.S. Energy Department loans after the
government tightened its lending standards and the company’s
financial standing improved.  Chrysler “remains confident in its strategy to bring
competitive, fuel-efficient vehicles and technologies to market
on schedule,” the  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based company said
yesterday in a statement. The decision won’t impact Chrysler’s
ability to achieve its financial targets, the company said.  Sergio Marchionne , chief executive officer of Chrysler and
majority-owner Fiat SpA, told reporters Feb. 4 that the
automaker was seeking less than $3.5 billion in loans from the
government’s Section 136 program, which encourages production of
fuel-efficient vehicles. He said the department’s due diligence
process was reflecting “some of the deals they’ve done,”
without making specific mention of loan recipients such as
Solyndra LLC that have filed for  bankruptcy protection .  “Sergio lost patience,” Richard Hilgert, a Chicago-based
analyst for Morningstar Equity Research, said in a phone
interview. “The company is now on solid financial ground and
really no longer needs to have the DOE loans. They would have
been at very attractive rates, but the market has very low
 interest rates  right now and they could probably borrow at very
attractive rates without these loans.”  Profit Forecast  Chrysler, which is 58.5 percent owned by Turin-based Fiat,
forecast on Feb. 1 that earnings may double this year after
reporting its first full-year profit since exiting bankruptcy in
2009. The company earned $734 million in 2011 excluding costs
associated with paying back the U.S. and Canadian government
loans.  Marchionne plans to introduce technology such as natural-
gas powered vehicles in the U.S. to help meet 2025 regulatory
standards that call for the average fuel economy to rise to 54.5
miles per gallon. The automaker expects to begin selling an
electric version of the  Fiat (F)  500 small car by early next year.  “While we were continuing to work with Chrysler to come to
an agreement, we are pleased that they are capable of achieving
their business goals without department support,”  Damien LaVera , an Energy Department spokesman, said yesterday in an e-
mail. “The company’s decision to move forward without this loan
reflects the tremendous financial turnaround that Chrysler and
its workers have achieved.”  Ener1, Solyndra Failures  Ener1 Inc. (HEVV) , the maker of batteries for electric cars whose
subsidiary received a $118 million Energy Department grant, in
January filed for bankruptcy protection after defaulting on bond
debt amid Asian competition. Ener1’s bankruptcy followed the
failure of at least two U.S. government-backed renewable energy
companies, the solar-panel maker Solyndra and energy-storage
company Beacon Power Corp.  Ford Motor Co., the second-largest U.S. automaker, received
$5.9 billion of Energy Department loans in June 2009. Nissan
Motor Co. borrowed $1.6 billion, and Tesla Motors Inc. was
loaned $495 million at that time. General Motors Co., which also
emerged from bankruptcy in 2009, withdrew its application for
$14.4 billion in loans in January 2011.  Marchionne signaled at the North American International
Auto Show in  Detroit  in January that Chrysler might withdraw its
request for loans if the amount made available by the government
was “too restrictive.” Borrowing from the U.S. likely would
impair Chrysler’s ability to “refinance itself” for the term
of the loans, he said.  The U.S. Treasury Department and Canadian government, which
backed Chrysler’s bankruptcy, exited their holdings in the
company in July when Fiat paid $625 million to boost its stake
to 53.5 percent on a fully diluted basis. Fiat increased its
ownership to 58.5 percent in January after a commitment to build
a 40-mpg rated Dodge Dart compact car in Belvidere,  Illinois .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  