-- Citigroup Whistle-Blower Says Bank’s ‘Brute Force’ Hid Bad Loans From U.S.
-- B y   B o b   I v r y ,   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-02-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/citigroup-whistle-blower-says-bank-s-brute-force-hid-bad-loans.html
Four years after rotten mortgages
helped trigger a global financial crisis, Sherry Hunt said her
Citigroup Inc. quality-control team was still finding flaws in
new loans that included altered tax forms, straw buyers and
borrowers who listed fictitious employers.  Instead of reporting the defects to the  Federal Housing
Administration , the bank saddled the agency with losses by
falsely declaring the loans fit for its federal insurance
program, according to a complaint filed yesterday by the U.S.
Attorney’s Office in Manhattan. Citigroup agreed to pay $158.3
million to settle the claims, and admitted that it certified
loans for FHA backing that didn’t qualify.  Hunt, who filed a sealed lawsuit against New York-based
Citigroup in August that the government joined, will collect $31
million of that sum -- before taxes and attorney’s fees -- as a
whistle-blower, she said in an interview yesterday. The
settlement, which encompassed misconduct spanning 2004 to the
present, indicates Citigroup has lingering problems in its
O’Fallon, Missouri-based CitiMortgage unit.  “Citigroup in particular received government funding,
taxpayer dollars, because of its risky operations,” said  Peter Henning , a law professor at  Wayne State University  in  Detroit .
“It shows that they hadn’t really learned much of a lesson from
the financial crisis.”  Inspector General  The inspector general for the U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development faulted Citigroup’s quality-control
program during a 2008 audit, according to the complaint.
Taxpayers rescued the bank with a $45 billion bailout that same
year and guaranteed more than $300 billion of its risky assets
after the lender’s stability was threatened by mounting costs on
soured loans. The bank lost a total of $29.3 billion in 2008 and
2009.  Hunt’s co-workers, instead of checking for fraud or making
reports about underwriting defects to the FHA as required,
argued with her over the soundness of the loans, she said.
Employees who acted as “gatekeepers” applied “what they
describe as ‘brute force’ to pressure Citi’s quality control
managers” into downplaying defects, according to the
government’s complaint.  Some colleagues had pay incentives tied to reducing the
number of reported problems, and they spent hours trying to get
her to relax her warnings, including those about the most basic
deficiencies, Hunt said.  ‘Beating Us Up’  “They started beating us up over the quality-control
reports,” she said.  Last year, she said, she became convinced she was being
asked to look the other way on serious flaws. That’s when she
decided to become a whistle-blower.  “All a dishonest person had to do was change the reports
to make things look better than they were,” Hunt said in an
interview. “I wouldn’t play along.”  Citigroup has approved about 30,000 loans with a value of
$4.8 billion for FHA insurance since 2004; more than 30 percent
of those borrowers have quit paying, the  Justice Department  said
in its complaint. Almost half the bank’s FHA loans originated in
2006 and 2007 have defaulted, the government said, with HUD
paying out almost $200 million in insurance claims on mortgages
Citigroup originated or underwrote since 2004.  Mark C. Rodgers, a Citigroup spokesman, said bank
executives were pleased to resolve the matter.  Improvements Undertaken  “We take our quality-assurance processes seriously and
have proactively undertaken process improvements to ensure that
they are as robust as possible,” Rodgers said in an e-mailed
statement. “We are committed to continuing to work with the
Department of Housing and Urban Development to make  mortgage
loans  available to low- and moderate-income borrowers through
the FHA program.” He declined to comment further.  The CitiMortgage unit is run by Sanjiv Das, who was hired
by Chief Executive Officer Vikram S. Pandit, 55, in July 2008.
Das reports to consumer-banking head Manuel Medina-Mora and
Eugene McQuade, head of Citibank N.A., the bank’s deposit-taking
unit. Both Das and Pandit are former Morgan Stanley executives.
Das declined to be interviewed.  Citigroup executives say they fixed trouble spots
throughout the bank after it took the most bailout money of any
U.S. financial institution during the credit crisis. Its shares
have tumbled 35 percent over the past year, underperforming the
24-member  KBW Bank Index (BKX) , which  fell  20 percent in the same
period. Pandit in 2010  promised  a  “New Citi ” that “practices
responsible finance.”  Star Players  Efforts to quash negative quality-control reports about
mortgages continued into 2011, according to the complaint. That
January, at a quarterly staff meeting that Hunt said 1,000
people attended, CitiMortgage managers gave a “Star Players
Award” to workers who had successfully challenged negative
reviews during meetings with quality-assurance workers and
others, according to the complaint.  “Many of the quality-assurance underwriters who sat in
those meetings were humiliated in front of everyone,” Hunt said.  Her supervisor,  Michael Watts , said in a May 21, 2010, e-
mail that the challenges were aimed at improving numbers tied to
compensation, not fixing the underlying problems.  “Instead of reviewing and analyzing results and then
teaching their channels what is needed to improve, they’re being
encouraged to rebut legitimate variances in an effort to drive
down the rate. It appears that is how their worth is being
measured,” Watts wrote, according to the government’s complaint.  Watts, reached at his home in  Michigan , said he hadn’t seen
the complaint and declined to comment further.  Records Erased  The complaint describes a broken mortgage-processing
system. In one instance, employees erased records of about 1,000
loans that Hunt’s quality-control team identified as possibly
fraudulent, according to the complaint. Defects identified by
the quality-control team didn’t make it into reports, a
violation of HUD requirements, it said.  “A substantial percentage of those claims resulted from
loans that were ineligible for FHA insurance and never should
have been insured,” the government said in the complaint.  The FHA insures qualified loans, relying on what it calls
Direct Endorsement lenders such as Citigroup to make sure the
mortgages adhere to its guidelines. Lenders are required to
notify the FHA when they find underwriting flaws.  Hunt, who lives in Silex,  Missouri , said she started in the
mortgage business as a loan processor for a small Fairbanks,
 Alaska , lender in 1975. She was hired by Citigroup in 2004 and
is now a vice president of quality assurance. She sued the bank,
the third-largest in the U.S. by assets, under the  False Claims
Act , charging that the company defrauded the government.  ‘The Little Guys’  “When this process began, Sherry had no idea there was a
monetary award and what she could get,” said her attorney,
Finley D. Gibbs of Rotts & Gibbs LLC in Columbia, Missouri.
“She risked everything. We were the little guys standing up to
the big guys.”  The $158.3 million that the bank is paying is the second-
biggest ever in a mortgage-fraud case, said Jerika Richardson, a
spokeswoman for the U.S. Attorney’s Office in the Southern
District of  New York . The largest was the $1 billion agreement
on Feb. 9 between the U.S. and Bank of America Corp. and its
Countrywide mortgage unit.  “I had to do something to stop them,” Hunt said. “I felt
that if I were brave enough to come forward and take a stand,
then maybe others would, too.”  U.S. District Judge  Victor Marrero  in New York approved the
accord and unsealed Hunt’s lawsuit yesterday. CitiMortgage must
pay the agreed-on amount within 30 days, said  Manhattan  U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara.  Fourth-Quarter Charge  Citigroup will record a $125 million after-tax charge to
fourth-quarter results “in connection with the resolution of
related mortgage litigation,” according to a Feb. 9 statement.  The FHA, whose cash has been depleted amid increasing
insurance payouts to cover rising defaults among borrowers,
announced on Jan. 20 “steps to limit risk and strengthen
finances.” They include holding lenders accountable for “fraud
and misrepresentation such that the mortgage never should have
been endorsed by the lender.”  Under the settlement, the government reserved the right to
pursue criminal charges. Citigroup’s mortgage unit will work
with HUD to maintain business practices that comply with the
department’s requirements, according to the settlement.  “What it’s going to require in Citigroup, that unit, is a
real change in their culture,” Henning said. “It will be
interesting to see if Citigroup can pull it off.”  Accused in Testimony  Citigroup was accused of spotty underwriting in testimony
in April 2010 before a committee created by Congress to
investigate the financial crisis.  The bank bought at least $70 billion of mortgages from
outside originators in 2006 and 2007 that didn’t meet Citigroup
guidelines, according to Richard M. Bowen III, who supervised
more than 200 underwriters for the bank from 2006 to 2008.  Bowen told the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, or
FCIC, that he began warning supervisors in June 2006 about the
defective loans and continued through 2007 as the defect rate
climbed to 80 percent.  Citigroup began an investigation and the head of the group
responsible for the poor underwriting was fired, according to a
Nov. 1, 2010, letter to the FCIC from Brad S. Karp, chairman of
Paul Weiss Rifkind Wharton & Garrison LLP law firm in New York.  In the second half of 2009 and the first half of 2010, 15
percent of the performing loans Citigroup sold to  Freddie Mac 
had such flaws as incomplete appraisals, missing insurance
documents or miscalculations of income, according to an internal
Freddie Mac review of 375 mortgages obtained last year by
Bloomberg News.  The upper limit for defects should be about 5 percent, Hunt
said.  Other Litigation  Citigroup faces other  litigation  over mortgage-related
securities, including a suit filed by the U.S Federal Housing
Finance Agency, which oversees  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac, the
government-controlled mortgage buyers.  “Citigroup seems willing to work with HUD to resolve these
isssues,” Hunt said. “I take that as a positive sign.”  The case is U.S. ex rel. Hunt v.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , 11-cv-
005473, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Ivry in New York at 
 bivry@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at +1-212-617-2358 or  dscheer@bloomberg.net . 