-- CME Said to Bid for London Metal Exchange as NYSE Explores Possible Offer
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-02-17T11:57:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/cme-group-is-said-to-submit-an-offer-to-purchase-the-london-metal-exchange.html
CME Group Inc. (CME)  has made a bid for
the London Metal Exchange as the world’s largest metals futures
market plans a meeting next week to consider offers, according
to a person with knowledge of the situation.  The price CME Group offered wasn’t disclosed, said the
person, who declined to be identified because negotiations are
private. A purchase of the LME by Chicago-based CME Group would
add to its metals that trade through the Comex, where futures
based on gold, silver and copper are traded.  LME’s board will review the bids in a Feb. 23 meeting. LME
Chief Executive Officer  Martin Abbott  had set Feb. 15 as a
deadline for takeover bids that will be reviewed by a special
committee.  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  submitted an expression of interest
in the LME, another person familiar with the matter said.  The main obstacle to any deal may be regulatory approval
after the European Union earlier this month rejected the
proposed merger of  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  and NYSE Euronext. In the
past 15 months, $37 billion in proposed exchange industry
takeovers failed.  The LME is considering ending its independence after record
trading volumes attracted multiple bidders for the exchange that
handles about 80 percent of global trade in metals futures. It
may be valued at $1.3 billion, according to  Diego Perfumo , an
exchanges analyst at Equity Research Desk, a hedge-fund adviser
in Greenwich, Connecticut.  Possible Buyers  Other bidders for the LME may include  Deutsche Boerse ,
IntercontinentalExchange, and Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing
Ltd., according to Perfumo.   Chris Evans, a spokesman for the LME, and Robert Rendine of
NYSE Euronext declined to comment.  Michael Shore , a CME Group
spokesman, said the company doesn’t discuss rumors and
speculation. The Financial Times reported NYSE Euronext’s
interest in the LME, citing people familiar with the matter.
Carolyn Lim, a spokeswoman for the Singapore Exchange Ltd., said
the exchange doesn’t comment on media reports or market
speculation when asked if it submitted a bid.  Frank Herkenhoff , a spokesman for Deutsche Boerse in
Frankfurt, and Scott Sapp, a spokesman for Hong Kong Exchanges,
declined to comment.  Nybot Example  Atlanta-based ICE, owner of ICE Futures Europe exchange in
London, would bring “the most to the table” if it acquires the
LME, according to KBW Inc. in  New York . ICE could bring LME’s
clearing activity in-house and add more electronic trading in
the same way it did after its acquisition of the  New York Board
of Trade (ICE)  in 2007,  Niamh Alexander , an analyst at KBW, said in a
report dated today.  “Within the two years of acquiring Nybot, ICE had moved the
majority of that soft commodity complex volume onto screens,
effected fee increases and brought the products into its own
central clearing house which also boosted revenue on the
platform,” Alexander said.  Claire Miller, a spokeswoman for ICE in London, declined to
comment.  The LME has operated independently since it started trading
tin and copper in 1877, later adding other non-ferrous metals
such as aluminum, nickel, zinc and lead, minor metals including
cobalt and steel contracts. Since Abbott’s appointment in 2006,
the volume of transactions increased 69 percent and their
combined value advanced 90 percent, as a decade-long  bull market 
in commodities accelerated. The LME index of aluminum, zinc,
copper, tin and lead has climbed 8.7 percent this year.  Goldman, Citigroup  The LME, owned by its members including Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., Barclays Plc and Citigroup Inc., handled $15.4 trillion of
contracts last year.  “We didn’t put ourselves up for sale and we’re not trying
to be sold,” Abbott, 51, said in an interview Feb. 8 at his
office. “We can’t stop people coming and offering us money. We
have an obligation to show those bids to the shareholders, but
that doesn’t mean that we’re for sale.”  Moelis & Co., a U.S. investment bank, is advising the LME.  CME Group, the world’s largest futures market controlling
about 98 percent of U.S. trading, is the product of some of the
largest exchange consolidations. The Chicago Mercantile
Exchange’s $9.6 billion purchase of the Chicago Board of Trade
in 2007 created CME Group, which then  acquired  the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  for $7.6 billion in 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in  London  at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  