-- Coal India May Revive Fuel Imports to Comply With Prime Minister’s Order
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2012-02-17T02:32:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/coal-india-may-revive-fuel-imports-to-comply-with-prime-minister-s-order.html
Coal India Ltd. (COAL) , the world’s biggest
producer of the commodity, may revive plans to import the fuel
to comply with Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s order to increase
supplies to utilities and avoid paying penalties.  “Coal India will have to supply the coal even if they
don’t have domestic production, and this is going to force them
to import,” said Kamlesh Kotak, vice president of research at
Asian Markets Securities Pvt. in Mumbai. “The company is being
driven into a corner to boost the power sector.”  Coal India scrapped a proposal to buy the fuel this year
and suspended a separate plan for annual imports over a decade
because of disagreements with customers on deliveries to plants,
three people with knowledge of the matter said Feb. 2. The
company, facing a production drop, fell the most in seven months
yesterday on concerns that it faces penalties for failing to
meet supply obligations.  The miner may have to import as much as 30 million metric
tons of coal in the year starting April 1 because its output
will fall short of demand, said K. Raja Gopal, chief executive
officer of the power business at  Lanco Infratech Ltd. (LANCI) , India’s
second-biggest, non-state power generator.  Zohra Chatterji, Coal India’s chairman, wasn’t available
for comment at her office in Kolkata. Asok Kumar Sinha, director
of finance, declined to comment. The company is scheduled to
hold a media briefing in Kolkata at 3:45 p.m. local time today.  Coal India  slumped  the most in seven months, dropping 5.8
percent to 320.05 rupees in Mumbai yesterday. The stock has
gained 4.9 percent in the past year, compared with the 1.9
percent decline in the benchmark Sensitive Index.  Import Estimates  The government ordered Coal India on Feb. 15 to sign
agreements to supply projects due to be completed by March 2015
and import the fuel to overcome local production bottlenecks.
Fines may spur the company to increase output, Coal Secretary
Alok Perti said in  New Delhi  yesterday.  The directive came after industrialists including  Anil
Ambani , chairman of  Reliance Power Ltd. (RPWR) , and  Gautam Adani ,
chairman of  Adani Power Ltd. (ADANI) , and Tata Power Co. Chairman  Ratan
Tata  last month met with Prime Minister Singh and urged him to
help ease fuel shortages.  Coal India reported a 2.8 percent drop in production to
291.2 million tons in the nine months ended Dec. 31, according
to a Feb. 13 statement. Operations were curbed by heavy rains,
while the development of new mines was hampered by delays in
land acquisition and environmental approvals.  Quicker Approvals  The Prime Minister has assured Coal India that approvals
will be expedited, Perti said.  “The Ministry of Environment & Forest would expedite and
facilitate environment clearances,” Nomura Equity Research
analysts Anirudh Gangahar, Ivan Lee and Ankit Kumar wrote in a
note. “This would enable  Coal India  to raise production to 615
million tons by fiscal 2017. We expect fiscal 2012 production at
431 million tons.”  The Ministry of Coal is also working on expediting
production from blocks allocated to government agencies to
supplement the company’s supplies, according to the analysts.
“Imports is the least preferred option,” they said.  Coal India is yet to work out an estimate of imports and
won’t absorb prices of fuel purchases from overseas, Secretary
Perti said. Contracts with utilities will be signed starting
next month, he said.  The agreements with utilities would be the first since 2009
to be signed by Coal India, which produces more than 80 percent
of the nation’s output of the fuel. The  power plants  that will
benefit will generate an estimated 50 gigawatts of electricity,
or more than half of the capacity added by  China  last year.  Lanco Infratech  The contracts will “help bring a lot of capacity online,
helping the broader economy,”  Lanco Infratech ’s Raja Gopal said
in a telephone interview yesterday.  Lanco Infratech will delay plans to build three power
plants in India worth $4.8 billion by as much as a year because
of local coal shortages, Chairman L. Madhusudan Rao said Jan.
12.  As much as 28,000 megawatts of capacity will be completed
by March 31, which will need 110 million tons of coal, Raja
Gopal said. Imported coal may “marginally” increase costs for
utilities and result in higher electricity prices, he said.  Power-station  coal prices  at  Australia ’s Newcastle port, an
Asian benchmark, fell 3.6 percent to $116.45 a ton in the week
ended Feb. 10 from a year earlier.  Coal Demand  India , which uses coal to fire more than half of its power
plants, imported 114.35 million tons of the fuel in 2011,
according to shipping data from New Delhi-based Interocean
Group. The South Asian nation bought 81.1 million tons of steam
coal for its power plants last year.  The  BSE Power Index (BSEPOWR) , a measure of 19 Indian companies, rose
5 percent in the past two days, the most since July 15, 2009.
Reliance Power climbed 13 percent during the period, Adani Power
17 percent, Lanco Infratech 8 percent and Tata Power 9.4
percent.  India’s coal demand is expected to climb 41 percent to 981
million tons in the next five years, according to estimates by
the Planning Commission. Output may rise 28 percent to 715
million tons in this period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 