-- Connecticut Coach Jim Calhoun to Miss at Least Two More Basketball Games
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-02-16T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/connecticut-coach-jim-calhoun-to-miss-at-least-two-more-basketball-games.html
University of Connecticut  men’s
basketball coach  Jim Calhoun  will miss at least two more games
while he receives treatment for spinal stenosis, the school said
on its website.  Calhoun, 69, led the Huskies to last season’s  National
Collegiate Athletic Association  championship, his third in 26
years at the Storrs, Connecticut-based university.  UConn has gone 2-2 since Calhoun began a medical leave of
absence on Feb. 3 because of the lower back condition. He has
missed  Big East  conference games against  Seton Hall , Louisville,
Syracuse and DePaul.  “I’m happy that we seem to have located the problem and I
am currently moving forward with treatment,” Calhoun said in a
statement yesterday on the school website. “We have to give
that treatment time to see whether or not it’s effective.”  Calhoun also will miss games Feb. 18 at home against
Marquette and Feb. 20 at Villanova. Assistant  George Blaney , in
his 11th season with the team, has taken over head coaching
duties in Calhoun’s absence.  The Huskies are 16-9 this season, with a 5-6 record in the
 Big East . They defeated visiting DePaul 80-54 last night.  “I’m hoping by the middle of next week we’ll have a much
clearer picture of where we are, and when I can look forward to
getting back to doing what I do,” said Calhoun, a member of the
Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame.  Calhoun was suspended by the NCAA for the first three Big
East conference games of this season for failing to monitor
recruiting violations that included more than $6,000 in improper
benefits to a former player.  In January 2010, Calhoun took a seven-game leave for an
undisclosed illness. At that time, the school said the condition
was unrelated to his history of prostate cancer, which required
surgery in 2003.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  