-- Consumer Comfort Rises to Highest Level in Year
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-02-16T16:05:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/consumer-comfort-rises-to-highest-level-in-year.html
Consumer confidence  in the U.S.
increased for a fourth straight week to reach the highest level
in a year as more households believe the economy is improving.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index rose to minus 39.8 in
the period ended Feb. 12 from minus 41.7 the previous week. It
marked just the third time since April 2008 that the gauge has
climbed above minus 40, a reading consistent with recessions or
their aftermath. The  monthly expectations  gauge climbed to minus
7 in February, also a 12-month high.  Sentiment among those without a job was the strongest since
April 2008, showing news of payroll gains and fewer job cuts is
even lifting the spirits of households that have yet to benefit
from the recovery. Higher stock prices so far this year may also
be giving confidence a boost, helping offset rising  fuel prices .  “Rising incomes, a slower pace of firings in the economy
and a modest wealth effect due to the near  bull market  in
equities likely combined to create the conditions that sent
economic pessimism to its lowest reading in over a year,” said
 Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at Bloomberg LP in New
York.  Claims for jobless benefits last week unexpectedly dropped
to the lowest level in four years, showing the job market is on
the mend, figures from the Labor Department showed today.  Applications for unemployment insurance payments decreased
13,000 in the week ended Feb. 11 to 348,000, less than the
lowest forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News and the
fewest since March 2008. The median survey estimate projected an
increase to 365,000.  More Houses  Builders began work on more houses in January, and
wholesale prices rose less than forecast as food and fuel prices
dropped, other reports showed.  Stocks advanced as the better news on the economy helped
overcome concern about a Greek debt default. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.3 percent to 1,347.8 at 11:04 a.m. in
 New York .  Two components of the weekly consumer comfort index
improved, while the third was little changed. The measure of
Americans’ views on the state of the economy rose to minus 72.1
last week from minus 76.6. An index of the buying climate
increased to minus 47.4 from minus 48.4. The gauge of  personal
finances  was at 0.2 after a reading of zero.  In a separate, forward-looking question, 23 percent of
Americans said the economy was getting better, the largest share
since April. Thirty percent said it was getting worse, bringing
the monthly  expectations  gauge up to minus 7 in February from
minus 19.  Yearly Averages  The weekly Bloomberg comfort index had been stuck below
minus 40 since the end of February 2011. The index, which began
December 1985, averaged minus 46.8 last year, compared with
minus 45.7 for 2010 and minus 47.9 in 2009, the worst full-year
reading on record.  Breaking out of the “recession zone” in the comfort index
marked a “key milestone in its struggle to dig out of its
deepest, longest downturn in a generation,”  Gary Langer ,
president of Langer Research Associates LLC in New York, which
compiles the index for Bloomberg, said in a statement.  Better labor and stock markets helped stoke confidence.
Payrolls rose by 243,000 workers last month, the biggest gain
since April, and the  unemployment rate  fell to a three-year low
of 8.3 percent, the Labor Department said on Feb. 3. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index this week  climbed  to the highest
level since July.  Job Opportunities  The chance of landing a job may now be improving for out-
of-work Americans. Sentiment among those not employed rose to
minus 46.4 last week. Also, those with less than a high school
degree were the most optimistic since December 2010.  “We have some decent economic news in the U.S. lately,”
Ajaypal Banga, chief executive officer of  Mastercard Inc. (MA)  said
on a Feb. 2 call with analysts. “This comes as consumer balance
sheets have improved, following a period of deleveraging, and
all this has had a positive impact on  consumer spending .”  The share of consumers citing a “poor” buying climate
fell last week to the lowest level since December 2007.  Sales at retailers excluding  car dealerships  climbed 0.7
percent in January, the biggest gain in 10 months, data from the
Commerce Department showed earlier this week.  Confidence among households in the West, where Americans
are most optimistic, rose 8.6 points to minus 25.4, the highest
level since May 2009. Sentiment among men was the strongest
since January 2011, while Republicans were the most optimistic
since July. Homeowners were the most upbeat since December 2010.  Gasoline Prices  Increasing fuel costs could restrain further gains in
sentiment. A gallon of regular unleaded gasoline climbed to
$3.52 as of Feb. 14 from a 10-month low of $3.21 in December,
according to AAA, the nation’s largest automobile association.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
18 years old and older. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for
their views on the economy, personal finances and buying
climate; the percentage of negative responses is subtracted from
the share of positive views and divided by three. The most
recent reading is based on the average of responses over the
previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  Field work for the index is done by SSRS/Social Science
Research Solutions in Media,  Pennsylvania .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  