-- CPFB to Oversee Debt Collectors, Credit Bureaus
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-02-16T18:53:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/consumer-bureau-to-supervise-debt-collectors.html
The Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau proposed a regulation that would let it examine the books
of debt collectors and consumer reporting businesses as part of
its program to supervise non-bank financial companies.  “Our proposed rule would mean that those debt collectors
and credit reporting agencies that qualify as larger
participants are subject to the same supervision process that we
apply to the banks,” the bureau’s director,  Richard Cordray ,
said in an e-mailed statement today.  The regulation, which must be finalized by July 21, would
bring credit bureaus such as  Experian Plc (EXPN) ,  Equifax Inc. (EFX)  and
 TransUnion Corp (TRUN) . under federal supervision for the first time.
It would also extend to  Fair Isaac Corp. (FICO) , the company that
developed and maintains the algorithm used to calculate
consumers’ credit ratings, known as FICO scores.  The proposal would cover, also for the first time at the
federal level, debt collectors such as  Asset Acceptance Capital
Corp. (AACC) ,  Portfolio Recovery Associates Inc. (PRAA)  and  Encore Capital
Group Inc. (ECPG)   Supervision, the process of examining records and
collecting data from companies, can lead to enforcement action
if regulators find violations of the law. In the case of these
companies, the consumer bureau could find breaches of the Fair
Debt Collection Practices Act or the Fair Credit Reporting Act.  Rating the Raters  In comments to reporters before the announcement, Cordray
pointed out that banking supervision involves assigning ratings
to banks, which affect their ability to conduct certain
business. The agency may follow the same route for non-banks.  “That may matter a lot to these entities, particularly the
publicly traded ones because it might affect their ability to
effectuate transactions,” Cordray said. “There could be quite
a bit of power to this supervisory authority.”  Even before this rule is finalized, the bureau intends to
designate companies in other markets for supervision, Peggy
Twohig, the bureau’s assistant director for supervision, told
reporters. In July, the bureau requested public comment on
supervision of different markets, including prepaid cards, debt
settlement and  consumer lending .  Under today’s proposal, debt collectors with more than $10
million in annual receipts from collection activities will face
supervision by the consumer bureau. According to the agency,
this threshold would cover about 175 debt collection companies -
- 4 percent of all such companies -- that together account for
63 percent of the industry’s annual revenue.  Targeting Larger Companies  Consumer reporting companies with more than $7 million in
annual revenue would be supervised, according to the proposal.
That would cover about 30 companies that together account for
about 94 percent of the industry’s annual revenue.  Under the Small Business Regulatory Enforcement and
Flexibility Act, agencies including the consumer bureau have to
vet the potential impact of regulations on companies with less
than $7 million in receipts, according to Richard Eckman, a
lawyer with Pepper Hamilton LLP in Wilmington,  Delaware .  “This is clearly an attempt to avoid the SBREFA process on
the regulation,” Eckman said in an e-mail.  Republicans have criticized the potential impact of
consumer bureau regulations on small business.  The bureau requested public comment on the proposal for 60
days after publication in the Federal Register.  The Dodd-Frank law of 2010 requires the bureau to issue a
rule by July 21 on what “larger participants” in the non-bank
consumer financial services market it will supervise. The bureau
began examination of banks with assets above $10 billion on
consumer issues on July 21, 2011.  Dodd-Frank directs the bureau to supervise mortgage
originators, payday lenders and student loan companies. That
program began on Jan. 5, shortly after President  Barack Obama 
installed Cordray as the bureau’s first director.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  