-- Six Richter Paintings Push Sotheby’s London Sale to $80 Million
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2012-02-16T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/contests-for-six-richter-paintings-push-sotheby-s-u-k-sale-to-80-million.html
Six paintings by  Gerhard Richter 
sold last night at auction for a total of almost $30 million,
confirming his status as the most bankable living artist,
dealers said.  The German painter’s works pushed the Sotheby’s  London 
contemporary-art sale to an $80 million total as investment-
minded buyers were attracted by rising prices and a relatively
plentiful supply of quality works.  Sellers of Richter, who was recently the subject of a
retrospective at London’s Tate Modern, have been encouraged by
the performance of a group of eight abstracts at Sotheby’s in
 New York  on Nov. 9, which all sold above upper estimates.  “After the buzz of that collection, people were keen to
cash in,” said Heinrich zu Hohenlohe, director of the Berlin
branch of the dealership  Dickinson . “There’s a lot of Richter
out there, and the market seems able to absorb it. He produces
paintings that appeal to every kind of taste and there are
buyers coming in from all over the world. They think art is a
good place to be at the moment.”  Last night’s top price was 4.9 million pounds ($7.7
million) with fees, paid for the 1992 “Abstraktes Bild (768-4),”
featuring vertical waves of black and white paint. Fresh to the
auction market, it was bought by Georgina Macpherson, head of
 Sotheby’s (BID)  London-based client services department, for a private
telephone bidder against an upper estimate of 4 million pounds.  Frozen Seascape  The 1981 photorealist painting “Eis (Ice),” showing a
desolate expanse of frozen seascape, was sold to Sotheby’s
London-based specialist Olivia Thornton, acting for another
phone buyer, at 4.3 million pounds, a record for a landscape by
the artist, the auction house said. All the Richters attracted
multiple bids and their final total with fees was more than 7
million pounds more than the low estimate, based on hammer
prices.  In last November’s New York sale, a 1997 “Abstraktes Bild”
in purple, red and blue was bought by the London-based collector
Lily Safra for a record $20.8 million.  At last night’s Sotheby’s auction 57 of the 63 lots
successfully found buyers. Still, it lacked any lots valued at
more than 5 million pounds, unlike the equivalent 80.6 million-
pound event at  Christie’s International (CHRS)  the previous evening,
where a 1994 Richter abstract sold for 9.9 million pounds.  Sotheby’s total of 50.7 million pounds with fees was
slightly above the high estimate of 48 million pounds. Buyers
hailed from 20 different countries, the auction house said.  “If  interest rates  remain low, prices will keep rising,”
the Montreal-based collector Francois Odermatt said in an
interview. “People aren’t making any money on deposit and when
there’s a financial crisis, they want art assets. I just wish
I’d bought Richter when they were more affordable.”  Orange Basquiat  Five bidders contested the 1982 Jean-Michel Basquiat
painting “Orange Sports Figure,” before it was bought by
Sotheby’s New York-based specialist Scott Nussbaum, representing
a client on the telephone, for 4.1 million pounds against an
estimate of 3 million pounds to 4 million pounds.  The work, entered by a European collector, was of a prime
date by the artist whose paintings are becoming increasingly
scarce, dealers said.  Growing demand from  Asia  was underlined by the 1.8 million
pounds and 1.6 million pounds respectively paid by telephone
bidders for colorful 1990s abstract paintings by the Chinese
artist Zao Wou-Ki. Both works sold for double their high
estimates.  Freud Interest  Sellers were also keen to benefit from the interest in 
 Lucian Freud  generated by the current exhibition at the
London National Portrait Gallery and accompanying dealer shows.  Five drawings and a painting by the artist, who died last
year, were included in the sale, ranging in value from a low
estimate of 100,000 pounds for a 1983 drawing of horse’s head to
an upper valuation of 2 million pounds for a 1955 head-and-
shoulders portrait of a man.  The painting failed to sell, and a top price of 735,650
pounds was instead paid by the London dealer  Matthew Green  for a
1985 charcoal portrait of the lawyer Lord Goodman. This had been
estimated at 400,000 to 600,000 pounds.  “Freud is more of a local market than Richter and the
market can’t absorb as much material,” zu Hohenlohe said.  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 