-- Cushman & Wakefield, Credit Suisse Sued by Tim Blixseth
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-02-17T02:09:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/cushman-wakefield-credit-suisse-sued-by-tim-blixseth.html
Cushman & Wakefield Inc. and  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  were sued by developer Tim Blixseth, the founder
of the luxury Yellowstone Club resort in  Montana , who seeks $2
billion in damages that he says were caused by fraudulent
property appraisals.  Blixseth claims Credit Swiss made “predatory” loans based
on inflated appraisals by Cushman Wakefield of the Yellowstone
property so it could take over the resort when the debts
couldn’t be repaid, according to a complaint filed yesterday in
federal court in Denver.  The resort borrowed $375 million from Credit Suisse in
September 2005 and sought  bankruptcy protection  in November
2008. The Zurich-based bank retained the right to collect on the
loan after the resort’s purchase by CrossHarbor Capital Partners
LLC was approved.  Blixseth alleged he was tricked into receiving $209 million
of the original loan based on an inflated appraisal. He says he
used the money to expand the Yellowstone brand name worldwide to
pay back the loan.  Credit Suisse, through the resort’s reorganization plan,
sought to collect on the loan in violation of credit agreements,
according to Blixseth’s complaint. He says he lost $1 billion in
projected  cash flow  from Yellowstone and more than $800 million
in equity and liability for loans.  The complaint includes claims for fraud, racketeering and
negligence.  Similar Lawsuit  Blixseth has asked a federal judge in  Idaho  to allow him to
intervene in a similar lawsuit filed by his son and other
property owners against Cushman and Credit Suisse. The judge
hasn’t yet ruled.  “This most recent lawsuit by Mr. Blixseth again claiming
that he was deceived into taking millions of dollars of loans
for his personal use is no more credible than his prior
claims,” Credit Suisse said in an e-mailed statement. “Many of
these same claims have already been unsuccessful in other courts
and we will continue to seek dismissal of these meritless
lawsuits.”  Dwayne Doherty, spokesman for Cushman & Wakefield, declined
to comment on the new complaint.  The case is Blixseth v Cushman & Wakefield, 12-393, U.S.
District Court, District of  Colorado  (Denver).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  