-- Czech Inflation Quickens to Fastest in 3 Years on Tax Increase
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-02-16T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/czech-inflation-quickens-to-fastest-in-3-years-on-tax-increase.html
Czech inflation accelerated to the
fastest pace in three years in January after an increase in the
value-added  tax rate .  The  inflation rate  rose to 3.5 percent, the highest since
December 2008, from 2.4 percent the previous month, the
Statistics Office in  Prague  said today in a statement on its
website. The reading exceeded the median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey of 13 analysts for 3.2 percent inflation. Prices rose 1.8
percent from December.  The government raised the lower VAT bracket -- levied on
some goods and services including food, drugs and public
transportation -- to 14 percent from 10 percent starting this
year to boost budget revenue. The Cabinet may need to cut
spending to meet this year’s budget-deficit target as the debt
crisis in the euro area, the market for about 70 percent of
Czech exports, worsens the  economic  outlook.  Prices of food and non-alcoholic beverages rose 7 percent
in January from a year earlier, while housing, water, energy and
fuel was up 5.5 percent,  the statistics office said.
Transportation costs increased 3.8 percent from the previous
year.  Inflation Pickup  A pickup in inflation caused solely by an increase in VAT
isn’t a reason for the central bank to raise  interest rates ,
Governor Miroslav Singer said in a Jan. 18 interview. Inflation
relevant for monetary policy, defined as price growth adjusted
for the primary impact of changes in indirect taxes, will “move
near the inflation target” of 2 percent by the third quarter of
next year, the bank said in a Feb. 2 forecast.  At least one policy maker said during the Feb. 2 rate
meeting that “second-round effects of the VAT increase may be
stronger than assumed” in the bank’s forecast, according to the
minutes from the session, which don’t name the board members who
comment.  The Ceska Narodni Banka left the benchmark  two-week  rate at
0.75 percent in February, a quarter-point below the  European
Central Bank ’s main rate. The bank has kept the rate at that
record-low level since May 2010, repeatedly saying the economy
isn’t generating demand-driven inflation pressures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  