-- Decade of ‘Stocks Stink’ Boosts Alternatives, Steinmetz Says
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   N i c k   B a k e r
-- 2012-02-16T22:14:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/decade-of-stocks-stink-boosts-alternatives-steinmetz-says.html
The decade-long slump in equity
prices boosted interest in alternative assets, giving a
“faddish element” to these investments, according to
OppenheimerFunds Inc.’s Arthur Steinmetz.  Investors should continue to hold alternative assets even
as volatility declines and stock prices rebound, Steinmetz,
chief investment officer at OppenheimerFunds, said today at a
portfolio managers’ conference organized by  Bloomberg Link  in
New York.  “What we all know is for the last decade, stocks have
stunk and that has meant there’s been increasing focus on
anything that doesn’t go down the way stocks go down,”
Steinmetz said. “That gives rise to a bit of a faddish element
around searching for non-stock-like assets. Alternatives have
always been a good idea. We used to call it diversification.”  Investors have turned to so-called alternative assets in
search of protection and higher returns in a volatile market
with increased correlations.  Alternative investments , which can
range from derivatives to real estate holdings, have rivaled
traditional funds, spurring withdrawals of about $470 billion
from U.S. equity mutual funds over the last five years.  “Having a decade where stocks stink is somewhat
anomalous,” Steinmetz said. “I question whether or not the
current fad for alternatives will be quite so durable if we have
few years of great stock market returns.”  Steinmetz said loans are one of his current favorite asset
classes because of company balance sheets that are in better
shape than usual at this point in the economic recovery and
liquidity provided by the  Federal Reserve .  ‘Diversification Is Key’  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 4.7 percent in the
decade ended 2010 and was unchanged last year. Investors pulled
money from U.S. stock mutual funds for a fifth year in 2011, the
longest streak in data going back to 1984, according to the
 Investment Company Institute  in  Washington . The benchmark gauge
for U.S. equities has rallied 8 percent this year, the best
start since 1997.  Last week, Laurence D. Fink, chief executive of  BlackRock
Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest money manager, urged investors to “be
100 percent in equities.”  “Diversification is key,” Jack Foster, head of real
assets at Franklin Templeton Real Asset Advisors, said today at
the conference. “Yes, this might be the time for equities but
there’s also a real suggestion for investors to have balance. We
want investors to be wary of believing they can market time
things. You need to get invested and willing to wait over time
for markets to balance out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in  New York  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker in New York at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  