-- Dexia Cuts Bullish Stock Bet as Europe Policy Initiative Weakens
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-02-16T08:36:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/dexia-cuts-bullish-stock-bet-as-europe-policy-initiative-weakens.html
Dexia Asset Management tempered its
bullish bet on equities, doubling its cash holdings, as it sees
less scope for positive economic data and European leaders
struggle to provide new measures to stem the debt crisis.  The  money manager  that has 80.5 billion euros ($105
billion) in client assets added to cash holdings by selling
positions in Arkema SA, Vallourec SA and  Ryanair Holdings Plc. (RYA) 
Its high conviction fund now has 20 percent invested in cash, up
from 10 percent at the start of February, while its balanced
funds remain slightly overweight equities.  Pressure on euro-zone countries to contain the debt crisis
and stimulate growth has intensified, clouding the outlook, even
as equity markets rallied and sovereign bond yields declined,
according to Frederic Buzare, Dexia’s head of equities.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index has surged 8 percent this year
as better-than-estimated U.S. economic data helped restore more
than $4 trillion to global equity markets. The 23 percent rally
from last year’s lowest level to yesterday has pushed the  price-
earnings ratio  on the gauge from 9.5 times estimated profits in
September to a multiple of 10.9, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “We’ve taken some chips off the table and become a little
more defensive in the last week,” said Buzare in a recent phone
interview from Brussels. “I’m not sure the macro picture will
improve from the current level. The big hangover -- Greece -- is
not solved. There are plenty of reasons to start becoming
cautious.”  Growth Problem  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  has pointed to
signs of stabilization in the euro-area economy and said the ECB
averted a credit crunch with its three-year loans to lenders in
December. The central bank will offer a second round of
financing, known as LTRO, at the end of this month.  “It reduced dramatically the tail risk,” said Dexia’s
Buzare. “It has not solved the lack of growth in several
European countries. The second LTRO won’t be a surprise.”  The money manager also sold its RWE AG shares. The German
utility has rallied 18 percent this year. This was in addition
to decreasing holdings of Arkema, the French chemical maker, and
Vallourec SA, the steel-pipe producer. Buzare didn’t say how
large the stakes sold were.  Euro-area finance ministers may postpone a full aid package
until Greek elections in April after they canceled a meeting
yesterday because they aren’t convinced the nation will stick to
austerity pledges. Creditor countries are seeking more control
over how future aid is spent as  Greece  faces possible default
over a bond payment due on March 20. Policy makers will discuss
a second bailout on Feb. 20, Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean- Claude Juncker said.  “The momentum is weakening in terms of policy
initiatives,” said Buzare. “The market pressure may come back
to force new pressure on that front.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  