-- DNA Robots Programmed to Kill Cancer Cells, Harvard Study Shows
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-02-16T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/dna-robots-programmed-to-kill-cancer-cells-harvard-study-shows.html
Scientists have created a robot made
entirely from DNA that can be instructed to find diseased cells
in the body and deliver a payload to kill or reprogram them,
according to a study from  Harvard University .  The robot was constructed by folding DNA strands into a
shape that looks roughly like a clamshell. The researchers
programmed the  nano-sized  device to open in the presence of
leukemia and lymphoma cells in a laboratory dish, where they
delivered immune system antibodies that caused the cells to
self-destruct, according to a report in the journal  Science .  The next step will be to test the system in animals,
tweaking the robot so that it can circulate longer in the blood
to locate all cancer cells. The technology isn’t yet ready for
commercial use, said  Shawn Douglas , an author of the study.  “In diseases such as cancer we know if we can find every
single last cell and kill or reprogram it, we can cure that
disease,” said Douglas, a researcher at the Wyss Institute for
Biologically Inspired Engineering at Harvard, in  Boston . “A lot
of our current therapies fall short.”  The idea is based on the behavior of the body’s immune
cells, which recognize viruses or other invaders and attack
them, Douglas said. The DNA nano-robots, with similar
capabilities, may potentially lead to the development of new
types of targeted cancer treatments that kill only abnormal
cells, he said.  The robots don’t reproduce. They have to be constructed in
a process that has gained traction since the idea of DNA
nanotechnology was first suggested in 1982.  Genetic Information  DNA is a material, shaped in the form of a revolving
ladder, which carries the genetic information in our cells.  The double-sided strands have so-called sticky ends that
allow them to be joined together with other DNA. Scientists, led
by  Nadrian Seeman , now head of the Department of Chemistry at
 New York University , have used those sticky ends to form DNA
into lattices that can be shaped in various ways.  The latest research created a robot in a clamshell shape
that’s held together with a “zipper” constructed of a special
sequence of DNA, the report said. The zipper was programmed to
release its grip when it recognized specific targets on a cell,
allowing the robot to release its payload.  In the experiment, Douglas and his fellow scientists used
the robot they constructed to deliver instructions encoded in
antibodies to the cancer cells.  “It’s an important step forward in specific targeting,”
said  Milan Stojanovic , an assistant professor of experimental
therapeutics at  Columbia University  in  New York  who wasn’t
involved in the research, in an e-mail. “It looks very
exciting.”  Besides cancer, the robots may also benefit people with
autoimmune disease, Douglas said. One day, the robots might be
used to find immune cells wrongly attacking the body and
reprogram them, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 