-- Yen, Dollar Fall on U.S. Growth Outlook, Optimism Over Greece; Pound Gains
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-02-17T12:18:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/dollar-maintains-losses-on-forecasts-leading-index-to-signal-u-s-recovery.html
The yen and dollar declined as signs
the  U.S. economy  is gaining momentum and optimism European
leaders will reach an accord to rescue Greece reduced demand for
haven assets.  South Korea ’s won and New Zealand’s dollar led gains in
higher-yielding currencies before a U.S. report that economists
said will show an  index (SXXP)  of leading indicators improved for a
fourth month. The euro climbed to a two-month high against the
yen on speculation European finance ministers will approve the
Greek rescue at a meeting next week. The pound rose for a fifth
day against the yen after U.K. retail sales increased.  “A risk-on currency strategy has been playing out well
given economic numbers out of the U.S. are mostly positive,”
said Peter Rosenstreich, chief currency strategist at Swissquote
Bank SA in Geneva. “There’s ample liquidity in the system, and
optimism increases that there will be a second bailout deal for
 Greece . There are still a lot of uncertainties.”  The yen fell 0.3 percent to 103.95 per euro at 7:01 a.m. in
 New York  after sliding to 104.09, the weakest level since Dec.
9. The dollar slipped 0.1 percent to $1.3139 per euro after
falling 0.5 percent yesterday. The yen slid 0.3 percent to 79.15
per dollar. It earlier touched 79.18, the weakest since Oct. 31.  The New York-based Conference Board’s gauge of the U.S.
outlook for the next three to six months increased 0.5 percent
in January after climbing 0.4 percent in December, according to
a Bloomberg News survey before today’s report. The  cost of
living  climbed 0.3 percent last month from December, economists
projected before today’s Labor Department data.  ‘There Is Momentum’  “It’s very clear to us that there is momentum in the U.S.
economy,” said  Robert Rennie , chief currency strategist at
Westpac Banking Corp. in Sydney. Investors are taking “any
opportunity that they have to buy risk and sell dollars.”  The Stoxx Europe 600  Index (SXXP)  advanced 0.7 percent, and the
MSCI All-Country World Index gained 0.6 percent, set for the
highest close since Aug. 1.  The yen has tumbled 6.2 over the past month and the dollar
dropped 3.1 percent, the worst performers among 10 developed-
market currencies according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes. The euro gained 0.4 percent over the period.  ‘Yen Weakness’  The yen weakened beyond 79 per dollar today for the first
time since the central bank intervened in foreign-exchange
markets on Oct. 31 to sell the currency.  “The drivers of sudden yen weakness remain elusive as they
been all week,”  Adam Cole , head of currency strategy at  RBC
Capital Markets  in London, wrote today in a note to clients.
“We maintain a positive medium term view on the yen and see no
fundamental reason for the supply-demand balance to have
suddenly shifted.”  Officials say the  European Central Bank  is swapping its
Greek bonds for new ones and the move may be completed by Feb.
20. That may pave the way for a private-sector bond swap and
convince euro-area finance ministers to agree to a second
bailout for Greece when they meet that day in Brussels.  New Zealand’s dollar strengthened 0.5 percent to 83.71 U.S.
cents and rose 0.8 percent to 66.26 yen. The won appreciated 0.6
percent to 1,125.50 per dollar.  New Zealand ’s benchmark rate is 2.5 percent and South
Korea’s is 3.25 percent, compared with as low as zero in the
U.S. and  Japan .  Pound Gains  The pound climbed to a three-month high against the yen as
the retail-sales report fueled speculation the U.K. economy will
dodge a recession.  Sales including fuel climbed 0.9 percent from December,
when they rose 0.6 percent, the  Office for National Statistics 
said today. Economists forecast a 0.3 percent decline, according
to a Bloomberg News survey.  “The retail sales data helped the pound, it was
surprisingly good,” said  Steven Barrow , head of Group of 10
research at Standard Bank Plc in London. “The numbers look
genuinely good and may be something that helps the momentum of
sterling. It makes me a little bit more positive that growth in
the first quarter won’t fall, avoiding a technical recession.”  The pound gained 0.2 percent to $1.5828, extending its
weekly advance to 0.4 percent. Sterling rose 0.5 percent to
125.29 yen after reaching 125.37, the strongest since Nov. 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in  London  at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  