-- Drunk-Driving Interlock Sales May Jump
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-02-16T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/drunk-driving-interlock-sales-may-jump-5-fold-under-u-s-bills.html
The market for devices to prevent
convicted drunk drivers from starting cars if they’ve had too
much to drink may surge almost fivefold if the  U.S. Congress 
passes a bill under debate this month.  Sales of ignition interlock  devices , which analyze a
driver’s breath and prevent a car from starting if the driver’s
blood-alcohol content exceeds the legal limit, may jump to as
much as $1.1 billion a year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Fifteen states currently mandate the technology for
convicted drunk drivers, including first-time offenders, as a
condition for retaining their drivers’ licenses.  Surface-transportation bills in the House and Senate
include measures supported by Mothers Against Drunk Driving that
would give states extra highway money if they enact laws
requiring interlocks for convicted drunk drivers. There were
10,228 U.S. alcohol-related driving deaths in 2010, down 4.9
percent from the previous year, according to the U.S. National
Highway Traffic Safety Administration.  “There is still a substantial problem of alcohol-impaired
driving,” Adrian Lund, president of the Insurance Institute for
Highway Safety, said in a telephone interview. “If you have
technology on a vehicle that can measure alcohol in a person,
then you can prevent that vehicle from being operated.”  About 7,000 lives could be saved annually in the U.S. if no
one drove with a blood-alcohol content over the legal limit of
0.08 percent, according to the Insurance Institute for Highway
Safety.  Changing State Laws  There are about 1.4 million drunk-driving  arrests  each year
in the U.S., with as many as 1.2 million of those ending in
convictions, according to MADD, an Irving, Texas-based advocacy
group. About 249,000 interlocks are in use now, according to
Richard Roth, a retired physicist who researches interlocks and
who has helped states write laws requiring them.  “There’s a lot of lives at stake,” said J.T. Griffin,
senior vice president of public policy for Mothers Against Drunk
Driving. “Incentive grants traditionally at the federal level
have proven to move state behavior and change state laws.”  The devices are made for the U.S. market by 13 companies
such as Draegerwerk AG & Co., a German manufacturer of medical
and safety equipment, and closely held  Smart Start Inc .,
 TruTouch Technologies  and  Guardian Interlock Systems , according
to Roth, who is based in  Santa Fe ,  New Mexico .  They cost offenders $470 every six months in  Virginia  for
installation and monitoring, said Griffin.  Companies lease the devices, monitor them and communicate
with  law enforcement  overseeing the sentences of drunk drivers.  More Makers?  House Transportation  and Infrastructure Committee Chairman
 John Mica , a Florida Republican, is seeking to allot an
additional $21 million of annual highway funds to states with
interlock requirements. The proposed legislation in the Senate
doesn’t yet specify an amount.  Passage of the legislation would probably attract
additional makers to the market, said  David Kelly , executive
director of the Coalition of Ignition Interlock Manufacturers.  Sales may peak at about 750,000 units a year, because not
all offenders will use them and a deterrent effect eventually
may cause drunk driving to decline, Kelly and Roth said.  “You’re always going to have a group of people that just
never are going to put these devices on,” Kelly said. “They
don’t like them, they’d rather drive with a suspended license,
they can’t afford them.”  The requirement is meeting opposition from the American
Beverage Institute, a Washington-based group that represents
beverage suppliers and restaurant chains. Members operate 8,000
restaurants, the group says without identifying them.  ‘Chilling’ Sales  Restaurants fear the “chilling effect” of interlock laws
on sales, Sarah Longwell, managing director of the restaurant
group, said in a telephone interview.  “What we don’t want is for somebody who is below the legal
limit or perhaps one sip over the legal limit to be punished in
the same way as someone who has had 10 drinks before driving,”
Longwell said.  Chili’s Grill & Bar, owned by  Brinker International Inc. (EAT) ,
has seen its bar business pick up recently as it advertises
premium margaritas and draft beer, Wyman Roberts, Chili’s
president, said on an earnings conference call on Jan. 24.  “We can sell more alcoholic beverages and that’s what
we’re focused on,” he said.  Maureen Locus, a spokeswoman for Dallas-based Brinker,
declined to comment.  Mimi’s Cafe, owned by Bob Evans Farms Inc., said alcohol
sales increased to account for 4.5 percent of sales in the
quarter ended Oct. 28, from 3.9 percent a year earlier, after it
promoted wine. Bar sales in the most recent quarter rose 12
percent at Mimi’s, Bob Evans said yesterday.  The Columbus, Ohio-based restaurant operator is converting
more of its Mimi’s locations to have full bars.  Margaret Standing, a spokeswoman for  Bob Evans , declined to
comment on interlocks.  The House bill is H.R. 7. The Senate bill is S. 1813.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  