-- Duke Energy Fourth-Quarter Profit Fell 33% on Milder Weather
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-02-16T21:42:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/duke-energy-reports-fourth-quarter-profit-fell-on-milder-weather.html
Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) , which agreed last
year to buy  Progress Energy Inc. (PGN)  to become the largest U.S.
utility owner, said fourth-quarter profit fell 33 percent as
milder weather reduced heating demand.  Net income declined to $288 million, or 22 cents a share,
from $427 million, or 32 cents, a year earlier,  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Duke said in a statement today. Excluding merger-
related costs, per-share profit was 2 cents more than the
average of 10  analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Sales
fell 2.2 percent to $3.37 billion.  The average temperature in North Carolina, where Duke has
most of its customers, was 40 percent warmer in December than a
year earlier, according to the National Climatic Data Center.
Weather-driven demand for heating fell 21 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier in the state, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Duke agreed in January 2011 to a $16.1 billion takeover of
Progress, which serves customers in  North Carolina  and  Florida .
The deadline for the transaction was extended to July 8 after
the  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  rejected Duke’s plan to
limit the combined company’s ability to manipulate power prices.  A revised proposal may be submitted to the North Carolina
Utilities commission as early as next week and to the federal
commission 30 days later, Chief Executive Officer James E. Rogers said today on a conference call with investors.  Power Lines  Duke expects to propose short-term measures to prevent
price manipulation and a long-term solution that includes
building and expanding high-voltage power lines, Chief Financial
Officer Lynn Good said on the call. The estimated cost for those
lines is $100 million, she said.  FERC won’t update its policies for reviewing utility
mergers, rejecting a looser definition of market power adopted
by two antitrust agencies and backed by companies. FERC decided
today to retain existing merger-analysis guidelines, rather than
follow the  Justice Department  and Federal Trade Commission
policies issued in 2010.  “We’ve been in a sense shooting in the dark with respect
to what the policy is at the commission,” Rogers said today in
an telephone interview. “We want to get it right.”  Duke’s 2012 profit target is $1.40 to $1.45 a share
excluding effects of the Progress takeover. The company is
expected to earn $1.43 a share this year, the average of 16
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Estimate Revised  Progress, based in Raleigh, North Carolina, today reported
a net loss of $76 million, or 25 cents a share, compared with
profit of $125 million, or 42 cents, a year earlier.  The results include a $288 million settlement with Florida
regulators, refunding customer costs for power Progress bought
to replace a shut unit at its Crystal River nuclear plant.  Duke today revised its estimate of cost to comply with new
and pending U.S. Environmental Protection Agency regulations of
coal-plant air emissions and water-cooling systems to $5 billion
over 10 years, from a range of $5 billion to $6 billion. The
change reflects expectations for  Duke rose 1.1 percent to $21.10 at the close in  New York .
Progress rose 1.1 percent to $53.92.  Exelon Corp. (EXC) , based in  Chicago , is the largest U.S. utility
owner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 