-- Health-Care Law May Mean Other Buying Mandates, Clement Says
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-02-16T21:36:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/health-care-law-may-lead-to-other-buying-mandates-clement-says.html
A  Supreme Court  decision upholding
President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law, which compels people
to buy medical insurance, would give Congress the power to make
Americans purchase any other product, said lawyers challenging
the measure.  “The next time, it’ll be cars,” said  Paul Clement , a
Washington lawyer who represents 26 states that have appealed to
the high court. “Some people don’t buy cars. They walk.”  At a debate in Washington today, sponsored by Bloomberg Law
and Scotusblog, Clement and a second attorney challenging the
law clashed with supporters over the reach of Congress’ power to
regulate interstate commerce.  The health-care fight may produce one of Supreme Court’s
most important rulings on the balance of power between the
federal government and the states. The court will hear 5 1/2
hours of argument over three days in late March -- the longest
in decades -- and its ruling may affect this year’s presidential
election. The court probably will rule in late June.  The central issue is whether Congress can require
individuals to buy insurance or pay a penalty. Neal Katyal, a
former Obama administration lawyer, said the provision was a
legitimate step to prevent people who lack insurance from
receiving health care and then leaving the bill to others.  “What Congress is reacting to is not the failure to buy,”
Katyal said. “It’s the failure to pay for it.”  ‘Unprecedented’ Law  The Obama administration says the individual mandate will
keep policy premiums in check by giving insurers millions of
new, low-cost customers. Otherwise, prices would soar because of
new requirements that insurers accept applicants with
preexisting conditions and charge them the same rates as other
policyholders, the government says.  “What Congress did here really is unprecedented,” Clement
said later on Bloomberg Television’s “Conversations with  Judy
Woodruff .” “Whether it’s medical care or something else,
Congress has never before forced somebody to engage in a
commercial transaction in the name of trying to regulate the
resulting transactions.”  The law would expand coverage to an estimated 32 million
Americans who lack insurance, largely through an expansion of
the federal-state  Medicaid program  for the poor and by setting
up “exchanges,” where consumers will be able to buy insurance.  The cases are  National Federation of Independent Business 
v. Sebelius, 11-393;  Department of Health  and Human Services v.
 Florida , 11-398; and Florida v. Department of Health and Human
Services, 11-400.  Bloomberg LP is the parent of Bloomberg Law and Bloomberg
News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  