-- ECB Is Said to Swap Greek Bonds for New Debt to Avoid Any Enforced Losses
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-02-17T12:27:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/ecb-said-to-swap-greek-bonds-for-new-debt-to-avoid-loss-from-restructuring.html
The  European Central Bank  is
swapping its Greek bonds for new ones to ensure it isn’t forced
to take losses in a debt restructuring, three euro-area
officials said.  The Frankfurt-based ECB is exchanging its Greek bonds for
bonds of an identical structure and nominal value, the only
difference being that they would be exempt from so-called
collective action clauses, the officials said late yesterday on
condition of anonymity. One said the bonds have a face value of
about 50 billion euros ($65 billion). An ECB spokesman declined
to comment. Giorgios Zanias, chairman of the Council of Economic
Advisors to the Greek Finance Ministry, didn’t respond to calls
to his mobile phone.  The move may be completed by Monday, the officials said.
That could pave the way for a private-sector bond swap that aims
to slice about 100 billion euros off  Greece ’s debt as the
embattled nation struggles to stave off default. Euro-area
finance ministers convene in Brussels on Feb. 20 to discuss a
second bailout for Greece that includes a debt-swap agreement.  An exemption from collective action clauses, or CACs, would
mean the ECB would not have to participate should the Greek
government impose involuntary losses on bondholders. That may
occur if not enough private creditors agree to a voluntary swap.  ‘More Equal Than Others’  Greece will submit legislation to parliament on Feb. 21 to
allow the use of CACs in a debt-swap process that will start on
Feb. 22 and conclude on March 9, Athens-based Naftemporiki
newspaper reported today.  CACs typically make all bondholders subject to losing part
of their capital in a retrospective action that does not require
the assent of all lenders. The officials said the new Greek
bonds the ECB will receive in exchange for its old ones are
exempt from CACs.  “In  Europe , all bond holders are equal, but the ECB is
more equal than others, apparently,” said Thomas Costerg, an
economist at Standard Chartered Bank in  London . “This could set
a dangerous precedent, and, by creating a de-facto two-tier
market, this could discourage investment in other peripheral
debt markets.”  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann didn’t support the ECB’s
decision to swap the bonds on concern the move would prompt
legal action by other Greek bondholders,  Der Spiegel  magazine
reported, citing ECB officials it didn’t name.  Credit-Default Swaps  As much as $3.2 billion of credit-default swap insurance is
at risk of being triggered if CACs are used, according to data
from the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp., which runs a central
registry for the market. The introduction of CACs doesn’t in
itself trigger default swaps, though using them does, according
to rules of the  International Swaps & Derivatives Association .  Exempting the ECB from a debt restructuring may weaken the
euro as it implies a senior status over other investors,  Chris Walker , a foreign-exchange strategist at UBS AG in London, wrote
in a research report today.  “The risk of a voluntary restructuring morphing into a
coercive one has arguably increased significantly,” Walker
wrote. “If this ECB plan goes ahead it may appear that the ECB
is receiving preferential treatment, raising questions about
whether the ECB is senior to private-sector bondholders, not
only in the case of Greek debt, but also regarding the debt of
other euro-zone nations that the ECB may be purchasing.”  Bond Purchases  The ECB began purchasing Greek government debt in May 2010
as part of its  Securities Markets Program (ECBCSMP) , which is aimed at
restoring the transmission of monetary policy on financial
markets distorted by the sovereign debt crisis. Since then, it
has bought bonds including those of Spain, Portugal and  Italy 
totaling 219.5 billion euros.  The ECB is barred by its founding treaty from directly
financing governments. Taking a loss, or haircut, on its Greek
bond holdings would amount to so-called monetary state
financing, ECB President  Mario Draghi  said on Feb. 9.  Germany ’s Die Welt newspaper reported the bond swap
yesterday and said it would result in a profit for the ECB,
which it could then distribute via national central banks to
governments.  In fact, the swap is separate from the ECB’s deliberations
to contribute in some way to reducing Greece’s debt load, the
three officials said.  The ECB has signaled it may distribute to national central
banks any profits from its Greek bond holdings when they mature,
so that they can pass that cash on to governments to help with
the Greek bailout. This remains a possible course of action, the
officials said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  