-- ECB Monthly Bulletin Editorial for February (Text)
-- B y   H a r u m i   I c h i k u r a
-- 2012-02-16T09:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/ecb-monthly-bulletin-editorial-for-february-text-.html
The following is the text
of the European Central Bank’s February monthly bulletin:  Based on its regular economic and monetary analyses, the
Governing Council decided at its meeting on 9 February to keep
the key ECB  interest rates  unchanged. The information that has
become available since mid-January broadly confirms the
Governing Council’s previous assessment. Inflation is likely
to stay above 2% for several months to come, before declining
to below 2%. Available survey indicators confirm some
tentative signs of a stabilisation in economic activity at a
low level around the turn of the year, but the economic outlook
remains subject to high uncertainty and downside risks. The
underlying pace of monetary expansion remains subdued. Looking
ahead, it is essential for monetary policy to maintain  price
stability  for the euro area as a whole. This ensures a firm
anchoring of inflation expectations in line with the Governing
Council’s aim of maintaining inflation rates below, but close
to, 2% over the medium term. Such anchoring is a prerequisite
for monetary policy to make its contribution to supporting
economic growth and  job creation  in the euro area. A very
thorough analysis of all incoming data and developments over
the period ahead is warranted.  Through its non-standard monetary policy measures the
Governing Council will continue to support the functioning of
the euro area financial sector, and thus the financing of the
real economy. Since the first three-year longer-term
refinancing operation (LTRO) was conducted in December 2011
the Governing Council has approved specific national
eligibility criteria and risk control measures for the
temporary acceptance in a number of countries of additional
credit claims as collateral in Eurosystem credit operations,
which should lead to an increase in available collateral.1 At
the start of the current reserve maintenance period on 18
January 2012 the reserve ratio was reduced, freeing up
additional collateral. As stated on previous occasions, all
non-standard measures are temporary in nature.  With regard to the economic analysis, real GDP growth in the
fourth quarter of 2011 is likely to have been very weak.
According to the survey data for the last two months, there
are tentative signs of a stabilisation in economic activity
at a low level. Looking ahead, the Governing Council expects
the euro area economy to recover very gradually in the course
of 2012. The very low short-term interest rates and all the
measures taken to foster the proper functioning of the euro
area financial sector are lending support to the euro area
economy. Moreover, stress in financial markets has diminished
in response to the Governing Council’s monetary policy
measures, but also in response to the progress made towards
a stronger euro area governance framework and intensified
fiscal consolidation in several euro area countries. However,
subdued global demand growth, the remaining tensions in euro
area sovereign debt markets and their impact on credit
conditions, as well as the process of balance sheet adjustment
in the financial and non-financial sectors, continue to dampen
the underlying growth momentum.  This outlook is subject to downside risks. They notably relate
to tensions in euro area debt markets and their potential
spillover to the euro area real economy. Downside risks also
relate to possible adverse developments in the global economy,
higher than assumed increases in commodity prices,
protectionist pressures and the potential for a disorderly
correction of global imbalances.  Euro area annual HICP inflation was 2.7% in January 2012,
according to Eurostat’s flash estimate, unchanged from
December. The average inflation rate for 2011 was 2.7%, mainly
driven by higher energy and other commodity prices. Looking
ahead, inflation is likely to stay above 2% for several months
to come, before declining to below 2%. This pattern reflects
the expectation that, in an environment of weak growth in the
euro area and globally, underlying price pressures in the euro
area should remain limited.  Risks to the medium-term outlook for price developments remain
broadly balanced. On the upside, they relate to higher than
assumed increases in indirect taxes and administered prices,
as well as increases in commodity prices. The main downside
risks relate to the impact of weaker than expected growth in
the euro area and globally.  The monetary analysis indicates that the underlying pace of
monetary expansion remains subdued. The annual growth rate of
M3 decreased to 1.6% in December 2011, after 2.0% in November,
reflecting a further weakening of monetary dynamics towards
the end of the year.  The annual growth rates of loans to non-financial corporations
and loans to households, adjusted for loan sales and
securitisation, also decreased further in December, and stood
at 1.2% and 1.9% respectively. The volume of MFI loans to both
sectors declined in December, and this was particularly
pronounced in the case of the non-financial corporate sector.
In addition, there are indications that bank lending
conditions tightened further, affecting loan supply in several
euro area countries in late 2011. It is not yet possible to
draw firm conclusions from these developments, particularly
given that the impact of the first three-year LTRO on bank
funding is still unfolding and may not have been fully reflected
in the most recent bank lending survey. In addition, other
non-standard monetary policy measures announced in December
are still to be implemented. Accordingly, close scrutiny of
credit developments in the period ahead is essential.  The soundness of bank balance sheets will be a key factor in
facilitating an appropriate provision of credit to the economy
over time. It is essential that the implementation of banks’
recapitalisation plans does not result in developments that
are detrimental to the financing of economic activity in the
euro area.  To sum up, the economic analysis indicates that underlying
price pressures should remain limited and risks to the
medium-term outlook for price developments are broadly
balanced. A cross-check with the signals from the monetary
analysis confirms this picture.  A combination of structural reforms and fiscal discipline is
essential for boosting confidence and delivering a favourable
environment for sustainable growth. Regarding fiscal policies,
all euro area governments need to continue to do their utmost
to ensure fiscal sustainability. It is essential that all
countries adhere to the fiscal targets they announced for 2012.
This should help to anchor expectations of sound fiscal
policies and strengthen confidence. The rules guiding the
design and implementation of national fiscal policies are
being strengthened at the EU level as well as in the legal
frameworks of several  Member States . These are important steps
in the right direction. With regard to structural reforms,
these are key to increasing the adjustment capacity and
competitiveness of euro area countries, thereby strengthening
growth prospects and job creation. Notably, far-reaching and
ambitious reforms should be implemented to foster competition
in product markets, particularly in services sectors, while
rigidities in labour markets should be reduced and wage
flexibility should be enhanced.  This issue of the Monthly Bulletin contains three articles.
The first article analyses patterns in average money and credit
growth around the time of past economic and financial crises.
The second article describes developments in the debt ratios
of non-financial corporations in the euro area. The third
article reviews the role of the euro area in global cross-border
finance before and after the global financial crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Harumi Ichikura in London at 
 hichikura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  