-- Ecopetrol Profit Rising 64% Beats Estimates as Output Gains
-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 2012-02-16T15:13:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/ecopetrol-profit-rising-64-beats-estimates-as-output-gains.html
Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL) , Colombia’s largest oil
company, said fourth-quarter profit jumped 64 percent, beating
analysts’ estimates, as crude production climbed.  Net income rose to 4.44 trillion pesos ($2.47 billion) from
2.70 trillion pesos a year earlier, the Bogota-based  company 
said yesterday in a statement. Profit exceeded the 4.36
trillion-peso average estimate of five analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Production rose to 741,700 barrels of oil and natural gas a
day in the quarter, from 651,300 barrels a year earlier, the
company said after the close of regular trading.  Ecopetrol is investing $80 billion through 2020 to increase
production to 1.3 million barrels a day. The government-
controlled company will stay on track for that goal as long as
it discovers new  oil fields , Santiago Melo, an analyst at
brokerage Alianza Valores SA, said by telephone from Bogota.  “They’re on their way,” Melo, who doesn’t own Ecopetrol
stock, said after the report was published. “There are still
challenges with building reserves.”  Rising profit at Ecopetrol may prompt the government to
postpone selling a stake in the company, Nicolas Bernal, an
analyst at brokerage Ultrabursatiles SA, said Feb. 14 in a
telephone interview from Bogota. The government is in “no
rush” to sell its stake in Ecopetrol, Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry told analysts Feb. 8. The government owns 88.5
percent.  Dividends  Ecopetrol rose 0.3 percent to 4,825 pesos at 9:32 a.m. in
Bogota. Shares have climbed 14 percent this year as of
yesterday, compared with a 6.7 percent gain in Colombia’s
benchmark  Colcap (COLCAP)  stock index.  Profit last year of 15.5 trillion pesos will lead the
company to increase dividends, Melo said. Alianza has a “buy”
rating on Ecopetrol. The company’s dividend yield is about 5.5
percent at current stock prices and based on historical payouts,
higher than many  oil companies , brokerage Interbolsa SA said
today in a note.  Ecopetrol plans to invest $11 billion this year on
exploration, production, pipelines and refineries. The company
last month agreed to buy a 30 percent stake in an exploration
block in the Peruvian Amazon from a unit of Repsol YPF SA.  Ecopetrol’s second-largest refinery this month will begin
tapping a $2.8 billion loan from the U.S. Export-Import Bank as
it more than doubles capacity within two years, the refinery’s
Chief Executive Orlando Cabrales said in a Feb. 2 interview.
Reficar, as the Cartagena, Colombia-based refinery is known,
will spend more than $4 billion by 2014 to expand.  Colombia  is South America’s third-largest crude producer
after Venezuela and  Brazil . The nation’s output has risen as
improved security draws investors including billionaires  Carlos
Slim  and  Eike Batista .  Colombia expects about $10 billion in international
spending in crude, mining and energy projects this year, similar
to last year’s foreign investments, Mines Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  said in interview last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  