-- Hedge Funds Forgiven for Slump as Insurers Shun Low-Yield Bonds
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-02-16T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/hedge-funds-forgiven-for-slump-by-insurers-shunning-low-yield-bond-wagers.html
Hedge funds are being spared
punishment for their 2011 performance as insurers that suffered
last year with lower-than-expected returns decide they won’t be
able to do much better in the  bond market .  Policyholder-owned insurer FM Global plans to boost the
allocation to hedge funds in its $10.5 billion portfolio this
year, after the bets “didn’t really deliver too well” in 2011,
said Paul LaFleche, the company’s senior vice president of
investments. The funds provide diversification and historically
had attractive returns, he said.  Last year’s slump raised the questions, “Are these
absolute-return vehicles? Have they outlived their usefulness?”
said LaFleche. “The very  volatile , whipsaw conditions are what
caused hedge funds to produce almost nothing last year. So I
think you can get those upper single-digit returns, and I’d much
rather put some money there than in fixed-income.”  Low  interest rates  have pressured results for insurers,
which rely on bonds to back obligations to policyholders and
generate income. Investment managers at the companies are
seeking to maintain portfolio yields as securities with higher
coupons mature and the Federal Reserve pledges to keep its
 benchmark rate  low through late 2014.  Overall, clients deposited a net $70.7 billion throughout
2011 in hedge funds as the investment vehicles lost an average
of about 5 percent amid swings in global markets, Chicago-based
Hedge Fund Research Inc. said last month. Last year’s
performance was the worst for hedge funds since 2008, when they
sank 19 percent, Bloomberg aggregate hedge fund  index data  show.  ‘Edging Higher’  FM Global currently holds about 2 percent of its portfolio
in hedge funds, an amount that’s been “edging higher” and will
climb in 2012, said LaFleche. The strategies within the
portfolio are selected by asset managers at  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , he said.  Insurers have shown interest in high yielding credit
strategies such as distressed debt and mezzanine, and macro and
tactical trading funds, said Mike Siegel, who heads the Goldman
Sachs Asset Management business overseeing $75 billion in
general account funds for insurers.  “I don’t think 2011 performance has deterred interest in
the asset class,” he said in an interview. “They’re re-looking
at their asset allocations across the board.”  Distressed credit managers trade debt of companies or
government entities in, or headed for, default or bankruptcy.
Mezzanine debt, the layer of funding between common equity and
bank loans, tends to yield more than comparable securities
because it ranks behind other obligations in the event of
default.  Private Equity  Discretionary global macro managers trade anything from
currencies to interest rates and bonds to profit from broad
economic trends. Tactical trading refers to strategies that
speculate on the direction of asset prices.  Insurers’ holdings of hedge fund and private-equity
investments climbed 19 percent to $55.4 billion in 2010,
building on a 4.3 percent increase a year earlier, according to
the  National Association of Insurance Commissioners , which
collects information on firms’ U.S. holdings. The association
doesn’t yet have 2011 data.  Beazley Plc (BEZ) , a Lloyd’s of London insurer, has about 10
percent of its $4 billion portfolio invested in hedge funds. The
company plans to keep its allocation after a “small loss” on
the holdings last year. Returns on the investments “compared
favorably” with Hedge Fund Research’s fund of funds index, the
Dublin-based insurer said in a Feb. 7 statement.  Beazley Comfortable  “We’ve got a ceiling of around 13 percent so it’s sitting
close to where the maximum could possibly be,” said Chief
Executive Officer Andrew Horton in an Feb. 7 interview. “We’re
comfortable where we are.” The insurer keeps the majority of
its investment portfolio in bonds such as sovereign debt. Its
assets returned about 1 percent last year.  Warren Buffett , the billionaire chairman of  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , is among insurance executives who have said
fixed-income bets are risky based on near record-low interest
rates and the prospect of inflation. The yield on 10-year
Treasuries has been below the U.S. inflation rate since May.  “As long as companies keep money tied up in  government
securities , over time they’re destroying value,” Goldman
Sachs’s Siegel said. “That’s troubling to many of these
companies, so that’s why you’re seeing the focus on, ‘Where do
I invest to get a positive after-tax return on my assets.’”  Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. (HIG) , the life and
property-casualty insurer that counts billionaire  John Paulson 
among its largest investors, has been using proceeds from some
maturing bonds to boost hedge fund bets. Hartford, based in the
 Connecticut  city of the same name, had $824 million in the funds
as of Sept. 30, compared with $435 million three months earlier,
according to the most recent regulatory filings.  Low Correlation  Gregory McGreevey, the insurer’s former chief investment
officer, said in September that the company was looking to
invest in funds that had low correlations with the broad fixed-
income and equity markets. The insurer added staff to allocate
the investments, targeting discretionary macro funds as well as
long-short credit and equity funds, he said at the time.  Hedge funds gained  2.6 percent  in January, according to
Hedge Fund Research, as equities around the world had the best
start in 18 years. The investments may be attractive to insurers
because the funds are more liquid than other alternatives to
bonds, such as  private-equity  and real estate, said Daniel Celeghin, a partner at Casey Quirk & Associates LLC in Darien,
Connecticut, which advises asset-management firms.  “Their view is, on the margin, if we’re going to
reallocate, or allocate away from traditional fixed-income
assets, we don’t want to give up too much liquidity,” Celeghin
said. “And so you’re left with hedge funds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  