-- Megaupload Founder Kim Dotcom Fails to Win Bail Bid in New Zealand Court
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-02-16T03:59:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/megaupload-founder-kim-dotcom-fails-to-win-bail-bid-in-new-zealand-court.html
Megaupload.com  founder Kim Dotcom,
imprisoned in  New Zealand  since Jan. 20 at the request of the
U.S., failed to win release today after a judge declined to
immediately rule on the bail bid.  North Shore District Court Judge N. R. Dawson today said he
would deliver his decision before Feb. 22, according to an e-
mailed statement from the court.  Dotcom, 38, is sought in the U.S. where he was indicted in
the biggest copyright infringement conspiracy in the country’s
history. He faces charges his file-sharing website exchanged
pirated film and music files worth $175 million.  North Shore District Judge David McNaughton on Jan. 25
denied Dotcom’s request for bail, saying the risk of him fleeing
New Zealand to a jurisdiction such as his home country of
 Germany , which has no extradition treaty with the U.S., was too
great.  Dotcom, who legally changed his family name from Schmitz,
sought to overturn that decision at a hearing today. He had
earlier “emphatically” denied any criminal misconduct, in a
statement to the court, according to McNaughton’s ruling.  “It is submitted that this is the largest prosecution to
date for infringement of copyright in the United States,”
McNaughton said in the ruling. “The offending is described as
unprecedented and most serious.”  When police arrived at Dotcom’s house on Jan. 20, he
activated electronic locks and sought refuge in a safe room, New
Zealand police said in a statement. Police neutralized locks and
cut their way into the safe room, where Dotcom was sitting
cross-legged on the floor near a safe that contained a loaded
shotgun.  The U.S. has 45 days from the arrest date to file a formal
extradition request.  The case is Kim Dotcom v.  United States  of America. DCNSD
[25 January 2012]. District Court at North Shore ( Albany ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  