-- Egypt-U.S. Rift May Imperil IMF Funding as Reserves Threaten Currency Run
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-02-19T08:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/egypt-u-s-rift-may-imperil-imf-funding-as-reserves-threaten-currency-run.html
Egypt ’s politicians and media are
issuing ever-louder accusations of American meddling just as the
country seeks loans from the  International Monetary Fund , where
the U.S. is the biggest shareholder.  “America is behind the chaos,” blared a red headline on
the front page of state-run Al-Gomhuria newspaper last week. The
Muslim Brotherhood said U.S. money was being spent “to destroy
Egypt and ruin its society.” The dispute over the prosecution
of employees at U.S.-based NGOs, accused of breaking rules on
foreign financing, has opened the deepest rift for decades
between the military allies. It’s happening as the government
prepares to submit an economic program to parliament that will
be the basis for its application for a $3.2 billion IMF credit.  Egypt needs the money to help an economy in stagnation
since last year’s uprising against  Hosni Mubarak . Tourists and
investors have stayed away and the central bank, seeking to
avert a currency crisis, spent more than half its reserves. Bond
yields rose this month amid investor concern that a worsening
dispute with the U.S. will complicate efforts to raise funds.  The rift “adds fuel to the fire and can negatively affect
the conditions under which Egypt might obtain an IMF program,”
said Sergey Dergachev, who helps manage $8.5 billion of
emerging-market assets at Union Investment Privatfonds in
 Frankfurt . “The IMF is still very much dominated by the U.S.”  $11 Billion Needed  Finance Minister Momtaz El-Saieed said this month that
Egypt needs $11 billion to “fund economic reforms.” Prime
Minister Kamal el-Ganzouri has repeatedly said that Egypt hasn’t
received money pledged by western and Arab countries.  Foreign
reserves (EGIRES)  plunged to $16.4 billion in January, covering little
more than three months of imports.  Yields on Egyptian dollar bonds maturing in 2020 rose to
7.31 percent last week, up 57 basis points since Jan. 26, when
the State Department said several U.S. citizens had been
questioned by Egyptian judges. Yields surged to a record 8.79
percent earlier last month before retreating when the government
reversed course and announced it would apply for IMF loans that
it rejected last year.  Americans charged in the case include Cairo staff from the
National Democratic Institute and the International Republican
Institute, non-governmental organizations allied with the
Republican and Democratic parties. Sam LaHood, son of
Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood, was among them. Barred from
traveling, several took refuge at the U.S. Embassy compound.  ‘Patriotic’ Stance  Egyptian leaders say they can’t intervene in what is a
matter for the judiciary. El-Ganzouri said Feb. 8 he won’t bow
to U.S. pressure even at the expense of aid.  The U.S. has given Egypt some $2 billion a year on average,
mostly to the military, since it signed a peace treaty with
Israel in 1979, and promised extra assistance to back the
transition to democracy after Mubarak’s fall. The U.S. warned
that the NGO dispute may threaten aid.  The  Muslim Brotherhood , whose bloc won almost half the
seats in parliamentary elections ending last month, hailed what
it said was the government’s “patriotic” position.  Mohamed Morsi, who heads the Brotherhood’s political party,
said in a video on the group’s website that annual U.S. aid is
linked to the treaty with Israel, and suggested that cutting it
could lead to a review of the accord.  This week’s newspaper headlines cited Planning and
International Cooperation Minister Fayza Aboulnaga telling
investigators about the threat from U.S. NGOs. A holdover of
Mubarak’s regime who survived successive Cabinet purges,
Aboulnaga is widely seen as the driving force behind the case.  Assistance Threatened  “At a time when Egypt needs as much international
assistance it can get, this assistance is threatened by the very
existence of Fayza Aboulnaga at the top of that ministry,” said
 Shadi Hamid , director of research at the Brookings Doha Center
in Qatar. “Perhaps she doesn’t realize the irony: attacking
NGOs for receiving American funds, while her government receives
more than $1.3 billion in aid annually.”  Aboulnaga said she was being subjected to a campaign of
defamation, according to the Cairo-based Al Masry Al Youm
newspaper. She told Bloomberg in Cairo last week that the NGO
dispute won’t affect Egypt’s “strategic relationship” with the
U.S. or talks with the IMF.  Asked about concern that Egypt’s dispute with the U.S. may
affect its loan prospects, the IMF said in an e-mailed statement
that “the success of the authorities’ economic program hinges
critically on broad political support from a cross-section of
stakeholders in Egypt, as well as financial support from
multilateral and bilateral development partners.”  Donors Await IMF  A holdup in the IMF loan could block other sources of
support.  “Many donors are waiting for an IMF deal to be put in
place first,” said Michael Cirami, who helps manage $12 billion
at Boston-based Eaton Vance. “It’s hard to envision the U.S.
participating as a donor while at the same time U.S. NGO workers
are being charged.”  The case highlighted resentment among Egyptians at U.S.
backing for Mubarak and other autocratic Arab regimes, and
perceived favoring of  Israel  over Palestinians.  Seven in 10 Egyptians surveyed by Gallup in December oppose
American economic aid to Egypt, and a similar percentage opposes
the U.S. sending direct aid to NGOs, the research company  said
this month . Aid from international institutions was more
popular, with half of respondents in favor.  Mohammed Hassan, a Salafi cleric, has called on Egyptians
to replace foreign aid with money they raise themselves.
Television channels should dedicate airtime to drum up
donations, he told the Al Nahar channel.  “Egypt is capable by the grace of God and of its men
abroad and children at home to do away with U.S. aid which has
became a cause for humiliation,” Hassan said.  ‘Completely Separate’  Some investors don’t expect the NGO dispute will have much
bearing on IMF talks.  “We believe these two issues are completely separate,”
said Rami Sidani, the Dubai-based head of  Middle East  and North
Africa investments at Schroder Investment Management. “The army
is trying to restore the relationship with the U.S., so we are
not expecting any escalation.”  The government may need to clear other hurdles. Egypt
turned down a similar loan arrangement with the IMF in June when
the ruling generals said they didn’t want to burden future
generations with debt.  The erosion of reserves since then has made Egypt’s
financial needs more acute. Another change, though, is the
election of the first post-Mubarak parliament, which will need
to approve an IMF loan agreement.  Essam el-Erian, a leader of the Brotherhood’s party, says
his group may vote against it, unless it is convinced there are
no alternatives. He said Egypt should trim spending, and cited
the risks of borrowing abroad.  “Look at  Greece ,” el-Erian said in an interview.
“Everybody is telling it what to do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  