-- Lehman Brothers Estimates Available Creditor Cash Amounts to $18 Billion
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-02-16T14:25:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/lehman-brothers-estimates-available-creditor-cash-is-about-18-billion.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., which
is planning its first payment to creditors after more than three
years in bankruptcy, said it has about $18 billion of cash
available for distribution.  The defunct investment bank estimated that allowed claims
of general unsecured creditors are about $284 billion. In
theory, Lehman said it could distribute $12 billion to $14.7
billion of cash initially, depending on how much it needs to
keep in reserve for disputed claims, according to a filing in
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan  yesterday. The cash holdings
are based on year-end numbers, it said.  Lehman, whose creditors range from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
to individual bondholders, said the calculations were
“illustrative” only. Last month, Lehman said it may initially
distribute $8.1 billion to $10.7 billion in a payment planned
for this quarter.  To boost the payment to the higher end of the range, Lehman
has asked a judge to let it keep non-cash assets as reserves for
disputed claims. It is in talks with large claimholders to try
to win their agreement for the plan, Lehman told the judge at a
court hearing yesterday.  Last month, Lehman said it would make a total of about $56
billion in distributions over the next few years. It put
disputed claims at $112 billion.  Previously, Lehman Chief Executive Officer Bryan Marsal has
said he intends to raise $65 billion from the firm’s assets in
the next few years, giving the average creditor less than 18
cents on the dollar for estimated claims of $370 billion.  Lehman, which in 2008 filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S.
history, has winnowed down claims from 67,000 filed originally
demanding about $1.2 trillion from what was once the fourth-
largest investment bank. It filed for bankruptcy with $613
billion in debt under former Chairman Richard Fuld.  The case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  