-- Lehman Crisis Veterans Say Europe Shouldn’t Push Greece Too Far
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-02-17T12:23:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/lehman-crisis-veterans-warn-europe-leaders-against-provoking-greek-default.html
Neel Kashkari, who was on the policy
frontlines when Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. crumpled in 2008,
warns European governments against pushing  Greece  too far as
they impose conditions for aid.  “It can be very politically satisfying to be tough, but if
an uncontrolled default were to lead to contagion around the
euro zone, that could be very damaging for all of Europe and for
the global economy,” said Kashkari, who four years ago was an
aide to then-U.S. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson and now is
head of global equities at Pacific Investment Management Co.  Kashkari is not alone among the Treasury veterans who
fought the worst financial turmoil since the Great Depression
and now say the euro area should be careful of taking too hard a
line with Greece. Their battle-seasoned advice: Avoid
encouraging a default unless first acting to ensure foreign
economies and banks are protected from the aftershocks.  “This seems like brinkmanship on the part of the European
leaders,” said  Phillip Swagel , the Treasury’s former chief
economist, who now teaches at the University of  Maryland  in
 College Park . “The better approach is to prepare for a future
failure so they have a more credible threat to allow Greece to
default and possibly leave the euro zone.”  First Default  The likelihood of the euro-area’s first default in its 13-
year history is growing by the day as Greece faces a March 20
bond redemption totaling 14.5 billion euros ($19 billion). While
the nation’s political leaders have signed up for fiscal
retrenchment and detailed 325 million euros in new budget cuts
for this year, euro-area governments have yet to approve a
second bailout of 130 billion euros.  The tactics reflect irritation that Greece backed down on
commitments pledged to win a 110 billion euro rescue in 2010,
and they suggest greater confidence in Europe’s ability to
withstand a default by the Mediterranean nation. German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said Feb. 13 that “we’re better
prepared than two years ago.”  “The case for going ahead with the second package is that
the alternative is worse,” said Nicola Mai, an economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in London. “But to the extent that some
policy makers think they have ring-fenced the consequences of
default and euro exit, then in their minds the case for going
ahead is weaker.”  Greek Impact  European governments now have a rescue fund and regional
banks have reduced their exposure to Greece to just 1 percent of
the euro-area’s gross domestic product,  Julian Jessop , chief
global economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in London, said in a
report yesterday. Greece also accounts for less than 0.5 percent
of global GDP and has $455 billion in debt, compared to the $7.5
trillion U.S. mortgage market which was roiled in 2008, he said.  “I haven’t seen arguments that I would consider credible
that the Greek government defaulting on its debt obligations
would so damage the rest of  Europe  that the creditors must
eliminate the risk of default,” said  Keith Hennessey , who
directed President George W. Bush’s National Economic Council in
2008 and now teaches at  Stanford University  in  California .  After wrangling over Greece at a Feb. 9 meeting and on a
Feb. 15 conference call, euro area finance chiefs reconvene in
Brussels in three days to discuss extending more aid and kicking
off a bond exchange to stop it from reneging on its debts. If
Greece meets the aid conditions, the package will probably be
approved, three German officials said yesterday.  Emergency Loans  “Europe is still more likely than not to rescue Greece
from disorderly default,” said  Christian Schulz , an economist
at Berenberg Bank in London.  The drawn-out debate has sparked vitriol from  Athens , with
Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos accusing richer European
nations of “playing with fire” by toying with the idea of
dismissing Greece from the euro. Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos 
nevertheless said Feb. 12 that the economic pain of austerity
measures is “contained in comparison to the economic and social
catastrophe that will follow if we don’t adopt them.”  The concern among U.S. officials past and present is Europe
risks failing to heed lessons from the failure of  Lehman
Brothers , which triggered chaos in which financial institutions
lost or wrote off almost $1 trillion, the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index fell 40 percent in six months and the global economy
slumped into the deepest recession since World War II.  ‘Messy Way’  “The one thing we should take away from Lehman Brothers is
you don’t want a big systemic institution to fail in a messy
way, and you clearly don’t want that to happen with a member
state,” Paulson told CNBC on Feb. 15. “So when you look at
Greece, I think it’s important that if there is a problem that
it’s well anticipated and it doesn’t happen in a sloppy sudden
way.”  The 2008 crisis-fighters still in office are also pressing
European policy makers to bolster their defenses and will likely
make their case when finance chiefs from the Group of 20 meet
next week in Mexico City.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Feb. 2 that
“there is an awful lot that remains to be done in Europe”
given its banking system is under-capitalized. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , who in 2008 was president of the
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York , is urging European governments
to build a “stronger firewall” of cash to insulate larger
debt-ridden economies such as Spain and Italy.  There remains a “tangled web” in Europe, which means
lawmakers and investors shouldn’t be sanguine about a Greek
default, said  Ethan Harris , co-head of global economic research
at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in New York, who previously
worked at Lehman Brothers.  French Banks  Bank for International Settlements data from toward the end
of last year suggest French banks alone had a $56.7 billion
exposure to Greece as a whole and $15 billion to its government,
while the U.S. had ties totaling $7.3 billion and $1.5 billion
respectively, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  “History shows that when a country defaults it usually
causes a default on most foreign claims,” Harris said.  The other concern is that as Greece goes so might others,
potentially leading to the breakup of the single currency. In a
January analysis of credit default swaps, Danny Gabay, director
of London-based Fathom Financial Consulting, found if Greece
defaults Portugal faces more than a 60 percent chance of
following. If that happens then the odds narrow that Ireland,
Spain, Italy and perhaps even  France  could tumble like dominos.  Systemic Problem  “Letting Greece go or -- worse still -- forcing it out,
will not solve anything,” said Gabay. “It is effectively the
Lehman strategy. It is a systemic problem and is not confined to
just one or even several of the errant countries.”  “The contagion from the collapse of Europe’s banking
system to the global financial system would be swift and
devastating,” he said.  For Kashkari, a Greek default now remains too big a risk.
While the ECB’s issuance of three-year loans has stabilized
banks, he says the central bank may need to directly fund some
countries, or governments should increase the size of their
rescue funds.  Leaders already are scheduled in March to reassess the
planned combined aid limit of 500 billion euros which takes
effect in July when a permanent rescue fund begins.  “How is the ECB and the EU going to protect Italy and
Spain and build a firewall around them? We don’t have clarity on
that fact yet” said Kashkari. “If the fears spread to Spain
and Italy, those all of a sudden could become Lehman moments.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net 
Simon Kennedy in  London  at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ; 