-- Advance America Surges on Mexican Billionaire’s $655 Million Takeover Bid
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-02-16T21:45:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/elektra-agrees-to-buy-advance-america-to-provide-u-s-loans-1-.html
Advance America Cash Advance Centers
Inc. (AEA)  jumped the most in more than seven years after  Grupo
Elektra SAB (ELEKTRA*)  agreed to acquire the payday lender for $655
million, stretching the low-income loans empire of Mexican
billionaire Ricardo Salinas into the U.S.  Elektra, the retail and banking company 70 percent owned by
Salinas, will pay $10.50 a share for Advance America, the Mexico
City-based company said yesterday in a statement. That’s a  33
percent premium  to yesterday’s closing stock price. Including
debt, the transaction is valued at $780 million, Elektra said.  Salinas, 56, seeks to provide financial services to “the
bottom of the pyramid” in the U.S., targeting households with
less than $25,000 in annual income, he said in a November
interview. In  Latin America , Elektra offers loans of an average
size of $400, a business that has helped make Salinas Mexico’s
fourth-richest man, with a net worth of $8.2 billion, according
to Forbes magazine.  “It’s an opportunity for us to have a footprint in a
market that is expanding,” Bruno Rangel, executive director of
 investor relations  for Elektra, said yesterday in a phone
interview. The  acquisition , expected to close in the first half
of this year, will boost sales and profits, he said.  Elektra operates in eight Latin American countries. Advance
America has 2,600 locations in 29 U.S. states, the U.K. and
 Canada , it said. Elektra will pay for the transaction with about
$300 million in cash and the rest in  debt , some of it yet to be
issued, Rangel said.  Interest Rates  Advance America climbed 32 percent to $10.44 at the close
in  New York . The Spartanburg, South Carolina-based company has
45 days to solicit better bids from other parties. The gain was
the most since Dec. 16, 2004. Elektra rose 2 percent to 1,159.05
pesos in Mexico City.  The acquisition will once again put Salinas under the
scrutiny of U.S. regulators. Payday lending is a focus for the
newly created U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.  In Latin America, Elektra’s Banco Azteca unit charges
 interest rates  high enough that customers in some cases end up
paying double the amount of the original loan over its full
term, Salinas said in November.  That’s necessary to cover the costs of offering the loans,
since the bank’s more than 8,000  loan officers  have to determine
 credit quality  and collect interest payments, sometimes
following up on delinquent clients with personal visits, he
said.  Loan Deals  The billionaire, who also controls broadcaster TV Azteca
SAB and mobile-phone carrier Grupo Iusacell SA, agreed in
September 2006 to pay a  fine  to settle charges by the Securities
and Exchange Commission that he reaped improper profits from
undisclosed loan deals.  Salinas didn’t admit or deny the allegations when he agreed
to the settlement, according to the SEC. He delisted his
companies from U.S. trading after the SEC’s suit.  Stephens Inc. was Elektra’s financial adviser, and Paul
Weiss Rifkind Wharton & Garrison LLP was its legal counsel.
Advance America got financial advice from  Wells Fargo & Co . and
legal counsel from K&L Gates LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  