-- Telenet Sees Stable Cash Generation, Will Pay First Dividend
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-02-16T16:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/telenet-sees-stable-cash-generation-will-pay-first-dividend.html
Telenet Group Holding NV (TNET) , the
Belgian cable operator controlled by  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA) ,
forecast cash generation will trail growth in earnings this year
because of network upgrades, payments for soccer rights and
higher interest expenses.  Free  cash flow  will be little changed from 246.3 million
euros ($321.5 million) last year, the Mechelen, Belgium-based
company said today in a statement. Telenet forecast  2012 sales 
and earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization
will both rise 5 percent to 6 percent.  Telenet generated 4.5 percent  less cash  available for
shareholder distributions last year. It increased spending to
acquire Belgian soccer broadcast rights, switch over customers
to its Fibernet broadband product and faced higher interest
expenses because of additional debt and an extension of
maturities. The cable operator said it will raise its  payout  to
about 533 million euros, with a first dividend of 1 euro a
share, an additional 3.25 euros-a-share capital reduction and a
50 million-euro stock buyback.  “We spoke to our investors and all of them, including our
controlling shareholder, said they prefer a distribution that’s
spread over time,” Chief Financial Officer Renaat Berckmoes
told reporters in Mechelen today. Telenet said the dividend will
be payable in May and plans a capital reduction in September,
subject to shareholders’ approval.  Fourth-quarter earnings before interest, tax, depreciation
and amortization jumped 12 percent to 182.6 million euros,
 surpassing  the 178.5 million-euro average of eight analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue growth accelerated to
8.9 percent from 5 percent in the preceding three-month period,
led by price increases, additional subscriptions for sports
broadcasts and sales of iPhone 4S handsets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  