-- Emerging Stocks Drop Most This Week as Greece Delay Dims Outlook
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-02-16T22:04:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/emerging-stocks-slump-to-one-week-low-on-greece-delay-china-investment.html
Emerging-market stocks sank, pushing
the benchmark index down the most this week, as a delay on
Greece’s second bailout and less foreign investment in  China 
dimmed the outlook for the global economy and riskier assets.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  fell 0.9 percent to
1,049.24 at the close in New York, the biggest drop since Feb.
10. Metals companies led declines, as  Aluminum Corp. of China
Ltd.  and  Jiangxi Copper Co. (600362)  fell the most in at least a week,
and  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (AGL)  dropped to a four-month low.  OAO
Mechel (MTLR) ,  Russia ’s largest coking coal producer, hit a one-month
low.  Brazil ’s  Bovespa index  reached the highest since April
after companies reported profit that exceeded estimates.  European governments are considering reducing rates on
emergency loans to Greece and using contributions from the
 European Central Bank  to augment a second bailout for  Athens ,
two people familiar with the discussions said. Finance ministers
are looking for solutions after seeing estimates that  Greece ’s
debt would fall to 129 percent of gross domestic product in
2020, missing the 120 percent target. Foreign direct investment
into China fell in January for the third month, Commerce
Ministry data showed.  “Today is rather influenced by a bit of disappointment
about the way discussions about Greece are going,”  John Lomax ,
an emerging-markets strategist at HSBC Holdings Plc, said by
phone from  London . “The most likely catalyst for markets
looking ahead is that these talks do in fact resolve themselves
and that Greece can manage the redemptions in the middle of
March.”  Vale Profit  Emerging-market stocks have gained 14 percent this year,
beating the 8.3 percent gain for developed-market shares. The
MSCI developing-nation index trades at 10.6 times estimated
earnings, below the 12.7 ratio for developed-country stocks on
the MSCI World gauge.  U.S. stocks  jumped and emerging-market shares pared losses
as jobless claims slid to a four-year low in the world’s largest
economy, while housing starts topped forecast. A measure of
manufacturing in the Philadelphia area expanded at the fastest
pace in four months, adding to signs of U.S. resilience.  Brazil’s  Bovespa index  gained 1.2 percent to the highest
since April 27, as state-controlled oil producer  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  jumped 3.4 percent.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  retreated 0.4 percent, the
most in more than a week. Aluminum Corp., China’s biggest
producer of the metal, lost 0.7 percent in  Shanghai , while
Jiangxi Copper dropped 1 percent.  An index of  metal prices  fell to the lowest in a month
today. The Bloomberg Forward Global Base Metal Index has gained
9.3 percent this year after slumping 22 percent last year, the
biggest annual drop since 2008.  Erste Picked  The Moscow-based  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  retreated 0.6 percent, and
Mechel lost 4.2 percent to the lowest close since Jan. 18.  The  PX Index (PX)  fell 1.1 percent in  Prague , as  Erste Group
Bank AG (RBAG)  slipped 0.8 percent. Moody’s said in a  statement  today
that it may cut the lender’s standalone and long-term debt
ratings. The move comes as part of a review of ratings at 114
financial institutions in 16 European countries, the ratings
company said.  About 44 percent of emerging-market companies tracked by
Morgan Stanley have missed analysts’ fourth-quarter earnings
estimates, compared with the 29 percent that have beaten them,
analysts  Jonathan Garner  and Pankaj Mataney wrote in a report
dated yesterday.  South Korea  Taiwan’s  Taiex Index (TWSE)  fell 1.7 percent and  South Korea ’s
 Kospi Index (KOSPI)  lost 1.4 percent, the biggest one-day drop since
Dec. 19.  Catcher Technology Co. (2474)  and  Foxconn Technology Co. (2354) , which
make casings for Apple Inc.’s iPhones, slumped more than 6
percent in Taipei after Apple shares lost 2.3 percent yesterday.  Sri Lanka ’s  Colombo All-Share Index (CSEALL)  jumped 5.1 percent, the
most since May 2009. The index has slumped 13 percent in 2012,
the most among 93 major gauges tracked by Bloomberg, as the
central bank raised  interest rates  while the government scrapped
a dollar trading band for the rupee to help preserve its
foreign-exchange reserves.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  fell five basis points, or 0.05
percentage points, to 378 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  