-- Emperor’s Surgery Highlights Scarcity of Japanese Heirs
-- B y   T e r j e   L a n g e l a n d
-- 2012-02-18T01:12:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/emperor-s-surgery-highlights-scarcity-of-eligible-japanese-heirs.html
Japanese Emperor Akihito is
undergoing heart surgery today in Tokyo, casting light on rules
that limit the line of succession to the world’s oldest
hereditary monarchy.  Akihito, 78, is having coronary bypass surgery at the
 University of Tokyo  Hospital to treat a narrowed artery, the
 Imperial Household Agency  said last week. The emperor, who had
prostate surgery in 2003 and was hospitalized with pneumonia in
November, was on medication after experiencing arterial problems
last year.  Concerns over his health have prompted the government to
consider altering the 1947 law for the world’s oldest hereditary
monarchy that mandates only men succeed to the throne and
requires princesses to give up their titles if they marry
commoners. Akihito’s grandson Hisahito in 2006 became the first
male born into the family in more than four decades, increasing
the number of potential heirs to three.  “By the time he assumes the throne, he will be the
imperial family,” Colin Jones, a law professor at Doshisha
University in Kyoto, said of the 5-year-old prince. “You’re
looking at a future where the imperial family consists of a
single nuclear family. That’s problematic in that, if he doesn’t
have a son, then what do you do?”  Crown Prince Naruhito, 51, is serving as regent during his
father’s surgery and convalescence. Naruhito, who has one
daughter, is next in line to the throne, followed by his 46-
year-old brother, Prince Akishino, and nephew Hisahito.  ‘Great Priority’  Fueling the debate is that eight of the 23 members of the
imperial  family  are single females who will have to marry
outside the bloodline, leaving fewer people to handle
traditional functions such as giving speeches and attending
events. Several aristocratic families were stripped of their
status after World War II, limiting the number of royal matches.  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  on Dec. 1 said the government
should study whether princesses should be allowed to keep their
status after marriage and called for a national debate.  The matter is “of great priority in assuring the stability
of the activities of the imperial family,” Noda told reporters.
“We are currently considering how we should move forward.”  He has made no mention of altering the law to allow women
to ascend the throne. A 2005 proposal backed by then Prime
Minister  Junichiro Koizumi  to determine succession by order of
birth regardless of sex met with opposition from his  Liberal
Democratic Party . The plan was shelved after Akishino’s wife,
Princess Kiko, became pregnant.  Backup Plan  Without changes, there may not be a backup plan if Hisahito
doesn’t have a son or is incapacitated. While the emperor’s role
is mostly symbolic,  Japan ’s  Constitution  requires him to perform
tasks including appointing the prime minister and promulgating
laws passed by the Diet.  “Monarchies have extended families just so that there’s a
source of spares,” Doshisha’s Jones said. “Over time there
will be no other members of the imperial family to act as
proxies.”  Akihito, the first Japanese emperor to serve from the
outset under the constitution imposed by the U.S. after World
War II, succeeded to the throne in 1989 after the death of his
father, Emperor Hirohito.  During a typical bypass operation, a surgeon takes a blood
vessel from the patient’s chest or leg and constructs a new
channel to allow blood to flow to the heart, circumventing the
original, clogged artery. The procedure can take three to six
hours, according to the  American Heart Association .  ‘Common Procedure’  “Bypass surgery remains a very, very common procedure
worldwide,”  Dr. Richard Shemin , chief of cardiothoracic surgery
at the Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center in  Los Angeles , said in
a phone interview. The  mortality rate  for young and healthy
patients is less than 2 percent, while risks for older patients
like the emperor may be “somewhat higher” depending on other
medical conditions, Shemin said.  Akihito’s recent health problems prompted his younger son,
Akishino, to suggest in November that Japan’s emperors be
allowed to retire once they reach a certain age. Current law
contains no such provision.  Lawmakers will need to resolve the succession issue soon,
since it may be too late to do so by the time Hisahito becomes
emperor, Jones said.  “They can’t just suddenly conjure up new imperials,” he
said. “They’ve got to do something now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terje Langeland in  Tokyo  at 
 tlangeland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  