-- Empresas Polar Affiliate Files Arbitration Against Venezuela
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s   a n d   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 2012-02-17T04:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/empresas-polar-affiliate-files-arbitration-against-venezuela-1-.html
Gambrinus Corp., a Barbados-based
affiliate of  Venezuela ’s Empresas Polar SA, yesterday said that
it filed an arbitration claim against the Venezuelan government
over the 2010 expropriation of Fertinitro, a group of fertilizer
companies.  The appeal was lodged at the World Bank’s International
Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes on Dec. 2,
according to the Washington-based arbitration court’s  website .  Gambrinus had a 10 percent ownership in Fertinitro, along
with three other co-investors including Venezuelan state
petrochemicals company Pequiven SA, European affiliates of Koch
Industries Inc. and Italian state oil company  ENI SpA (ENI) , Gambrinus
said yesterday in a statement distributed on  Business Wire .  “Since the expropriation occurred more than a year ago,
Gambrinus has unsuccessfully attempted to enter into a dialogue
with the government of Venezuela to secure a just compensation
for the nationalization of their ownerships interests in
Fertinitro,” the company said in the statement. “All efforts
at dialogue have failed.”  Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  took control of Fertinitro
in October 2010. Chavez, a 57-year-old former paratrooper who
says that he’s constructing 21st century socialism, has
nationalized assets of Irving, Texas-based Exxon Mobil Corp.,
Houston-based ConocoPhillips and Monterrey, Mexico-based cement
maker Cemex.  Chavez said Jan. 8 that Venezuela would pull out of the
ICSID, as the arbitration court is known, and not accept any of
its rulings. The court is currently considering about 20 suits
filed by companies including Exxon and ConocoPhillips against
the government.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  