-- Energy Independence Gives Opening for Renewables: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-02-16T00:04:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/energy-independence-offers-u-s-golden-chance-to-develop-renewables-view.html
Ever since the 1973 Arab oil embargo
prompted long lines at gas stations and helped tip the U.S. into
recession, energy independence has been an elusive national goal.
So it might surprise you to learn that the U.S. is now closer to
achieving energy independence than at any time since the 1950s.  As Bloomberg News reports, the U.S. met about 81 percent of
demand through domestic sources for the first 10 months of 2011.
Oil production is at its highest level in eight years, and
natural gas is so plentiful the price has plunged more than 80
percent since 2008.  Consuming less foreign oil means the nation isn’t as
beholden to the  Middle East , giving the U.S. a freer hand in its
foreign affairs and defense policy. The bonus is that energy
independence also creates jobs, increases wages and government
revenue, and reduces the trade deficit. If this pace keeps up,
the U.S. could cut oil imports by 4 million barrels a day by
2020, shaving $145 billion off the $513 billion  U.S. trade
deficit .  It’s a heady accomplishment, achieved through higher fuel-
efficiency standards and a mix of Obama administration policies
that encourage both oil and gas production and renewable fuel
use.  Weaken Resolve  But energy independence could also weaken the national
resolve to embrace clean energy. Dependence on fossil fuels,
even if produced domestically, risks squandering a decade of
renewable-energy investments. It also means losing ground in the
fight against global warming.  Lower natural  gas prices  and abundant supplies of coal make
it difficult for solar and wind startups to compete on price.
Clean-energy companies say they can go toe-to-toe in the
marketplace, but only if fossil fuels reflect the environmental
cost of  carbon emissions . With the U.S. and other large
economies preoccupied by economic recovery, putting a price on
carbon pollution is probably years away.  Still, this is an opportune moment -- in the same way that
fixing the roof is best done when the sun is shining -- to make
sure renewable energy companies thrive. The Obama administration
should, for example, continue to underwrite the development of
solar, wind and nuclear energy with research grants and loan
guarantees. We’re no fan of subsidies, and we aren’t comfortable
with the idea of bureaucrats picking winners and losers. But
there’s little doubt fledgling companies with smart ideas and
limited access to capital need government help to propel their
technology from concept to reality. Without it, they will surely
disappear.  In particular, Congress should renew the tax benefit that
provided cash grants to fund 30 percent of a solar, wind or
other renewable project. The benefit expired at the end of last
year, and lawmakers show no sign of heeding President  Barack
Obama ’s call to renew it. That’s a shame. The Treasury
Department program has provided $1.5 billion in grants to assist
more than 22,000 solar projects, which have in turn leveraged
federal money to attract more than $24 billion in private
investment. Companies can still claim a tax credit, but many
can’t take advantage of that because, without any profits, they
pay no taxes. Without the federal funds, it is unlikely that
most of the private money would have materialized.  Subsidies, of course, carry risk -- especially when new
technology is involved. Some efforts, such as the loan guarantee
given to Solyndra LLC, will fail. Solyndra was a public-
relations disaster for Obama and a $527 million loss for
taxpayers. But a recent audit of current Department of Energy
loan guarantees found no evidence that Obama donors were
influencing awards or other signs of crony capitalism. The
review also concluded that the loan guarantees will probably
show losses of about $3 billion, far less than the $10 billion
Congress has set aside.  Auditor Recommendations  The audit, by former Merrill Lynch & Co. President Herbert M. Allison Jr., offers sound recommendations to reduce the
chance of future defaults. Among them: naming a risk-management
officer to oversee the loans; strengthening the U.S. financial
position, possibly with equity stakes, if companies seek more
favorable loan terms; and developing explicit performance
standards for loans.  As we’ve said in the past, the U.S. should support research
on clean energy and direct small amounts of money to early-stage
researchers at labs and universities. Obama’s 2013 budget
includes several promising initiatives, including $2.3 billion
for renewable energy R&D, a 25 percent increase from 2012.  Being on the cusp of energy independence is truly an
impressive feat, but the U.S. can’t afford to be complacent.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 