-- Environmentalists to Contest NRC License for Southern’s Reactors
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-02-16T20:41:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/environmentalists-to-contest-nrc-license-for-southern-s-reactors.html
A group of 12 environmental groups
said it will file a court challenge to the  Nuclear Regulatory
Commission ’s decision approving  Southern Co. (SO) ’s two new reactors
in  Georgia .  The Southern Alliance for Clean Energy and 11 other
consumer and environmental groups said today they will ask the
 U.S. Court of Appeals  in Washington to block the license awarded
last week because regulators failed to fully consider the
disaster at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant in  Japan  last year.  The NRC “violated federal environmental law” when it
issued the permit, Mindy Goldstein, acting director for the
Turner Environmental Law Clinic at Emory University School of
Law and an attorney for the groups, said on a conference call
with reporters. “The environment will be irreparably harmed if
construction is allowed to proceed.”  The NRC voted 4-1 on Feb. 9 to let Atlanta-based Southern
build and operate the reactors at the Vogtle plant near Augusta,
Georgia. The agency issued a permit the next day. NRC Chairman
 Gregory Jaczko  dissented.  The regulator should complete a new environmental analysis
for the Southern reactors, the groups said in their statement.
The $14 billion Vogtle project in 2010 was awarded conditional
approval for an $8.3 billion Energy Department loan guarantee.  If upgrades to the units are needed after the NRC issues
Fukushima-related safety rules, U.S. taxpayers and utility
customers in Georgia “bear the burden of the increased costs,”
Goldstein said.  ‘Detailed, Rigorous’  “The NRC devoted tens of thousands of hours over four
years to a detailed, rigorous safety and environmental review of
the application,” Scott Burnell, an NRC spokesman, said in an
e-mail. Environmental groups weighed in and the NRC has a
“strong basis of evidence” should a court decide to review the
commission’s approval of the license, he said.  The review was “thorough, thoughtful and detailed” and
the company is “confident that the agency fully complied with
federal regulatory requirements in approving and issuing the
license and see no cause to delay construction,” Steve
Higginbottom, a Southern spokesman, said in an e-mail.  The group said it would file the court challenge later
today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  