-- ETF Rises to One-Week High on Easing Prospects: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-02-16T22:24:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/etf-rises-to-one-week-high-on-monetary-easing-prospects-china-overnight.html
The iShares FTSE China 25 Index
Fund , the biggest Chinese exchange-traded fund in the U.S., rose
to a one-week high as  China Mobile Ltd. (CHL)  and  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  jumped on
speculation of more monetary easing.  The ETF added 1.3 percent to $40.32 yesterday in New York,
the strongest close since Feb. 8, as  the Bloomberg China-US 55
Index  of Chinese equities traded in the U.S. gained 1.5 percent
to a six-month high of 109.09. Wireless network operator China
Mobile rose to the highest in three months while offshore oil
explorer Cnooc climbed to a seven-month peak.  Sina Corp. (SINA)  and
 Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  gained as Apple Inc. said it will add their
applications to its Mac operating system for Chinese users.  China may cut banks’ reserve requirements three more times
in the first half, after the central bank said this week it is
targeting greater growth in  money supply  in 2012, HSBC Holdings
Plc economists said in a report e-mailed yesterday. U.S. jobless
claims unexpectedly slipped to the lowest level in four years
last week, boosting the outlook for world demand.  “The global economy isn’t as bad as some people had
feared, which is good for China and Chinese companies,” Jeff Papp, a senior analyst in Lisle,  Illinois , at Oberweis Asset
Management Inc., which manages $700 million including Chinese
stocks, said by phone yesterday. “Most people still expect
China’s central bank will do more easing as the government has
shifted to a more accommodative mode in supporting growth.”  The People’s Bank of China, which lowered banks’ reserve-
requirement ratios for the first time since 2008 in December,
hasn’t altered the nation’s 6.56 percent lending rate since
July.  Cnooc, PetroChina  Beijing-based Cnooc’s American depositary receipts gained
2.5 percent to $232.60, the highest level since July 19,
extending their  advance  this year to 33 percent. ADRs of
 PetroChina Co. (PTR) , the nation’s biggest oil producer, climbed 1.4
percent to $150.83, taking this year’s increase to 21 percent.  Oil for March delivery rose 0.5 percent to settle at a six-
week high of $102.31 per barrel yesterday on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Prices have added 3.5 percent this year.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rose 1.1 percent to
1,358.04 after the better-than-estimated U.S. jobs data and amid
speculation that  Greece  will receive a second bailout. The
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid 0.4 percent to 2,356.86, trimming
the measure’s advance this year to 7.2 percent.  ADRs of  China Life Insurance Co. (LFC) , the country’s biggest
insurer, advanced for the second day, rising 1.4 percent to a
one-week high of $44.93. Each ADR represents 15 common shares.
The company’s premium income in January was 49.1 billion yuan
($7.8 billion), up from 43.9 billion yuan a year ago, according
to its regulatory filing to the  Hong Kong  Stock Exchange
yesterday. The ADRs traded 1.9 percent  higher  than stock in Hong
Kong, the biggest premium since Feb. 3.  China Mobile  Beijing-based China Mobile rose 1.6 percent to $52.80 in
 New York , the strongest level since Nov. 8.  Foreign direct investment in China fell for the third month
in January, declining 0.3 percent from a year earlier to $9.997
billion, Commerce Ministry data showed yesterday. Less foreign
capital coming into China will allow greater room for China to
ease credit controls, Papp at Oberweis said.  The nation’s  inflation rate  unexpectedly jumped to 4.5
percent in January, rising for the first time in six months, as
prices climbed ahead of the Chinese New Year holiday, according
to statistics bureau data released on Feb. 9.  Sina, Baidu  Sina, a Shanghai-based company that provides a Twitter-like
Weibo service in China, gained 3.5 percent to $68.69 in the U.S.  Beijing-based  Baidu (BIDU) , the country’s biggest online search
engine, climbed 2.5 percent to $141.83, the highest level since
Nov. 8. Net income for the fourth-quarter jumped 77 percent from
a year earlier to 2.05 billion yuan ($326.3 million), Baidu said
in a statement after trading closed yesterday. That beat the
average estimate of $1.99 billion of 10 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Apple will release an upgrade to its Mac operating system
later this year, adding new features for Chinese users,  Phil Schiller , the company’s senior vice president of product
marketing said in an interview yesterday. The system will
include built-in options to use Baidu’s search engine and Sina’s
Weibo service as well as the video sites of Youku Inc. and Tudou
Holdings Ltd.  China , the world’s second-largest economy,  expanded  8.9
percent in the three months ended Dec. 31, from 9.1 percent in
the previous quarter, the statistics bureau said on Jan. 17.  The Chinese government may set its lowest annual growth
target in eight years as authorities place less emphasis on the
pace of expansion and focus their efforts on economic
rebalancing,  Fan Jianping , chief economist at the government-run
State Information Center, said in an interview yesterday.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  may announce a 7 percent or 7.5 percent
target for economic growth this year at the annual National
People’s Congress meetings that convene in March, Fan said. The
last time China set a growth target below 8 percent was in 2004,
when the goal was 7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  