-- EU Seeks Early-Retirement Curbs in Plan to Rein in Pension Costs
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-02-16T10:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/eu-seeks-early-retirement-curbs-in-plan-to-rein-in-pension-costs.html
The European Union should curb
early-retirement plans and equalize pension ages for men and
women as part of efforts to cut spiraling entitlement costs and
help tame the region’s debt crisis, the EU’s top regulator said.  “The financial and economic crisis has seriously
aggravated the underlying aging challenge,” the European
Commission, the EU executive in Brussels, said today in an e-
mailed statement. “Higher  unemployment , lower growth, higher
national debt levels and financial market volatility have made
it harder for all systems to deliver on pension promises.”  Governments in the 27-nation EU are attempting to slash
their deficits and kick-start growth in their economies as part
of efforts to convince investors that the region can overcome
its debt crisis.  Greece ’s caretaker Cabinet, led by Prime
Minister  Lucas Papademos , this week made cuts to defense, public
investment and local authorities as part of efforts to win a
second international bailout.  Ten percent of  Europe ’s economic output is soaked up by
pension costs, with this figure set to rise to 12.5 percent by
2060 as the region’s population ages, the commission said.
State-pension expenditure is highest in Italy, where it is
equivalent to 15 percent of output.  Governments should consult with employers and trade unions
on mandatory retirement ages “to see how they could be
revised,” the commission said.  The statutory retirement age has become a point of
contention in France’s presidential election-campaign, with
 Francois Hollande , the Socialist candidate, pledged to reversing
an increasing in the state-pension age pushed through by current
president  Nicolas Sarkozy  in 2010. Sarkozy sought the increase
in the retirement age to sustain France’s triple-A credit
rating, which was cut by  Standard & Poor’s  last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 