-- Europe Said to Weigh ECB Role to Narrow Gap in Financing for Greek Bailout
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-02-16T19:22:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/europe-said-to-weigh-interest-rate-cuts-ecb-role-to-close-greek-debt-gap.html
European governments are considering
cutting  interest rates  on emergency loans to  Greece  and using
contributions from the  European Central Bank  to plug a new
financing gap in the second bailout program for  Athens , two
people familiar with the discussions said.  Finance ministers wrangled over how to close the funding
hole in a teleconference last night after seeing estimates that
Greece’s debt would fall to 129 percent of gross domestic
product in 2020, missing a target of 120 percent, said the
people, who declined to be named because the talks are still in
progress. Last year, the level was about 160 percent.  Overcoming the final obstacles and Greece meeting the
conditions set by euro finance chiefs yesterday may enable the
ministers’ next meeting on Feb. 20 to approve both the 130
billion-euro ($170 billion) lifeline and a bond exchange with
private investors that is critical to staving off a Greek
default in March, the German  finance ministry  told coalition
lawmakers in Berlin today, three officials said.  As recriminations fly between Greece and its northern
European creditors, the clock is ticking toward a March 20 bond
redemption when Greece must pay 14.5 billion euros or trigger
the first sovereign default in the euro’s 13-year history.  “We expect the Greeks to rise to their responsibilities,”
German Deputy Finance Minister Steffen Kampeter said today to a
group of lawyers in Hamburg. “This coming Monday, we will see
whether Greece delivers or whether we will be forced to decide
on another course of action, one that is not desired.”  Missing Targets  With Greece failing to meet financial targets, European
authorities are discussing charging it lower rates, three
officials said. Central bankers have indicated that the ECB
could funnel future profits from its Greek bond holdings to
national governments and on into the crisis program.  Greece obtained its first, 110 billion-euro loan package in
May 2010 at rates averaging 5 percent. Euro governments have
already cut that figure once, to about 4 percent in March 2011.  Central bankers have agreed that they “don’t wish to make
a profit on Greece,” ECB Governing Council member Luc Coene of
 Belgium  said this week. An ECB spokesman today declined to
comment.  French Proposal  More controversial is a proposal for national central banks
to take part in the private exchange by accepting losses on
Greek bonds in their investment portfolios.  France  is virtually
alone in backing that idea, one of the officials said.  The ECB is swapping its Greek bonds for new ones to ensure
it isn’t forced to take losses in a debt restructuring, three
euro-area officials said today.  The possible scenarios may lead to a possible two-step
decision -- authorizing the bond exchange next week and then
completing the 130 billion-euro public aid program -- that would
raise political risks by requiring two votes in some national
parliaments.  It would also turn a planned March 1-2 summit of European
leaders into a showdown over Greece, after countries including
the Netherlands and  Finland  called for delaying the full package
until after Greek elections in April or later.  The Netherlands is pushing to saddle bondholders with
bigger losses by reopening a “private sector involvement” or
PSI agreement for investors to write off roughly 100 billion
euros of Greek debt. Investors have agreed to terms with a loss
of about 70 percent of the net present value of their holdings.  Bigger Writedown  “We don’t rule out a bigger PSI, but we clearly belong to
a small minority on that point because the PSI that has been
taken is a enormously big step,” Dutch Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  told parliament in The Hague today.  The bond exchange can only go ahead once governments
authorize the European Financial Stability Facility to provide
30 billion euros, to be used in cash or collateral as an
incentive to investors.  Euro officials are targeting a window of Feb. 22 to March 9
to complete the transaction, the German lawmakers were told.  Greek leaders have no more “wiggle room” even as they
seek to maintain a minimum level of public support going into
elections that may take place in April, Deutsche Bank economists
Gilles Moec, Marco Stringa and Mark Wall wrote in a note to
clients today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Hamburg at  bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  