-- Ex-Credit Suisse Broker Butler Appeals Fraud Sentencing
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-02-17T00:40:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/ex-credit-suisse-broker-butler-appeals-his-2009-conviction.html
Former  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  broker
 Eric Butler  appealed his five-year prison sentence for
misleading clients about securities purchased on their behalf in
what prosecutors called a $1 billion fraud.  Butler, first convicted in 2009, deserves a new sentencing
hearing because he couldn’t have anticipated the collapse of the
auction-rate securities market, his lawyers said today in a
filing in the U.S. Court of Appeals in Manhattan.  “Since Mr. Butler’s sentencing, there has been independent
evidence that leaves no doubt that the collapse of the ARS
market was entirely unforeseeable and that, accordingly, Mr.
Butler’s sentence should not have been enhanced for gain,”
Butler’s lawyers wrote.  Butler also argued that the court “gave scant regard” to
mental-health treatment he received after his initial sentencing
in 2010 and work he did with children in his community.  “Mr. Butler’s post-sentencing rehabilitation is arguably
more relevant than other kinds of post-offense rehabilitation
since, having already been sentenced, there was little motive
for Mr. Butler to act as he did merely to impress the court to
engender leniency,” his lawyers said in the filing.  Institutional Clients  A federal jury in  Brooklyn , New York, convicted Butler in
August 2009 of intentionally misleading his institutional
clients, including GlaxoSmithKline Plc and Roche Holding AG,
about securities purchased on their behalf. Victims’ losses were
more than $1.1 billion, according to the government.  Butler’s partner,  Julian Tzolov , who was indicted with him,
testified against Butler. Tzolov, a native of  Bulgaria , had fled
the U.S. and was captured in  Spain  after an international
manhunt. He pleaded guilty upon his return to the U.S. and was
sentenced in June to four years in prison.  Butler and Tzolov falsely claimed that the securities they
put their clients in were backed by federally guaranteed student
loans, prosecutors said.  The men told clients the investments, actually backed by
riskier corporate debt and subprime mortgages, were a safe
alternative to bank deposits or money-market funds, witnesses
said and evidence showed.  The jury found Butler guilty of  securities fraud ,
conspiracy to commit securities fraud and conspiracy to commit
wire fraud.  Appeals Panel  The federal appeals court in  Manhattan  in June overturned
the securities-fraud conviction, saying the charge should have
been tried in federal court in Manhattan, where Credit Suisse
has its office, rather than in Brooklyn. The appeals panel
upheld the two conspiracy convictions.  Butler then got seven wire-fraud counts in Manhattan
federal court moved to Brooklyn and consented to having the
securities-fraud count there as well.  On Aug. 23, Butler pleaded guilty to those counts, which
all stemmed from the same activity, and U.S. District Judge Jack
B. Weinstein sentenced him to the same five years he had imposed
in 2010. The judge also re-imposed a $5 million fine on the
securities-fraud conviction.  Butler began serving his sentence at a federal prison in
Fort Dix,  New Jersey , in September.  The case is U.S. v. Tzolov, 08-cr-370, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of  New York  (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  