-- Mexico Studying Bankruptcy Laws on Intercompany Debts Following Vitro Case
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-02-16T21:24:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/mexico-studying-bankruptcy-laws-on-intercompany-debts-following-vitro-case.html
Mexico is studying international
best practices for corporate bankruptcy proceedings after
glassmaker Vitro SAB’s use of intercompany debt caused some
investors to question the country’s laws.  Vitro, (VITROA)  which won a Mexican court’s approval this month for
its debt restructuring plan, has called attention to a loophole
in the country’s bankruptcy process that allowed it to use loans
made to itself to qualify as its own biggest creditor.  “As we learn from experience, there may be room for
improvement,” Deputy Finance Minister  Gerardo Rodriguez  said in
a telephone interview today from Mexico City. “Looking
specifically at the standard that we have currently in our law
with regards to the voting rights of intercompany loans, there
are different practices around the world and we need to continue
exploring them.”  The ministry has spoken to both the company and bondholders
throughout the process, he said.  Any changes to laws would have to go through congress, and
the ministry hasn’t proposed such a change, Rodriguez said.  The refinancing plan, which was presented by a court-
appointed arbitrator and based on Vitro’s proposal, swaps the
$1.5 billion in defaulted debt for $814.6 million of new bonds
maturing in 2019 with an interest rate of 8 percent and $95.8
million of debt convertible to shares with an interest rate of
12 percent.  “In the opinions of third-party analysts that actually
know well the financials of the company, what was offered to
bondholders is based on the payment capacity of the company,”
Rodriguez said. “So regardless of the process, they’re getting
to an end result which is what you’d like to see in
restructuring processes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in  Mexico  City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  