-- Expired U.S. Business Tax Breaks May Stay in Limbo Past Election
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-02-16T16:57:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/expired-u-s-business-tax-breaks-may-stay-in-limbo-past-election.html
Business-backed efforts to extend
dozens of expired U.S. tax breaks including those for corporate
research, teachers’ out-of-pocket expenses and energy-efficient
appliances probably won’t be considered until a post-election
session of Congress, lawmakers and lobbyists said.  Lawmakers, including Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  and
Senate Finance Chairman  Max Baucus , tried to include some of the
breaks in pending legislation to extend an expiring payroll tax
cut. That effort didn’t succeed, and the intense politics
surrounding U.S. tax policy may discourage lawmakers from acting
until the end of 2012.  “It just makes it impossible to get where we need to be
until after the election” on Nov. 6, said Representative
Patrick Tiberi, an Ohio Republican and member of the House Ways
and Means Committee.  In a so-called lame-duck session before defeated lawmakers
leave office, Congress would consider extending these breaks
along with expiring income tax cuts, automatic spending cuts
that start in 2013 and the expiration of the payroll tax break
Congress is now trying to extend for the rest of 2012.  “The CEOs have really gotten fed up with the idea that
everything in the  tax code  seems to be temporary,” said  John Engler , president of the  Business Roundtable , a Washington-based
association of chief executives at corporations including the
Bank of America Corp. and PepsiCo Inc. “They want a permanent
tax code.”  For the Investors  Democratic Representatives Richard Neal of  Massachusetts 
and Joseph Crowley of  New York  said they expect the tax
extenders to be addressed in the lame-duck session. Crowley said
he hoped Congress could act more quickly.  “We’d all like to have that done for the sake of the
investors,” Crowley said.  The so-called tax extenders have lapsed and been continued
retroactively before. Many of the same tax breaks expired at the
end of 2009 and didn’t get new life until the end of 2010.  Among the expired tax benefits are the research and
development credit, the ability to defer taxation on some
overseas financial-services income and a grant program for
renewable energy projects.  Companies including General Electric Co. and Microsoft
Corp. lobby for at least one of the tax breaks. Business groups
complain that the frequent lapses and retroactive reinstatements
interfere with their ability to use the incentives effectively.  ‘Taxpayer Confusion’  “While the IRS muddles through and does its best by
rushing through revised forms and instructions, last-minute
retroactive extensions cause significant taxpayer confusion,
with a clean-up that often drags on for many months,”  Douglas Shulman , commissioner of the  Internal Revenue Service , said in a
speech to corporate tax directors yesterday, according to
prepared remarks.  Kenneth Kies, a Republican tax lobbyist in Washington, said
it’s still possible the tax break extensions would be enacted
before the election.  “The two tax-writing committees have got to figure out
something to do with their time between now and November,” said
Kies, whose clients include Caterpillar Inc. and the  American
Council of Life Insurers .  Obstacles to extending the tax breaks include disagreements
over whether and how to make up the one-year loss of about $35
billion in revenue.  Renewable Energy  Democrats and Republicans also disagree on which provisions
should be continued. Democrats prefer the  renewable-energy  tax
breaks, some of which were created in the 2009 economic stimulus
law. Republicans have resisted extending those provisions.  If lawmakers consider culling the extenders list,
businesses may be more reluctant to make investments based on
the belief that lapsed tax breaks will be renewed, said Patrick
Heck, a partner at K&L Gates LLP in Washington. He is a former
chief tax counsel to Senate Finance Committee Democrats.  “It’s uncertainty on top of uncertainty,” said Heck, who
represents the National Restaurant Association in its effort to
extend a depreciation provision. “There isn’t anybody on
 Capitol Hill  that can tell you how that lame duck is going to
turn out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  