-- Falcone Said to Be Seeking Spectrum Swap to Salvage LightSquared
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2012-02-16T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/falcone-said-to-be-seeking-spectrum-swap-to-salvage-lightsquared.html
Billionaire Phil Falcone is seeking
to swap spectrum owned by LightSquared Inc. with that controlled
by the U.S. Department of Defense, a person with knowledge of
the company said, in an effort to salvage his investment and save
his hedge fund.  Falcone’s Harbinger Capital Partners LLC has sunk $3
billion in LightSquared, a Reston, Virginia-based firm that
plans to build a high-speed broadband network to serve 260
million Americans. The Federal Communications Commission said
Feb. 14 it won’t let the company begin service because it
interferes with GPS navigation of cars, boats, planes and
tractors.  The hedge fund manager hired Moelis & Co., a New York-based
investment bank, and other advisers to help study alternatives,
said the person, who asked not to be named because the company
is private. If the defense department is not interested in a
swap, Falcone could try to sell the spectrum.  How much he could get for it remains unclear. As of the end
of January, Falcone carried his investment in LightSquared
equity at $1.5 billion, or about half of what his hedge fund had
invested to date, according to a Harbinger document.  Brian Miller, an analyst at Bloomberg Research, says the
spectrum is now worth about $500 million. That’s the book value
that its former owner SkyTerra Communications placed on it when
it was originally licensed. At that time the spectrum could only
be used by satellites. In November 2004, the FCC ruled that the
satellite system could be augmented with land-based cell towers,
which was the network LightSquared planned to build.  Mike Sitrick, a spokesman for New York-based Harbinger,
declined to comment. Falcone’s efforts to swap spectrum was
first reported by the Wall Street Journal.  ‘Politically Motivated’  The FCC’s decision “was not a decision based on science or
technology, but was a politically motivated decision fueled by
special interest groups in the GPS and telecom industry,”
Falcone, 49, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “There
are solutions to this problem that can and will address the
needs of the GPS community,” added Falcone, who declined to be
interviewed.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and  Justice
Department  are investigating him over alleged violations of
 securities law . He’s had to borrow $190 million from Jefferies
with an effective interest rate of 24 percent, has investor cash
tied up in an iron-ore company in  Brazil  that he’s now trying to
sell and posted record losses last year. Falcone has denied any
wrongdoing.  “The only way people would ever give him money again to
manage would be if the LightSquared investment were a home
run,” said Brad Balter, head of Boston-based Balter Capital
Management LLC, which invests client money in  hedge funds .
“Even breaking even won’t do anything for his reputation.”  Ferrous Resources  Five years ago, Falcone ran a $26 billion hedge fund firm,
one of the industry’s biggest, after more than doubling clients’
money on a successful bet that subprime mortgages would tumble.
As little as two months ago, he said in an interview that he
wanted to use  Harbinger Group Inc. (HRG) , a publicly traded holding
company he controls, to make long-term investments akin to
Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc.  As of the end of January, his Harbinger Capital Partners
had dwindled to $4 billion. About $2.8 billion was in three
positions. In addition to the LightSquared equity, it held $648
million in Ferrous Resources Ltd., the Brazilian iron-ore
producer that he has been trying to sell, and $645 million in
Harbinger Group Inc., which currently owns an insurer and a
consumer company.  Falcone’s troubles started after his big win on subprime,
and hedge fund investors said that his success on that trade may
have propelled him to take bigger and bigger risks.  2011 Losses  His penchant for concentrated bets hurt him during the
financial crisis of 2008. A stake in iron-ore producer Fortescue
Metals Group Ltd. slumped 74 percent that year, as did large
holdings in Cleveland-Cliffs Inc., which tumbled 49 percent, and
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. that lost 76 percent.  Then there was the LightSquared bet. He started building
his stake in 2006 and completed his purchase of SkyTerra in
March 2010, which awarded him the licenses that analysts at the
time said were worth $9 billion.  The fund wasn’t just hit by investment losses. In 2009, he
borrowed $113 million from his Special Situations Fund to pay
his personal taxes, a move that is now being investigated by the
SEC and the U.S. attorney.  Last year, Falcone’s main fund tumbled 47 percent as he was
forced to write down his stake in LightSquared by half.  His main fund borrowed $190 million from Jefferies Group
Inc. last month to help pay off a $400 million loan from UBS AG
that came due at the end of January. The Jefferies loan matures
in October and the fund said it would immediately start trying
to sell its 19.5 percent stake in Ferrous to raise cash. In all,
Harbinger owns 26 percent of the company.  “After the subprime trade, it was almost as if he had to
go for a home run every time,” Balter said. “He couldn’t help
himself.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  