-- Fashion Week Scene: Elettra Wiedemann, Russell Simmons, Nemcova
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-02-16T16:37:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/fashion-week-scene-monopoly-models-elettra-wiedemann-russell-simmons.html
New York  Fashion Week ends today,
leaving us with some quirky memories.  Last night  Junk Food Clothing  presented its collection of
T-shirts inspired by the board game Monopoly.  There was plenty of Monopoly money on the white Astroturf
runway at the  Metropolitan Pavilion  in Chelsea.  Mr. Monopoly -- model Josh Holland -- strutted down in a
top hat, cane and velvet coat by Andrew Charles, doing a “swag
step,” which he described as “feeling like a million bucks.”  Then came a model in a white T-shirt with a red-glitter
question mark, just like the “Chance” spot on the Monopoly
board. Another’s tee bore a faded pink-and-lavender railroad
car.  The company showed 11 designs by artist Aaron Rose. They
will be priced at $45 to $70 and available for sale next month,
said Andrei Najjar, Junk Food Clothing’s vice president in
charge of marketing and brand strategy.  Buyers at Kitson, the hip  Los Angeles  boutique, had the
idea to bring the board game to life. Junk Food Clothing, which
sells at Kitson, then made a licensing agreement with Hasbro,
which produces the game that’s been taking hours to play since
1935. Junk Food Clothing has 5,600 designs and 800 licenses,
said Najjar.  The show stealer, though, was the Cairn terrier named Milo
who accompanied the model posing as a banker.  Nemcova, Adele  Russell Simmons  on Tuesday offered another kind of
distraction from Fashion Week: a Valentine’s Day-themed benefit
luncheon for the  Rush Philanthropic Arts Foundation .  There were models in the room, including Petra Nemcova,
Arizona Muse and Andi Muise. But children participating in the
foundation’s arts programs had the spotlight, performing a dance
to Adele’s “Rolling in the Deep.”  Soledad O’Brien helped coax $23,000 in donations from
guests, to support arts-education programs for 2,300 children
and teenagers.  “Many people think fashion is superficial,” said Nemcova,
founder of the  Happy Hearts Fund , which helps rebuild schools
after natural disasters. “From my experience, because we work
on a beauty, exterior level, people are looking for something
meaningful on the inside.”  Meanwhile, Elettra Wiedemann, a model and  London School  of
Economics graduate, set up a temporary restaurant called
Goodness to benefit  City Harvest .  Food for Thesis  The pop-up eatery served lunch from Saturday to Tuesday
inside the restaurant Robert at the  Museum of Arts and Design .  Wiedemann wrote her LSE thesis (for which she earned
distinction) on feeding urban populations, so she wanted to
support a charity that helps feed New York’s hungry.  “The ability to say no to food is a luxury,” said
Wiedemann Saturday after lunch with her mom,  Isabella Rossellini . “Goodness is an opportunity to celebrate the
abundance we have.”  Alain Allegretti, chef of La Promenade des Anglais, had
some dishes on the menu.  “I have a kale salad, which sounds good, but it’s bad,”
he said. “I added candied walnuts, prosciutto and a pomegranate
dressing.”  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 