-- Fed’s Poor Data, Not Greed, Drove Wall Street Off Cliff: Books
-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2012-02-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/fed-s-poor-data-not-greed-drove-wall-street-off-cliff-books.html
Pick a rogue, any rogue: Villains
pervade the story of the worst financial train wreck since 1929.  Yet economist William A. Barnett resists the urge to wag a
scolding finger at greedy bankers, feckless homebuyers or even
 Alan Greenspan , whom he calls a salesman, not a monetary
maestro.  “While there is plenty of blame to spread around,
something deeper has happened and needs to be understood to
recognize the real source” of the crisis, says Barnett, a
former  Federal Reserve  Board staffer.  That “something” was shoddy monetary data and how they
fooled some of the smartest people on  Wall Street , he argues in
“Getting It Wrong,” an important contribution to our
understanding of the $2 trillion meltdown.  Barnett is a professor at the University of  Kansas  who
started out as a rocket scientist -- “a real one,” he says, at
a company that developed engines for the Apollo space project.
He specializes in a corner of economic measurement known as
index-number and aggregation theory.  This sounds like daunting stuff, and it is. The second part
of the book brims with mathematical formulas and arcane argot --
talk of vectors, intertemporal utility and strict
quasiconvexity.  No matter. Barnett doesn’t expect lay readers to grind
through the calculations. Eager to make his insights accessible,
he devotes the first part of the book to making his argument in
(mostly) plain English.  Poor and Useless  The Fed’s monetary data are poor, inadequate and “nearly
useless to the public,” he says. The totals suffer from the
common error of adding apples and oranges or, as he puts it,
subway trains and roller skates.  Suppose you were measuring  New York City ’s transportation
services. You wouldn’t assign equal weight to trains and skates,
would you? Yet that, in essence, is what the Fed does when it
measures the money supply. The  M2 measure , for example, is a
“simple-sum” aggregate: It merely adds up the dollar amounts
of assets including currency,  demand deposits ,  savings accounts 
and some certificates of deposit.  Dollar bills and CDs aren’t the same, of course. Cash pays
zero interest, for starters. It’s also more liquid -- more
useful as a medium of exchange -- than money parked in a CD.  To avoid adding apples and oranges, Barnett originated
Divisia monetary aggregates, which are named after Francois
Divisia, a Frenchman who published groundbreaking work on
consumer-goods indexes in the 1920s.  Liquid Components  Adapted to financial assets, Divisia measurements give the
greatest weight to the most liquid components, or those “most
used in transactions,” as a  Bank of England paper  puts it. This
offers a more accurate reflection of the money actually being
spent in the economy (or, to be precise, the “monetary services
in the economy”).  Barnett’s argument culminates in two  fever-line charts .
They indicate that the nation’s  money supply  in recent decades
grew at a far faster pace, when measured by Divisia, than the
Fed’s data suggest.  For M1, Divisia shows about $400 billion more being added
to the money supply from 1980 to 2005 than the Fed’s simple sums
record. For M2, the deviation increased by an astonishing $2
trillion.  The charts offer a clue about why many Wall Street bankers
were lulled into thinking that Maestro Greenspan had engineered
a Great Moderation, inducing them to ratchet up leverage.  Feeding the Bubbles  The graphs also suggest that the data may have misled the
Fed itself: “The Federal Reserve could have been feeding the
asset bubbles without the Fed’s being aware of it,” Barnett
says.  After the  housing bubble  sprang a leak, the Fed unwittingly
tightened the money supply, judging from two additional Divisia
charts displayed here. One shows the monthly rate of money
growth in the past two years plunging to negative levels. The
picture grows even more disturbing in the second graph, which
presents year-over-year growth rates.  “The monetary tightening, leading into the financial
crisis and recession, is the largest and most precipitous that
has occurred over the entire 42-year period for which the data
were available,” Barnett writes.  The U.S. government has no excuse for not compiling and
distributing better data, and Barnett is right to press the
issue. Yet his thesis makes me somewhat uneasy.  Blaming the Data  In the bubble years, all too many economists supported the
dangerous notion that the Fed had succeeded in taming the
business cycle. Now they may be tempted to use Barnett’s
admirable book as an excuse: The data made us do it.  No, they didn’t. Mavericks including  Robert Shiller  and
 Nouriel Roubini  didn’t require finely tuned monetary aggregates
to predict that the bubble would end badly. All anyone needed,
really, was skepticism and context.  Excessive borrowing has turned lethal throughout financial
history, from 14th-century Florence to  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. (LEHMQ)  Another recurring theme is that an ongoing boom won’t end
in bust because we’re smarter now, a fallacy  Carmen Reinhart  and
 Kenneth Rogoff  discredit in “This Time Is Different.”  No amount of improved data can prevent rational people from
doing irrational things, especially when bonuses beckon. In the
end, mankind always falls for “lies, damned lies and
statistics.”  “Getting It Wrong: How Faulty Monetary Statistics
Undermine the Fed, the Financial System and the Economy” is
from  MIT Press  (322 pages, $35, 24.95 pounds). To buy this book
in  North America , click  here .  (James Pressley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 