-- Fed Dealer Survey Shows Declining Chance Central Bank Will Buy More Bonds
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-02-16T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/fed-dealer-survey-shows-declining-odds-of-more-asset-purchases.html
The  Federal Reserve (FDTR)  Bank of New
York’s survey of primary dealers conducted before policy makers
met last month showed the firms saw the probability of another
round of asset purchases declining from December.  The median respondent saw a 55 percent chance that the Fed
would expand its balance sheet through securities purchases
within one year, down from 60 percent odds in the survey
conducted before the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s Dec. 13
meeting, according to results released today by the New York
Fed. Dealers also became more confident the  U.S. economy  would
avoid a recession.  Fed officials are keeping open the option of a third round
of bond purchases in case the economy weakens or inflation stays
low. “A few” members of the FOMC said economic conditions
could warrant buying assets “before long,” and others
indicated that action would become necessary if the “economy
lost momentum” or price gains seemed likely to remain lower
than the Fed’s 2 percent goal, according to minutes of their
Jan. 24-25 meeting released yesterday in  Washington .  Central bankers at their last meeting adopted a plan to
hold  interest rates  near zero at least through late 2014 to spur
growth and reduce unemployment, extending a previous date of
mid-2013. The date was extended to provide “more
accommodative” financial conditions, the minutes said.  The median respondent in the dealer survey saw 70 percent
odds that the Fed would alter its forward guidance on the path
of its benchmark interest rate at that next meeting.  Primary dealers also saw a 20 percent likelihood that the
U.S. economy would be in a recession within six months, down
from 25 percent odds in the December survey, according to the
median response.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in  New York  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  