-- Fed’s Bond-Buy Talk Already Boosting Mortgage Debt, Scott Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-02-16T19:35:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/fed-s-bond-buying-talk-already-working-scott-says-tom-keene.html
Federal Reserve officials’
suggestions that the U.S. central bank may buy more mortgage
bonds are already driving up prices and lowering borrowing
costs, potentially reducing the impact of any actual program,
Bank of America Corp.’s Brad Scott said.  “The market has given the Fed the optimal outcome without
the Fed having to do anything,” Scott, the bank’s New York-
based head trader for pass-through agency mortgage securities,
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance
Midday” with  Tom Keene . “It may be buy the rumor, sell the
fact. We’ve had that multiple times through the Fed’s
involvement in our market.”  Fed officials including Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  have said
the central bank may start a third round of bond purchases,
potentially targeting mortgage debt. The buying would seek to
stimulate the economy with lower lending rates after three years
of unemployment above 8 percent and the worst U.S.  housing slump 
since the Great Depression.  The  average rate  on a typical 30-year fixed-rate mortgage
fell to a record low 3.87 percent in the week ended today, down
from 4.55 percent about six months ago, according to Freddie Mac
surveys. Higher rates would represent the “most pain” for the
Fed and may be the “path of least resistance,” Scott said.  A few members of the  Federal Open Market Committee  said
last month at their Jan. 24-25 meeting that the central bank may
soon have to consider more asset purchases, while others said
the economic outlook would have to deteriorate first, according
to minutes of the gathering released yesterday.  ‘On the Table’  Mortgage-bond investors are pricing in about 40 percent
odds of further bond buying by the Fed, Credit Suisse Group AG
analysts led by Mahesh Swaminathan said today in a report.
Prices of Fannie Mae-guaranteed 3.5 percent securities, which
have risen 2.2 percent over the past six months to about 103.5
cents on the dollar, may drop by about 0.5 cent if a program
isn’t announced, a potential outcome the analysts characterized
as “contained.”  The FOMC minutes “underscore” that the possibility
“remains on the table” despite investor concerns that it had
lessened after economic data that topped economist estimates,
the analysts said. Bernanke told lawmakers last week that the
declining U.S.  unemployment rate , which is down to a three-year
low of 8.3 percent, fails to reflect challenges in the job
market as people leave the  labor force .  Previous Purchases  The Fed previously bought $1.25 trillion of government-
backed mortgage securities from January 2009 through March 2010
and began reinvesting proceeds from its past purchases of
housing debt in the market in October. By keeping short-term
 interest rates  near zero, the Fed also has fueled buying by U.S.
banks, whose holdings last month reached a record $1.27
trillion.  The central bank’s success in pushing down borrowing costs
will lead to more refinancing in the coming months as homeowners
with debt backed by  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  take advantage of
a loosening of rules by the government-supported companies,
Scott said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net 
Thomas R. Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  