-- Fed Bond-Buying Option Is Kept in Reserve as Officials Weigh Economic Data
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-02-16T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/fed-bond-purchase-option-kept-in-reserve-as-officials-weigh-data.html
Federal Reserve officials  are
keeping open the option of a third round of bond purchases in
case the economy weakens or inflation stays low.  “A few” members of the  Federal Open Market Committee  said
economic conditions could warrant buying assets “before long,”
and others indicated that action would become necessary if the
“economy lost momentum” or price gains seemed likely to remain
lower than the Fed’s 2 percent goal, according to minutes of
their Jan. 24-25 meeting released yesterday in Washington.  Policy makers willing to wait for evidence of weakness in
the economy before taking further action are probably in the
majority, said Roberto Perli, a former senior staff economist in
the central bank’s division of monetary affairs, which drafts
the language in the Fed’s communications.  “The bottom line is there is a threshold” for asset
purchases, said Perli, a managing director at International
Strategy and Investment Group Inc. in  Washington . “Only two or
three members think we are already there. A more substantial
group is open to the idea but thinks economic conditions need to
get somewhat worse.”  Central bankers at their last meeting adopted a plan to
hold  interest rates  near zero at least through late 2014 to spur
growth and reduce unemployment, extending a previous date of
mid-2013. The date was extended to provide “more
accommodative” financial conditions, the minutes said.  Consumer Credit  The jobless rate fell to the lowest level in three years in
January, while  consumer credit  racked up its biggest two-month
gain in a decade at the end of 2011. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index had its best January in 15 years. The index fell 0.5
percent to 1,343.23 in  New York  yesterday amid concern that
 Greece  was moving closer to default, leaving it up 6.8 percent
this year.  “All the latest economic indicators point to an economy
that does not require additional action on the part of the
central bank,” said Christopher Rupkey, chief financial
economist at Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in New York. “I
am baffled why this Fed would consider more stimulus at this
point.”  A Labor Department report on Feb. 3, after Fed policy
makers met, showed that the unemployment rate unexpectedly
dropped to 8.3 percent.  Factory production rose last month, reflecting gains in
demand for automobiles and business equipment that may keep
manufacturing at the forefront of the expansion. Output at
factories increased 0.7 percent after a revised 1.5 percent gain
in December that was the largest in five years, the Fed reported
yesterday.  Appetite Is Lower  “The improvement in various indicators since the time of
the last meeting probably means that for the average FOMC member
the appetite for additional purchases is lower,” said  Dan Greenhaus , chief global strategist for BTIG LLC in New York.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  repeated the low-rate pledge
after the jobs report, and said the decline in the  unemployment
rate  may mask weakness in the labor market.  “It is very important to look not just at the unemployment
rate, which reflects only people who are actively seeking
work,” Bernanke said in response to a question during testimony
in Congress. “There are also a lot of people who are either out
of the  labor force  because they don’t think they can find work”
or who have taken part-time jobs.  Other policy makers have highlighted the positive reports,
with St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  saying they have
“been surprising to the upside.”  Threat of Deflation  “I need to see significant deterioration in the economy
and some threat of deflation or inflation moving significantly
below our inflation target before I would consider more QE,”
Bullard, who doesn’t vote on policy this year, said in an
interview on Feb. 3.  Among companies expanding payrolls is Caterpillar Inc., the
world’s biggest maker of earthmoving equipment. The Peoria,
Illinois-based company plans to hire more workers this year as
it expands facilities, including in Victoria,  Texas , and
Winston-Salem,  North Carolina , Chief Financial Officer Edward
Rapp said this month in an interview.  Fed officials last month acknowledged “further gradual
improvement” in the labor market and said financial-market
stresses had eased as the  European Central Bank  took action to
help  Europe ’s debt crisis. Most FOMC participants continued to
see risks that growth would be lower than their forecasts and
the unemployment rate higher, the minutes showed.  U.S. central bankers expect the economy to grow 2.2 percent
to 2.7 percent this year, according to the central tendency of
their January forecasts. They see the jobless rate ending the
year at 8.2 percent to 8.5 percent, and prices rising 1.4
percent to 1.8 percent, below their 2 percent goal.  “We will get QE3 if they think we have slippage in the
economy,” said  Michael Hanson , senior U.S. economist at  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  in New York, referring to a third round of so-
called quantitative easing. “A couple months of worse data
would bring down their forecasts, and then additional easing
happens.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Torres in 東京 at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  