-- Fed’s Kamin Says European Crisis Hurts U.S. Exports, Confidence
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-02-16T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/fed-s-kamin-says-european-crisis-hurts-u-s-exports-confidence.html
Steven Kamin, director of the
 Federal Reserve ’s division of international finance, said the
European debt crisis is hurting the  U.S. economy  by reducing
exports and lowering business confidence.  “The financial stresses in  Europe  are undoubtedly spilling
over to the United States by restraining our exports, weighing
on business and consumer confidence, and adding to pressures on
U.S. financial markets and institutions,” Kamin said today in
prepared testimony for a hearing of the Senate Banking
Committee. While the “effects on the U.S. economy are difficult
to gauge, it is clear that the situation in Europe poses a
significant risk to U.S. economic activity.”  The euro area’s creditor countries have struggled to reach
an agreement over a bailout of Greece, seeking more control over
how future aid is spent as the country faces possible default on
a bond payment due on March 20. The 17-nation currency area’s
finance ministers will discuss a second bailout on Feb. 20, said
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who chairs
meetings of the Eurogroup.  Kamin praised recent moves by European leaders to contain
the crisis, including making three-year loans to lenders in
December.  “These steps are positive developments and signify the
commitment of European leaders to alleviate the crisis,” he
said.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  declined
today after Moody’s Investors Service said it is reviewing banks
and securities firms with global capital markets operations.  Kamin said the Fed’s efforts, along with other central
banks, to make it cheaper for banks to borrow U.S. dollars in
emergencies, have been intended to ease strains in global
financial markets.  “The Federal Reserve has not lost a penny on any of the
swap line transactions since these lines were established in
2007,” Kamin said in his prepared testimony.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  