-- FERC Decides Against Revising Policy in U.S. Utility Mergers
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-02-16T18:06:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/ferc-decides-against-revising-policy-in-u-s-utility-mergers-1-.html
The  Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission  won’t update its policies for reviewing utility
mergers, rejecting a looser definition of market power adopted
by two antitrust agencies and backed by companies.  FERC decided today to retain existing merger-analysis
guidelines, rather than follow the Justice Department and
Federal Trade Commission policies issued in 2010.  The two agencies “were actually loosening up their
guidelines,” FERC Chairman Jon Wellinghoff told reporters after
the commission’s monthly meeting in Washington. “We didn’t
think it was appropriate to loosen them up.”  The regulator is weighing mergers that would create two of
the largest U.S. utilities. The commission on Dec. 14 rejected
 Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) ’s plan to ease competition concerns posed by
the Charlotte, North Carolina-based company’s proposed takeover
of  Progress Energy Inc. (PGN)  of Raleigh. The proposed union of  Exelon
Corp. (EXC)  of  Chicago  and  Constellation Energy Group Inc. (CEG)  of
Baltimore, Maryland, also is pending at the agency.  Duke Energy next week may give FERC a plan to alleviate
concerns that buying Progress would let it manipulate power
prices, Chief Executive Officer James E. Rogers said on an
investor conference call today.  ‘Reliable Guidepost’  FERC had sought public comments about its guidelines for
assessing market control in mergers, including possibly
loosening the standard. The Justice Department and FTC in August
2010 raised the threshold and placed less emphasis on a set
formula to consider the effects on competition after a merger,
according to a March 2011 FERC press release.  Standards adopted by the antitrust agencies “provide a
reliable guidepost,” the Edison Electric Institute said in
comments filed with FERC on May 23 urging consideration of a
revised guidelines.  Dan Riedinger, a spokesman for the institute, said in an e-
mail that he was seeking comment on the agency’s decision.  Public power groups opposed changes.  “The electricity industry has not undergone fundamental
changes that warrant relaxing the commission’s existing
thresholds,” the American Public Power Association and National
Rural Electric Cooperative Association said in comments filed
May 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in  Washington  at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  