-- FIFA Probes $56 Million Uruguay Trades for Soccer Stars Who Don’t Show Up
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f   a n d   L u c i a   B a l d o m i r
-- 2012-02-16T10:47:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/fifa-to-probe-56-million-soccer-player-trading-operation-that-netted-hulk.html
Soccer’s ruling body  FIFA  will
investigate an arrangement in which Brazilian players including
the Porto striker known as  “Hulk”  are traded to European clubs
via a Uruguayan team for which they never appear.  Player agent Juan Figer arranges for Club Atletico
Rentistas, one of Montevideo’s smaller teams, to sign his
clients and then loans them to a higher-profile club, according
to Rentistas President Mario Bursztyn. The transfer fee when the
player is traded is redirected to a company owned by Figer
called Lamico, Bursztyn said in an interview.  Bursztyn said his club gets a “fairly large” monthly
retainer fee from Figer in return and the arrangement is
“totally legal.” Figer, who is a  licensed agent , follows all
the rules of his profession, his spokesman Jose Aparecida Miguel
said via e-mail. Zurich-based FIFA, which regulates
international transfers, said in an e-mail its disciplinary
committee will look into the matter after being contacted by
Bloomberg News.  FIFA is trying to improve regulation of the $2.5 billion
soccer transfer market and in 2010 set up a unit called Transfer
Matching System GmbH that makes it compulsory to disclose the
bank details of where transfer money goes via an Internet-based
system. At the time, the unit’s general manager  Mark Goddard 
told reporters soccer was “the last area of the commercial
world where large amounts of money can be moved without
oversight or regulation. It’s been a jungle out there and that’s
about to change.”  Third-Party Rules  Under FIFA rules introduced in 2008, third parties are
banned from interfering in trades between teams. The ruling
body, which is responsible for overseeing as many as 20,000
international trades a year, also prohibits agents from taking a
portion of transfer fees.  A FIFA official said it opens disciplinary cases when
alerted by national federations, clubs or news reports to
potential rules breaches. The official declined to be identified
in line with the organization’s policy. Goddard wasn’t
immediately available for comment.  Figer’s agreement with Rentistas dates back to 1999,
according to  interviews  the Sao Paulo-based Uruguay native gave
to a Brazilian parliamentary inquiry into soccer in 2001. At
least $56 million of deals have gone through Rentistas,
according to Bloomberg News calculations.  Figer’s system allows him or other investors to buy the
transfer rights of upcoming players via Rentistas and then wait
for their transfer market value to rise while they’re on loan in
Brazil, according to Amir Somoggi, director of a sports unit at
auditing firm BDO International Ltd.’s office in  Sao Paulo .  Italian Transfers  A total of $15.7 million from the transfer of two
Brazilians, Alberto Valentim do Carmo Neto and Warley Silva dos
Santos, was paid to Rentistas by Italy’s Udinese in 1999 and
2000, according to a  2001 report  by the Italian soccer
federation about South Americans using forged European Union
passports. In 2000,  France ’s Rennes paid $7.5 million to
Rentistas for another Brazilian, Lucas Severino, according to
testimony by Figer to the parliamentary inquiry published on the
Brazilian senate website.  Rentistas got 19 million euros ($25 million) from trading
90 percent of the rights of Hulk, whose real name is Givanildo
Vieira de Sousa, to Porto in two tranches in 2008 and 2011, and
6 million euros for 75 percent of the transfer rights of forward
Walter da Silva in 2010, according to  stock-market filings  by
the Portuguese team.  Hulk played for  Japan ’s Tokyo Verdy until a few weeks
before he joined Porto, while Walter was at Internacional de
 Porto Alegre , a Brazilian team. Figer is one of the agents of
Hulk and Walter, Figer spokesman Miguel said.  Hulk is in Porto’s 18-man squad playing  Manchester City  in
the first of a two-game Europa League round-of-32 game today.  $600,000 Budget  Bursztyn said Rentistas has an annual budget of $600,000
and doesn’t enrich itself from its agreement with Figer or it
“would be better than Nacional and Penarol” instead of
fighting to stave off relegation from the first division.
Montevideo-based Nacional and Penarol are Uruguay’s biggest and
most successful teams.  Rentistas doesn’t have a website and in 2007 a judge
suspended one of its games when drains flooded in the forecourt
of its 10,000-capacity stadium.  Bursztyn said that “many years ago” Brazilian government
officials had travelled to Montevideo to make inquiries about
the arrangement, although he wasn’t aware of FIFA ever
contacting the club about it.  Investment Funds  Player agents first began to buy shares of transfer rights
from cash-strapped clubs in  Brazil  in about 1998, Leo Rabello, a
Rio de Janeiro-based player manager for 27 years, said in an e-
mail. Figer, who is in his late 70s, was the first FIFA-
registered agent in Brazil, according to the parliamentary
inquiry. There are now 337 agents in Brazil licensed by national
soccer authorities, according to FIFA’s website.  The practice of investing in transfer rights has since
spread to investment funds managed by sports marketing agency
Traffic Sports and the parent company of food retailer Sonda
Supermercados Ltda.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net ;
Lucia Baldomir in Montevideo at 
 lbaldomir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  