-- For-Profit Colleges Lose Incentive to Target Vets Under Bills
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r   a n d   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2012-02-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/for-profit-colleges-lose-incentive-to-target-vets-under-bills.html
For-profit colleges would lose a
financial incentive to enroll soldiers and veterans under U.S.
Senate and House bills aimed at curbing what sponsors call
aggressive marketing of subpar programs.  For-profit colleges such as  Apollo Group Inc. (APOL) ’s University
of Phoenix can get as much as 90 percent of their revenue from
federal financial-aid programs. Schools solicit troops partly
because their government-tuition programs are excluded from that
cap. Under bills being introduced today by two Democrats,
Delaware Senator Thomas Carper and California Congresswoman
Jackie Speier, that money would count toward the limit.  The law should be changed to protect taxpayers and current
and former military members, according to a summary of the
Senate bill. For-profit colleges and  John Kline , the Minnesota
Republican who chairs the House education committee, have said
such aid restrictions would reduce educational access for
veterans who have been neglected by traditional schools.  “We have a responsibility to our taxpayers, our service
members and our veterans to make sure that when our warriors
start their new career as students, that they aren’t subjected
to unfair or abusive practices while using the benefits they
worked so hard to earn,” Carper, who chairs the Senate
subcommittee on federal financial management, said in a
statement.  Eight for-profit college companies received about $626
million in veterans’ education benefits in the most recent
academic year, the Senate education committee said in a November
report. They include the University of Phoenix, the largest
chain by enrollment, and  Education Management Corp. (EDMC) , the second-
biggest.  Apollo, based in Phoenix, fell 1.1 percent to $53.01
yesterday. Pittsburgh-based Education Management rose 0.3
percent to $18.85. A Bloomberg index of 13 for-profit education
companies fell 0.2 percent.  Federal Cap  Congress enacted the cap on federal aid to for-profit
colleges as an antifraud provision, so that students -- or
employers who paid for their continuing education -- were
investing some of their own money in the tuition. Before 1998,
the law had an 85 percent cap.  Congress, the Education Department,  Justice Department  and
state attorneys general are scrutinizing the sales practices and
student-loan default rates of for-profit colleges, which
received almost $32 billion in federal grants and loans in the
2009-2010 school year.  Richard Durbin  of  Illinois , the No. 2 Senate Democrat, and
 Tom Harkin , the Iowa Democrat who’s chairman of the Senate
education committee, sponsored a similar bill in January that
would lower the total amount colleges could receive from
government programs to 85 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net ;
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at   lwolfson@bloomberg.net . 