-- Foreclosure Rentals to Create 1.8 Million U.S. Jobs, Morgan Stanley Says
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-02-16T20:56:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/foreclosure-rentals-to-create-1-8-million-u-s-jobs-morgan-stanley-says.html
As many as 1.8 million permanent and
temporary real estate-related jobs will be created as investors
convert  foreclosed  homes to rentals, according to a report by
analysts at  Morgan Stanley. (MS)   The employment growth will come in the form of 1 million
temporary positions to rehabilitate 4 million homes and 800,000
permanent jobs to manage and maintain the properties as rentals,
according to the report, issued today by Oliver Chang,
Vishwanath Tirupattur, James Egan and Jose Cambronero.  “Best of all, these jobs could be created by private
capital without the use of taxpayer dollars and generally cannot
be outsourced,” the analysts wrote.  Construction and real estate-related employment has fallen
by 2.73 million jobs, or 23 percent, over the past five years
because of the housing-market collapse, according to the report.
Last year, 302,000 new homes sold, the fewest in Commerce
Department records dating to 1963.  Owners of an estimated 8 million homes will lose their
properties to foreclosure or through distressed sales in the
next five years, according to the Morgan Stanley analysts. About
half will be purchased by investors and converted to rentals,
they wrote.  Fannie Mae (FNMA) , the government-controlled mortgage financier,
invited investors on Feb. 1 to apply for bulk purchases of some
of its almost 123,000 foreclosed homes, with initial
transactions expected to be completed by the end of March.  Financial firms including GI Partners LP, GTIS Partners and
 Oaktree Capital Management LP (OAKTRZ)  have announced plans this year to
spend almost $2.5 billion on the purchase of homes to rent out.
Deutsche Bank AG,  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG) , Starwood
Capital Group LLC, TCW Group Inc. and  Wells Fargo & Co . were
among firms that submitted ideas on the structuring of bulk
sales in response to an invitation last year from the  Federal
Housing Finance Agency .  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  