-- Foreclosures Climb in Florida, Illinois as Lenders Resume Home Seizures
-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 2012-02-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/foreclosures-climb-in-florida-illinois-as-lenders-resume-home-seizures.html
Foreclosure filings rose for the
first time in more than a year in Florida,  Indiana ,  Pennsylvania 
and  Illinois  as lenders resumed property seizures after a probe
of documentation, according to  RealtyTrac Inc.   In Florida, one of the hardest-hit states in the housing
crash, notices of default, auction or seizure rose 14 percent in
January from a year earlier, to 12,102. They increased 69
percent in Indiana, 24 percent in Pennsylvania and 9 percent in
Illinois, RealtyTrac said today. All are so-called judicial
states, where courts supervise property seizures and add time to
the process.  The gains may continue after U.S. banks agreed Feb. 9 to a
$25 billion settlement over abusive  foreclosure  practices,
according to  Irvine , California-based RealtyTrac. Across the
U.S., a total of 210,941 properties received filings in January,
up 3 percent from December and down 19 percent from a year
earlier. One in every 624 households got a filing.  “We expect the pattern of increasing foreclosures to
continue in the coming months, especially given the finalized
mortgage and foreclosure settlement,” RealtyTrac Chief
Executive Officer Brandon Moore said in a statement. Even with
the surges in judicial states, January was the 16th straight
month that filings fell year-over-year, according to the data
company.  The agreement with the five largest U.S. mortgage servicers
capped more than a year of negotiations with state attorneys
general following allegations that the banks used faulty and
fraudulent paperwork, or robo-signing, to repossess properties.  Aid to Borrowers  For borrowers, the deal provides $17 billion in debt
forgiveness and $3 billion in refinancing to lower homeowners’
interest rates. About $1.5 billion in payments will go to
750,000 people who’ve lost their houses.  Lenders decided to step up foreclosure actions even before
the accord was final, accounting for the increase in January
filings, Daren Blomquist, a RealtyTrac spokesman, said in a
telephone interview. In  Florida , monthly filings had dwindled to
an average 8,500 a month, from 22,000 in 2010, as the robo-
signing probe hung over the state’s real estate docket, he said.  Default filings, a lender’s first notice of serious
 delinquency , were sent to 58,362 U.S. properties last month,
little changed from December and down 22 percent from a year
earlier, according to RealtyTrac.  Auctions were scheduled on 86,037 U.S. homes, up 1 percent
from the previous month and down 20 percent from January 2011.
Banks repossessed 66,542 properties, up 8 percent from December
and down 15 percent from a year earlier.  “Clear guidelines” outlined for lenders in the bank
settlement may unlock delayed property dispositions, Moore said.
On the other hand, legislation in certain states will alter the
process, leading to more legal obstacles and “uneven trends”
regionally this year, he said.  RealtyTrac sells default data from more than 2,200 counties
representing 90 percent of the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  