-- Frankfurt Airport Says Strike May Hamper Some Flights
-- B y   K o n s t a n t i n   R i f f l e r
-- 2012-02-16T15:09:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/frankfurt-airport-ground-controllers-extend-strikes-to-two-days.html
Frankfurt airport ,  Europe ’s third-
busiest, faces disruption for the next two days after striking
runway controllers said they’ll extend their protest. As many as
50 percent of flights may be grounded during the walkout.  Controllers were due to halt work from 3 p.m. until 10 p.m.
today in the protest over pay and contracting out, resuming the
action tomorrow between 8 a.m. and 10 p.m., said Matthias Maas,
a spokesman for the Gewerkschaft der Flugsicherung union.  Fraport AG (FRA) , which owns the German hub, is seeking to secure
at least half of operations during the strike periods, spokesman
Juergen Harrer said, estimating that for today as a whole about
two-thirds of the scheduled 650 flights should operate.  Frankfurt, which ranks after  London Heathrow  and Paris
Charles de Gaulle in yearly passenger numbers, is the main base
for  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , Europe’s second-biggest airline,
which has scrapped 50 of 160 flights during today’s walkout.  Travelers are being held “as kind of a hostage” by the
controllers’ demands, with the action likely to affect the whole
of Europe, Klaus-Peter Siegloch, president of the BDL airline
and airport trade association, said in a statement.  Lufthansa Options  Lufthansa passengers can rebook on other flights, apply for
a refund or, for travel in  Germany , switch to Deutsche Bahn AG
trains, spokesman  Thomas Jachnow  said, adding that it’s too
early to estimate how many services will be affected tomorrow.  Fraport had considered seeking a court injunction in an
effort to block the protest, Harrer said before the strike.  The GdF, which has reached deals with Munich and Berlin
airports, says it has accepted a recommendation from mediator
Ole von Beust for a two-step increase in monthly wages of
between 200 euros and 1,600 euros ($260 to $2,082).  With Fraport planning to outsource the ground-control
function, the GdF also wants it to agree that workers will be
transferred to a single company on a single contract, according
to Markus Siebers, the union’s wages and rights representative.  Further walkouts are being planned, though not necessarily
for this weekend, Siebers said, and the GdF aims to carry on
striking “in stages” until it reaches an acceptable settlement.  Fraport says further compromise is required from the union,
which represents about 90 percent of the 200 controllers. Its
stock traded down 0.5 percent at 44.70 euros as of 3:19 p.m.
local time, with Lufthansa 1.5 percent lower at 10.50 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Konstantin Riffler in  Frankfurt  at 
 kriffler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  