-- Gary Carter, ‘Kid’ Who Helped Mets Win 1986 World Series Title, Dies at 57
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-02-17T05:06:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/gary-carter-kid-who-helped-mets-win-1986-world-series-title-dies-at-57.html
Gary Carter, a leader of the World
Series-winning 1986 New York Mets whose unwavering enthusiasm
earned him the nickname “Kid,” has died. He was 57.  Carter, who waged a nine-month battle with  brain cancer ,
died yesterday, his daughter, Kimmy Bloemers, wrote on a website
the family used to keep friends and fans informed. “I believe
with all my heart that dad had a standing ovation as he walked
through the gates of heaven to be with Jesus,” Bloemers wrote.
He died in  hospice care  near his  Palm Beach Gardens ,  Florida ,
home, Mets spokesman  Jay Horwitz  said.  In 19 years in  Major League Baseball , Carter won awards for
hitting and for his defensive skills as catcher, the sport’s
most grueling position, while becoming a fan favorite for his
exuberant approach to the game.  After 11 seasons with the Montreal Expos, he helped guide
the Mets during one of the most productive periods in their
history, from 1985 through 1989. During that span, the Mets won
485 games and lost 323, triumphing in the  1986 World Series  and
winning the  National League East  again in 1988. Manager  Davey
Johnson  named Carter co-captain of the team, along with Keith Hernandez, in 1988.  “Gary was a one-man scouting system,” Johnson said in a
statement released by the team yesterday. “What people didn’t
know was that he kept an individual book on every batter in the
National League. He was the ideal catcher for our young pitching
staff.”  Loquacious Interview  After Carter was voted into the Hall of Fame in 2003,
Johnson told the New York Daily News: “He was a joy to manage,
except when I didn’t have him in the lineup. Then he was a you-
know-what.”  Carter “delighted in relationships,” Ira Berkow wrote in
the  New York  Times. “When you posed a question to him, you’d
generally need an alarm on your wristwatch to end the
interview.”  Not everyone appreciated Carter’s unflinching rectitude or
his nose for the spotlight. In Montreal, some of his less-
celebrated teammates called him “Camera Carter.” In New York,
he stood out as a religious and straight-laced member of a team
known for its partying.  Pitcher Ron Darling, Carter’s teammate in New York and now
a baseball analyst on television, said he didn’t like Carter’s
habit of expressing displeasure with a pitch by firing the ball
back to the pitcher.  Championship Run  “But guess what? That anger got my attention, and I was
able to be a little more fine with the next pitch,” Darling
 wrote  in his memoir, “The Complete Game,” co-written with
Daniel Paisner. “That’s how it often happened with Kid, by the
way: he’d go about his game a certain way, and it might set you
off at first, but he knew exactly what he was doing; he helped
me lift my game.”  In the Mets’ 1986 championship run, Carter hit 24 home runs
and knocked in 105 runs in the regular season, drove home the
winning run in the 12th inning of Game 5 of the  National League
Championship Series  against the  Houston Astros , and homered
twice in Game 4 of the  World Series  in  Boston .  In Game 6 of the World Series, at Shea Stadium in New York,
Carter came to bat with the Mets one out away from a crushing
end to what had been a stellar season. He singled off Boston Red
Sox reliever Calvin Schiraldi. Two more singles, a pitching
change, a wild pitch and one of baseball’s  most famous errors 
later, the Mets had won the game to force Game 7, which they
also won.  Youth Baseball  Asked after Game 6 what had gone through his mind when he
stepped to the plate against Schiraldi, Carter replied, “I was
thinking that I wasn’t going to make the last out of the World
Series.”  Gary Edmund Carter  was born on April 8, 1954, in Culver
City,  California , the second son of Jim Carter, an aviation-
parts inspector for Hughes Aircraft Co. and later McDonnell
Douglas Corp., and his wife, Inge.  When Carter was 12, his mother died of leukemia. He leaned
not only on his father, who coached his youth baseball teams,
but also on his brother, Gordy. At his  Hall of Fame induction  in
2003, Carter thanked his brother “for being such an amazing
role model to me growing up. It meant so much to me that you
would always allow me to play ball with you and your friends
even if I did bug you all the time.”  Carter won the National Football League-endorsed “Punt,
Pass and Kick” competition at 7 and was a finalist again two
years later. Multiple colleges offered him football scholarships,
and he signed a letter of intent with the  University of
California  at Los Angeles. But when the Expos chose him in the
1972 amateur draft, Carter decided to skip college and commit to
baseball.  Birth of ‘Kid’  At Carter’s first spring training with the Expos, in 1974,
veteran players who noticed his extreme enthusiasm started
calling him “Kid.”  The team called him up to the majors at the end of that
season, and the next year he was named to the first of his 11
All-Star Games.  In the strike-shortened 1981 season, he helped lead the
Expos to their only postseason appearance. The franchise would
move after the 2004 season from  Montreal  to  Washington , becoming
the Nationals.  Carter was traded to the Mets after the 1984 season and hit
a game-winning home run in his first game in New York. With
Hernandez, who had joined the Mets in 1983, Carter added veteran
savvy to a lineup full of young talent, including Darling,
Darryl Strawberry and Dwight Gooden.  End of Career  “His nickname ‘The Kid’ captured how Gary approached
life,” Mets owners Fred and  Jeff Wilpon , and Saul Katz said in
a joint statement. “He did everything with enthusiasm and with
gusto on and off the field. His smile was infectious.”  Carter finished his playing career with the  San Francisco
Giants  in 1990, the  Los Angeles  Dodgers in 1991 and a return to
Montreal in 1992. He registered 2,092 hits, including 324 home
runs. He won three  Gold Glove awards .  “It is nice to know that even though my body feels like an
old man now, I will always be a kid at heart,” Carter said in
his 2003 Hall of Fame speech. “I love this great game.”  Carter went on to manage in the minor leagues. Last year he
completed his second season as coach at Palm Beach Atlantic
University.  Carter was a philanthropist through his  Gary Carter
Foundation . He had three children with his wife, the former
Sandy Lahm.  Bloemers, their middle child, kept an online journal about
her father’s struggle with cancer, expressing the family’s deep
faith in God and thanking fans for their prayers.  Describing what would be the family’s final Christmas with
her father, she wrote in late December: “Wednesday through
Friday were nice (low-key) family days. Dad got in the pool, we
had a game night with many laughs and some great food to enjoy.
Dad was a ‘gamer’ and tried to be around all the fun for as long
as possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  