-- Gasoline Rises to Six-Month High on Refinery Outages
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t   a n d   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-02-16T21:48:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/gasoline-gains-after-refinery-outages-threaten-summer-supply.html
Gasoline rose to a six-month high
after unplanned outages at  Gulf Coast  refineries threatened to
curb supplies at a time when production of the fuel typically
increases in anticipation of the summer driving season.  Futures gained after Exxon Mobil Corp.’s Beaumont, Texas,
refinery took a fluid catalytic cracker offline for repairs
yesterday and  Marathon Petroleum Corp. (MPC)  experienced a partial
power failure at the Garyville, Louisiana, plant, resulting in
malfunctions in several units. Sunoco Inc. plans to shut its
Philadelphia plant by July.  “We have a number of refining outages on the Gulf Coast
and there’s still some concern that Sunoco is going to shut the
Philadelphia refinery and tighten supplies for the summer,”
 Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston,
said by phone.  March-delivery gasoline rose 4.04 cents, or 1.3 percent, to
settle at $3.0471 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile Exchange ,
the highest price since Aug. 1. Futures are up 13 percent this
year. Gasoline is the third-best performer this year in the
Standard & Poor’s GSCI commodity index.  Exxon expects some impact to production from the Beaumont
outage, Kathleen Jackson, a company spokeswoman, said yesterday
in an e-mail.  Sunoco Inc. (SUN)  announced Sept. 6 that it may shut
main process units at Philadelphia if no buyer is found.  Jobless Claims  Claims for jobless benefits unexpectedly  dropped  last week
to the lowest level in four years, Labor Department figures
showed today. Estimates for first-time claims decreased to
348,000, less than estimates that ranged from 350,000 to 380,000
in the Bloomberg survey of 45 economists.  Yesterday Iranian state-run Press TV reported that Iran
halted crude oil shipments to Italy, Spain, France,  Greece ,
Portugal and the Netherlands five months before a European Union
embargo takes effect July 1.  “The market has been higher on a combination of fears over
what’s going on with  Iran  and hope on what’s going on with the
economy,”  Peter Beutel , president of trading advisory company
Cameron Hanover Inc. in  New Canaan , Connecticut, said by phone.  U.S. gasoline demand last week was the lowest level for
this time of year in weekly data since 2003, Energy Department
data show. Consumption over the past four weeks was 6.4 percent
below a year earlier.  “The loss of supply is definitely a big thing here but
it’s a very strange thing because you have people buying this
market and bidding the price up at a time when demand is
absolutely horrific,” Beutel said.  Heating oil for March delivery gained 1.81 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $3.2097 a gallon on the exchange, the highest price
since May 2. Futures have advanced 9.4 percent this year.  Regular gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, rose 0.5
cent to $3.523 yesterday, according to AAA data. Prices have
gained 7.5 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in New York at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 