-- Germany Must Decide What the European Union Is For: Clive Crook
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2012-02-16T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/germany-must-decide-what-the-european-union-is-for-clive-crook.html
For the past several decades
Germany’s aim for  Europe  has been to create a wider and deeper
union. In this way it sought to advance its economic and
national-security interests, to bind itself to ever closer co-
operation with its neighbors, and to atone for its history.
Today, the system that it designed is in danger of coming apart,
and newspapers in Italy and Greece carry digitally altered
 pictures  of  Angela Merkel  in Nazi uniform.  Gideon Rachman  writes  in the Financial Times: “Across
southern Europe, the ‘ugly German’ is back -- accused of driving
other nations into penury, deposing governments and generally
barking orders at all and sundry.” The European Union was
intended to bury that caricature once and for all. Instead it
has brought the ugly German back to life.  Rachman sympathizes with Berlin: The attacks on  Germany  are
deeply unfair, he says. Germans have done plenty for southern
Europe and are reluctant -- quite rightly -- to do more. True,
he admits, Germany co-designed the euro monetary system, which
turned out to be flawed. But what’s done is done. Right now the
Germans are doing all they reasonably can.  The Nazi caricatures and other anti-German slurs are
disgusting and unforgivable. But Germany’s leaders are much more
deeply implicated in the causes and mismanagement of the
European crisis than Rachman allows. I don’t think it’s unfair
to say the  plight  of the European project is largely Germany’s
fault.  Wider and Deeper  Germany didn’t just co-design the European monetary system.
It was the main exponent of the view that the European Union
could be -- indeed, had to be -- widened and deepened at the
same time. Germany stood against the view that a vastly enlarged
European Community should shelve its ambitions for political
integration. Eastward expansion of the single European market
was an economic and security imperative; building a European
government was a political and diplomatic imperative. Neither
should give way for the other.  “One thing is certain,” Chancellor Helmut Kohl  said  in 1991
at the completion of the Maastricht accords on political,
economic and monetary union: “When this Europe in 1997 or 1999
has a common currency from Copenhagen to  Madrid  and from The
Hague to  Rome , when more than 350 million people live in a
common space without border controls, then no bureaucrat in
Europe is going to be able to stop the process of political
unification.” He continued: “The member states of the European
Community are now bound in such a way that it is impossible for
them to split apart and fall back into the concept of the
nation-state, with all of its consequences. That means that we
have achieved a key goal of German policy toward Europe.”  Maybe, just maybe, the claim that Europeans were bound so
closely together that the nation-state was history helped
financial markets to believe the EU would not let countries of
the euro zone default on their  debts . As long as this was
believed -- whatever the clauses in the debt contracts might say
--  Greece  and others could borrow very cheaply, and they did.  Canada  and the U.S. have a free-trade agreement, but
there’s no presumption that if one faced insolvency, the other
would bail it out. Europe’s political project is what was
believed to guarantee Greek bonds, and Germany was the principal
guarantor of Europe’s political project.  Today one wonders, what did Germany think “political
union,” which it both argued for and proclaimed, ever meant?
Germany pressed harder than anybody for the end of the nation-
state in Europe, yet its policy is guided now by the conviction
that German taxpayers should on no account be asked to support
their fellow European citizens in Greece.  Extreme Punishment  It’s true that Germany has committed upwards of 200 billion
euros to the  European Financial Stability Facility . This sum is
at risk, but it isn’t a transfer (yet). The scale of taxpayer
support for Greece and others has been a matter of obfuscation
and controversy throughout. The quasi-default recently
negotiated for Greece imposes losses on private creditors but
not official creditors. Shielding EU taxpayers from the
consequences of Greek profligacy may seem a worthy goal, but it
is partly self-defeating. When the EU helps a strapped debtor
with loans, the pool of senior official debt grows and private
creditors see their investments further subordinated.  Before this thing is over, big fiscal transfers in the form
of writedowns of troubled countries’ debts (including debts owed
to governments), bank recapitalization and absorption of losses
by the  European Central Bank  are almost certain to be necessary.
Continuing to deny that reality digs Europe into a deeper hole.  Moreover, the current policy imposes such ferocious
punishment on European citizens in Greece, Ireland,  Portugal  and
 Spain  that it becomes self-defeating. Certainly, in Greece,
 government spending  was out of control, taxes were not being
collected and the public accounts were a joke. But the
adjustment now being demanded of it -- and the demands never
seem to end -- is extreme.  It’s one thing for Europe’s other governments to demand
that Greek politicians do a better job, but quite another to say
that the people of Greece -- citizens of the post-national
Europe that Kohl heralded -- should bear the entire burden of
their leaders’ incompetence. Doesn’t “political union” imply a
bit more borderless solidarity than that?  No, says Merkel, even as she calls for political union as
the only real remedy. The answer is more Europe, she says, not
less. The catch is that restructuring in Greece and the other
overindebted economies has to come first. These positions are
not just in tension, they are flatly contradictory. Agreed,
restructuring is necessary, but its scale and pace have to be
feasible in both political and economic terms. What’s being
asked of Greece is neither. And when the restructuring is over,
sufficient sense of common purpose and shared sacrifice will be
needed for “more Europe” to have any hope of working. At this
rate, fat chance.  In the end Germany, co-architect with  France  of the
European project, is just profoundly confused about the whole
enterprise. It wants “political union” but not a “transfer
union.” Well, I’d like a bigger house that takes up less space.
This confusion is no longer merely an intellectual curiosity but
has become a force capable of tearing the EU apart. If Germany
wants European political union, it needs to recognize its
obligations toward EU citizens wherever they live. If it doesn’t
want that union, it should stop saying it does.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net  