-- Italian Bonds Rise on Greece Optimism as Spain Auctions Notes; Bunds Fall
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-02-16T18:35:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/german-bunds-rise-for-third-day-on-greece-concern-italian-bonds-decline.html
Italian and Spanish bonds rose,
reversing declines, on speculation European officials are moving
closer to an agreement on a Greek bailout.  German bonds erased gains as Dutch Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  told parliament it would be cheaper to save  Greece 
than allowing it to default. A Greek debt swap will run from
Feb. 22 through March 9 if European Union finance ministers
approve the nation’s aid package, Reuters reported, citing a
German coalition source. The  European Central Bank  is swapping
its 50 billion-euro ($60 billion) Greek bond holdings for new
Greek bonds,  Germany ’s Die Welt reported, citing unidentified
central bank officials.  “Judging from the price action it seems the market thinks
some progress may have been achieved on the Greek debt front,”
said  Peter Schaffrik , the head of European interest-rate
strategy at  RBC Capital Markets  in London. “The comment from
the Dutch finance minister was perhaps among the drivers. But
it’s clear from the market moves that the Greek problem has not
been isolated.”  The Italian 10-year bond yield fell eight basis points, or
0.08 percentage point, to 5.66 percent at 6:04 p.m.  London  time.
The rate earlier reached 5.93 percent, the highest since Feb. 1.
The 5 percent securities maturing in March 2022 rose 0.60, or 6
euros per 1,000-euro face amount, to 95.610.  The bond swap will be completed by Feb. 20, Die Welt said
in a pre-release of an article to be published tomorrow. The
central bank is swapping the bonds at their nominal value,
generating a profit because they were purchased at a discount.  Spanish Bonds  The profits will be distributed via national central banks
to the governments who can do with them as they please, the
newspaper said. This is a technical operation ensuring the ECB
will not have to take part in a private sector bond swap, Die
Welt said.  Spanish bonds rose, snapping two days of losses. The yield
on the 10-year Spanish security slid 11 basis points to 5.33
percent. The yield had climbed as high as 5.61 percent.  Spain  sold 4.07 billion euros of securities maturing in
January and July 2015 and October 2019, exceeding the 4 billion-
euro maximum target.  France  also auctioned nominal, and
inflation-linked debt. France sold 8.45 billion euros of two-
three- and five-year securities and 1.71 billion euros of index-
linked debt. The yield on France’s benchmark two-year notes
increased five basis points to 0.68 percent.  Bunds Decline  The  difference in yield  between 10-year French bonds and
benchmark German debt fell six basis points to 109 basis points
after climbing to the most since Feb. 2.  The debt sales come three days after Moody’s Investors
Service cut the ratings of six European nations, including
Spain, and revised its credit outlook on France to “negative.”  The yield on the German bund,  Europe ’s benchmark government
security, climbed four basis points to 1.90 percent. The two-
year note yield increased three basis points, to 0.24 percent.  German bonds have handed investors a loss of 0.2 percent in
2012, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish
bonds returned 0.3 percent, and Italian securities earned 7.9
percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  