-- Germany Aims to Avoid Two-Step Vote on Greek Aid, Debt Swap
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-02-17T15:42:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/germany-targets-approval-for-greek-bailout-plan-on-feb-20-lawmakers-say.html
Germany  expressed confidence that
euro-area governments will agree on a 130 billion-euro ($171
billion) rescue for Greece within days, while seeking to keep a
bond swap of the nation’s debt on track.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , Italian Prime Minister
 Mario Monti  and Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  discussed
plans for a second Greek bailout in a conference call today and
are optimistic that euro-area finance ministers will “find a
solution to open questions” when they meet on Feb. 20, Steffen Seibert, Merkel’s chief spokesman, said in an e-mail statement.  Signals of progress on renewed aid for Greece follows
wrangling among euro-area finance ministers that raised the
prospect of a bailout delay. Germany, the biggest contributor to
euro-area aid, wants to avoid splitting the rescue and the bond
swap, lawmakers in Merkel’s coalition who were briefed by German
government officials said yesterday.  “We expect the Greeks to rise to their responsibilities,”
German Deputy Finance Minister Steffen Kampeter said in a speech
to lawyers in Hamburg yesterday. “This coming Monday, we will
see whether  Greece  delivers or whether we will be forced to
decide on another course of action, one that is not desired.”  Conflict among the finance ministers on a Feb. 15
conference call over how to reduce Greece’s debt load and
tighten control of the aid raised the prospect of a two-step
process, according to two people familiar with the talks. In
that scenario, the Feb. 20 gathering in Brussels would be
limited to kicking off the bond exchange and deferring decision
on the rest of the bailout funds.  Bond Redemption  As recriminations fly between Greece and its northern
European creditors, the clock is ticking toward a March 20 bond
redemption when Greece must pay 14.5 billion euros or trigger
the first sovereign default in the euro’s 13-year history.  Merkel was distracted from her crisis-fighting agenda today
when German President  Christian Wulff  quit, thrusting domestic
politics to the forefront and prompting her to cancel a trip to
 Rome  to meet Monti face-to-face.  The timetable of the Brussels gathering on Feb. 20 has now
been brought forward to 3:30 p.m. in the Belgian capital instead
of the usual 5 p.m.  Investors have sent the  euro  and global stocks higher as
they anticipate the culmination of the seven-month effort to
complete a second bailout for Greece. The currency rose 0.25
percent to $1.3163 as of 4:26 p.m. in Berlin after rising
yesterday for the first time in five days.  Austerity Measures  While Greek lawmakers this month passed austerity measures
that were required for the aid, the euro ministers wrestled with
the latest setback, hearing on their call that Greece would miss
debt-reduction goals. Without further measures to close the
funding gap, Greece’s debt would fall to 129 percent of gross
domestic product in 2020, missing a target of 120 percent, said
three people familiar with the talks who declined to be named
because they are still in progress. Last year, the level was
about 160 percent.  European authorities are discussing charging the nation
lower rates, the three officials said. Greece obtained its
first, 110 billion-euro loan package in May 2010 at rates
averaging 5 percent. Euro governments have already cut that
figure once, to about 4 percent in March 2011.  Central bankers have also indicated that the ECB could
funnel future profits from its Greek bond holdings to national
governments and on into the crisis program. They have agreed
that they “don’t wish to make a profit on Greece,” ECB
Governing Council member Luc Coene of  Belgium  said this week. An
ECB spokesman declined to comment.  Bond Losses  More controversial is a proposal for national central banks
to take part in the private exchange by accepting losses on
Greek bonds in their investment portfolios.  France  is virtually
alone in backing that idea, one of the officials said.  The  European Central Bank  is swapping its Greek bonds for
new ones to ensure it isn’t forced to take losses in a debt
restructuring, three euro-area officials said. EU discussions on
a proposal to set up an escrow account to ensure that Greek aid
money goes to paying creditors are still under way, a Greek
government official said in  Athens  today.  The multiple scenarios led to a possible two-step decision
-- authorizing the bond exchange next week and then completing
the 130 billion-euro public aid program -- that would raise
political risks by requiring two votes in some national
parliaments.  It would also turn a planned March 1-2 summit of European
leaders into a showdown over Greece, after countries including
the Netherlands and  Finland  called for delaying the full package
until after Greek elections in April or later.  Bond Exchange  The bond exchange can only go ahead once governments
authorize the European Financial Stability Facility to provide
30 billion euros, to be used in cash or collateral as an
incentive to investors.  Euro officials are targeting a window of Feb. 22 to March 9
to complete the transaction, the German lawmakers were told.
Greece will submit legislation to parliament on Feb. 21 to allow
collective action clauses that could force bondholders resisting
a debt swap to take part in the exchange, Naftemporiki reported,
without citing anyone.  Greek leaders have no more “wiggle room” even as they
seek to maintain a minimum level of public support going into
elections that may take place in April, Deutsche Bank economists
Gilles Moec, Marco Stringa and Mark Wall wrote in a note to
clients yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  