-- Gillard Urged to Copy Bernanke as Australia’s Lenders Squeezed: Mortgages
-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d   a n d   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-02-17T04:04:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/gillard-urged-to-follow-bernanke-with-australia-loans-mortgages.html
Australia ’s Prime Minister Julia Gillard may be forced to follow U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  by increasing mortgage purchases as house prices
slump and the nation’s biggest banks extend their grip on the
home-loan market.  Non-bank lenders including Greater Building Society and CUA
say more government purchases of residential mortgage-backed
securities will be needed as Europe’s debt crisis saps
investors’ appetite for risky assets. The Australian Office of
Financial Management has spent 73 percent of the A$20 billion
($21.4 billion) allocated to keep smaller lenders competitive
after the credit freeze following Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.’s collapse in 2008.  Australia’s four biggest banks have increased their share
of outstanding mortgages to 86 percent as of the end of last
year, up from 75 percent when the program started, according to
regulatory  data . Mortgage costs are a sensitive issue for
Gillard as her Labor party prepares to face voters by the end of
next year in a nation that has the second-least affordable homes
behind  Hong Kong  and nine out of 10 borrowers pay variable
 interest rates .  “If the federal government is serious about supporting
competition in the Australian home-loan market, the AOFM will
need more cash,” said  Greg Taylor , chief financial officer of
Greater Building Society, the Newcastle-based lender that was
founded in 1945. “Our cost of funding is higher than the major
banks but we have been absorbing this to still offer products
and services that are competitive. This practice is becoming
increasingly challenging.”  Debt Funding  Packaging home loans into securities and selling them to
raise cash is the largest source of debt funding for Australian
lenders outside the biggest four --  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia ,  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) ,  Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  and  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  The smaller
lenders accounted for 59 percent of outstanding RMBS as of Sept.
30, with A$90.7 billion on issue, according to Standard & Poor’s
data.  The AOFM program, which is not open to the big four banks,
has helped 20 lenders fund home loans by investing in their RMBS
sales, a federal website  states . There have been no offerings so
far this year.  The Australian government has already increased its RMBS
budget from the A$4 billion announced in September 2008. It made
A$607 million from interest payments on its mortgage bond
holdings in the year to June 30, a return of 6.1 percent,
according to the AOFM’s  annual report .  ‘Four Pillars’  AOFM Chief Executive Officer Rob Nicholl declined to
comment on the outlook for the RMBS market in 2012 or whether
the government should increase its investment budget. There was
less interest from other investors in the deals the AOFM backed
in late 2011, compared with sales earlier in the year, he said.  “We continue to assess proposals on a case by case basis
as they come forward,” he said.  Commonwealth Bank, Westpac, ANZ Bank and National
Australia, which all hold AA- ratings from S&P and have readier
access to global credit markets, have sold more than $27 billion
of other types of bonds in 2012, the busiest start to a year in
Bloomberg records dating back to 1999.  The so-called “four pillars” boosted offerings after the
government changed laws in October to allow sales of covered
bonds, a different type of mortgage-backed debt that has a dual
guarantee from the issuer and an underlying pool of loans.  New Benchmark  The legal change, announced in a package of reforms aimed
at spurring banking competition, has ended up skewing the
playing field by giving bigger banks a new source of funding and
driving up spreads on all other types of debt. While smaller
lenders are permitted to issue the securities, it’s more
difficult for them to get the AAA ratings on the notes that
investors demand. None have attempted a sale.  Australian RMBS sellers will have to pay higher premiums to
compete as a result, according to Pacific Investment Management
Co., manager of the world’s biggest bond fund.  “The recent issuance of covered bonds has established a
new AAA benchmark and spreads for primary RMBS will need to
similarly adjust in order to represent value,” said  Robert Mead , Pimco’s Sydney-based head of portfolio management. “Pimco
did not participate in the most recent RMBS issues from late
2011 as we perceived those as being priced too tightly, yet we
perceived the initial covered bond issues to be attractively
priced.”  ‘Tough Out There’  Australian  home prices  slumped 4.8 percent in 2011, the
biggest calendar-year drop on record, as concerns about the
European debt crisis kept a lid on demand, according to the
statistics bureau. The nation has the second least affordable
homes behind Hong Kong’s, according to a Demographia  study  of
prices in Australia,  New Zealand , Ireland, the U.K., the U.S.,
 Canada  and Hong Kong.  Credit to  home purchasers  rose 5.4 percent in December from
a year earlier, the smallest annual increase since 1977, when
central bank data begins.  The challenge for banks is “coming to terms with ‘life in
the slow lane,’” John Laker, Chairman of the Australian
Prudential Regulation Authority, told lawmakers in Canberra this
week, according to a copy of his remarks on APRA’s website.  The RBA said in a quarterly statement published Feb. 10
that retail spending remains subdued in Australia and the
 property market  was weak.  “It’s tough out there,” said Tony Taylor, chief financial
officer of CUA, the nation’s largest customer-owned lender. The
AOFM’s budget for RMBS purchases “should be reviewed quite
regularly by those in charge. I have no doubt that an increase
will be required at some point.”  Debt Surge  The mortgage bond investment program puts the government’s
finances at risk if the housing market’s slide turns into a
rout, said Steve Keen, associate professor in economics at the
University of Western Sydney and author of the book “Debunking
Economics.” He expects Australian  house prices  to decline
between 6 and 10 percent in 2012 after adjusting for  inflation .  “Putting more money into this would be putting more money
into a mistaken project,” he said. “The expansion of
competition in mortgages is what gave us a dramatic rise in
mortgage debt. It was damaging to the economy in the long run
and competition led to a race to the bottom.”  Australian household debt as a proportion of disposable
income tripled over the past 20 years to 150.3 percent in the
quarter ended Sept. 30, according to central bank  data . That
compares with 133 percent in the U.S. at the height of the
subprime-mortgage boom.  Homes in the nation’s cities cost 6.7 times the median
household income, compared with 3.1 times in the U.S. and 5
times in the U.K., according to Demographia. Borrowers spend
33.6 percent of their income on loan payments, the Real Estate
Institute of Australia’s housing affordability report show.  ‘Political Issue’  Australian mortgage-holders with floating-rate loans
weren’t given any relief when the  Reserve Bank  of Australia
unexpectedly left its key rate unchanged at 4.25 percent on Feb.
7, judging that two cuts late last year would help the economy
weather  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Traders see a 33 percent chance that the benchmark will be
reduced to 4 percent in March, cash-rate futures show.  If further rate reductions aren’t passed on by banks, it
becomes a “political issue where the government of the day is
not doing enough to put pressure on large players,” said
Fariborz Moshirian, director of the Institute of Global Finance
at the Australian School of Business. “It is seen that the
large banks are controlling the Australian monetary system
because regardless of what the Reserve Bank does, banks are
determining the home loan rate.”  Switch Lenders  All four of the biggest banks boosted interest rates
independent of central bank policy this month. Gillard and
Treasurer Wayne Swan condemned the actions, urging customers to
switch lenders.  Australia’s Labor government, holding a parliamentary
majority of one seat after brokering a deal with independents to
stay in power in 2010, is seeking to bolster its fading
popularity by focusing on the economy and asserting authority
over the banking system. Gillard this month pledged to make
economic management the main political battleground in 2012; her
opponent  Tony Abbott  replied: “make my day.”  Gillard’s Labor government trails Abbott’s Liberal-National
coalition in opinion polls. An election is due by the end of
next year.  National Australia Bank said Feb. 7 that, while its cash
profit for the three months ended Dec. 31 climbed 7.7 percent to
A$1.4 billion, its net interest margin, a measure of the
profitability of its lending business, had narrowed.  Slower Growth  Commonwealth Bank, the nation’s biggest, and Westpac also
said this week that the gap between their lending rates and
their funding costs had shrunk. ANZ said today that credit
growth is unlikely to return to pre-crisis levels in the
“foreseeable future.”  The four biggest banks and their units had a combined
A$932.5 billion of housing loans outstanding as of Dec. 31, from
A$499 billion four years earlier, according to APRA data. They
took advantage of the market turmoil in 2008 to acquire smaller
rivals, with Commonwealth Bank buying Bank of Western Australia
Ltd. and Westpac purchasing St George Bank Ltd.  Australia’s government introduced its mortgage bond-buying
program in September 2008 to help smaller lenders maintain
access to funding as the meltdown in securities linked to U.S.
subprime home loans triggered the global financial crisis.  Spreads Widen  The extra yield above the bank bill swap rate that
investors demanded to hold Australian RMBS averaged 20 basis
points before the credit freeze, according to the RBA. It surged
as high as 450 basis points, or 4.5 percentage points, in early
2009.  The rationale for the program differed from the U.S.’s
purchases of mortgage assets because the nation’s financial
system wasn’t under threat, Swan said in a statement when the
investments were announced in 2008.  The  Federal Reserve  has bought more than $1.25 trillion of
mortgage bonds since 2009 to help drive down home loan rates and
spur a housing recovery. It started in October to reinvest
proceeds from debt that’s being paid off into additional bond
purchases. The value of U.S. housing has fallen 5.4 percent
since the start of that year, and is down 33 percent from its
2006 peak, according to an S&P/Case-Shiller  index .  President  Barack Obama  announced a separate package of
proposals designed to jolt the housing market Feb. 1 by helping
homeowners refinance mortgages into lower-rate loans, his latest
effort to spur the economic recovery.  Late Payments  The share of U.S. prime mortgages that were more than 30
days behind on payments was 5.2 percent as of Sept. 30, compared
with 1.52 percent in Australia, according to the Mortgage
Bankers Association of America and S&P.  Funding costs for financial firms globally have surged as
 Greece  seeks to stave off default. The extra yield investors
demand to hold global financial debt instead of sovereign bonds
has climbed 79 basis points to 292 since the beginning of 2011,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Bank of Queensland Ltd. ,  Bendigo & Adelaide Bank Ltd.  and
CUA say they’ll seek AOFM support with future mortgage bond
sales.  “Challenges are likely to continue in 2012,” said
Brisbane-based Tim Ledingham, treasurer of Bank of Queensland,
citing slow lending growth, rising funding costs, increased
unemployment and slipping house prices. “Until RMBS
transactions are achieving wide and diverse distribution I would
expect that the market will benefit from the AOFM’s
involvement.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net ;
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  