-- Givaudan Seeks to Bottle Lady Gaga for ‘Expensive Hooker’ Scent
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s   a n d   M a r k   G i l b e r t
-- 2012-02-16T13:31:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/givaudan-seeks-to-bottle-lady-gaga-for-expensive-hooker-scent.html
Givaudan SA (GIVN)  is trying to fit Lady Gaga into a bottle.  The Swiss fragrance company is working to collaborate with
the U.S. singer when she launches her first scent, which Lady
Gaga has said would recreate the tones of an “expensive
hooker.” Competition for major brands is fierce and ingredient
suppliers have to re-pitch when celebrities launch new perfumes,
Chief Executive Officer Gilles Andrier said today.  “Fragrances from celebrities are usually very competitive
because the first couple of years are very big,” Andrier said
in an interview. “Even if you win Lady Gaga, it would be a
portion of the business we have to win every year.’  Ever since  Elizabeth Taylor  annexed her fame to a perfume
called ‘‘Passion’’ in the 1980s, celebrity fragrances have
gained a footing in the scent market, which researcher Global
Industry Analysts predicts will be worth $33 billion by 2015.
Collaborating with names such as Lady Gaga would bring a boost
to Givaudan’s fine-fragrance unit, which hardly grew last year.  Givaudan has to re-win about 30 percent of its existing
fine-fragrance business each year, equal to 100 million Swiss
francs ($108 million) to 120 million francs, the CEO said. After
a slow start to 2011, fragrance demand picked up in the
remainder of the year following a ‘‘strong pipeline of new
wins’’ across all major customer categories, Andrier said.  Lady Gaga’s first signature scent will be introduced in
2012. Her perfume campaign and commercial is being shot this
weekend, to be edited into a ‘‘special song,’’ she said on
Twitter on Feb. 14.  Never Smelt Before  ‘‘I can say it’s comfortably something you’ve never smelt
before, that you’ll never forget,” fragrance inventor Dawn
Goldworm of Paris-based Coty Beauty, the world’s largest maker
of fine fragrances, said in an interview.  The U.S. singer, known for extravagant outfits that have
included a dress made from strips of meat, joins performers
including  Britney Spears ,  Christina Aguilera  and  Jennifer Lopez 
in the market for celebrity fragrances.  Givaudan made the ingredients for Fantasy by Britney
Spears. Its main competitors are closely held Swiss competitor
Firmenich International SA, New York-based  International Flavors
& Fragrances Inc. (IFF)  and  Germany ’s  Symrise AG. (SY1)   The CEO is targeting expansion at double the pace of the 2
percent to 3 percent growth expected for the wider market by
taking customers from smaller rivals.  Resilient Demand  Into 2012, the fine-fragrance market is holding up after a
good Christmas season in the U.S., Andrier said. Givaudan is
“well positioned” in the U.S. and celebrity market, he said.  The “base case” for raw-material costs is flat pricing
this year, though some natural products and chemicals could see
as much as 3 percent inflation, Andrier said. Givaudan plans to
increase prices further after higher raw-material costs hurt
profitability.  Annual net income dropped to 252 million francs from 340
million francs. Sales fell to 3.9 billion francs. Both figures
are in line with analyst estimates, according to a Bloomberg
survey.  Andrier today reiterated a mid-term forecast to maintain
industry-leading operating profit margins, a challenge for the
manufacturer as price increases lag behind cost inflation. The
gross margin at the Vernier, Switzerland-based fell to 42.6
percent last year from 46.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  