-- Global Economic Confidence Improved in First Quarter, Ifo Says
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-02-16T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/global-economic-confidence-improved-in-first-quarter-ifo-says.html
Confidence in the global economy
improved in the first quarter, driven by expectations that it
would gather strength by the middle of the year,  Germany ’s  Ifo
research institute  said.  An index measuring global economic sentiment rose to 82.4
from 78.7 in the fourth quarter, Munich-based Ifo said in its
quarterly World Economic Survey published today. That’s the
first rise since the second quarter of 2011. A measure of
current conditions fell to 84.1 from 86, while a gauge of
expectations rose to 80.7 from 71.9.  “The improvement was driven solely by a less pessimistic
outlook for the next six months,” Ifo said. “Positive signs
came especially from the U.S., where the current economic
conditions have shown a significant improvement.”  Europe ’s economy contracted less than economists forecast
in the fourth quarter as a better-than-predicted performance in
Germany and France helped mitigate the region’s first
contraction since 2009. Gross domestic product in the 17-nation
euro area fell 0.3 percent from the prior three months, the
European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said yesterday.  Factories in the U.S. boosted production in January, the
 Federal Reserve  said yesterday, capping the biggest back-to-back
increases in more than two years, showing manufacturing will
remain at the forefront of the expansion.  Ifo said analysts forecast global inflation to average 3.5
percent this year, down from 4 percent in 2011. Survey
respondents forecast unchanged or slightly lower short-term
 interest rates  for the next six months.  The institute conducts the survey in cooperation with the
 International Chamber of Commerce  in Paris. The first quarter
survey was based on responses from 1,129 analysts in 120
countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  