-- GM Says Opel Turnaround Plan May Take a ‘Couple’ of Month
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s   a n d   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2012-02-17T21:06:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/gm-s-plan-to-end-opel-losses-may-take-a-couple-of-months-ceo-akerson-says.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , which yesterday
posted a record annual profit of $9.19 billion for 2011, said
more cost cuts are coming for its money-losing  Europe  unit after
the last turnaround plan failed to end losses there.  “We have to match capacity with demand, and demand has
been falling,” Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson said of
Europe yesterday during a conference call with analysts. “We
are looking at everything in order to achieve a better break-
even point, a lower break-even point, and scale. There’s more to
come on this, I think, in the next couple of months.”  The automaker’s  Europe business , including the Opel brand,
lost $747 million last year before taxes and interest. While
that’s an improvement from $1.95 billion lost in 2010, it’s not
break-even as Detroit-based GM had planned until November when
it pulled back the forecast as the European outlook worsened.  Less than three years after the bankruptcy and government-
funded reorganization that put Akerson on GM’s board, the
automaker is again the world’s largest. Powered by growing sales
in the U.S., where it cut labor costs and closed factories, GM
has become more profitable than at any time in its 103-year
history. Now Akerson wants a similar turnaround in Europe.  “There’s a general recognition by all constituencies that
the situation in Europe today is not a whole lot different than
it was in the  United States  or  North America , generally, three-
plus years ago,” Akerson said.  Under Pressure  While GM has gained ground in the U.S., Ruesselsheim,
Germany-based Opel and sister brand Vauxhall in the U.K. have
continued to lose market share under pressure from competitors
such as  Volkswagen AG (VOW3)  and  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  A drawn-out rescue
effort in the wake of GM’s bankruptcy, including an aborted
sale, also soured consumers on the brand.  “Opel’s Achilles heel is its lack of flexibility,” said
 Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer , director of the Center for Automotive
Research at the  University of Duisburg-Essen . “As soon as
Europe weakens, the company runs into problems.”  The automaker is in talks with Opel’s unions to lower the
break-even level of unit sales by reducing costs and raising the
number of shifts at Opel’s factories to three from two, Opel
Chief Executive Officer Karl-Friedrich Stracke said. He said the
talks will probably take “a couple months.”  In Europe, where GM hasn’t recorded an annual profit for
more than a decade, the average of three industry analysts’
estimates was for the fourth-quarter loss to increase to $358
million from a deficit of $292 million in the third quarter.  GM Europe  lost $562 million in the fourth quarter, little
changed from a loss of $568 million a year earlier. Last
quarter’s loss included about $200 million in restructuring
costs that weren’t reflected in the estimates.  European Overcapacity  The industry in Europe has too many factories capable of
making too many vehicles, and the sales outlook isn’t expected
to improve this year, Chief Financial Officer Dan Ammann said.  “The industry is over capacity,” Ammann said of Europe.
GM is working on “the pieces of our business that we can
control, working with all of our partners to get to the right
answer overall.”  Union leaders called on the company to shift the production
of Opel models assembled outside Europe, such as the Korean-made
Mokka compact sport-utility vehicle, to the unit’s own factories
to make better use of the assets. They also urged an expansion
of Opel’s export markets.  “In order to fully use the capacity of the European
plants, the planned import of Opel/Vauxhall vehicles from other
global regions to Europe needs to be reconsidered,” Wolfgang Schaefer-Klug, the unit’s top labor leader, said yesterday in a
statement. “It will be important to reduce material and product
costs and to expand access to foreign markets.”  Export Opportunities  The company is in talks with GM partner SAIC Motor Corp. on
expanding into  China , Stracke said. He declined to say whether
Opel may produce models at GM’s joint ventures in the world’s
biggest auto market. There are no restrictions on Opel’s ability
to export cars, said Ammann.  Plant closures won’t be part of the near-term solution as
GM is bound by labor contracts that prohibit shutdowns and
forced layoffs until 2014. Stracke declined to comment on
measures after that point. He said GM planned to stick to plans
to invest 11 billion euros in Opel through 2014.  GM rose 0.6 percent to $27.34 at the close in  New York .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Higgins in Detroit at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  