-- Gore and Blood Liken CO2 to Subprime Debt
-- B y   S i m o n   C l a r k
-- 2012-02-16T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/gore-likens-carbon-to-subprime-debt-in-plan-to-repair-capitalism.html
Former U.S. Vice President  Al Gore 
said investors in oil and gas companies who ignore the cost of
emitting carbon dioxide and other  greenhouse gases  are making a
mistake similar to those who invested in subprime mortgages.  “The value of the subprime mortgages was based on a false
assumption,” Gore said yesterday in an interview. “In almost
exactly the same way, the value of all of these carbon fuel
reserves is based on a similarly absurd assumption.”  Gore made the analogy as Generation Investment Management
LLP, the asset manager he founded with former  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  executive David Blood, published a five-point plan
titled “Sustainable Capitalism” to reform the investment
industry. They want the proposals to help combat  climate change 
and poverty as well as boost profit in the long term.  Gore and Blood recommended investors identify “stranded
assets” whose value would change significantly under certain
scenarios, such as a price being set for carbon or for water.
Second, they said investors should use environmental, social and
governance data as well as financial data to value companies.
Third, companies should end quarterly earnings guidance to
remove pressure for short-term gains. Fourth, companies should
reward managers for long-term performance, and fifth, investors
should be rewarded for holding shares longer with “loyalty-
driven securities,” Gore and Blood said.  “The bitter experience that the subprime mortgages caused
should be a reminder that stranded assets have the potential for
doing a great deal of damage,” Gore said in a video link
between Generation’s New York and London offices. The firm
manages about $6.5 billion.  “These subprime carbon assets have an asserted value based
on the assumption that it’s perfectly OK to put 90 million tons
of global warming pollution into the atmosphere every 24
hours,” he said. “Actually it’s not.”  ‘Absurd Assumption’  Gore, a Democrat who won a  Nobel Prize  in 2007 for his
efforts to raise awareness of climate change, said the “absurd
assumption” that he sees underpinning energy stocks may
collapse in the next decade.  Gore said  energy companies  also aren’t properly valuing the
water resources they use for hydraulic fracturing, or fracking
-- technology that releases gas trapped in shale rock by
injecting water, sand and chemicals underground.  Gore’s comparison of carbon and subprime debt comes a month
after a group of U.K. investors and environmental campaigners
wrote to  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  urging a  probe 
into whether the U.K.’s holdings of investments in greenhouse
gas-emitting industries poses a risk to financial stability.  U.K. Study  “There is clearly scope for further evaluation of these
issues,” King wrote in his Feb. 1 reply, posted on the  website 
of Climate Change Capital Ltd. “We will endeavor to include
this in the list of topics we regularly discuss with market
participants to assess whether or not this is a risk of which
they are aware and the extent to which they are taking it into
account in their investment decisions.”  The U.K. government in 2006 published a now widely cited
study by its top climate economist at the time,  Nicholas Stern , 
which said spending 1 percent of economic output on combating 
climate change could avert future expenses of between 5 percent
and 20 percent of gross domestic product.  Gore and Blood said adoption of their proposals was
necessary to restore public faith in capitalism, which they said
had been eroded during the financial crisis, in which taxpayer
funds were used to bail out banks and insurance companies.  “There are rather glaringly obvious problems with the way
capitalism is operating today, in spite of its great virtues,”
Gore said. “There are very big problems that should cause all
participants in markets to think long and hard about how those
problems can be remedied.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Clark in London at 
 sclark4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at 
 mpozsgay@bloomberg.net  