-- Greek Restructuring Suggests Good Returns, Eagan of Loomis Says
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   M i c h a e l   M c K e e
-- 2012-02-16T15:19:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/greek-restructuring-suggests-good-returns-eagan-of-loomis-says.html
Greek euro-denominated bonds are
trading at levels that offer “decent” returns based on the
terms being considered for private-sector losses on the nation’s
debt, according Matthew Eagan of Loomis Sayles & Co.  Greece  is seeking to reduce its debt to 120 percent of
gross domestic product by 2020 from 160 percent last year. A
debt-swap agreement, known as private-sector involvement, or
PSI, would slice 100 billion euros off more than 200 billion
euros of privately held debt, provided investors follow through
on pledges to participate voluntarily. Greek bonds due in 10
years yield 33.4 percent, compared with a record of 36.1 percent
in December.  “Based on what’s on the table now, if this PSI deal is
taken through and finished, you could actually end up with a
decent type of return at least near-term,” Eagan, a  money
manager  at Loomis, which oversees $163 billion and owns Greek
bonds, said today at a Bloomberg Link conference in  New York .
“From a buy or sell decision, I think it’s still a hold where
it is right now.”  Private creditors have been prepared to accept an average
coupon as low as 3.6 percent on new 30-year bonds in the
exchange, which calls for investors to take a 50 percent cut in
the face value of their existing bond holdings. The rescue
blueprint includes a net present value loss of 70 percent or
more for bondholders.  “We have played within the peripheral sovereign European
 debt market ,” said Eagan of Boston-based Loomis. “When we
entered into those positions, we always expected there to be
some form of a restructuring. We weren’t entering those
investments expecting to get paid necessarily at par.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael McKee  in New York at 
 mmckee@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  