-- Greece’s Pasok Party Supports Extension of Papademos’s Mandate
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-02-16T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/greece-s-pasok-party-supports-extension-of-papademos-s-mandate.html
Greece ’s Pasok party favors
extending the term of interim Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  to
ensure speedy implementation of reforms.  “We are in favor of an extension of the life of
Papademos’s government” because “he is better for the
country,” Michalis Chrisochoides, minister for growth,
competitiveness and shipping, told reporters late yesterday in
Frankfurt. The comments were embargoed until today. “Elections
should take place by the end of the constitutional term in
2013.”  Papademos, a former European Central Bank vice president,
formed an interim government on Nov. 11 after Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  was forced to resign over his call for a
referendum on Greece’s second bailout package. Papademos, whose
government is backed by two of the five Greek parliamentary
parties, is tasked with securing the bailout and completing a
debt swap with private investors before stepping down so that
elections can be held.  Antonis Samaras, the leader of  New Democracy , the second-
biggest party after Pasok, said on Feb. 11 he will call for
elections as soon as lawmakers and private creditors have
completed the bond swap that would cut Greece’s debt by 100
billion euros. New Democracy would receive 27.5 percent support
if an election was held now, while the socialist Pasok party,
which won the last election in 2009 and has the most seats in
parliament, would get 11 percent, according to an opinion poll
by VPRC for Epikaira magazine published today.  Feb. 20 Decision  Euro-area finance ministers have delayed a decision on a
second Greek bailout package several times, demanding even more
savings and pledges from key party leaders to support reforms
beyond elections that could come as early as April.  While “further considerations are necessary regarding the
specific mechanisms to strengthen the surveillance of program
implementation,”  Europe  is set to make “all the necessary
decisions” on Feb. 20, Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who chairs the group of euro-area finance ministers,
said last night.  “We’ve implemented everything the Troika has asked,”
Chrisochoides said, referring to observers from the
 International Monetary Fund , European Commission and ECB. “It’s
now up to Brussels to give a positive view to establish a new
future for Greece. I don’t think there’s reason not to make a
decision on Monday.”  Chrisochoides said discussions about an exit of Greece from
the 17-nation monetary union are dangerous and should be
avoided.  “There is no option for a country to exit the euro,” he
said. “We have avoided this discussion because some people in
the market like that discussion and look for an opportunity to
attack a country. We must make Greece survive in order to
protect the euro.”  The ECB should consider playing a “more important, active
role” in helping Greek banks refinance to allow them to extend
credit to small- and medium-sized companies, Chrisochoides said.  “The ECB gives liquidity to Greek banks but it’s not
enough,” he said, adding that looser collateral rules may be
needed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  