-- Gross Fund at 66% Premium Shows Pimco Allure in Quest for Yield
-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m   a n d   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-02-16T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/gross-fund-at-66-premium-shows-pimco-allure-in-quest-for-yield.html
Call it the Pimco premium.  Six of the 10 most expensive bond closed-end funds are
managed by  Bill Gross  or his colleagues at Pacific Investment
Management Co., according to data compiled by Bloomberg, as
investors starved for yield are bidding up prices of funds with
high payouts run by brand name managers.  Gross’s $1.55 billion Pimco High Income Fund, which is
trading at a 66 percent premium, above its three-year average of
49 percent, offers investors distributions of 11.5 percent. The
Pimco Global StocksPlus & Income Fund, which is run by Pimco
manager Dan Ivascyn and has a 10 percent payout, trades 76
percent above its net asset value as of Feb. 14.  “When investors see a nearly 12 percent yield and Bill
Gross is the manager, the premium doesn’t come into question,”
Patrick Galley, chief investment officer at Chicago-based
RiverNorth Capital Management LLC, said in an interview. “The
catalyst is low rates and the fact that they’re going to be
staying there until 2014,” said Galley, whose firm manages
about $1.5 billion in investments, including closed-end funds.  Closed-end funds, which sell a fixed amount of shares to
raise money for investments and then trade on an exchange like
stocks, on average pay out 6.7 percent, beating dividend yields
offered by open-end mutual funds,  stocks  in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and  bonds , in part because they can use debt to
boost returns for investors. While a premium signals confidence
in the manager, buying the funds for more than its underlying
holdings are worth can increase the risk of losses if the share
price declines.  Gross Takes Over  Gross, who started managing Pimco High Income in May 2009,
is better known as manager of the Pimco Total Return Fund, the
world’s biggest mutual fund. The $250 billion fund lagged behind
69 percent of peers last year after Gross missed a rally in U.S.
Treasuries and put money into riskier assets. The fund returned
2.7 percent since the start of this year through Feb. 14,
beating 97 percent of peers. It has outperformed 98 percent of
similarly managed funds over the past five years and became the
world’s biggest mutual fund in 2009.  Gross, whose firm is based in Newport Beach,  California ,
owned 206,600 shares of Pimco High Income, valued at about $2.5
million based on a $12.09 per-share price, according to a Dec.
14, 2010, regulatory filing. Gross in late 2009 recommended
buying the fund, which prompted a surge in the premium in a
“self-fulfilling prophecy,” said RiverNorth’s Galley.  Highest Since 2009  The  Pimco High Income Fund (PHK)  reached a 72 percent premium on
Jan. 11, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, the highest
since May 2009, when Gross took over management of the fund.
Pimco’s payout, calculated as the latest distribution,
annualized and as a percentage of the fund’s market price, is
almost twice as much as the 6.5 percent average distribution
rate for competing bond closed-end funds, data compiled by
Chicago-based Morningstar Inc. show.  Other closed-end bond funds trading at high premiums as of
Feb. 14 include the Pioneer High Income Trust, whose share price
is 33 percent more than the value of its underlying holdings,
and the Western Asset Premier Bond Fund, at a 24 percent
premium, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Among U.S.
equity funds, the Gabelli Utility Trust has the highest premium,
at 41 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The data
includes closed-end funds in the U.S. with more than $100
million in assets.  Gundlach’s Premium  Jeffrey Gundlach , manager of last year’s top performing
mortgage fund, last month opened a closed-end fund to invest in
bonds including mortgage-backed securities, emerging-market debt
and developed-market credit. The fund, DoubleLine Opportunistic
Credit Fund, raised $327 million in a Jan. 27 offering and is
trading at a 9.8 percent premium.  Gross, the co-chief investment officer of  Newport Beach ,
California-based Pimco, has said that the unprecedented period
of low  interest rates  has squeezed investors, who are being
subjected to “financial repression” because of the Fed’s
policies.  Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke  said last month the central bank
is considering additional asset purchases to boost growth after
extending its pledge to keep interest rates low through at least
late 2014. The 10-year U.S. Treasury yield fell to a four-month
low of 1.797 percent Jan. 31. The average yield for taxable
money funds was 0.03 percent as of Feb. 7, according to
IMoneyNet Inc., a research firm based in Westborough,
 Massachusetts .  Biggest Allure  The biggest allure of closed-end funds for investors is the
distribution, mostly generated from income and gains from
investments, that they pay out to investors in such an
environment, said Cecilia Gondor, executive vice president at
Miami-based Thomas J. Herzfeld Advisors Inc.  There are more than 615 closed-end funds in the U.S., with
a market capitalization of about $220 billion, according to the
firm.  Closed-end funds that invest in bonds are commanding higher
prices as investors have fled riskier asset classes such as
stocks. Bond closed-end funds are trading at an average premium
of 1.3 percent, compared with a 6.2 percent discount on stock
closed-end funds, according to data from Morningstar.  Most Expensive  The four other most expensive Pimco fixed-income funds
include the Pimco Strategic Global Government Fund, which is
trading at a 31 percent premium and offers an 8.1 percent
distribution; the Pimco Corporate & Income Opportunity Fund,
also managed by Gross, which is at a 25 percent premium and
offers a 7.3 percent payout; the Pimco California Municipal
Income Fund II, at a 22 percent premium and paying 7.4 percent;
and the Pimco Corporate & Income Strategy Fund, managed by
Gross, which is at a 20 percent premium and pays 7.6 percent.  “Investors are being attracted to that very high
distribution rate because they can’t get that many other
places,” said Cara Esser, a closed-end fund analyst at
Morningstar. “The Pimco brand probably has something to do with
it too -- people like Pimco, so many Pimco funds sell at very
large premiums.”  Investors like bond closed-end funds because they tend to
have less risk than equity funds and their payouts are less
likely to include returns of capital, said John Cole Scott,
portfolio manager of Richmond, Virginia-based Closed-End Fund
Advisors, an investment advisory firm registered with the
Securities and Exchange Commission that oversees $70 million in
assets. Distribution rates for equity closed-end funds are
higher because they tend to reflect return of capital, he said.  Returning Capital  Closed-end funds that have a policy of distributing a fixed
yield may also return investors’ own capital in the form of a
distribution, said Gondor. Although the practice has gotten a
“bad rap” because it can reduce the net assets of the fund,
the return of capital can be good for investors in some
instances, such as when the funds distribute capital from
unrealized gains, she said.  About 16 percent of Pimco’s High Income Fund payout in
December was estimated to be return of capital, according to a
statement from Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE (ALV) , Pimco’s parent.  Gross’s fund is able to generate such a high distribution
through leverage and derivatives trading, although there is the
risk that it won’t be able to meet future payouts without
including more return of investor’s capital, according to Esser.
The net asset value of the fund has declined about 19 percent in
the past 12 months, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Adjusting
for distributions paid out to investors, the net asset value
fell 3.1 percent during the same period.  Mark Porterfield , a spokesman for Pimco, declined to
comment on the closed-end funds.  Using Leverage  Many closed-end funds use leverage, or borrowed money, to
boost payouts. Leverage allows the funds to take advantage of
low interest rates and borrow relatively cheaply while investing
at long-term rates that are higher.  Closed-end funds tumbled during the 2008 financial crisis
as markets declined and borrowing dried up. They were also
squeezed by the collapse in February 2008 of the auction-rate
market, which historically helped managers raise money to boost
returns. Many, including the Pimco High Income Fund, suspended
dividend payments as assets plunged and they couldn’t use
leverage. Pimco restored dividends on its closed-end funds when
the markets rebounded in 2009.  Premiums and discounts are less important than the net
asset values and share prices of the closed-end funds
themselves, said Morningstar’s Esser. Funds trading at high
premiums such as Pimco’s could deflate, like overvalued stocks,
if investors think the fund is too expensive and will sell to
take profits while they can, according to Esser.  ‘Big Risk’  “It’s a big risk when you have these funds trading at high
premiums,” said Esser.  The fluctuations of a closed-end fund’s market price also
lead to higher volatility, as does the use of leverage. That
might surprise investors who are looking for stability with a
fixed-income fund, said Esser. Pimco’s High Income Fund has a
risk rating of “high” from Morningstar, in part because of its
volatility, Esser said.  Volatility could also be exacerbated if a closed-end fund
uses derivatives, which are contracts whose value is derived
from stocks, bonds, currencies and commodities, said Sangeeta
Marfatia, a closed-end fund analyst in the New York office of
UBS AG.  She recommended funds that are trading at cheaper premiums,
such as  Legg Mason Inc. (LM) ’s  Western Asset Managed High Income
Fund (MHY) , which is at a 4.8 percent premium and doesn’t include
return of capital in its payouts.  ‘Smart Investors’  “Smart investors should really take advantage of these
premiums and lock in their gains by selling,” Marfatia said,
referring to funds with the highest premiums.  The Pimco High Income Fund invests at least 50 percent of
its assets in U.S. dollar-denominated high-yield debt, according
to information posted on the firm’s website. The fund had 29
percent of its assets in high-yield debt; 25 percent in
investment-grade corporate bonds; 16 percent in  government
securities  and 14 percent in municipal debt as of Dec. 31.  The fund’s return to investors, including dividends, was
6.7 percent in the year ended Feb. 14, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Stable Yield  The Pimco Global StocksPlus Fund, with a market
capitalization of $218 million, invests in stock index
derivatives and futures backed by a portfolio of low-duration
debt. The fund returned 1.9 percent to investors over the past
year, including dividends. The net asset value fell 21 percent
during the same period and adjusting for distributions, the net
asset value declined 6.4 percent.  For some investors, the stable yield still balances out
these risks. Closed-end funds are able to maintain stable levels
of payouts better than regular mutual funds because they have
fixed pools of capital since investors can only buy or sell
shares on the secondary market rather than from the fund itself,
said Alan Goodson, head of product U.S. for London-based
 Aberdeen Asset Management Plc (ADN) , which has North American closed-
end fund assets of more than $5.6 billion.  “Given the interest rate environment, investors are
looking for yield and that’s clearly where closed-end funds tend
to have an advantage over open-end funds,” Goodson said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  