-- Guandong Faces Uncertain Future as Factories Move Out
-- B y   G o r d o n   O r r
-- 2012-02-16T03:29:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/guandong-faces-uncertain-future-as-factories-move-out.html
     There are news reports almost every day about factories
downing their shutters in Guangdong, one of  China 's most
populous and prosperous provinces.  Some are shutting down because the companies that own
them are going bankrupt, while other corporations are moving
inland. For instance, shoe-manufacturer Guangzhou Constant has
relocated its manufacturing facility to Yongzhou in
Hunan, lured by tax breaks and by the prospect of wage costs
that are between 15% and 20% lower. Similarly, Foxconn, which
opened a factory in Zhengzhou in north-central China last
year, has moved thousands of jobs out of Guangdong. Several
multinational corporations, such as America's Coach, are
planning to move their production out of the province (and
China) over the next five years, to other nations such as
Vietnam and  India .  This migratory trend is symptomatic of the long-term
challenges facing Guangdong, which has become China's
export-manufacturing hub over the last 25 years. Will the
province be able to sustain its growth trajectory, or, like
 Michigan  in the U.S., could Guangdong lose its manufacturing
base before it can reinvent itself?  Look at the data. While Guangdong's exports accounted for
as much as 37% of China's exports by 2000, its share dropped
to 28% in 2011. The province's exports growth rate, which was
26% in 2010, fell to 22% in the first nine months of 2011, and
it has continued to decline ever since.  That's why Guangdong's population of migrant workers
declined by 3% every year between 2005 and 2010. The only
positive fallout has been a modest diversification of the
local economy, with exports as a percentage of the province's
GDP declining from as much as 85% in 2005 to a still-high 66%
in 2010.  Many officials in the Guangdong government believe that
the state is well prepared to weather these changes. In
2008, after identifying the weaknesses of the economy, the
provincial government drew up a plan to transform Guangdong by
focusing on the development of the  Pearl River Delta .  Manufacturers' relocation will free land for commercial
and residential development, they believe, which will result
in the urbanization of the province. The rather optimistic
underlying assumption is that toxic materials haven't poisoned
the land and made it unlivable for human beings.  Officials also argue that many factories added little
value; paid minimum taxes; and created few jobs. Closures and
relocation will have a negligible impact on employment; only
migrant workers, who make up 35% of Guangdong's population and
contribute 25% of its economic output, will feel the pinch.  The movement of low-tech manufacturing out of the
province will also result in greater social cohesion, some
argue, because the region's rural areas will endeavor to close
income, development, and education gaps. In fact, the
government has been planning an orderly transformation to an
economy characterized by modern manufacturing — more R&D as
well as more skill-intensive industries — and services.  Can Guangdong manage such a transition before its current
manufacturing base is eroded? It's difficult to say.  The pressures are evident. As the province becomes less
central to Chinese exports, foreign investments have started
to decline. Foreign direct investment in Guangdong grew by 24%
a year in the 1990s, but rose by only 5% annually
thereafter, compared to China's 10% a year.  Guangdong will need highly trained workers to cater to
more advanced sectors. But it doesn't seem to have people with
those skills. Only 9% of Guangdong's population — a smaller
proportion than the national average of 10% — has a college
degree. There aren't enough people in Guangdong who can work
in the industries that the government has prioritized, such as
pharmaceuticals, high-tech, and renewable energy.  Moreover, the proportion of people under the age of 15 in
Guangdong has fallen to 17% compared to 25% in 2000. That
means there will be fewer young people entering the workforce
in the next 10 years. The government will have to turn older
workers into lower-skilled service providers, which will
require a lot of retraining. Besides, older workers are harder
to retrain and retain.  Guangdong may well be able to ride out the fluctuations
in the global economy, but it's far from clear that it will be
able to sustain its growth through the structural transitions
of the local economy. Does that sound familiar?  Gordon Orr is Chairman,  Asia , at McKinsey &
Company, based in  Shanghai .  Visit www.bloomberg.com/sustainability for the latest
from Bloomberg News about energy, natural resources and global
business.
 