-- Gunmen Free 118 Inmates in Nigerian Prison Attack, Kill One
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o   a n d   G b e n g a   A k i n g b u l e
-- 2012-02-16T21:45:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/gunmen-free-118-inmates-in-nigerian-prison-attack-kill-one-1-.html
Gunmen attacked a Nigerian federal
prison, freeing 118 inmates and killing a guard late yesterday
in the central state of Kogi, said Kayode Odeyemi, a spokesman
for the nation’s prison service.  At least 20 inmates declined to escape after the jail
break, while 15 of those freed were re-arrested early today,
Odeyemi said by phone from the prison in the town of Koton
Karfe, about 200 kilometers (124 miles) south of Abuja, the
capital.  In September 2010, the Islamist militant group Boko Haram
freed at least 700 inmates in a jail break in the northeastern
Bauchi State.  The group’s purported spokesman, Abu Qaqa, claimed
responsibility for yesterday’s operation in a phone call to
reporters in the northeastern city of Maiduguri.  Authorities in Nigeria,  Africa ’s top oil producer, blame
Boko Haram, which draws inspiration from  Afghanistan ’s Taliban
movement, for a wave of bombings and attacks in the mainly
Muslim north and Abuja since 2009. Boko Haram freed seven of its
members who are now “safe in one of our camps,” said Qaqa, who
uses a voice-alteration device when he speaks to reporters.  Boko Haram, which means “western education is a sin,”
says it’s fighting to establish Shariah law across the West
African nation. The group claimed responsibility for multiple
blasts and attacks in the city of Kano on Jan. 20 that killed at
least 256 people, according to the Civil Rights Congress.  In another incident,  Nigeria ’s military killed today one
Boko Haram suspect who was about to open fire at a crowded
market in Maiduguri, the capital of Borno state, Victor
Ebhaleme, a spokesman for a military  task force  in the region,
said by phone from the city.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net ;
Gbenga Akingbule in Maiduguri at 
 gakingbule@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  