-- Iberdrola Awards Siemens, Prysmian $1.6 Billion Renewables Link
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-02-16T12:19:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/iberdrola-awards-siemens-prysmian-1-6-billion-renewables-link.html
Iberdrola SA (IBE)  and  National Grid Plc (NG/) 
awarded  Siemens AG (SIE)  and  Prysmian (PRY)  SpA a 1 billion-pound ($1.6
billion) contract to build an undersea link to transmit
renewable power between England, Wales and Scotland.  Siemens and Prysmian, a Milan-based cable maker, will build
the first subsea electricity connection between the nations for
operation by 2016, Iberdrola said in a  statement  today. It’s the
first major project as part of Iberdrola’s 2.6 billion-pound
plan to upgrade its U.K. transmission network.  Scotland is seeking to get all of its electricity needs
from renewable sources by 2020. That will require the nation’s
generating capacity to double at a cost of 46 billion pounds,
 Peter Atherton , a Citigroup Inc. analyst, forecast on Nov. 1.  The Scottish National Party government plans a referendum
on independence from the rest of Britain in the second half of
2014. Utilities such as SSE Plc and Iberdrola’s Scottish Power
unit should exercise “extreme caution” in committing further
capital to  Scotland  until it’s clear subsidies on new projects
would be 100 percent legally guaranteed, Atherton said.  Iberdrola expects to invest 2.6 billion pounds from 2013 to
2021 upgrading its U.K. network and may spend 12 billion pounds
in total in the U.K. this decade, including major offshore wind
projects, according to the company. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
and Scottish First Minister  Alex Salmond  are meeting today in
Edinburgh to discuss the referendum.  The company’s 260-mile (418 kilometer) high voltage cable
will run from Hunterston in Ayrshire to North Wales. The
upgrade, which is subject to planning approvals, will increase
transmission capacity by more than 2,000 megawatts and allow
grid access for 6 gigawatts of new renewable energy projects in
Scotland, according to Iberdrola.  The U.K.’s target to get 15 percent of its energy from low-
carbon sources by 2020 means links need to be improved to
transport power produced at remote wind farms on land or
offshore to consumers.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  