-- Icahn Offers to Buy CVR Energy in at Least $2.6 Billion Deal
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2012-02-16T22:23:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/icahn-offers-to-buy-cvr-energy-in-deal-with-value-of-at-least-2-6-billion.html
Carl Icahn  offered to pay $30 a
share in cash for  CVR Energy Inc. (CVI)  and give stockholders the
right to collect an additional $7 a share if any other bidder
tries to buy the oil-refining company.  Icahn, CVR’s largest shareholder with 14.5 percent, said
the company is worth at least $37 a share, a 34 percent premium
to yesterday’s closing price, according to a statement today.
The unsolicited bid values CVR at a minimum of $2.6 billion,
based on a $30-a-share price for all outstanding shares.  The billionaire investor told the company’s management
 three days ago  that it wasn’t doing enough to increase
 shareholder value  and  Sugar Land , Texas-based CVR should be put
up for sale. Western Refining Inc., HollyFrontier Corp.,  Tesoro
Corp. (TSO) ,  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) , Marathon Petroleum Corp. or
ConocoPhillips may be potential buyers for CVR, he said today.  “My only concern is his ability to convince these
companies mentioned to pay $37 a share for this company in this
market given their weak balance sheets,” said Eliecer Palacios,
an energy sector specialist at Maxim Group LLC. “Refining is a
very tight club of people and they all know each other. I don’t
think these companies are interested in paying top dollar for
these refineries.”  CVR’s board “will review all of Mr. Icahn’s actions and
respond as appropriate in due course,” the company said.  Exiting the Business  CVR  rose  5.8 percent to $29.20 at the close in  New York .
The shares have gained 31 percent since Icahn’s stake in the
company was disclosed last month.  Known for investing in companies and agitating for
strategic changes with management, Icahn has chosen to buy into
refining at a time when some are exiting the business to focus
on more profitable activities.  Sunoco Inc., which owned refineries for 117 years,
announced last year it was selling or shutting its units to
focus on pipelines and retail gasoline stations. Marathon Oil
Corp. spun off its refining business and ConocoPhillips plans to
do the same to focus on more lucrative exploration and
production of petroleum.  Exxon Mobil Corp. agreed to sell its Japanese refining
business for $3.9 billion last month.  Three refineries in  Pennsylvania  may be sold or shut
permanently,  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and Sunoco have said. BP Plc is
seeking buyers for refineries in Texas and  California  and Tesoro
is trying to sell a Hawaii facility.  ‘Buyer’s Market’  “This is a buyer’s market for refineries -- if somebody’s
interested in refining, they’ve got lots of choices,”  David
Hackett , president of Stillwater Associates LLC, an energy
consulting firm in  Irvine , California, said yesterday. “It’s
not clear to me that they would step up and pay top dollar for
this one when there are a bunch of other ones in the market.”  CVR completed the $525 million purchase of a 70,000 barrel-
a-day refinery in Wynnewood,  Oklahoma , in December. With its
Coffeyville, Kansas, plant, the company can process 185,000
daily barrels of crude. It also owns a majority interest in CVR
Partners LP, which produces fertilizer.  The company may benefit from a larger owner that can take
help it take advantage of lower crude prices in the middle of
the U.S., Icahn said in a Feb. 14 filing.  “We think there’s a lot more value in it if it were
sold,” he said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Refiners such as CVR who operate near where oil is produced
and stored from production in emerging U.S. fields were able to
buy crude for an average of $15.69 a barrel  less  than the global
benchmark price last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  CVR Cash  “Some of these refineries near cheap crude are among the
most profitable in the world right now,” John Auers, senior
vice president of Dallas-based consultant Turner, Mason & Co.,
said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Icahn’s purchase price would represent the lowest valuation
relative to earnings of any takeover greater than $500 million
in the U.S. oil refining and marketing industry. CVR had $898
million in cash and near-cash items on its  balance sheet  at the
end of September, about 35 percent of the Icahn purchase price,
according to Bloomberg calculations.  Icahn intends to nominate all new board members for the
company and remove a so-called poison pill put in place last
month to protect the company from unsolicited takeovers,
according to the statement.  Spokesmen for Western, Valero, Marathon Petroleum,
HollyFrontier, ConocoPhillips and Tesoro either declined to
comment or didn’t respond to calls and e-mails seeking a
response.  Deutsche Bank AG and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are serving
as financial advisers to CVR and Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz
is serving as its legal adviser.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  