-- Icahn Pushing CVR Sale Means $1 Billion for Investors: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e ,   B r a d l e y   O l s o n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-02-16T19:55:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/icahn-pushing-cvr-s-sale-means-1-billion-gain-for-shareholders-real-m-a.html
Potential acquirers could scoop up
 CVR Energy Inc. (CVI)  at the cheapest takeover valuation on record for
a U.S. oil refiner and still reward shareholders with a billion
dollar windfall.  Even with the stock’s  24 percent  gain since billionaire
 Carl Icahn  disclosed an investment in January, a buyer could
offer about a 40 percent premium and still purchase CVR at the
lowest valuation relative to earnings of any takeover greater
than $500 million in the U.S. oil refining and marketing
industry, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Icahn, CVR’s
biggest investor, urged the Sugar Land, Texas-based company this
week to put itself up for sale.  While Icahn failed to secure takeovers of companies from
 Clorox Co. (CLX)  to Mentor Graphics Corp. last year, CVR may attract
interest from  HollyFrontier Corp. (HFC)  and private equity-backed
Northern Tier Energy Inc., said John Auers, an oil industry
consultant at Turner, Mason & Co. The $2.4 billion company owns
two refineries in  Kansas  and  Oklahoma , which are near U.S.-
produced oil that traded at a record discount to global prices
last year as new production techniques such as “fracking”
flooded the Midwest market with cheaper crude. Depressed prices
are boosting CVR’s profit from turning the fuel into gasoline.  “It’s trading at a very inexpensive valuation,”  Walter Todd , who oversees $940 million as chief investment officer at
Greenwood Capital in Greenwood,  South Carolina , said in a
telephone interview. “Refiners in general are cheap right now.
To the extent that there’s consolidation in the refining
business, CVR is of the size that makes that a little bit easier.
It’s easier to make changes with a $2 billion company than it is
with a company like Clorox.”  Oil Refineries  Neale Hickerson, a spokesman for HollyFrontier, said the
company doesn’t comment on market speculation. Northern Tier
Chief Executive Officer Mario Rodriguez didn’t return a call
seeking comment.  “We’re a public company and we entertain any offers, but I
can’t comment on speculation,” said  Steve Eames , a CVR
spokesman.  CVR  rose  5.8 percent to $29.20 at 2:40 p.m. in  New York ,
the highest intraday level in five months, after Icahn announced
a tender offer to buy the company for $30 a share. The proposal
includes a contingent value right entitling investors who tender
their shares to an additional payment if a buyer offers more
money in the next nine months. A strategic buyer could pay at
least $37 a share, he said in today’s statement. Icahn said he
will proceed with the offer and nomination of 9 directors if the
company is not put up for sale.  ‘Cut and Dry’  CVR’s refineries in Coffeyville, Kansas, and Wynnewood,
Oklahoma, are capable of processing a combined  185,000 barrels  a
day and have access to cheaper crude being produced from shale
rock formations in emerging U.S. oil fields. The company, which
also owns a majority interest in fertilizer-producer CVR
Partners LP, was taken public in 2007 by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Icahn, who made millions in the 1980s pressuring companies
from USX Corp. to Texaco Inc. to split up or increase dividends
and buybacks, disclosed in a  regulatory filing  made public on
Jan. 13 that he owned a 14.5 percent stake in CVR through
subsidiaries of his holding company,  Icahn Enterprises LP. (IEP)   The hedge fund manager told CVR Chairman and CEO Jack Lipinski on Feb. 13 that he should put CVR up for sale to profit
from higher gasoline prices.  “We think there’s a lot more value in it if it were
sold,” Icahn, 76, said in a phone interview yesterday. “It’s
just cut and dry. This company is worth a lot more if it’s sold
to another refinery where they could get the synergies and, more
importantly, the ability to lock in a lot of the crack spread.”  Crack Spread  CVR’s earnings have been boosted by a widening of the so-
called “crack spread,” a measure of refining profitability
that tracks the gap between oil costs and fuel prices. The  crack
spread  rose to an all-time high of $37.96 for operators in the
Midwest on Aug. 19, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The 2011
 average  of $25.11 was more than double the spread in 2010.  CVR’s advantage among refiners is driven by a 14 percent
increase in average U.S. crude production in the first 11 months
of 2011 compared with 2008, including in  North Dakota ’s Bakken
field, where output has more than  tripled  in that time,
according to the  U.S. Energy Information Administration.   New production techniques, including hydraulic fracturing,
known as fracking, have unlocked oil and natural gas previously
trapped in shale rock formations. In fracking, a mixture of
water, sand and chemicals is shot underground to blast apart
rock and free fossil fuels.  ‘Cheap Crude’  Higher output has depressed the cost of crude for refiners
such as CVR who operate in the Midwest, near the new wells.  Oil (CLCO1) 
there has traded at a record $15.69 discount to the global crude
benchmark, which is used to set gasoline prices, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That means for every barrel
processed at a refinery, they may pay $15.69 less than a
competitor on the East Coast or West Coast for crude that is
turned into gasoline and diesel fuel.  “Some of these refineries near cheap crude are among the
most profitable in the world right now,” Auers, of Dallas-based
consultancy Turner, said in a phone interview. “Over the last
three or four years, especially more recently, the explosion of
crude production in North Dakota in the Bakken field and strong
growth in Canadian production has saturated the Midwest with
crude oil.”  HollyFrontier, formed by Holly Corp.’s almost $3.5 billion
purchase of Frontier Oil Corp. last year, and private equity-
backed  Northern Tier (NTI) , which has filed for an  initial public
offering , may see CVR as an opportunity to expand their
footprint in areas with access to cheap crude, Auers said.  $1 Billion Windfall  CVR would command at least $34 a share in a takeover, about
23 percent more than yesterday’s closing price of $27.60, Sam Margolin, an analyst with Global Hunter Securities LLC in New
York, said in a phone interview this week.  Even if an acquirer were to pay as much as $38.78 a share,
or about a 40 percent premium, CVR’s equity, net cash and
minority interests would still be cheaper relative to  earnings 
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization than any
other takeover of a U.S. oil refiner and marketer greater than
$500 million, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The industry’s
lowest Ebitda multiple was  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) ’s purchase of
Ultramar Diamond Shamrock Corp. at 4.86 times Ebitda, announced
in 2001, the data show.  A takeover of CVR at a 40 percent premium would equate to
an equity value of almost $3.4 billion, which is $1 billion more
than its market value as of yesterday. CVR has more than $300
million in  net cash  and $148 million in  minority interests .  Finding a Buyer  “Icahn is attempting to pull forward returns for the
shareholder that otherwise may not be delivered until sometime
out in the future,”  Ted Harper , who helps manage $6.8 billion
for Frost Investment Advisors LLC in Houston, said in a phone
interview. “I would definitely think that the asset could be
something that would attract some interest.”  While CVR looks cheap, it may be difficult to find a buyer
that wants to own the entire company, including the majority
interest in fertilizer-producer CVR Partners, said Louis Meyer,
a special situations analyst at Oscar Gruss & Son Inc.  “It’s probably not going to be sold unless you find a buyer
that absolutely wants to participate in the fertilizer market,”
Meyer, who’s based in New York, said in a phone interview.
“That makes it a little less attractive to somebody wanting to
just get pure refining capability.”  Clorox, Lions Gate  Icahn failed in advocating for a takeover of Clorox last
year, even after offering to backstop an auction for the bleach
maker. Since the start of 2010, power producer Dynegy Inc.,
software company Mentor Graphics, film maker  Lions Gate 
Entertainment Corp. and steel-scrap recycler Commercial Metals
Co. also received acquisition offers from Icahn that were never
consummated.  This time around, potential buyers for CVR may include
 Western Refining Inc. (WNR) , HollyFrontier,  Tesoro Corp. (TSO) , Valero,
Marathon Petroleum Corp. and  ConocoPhillips (COP) , Icahn said in the
interview yesterday.  “The synergies, some are bigger than others, some have the
cash, some don’t, so it would depend,” Icahn said in the
interview. “But I think that the synergies and the
diversification aspects of a transaction for one of these guys
would be very compelling.”  Western spokesman  Gary Hanson , Valero spokesman  Bill Day ,
 Marathon Petroleum (MPC)  spokeswoman Angelia Graves and ConocoPhillips
spokesman Rich Johnson declined to comment on market speculation.
Tesoro didn’t respond to a call to its general media line or an
e-mail seeking comment.  “Icahn obviously has a very good long-term track record
with these types of issues,” said Todd of  Greenwood Capital .
“I wouldn’t necessarily bet against him. He’s had a few misses.
He may be due to come through on one.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at +1-214-954-9455 or  susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 