-- Microchip Implant Makes Remote-Controlled Drug Delivery Possible
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-02-16T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/microchip-implant-makes-remote-controlled-drug-delivery-possible.html
A remote-controlled microchip that’s
implanted in patients and programmed to release medication on
schedule worked in its first trial, validating a new approach
that could help improve drug management in chronic diseases.  The device, made by closely held  MicroCHIPS Inc.,  based in
Waltham,  Massachusetts , delivered doses of a generic version of
 Eli Lilly & Co. ’s injectable osteoporosis drug Forteo to seven
women, ages 65 to 70, without adverse effects, according to a
study published online today by Science Translational Medicine.  The technology is designed to provide a more convenient and
accurate method of drug dosing, which could improve patient
compliance in taking medicines. People with ailments such as
chronic pain, cancer, multiple sclerosis and conditions that
require frequent drug injections would benefit from such a
device, said Michael Cima, a professor of engineering at the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology  and a study author.  “This is for drug therapies that can’t be delivered
orally, so we’re replacing multiple daily injections with a
single device under the skin,” Cima said in a telephone
interview.  Forteo , the medication used to test the device, is usually
delivered by injection. Because osteoporosis doesn’t have
noticeable symptoms, and injections are uncomfortable, many
patients don’t take all their medicine, Cima said.  “With osteoporosis, you don’t feel bad until you break a
hip,” Cima said. “And in elderly patients, a hip fracture can
be a death sentence.”  30-Minute Visit  The device was implanted during a 30-minute doctor’s visit,
and remained in the patient for four months. The patients
weren’t uncomfortable after the device was implanted, according
to the study. There were 20 doses of the drug in the chips.
MicroCHIPS is developing implants that could carry hundreds of
doses, Cima said.  The microchip can be programmed remotely and would enable
doctors to make adjustments to the treatment schedule when
needed.  MicroCHIPS was formed based on work done by Cima and Robert Langer, another MIT scientist who co-authored the paper. Cima is
on the scientific advisory board of the company. The company is
headed by another study author, Robert Farra.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 