-- Microsoft’s MSN Aims to Lure Younger Internet Users by Touting Hot Trends
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-02-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/microsoft-s-msn-aims-to-lure-younger-users-by-touting-hot-trends.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , trying to attract
younger Internet users, is bolstering its MSN site with a
service that produces short news synopses based on popular
topics on search and social-media sites such as Twitter Inc.  Called msnNOW, the product scans Twitter, Facebook Inc.,
BreakingNews.com and Microsoft’s own Bing search engine every
five minutes. MSN’s staff then create 100-word articles on the
news and post them with related video, news and social-media
posts. Besides a Web version, msnNOW will have be available on
Facebook and mobile devices, MSN General Manager Bob Visse said.  Web portals such as  MSN , Yahoo! Inc. and AOL Inc. have
struggled to hold on to younger users, who increasingly get
their news from social networks. Microsoft is trying to appeal
to more people age 25 to 40 by making it easier to view
information on the day’s hot topics from multiple sources. MSN
typically attracts older customers and more casual  Internet
users , rather than information junkies, Visse said.  “We skew a little bit older and a little bit lighter usage
than we’d like,” he said.  Besides leaning heavily on social-networking sources to win
over younger users, msnNOW also is looking to delve into
“edgier topics,” Visse said. A demonstration of the product
this week featured a piece on “butt cleavage.”  The feature won’t have advertisements at first, though
Microsoft will add them in the future, he said. In subsequent
versions, the Redmond, Washington-based company also may be able
to respond to users’ behavior by tailoring topics and stories to
their tastes, Visse said.  “For us to grow in the demographic we want, we have to
show something quite different,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  