-- Midwest Farmland Prices Rise at Fastest Pace Since ’76, Fed Says
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-02-16T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/midwest-farmland-prices-rise-at-fastest-pace-since-76-fed-says.html
Farmland values in part of the U.S.
Midwest rose last year at the fastest pace since 1976 as prices
surged for agricultural goods ranging from corn to dairy
products, according to the  Federal Reserve (FDTR)  Bank of Chicago.  The value of farmland during 2011 gained 22 percent in the
seventh Fed district, which includes Iowa and most of  Illinois ,
 Indiana ,  Michigan  and Wisconsin, the regional bank said today.
The value reached a record both before and after adjusting for
inflation, according to 205 surveys of agricultural banks.  “The year 2011 may go down in the annals of U.S.
agriculture as a once-in-a-generation phenomenon,” David B. Oppedahl, an economist at the Chicago Fed, wrote in a report.
“Undergirding the huge upward movement in farmland values was
an unusual shift up in agricultural prices across the board.”  The boom in farmland contrasts with a depressed U.S.
housing market, which Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has said
impedes the U.S. expansion. Kansas City Fed President Esther George warned last month that farm prices may go bust.  “Farmland values are soaring to unprecedented levels,”
George said in a Jan. 10 speech. “I hear from many well-
informed, concerned voices across our region wondering whether
this could be a bubble.”  “These types of events have played out in the past, and
the results were not kind to the industry involved or its
banks,” she said.  Bankers expect farmland prices to continue surging. Some 43
percent of respondents said agricultural land will rise this
quarter, compared with the 2 percent who expect a decrease,
according to the Chicago Fed survey.  Farm Loans  Credit conditions for agriculture in the region also
improved last year. Loan repayment rates for non-real-estate
farms surged in the fourth quarter, while  interest rates  on
agricultural loans dropped during the period, the report said.  Corn and soybean price gains drove profitability in farming
nationwide, Oppendahl said. Even so, swings in commodity prices
remain a risk for farmland owners, he said.  “Wide swings in prices make risk-management strategies
even more vital for agricultural enterprises, whether or not
there is a higher level for agricultural prices in the era
ahead,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  