-- If U.S. Troops Pull Out, Economic Growth May Slow: Amity Shlaes
-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 2012-02-16T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/if-u-s-troops-pull-out-economic-growth-may-slow-amity-shlaes.html
Out. Everywhere. Yesterday. Those
three words sum up the mood here at home when it comes to
American military presence outside U.S. borders.  President  Barack Obama  is signaling he wants to get out of
 Afghanistan  so badly that he’s even taking a few political
gambles to accelerate a pullout. There’s also a more general
sense that putting soldiers in other countries has proved a bad
investment for everyone involved, rendering those nations
sadder, rougher and poorer.  Given the parlous budgetary conditions in the U.S., the
thinking goes, it would be better to slash U.S. defense
spending. We need money at home. This week, Obama  proposed 
reductions in military spending, saying a cut suited our
“strategic priorities.”  Yet the opposite may be true, at least when it comes to the
most obvious form of investment: in economic growth abroad. That
is the finding of a  study  published in recent weeks by  Garett
Jones  of  George Mason University  in  Virginia  and Tim Kane of the
 Kansas City , Missouri-based Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation.  The more troops, the scholars  found , the more growth.
Looking at Navy, Army, Marine and Air Force presence in 94
countries over 50 years -- 1950 to 2000 -- the authors found
that putting U.S. troops in a country, starting from 0 to a
presence of 100,000, about the number we had in  Germany  during
the period studied, was over time associated with an increase in
the per-capita growth rate of that country by an extra 1.8
percentage points a year. Even an increase from 10 to 100 troops
corresponded with a rise in growth of a third of a percentage
point on average.  Bases Build Nations  “This study suggests  Africa  is poorer than it would have
been with more active alliances between the U.S. and its many
countries, particularly because of the absence of U.S. bases
there,” Kane said in a telephone interview. Right now the
concept of nation building is unpopular. But, Kane says, the
study suggests that “nation building has a half-century track
record worth remembering.”  It’s worth noting that such sweeping conclusions are only
possible because of something many young Americans never knew or
have forgotten: that the U.S. was everywhere once, and for a
long time. The Pentagon had an average of 730,000 soldiers
stationed abroad in the 1950s and 762,000 during the 1960s. Then
the numbers dropped to 502,000 in the 1970s, 447,000 in the
1980s and 269,000 in the 1990s. In any given decade, at least 26
nations and as many as 49 nations hosted American troops,
according to data assembled by the authors using Pentagon
figures.  Most Americans, with the exception of the  United Auto
Workers , understand that the cars that Japan and Germany sold us
after we helped those countries recover from World War II
enriched the wealth of both nations. But is the experience of
the previous century, when troops were heavily concentrated in
European countries with courts and diverse economies, applicable
in places such as Afghanistan or Iraq? In one encouraging sign,
Jones and Kane found that growth in places with fewer such
institutions still accelerated when GIs were present. A prime
example is  Turkey .  What about military, economic or social aid instead of
actual troops? These days, it seems an easy substitute to the
U.S. voter, battle-fatigued as he is more than a decade after
Sept. 11 and two decades after Operation Desert Storm. But the
authors found that “more troops predict growth, but more aid
does not,” Jones says. “Aid is not a good substitute for
growth, even military aid,” he adds.  Conversely, the absence of soldiers seemed to hurt. Nations
that asked the U.S. to withdraw, like  France  in the 1960s and
 Thailand  in the 1970s, afterward paid a growth penalty.  Multiplier Effect  The amount of growth forgone in Africa due to the absence
of longstanding troops is tragic, Kane says. The 7 percent
annual growth once predicted for  Ghana  by World Bank types would
have been more easily realized with troops, he says, than with
all the aid it received. Basing  Africa Command , a strategic
group designed to serve Africa, outside of Africa is perverse,
Kane says. It’s almost ridiculous for Africa Command to have the
address it does: Stuttgart-Moehringen.  The usual explanation for the growth would be the
multiplier effect. The local laundry or electrician gets
contracts from the base; that laundry owner or electrician then
spends what he earned on other businesses in his economy. But
multiplier effects don’t last, just as stimuli don’t last at
home. Jones and Kane found robust long-term growth that
correlates more with another effect: the exemplar effect. When
locals saw how the Army or Navy did business -- that it honored
contracts or delivered on time -- it changed the business
culture and courts. Locals trusted one another more, laws
changed, and these factors, in turn, strengthened commerce.  Interestingly, the troop growth effects prevail even after
the U.S. leaves a place where it has been for a long time.
Sometimes there is an initial collapse caused by command
economics, as was the case of the Communist regime that took
over in  Vietnam . But when such countries open up, they tend to
grow faster than countries that never had a U.S. military
presence. The troops’ presence also tended to bring in foreign
direct investment from the U.S., supplying capital to locals.
This analysis is in line with work by scholars, such as  Mancur
Olson , who belong to a non-Keynesian school of thought known as
public choice theory.  What can all this tell us about  Iraq  or Afghanistan? One
thing, says Kane, is how wrong the U.S. was to hide in green
zones and in fighter jets. General David Petraeus, he said, had
the right idea when it came to going out into the population and
embedding there. “A larger lesson is that engaging in the
broader  Middle East  isn’t just about killing bad guys,” Kane
says. “It is crucial to have presence and build alliances in
countries like Turkey, where thousands of U.S. troops have been
for decades.”  Countries that feel they can count on a U.S. presence
prosper under the certainty of the security umbrella and then
trade with the U.S. The current thinking may be backward.
Defense spending, said to be part of America’s growth problem,
may instead be part of its growth solution.  ( Amity Shlaes  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
director of the Four Percent Growth Project at the Bush
Institute. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 