-- Life Technologies, ‘Linsanity,’ UConn: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-02-16T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/life-technologies-linsanity-uconn-intellectual-property.html
Life Technologies Corp. (LIFE)  was told by
a U.S. jury to pay $52 million for infringing patents owned by
Promega Corp. related to genetic testing.  The federal jury in Madison,  Wisconsin , also found that
Life’s infringement of the patents was intentional, closely held
Promega said in a statement. That means U.S. District Judge
Barbara Crabb could increase the award by as much as three times
the verdict.  The dispute was over tests that are used to compare DNA
samples for use in forensics and paternity tests. The patents
cover a way to amplify certain regions on a DNA strand, called
short tandem repeat, to perform the analysis.  The judge in November upheld the validity of Promega’s
short tandem repeat patents, and found infringement by Carlsbad,
California-based Life, Promega said.  “The court’s ruling and the jury award confirm the value
of Promega STR technology and its contributions to genetic
analysis in the fields of research and molecular diagnostics,”
Bill Linton, chief executive officer of Madison-based Promega,
said in a statement.  Promega said the technology also can be used in genetic
research, bone marrow transplant monitoring and cancer analysis.  The case is Promega Corp. v. Life Technologies Corp.,
10cv281, U.S. District Court for the Western District of
Wisconsin (Madison).  Apple Asks Bankruptcy Court to Approve Patent Suit Against Kodak  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  asked a bankruptcy judge for permission to sue
Eastman Kodak Co. over allegations it’s infringing patents that
Apple says cover technologies used in printers, digital cameras
and digital picture frames.  Apple said in a filing Feb. 14 in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
New York that it intends to file a complaint against Kodak at
the International Trade Commission and a corresponding suit in
U.S. District Court in  Manhattan  based on patent-infringement
claims.  While arguing bankruptcy law doesn’t prevent the filing of
infringement suits against a company in court protection,
“Apple requests express authority from this court before it
initiates the actions out of an abundance of caution,” the
company’s lawyers wrote in the filing.  Kodak will have the right to ask the court to halt the
district court case until the ITC makes its ruling, though a
court order on that request “is not required before Apple
commences” its lawsuits, Apple said in the filing.  Apple previously claimed it is the true owner of the image-
preview patent that is the subject of infringement claims lodged
against Apple and  Research in Motion Ltd . The Cupertino,
California-based company contends that it developed a digital
camera in the early 1990s that it shared with Kodak, and that
Kodak then sought the patent on the technology. Kodak has denied
the allegations.  The U.S. International Trade Commission rejected the
ownership arguments in a case that’s still pending at the
Washington agency. Those arguments are also an issue in the
lawsuit now on hold in federal court in Rochester,  New York . In
the Feb. 14 filing, Apple asked to move that case to Manhattan.  Apple has objected to a patent-infringement complaint that
Kodak filed last month at the ITC against Apple and HTC Corp. In
a Feb. 7 filing with the agency, Apple argued that the ITC
shouldn’t investigate the complaint because of the bankruptcy
filing and the company’s plan to sell its patents and digital
camera business.  “It is against the public interest for the commission to
expend its resources initiating and prosecuting an investigation
when it is known, based on Kodak’s own admissions, that Kodak
will be selling the asserted patents and divesting itself of the
parts of its business” that are part of the ITC case.  Kodak, in a Feb. 10 response, said the bankruptcy doesn’t
alter the fact that the company has invested in digital imaging
technology and continues to seek licenses for its inventions.
The commission is scheduled to decide by Feb. 23 whether it will
institute the investigation.  Photography pioneer, which introduced its $1 Brownie Camera
more than a century ago, filed for bankruptcy Jan. 19 after
consumers embraced digital cameras, a technology Kodak invented
and failed to commercialize.  The company, based in Rochester, listed assets of $5.1
billion and debt of $6.8 billion in Chapter 11 documents.  Andrew Dietderich, a lawyer for Kodak, didn’t immediately
return a call yesterday after regular business hours seeking
comment on Apple’s filing.  The case is In re  Eastman Kodak Co. (EK) , 12-10202, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  ‘Linsanity’ Reaches Patent Office as Knicks Win Streak Goes On  Linsanity has reached the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office
as Jeremy Lin continues to lead the  New York Knicks ’ winning
streak.  Yenchin Chang, a 35-year-old Alhambra, California,
resident, was the first of two people to file a trademark
application for the term “Linsanity.” The catch phrase is
being used to describe the frenzy surrounding the Knicks point
guard who got a 3-pointer in the last second to seal a 90-87 win
against the Toronto Raptors on Feb. 14.  Chang, who like Lin is of Taiwanese descent, said he isn’t
affiliated with the 23-year-old, Harvard University-educated
player who has guided the Knicks to a six-game winning streak
after being released by the Golden State Warriors.  “I wanted to be a part of the excitement,” Chang, who
attended East Los Angeles College and who works in the
import/export business, said in a telephone interview. “I’m
very proud of Jeremy.”  Chang said he would be willing to sell the trademark if he
gained it and Lin wanted it.  “I’ll think about it when that time comes,” Chang said.
“Right now, I just want to have some fun with it.”  Chang made his filing on Feb. 7, according to the patent
and trademark office website. Lin, who wasn’t drafted by any
National Basketball Association team and had been signed and cut
by two clubs before landing with the Knicks in December, made
the first of his five consecutive starts the previous night.  Lin’s jersey is the NBA’s top online seller since Feb. 4,
when he got his first prolonged action off the New York bench
and had 25 points and seven assists against the New Jersey Nets.
Sales of Knicks merchandise are higher than any other team since
then, accounting for five of the 10 most popular items.  The second filing was made on Feb. 9 by Andrew W. Slayton
of Los Altos,  California . An Andrew Slayton who said he used to
coach Lin in high school told the New York Post that in 2010 he
registered the domain names Linsanity.com and
thejeremylinshow.com, where Lin-related merchandise is being
sold.  Slayton, who, according to the newspaper, works as a
physical education teacher at Pinewood High School in Los Altos,
told the Post that Lin isn’t aware of the websites.  A message left for Barbara Hantke, director of
communications for Pinewood, wasn’t immediately returned.
Slayton’s telephone number isn’t listed.  Gary Krugman, a partner at the Washington-based firm
Sughrue Mion, said in a telephone interview that he would advise
Lin to file his own application and contest whichever of the
others gets published.  “I have a feeling both of these guys are small
operators,” he said. “If Jeremy comes in with a big  law firm 
they won’t be able to hang with him.”  Roger Montgomery, Lin’s agent, didn’t immediately respond
to an e-mail seeking comment on the trademark applications.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  AMSC Says Chinese Court Denied Sinovel Motion to Move Suit  American Superconductor Corp. (AMSC) , a U.S. maker of wind-turbine
components, said a Chinese court denied a motion by  Sinovel Wind
Group Co. (601558)  to transfer a lawsuit to arbitration.  The Beijing No. 1 Intermediate People’s Court yesterday
rejected a request from  China ’s largest wind-turbine maker to
move the case to the Beijing Arbitration Commission, Devens,
Massachusetts-based AMSC said yesterday in a statement.  AMSC says Sinovel, formerly its largest customer, violated
sales contracts and stole  intellectual property . The civil suit
is one of three seeking more than $1.2 billion in damages. A
provincial court on Feb. 3 dismissed the smallest case, which
will be heard in arbitration.  “Sinovel is trying to get everything to go to arbitration
and not be sued in a regular court, and in this case the court
said no,”  Theodore O’Neill , an analyst at Wunderlich Securities
Inc. in New York, said yesterday in an interview. “It’s one for
Sinovel, one for American Superconductor. It continues to be a
Mexican hat dance.”  The Feb. 14 ruling is for a software copyright infringement
suit, seeking a cease and desist order and damages of $6
million. The decision couldn’t be independently confirmed at
this time.  The earlier ruling, by the Hainan Province No. 1
Intermediate People’s Court, was for a copyright infringement
case seeking $200,000 in damages.  Australian Court Says Internet Radio the Same as Broadcast  Australia ’s federal court has ruled that musicians and
record labels are not entitled to additional payment when
broadcast music is also streamed over the Internet, the Sydney
Morning Herald  reported .  The Photographing Performance Co. of Australia, which had
argued unsuccessfully that copyright licenses granted to
commercial radio stations don’t cover Internet streaming, said
it’s considering appealing the ruling, according to the
newspaper.  The court, in a ruling by Justice Lindsay Foster, said the
service sent out as radio waves and through the Internet is
essentially the same, differing only in delivery methods,
according to the Herald.  An earlier decision related to sports video streaming also
said that no additional payment was required, the Herald
reported.  Fraserside, Maker of Adult Films, Wins $4 Million Judgment  Fraserside IP LLP, the holder of IP rights for a more than
1,000 adult films, was awarded a $4 million default judgment in
a copyright-infringement case.  The company, based in Northwood,  Iowa , sued the proprietors
of the pornvisit.com website in federal court in the Northern
District of Iowa in July for copyright infringement. According
to court papers, the website was one of the most visited on the
Internet, and Fraserside’s films were viewed without
authorization as many as hundreds of thousands of times.  PornVisit sold ad space on its website, which, Fraserside
said, was “designed for the sole purpose of taking commercial
advantage of copyrighted works without any authority
whatsoever.” The website operator achieved commercial and
financial advantage “without purchasing or licensing any rights
from the copyright holders nor incurring the significant expense
of creating and generating the content itself,” Fraserside said
in its pleadings.  The website sold memberships for $3.95 for two days of
access or $29.95 a month or six months for $99.95, according to
court papers. Those who paid PornVisit a premium membership
could download content.  The defendants in the case are Mark and Mina Faragalla of
Beaumont, California, who operate PornVisit. Their site
generated at least $720,000 a year in ad revenue alone, Judge
Mark. W. Bennett said in a Feb. 13 order, noting that the site
is now shut down.  Bennett said Fraserside demonstrated that PornVisit
infringed both copyrights and trademarks and was entitled to
damages. In a default judgment, he awarded the company $4
million in damages and attorney fees. Additionally, he entered a
permanent order barring the Faragallas of further infringement
of the Fraserside intellectual property.  The Faragallas didn’t appear in court, and didn’t respond
to any court filings.  Fraserside was represented by Chad Lorin Belville of
Phoenix,  Arizona .  The case is Fraserside IP LLC v. Mark Faragalla, 3:11-cv-
03034-MWB, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Iowa.  For copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  UConn’s Donor List Is Protectable Trade Secret, High Court Says  Connecticut ’s  Supreme Court  has said the University of
Connecticut can refuse to identify its donors, the Hartford
Courant  reported .  The university had argued that its donors’ identities were
a trade secret that, if revealed, could lead to other schools’
luring them away, according to the newspaper.  The  high court  affirmed a lower court ruling, saying easy
access to the donors’ identity could harm the school’s ability
to raise money, the Courant reported.  The information has been sought by a former member of the
state legislature, according to the newspaper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 