-- Hong Kong Rent Doesn’t Faze Retailers
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-02-16T02:15:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/high-h-k-retail-rent-doesn-t-faze-forever-21.html
Retailers from Forever 21 Inc. to
 Gap Inc. (GPS)  have rushed to Hong Kong to reach the 28 million
Chinese tourists passing through last year. To do so, they are
paying some of the world's highest rents.   Hong Kong retail rents, which rose 32 percent in prime
locations last year according to Savills Plc estimates, may
climb more even as global economies and property markets slow.
That may make marketing to Chinese teenagers in Hong Kong’s
 Causeway Bay  as expensive -- or even more -- than a storefront
in New York’s Times Square.  Forever 21, which opened its first Hong Kong store in
January, said it is paying $1.4 million a month -- its highest
rent in the world, both in total terms and per square foot. It
pays less in  New York ’s Times Square.  “Hong Kong is the gateway to  China ; we feel it is
important to establish our brand within China,” said Larry
Meyer, executive vice president of closely held, U.S.-based
Forever 21.  Rents of $1,943 per square foot in Hong Kong’s Causeway Bay
make it the second most expensive shopping street in the world
in 2011, behind Fifth Avenue’s $2,250 and topping  Tokyo ’s Ginza,
 London ’s Bond Street and the  Champs Elysees  in Paris, according
to  Cushman & Wakefield , a New York-based real estate services
firm.  The most tenacious retailers, such as San Francisco-based
Gap,  Abercrombie & Fitch Co . and Forever 21, are willing to pay
for face time with Chinese tourists. Others, like  Esprit
Holdings Ltd. (330) , which is trying to revive global profits, have
been forced to shut some Hong Kong stores.  First Gap Store  There are often long lines of Chinese tourists outside
 Louis Vuitton , Burberry and Gucci stores on Tsim Sha Tsui’s
Canton Road in the Kowloon peninsula.  Jeans and T-shirt maker Gap in November opened its first
Hong Kong store in the Central financial district.  Louise
Callagy , a spokeswoman for the company, wouldn’t comment on the
rent.  The store is a “good investment,” Jeff Kirwan, Gap’s
managing director for Greater China, said in an interview in
 Shanghai .  “We put aside a budget, and when we think about the
returns we need, we’re exceeding that,” he said. “Hong Kong is
expensive, and so is  Manhattan , and so is Shanghai.”  Burberry (BRBY)  Group Plc, the U.K.’s largest luxury-goods maker,
is planning to pay HK$6.5 million ($840,000), or 250 percent
more than the last tenant, for a 5,200-square-foot space in
Causeway Bay,  Hong Kong Economic Times  reported. George Prassas,
London-based spokesman of Burberry, declined to comment on the
report.  Scarce Land   Hong Kong retail sales grew 25 percent in 2011 from a year
earlier, driven by mainland Chinese travelers snapping up luxury
and retail goods, according to government data.  “The rent in Hong Kong leads that of London or New York,”
said Nick Bradstreet, head of leasing at Savills, a property
agency. “The higher the sales, the higher the rent.”  He expects overall retail rents on prime  Hong Kong  streets
to rise 15 percent in 2012 after 32 percent growth in 2011.  Urban land is scarce in densely populated Hong Kong, which
has a population of 7 million and where less than 25 percent of
the land is developed.  The high rent is pushing out some local and global
retailers. Well-known brand Shanghai Tang, which is owned by
Cie. Financiere Richemont SA and sells Chinese-style outfits, in
October left the Hong Kong premise that housed its flagship
store for 17 years after the monthly rent “went totally out of
control” from the HK$3 million it had been paying.  The company will move in March to a 20,000 square-foot,
four-story building -- to be called Shanghai Tang Mansion --
about 320 meters (1,050 feet) from its old store, Raphael le
Masne de Chermont, the brand’s executive chairman, said in an
interview with Bloomberg News in October.  The old space of Shanghai Tang, founded by Hong Kong
businessman David Tang, was picked up by  New Albany , Ohio-based
Abercrombie & Fitch.  PR Approach  “Brands like Abercrombie consider it essential to be
visible in Hong Kong because of the awareness and the traffic of
mainlanders,” said Erwan Rambourg, head of consumer & retail
research at HSBC. “It’s important for them to make a statement.
Profitability is not the main target. It’s essentially a PR
advertising approach rather than a profitability approach.”  Foreign retailers, such as Forever 21, said they are in
Hong Kong for the long haul.  “We paid up,” Forever 21’s Meyer said in a Bloomberg
Television interview. “We are optimistic that we will get good
sales, profitable sales on the store.”  They face some challenges. Hong Kong retail growth is
likely to slow to 15 percent this year from 25 percent in 2011,
according to Caroline Mak, chairwoman of the Hong Kong Retail
Management Association.  This year “is going to be a crucial moment to test the
foreign retailers’ stamina and their commitment in China
markets,” said Eddie Lau, head of regional consumer research at
Citigroup Inc. “Unless they are very bullish on long-term
growth and are prepared to invest heavily, we might see them
pulling out. Sales growth is likely to slow while operating
expenses remain incredibly high in the near term.”  Shutting Esprit  Esprit, the clothing retailer that saw global profits
plunge 98 percent in last fiscal year, is set to shut three of
its Hong Kong’s stores in the city’s most sought-after shopping
spaces this year. Esprit doesn’t want to pay “crazy prices” in
rent to renew the contracts, said Patrick Lau, a company
spokesman. The company is still committed to Hong Kong and
China, he said.  Inditex SA (ITX) ’s Zara may rent a Hong Kong store being vacated
by Esprit for HK$3.5 million a month, Hong Kong publication
Apple Daily reported in February. Esprit currently pays a
monthly rental of HK$1.62 million, the Chinese-language
newspaper said, without saying where it got the information
from. Zara didn’t comment.  “We forecast another strong year for retail rental market
in Hong Kong mainly due to excessive demand,” said Richard
Kirke, managing director of real estate company Colliers in Hong
Kong. “Given its size, Hong Kong always faces a supply
constraint.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  