-- Lin’s All-Star Presence Possible With Shumpert Competing in Dunk Contest
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-02-16T19:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/lin-s-all-star-presence-possible-with-shumpert-competing-in-dunk-contest.html
Jeremy Lin’s route from benchwarmer
to All-Star weekend performer became clearer today with help
from New York Knicks teammate Iman Shumpert.  After being chosen to compete in the  National Basketball
Association ’s slam-dunk contest during All-Star weekend in
Orlando,  Florida , next week, Shumpert hinted that the
inspiration for what the Knicks market as “Linsanity” may be
coming along.  “I might bring somebody special out,” Shumpert, a rookie
guard,  said  today on the Knicks’  website .  Lin will be enlisted to help Shumpert in the same way  Blake Griffin  of the  Los Angeles Clippers  took a pass out of a car
sunroof from then-teammate Baron Davis in winning last year’s
slam-dunk contest,  ESPN said , citing unidentified people with
knowledge of the situation.  Lin, an undrafted player out of college, will be able to
assist Shumpert because he’ll be at the All-Star festivities to
take part in the shooting skills competition, the New York Daily
News  said .  Lin, the former Harvard University guard who was cut by two
other NBA teams, has become an international sensation in the
past two weeks as he’s entered the Knicks’ starting lineup and
led a seven-game Knicks winning streak.  This year’s slam-dunk contest is scheduled for Feb. 25, the
night before the NBA’s All-Star Game. Shumpert will be joined by
Chase Budinger of the  Houston Rockets , Paul George of the
 Indiana Pacers  and another rookie, Derrick Williams of the
 Minnesota Timberwolves .  The winner will be chosen solely by fan balloting, with
each competitor executing three dunks. Fans will be able to cast
votes via Twitter and voting will open after all four players
have completed their first dunk. Previously, the slam-dunk
contest was two rounds, with the first round scored by a panel
of judges to determine the two finalists.  Former Knicks guard Nate Robinson won the contest in 2006,
2009 and 2010.  Lin has averaged 24.4 points during New York’s winning
streak while making 51 percent of his shots.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  