-- Rupiah Drops a Third Day on Greek Bailout Delay; Bonds Decline
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2012-02-16T09:14:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/indonesia-rupiah-rebounds-on-speculation-central-bank-intervened.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah weakened for a
third day after European leaders postponed a decision on a
bailout for  Greece , deterring investors from buying emerging-
market assets. Ten-year  government bonds  dropped.  Losses in the rupiah were limited on speculation the
central bank intervened in the  currency market  to curb
volatility. European officials are debating the details of a
rescue package for Greece as a March 20 deadline for repaying
14.5 billion euros ($18.9 billion) in debt looms, opening the
prospect of a possible default.  “The external factors are very important in seeing how
funds reallocate in  Asia ,” said Leong Sook Mei, the Singapore-
based regional head of global currency research at Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ. “For the next three months or so, we’re
still bearish on Asian currencies.”  The rupiah fell 0.2 percent to 9,050 per dollar as of 4:03
p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks compiled
by Bloomberg. It dropped as much as 0.7 percent earlier.  Overseas investors sold $43 million more local stocks than
they bought yesterday, taking net sales to $197 million so far
this month, exchange data show.  The central bank has been intervening in the currency and
bond markets to curb volatility, Governor Darmin Nasution said
at a seminar in Jakarta on Feb. 10.  “ Bank Indonesia  might step in if the rupiah weakens past
the 9,000 level,” said Wiling Bolung, head of treasury at ANZ
Panin Bank in Jakarta.  The yield on the 7 percent bonds due May 2022 rose seven
basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 5.22 percent,
according to prices from the Inter Dealer Market Association.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Yudith Ho in Singapore at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  