-- Lira Rally Unmatched by Default Swaps After Rout: Turkey Credit
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2012-02-17T09:43:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/lira-confidence-unmatched-by-default-swaps-after-2011-rout-turkey-credit.html
Turkish central bank Governor Erdem Basci is failing to win the confidence of foreign investors
following a rout in credit markets last year even as his
interest rate cuts restore faith the economy will keep growing.  The cost to protect Turkish debt against non-payment using
credit-default swaps fell 22 basis points to 270 this year, less
than half the decline for  Russia  and  Poland  and trailing all
major  emerging markets , data compiled by Bloomberg show. At the
same time, lira-denominated bonds have rallied the most among
the largest 19 emerging markets worldwide, with yields falling
212 basis points to 9.36 percent, Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc indexes show. The lira rose 7.3 percent this year.  Basci, 45, sparked a tumble in bonds and the currency last
year with a dual interest rate policy that allowed him to lend
at rates as high as 12.5 percent, stoking concern the second-
fastest growing major economy was heading for a recession. While
he resumed lending at the lower 5.75 percent rate last month,
the nation’s record current-account deficit at more than 10
percent of gross domestic product makes it the most vulnerable
economy in the region, according to  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   “What you’re seeing in credit-default swaps is that
there’s still a negative bias on  Turkey ,” Navin Agarwal, an
emerging-markets credit trader at  Barclays Capital  in London,
said in a Feb. 15 interview. “Most investors are still
underweight Turkey, which means they’re still waiting for the
numbers to show an improvement in the current-account deficit.”  Lira Tumble  The lira plunged 18 percent against the dollar last year,
the biggest tumble in the world, and credit-default swaps more
than doubled to 291 basis points. Yields on government two-year
bonds surged 333 basis points from Sept. 5 to 11.01 percent by
Dec. 28.  The correlation between the currency and default swaps has
fallen to 0.71 since Basci introduced the dual rate policy on
Oct. 26 from 0.97 in the year until then, according to
regression analysis using data compiled by Bloomberg and data
provider CMA. A reading of 1 would show the two markets moving
in unison.  Turkish default swaps rose four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, yesterday to 270, compared with 223 for Russia
and 225 for Poland, according to CMA, which is owned by  CME
Group Inc. (CME)  and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately-negotiated market. Turkey’s credit ratings are four
levels below Russia and six levels below Poland, at Ba2 from
Moody’s Investors Service.  ‘Macro Wobble’  The cost of the contracts may increase to as much as 350
basis points in the next six months should Turkey experience a
“macro wobble,” Barclays’ Agarwal said. They’re likely to
trade between 270 and 290 in the absence of any crisis, he said.
The swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or cash equivalent if the issuer fails to
comply with debt agreements.  The lira was little changed yesterday at 1.7617 per dollar.
The currency’s rally this year, the second-biggest advance among
currencies in the  Europe ,  Middle East  and  Africa  after the
forint, came after the central bank sold $16 billion of its
foreign-currency reserves between August and January, according
to central bank data compiled by Bloomberg. This year will be
“a year in which the Turkish lira is one of the currencies that
strengthens the most,” Basci said Jan. 6.  “It’s been an interesting divergence, the lira has been
supported by the central bank’s very strong verbal
interventions,”  Manik Narain , head of emerging-market currency
strategy at UBS AG in London, said in e-mailed comments
yesterday. “Underlying issues around the speed of current-
account rebalancing and the commitment to inflation targeting
are still lingering.”  Yields Climb  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Turkey’s dollar-
denominated bonds rather than U.S. Treasuries declined two basis
points yesterday to 356, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
EMBI Global index.  Yields (TRABNBM)  on benchmark two-year lira bonds rose
one basis point to 9.36 percent and are down from 11.48 percent
at the end of last year. Yields on Turkey’s dollar-denominated
bonds due in September 2022 fell to 5.581 percent from 5.586
percent the day before and 5.728 percent on Feb. 1.  Basci has sought to slow the economy without causing a
recession by reducing banks’ liquidity after record-low  interest
rates  last year contributed to loan growth approaching 40
percent, fueling import purchases and widening the trade
deficit.  Highest Deficit  Investors grew concerned as Turkey’s 9.6 percent economic
growth in the first nine months, the fastest pace among major
economies after  China , caused the current-account deficit to
reach $77 billion, the  highest  in the 34-nation Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development after the U.S. and  Italy .  The pace of consumer price increases, which climbed to a
three-year high of 10.6 percent in January, will fall to 6.87
percent within 12 months, according to a central bank survey of
economists and business people published Feb. 8. The prediction
was 6.91 percent two weeks earlier.  Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, 57, is forecasting
Turkey’s economy, the eighth biggest in Europe at $735 billion
and about half the size of Russia’s, will grow at least 4
percent this year. GDP may expand 3.4 percent, according to a
central bank survey published on Feb. 8. The economy has grown
an average of 5.9 percent each year since 2002.  Risk Premium  “Despite the rise in CDS, we see foreign investor flow
especially into money markets,” Tufan Comert, strategist at
Garanti Securities in Istanbul, said by e-mail. “This suggests
that foreign investors are really interested in lira assets, but
they just don’t trust that all is going to go well. That’s why
they are hedging themselves against the risks.”  The risk premium stems primarily from  Greece ’s debt crisis
and uncertainty about Europe and how any fallout could affect
Turkey, rather than uniquely Turkish problems related to the
economy or central bank policy, Comert said. “If the Greek
problem is solved somewhat for the short-term, we expect to see
a fall in CDS in line with an appreciation in the lira,” he
said.  New York-based Bank of America Merrill Lynch and London-
based HSBC Holdings Plc say Basci probably won’t succeed in
striking the right balance between moderating growth and
controlling inflation, predicting a possible recession in the
first half of the year. Goldman Sachs abandoned forecasts for a
recession this year on Feb. 10, predicting 2012 economic growth
of 2.5 percent. Frankfurt-based Commerzbank AG anticipates a 5
percent expansion.  Index Climbs  Speculation the economy will keep growing helped  Turkey’s
benchmark stock index  climb 17 percent this year, the fourth
best-performing national measure after Egypt, Russia and  India ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Turkey’s central bank is unable to influence credit-default
swaps in the way it can the lira and bonds,  Benoit Anne , London-
based head of emerging-markets strategy at Societe Generale SA
in  London , said in a phone interview on Feb. 15.  “The local  bond market  has been able to take advantage of
aggressive liquidity management policy by the central bank,”
Anne said. “That driver doesn’t play much role at all when it
comes to the sovereign debt market, which is driven by sovereign
risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  