-- Iran Envoy Says IAEA Must Disprove Aiding Scientist Murders
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-02-16T09:16:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/iran-envoy-says-iaea-must-disprove-aiding-scientist-murders-1-.html
The United Nations atomic watchdog
must show that it didn’t facilitate the assassinations of
several nuclear scientists in  Iran , the country’s ambassador to
 Russia  said.  Iran suspects that inspectors of the Vienna-based
 International Atomic Energy Agency  may be gathering military
intelligence in the Persian Gulf state, Mahmoud-Reza Sajjadi
told reporters in Moscow today.  “The  IAEA  must prove that terrorists haven’t used it to
assassinate nuclear scientists,” Sajjadi said. “We don’t know
whether the IAEA is engaged in nuclear protocols or is carrying
out espionage of our military facilities.”  Iran has accused  Israel  of orchestrating the deaths of
several Iranian nuclear scientists, the most recent in a Jan. 11
car bombing in Tehran. Thai police yesterday said they arrested
two Iranians after attempted bomb attacks on Israeli diplomats
with similar devices to those used in bombs targeting Israelis
in  India  and Georgia this week.  Iran has denied involvement in the attacks. “We don’t
respond to terror with terror, we respond with political
means,” Sajjadi said.  The UN has imposed four sets of sanctions on Iran, and the
nuclear watchdog said in November the country had studied making
an atomic bomb. The government in Tehran says its nuclear
program is for civilian purposes and that documents held by the
IAEA purporting to show designs and tests of weapon components
are fakes.  Iran loaded locally built fuel plates into its nuclear
research reactor in Tehran, state-run Press TV reported
yesterday, showing images of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad
inside the facility.  Only a handful of countries, including  France  and the U.S.,
have the technology to build the 20-percent enriched fuel plates
needed for the reactor, according to Iranian officials.
Ahmadinejad described the step as a “major” nuclear feat.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  