-- Iran Unlikely to Strike First, U.S. Official Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-02-16T18:33:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/iran-unlikely-to-strike-first-in-conflict-u-s-intelligence-official-says.html
The Iranian military is unlikely to
intentionally provoke a conflict with the West, the top U.S.
military intelligence official said today.  Lieutenant General Ronald Burgess, director of the  Defense
Intelligence Agency , said Iran probably has the ability to
“temporarily close the  Strait of Hormuz  with its naval
forces,” as some Iranian officials have threatened to do if
attacked or in response to sanctions on its  oil exports  by the
U.S. and European Union.  “Iran has also threatened to launch missiles against the
 United States  and our allies in the region in response to an
attack,” Burgess said in testimony at a hearing today of the
Senate Armed Services Committee. “It could also employ its
terrorist surrogates worldwide. However, it is unlikely to
initiate or intentionally provoke a conflict or launch a
preemptive attack.”  Iran has the capability to strike regional and European
targets with its ballistic missiles and is seeking to improve
their accuracy, Burgess said in the latest U.S. public
assessment of Iran’s military prowess. Iran’s regional military
capability continues to improve, with new ships and submarines
and expanded bases in the  Gulf of Oman ,  Persian Gulf  and  Caspian
Sea , he said.  No Israeli Decision  U.S. interests are threatened by Iran through its support
of terrorist and militant groups, as shown in “the recent plot
to assassinate the Saudi ambassador to the United States,”
Burgess said. Burgess said Israel hasn’t made a decision to
attack Iran’s nuclear facilities.  Iran’s Vice President Mohammad Reza Rahimi said on Dec. 27
that his nation may close the Strait of Hormuz, the passageway
for about one-fifth of globally traded oil, if the U.S. and its
allies impose stricter economic sanctions in an effort to halt
his country’s nuclear research. U.S. officials such as Pentagon
spokesman  George Little  have said since that threat that they
haven’t seen any Iranian moves to close the waterway.  Burgess testified about the annual assessment of global
threats by U.S. civilian and military intelligence agencies.
Turning to the war in  Afghanistan , Burgess told the committee
that the country’s national army and police face continued
challenges in developing “into an independent, self-sustaining
security apparatus.”  ‘Pervasive’ Afghan Corruption  The Afghan army and police exceeded their 2011 growth
benchmarks, and the army has shown “marked improvements” in
some operations when partnered with with U.S. and NATO forces,
Burgess said.  Still, the Afghan National Army must depend on U.S.-led
forces “for many critical combat-enabling functions,” while
the Afghan National Police “suffers from pervasive corruption
and popular perceptions that it is unable to extend security in
many areas,” Burgess said.  The Army’s reliance on the coalition forces “underscores
its inability to operate independently,” Burgess said.
“Nevertheless, Afghanistan’s population generally favors the
army over the police.”  Senator  Carl Levin , the Michigan Democrat who heads the
committee, said success in giving Afghan forces the lead role in
more operations will depend on their readiness, the insurgency’s
strength and the progress of reconciliation talks with the
Taliban.  Iran ‘Underground’ Effort  While  Iran  has said its nuclear program is for civilian
purposes, U.S and other Western governments have said Iran is
developing a capacity to produce nuclear weapons.  Burgess said Iran is among several nations, including
Russia, China and  Pakistan , to protect “critical military and
civilian assets” with “active underground programs.” He said
his agency assessed that Iran was “not close” to abandoning
its nuclear program.  Director of National Intelligences  James Clapper , who
testified alongside Burgess, said it was “technically feasible
but probably not likely” that Iran could produce a nuclear
device within a year of making a political decision to proceed.  Iranian state-run Press TV said yesterday that 3,000 “new-
generation” Iranian-made centrifuges were installed at the main
uranium enrichment site at Natanz, and domestically made fuel
plates were loaded at a medical research reactor in Tehran.  ‘Not Terribly Impressive’  “Our view on this is that it’s not terribly new and it’s
not terribly impressive,” U.S. State Department spokeswoman
 Victoria Nuland  told reporters in Washington yesterday. The
announcement was “hyped” for a domestic audience, she said.  Iran’s known nuclear activities are monitored by the
 International Atomic Energy Agency , and there are no reports of
enriched uranium being diverted from those facilities for
weapons use.  Tensions between Iran and  Israel  have escalated this week.
Iranians arrested after blasts on a Bangkok street aimed to
attack Israeli diplomats and the devices used were similar to
bombs targeting Israelis in  India  and  Georgia  this week,
 Thailand ’s police chief, Priewphan Damaphong, said yesterday.
Israel has blamed Iran for the attacks, and Iran has denied
involvement.  Iranian Attack Recovery  Asked about how long it would take Iran to recover from an
attack on its nuclear facilities, Clapper said he couldn’t
corroborate the U.S. military’s view that a strike would deal a
setback of one to two years at most.  “I don’t disagree with it, but I think there’s a lot of
factors that could play here,” Clapper said.  The uncertainties include “how effective the attack was,
what the targets were, what rate of recovery might be,” Clapper
said. “There are a lot of imponderables that could affect a
guestimate -- and that’s all it is.”  Clapper said he had doubts Iran eventually will make the
political decision to move forward with assembling a nuclear
device.  “They have put themselves in a position, but there are
certain things they have not yet done and have not done for some
time,” Clapper said. He declined to say in public testimony
what steps Iran hasn’t taken that would be leading indicators of
a decision to build a bomb.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  