-- MIT’s First Woman President Susan Hockfield to Step Down
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2012-02-16T22:29:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/mit-s-first-woman-president-to-step-down.html
Susan Hockfield, the first woman
president of the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology , will
step down from the post as the college plans for a new
fundraising campaign.  Hockfield, 60, who has led the school since December 2004,
will stay on until a successor is in place, Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based MIT said today.  Under Hockfield, the school raised almost $3 billion,
according to a  statement  on MIT’s website. The president will
need to focus full attention on the next fundraising campaign
that might last as long as nine years, Hockfield said in a
telephone interview.  “I needed to consider when would be the best time for a
transition,” Hockfield said. “MIT has enormous momentum right
now and it just seems to me that the best time to transition is
a moment of strength.”  Hockfield, MIT’s 16th president, came to the school after
serving as provost at  Yale University  in  New Haven ,  Connecticut .
At her inaugural address, she announced her intention to
establish the  MIT Energy Initiative  that’s since developed new
solar cells,  wind turbines  and fuel-producing viruses.  Startup Created  MIT research led to the startup of  A123 Systems Inc. (AONE) , a
Waltham, Massachusetts-based company developing and making new
batteries. Hockfield sits on the board of  General Electric Co. (GE) ,
which owns  5.3 percent  of the battery maker, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  She also pointed to the work her administration has done to
merge life sciences with the physical sciences and engineering
in centers such as the Ragon Institute and the Koch Institute
for Integrative Cancer Research.  A graduate of the  University of Rochester , she began her
career as a neuroscience researcher, working underJames D. Watson, co-discoverer of the structure of DNA, at Cold Spring
Harbor Laboratory in Cold Spring Harbor, New York. In 1985, she
moved to Yale, where she became dean of the Graduate School of
Arts and Sciences before serving as provost.  Hockfield is among a small number of women to lead elite
research universities, including Drew Faust at  Harvard
University , Shirley Tilghman at Princeton University, Ruth Simmons at Brown University and Amy Gutmann at the  University of
Pennsylvania , all members of the Ivy League in the northeastern
U.S. Simmons announced last year she would step down this year.  Merit-Based Advancement  Hockfield said she was fortunate to have grown up in an era
when the budding space program inspired young women and men
alike to pursue careers in science, and when women from previous
generations had paved a path toward senior positions in
education.  “I see every possibility that the U.S. will continue in
this direction of global leadership in opening opportunities for
everyone based on merit, and not based on background,” she said.  Hockfield said she’ll remain on the MIT faculty. A
committee to search for the next president will be appointed and
include input from faculty, students and the school’s board of
trustees, known as the  MIT Corporation , the university said in
the statement.  MIT’s endowment was valued at $9.71 billion in June 2011,
according to the school. It is the  sixth largest  in higher
education, based on an annual survey of endowments by the
National Association of College and University Business Officers
and Commonfund Institute.  MIT raised $534.3 million in fiscal 2011, fourth among U.S.
colleges and universities behind  Stanford University  near Palo
Alto,  California ; Harvard; and Yale, according to data released
Feb. 15 from the nonprofit  Council for Aid to Education’s  annual
survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janet Lorin in  New York  
 jlorin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  