-- Italian Guards Abord Oil Tanker Mistakenly Kill Two Indian Fishermen
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-02-16T14:17:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/italian-crude-oil-tanker-s-guards-mistakenly-kill-two-indian-fishermen.html
Armed guards aboard an Italian crude
oil tanker killed two fishermen they mistakenly suspected of
being pirates in waters off the south Indian state of Kerala.  The tanker M.V. Enrica Lexie, en route to  Egypt  from
 Singapore , was escorted to the nearby port of Kochi by the
Indian Coast Guard, which is questioning the crew, according to
an e-mailed statement from the country’s Directorate General of
Shipping.  Italy’s Ambassador Giacomo Sanfelice di Monteforte told
reporters in  New Delhi  today that the crew of the ship acted in
self-defense after the fishing vessel failed to stop. The
tanker’s crew “followed international protocol as it was
approached by a vessel, which did not stop,” he said in
televised comments after a meeting at  India ’s  Ministry of
External Affairs  in New Delhi. “They fired warning shots, not
targeting the vessel.”  Maritime piracy costs the global economy an estimated $7
billion to $12 billion annually, according to the United
Nations’ International Maritime Organization. Attacks in the
Gulf of Aden, the  Red Sea  and off the Somali coast increased
fivefold in the past five years to a record 236, the London-
based International Maritime Bureau said.  About 26 percent of the ships that travel through the
Indian Ocean report having armed guards on board, compared with
10 percent a year ago, according to the European naval force
patrolling the region. An estimated 40,000 ships cross the ocean
annually, according to Harrie Harrison, a spokesman for the
group.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Macaskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  