-- Italy Needs to Boost Services for Working Mothers, Fornero Says
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-02-16T14:59:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/italy-needs-to-boost-services-for-working-mothers-fornero-says.html
     Feb. 16 (Bloomberg) -- Italy  needs to boost services to
support working mothers after the European debt crisis led the
government to pass “tough” reforms of the country’s pension
system that will force women to work longer, Labor and Equal
Opportunities Minister Elsa Fornero said today.  Following the pension reform that raised the  retirement
age , the time women “can devote to older people and relatives
has been already reduced,” Fornero told journalists today in
Rome. “We need to adopt a policy of reconciliation: in Nordic
countries being a woman, having kids is not a constraint for
working women. We in Italy are far away from that,” she said.  Italy has the lowest ratio of working women in the European
Union after Malta, at 46 percent. Around one out of every three
women quits her job after the first child, according to the
national statistics agency.  Under the austerity measures approved by Prime Minister
 Mario Monti ’s government in December, women’s retirement age
will be raised until it matches the 66-year limit for men by
2018, with incentives to work until 70. After pushing through 20
billion-euros ($26 billion) of budget cuts and tax increases,
the Italian government is negotiating an overhaul of  labor laws 
with unions and employers.  “If we hadn’t approved the pension reform, we would have
faced a serious  budget crisis  which may have even prevented us
from paying out pensions. There wasn’t an alternative,” Fornero
said today.  Fornero today praised a parliamentary initiative to
encourage fathers to provide more help in the home after the
birth of a child. The measure would make parental leave
mandatory for both the mother and the father.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net 
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.ne 
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.ne  