-- Italy to End Tax Breaks on Church Enterprises, Monti Says
-- B y   [ b n : P R S N = 1 7 3 5 2 6 4 1 ]   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   [ ]
-- 2012-02-16T11:39:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/italy-to-end-tax-breaks-on-church-enterprises-monti-says.html
Prime Minister  Mario Monti  plans an
amendment to an Italian law that will force the Catholic Church
to pay taxes on all its commercial properties, according to a
statement posted late yesterday on the government’s website.  The church currently pays property tax only on buildings
designated as “purely commercial,” based on an Italian law
originating 20 years ago and extended in 2006. The wording is
ambiguous when it comes to clinics that have a chapel or
monasteries that offer bed and breakfast accommodation.  The Catholic Church owns about 100,000 properties in Italy,
a third of which are commercial, according to the Italian
Radical Party, which historically has challenged the church.  Italy would gain an additional 100 million euros ($130
million) from increasing levies on the church to include all its
commercial property, Paolo Berdini, an urban planner and
consultant for local administrations, said in an interview last
month.  The Vatican reported a profit of 9.8 million euros ($12.7
million) in 2010 after three years of losses during the
recession.  EU Probe  Following a complaint by the Radical Party, European Union
regulators opened a probe in 2010 into Italian tax breaks on
real estate granted to the Catholic Church, saying they may
distort competition.  The outcome of the investigation will be made public by
next month and if the decision goes against  Italy , the EU could
order the country to pay a fine and to demand that the church
reimburse the government for unpaid taxes of the last five
years, the secretary of the Radical Party,  Mario Staderini , said
in an interview in  Rome  on Dec. 21.  Monti has informed European Union Competition Commissioner
 Joaquin Almunia  of his decision to overhaul the rule and hopes
“the government’s initiative will allow the European Commission
to close the procedure,” according to the statement.  Monti served as the EU’s competition commissioner from 1999
to 2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  