-- J&J’s Risperdal Wasn’t Factor in Man’s Diabetes, Jury Rules
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-02-16T18:24:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/j-j-s-risperdal-not-substantial-factor-in-diabetes-new-jersey-jury-says.html
Johnson & Johnson ’s anti-psychotic
drug Risperdal wasn’t a substantial factor in causing a Nebraska
man’s diabetes, even though J&J failed to adequately warn his
doctor about the drug’s risks, a  New Jersey  jury ruled.  Jurors in state court in  New Brunswick , where J&J is based,
today found by a 5-1 vote that the company didn’t adequately
warn the doctor for Gary Skala of the risk of diabetes. Because
they ruled 5-1 against Skala, 56, on the causation question,
they didn’t award him any damages.  Skala’s lawsuit was the first of more than 400 personal-
injury lawsuits over Risperdal to go to trial. J&J lawyers said
the company properly warned of the drug’s risks after its
introduction in 1994. They said Skala was an obese “couch
potato” whose disease was caused by his weight, heavy drinking,
sedentary lifestyle and other risks, not Risperdal.  “Doctors used the medicine because it worked,” J&J
attorney Jeffrey Peck told jurors yesterday in his closing
argument. “In this case, Dr. Skala’s doctors prescribed it and
it saved his life.”  Skala, who has chronic major depression, first took
Risperdal in 1996 after attempting suicide by taking an overdose
of anti-anxiety medicine, said Peck. He later drank as many as
10 beers a day, and anxiety, stress, sleep problems and family
history contributed to his diabetes, Peck said. Skala, who is 5-
feet, 8-inches tall, weighed as much as 240 pounds, Peck said.  ‘Contributing Factor’  An attorney for Skala, Fletch Trammell, argued to jurors
that Risperdal was a “substantial contributing factor” in his
diabetes by helping to cause his obesity. While the drug may
have helped his mental illness, Trammell said, J&J’s Janssen
unit failed to warn Skala’s doctor of the diabetes risk.  “We’re not suing them for helping him with depression,
we’re suing them for giving him diabetes,” Trammell said in his
closing arguments yesterday. “Risperdal can be a good drug, but
they still have to warn you about the safety risk.”  Trammell said he was disappointed with the verdict, which
he called a “Pyrrhic victory.”  “It’s just a reflection of the way that people who are
mentally ill live, and it’s a judgment on his lifestyle,”
Trammell said.  Teresa Mueller, a spokeswoman for J&J, the world’s second-
biggest health-products company, said in an e-mail: “We are
pleased with the jury’s decision to reject the plaintiff’s
claims. Since the early 1990s, Risperdal has improved the lives
of countless people throughout the world who suffer from
debilitating mental illnesses.”  Texas Settlement  J&J has faced other legal challenges over Risperdal, which
was once its best-selling drug. On Jan. 19, it ended a trial in
Austin,  Texas , agreeing to pay $158 million to settle claims by
the state attorney general and a whistle-blower that it
fraudulently marketed Risperdal.  J&J has agreed to pay more than $1 billion to the U.S. and
a number of states to end a civil investigation into Risperdal
marketing practices, Bloomberg News reported on Jan. 6, citing
people familiar with the matter. The settlement hasn’t been made
public.  In June, a South Carolina judge ordered J&J to pay $327
million after a jury found the drugmaker liable for damages over
its Risperdal marketing. The drugmaker vowed to appeal that
award.  The company also lost a Risperdal case in  Louisiana  in
October 2010, where on top of a $257.7 million jury award, a
judge ordered the company to pay $73.3 million in attorneys’
fees and costs.  A  Pennsylvania  judge threw out the state’s case against J&J
and Janssen in June 2010. J&J and Janssen also have been sued
over their Risperdal marketing by  Alaska ,  Arkansas , Louisiana,
 Montana ,  New Mexico , Pennsylvania and  Utah . The Arkansas case is
set for trial in March.  The New Jersey case is Skala v.  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , MID-
L-6820-06 (MT), Superior Court of New Jersey, Law Division,
 Middlesex County  (New Brunswick).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  