-- Jaw-Breaking Midwest Carp Flying Home to China’s Dinner Plates
-- B y   B e n   P a y n t e r
-- 2012-02-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/jaw-breaking-midwest-carp-flying-home-to-china-s-dinner-plates.html
The Asian carp is a skittish fish,
averaging about 2 feet long and 10 pounds apiece. When startled
by something, say a boat’s motor, it’s prone to jump as high as
10 feet in the air. So when Blake Ruebush, Levi Solomon and
Chase Holtman, an ecology team with the  Illinois  Natural History
Survey, head out on an early October  carp -hunting mission, they
do so with caution, and armor.  Ruebush’s steering console has been modified with a carp-
proof Plexiglas windshield and a side wall of mesh netting to
guard the throttle and steering wheel from aerial impact. The
team considered wearing helmets but dismissed the idea as too
dorky. Instead, despite the humidity, Ruebush and Solomon wear
waders to repel the slime. Holtman, a burly-looking guy, has
gone the other way, opting for a T-shirt, shorts and Crocs.
“I’ll shower afterward,” he says in the Feb. 20 issue of
Bloomberg Businessweek. “People look at you funny when you reek
of blood and fish.”  As they depart from Havana, Illinois, and up a side channel
of the  Illinois River , the water starts to churn with agitated
fish, and the boat’s hull thumps from underwater collisions.
Then the fish start flying -- dozens of them, rising like a
storm cloud. One ricochets off the boat’s guardrail; another
leaps in from behind, getting tangled in the motor’s steering
cords. The air is so thick with fish that some bash together
midflight, showering everyone with a snot-like splatter.  The fish come in at close to 30 miles per hour. That’s
enough to cause bruises and broken noses -- even concussions
have been recorded -- but Ruebush and his crew seem unworried.
“This is ground zero for Asian carp,” Ruebush says, steering
forward as his buddies stand at the front of the boat. They
won’t have to endure the barrage much longer, though. They’re
about to electrocute all the fish.  Underwater Taser  Solomon and Holtman lower two 10-foot booms attached to a
generator capable of producing 5,000 watts. Ruebush starts the
generator’s engine. It’s like a giant underwater Taser. As
Ruebush motors ahead, fish that swim into the field will be
stunned, then scooped off the surface by Solomon and Holtman
with dip nets and dumped in a tub in the center of the boat,
where they are identified, measured, weighed and counted.  As the generator goes hot, they jump even higher. A fish
hurdles the guardrail, skittering to a stop at Ruebush’s feet.
“Hey! There’s a volunteer. We count those, too,” he adds,
chuckling. Within a minute, the water quiets and unconscious
fish begin rising to the surface.  Harder to Zap  The electrocution, one of four that will occur in the area
today, will last 15 minutes and cover about 200 yards of
shoreline. The History Survey runs thousands of these “fish
community assessment” collections a year -- a mix of shock
fishing and other techniques such as netting -- to track changes
occurring in the river. The group is looking for two different
species of Asian carp. The jumpers surrounding the boat are
Asian silver carp. The Asian bighead swims closer to the bottom
of the river and is harder to zap. Both are filter feeders and
thrive on plankton, a flotsam of algae and other microorganisms.  In the 1970s, fish farmers mostly in southern states began
importing Asian carp from  China (CHIVFISH)  to help clean their commercial
ponds. Some escaped in floods, making their way into the
Missouri River, the  Mississippi River , and the Illinois and Ohio
rivers’ basins. They breed fast, grow fast and eat piggishly.
Females can spawn as many as three times a year, releasing
millions of eggs per drop. Young fish easily eat their weight in
food daily, while adults can consume as much as 20 percent of
their body weight. That yields silver carp as big as 50 pounds
and bigheads up to 100 pounds. After their first few months, the
fish outgrow their natural predators in the river system. And
they pick it clean.  Last Stand in Chicago  Thanks to the interconnectedness of America’s waterways,
Asian carp now infest more than 23 states, mostly in the
Midwest. But they aren’t yet in the  Great Lakes , home to a
$7 billion  fishing industry  and $9 billion boating industry,
according to the Great Lakes Boating Federation. Havana and the
210 river miles north to Chicago represent the last stand in the
battle against the carp.  The Illinois Natural Resources Department estimates that
adult silver carp account for nine out of 10 fish in some places
along the Illinois River. That’s 4,300 fish per river mile. “It
is probably an underestimate,” says Kevin Irons, the state’s
aquatic nuisance species program manager, who adds that it
doesn’t include baby fish or bigheads.  Scaring the Customers  The carp are scaring people away. According to a  University
of Illinois  survey, 47 percent of recreational boaters from
 Havana  and the nearby towns of Pekin and Beardstown were hit by
an Asian carp in 2010 and 2011; one-third of those suffered
watercraft damage. “It’s cut down on our business
considerably,” says Betty DeFord, manager of the Boat Tavern, a
bar made out of an old riverboat on cinder blocks that sits
alongside a boat ramp in the nearby town of Bath. “People who
used to go out on the water won’t anymore because they are sick
and tired of getting beat to death by the damn things.”  Ross Harano, director of international marketing at Big
River Fish, a processor in Pearl, Illinois, estimates there are
more than 100 million pounds of Asian carp in the Illinois River
and more than 500 million pounds in the Mississippi basin, all
of it growing at a rate of at least 10 percent a year.  Fish, of course, must follow water to spread, and local and
national authorities are attempting to find out which rivers
they’re in and how to kill them. In 2009, the U.S.  Army Corps  of
Engineers and David Lodge, director of the Center of Aquatic
Conservation at the University of  Notre Dame , began taking
samples of environmental DNA, or “eDNA,” from the water,
looking for genetic markers in leftover scales, mucus and feces.
In November 2009, samples suggested that carp had made it
upstream, as close as 6 miles from  Lake Michigan .  Shipping Cornerstone  The primary gateway to the lake, the  Chicago  Harbor Lock,
is a system near Navy Pier in downtown Chicago. It handles about
1,800 tons of barge traffic per week and is a cornerstone of the
country’s $380 billion domestic shipping industry, a transit
point for commodities such as coal, steel and petroleum fuels
from as far south as  Louisiana .  A closure would reroute those commodities overland, costing
the region anywhere from an estimated $1.4 billion to
$4.7 billion over the next two decades. It would also plug a
pathway used by as many as 8,000 recreational boaters annually.
The other two access points are the Wilmette Pumping Station, a
passage the city uses to discharge runoff, and the Thomas J.
O’Brien Lock and Dam, near Lake Calumet.  Court Fight  In 2010 the  Supreme Court  denied a request by the  Michigan 
attorney general to close the Chicago lock. Michigan officials
have since pressed the issue with a series of bills now being
heard in Congress. The  Army Corps  of Engineers has also started
its own $25.5 million study to identify all nuisance species in
the region, figure out how they might travel between bodies of
water, and measure the costs and impacts of two types of longer-
term solutions. The first, hydrological separation, would be a
total quarantine with no access via waterways. The second,
ecological separation, would divide habitats less strictly,
possibly using nets, filters, pumps, and lifts to hoist boats
over the locks. The report is due in 2015.  In many cases the fight against an invasive species ends in
such protracted analysis. Asian carp have received more
attention than usual because their presence immediately drives
off business. As Lodge puts it: “When you’ve got a 40-pound
fish jumping into a boat and breaking jaws and knocking out
teeth, people tend to stop boating and fishing. That has a
demonstrable economic effect.”  Carp Czar  In September 2010, President  Barack Obama  tapped John Goss,
a former head of the Indiana Natural Resources Department, to
become the country’s first Asian carp czar, though the term
isn’t official. Goss runs a multistate, 20-agency  task force ,
the Asian Carp Regional Coordinating Committee, which includes
officials from the Army Corps of Engineers, U.S. Fish and
Wildlife Service, and  U.S. Geological Survey , among numerous
partners. Goss has authorized $106 million in projects designed
to reshape the way species are managed and maintained.  On a Wednesday afternoon in late September, Goss stands on
the rear deck of an Illinois Conservation Police boat. He has
arrived to check out part of his new fighting armada, a fleet of
six vessels outfitted with nets, electroshocking units and eDNA
sampling bottles. The boats are puttering around about 10 miles
downstream from Navy Pier in an area called Bubbly Creek, so
named because it used to be a dumping ground for stockyards; air
bubbles from cattle carcasses still burble up when the bottom is
disturbed. That makes for nutrient-rich water, perfect for Asian
carp. Not that Goss expects to find any. “If we do, I’ll be
surprised,” he says, peering into the nets in various boats as
they drift past.  Tracing eDNA  Goss hopes to meld traditional and genetic sampling. An
eDNA hit implies fish, but not how many, so Goss is trying to
match results with fished samples. “When we find DNA, it just
says there’s DNA there,” he says. “Is it from one fish,
multiple fish, or just fish scales brought in by barges from
farther downriver?”  Containment starts 20 miles downstream in Romeoville,
Illinois. There, near a railroad track lined with shanty houses,
sit three electric barrier stations. These are like mega-
electrofishing units, paralyzing fish across the width of a
river. Anything shocked will simply float back downriver. The
river here is also flanked by 13 miles of ultrafine chain-link
fence, meant to keep fish from other rivers from dumping into
the channel above the fail-safe during floods.  Operation Silverstream  When a barrier was taken down for service in December 2009,
state and federal officials started Operation Silverstream, a
450-person effort to poison 6 miles of river with Rotenone, an
industrial fish toxin. The attack used boats and pumps on the
shore to inject Rotenone into the water. Its spread was tracked
with a dye, and caged fish acted like underwater canaries. A
neutralizer was applied downstream. The effort killed thousands
of fish but found only one bighead carp near the barrier. After
numerous eDNA hits around the Little Calumet River just a few
miles from Lake Michigan in May of the following year, officials
mounted Operation Pelican, poisoning a 3-mile stretch of river,
again without finding any Asian carp. When a bighead carp was
netted above the quarantine zone in Lake Calumet in June 2010,
officials tried a less noxious tactic. A large-scale fishing
expedition lasted for days, but its nets came up empty.  Poison at the Ready  Despite such results, the Fish and Wildlife Service has
purchased 2,000 gallons of Rotenone, now housed in an
undisclosed wilderness location. It’s a communal pool that any
state can tap to protect still-virgin waters, but the committee
wants to be prudent about using it again in Illinois. Upstream
from the barrier, dozens of sites are fished and sampled weekly.
Officials on board with Goss carry a playbook adorned with the
Asian Carp Regional Coordinating Committee logo -- a shield-like
crest featuring a carp in a net -- that outlines their rapid
response plan. Three eDNA hits in a row, for instance, or a
reported carp sighting, leads to exploratory fishing. Catching
one Asian carp leads to more intensive fishing. Two or more fish
in hand, and the poison can be released.  Two days later, at a town hall-style committee meeting in
Saginaw, Michigan, Goss introduces the audience to Leon Carl,
director of the U.S. Geological Survey’s Great Lakes Science
Center, who describes new weapons he is working on. The list
includes an underwater “carp cannon” that blasts high-pressure
sound waves to scare off the fish; a carp-specific toxin, or
“carpicide”; and a perfume of pheromones that might lure males
or females into some specific area, where they will find not
love but death. The carp cannon has already been used to clear
out the area around the barriers so they can be powered down for
maintenance. More prototypes should roll out within the next two
years, after which both Carl and Goss say they can be applied
more widely.  The Old-Fashioned Way  Locally, states and towns are doing what they can to kill
the fish by more traditional means, such as catching them and
eating them. Directly below the electric barrier, Illinois
Natural Resources has hired fishermen to pull as many carp as
possible from the water. They netted 62 tons in 2010 and caught
roughly 400 tons in 2011. The department is also promoting a new
sport: aerial bow fishing, in which guys in motorboats with
modified bows shoot and then reel in the jumpers. At the second
annual Director’s Shoot, 54 teams shot more than 48,000 pounds
of fish 120 miles upstream from Havana. At the Boat Tavern,
owner DeFord also hosts the annual Redneck Fishing Tournament.
She describes it as a “carp rodeo” where boaters with nets try
to snag as many fish out of the air as they can in an hour, as
if they were netting 30-pound butterflies. This year about 200
people, some wearing helmets and baseball cups, caught 8,977
carp.  ‘Flying Fish, Great Dish’  Asian carp have been harder to sell to consumers. In
March 2011, the Illinois Public Health Department approved Asian
carp for human consumption. A series of videos posted to the
USGS website titled “Flying Fish, Great Dish” hasn’t really
caught on. Officials promote carp as a cheap, protein-rich food
source that’s lower in mercury content than tuna, but in general
the fish is considered bony and dirty. “A lot of people call
them sewer bass,” says Steve McNitt, the sales manager at
Schafer Fisheries in Thomson, Illinois. Currently, Schafer turns
all the state’s donated catch into an organic fish emulsion
fertilizer, but the company is developing carp hot dogs, carp
burgers and carp jerky.  Illinois has also hired a chef to conduct taste tests. On a
Thursday afternoon in September, Chef Philippe Parola and his
business partner, chef Tim Creehan, shuffle around the stainless
steel kitchen of Christ the King Jesuit College Preparatory High
School on Chicago’s west side, checking on a series of buffet-
size trays that will be dished out to more than 300 kids in a
gymnasium.  Carp Cakes  The menu will be carp cakes -- a fish version of crab cakes
-- with a bearnaise sauce and sides of green beans and sweet
potatoes. They are also working on a bit of rebranding. During
his presentation, Parola calls the fish by a more inventive and
polished name: silverfin. It worked for Patagonian toothfish,
also known as Chilean sea bass.  There’s one place, however, where carp is both in short
supply and welcome on the menu:  China (CHEAFISH) . Since 2010, Illinois has
spent $6 million training fishermen to catch carp and helping
processors develop ways to better store and ship bulk orders to
 China . In the homeland of carp, there are hardly any wild-caught
specimens available: Canal systems are too polluted to support
the species. American processors can buy carp for 13 cents a
pound on the docks and get as much as 92 cents a pound from
mainland importers.  Dancing on the Water  “In China, we tell everybody that this fish is so fresh
and has so much energy that it dances on the water,” says
Harano, the marketer at Big River Fish, which recently received
a $2 million state grant to expand its packing plant to handle
an annual 30-million-pound contract for Beijing. “We market it
a lot like you might Angus beef.” Its logo is a bald eagle
clutching a fish in its talons while flying over the Mississippi
River.  Above the barrier at Romeoville, eDNA testing suggests carp
are getting through, but in small numbers. In 2010, there were
21 hits out of 1,270 samples. In 2011, there were 34 hits out of
2,548 samples. That isn’t enough for a big intervention. That
there are fish still in the region, though, argues against
hydrological separation as a permanent solution; it doesn’t
account for human interference. There is currently a federal ban
on transporting live Asian carp anywhere, as well as state bans
on using carp as bait. That doesn’t mean fishermen, especially
those who are selling live catches at ethnic markets or out
catching their own bait, are following the guidelines.  Rare Sighting  Back near Havana, the History Survey crew completes another
electroshocking and spots a type of species thought to have been
driven off: the human. Dan Belden, a lean, tan, 23-year-old with
a ponytail, paddles up to the boat in his canoe, spooked by the
carp flying around everywhere. Belden has been on the river for
weeks. In September, he loaded his canoe with camping gear and
trail mix and put in hundreds of miles upstream on the Fox River
in  Wisconsin , planning to paddle south until he hit  New Orleans .  He knew there would be danger along the way, but he wasn’t
expecting it to be in the water. Belden got blasted in the head
with a super-sized Asian carp a few days ago. “I never thought
I’d be afraid of a fish, but those things had me scared within a
day,” he tells Ruebush. When he nears a shoreline, he has
learned to tuck his paddle into the boat and drift in gently,
hoping not to launch the bottom-dwellers. Belden looks over at
the stunned fish in the tub. “Do you think there are any lakes
out there where these things can’t live?” he asks. Says
Ruebush: “I wouldn’t bet against them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Paynter through 
 burstadt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bryant Urstadt at 
 burstadt@bloomberg.net  