-- Jinchuan Gains Most in Three Months on Indonesia Speculation
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-16T11:30:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/jinchuan-gains-most-in-three-months-on-indonesia-speculation-1-.html
Jinchuan Group International
Resources Co. (2326)  shares jumped the most in three months on
speculation  Indonesia  may bring forward restrictions on exports
of metal ores including nickel to May, potentially boosting
sales from Chinese suppliers.  Shares gained as much as 30.4 percent to HK$1.76, the most
since Nov. 14, before closing at HK$1.69. The benchmark  Hang
Seng Index  dropped 0.4 percent. The company, a unit of Jinchuan
Group Co., mines and explores for nickel in China.  A call to the switchboard of the company was answered by
someone who declined to be identified or comment. No other
contact numbers are given on the company’s website.  Indonesia will oblige mining companies to process metal
ores locally from 2014, including copper,  iron ore , nickel and
bauxite, according to a ministerial decree on Feb. 10. The
regulation will bar companies with existing operations from
shipping ore overseas, forcing them to build smelting plants, or
sell production to local processors.  “There was speculation today that Indonesia will start to
ban exports of laterite ores from as early as May 7, and
Jinchuan is going to benefit from that if it’s true,” Wang
Haoyang, an analyst at SMM Information & Technology Co., said by
phone from  Shanghai . Nickel laterite ore can be processed into
nickel pig iron as a substitute for the refined metal for use in
stainless steel.  Calls to Thamrin Sihite, director general of coal and
minerals at Indonesia’s Energy and Mineral Resources Ministry
and Dede Suhendra, director of minerals management weren’t
answered.  Disrupted Supplies  “If supplies from Indonesia are disrupted, then Chinese
supplies are going to play a bigger role,” Wang Lixin, an
analyst with researcher Custeel.com, said by phone from Beijing.  China  imported 25.60 million tons of nickel  ores  from
Indonesia last year, or 53 percent of the total arrivals,
according to Bloomberg News calculations based on Chinese
customs data.  “Still, there are lots of uncertainties about when and how
strictly the policy will be implemented,” Wang said. “That
will have a big impact on nickel prices and market balance.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  