-- Drop in Jobless Claims Points to Spending Gains
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2012-02-16T21:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/jobless-claims-in-u-s-fall-to-four-year-low-correct-.html
Americans filed the fewest claims
for jobless benefits since 2008, surprising forecasters and
signaling that an improving labor market will give the world’s
largest economy a boost.  Claims dropped by 13,000 in the week ended Feb. 11 to
348,000, less than the most optimistic  estimate  of 45 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Other reports today showed  consumer
confidence  improved, housing starts climbed and manufacturing in
the Philadelphia area accelerated.  Stocks rose on evidence that the U.S. expansion is gaining
strength in the face of the European crisis and a slowdown in
 China . The decline in claims for jobless benefits coincides with
a pickup in hiring that pushed the unemployment rate down to a
three-year low last month, giving consumers the confidence to
increase spending.  “The economy’s wheels just keep spinning faster and
faster,” said  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank
of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in New York. He also said payrolls
are likely to rise by more than 200,000 for a third straight
month in February.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 1.1 percent to
1,358.05 at the close in  New York . The yield on the benchmark
10-year Treasury note increased to 1.98 percent from 1.93
percent late yesterday.  Builders broke ground on more homes than forecast in
January, helped by warmer weather and adding to signs the
residential real-estate market is stabilizing, data from the
Commerce Department showed today.  Housing Construction  Housing starts rose 1.5 percent to a 699,000  annual rate 
from a 689,000 pace in December that was stronger than
previously reported. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey
called for a rise to 675,000. Building permits, a proxy for
future construction, also climbed.  Manufacturing in the Philadelphia region expanded in
February at the fastest pace in four months as orders and sales
picked up.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general  economic
index  increased to 10.2 from 7.3 last month. Economists forecast
the gauge would rise to 9. Readings greater than zero signal
expansion in the area covering eastern  Pennsylvania , southern
 New Jersey  and  Delaware .  The report follows figures from the central bank yesterday
that showed manufacturers across the country boosted  production 
in January, capping the biggest back-to-back increases in more
than two years.  Feeling Good  “For at least the last three weeks, we’ve felt very good
about the demand,” Thomas Kadien, senior vice president of
consumer packaging at Memphis-based International Paper Co.,
said on a Feb. 2 conference call. “From a North American
perspective, the softness is behind us, and we feel much better
about the first quarter.”  An improving job market is boosting consumer confidence,
adding an impetus to the household spending that makes up 70
percent of the economy.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index rose to minus 39.8 in
the period ended Feb. 12, the highest in a year, from minus 41.7
the previous week. It marked just the third time since April
2008 that the gauge has climbed above minus 40, a reading
consistent with recessions or their aftermath.  Claims for  unemployment insurance  have fallen for three
straight weeks, adding to evidence the labor market is
recovering from the 18-month recession that ended in June 2009.
The jobless rate in January unexpectedly fell to 8.3 percent,
and employers added 243,000 workers to payrolls, the most in
nine months.  No Fluke  “Businesses are realizing that in order to compete they
need to not just keep their  labor force , they need to expand
it,” said  Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics
Inc. in  West Chester , Pennsylvania. “This shows that the strong
job gains we’ve seen in the last few months aren’t a fluke.”  Norfolk Southern Corp. (NSC) , the second-biggest railroad company
in the eastern U.S., is among employers boosting payrolls as
demand grows.  “Employee levels rose 5 percent as we continue to hire
trainees to handle our 2012 forecasted volumes,” James Squires,
chief financial officer of the Norfolk, Virginia, based company,
said on a Feb. 14 conference call.  Estimates for first-time claims ranged from 350,000 to
380,000 in the Bloomberg survey of economists. The Labor
Department revised the prior week’s reading up to 361,000 from
an initially reported 358,000.  The labor market improvement calls into question Fed
forecasts that the jobless rate will end the year at 8.2 percent
to 8.5 percent, Rupkey said.  February Forecast  “The  unemployment rate  is 8.3 percent right now in January
and it could fall to 8.1 percent in the February report,” which
will be released on March 9, he said.  Wholesale prices rose less than forecast in January as food
and energy costs dropped, a sign inflation pressures may remain
subdued, another report from the Labor Department showed today.  The  producer price index  rose 0.1 percent following a 0.1
percent decrease the prior month. Economists projected a 0.4
percent gain, according to the survey median. The  core measure 
excluding volatile food and energy rose 0.4 percent, more than
projected, led by a surge in drug prices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  