-- UBS, JPMorgan, HSBC, Deutsche Bank, Citigroup in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-02-16T13:25:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/jpmorgan-hsbc-deutsche-bank-bofa-citigroup-in-court-news.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank,
sought immunity from prosecution by Canadian regulators probing
a potential conspiracy to rig the price of derivatives globally,
three people with knowledge of the inquiry said.  The lender is the cooperating party referred to by Canada’s
 Competition Bureau  in court papers filed by the regulator with
the Ontario Superior Court in May, said the people, who declined
to be identified because the identity of the firm hasn’t been
made public.  The papers, shown this week to Bloomberg News by court
clerks, indicate a bank told the regulator that traders and cash
brokers conspired to influence the Yen London interbank offered
rate from 2007 to 2010 to profit on interest-rate derivatives
linked to the benchmark. Regulators worldwide are investigating
whether banks attempted to manipulate the London, Tokyo and euro
interbank offered rates, known as Libor, Tibor and Euribor.  UBS has also suspended a number of employees including Yvan
Ducrot, co-head of rates, and Holger Seger, global head of
short-term interest rates trading, as part of an investigation
of its rate submissions, said a person briefed on the matter who
declined to be identified because the decision is private.  The bank has already been given conditional immunity by the
Swiss Competition Commission as part of an investigation into
suspected manipulation of the Yen Libor, Tibor and Swiss franc
Libor rates. The Zurich-based lender was granted similar
immunity by the U.S. Department of Justice last year as part of
its probes of Yen Libor and Euroyen Tibor rates.  Dominik von Arx, a spokesman for UBS in London, declined to
comment on the court case. Alexa Keating, a spokeswoman for the
Competition Bureau, declined to comment on the identity of the
cooperating party.  “There is no conclusion of wrongdoing at this time and no
charges have been laid,” Keating said in an e-mailed statement.  Neither Ducrot nor Seger were reachable through their
office telephone numbers and neither responded to e-mails
through LinkedIn. A profile under Seger’s name says he oversees
70 traders worldwide. The Financial Times reported the
suspensions earlier today. Von Arx declined to comment on the
report.  According to the affidavit filed by the bureau, Canadian
officials were informed that  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co ., Citigroup Inc., Deutsche Bank AG,  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc ,  ICAP Plc (IAP)  and RP Martin Holdings Ltd. took part in the
scheme. Employees at the banks agreed to make artificially high
or low submissions for Yen Libor to improve the outcomes of
trades tied to the rate, the Canadian regulator said, citing
information it received under the immunity program.  The documents also describe similar communications
involving traders at other banks. For instance, Peter O’Leary, a
trader at HSBC, allegedly instructed cash brokers on how to
influence the benchmark rate, the bureau said. It also described
communications involving London-based traders Guillaume Adolph
at Deutsche Bank, Stuart Wiley at JPMorgan and Brent Davies at
RBS, as well as former RBS employee Will Hall and former
JPMorgan employee Paul Glands. The bureau hasn’t brought claims
against any of them.  Wiley and Glands declined to comment. Davies didn’t return
calls to his mobile phone. There was no response to an e-mail
sent to an address found for O’Leary. Contact information for
Adolph and Hall couldn’t be located through directory assistance
and in an Internet search.  Spokesmen for New York-based JPMorgan and Citigroup,
Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank, Edinburgh-based RBS and London-
based ICAP have declined to comment on the affidavit. A
spokeswoman for London-based HSBC didn’t respond to requests for
comment.  Tavistock Communications, which handles media inquiries for
RP Martin, issued a statement saying, “RP Martin has received
requests from certain regulators to provide information on a
voluntary basis to assist them with their preliminary inquiries
but no formal allegations have been made against RP Martin by
any regulator.”  For more, click here.  Goldman Sachs Analyst Inquiry Said to Show U.S. Focus on Taiwan  The investigation of a  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  analyst
shows U.S. officials have intensified their focus on banks and
Taiwan in a multiyear insider-trading probe that has implicated
hedge funds, technology company employees and consultants, a
person familiar with the matter said.  The investigation of Henry King, the Goldman Sachs analyst
covering Taiwan, shows federal authorities are expanding the
insider-trading probe by U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in
Manhattan and the FBI in  New York , said the person, who didn’t
want to be identified because the matter isn’t public.  The probe, called operation “Perfect Hedge,” began five
years ago and has resulted in insider-trading and securities
fraud charges being filed against 64 people, with more than 50
since 2009 either pleading guilty or being convicted at trial.
They included Galleon Group LLC co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam , who
is serving an 11-year prison term.  James Margolin, a spokesman for the Federal Bureau of
Investigation in New York, declined to comment on the case, or
whether King is cooperating. King didn’t answer calls to his
Hong Kong office number yesterday. E-mails to his company
account received an auto reply saying he’s out of the country on
a personal matter.  Michael DuVally, a Goldman Sachs spokesman, declined to
comment on the investigation of King, or whether he remains a
bank employee or is on leave.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for
Bharara, declined to comment.  King, based in Hong Kong, covers Taiwanese companies
including Quanta Computer Inc. and Compal Electronics Inc., the
world’s two largest manufacturers of notebook computers for
clients including  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Dell Inc. (DELL) , according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  King, who joined Goldman Sachs in 2002, was named head of
Taiwan research in 2005. Prior to New York-based Goldman Sachs,
he worked at Credit Suisse First Boston and Indosuez W.I. Carr
Securities Ltd.  Bharara’s office in October indicted Rajat Gupta, a former
Goldman Sachs and  Procter & Gamble Co . director, with leaking
material, nonpublic information to Rajaratnam about the two
companies. Gupta has denied wrongdoing.  Prosecutors said in a Feb. 3 letter to U.S. District Judge
Jed Rakoff, who is presiding over Gupta’s case in Manhattan,
that they had witness statements that there was a second
“insider” at Goldman Sachs who leaked tips to Rajaratnam that
“did not relate to Goldman and/or Procter & Gamble.”  Prosecutors didn’t disclose which stocks the second unnamed
tipper, who Rakoff called “Mr. X,” had allegedly disclosed to
Rajaratnam.  Gupta’s lawyer,  Gary Naftalis , declined to comment about
King, or other Goldman Sachs sources Rajaratnam may have had for
illegal tips. Naftalis has argued in court that he should be
permitted to use such information while defending Gupta at
trial.  For more, click here.  New Suits  Olympus Former Chairman and Six Others Arrested Over Fraud  Three former executives at  Olympus Corp. (7733) , including ex-
chairman Tsuyoshi Kikukawa, and four others were arrested for
suspected violation of Japan’s Financial Instruments and
Exchange Act.  The camera maker is facing shareholder  lawsuits  and may be
subject to further criminal investigation after admitting to a
13-year cover-up. The company restated past securities reports
and took a $1.3 billion reduction in net assets in December.  Olympus’s Tokyo headquarters and its affiliated offices
were raided in December by prosecutors after the company said
Kikukawa and two others colluded to hide investment losses from
the 1990s. The stock has plunged 49 percent since the Oct. 14
dismissal of its first non-Japanese president, Michael Woodford,
who later publicly questioned inflated takeover costs.  Kikukawa, 70, who headed Olympus for 10 years until last
year, Hideo Yamada, 67, who led the investment unit since the
1980s and later became an auditing officer, and former Executive
Vice President Hisashi Mori concealed losses, booked overstated
goodwill and falsified financial statements, the prosecutors
said in a statement.  The prosecutors also arrested Akio Nakagawa, cited in a
December panel report as having aided Olympus in structuring its
loss-hiding schemes. Nobumasa Yokoo, who was also named in the
report, Taku Hada and Hiroshi Ono, were arrested by the Tokyo
Metropolitan Police, according to the statement.  “We take the situation seriously,” Yoshiaki Yamada, a
spokesman for Olympus, said by phone yesterday. “We will
cooperate fully with investigators.”  At a press conference in London this morning, former
president Woodford said, while the arrests were encouraging,
“there are still many important issues which are not covered by
today’s announcement.” He called for further investigation into
the role of banks and accounting firms in the fraud, and said
three directors at the company -- Masataka Suzuki, Kazuhiro
Watanabe and Shinichi Nishigaki -- should be replaced.  Olympus sued 19 current and former executives, including
current President Shuichi Takayama and five corporate auditors,
in January over their roles in concealing losses. The company
formed panels to reform management and nominate a new board.  For more, click here.  UBS Claims Two Ex-Advisers Took Customer Data to Wells Fargo  A UBS AG brokerage unit sued two former financial advisers
in Chicago, claiming they took confidential trade secret
information including customer account data to competitor  Wells
Fargo (WFC)  Advisers LLC.  Named as defendants in the lawsuit filed yesterday by UBS
Financial Services Inc. are David Kinnear and Kathleen Bakas,
who allegedly resigned two days ago to join the Wells Fargo &
Co. unit. One full-time and one part-time UBS employee, all part
of Kinnear’s wealth-management group, went with them, according
to the complaint.  “Led by Kinnear, the team serviced accounts that generated
more than $3.7 million in revenues for UBS over the past 12
months of the defendants’ employment,” UBS alleged.  The New York-based brokerage unit of Zurich-based UBS seeks
a court order blocking the defendants and any Wells Fargo
representative from soliciting any UBS client Kinnear or Bakas
had advised while there, preventing the disclosure of any
proprietary UBS information and directing its return.  UBS also seeks expedited arbitration of its claims through
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Ancel Martinez, a spokesman for San Francisco-based Wells
Fargo, which isn’t a party to the suit, couldn’t immediately
comment on the case. Kinnear and Bakas didn’t immediately
respond to e-mail messages seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The case is UBS Financial Services Inc. v. Kinnear,
12CH05333, Cook County, Illinois, Circuit Court, Chancery
Division (Chicago).  Deutsche Bank Sued Over $512 Million in Mortgage Securities  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s Ace Securities was sued in New York
state court for fraud for allegedly misrepresenting the quality
of $512 million worth of residential mortgage-backed securities
by Phoenix Light SF Ltd.  Phoenix Light, which bought and later sold the securities,
is seeking at least $300 million in damages, according to a
summons filed yesterday. It accuses Ace Securities of making
“material misrepresentations and omissions” regarding
underwriting standards used to issue the mortgage loans that
were pooled together into the offerings, according to court
filings.  Ace Securities knew about problems with the mortgages
underlying the securities because of reports they received from
mortgage-review firm Clayton Holdings, yet still included them
in the offerings that were sold to the plaintiffs, according to
Phoenix Light.  “The securities have performed worse than expected due to
the poorer-quality collateral, and defendants’ wrongdoing has
led directly to plaintiffs’ damages, which include loss of
market value on the securities,” Phoenix Light said in the
filing. “Plaintiffs have lost the entire value of certain of
the securities.”  Duncan King , a New York spokesman for Frankfurt-based
Deutsche Bank, said in a phone interview that the claims had no
merit and the company would fight the suit.  The case is Phoenix Light SF Ltd. v. Ace Securities Corp.,
650422/2012, New York state  Supreme Court  (Manhattan).  Syncora Guarantee Sues EMC Over Mortgage-Backed Securities  Syncora (SYCRF)  Guarantee Inc. sued  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  EMC
Mortgage unit over mortgage-backed securities, alleging fraud
and breach of contract in a lawsuit filed in New York state
court.  The suit was brought in connection with a transaction known
as SACO I Trust 2006-1, which involved the securitization of
residential mortgage loans with an aggregate principal balance
of more than $310 million, Syncora said in the complaint. That
transaction served as collateral for the issuance of about $303
million in securities.  EMC Mortgage was a unit of Bear Stearns Cos. until the
investment bank was bought by JPMorgan in 2008. Bear Stearns and
EMC obtained a financial-guaranty insurance policy from New
York-based bond insurer Syncora “to enhance the marketability
of the securities and their return on the transaction,”
according to the lawsuit.  Bear Stearns made “materially false and misleading
representations to induce Syncora to insure the transaction,”
and didn’t conduct “extensive due diligence” as it had
promised, lawyers for the bond insurer said in the lawsuit.  The transaction had experienced cumulative losses of $96.7
million as of Sept. 30, which has resulted in Syncora making
more than $51.9 million in claim payments, the complaint says.  Jennifer Zuccarelli, a spokeswoman for New York-based
JPMorgan Chase, declined to comment on the lawsuit in an e-mail.  The case is Syncora Guarantee Inc. v. EMC Mortgage LLC,
650420/2012, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan.)  Ex-Aluminium Bahrain Executive Charged by U.K. With Corruption  U.K. prosecutors charged Bruce Allan Hall with corruption
and money laundering tied to his time as an executive at
Aluminium Bahrain B.S.C., a smelting company in Bahrain.  An Australian national, Hall was released on conditional
bail and must appear at a London criminal court next month, the
Serious Fraud Office said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. He
is accused of accepting bribes over an eight-year period while
he worked at the company, known as Alba, the prosecutors said.  Hall was extradited from Australia to London to face the
charges, the SFO said. His co-defendant in the case, British
investor  Victor Dahdaleh , is also scheduled to appear at the
same court hearing, the SFO said.  Dahdaleh was charged Oct. 24 with six counts of making
corrupt payments, two counts of money laundering, and one charge
of conspiracy to corrupt. He is accused of paying bribes to Alba
officials to win contracts for  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S.
aluminum producer.  Efforts to reach Hall or an attorney representing him were
unsuccessful. A call to the SFO wasn’t immediately returned.  Taleo Sued by Shareholder Over $1.9 Billion Oracle Offer  Taleo Corp. (TLEO)  was sued by an investor claiming the human-
resources software company failed to get the best price in its
planned $1.9 billion acquisition by  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)   Hillary Coyne contends Taleo directors are duty-bound to
maximize shareholder value in such a sale, and violated that
duty by agreeing to the $46 per-share buyout, according to a
complaint filed Feb. 14 in Delaware Chancery Court in
Wilmington.  The offer “does not account for Taleo’s expected future
growth,” and “particularly its July 2011 acquisition of
JobPartners, which significantly expanded the company’s presence
in Europe,” Coyne’s lawyers said in court papers.  Oracle, based in Redwood City, California, said Feb. 9 it
would buy Taleo in part to expand so-called cloud computing,
which provides software, storage and other services from remote
data centers.  Caroline Japic, a spokeswoman for Dublin, California-based
Taleo, declined to comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Coyne v. Taleo, CA7245, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  BofA Seeks to Change Venue on $8.5 Billion Mortgage Deal  Bank of America Corp.  and a group of investors that reached
an $8.5 billion mortgage-bond settlement with the bank are
seeking to overturn a ruling that kept the deal before a federal
judge for review.  Bank of America, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, and
the investor group, which includes  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , have said the
settlement over Countrywide Financial Corp. mortgage bonds
should be considered by a state court in New York, where it was
first filed last year for approval.  “This case does not belong in federal court at all,”
Charles Rothfeld, a lawyer for  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) ,
which is seeking approval of the settlement, said at a hearing
yesterday before the U.S. Appeals Court in Manhattan.  The accord would resolve claims from investors about
defective Countrywide mortgages underlying their securities. The
deal has the support of the investors that negotiated it,
including BlackRock and Pacific Investment Management Co.
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and others are opposed or have
demanded more information to evaluate it.  U.S. District Judge William Pauley in Manhattan in October
ruled that the settlement should be considered in federal court
for approval because it “implicates core federal interests in
the integrity of nationally chartered banks and the vitality of
the national securities markets.”  Bank of America, the investor group and Bank of New York,
the trustee for the mortgage securitization trusts, are asking
the appeals court to overturn Pauley’s ruling. Under the federal
Class Action Fairness Act, it should be returned to state court,
they said in court papers.  Entities under the name Walnut Place, which own Countrywide
mortgage bonds, said the case should remain in federal court.
Bank of New York is trying to obtain approval for one of the
largest class-action settlements in history “without providing
adequate protection” for investors, Walnut Place said.  The case is Bank of New York Mellon v. Walnut Place LLC,
11-cv-05988, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Macy’s Says Martha Stewart Living Is Holding It ‘Hostage’  Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia Inc. (MSO)  is “essentially
holding Macy’s hostage” by saying that its pact with the
department-store chain expires in January 2013,  Macy’s Inc. (M)  said
in court papers in their contract dispute.  Macy’s sued in January to stop New York-based Martha
Stewart Living from executing an agreement to sell merchandise
in J.C. Penney Co. stores. Macy’s, based in Cincinnati, said it
has the exclusive right to sell Martha Stewart-branded products
in certain categories.  Martha Stewart Living fired back last week, accusing Macy’s
of breach of contract and saying that the retailer has stocked
and priced Martha Stewart products in a manner that favors
Macy’s own private-label brands. Martha Stewart Living also said
Macy’s couldn’t have exercised a five-year renewal option on the
deal between the two companies because of the breach.  “The uncertainty created by MSLO’s breach has put Macy’s
in an inequitable and untenable position,” Macy’s said in
papers filed Feb. 14 in New York state Supreme Court. “If the
agreement were to actually expire in January 2013, Macy’s would
have to immediately begin seeking to replace and wind down the
Martha Stewart product line at Macy’s.”  Jeanne Meyer, a spokeswoman for Martha Stewart Living, said
the company stands behind earlier statements and what has been
said in court filings.  The case is Macy’s Inc. v. Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia
Inc., 650197/2012, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  JPMorgan, Lehman Trade Data on Bank’s $6 Billion Claim  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ,
after getting a judge’s approval yesterday to settle a $699
million dispute, are trading documents in a fight over a sum
that’s almost 10 times larger, according to a court filing.  The biggest U.S. bank, which lent $70 billion to Lehman’s
brokerage around the time of the 2008 bankruptcy, says it is
still owed $6.3 billion by the defunct firm and its brokerage.
Lehman, which termed the claim “significantly overstated,”
agreed that certain shared documents and information should be
treated confidentially, according to yesterday’s filing in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan.  The fight relates to JPMorgan’s role as a go-between for
the Lehman brokerage’s repurchase agreements with short-term
investors after the parent’s bankruptcy. Lehman said last year
that JPMorgan failed to sell collateral securing the loans in a
“commercially reasonable manner.” JPMorgan said it generated
more than $18 billion of cash from the sale of collateral “in
some of the most difficult markets in modern times,” benefiting
Lehman.  Separately, New York-based JPMorgan is fighting a lawsuit
by Lehman that alleges the lender helped cause its 2008 collapse
by demanding $8.6 billion in collateral. The settlement approved
yesterday, which means that JPMorgan will return $699 million of
the collateral to Lehman, doesn’t affect the bank’s other claims
against the defunct firm, a lawyer for JPMorgan told the judge
yesterday.  JPMorgan sued Lehman back after the $8.6 billion suit,
alleging Lehman defrauded its lender into making the loan. It
has asked the judge to dismiss Lehman’s suit.  Lehman filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history in
2008, listing $613 billion in debt.  The main case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
08-13555, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The lawsuit is Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. v.
JPMorgan Chase Bank NA, 10-03266, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Stanford Helped Support Antiguan Banking Reforms, Witness Says  R.  Allen Stanford  underwrote expenses for a blue-ribbon
panel to “clean up” Antigua’s offshore banking sector in 1999,
a lawyer who served on that commission testified.  “Antigua was getting blasted” for lax regulation and poor
cooperation with international anti-money-laundering efforts,
which threatened island banks’ ability to do business with U.S.
banks, Patrick O’Brien, a former U.S. Customs Service agent,
said yesterday at Stanford’s criminal fraud trial.  “If the Federal Reserve won’t do business with your
country, you’re out of business,” he told the jury. “Allen
Stanford wanted it to be the crown jewel of the Caribbean.”  O’Brien said he and Stanford personally seized the records
of all Antiguan offshore banks over the protests of Althea
Crick, the island’s top regulator. They loaded the records into
Stanford’s truck and put them under guard in a Stanford facility
so the commission could “do its job,” he said.  “Ms. Crick was an obstructionist; we couldn’t get the
records; we couldn’t get things done,” O’Brien testified. “We
were basically stonewalled. The only one who could authorize
access was Ms. Crick and she wouldn’t.”  Jurors previously heard Crick testify that Stanford tried
to take control of Antigua’s banking regulatory agency through a
combination of threats and charm.  Prosecutors have told jurors that Stanford bribed Crick’s
successor, Leroy King, with satchels of cash and Super Bowl
tickets to shield Antigua-based Stanford International Bank Ltd.
from scrutiny by island and international regulators.  Stanford is accused of defrauding investors of more than $7
billion through a Ponzi scheme built on bogus certificates of
deposit at that bank.  O’Brien is the first defense witness in Stanford’s trial,
which is in its fourth week in federal court in Houston. After
he retired from the customs service, O’Brien worked for
 Greenberg Traurig LLP (1153L) , a law firm that represented Stanford’s
businesses. He said he “did a little bit of work” for Stanford
before the financier asked him to join the Antiguan banking
reform commission.  Stanford, 61, denies all wrongdoing. He has been in prison
since being indicted in June 2009 and faces as long as 20 years
in prison if convicted of the most serious charges against him.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09-cv-298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  Ex-News Corp. Phone Hacker Approved for Supreme Court Appeal  The ex- News Corp. (NWSA)  private detective who was jailed in 2007
for intercepting mobile-phone voice mails won permission to
appeal to the U.K. Supreme Court in a dispute over giving
incriminating evidence in civil cases against him.  Glenn Mulcaire , 41, won the court’s approval yesterday in
London, according to his lawyer Sarah Webb. The private eye, who
hacked into phone messages for News Corp.’s News of the World
tabloid, was re-arrested last year as part of a new police probe
involving hundreds of newly identified victims. The appeal
relates to parallel civil lawsuits filed by victims.  “It’s clearly a very important matter of law which the
Supreme Court have decided they should rule on,” Webb, of Payne
Hicks Beach in London, said in a phone interview. A two-day
hearing scheduled to start May 9 could affect how British courts
deal with self-incrimination in lawsuits, she said.  Mulcaire and Clive Goodman, a reporter for the News of the
World, pleaded guilty and were jailed for as long as six months
in 2007 for intercepting phone messages for members of Prince Charles’s staff and five other public figures. Police opened a
new probe a year ago after celebrities’ civil lawsuits revealed
evidence of thousands more potential victims and the involvement
of more News Corp. journalists.  Mulcaire, whose phone-hacking notes were seized by police
in 2006, has been named in many of the claims filed against News
Corp.’s U.K. newspaper unit since the scandal erupted again in
2010. The appeal stems from lawsuits by actor Steve Coogan and
Nicola Phillips, a former employee of celebrity publicist Max
Clifford, whose voice mails were intercepted.  The Court of Appeal on Feb. 1 upheld a ruling that Mulcaire
must disclose who at the tabloid told him to intercept messages
left for Coogan and Phillips, what information was collected and
to whom he gave it. Mulcaire’s lawyers argued that by doing so
he would incriminate himself if he’s charged in the new police
probe. While Coogan has since settled his case, Phillips hasn’t
and the ruling could affect future cases.  In a separate phone-hacking suit filed by the Welsh pop
star Charlotte Church, scheduled for a trial starting Feb. 27,
Mulcaire’s lawyers are seeking to block the press from reporting
on evidence about the private detective’s activities that could
potentially undermine him in a criminal case.  For more, click here and here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Citigroup Mortgage Unit to Pay $158.3 Million in Settlement  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s CitiMortgage unit agreed to pay $158.3
million to settle claims tied to its actions in a federal home-
loan insurance program, the Manhattan U.S. Attorney’s office
said.  The U.S. settled a lawsuit against the Citigroup unit that
alleged more than six years of misconduct in connection with the
Federal Housing Administration Direct Endorsement Program, the
U.S. Attorney’s office said yesterday in a statement. In the
settlement, CitiMortgage admitted to falsely stating that some
loans were eligible for mortgage insurance through the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development, according to the
statement.  “For far too long, lenders treated HUD’s insurance of
their mortgages like they were playing with house money,”
Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in the statement.
“In fact, they were playing with other people’s money and other
people’s homes.”  Five banks including Citigroup settled with 49 states on
Feb. 9 to end a probe into abusive foreclosure practices, with
Citigroup agreeing to pay as much as $2.2 billion.  “We are pleased to resolve this matter in conjunction with
the National Mortgage Settlement reached last week among the
five largest mortgage servicers and the Department of Justice
and state attorneys general,” Mark Rodgers, a spokesman for New
York-based Citigroup, said in an e-mailed statement. “As with
the larger mortgage agreement, we have fully provided for this
settlement as of the fourth quarter of 2011.”  The case is  U.S. ex rel. Hunt v. Citigroup Inc., 11-
cv-005473, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Fortis, Former Executives Held Liable for Damages in Court  Fortis, now known as  Ageas (AGS) , and its former executives Jean-
Paul Votron and Gilbert Mittler misled investors about the
bank’s ability to meet capital requirements for more than a
month in 2008 and are liable for damages, a court ruled.  How much Ageas, Votron and Mittler must pay will be
determined in separate proceedings, the district court in the
Dutch city of Utrecht said in a ruling yesterday. Maurice
Lippens, the former chairman of Fortis, can’t be held personally
liable for misleading investors, according to the ruling.  The verdict is the first court victory for investors who
lost money in the collapse of Fortis, once Belgium’s largest
financial-services company. Fortis’s market value dropped by
8.21 billion euros ($10.8 billion) in the period when the court
said investors were being misled, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It lost an additional 5.39 billion euros on June 26,
2008, when Fortis said it would scrap an interim dividend and
announced a share sale.  “Ageas regrets this judgment and will lodge an appeal
against it with a view to protecting the interests of its
stakeholders,” the insurer, based in Brussels and Utrecht, said
yesterday in a statement.  Fortis will cover any damages its former top executives are
found liable for, according to their 2008 termination
agreements. Ageas is contesting those commitments in a lawsuit
Votron, Mittler and Lippens filed before the Utrecht court,
Greet Poulmans, a spokeswoman for Ageas, said by telephone from
Brussels.  Pentagon Capital Must Pay SEC $76.8 Million for Abusive Trading  Pentagon Capital Management Plc, a closed U.K. hedge fund,
was told by a judge to pay $76.8 million in a lawsuit filed in
2008 by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission over
allegedly abusive mutual fund trading.  U.S. District Judge Robert Sweet in Manhattan ruled Feb. 14
that the SEC proved its claim in a 17-day trial last year that
the hedge fund and its chief executive officer, Lewis Chester,
engaged in a fraudulent scheme by making mutual fund trades
after the 4 p.m. close of markets in New York.  “The defendants intentionally, and egregiously, violated
the federal securities laws through a scheme of late trading,”
Sweet wrote in the Feb. 14 decision. “This scheme was broad-
ranging over the course of several years and in no sense
isolated.”  Sweet ruled that Pentagon Capital and Chester must disgorge
$38.4 million in improper profits on the trades. He imposed the
same amount as an additional civil penalty.  “We are extremely disappointed by the judgment and intend
to appeal,” Frank Razzano, a lawyer for the defendants, said in
a telephone interview.  Sweet ruled against the SEC’s claim that Pentagon Capital
committed fraud by making deceptive, rapid-fire transactions
known as market-timed trades.  Pentagon Capital said in 2008 that it was closing and
returning investors’ money because of the SEC investigation and
civil suit.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Pentagon
Capital Management Plc, 08-cv-3324, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Ex-Juror Says She Lied to Be ‘More Marketable’ in Tax Case  A juror who helped convict four defendants in a 10-year tax
shelter scheme said she lied about her background to make
herself “more marketable” to serve on the panel.  Catherine Conrad, who was Juror No. 1 in the trial of Paul
Daugerdas, a former lawyer at the defunct law firm  Jenkens &
Gilchrist , and three others, testified in a hearing in Manhattan
federal court yesterday that she failed to disclose that she’s
an alcoholic and a suspended attorney with numerous arrests for
crimes including shoplifting and driving under the influence of
alcohol.  Daugerdas and the other defendants convicted in May at the
end of a 10-week trial have asked U.S. District Judge William
Pauley to order a new trial based on Conrad’s lies and omissions
about her past during jury selection. Pauley ordered her
arrested this morning after she telephoned a judge’s clerk in
Manhattan federal court to say she wasn’t going to obey a court
subpoena requiring her to testify yesterday.  “I know I served and I know I did my civic duty,” Conrad
told Pauley near the end of her testimony yesterday. “I know my
disclosures would definitely not have allowed me to serve as a
juror.”  Pauley is holding a two-day hearing to determine whether to
throw out the convictions and order a new trial. Conrad was
granted immunity for her testimony yesterday, after invoking her
constitutional right not to incriminate herself. Pauley released
Conrad at the end of 3 1/2 hours on the stand.  Jurors convicted Daugerdas on more than 20 criminal counts,
including conspiracy, multiple counts of tax evasion and
attempting to impede the Internal Revenue Service. He faces more
than 20 years in prison.  The defendants claim Conrad wouldn’t have been permitted to
serve on the jury if she’d told the truth about her background.
Her presence on the panel deprived them of a fair trial, they
said.  The case is U.S. v. Daugerdas, 09-CR-581, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at +1-9ay  eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 