-- Kennedy Returns to Mass. Politics in Congress Bid
-- B y   T o m   M o r o n e y   a n d   T e d   B u n k e r
-- 2012-02-16T16:09:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/kennedy-name-returns-to-massachusetts-politics-in-bid-for-seat-in-congress.html
Joseph P. Kennedy III, a grandson of
Robert F. Kennedy, brought the family name back into the
political spotlight today by announcing his candidacy to replace
retiring U.S. Representative  Barney Frank  of Massachusetts.  “My family has had the great privilege of serving
Massachusetts before,” he said in a video posted on his
 website . “They taught me that public service is an honor.”  The former Middlesex County prosecutor moved to Brookline
in the state’s Fourth Congressional District and registered to
vote there on Feb. 7. The district stretches from Boston’s
suburbs to the state’s south coast. He was scheduled to make
several campaign stops today, starting in Newton, where he
greeted Boston-bound commuters at a rail station.  Kennedy, a 31-year-old Democrat whose great uncles include
President John F. Kennedy and U.S. Senator Ted Kennedy, would
return the family to the halls of Congress should he win the
party primary and the general election in November. Cousin
Patrick’s retirement as a U.S. representative for  Rhode Island 
ended 63 years in which a member of the storied clan had served
in elective office in Washington.  His family name has already proven advantageous. Having
never run for office until now, Kennedy was regarded favorably
by 55 percent of those surveyed in a University of
Massachusetts-Lowell poll of 408 registered voters this month.
Kennedy also held a 60-28 percent lead in the same poll over
Republican Sean Bielat, who ran against Frank two years ago. The
poll has a margin of error of plus or minus 6.4 percentage
points.  Labor Support  The AFL-CIO, the state’s largest labor union, endorsed him
by a vote of its Executive Council’s Committee Feb. 12, a week
before he formally announced, according to the group’s website.  The son of six-term  Massachusetts  Representative Joseph P.
Kennedy II, he served in the  Peace Corps  in the Dominican
Republic before starting as a prosecutor in Barnstable County,
which includes the Hyannisport compound owned for generations by
his family. He’s a graduate of  Stanford University  and  Harvard
Law School .  Frank, a Democrat who turns 72 next month, announced his
retirement in November, after the once-a-decade redistricting
process rearranged the Fourth District.  Herb Robinson of Newton, Jules Levine of Brookline, Paul
Heroux of Attleboro, Jack Porter of Newton and Marty Farren of
Sharon have also announced they are running as Democrats.
Elizabeth Childs of Brookline and Bielat have said they are
running for the Republican nomination.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tom Moroney  in  Boston  at 
 tmorrone@bloomberg.net ;
Ted Bunker in Boston at 
 tbunker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 