-- Kenya’s Shilling Weakens Second Day as Uganda Currency Slides
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2012-02-16T17:08:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/kenya-s-shilling-weakens-second-day-as-uganda-currency-slides.html
Kenya’s shilling weakened for the
second day as delays in delivering a second bailout to  Greece 
increased concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen, damping
demand for riskier, emerging-market assets.  The currency of  East Africa ’s biggest economy depreciated
as much as 0.6 percent and traded 0.2 percent lower at 83.05 as
of 7 p.m. in Nairobi, the lowest in a week on a closing basis.  A decision on 130 billion euros ($170 billion) of aid to
Greece was postponed to Feb. 20. Ratings for global banks may be
cut as lenders worldwide face risks of rising funding costs amid
Europe’s debt woes, Moody’s Investors Service said.  “The shilling has weakened due to the ongoing euro
crisis,” said Jeremiah Kendagor, acting head of trading at
Nairobi-based  Kenya  Commercial Bank Ltd. Investors are seeking
“the safety of the U.S. currency,” he said.  The Ugandan shilling depreciated for a second day, with the
currency of the third-biggest economy in East Africa declining
as much as 0.4 percent and traded 0.1 percent lower at 2,320 per
dollar.  “The shilling has weakened due to demand for the dollar in
the  interbank market ,” Peter Mbowa, a currency trader at the
local unit of Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd., said by phone from
Kampala.  Tanzania’s shilling headed to a three-week high as the
central bank sold dollars. The currency of the second-biggest
economy in East Africa appreciated 0.3 percent at 1,590 per
dollar.  “The shilling is strengthening due to inflows coming in
from the central bank and walk-in customers,” Eric Chijoriga, a
trader with National Bank of Commerce Ltd., ABSA Group Ltd.’s
local unit, said by phone from  Dar es Salaam .  -- With assistance from David Malingha Doya in Dar es Salaam and
Fred Ojambo in Kampala.  Editors: Stephen Kirkland, Linda Shen  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  