-- Knicks’ Lin May Utilize Harvard More Than Hoops as NBA Union Rep
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-02-17T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/knicks-lin-may-utilize-harvard-more-than-hoops-as-nba-players-union-rep.html
Jeremy Lin probably will be the next
player representative for the  New York Knicks  and might win a
spot on the union’s executive committee, the head of the
National Basketball Association players union said.  Billy Hunter  said Lin, the second-year point guard with an
economics degree from  Harvard University  who has led the Knicks
on a seven-game winning streak and sparked what’s become dubbed
“Linsanity,” expressed an interest to be more involved in the
National Basketball Players Association.  “At the least he’d be the player representative for the
Knicks,” Hunter said in a telephone interview. “If not something
higher.”  Hunter didn’t give a reason for his projection of Lin’s
union future. Amar’e Stoudemire is the current Knicks player
representative, which teams elect each season. The job usually
lasts one season, and if a player wants the spot he generally
gets it.  Executive committee members serve three-year terms and are
elected by the player representatives. The president serves a
four-year term.  The NBA season started in December almost two months late
after players and management agreed on a 10-year contract,
ending a lockout. Player representatives were among the union
negotiators.  Hunter said he would meet with the Knicks after the All-
Star break, which is scheduled for Feb. 24-26.  “I’ll get a chance to sit and talk with Jeremy,” Hunter
said.  Harvard Link  Lin, 23, is the first Harvard graduate to reach the NBA
since Ed Smith made 11 appearances for New York in 1953-54. He
wasn’t drafted and was cut by two teams before signing with the
Knicks in December, emerging as a starter earlier this month. He
and the  Washington Wizards ’ Maurice Evans, a union vice
president and part of the nine-member executive committee, share
the same agent, Roger Montgomery.  The Knicks beat the Sacramento Kings 100-85 two nights ago
at Madison Square Garden, with Lin getting a career-high 13
assists. A night earlier in Toronto, Lin waved off his teammates
and sank the game-winning 3-point shot with less than a second
remaining.  “Jeremy acts like a team representative already, on the
court,” Knicks swingman Bill Walker said in an interview.
“He’s a leader.”  Hunter said he’s more intrigued by Lin’s education than his
sudden success on court.  “First of all, it’s not every day that you get a kid from
Harvard,” Hunter said. “He’s very bright.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in  New York  at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  