-- Napolitano Counters Industry on Cost of Cybersecurity Bill
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2012-02-16T21:44:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/napolitano-counters-industry-on-cost-of-cybersecurity-measure.html
The Obama administration pressed for
swift passage of cybersecurity legislation by the  U.S. Senate ,
countering concern from industry groups that the bill would
bring unnecessary rules and extra costs.  The measure introduced this week would help strengthen
computer defenses at banks, utilities and telecommunications
companies by setting baseline standards and promoting
information-sharing,  Janet Napolitano , secretary of the  Homeland
Security  Department, told a Senate panel today.  “Our nation cannot improve its ability to defend against
cyber threats unless certain laws that govern cybersecurity
activities are updated,” Napolitano said during a hearing of
the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee
in Washington. “Quickly enacting this legislation would be an
incredibly important step.”  The administration is at odds with the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, the nation’s largest business-lobbying group, on
whether the bill would impose undue regulatory burdens on
companies. Regulators and executives would work together to
develop computer security requirements, Napolitano said.  The push for comprehensive cybersecurity legislation has
intensified following attacks last year on companies including
New York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest U.S. bank by
assets, and Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the
world’s largest defense company.  Setting Rules  U.S. lawmakers and regulators say rules are needed to fight
more sophisticated cyber attacks from hackers in  China , criminal
gangs and terrorists capable of causing severe U.S. economic or
national security damage. The government estimates hackers
jeopardize an estimated $398 billion in U.S. corporate and other
research.  Under the Senate bill, the Homeland Security Department
would have the power to identify systems that may cause mass
casualties or catastrophic economic damage when attacked. The
agency would set regulations requiring operators of critical
networks to improve security, while companies would have to
prove their networks are secure or face penalties.  “A regulatory program would likely become highly rigid in
practice and thus counterproductive to effective
cybersecurity,”  Tom Ridge , the first Homeland Security
Secretary under President  George W. Bush  and now leader of a
U.S. Chamber task force, said in prepared testimony for today’s
hearing. “Added mandates are unnecessary, if not misguided.”  Chamber Favors Incentives  The Chamber said it favors incentives over new rules to
defend vital computer systems, such as legislation in the U.S.
House that would promote information sharing between the
government and companies. The group asked the Senate to delay
consideration of the bill to hold more hearings.  The Senate is scheduled to be on recess next week and
today’s hearing may be the only such session before the bill is
brought to the floor in early March, a senior Democratic Senate
aide said during a briefing yesterday.  Senator  John McCain , an Arizona Republican, criticized
plans to advance the measure unveiled Feb. 14 for a final vote
so soon after its introduction.  “To suggest that this bill should move directly to the
Senate floor because it has been around since 2009 is
outrageous,” he said. McCain was one of seven Senate
Republicans who signed a letter to Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a
Nevada Democrat, and Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, calling for more hearings on the legislation.  ‘Stymie Job Creation’  McCain said the legislation “would stymie job creation”
and fails to include spending offsets. McCain said he and six
senior Senate Republicans would introduce a competing measure
that is more narrowly focused as soon as Feb. 27.  “We are left with no choice but to introduce an
alternative cybersecurity bill,” he said. “The fundamental
difference in our alternative approach is that we aim to enter
into a cooperative relationship with the entire private sector
through information sharing, rather than an adversarial one with
prescriptive regulations.”  Senators supporting the legislation disputed arguments that
new cybersecurity regulations would hurt companies.  “There is nothing in the bill that would stifle
innovation,” Senator  Joe Lieberman , a Connecticut independent
and chairman of the committee, said during the hearing. “Owners
would have the flexibility to meet performance requirements with
whatever hardware or software they chose so long as it achieves
the required level of security.”  Senator  Susan Collins , a Maine Republican who sponsored the
bill, said Congress would be irresponsible if it doesn’t pass
cybersecurity legislation “due to turf battles or claims by
some businesses that we are somehow harming our economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in  Washington  at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  