-- Nestle Forecasts 2012 Earnings Gain
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2012-02-16T16:46:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/nestle-sales-growth-beats-analyst-estimates-on-nespresso-coffee-capsules.html
Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s biggest food
company, reported 2011 sales growth that beat analysts’
estimates and forecast higher 2012 earnings as it introduces
products such as the Nescafe Alegria coffee maker.  Sales rose 7.5 percent excluding acquisitions, disposals
and currency shifts, the Vevey, Switzerland-based company said
today in a statement. That beat the 7 percent average estimate
of 12  analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg. Nestle forecast higher
underlying earnings per share at constant currencies in 2012.  Nestle has developed Maggi Juicy Roasting cooking aids and
Dreyer’s smoothies to counter weakening consumer sentiment in
North America and Europe. The company has also passed on higher
raw-material costs to consumers in the form of increased prices.
Sales from its Americas unit gained 6.2 percent, helped by the
introduction of products such as DiGiorno Pizza Combos.  “The figures look better than expected and there seems to
be an acceleration in the Americas in the fourth quarter, which
is a positive and indicative of improved consumer mood,” said
Jon Cox, head of Swiss research at Kepler Capital Markets in
Zurich.  Nestle rose 2.1 percent to 55.60 Swiss francs, the highest
closing price since Dec. 29, 2010.  Strong Franc  Net income  from continuing operations rose to 9.49 billion
francs ($10.2 billion) from 8.78 billion francs a year earlier,
tempered by the strength of the Swiss currency, which reduced
the value of sales generated in other countries.  “There are some bright spots in the U.S., but generally
the North American economic environment will remain subdued,”
Chief Financial Officer Jim Singh said on a webcast. There will
be a “slow, but gradual improvement,” he said. “We have to
accept that  Europe  will be in a period of lower growth, lower
inflation.”  Nestle said it  expects  so-called organic sales growth in
2012 to meet its target of 5 percent to 6 percent after beating
that range in 2010 and 2011. The maker of KitKat chocolate bars
also aims to widen its so-called trading operating profit margin
at constant currencies.  Nestle had a “phenomenal” fourth quarter, Jean-Philippe Bertschy, an analyst at Bank Vontobel, wrote in a note to
investors. The outlook is “relatively upbeat considering the
challenging environment.”  Raw-material inflation will probably be less than 5 percent
this year, Singh said.  Danone, Pfizer  Danone, the world’s largest yogurt maker, yesterday said
like-for-like sales will rise 5 percent to 7 percent in 2012 and
said European consumer sentiment won’t improve.  Nestle and  Danone (BN)  made first-round bids for  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s
baby-formula unit, which may fetch as much as $10.5 billion,
people with knowledge of the process said last month. Singh
today declined to comment on Pfizer.  The Swiss company studies all possible acquisitions that
make strategic sense, including larger ones, the CFO said.
Nestle’s debt guidance assumes some “bolt-on” acquisitions, he
also said. The Purina pet-food maker expects  net debt  of about
15 billion francs to 18 billion francs by 2013, compared with
14.3 billion francs at the end of 2011.  The food company last week unveiled the Alegria coffee
machine, which is designed for small businesses such as
hairdressers and florists. Nestle has developed a range of
beverage systems including the Viaggi super-premium coffeemaker
and Special.T tea machines. Sales of Nespresso rose more than 20
percent in 2011, making it Nestle’s fastest-growing major brand.  Pure Life  Organic sales at Nestle Waters increased 5.2 percent,
helped by growth in  emerging markets  and  North America . The
company’s Pure Life bottled-water brand is the world’s largest.
Nestle said it expects pricing pressure from competitors to
continue.  Nestle expects capital expenditure in 2012 to be 5 percent
to 6 percent of sales.  The weakness of currencies against the franc stripped 13
percentage points off sales growth, Nestle said. The dollar was
on average 15 percent lower against the franc last year, while
the euro was down 11 percent.  Nestle proposed a  dividend  of 1.95 francs a share, 5.4
percent more than the previous year. The company doesn’t plan
any buybacks in the short-term as its priority is investing cash
in its businesses and paying dividends, Singh said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva  at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  