-- New Jersey Democrats Send Christie Gay-Marriage Bill He Promises to Veto
-- B y   S t a c i e   S e r v e t a h
-- 2012-02-16T21:59:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/new-jersey-democrats-send-christie-gay-marriage-bill-he-promises-to-veto.html
New Jersey (STONJ1) ’s Democratic-led
Legislature passed a bill legalizing gay marriage and sent it to
Governor  Chris Christie , who has promised to veto the measure.  The Assembly voted in favor of the bill, 42-33, after the
Senate approved it on Feb. 13 by 24-16. Sponsors said they will
work to gather the votes to override a veto. Seven states
already allow same-sex weddings.  Democrats in New Jersey have made legalizing same-sex
marriage a priority, two years after they failed to pass a
similar bill supported by then-Governor Jon Corzine, a Democrat.
Christie, 49, a first-term Republican, has said he believes
marriage should be between a man and a woman, and wants voters
to decide the issue in a referendum.  Governor Christine Gregoire signed a bill this week making
Washington the seventh state to grant same-sex couples the right
to marry.  New York , Massachusetts,  Connecticut ,  Iowa , New
Hampshire, Vermont and the  District of Columbia  already permit
same-sex weddings.  Maryland’s House of Delegates, which last year stood in the
way of gay marriage legislation, is set to vote on a similar
measure as soon as this week.  Referendum Rejections  Voters nationwide have rejected gay marriage in all 31
referendums on the issue. Democrats in New Jersey say marriage
is a civil right that shouldn’t be subject to a popular vote.
Senate President  Stephen Sweeney , a West Deptford Democrat, said
this week “there’s not a chance in hell” he’d post a
referendum bill.  Democrats control the Senate, 24-16, and the Assembly,
48-32. For an override, they would need a two-thirds majority,
or 27 supporters in the Senate and 54 in the Assembly.  “They are going to be nowhere near the votes to override
in either chamber,” Christie said Feb. 14 in his Trenton
office.  “Believe me, I will take very swift action on the bill,”
he said. “And we can move on to the things the people of  New
Jersey  say are most important to them, which are creating jobs,
lowering taxes and continuing the New Jersey comeback.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stacie Servetah in Trenton at 
 sbabula@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  