-- Norway’s Olsen Says Is Monitoring Krone
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-02-16T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/norges-bank-governor-says-monitoring-krone-has-room-to-maneuver.html
Norway ’s central bank is monitoring
the krone after its recent gains and remains ready to act should
the currency’s appreciation warrant a response, Governor
Oeystein Olsen said.  “We follow closely the krone developments,” he said
yesterday in an interview in Oslo. “We have observed, of
course, the recent development of the krone, we’re close to the
level” in September, when it touched an eight-year high, he
said.  The central bank, which in December lowered its main rate
by half a percentage point to 1.75 percent, will respond to
krone swings to the extent that they affect inflation. The
currency this week touched the highest level since Sept. 8, when
the Swiss National Bank’s decision to peg the franc to the euro
prompted investors to seek alternative havens.  “In September, it was linked to a decision by the  Swiss
National Bank , we have nothing similar,” Olsen said. “So I
don’t think the need necessarily is the same for us to react in
the same way as we did then.”  The  exchange rate  continues to be a “challenge” for the
government, Trade Minister Trond Giske said Feb. 13. The central
bank in September signaled it was ready to take steps to curb
the krone’s appreciation. Those comments helped weaken the
exchange rate, triggering a 4.8 percent decline from a Sept. 8
peak through a trough two weeks later.  100% Underline  The September statement remains “valid,” Olsen said
yesterday. “I can 100 percent underline the same paragraph as I
did in September. We have room to maneuver; our  interest rate 
is not zero.”  The world’s seventh-largest oil exporter, which boasts the
biggest budget surplus of any AAA rated nation, has emerged as a
haven from the euro debt crisis. The Norwegian currency has
strengthened 2.6 percent against the euro so far this year as
investors turn to higher-yielding markets, even after policy
makers cut borrowing costs. The Nordic nation has no net debt
thanks to a $596 billion sovereign-wealth fund, helping support
the world’s lowest risk of default, as measured by credit
default swaps.  Still weaker demand from debt-ridden  Europe  and krone gains
are prompting some exporters to announce job cuts, including
 Norske Skogindustrier ASA (NSG) , the world’s second-largest maker of
newsprint, and  Renewable Energy Corp. (REC)  ASA, a Norwegian maker of
solar energy components.  Export Effects  “Some segments of the export industry are feeling the
effects of lower turnover and a strong krone,” Olsen said in
the text of his annual speech delivered yesterday.  One in four exporters is planning to cut staff this
quarter, according to the Confederation of Norwegian Enterprise.
“We have two worrying scenarios for our export industry. One is
the currency,” the other is wage growth, John G. Bernander,
NHO’s chief executive officer said in an interview this week.  The government needs to “make sure we don’t overstretch
the budget by having too much focus on public spending,” he
said.  Olsen in his speech urged the government to spend less of
the country’s oil money and avoid an over-reliance on its
commodities wealth or risk killing manufacturing jobs.  “Entire industries could be lost. If spending proves to be
excessive, such structural changes may be difficult, or
impossible, to reverse,” he said.  Norway’s mainland economy, which excludes income from oil
and shipping, will grow 2.2 percent this year, the  International
Monetary Fund  said Feb. 2. By comparison, the 17-member euro
area will expand just 0.5 percent in 2012, the European
Commission said on Nov. 10.  Policy makers will next meet on March 14 to decide on
interest rates.  -- With assistance from Stephen Treloar in Oslo. Editors: Jonas Bergman, Tasneem Brogger  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  