-- Norges Bank’s Olsen Urges Spending Cuts as Oil Wealth Grows
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-02-16T18:36:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/norges-bank-s-olsen-urges-spending-cuts-as-oil-wealth-grows-1-.html
Norway ’s central bank Governor
Oeystein Olsen told the government to spend less of the
country’s oil money and avoid an over-reliance on its
commodities wealth or risk killing manufacturing jobs.  The government should tighten its fiscal policy guidelines
and limit the use of petroleum revenue to 3 percent of Norway’s
sovereign wealth fund from the current 4 percent, Olsen said
today in the text of his annual speech on the economy and
monetary policy.  “Even though petroleum revenues are phased in gradually, a
phasing out of manufacturing and other private industries may
not be as smooth,” he said. “Entire industries could be lost.
If spending proves to be excessive, such structural changes may
be difficult, or impossible, to reverse.”  The world’s seventh-largest oil exporter, which boasts the
biggest budget surplus of any AAA rated nation, has largely been
shielded from the global financial crisis, in part after
spending a record amount of its oil money. The statistics office
estimates Norway’s economy, excluding income from oil and
shipping, will grow 2.7 percent this year, versus a European
Commission estimate for only 0.5 percent in the euro area.  Finance Minister Sigbjoern Johnsen said the government has
“no plans” to heed Olsen’s advice, warning policy makers need
to be “careful” when considering such changes, in comments to
reporters in Oslo.  Growing Fund  The government, led by Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg,
last year brought spending to within 4 percent of the $596
billion sovereign-wealth fund. Still, the fund has grown more
than 10-fold since 2001, when the rule was put in place, and
will almost double by 2020, the government estimates. That means
4 percent represents more money each year, adding to stimulus.  Olsen said lowering the spending limit to 3 percent also
makes sense because the expected real return for the fund is
lower than the 4 percent estimated when the rule was created.  “At the moment, it would seem that economic growth ahead
will be more modest than in the favorable pre-crisis years,” he
said. “We must therefore be prepared for an extended period of
lower returns, even though growth and financial market returns
do not always go hand in hand.”  Olsen in December lowered the deposit rate by half a
percentage point to 1.75 percent, the first cut since June 2009.
Policy makers are torn between protecting exporters through
lower rates that cap krone gains and a monetary policy path that
addresses household debt growth.  Room to Maneuver  While the bank still has room to maneuver in both
directions on rates, the “question nonetheless remains whether
it’s desirable to use monetary policy to accelerate the pace of
inflation when the countries around us are in a recession,”
Olsen said. “Even if the krone depreciates somewhat, relatively
high cost growth in Norway that could quicken the pace of
inflation might lead to a further deterioration in
competitiveness.”  Norway’s currency has strengthened as investors turn to
higher-yielding markets. The krone reached a five-month high
against the euro this week, prompting speculation Olsen may talk
the currency down. In September, Olsen warned that the bank was
ready to take measures to prevent further krone appreciation,
and signaled he would use the  interest rate  to do so.  Credit Growth  At the same time low borrowing costs and unemployment have
fueled household borrowing. Private debt levels have risen to
their highest since at least 1988, the central bank estimates.
 House prices  surged an annual 8.4 percent last month, according
to the Real Estate Brokers Association. Consumer  credit growth 
hovers at more than 7 percent.  “Low interest rates over a prolonged period tend to
amplify an upward spiral in house prices and lending,” Olsen
said. “Imbalances that build up in credit markets can have
severe ripple effects further ahead, with substantial impact on
output and employment.”  Underlying inflation  accelerated for the first time in five
months in January to 1.3 percent from 1 percent a month earlier.
The central bank targets price growth of close to 2.5 percent.  “Under the current outlook, it will likely take several
years before the inflation is back on target,” Olsen said.  Policy makers next meet March 14 to decide rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  