-- Nuclear Safety Chief Says Lax Rules Led to Fukushima Crisis
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2012-02-16T09:35:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/nuclear-safety-chief-says-lax-rules-led-to-fukushima-disaster.html
Japan ’s atomic safety rules are
inferior to global standards and left the country unprepared for
the Fukushima nuclear disaster last March, the country’s top
nuclear regulator told a parliamentary investigation.  “The root of the problem lies in the fact that, when other
countries implement changes, Japan spends time making excuses as
to why we don’t have to follow,” Nuclear Safety Commission
Chairman Haruki Madarame told the inquiry yesterday in the
parliamentary annex building in central Tokyo.  There were flaws in the safety rules governing  Tokyo
Electric Power Co. (9501) , the operator of the wrecked Fukushima Dai-
Ichi plant, and other nuclear power companies, he said. That
included insufficient protection against tsunamis, like the one
that caused the disaster. Utilities and bureaucrats were
responsible for lax enforcement, Madarame said.  “You blame the bureaucracy and operators, but aren’t you
the one whose actions make the least sense” as the head of
atomic safety?, Shuya Nomura, a lawyer and professor at Chuo Law
School in  Tokyo , asked Madarame.  Madarame responded that he’d been trying to revise nuclear
safety guidelines since he joined the NSC in 2010.  The March 11 disaster caused uranium fuel meltdowns at
three reactors and radiation release that forced about 160,000
residents to evacuate. It’s the worst atomic disaster since the
Chernobyl reactor exploded in 1986.  Response Failings  Failings in the first days of the disaster as reactor
buildings exploded and the fuel cores melted were also
highlighted in yesteday’s hearing.  Nobuaki Terasaka, the head of the Nuclear and Industrial
Safety Agency during the crisis, told the panel he played a
minor role at the prime minister’s response center during
efforts to bring the reactors under control because he doesn’t
have a scientific or nuclear engineering background.  The Diet inquiry is the first investigation into the
disaster with powers of subpoena and includes critics of the
government, the regulators and Tepco.  The investigation is going on as NISA reviews so-called
stress tests to check on the safety of the country’s 54 nuclear
reactors. Those checks have been criticized by the agency’s own
advisers for disregarding the lessons of the catastrophe.  “The safety review system used before the Fukushima
accident was wrong,” Hiromitsu Ino, a Professor Emeritus at the
 University of Tokyo  who serves on NISA’s stress-test committee
said in January. “The same system is being used for the current
stress tests without taking into consideration the causes of the
Fukushima accident.”  Ino’s views were echoed by Kazuhiko Kudo, a research
professor of nuclear engineering at  Kyushu University , who said
stress tests are computer simulations to assess how strong a
plant is and they don’t reflect the lessons from the Fukushima
accident.  “It’s wrong to use the stress-test results as a measure to
judge whether to restart idled reactors,” said Kudo.  the maximum level of earthquake or tsunami that a plant can
withstand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  