-- Obama’s Re-Election Chances Increase With Signs of Improving U.S. Economy
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2012-02-17T15:45:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/obama-s-election-prospects-rise-with-economic-data.html
The economy is looking better to the
American public and with it President  Barack Obama ’s re-election
prospects.  Claims for jobless benefits unexpectedly dropped last week
to the lowest level in almost four years, providing fresh
evidence the job market is on the mend. Reports released
yesterday on housing and manufacturing also beat forecasters’
expectations.  The  Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index (COMFBTWR)  climbed for a fourth
straight week to reach the highest level in a year. Sentiment is
rising even among those who have yet to benefit from the
recovery, as payrolls expand and the unemployment rate drops.
Jobless Americans are the most optimistic since April 2008.  “Political independents have a markedly better view of the
prospects for better times than they did just a few months ago,
and Obama is running much more strongly among independents than
he was a few months ago,”  Andrew Kohut , president of the
nonpartisan Pew Research Center in Washington, said. “Reports
such as those out yesterday will only reinforce this notion that
things are getting better.”  Economic confidence among independents, a voter group
targeted by both parties, surged to a four-year high earlier
this month, the  Bloomberg index  showed. Sentiment among
Republicans in the period ended Feb. 12 was the highest since
July, while Democrats were the most optimistic since mid-
December, the gauge showed.  Conference Board Index  The Conference Board today said its index of leading
indicators rose 0.4 percent in January, signaling the economy
will keep expending through the first half of the year.  The cost of living climbed less than forecast, another
report showed today. The 0.2 percent increase in January
supports the  Federal Reserve ’s view that inflation will be
contained. That maintains leeway for the central bank to
continue stimulating growth through its monetary policy.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.2 percent to
1,360.45 at 10:03 a.m. in  New York , near the highest level in
three years, following a 1.1 percent increase yesterday. The
index has risen 8.1 percent this year.  ‘On the Rebound’  “People are starting to get a sense that the economy is on
the rebound,” Obama told campaign donors yesterday in Corona
Del Mar,  California . Obama is on a three-day West Coast trip
during which he’s raising more than $8 million for his re-
election bid.  Obama is seeking a second term in the November election and
the Republicans vying for their party’s presidential nomination
have made his handling of the economy a core issue.  A Pew poll, released yesterday, found public assessment of
Obama’s economic policies are improving even as many Americans
remain dissatisfied. Asked about the impact of Obama’s policies,
33 percent said they have made the economy better, 35 percent
said worse and 25 percent said they had no effect so far,
according to the poll of 1,000 adults conducted Feb. 8 to Feb.
12. The margin of error was plus or minus 4 percentage points.  In October, Pew found 20 percent said Obama’s policies had
made the economy better, 38 percent said worse and 37 percent no
effect so far.  Approval Rating  Obama’s approval rating reached 50 percent in a  CBS/New
York Times poll  conducted Feb. 8 to Feb 13. The president also
led all four Republican presidential candidates in hypothetical
general election match-ups. The poll was based on telephone
interviews with 1,197 adults conducted Feb. 8 to Feb. 13. The
margin of error is plus or minus 3 percentage points.  The 50 percent approval rating has been a key indicator for
re-election. Incumbent presidents  Gerald Ford ,  Jimmy Carter  and
 George H.W. Bush  were all below 50 percent in March of the years
they lost their re-election bids, according to the polling
organization Gallup Inc. Incumbent Presidents  Richard Nixon ,
 Ronald Reagan  and  Bill Clinton , who each won a second term, were
above that mark in March. Obama’s immediate predecessor,  George W. Bush , also re-elected, was just short of the threshold at 49
percent in March of 2004.  The positive economic news helps Obama deliver his re-
election message while also giving him a weapon against his
eventual Republican opponent in November.  GM Earnings  That includes yesterday’s announcement by  General Motors
Co. (GM) , the beneficiary of an Obama-backed 2009 government bailout,
that it earned $9.19 billion last year, the largest profit in
its 103-year history. The company also has regained its position
as the world’s top-selling automaker.  The auto company’s earnings report came just as the focus
of the presidential campaign has pivoted to the center of the
U.S.  auto industry  in anticipation of the Michigan Republican
primary Feb. 28.  The four main Republican presidential candidates have
criticized the rescue of GM and Chrysler Group LLC. Former
Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , the leading fundraiser among
the Republican contenders, wrote an op-ed in the New York Times
in 2008 saying that if the government bailed out U.S. automakers
“you can kiss the American automotive industry goodbye.”  Obama campaign manager Jim Messina trumpeted the earnings
results with a message on Twitter: “Glad we didn’t let Detroit
fail as Romney suggested. Never bet against the American
worker!”  Santorum Reaction  Republican presidential candidate Rick Santorum scoffed at
the idea that bailout package helped the auto industry.  GM and Chrysler would be “alive and equally as well, or
better off, than they are now,” Santorum told about 300 people
at a Detroit Economic Club luncheon yesterday. “The markets
would have reacted to restructure it to be more competitive.”  In speeches, Obama frequently cites the revival of GM and
Chrysler to justify his economic policies and project an
optimistic view of the future.  “What’s happening in Detroit can happen in other
industries,” he said Feb. 15 in Milwaukee. “That’s what we’ve
got to be shooting for, is to create opportunities for
hardworking Americans to get in there and start making stuff
again and sending it all over the world.”  Yesterday’s positive economic news follows four consecutive
months of declines in the  unemployment rate , a main indicator
for voters and in the political debate. The January rate of 8.3
percent was the lowest in almost three years.  Still, the possibility of a worsening of the European debt
crisis remains a cloud hanging over the economy. U.S. stocks
slid for two days this week amid concern over Greek debt
negotiations.  Tensions with  Iran  over its nuclear program also raise the
risk of Middle East turmoil, which would drive up  oil prices .  A pickup in the recovery at the start of last year was
blunted by a surge in gasoline prices, the earthquake and
tsunami in  Japan , the European debt crisis and market concern
over U.S. political gridlock stirred by protracted talks on
raising the debt limit.  “We have seen people’s expectations rise several times
during the Great Recession only to be dashed,” Kohut said.
“Right now it looks like a pretty good run.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in  Washington  at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  