-- Obama Says Restoring U.S. Image Abroad Was a Top Accomplishment
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-02-16T05:03:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/obama-says-restoring-u-s-image-abroad-was-a-top-accomplishment.html
President  Barack Obama  told donors
in  Los Angeles  that improving the nation’s image abroad was one
of the accomplishments he is most proud of in his first term.  He also warned them the 2012 re-election campaign will be a
tougher fight than the 2008 race for the White House.  “Its not going to be easier this time; it’s going to be
harder this time,” Obama said to about 1,000 supporters who
were gathered last night on the grounds of the Spanish-style
estate of soap opera producer Bradley Bell and his wife,
Colleen. “As tough as things are, the changes we’ve made are
remarkable.”  Obama cited passage of the health-care law he had
campaigned on, the return home of troops from  Iraq  and the
repeal of the military’s ban on openly gay members of the armed
services and enhancing the status of the U.S. in the world.  “One of the proudest things of my three years in office is
helping to restore a sense of respect for America around the
world, a belief that we are not just defined by the size of our
military,” he said.  Obama also attended a dinner at Bell’s home, attended by
 George Clooney  and co-hosted by fellow actor Will Ferrell, at
which about 80 supporters paid $35,800 each. The events are
among six for Obama yesterday and today in California. Along
with fundraisers in  Washington  state tomorrow, Obama is seeking
to raise more than $8 million for his campaign on the three-day
West Coast swing.  Sharing Disappointment  Obama said he sympathized with people who were disappointed
that he hadn’t done enough to fulfill some of his campaign
pledges, including closing the prison camp at Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba, and ending the war in  Afghanistan . “I understand that,” he
said. “I feel the same way sometimes.”  Quoting former New York Governor Mario Cuomo that
“campaigning is poetry, governance is prose,” Obama said, “We’ve
been slogging through prose for the last three years. And
sometimes that gets people discouraged because people, they like
the poetry.”  The fundraisers are bracketed by speeches on the economy
and the revival of U.S. manufacturing. Earlier yesterday Obama
talked about companies moving jobs back to the U.S. during a
visit to a Master Lock Co. factory in  Milwaukee . Tomorrow, he is
scheduled to stop at a  Boeing Co. (BA)  factory in Everett,
Washington, outside of  Seattle . Obama is seeking re-election
with an  unemployment rate  that has been at or above 8 percent
for three years and an economy still struggling to replace the
8.8 million jobs lost due to the recession.  Anti-Piracy Legislation  The trip to California marks the president’s first visit to
the state since his administration on Jan. 14 cast doubt on
Hollywood-backed anti-piracy legislation before Congress. A post
on the White House website said the administration wouldn’t
support measures that encourage censorship or disrupt the
structure of the Internet. Days later the House and Senate
shelved the legislation.  Obama may get questions from entertainment industry
executives about reviving the anti-piracy measure, said Andrew Schwartzman, senior vice president of the Washington-based
advocacy group Media Access Project.  Movie executives will have to “lick their wounds and
accept that, if legislation is going to be enacted, it is going
to require a very substantial revision,” said Schwartzman,
whose group promotes freedom of expression and universal access
to communications.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  told reporters
traveling with the president that the administration is
committed to finding a solution that will protect copyrights and
intellectual property without impinging on the free flow of
information.  Not Either Or  “We believe it’s a ‘both and,’ not an ‘either or’
proposition,” Carney said.  The debate pits two of Obama’s top donor groups, the
entertainment industry and Silicon Valley, which are at odds
over the legislation.  Some of Obama’s top bundlers are entertainment industry
giants, including  Dreamworks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA)  Chief Executive
Officer  Jeffrey Katzenberg , the co-founder of Miramax Film
Corp.,  Harvey Weinstein , and Katzenberg’s political consultant,
Andy Spahn. Weinstein, through his publicist, declined to be
interviewed. Katzenberg and Spahn didn’t respond to requests for
comment.  Californians have given more to the president’s campaign
than donors from any other state, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics, a Washington-based group that tracks
political money.  The president’s campaign organization, Obama for America,
raised $128 million in 2011 and ended the year with $81.8
million in cash.  Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney is the leading
Republican presidential candidate in fundraising, taking in $57
million last year and he started the primary season with $20
million to spend.  The president stayed last night at the Beverly Hilton in
 Beverly Hills ,  California , the hotel where 48-year-old pop
singer Whitney Houston was found dead in a bath tub on Feb. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Milwaukee at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  