-- Tokyo Grain Bourse May Cease as Rice Trade Fails to Boost Volume
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 2012-02-16T00:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/tokyo-grain-bourse-may-cease-as-rice-trade-fails-to-boost-volume.html
Tokyo  Grain Exchange Inc., operator
of  Japan ’s second-largest commodity bourse, is under pressure
from shareholders to cease operation and transfer trading of
farm futures to rivals because of declining volumes.  The exchange may transfer trading of Japanese rice and
azuki beans to the  Kansai Commodities Exchange  in  Osaka , said
Jitsuo Tatara, chairman of broker Yutaka Shoji Co., one of the
Tokyo bourse’s 99 shareholders. Corn and soybean futures may be
taken over by the Tokyo Commodity Exchange, which shares the
same trading system, he said.  The grain exchange is losing about 40 million yen ($509,944)
a month as retail investor participation shrank after the
government tightened regulations covering sales of riskier
financial assets to individuals, Tatara said. The bourse revived
rice futures in August for the first time in seven decades to
attract money from hedgers and investors. Concerns that rice
tainted by radiation from Fukushima may be delivered depressed
volumes, said Kazuhiko Saito, an analyst at broker Fujitomi Co.  “There are no other options for the exchange but to
transfer its agricultural futures to other bourses,” said
Hideaki Futaya, president of Unicom Group Holdings, which
operates broker and exchange shareholder Nihon Unicom.  Exchange board members will meet on Feb. 21 to discuss the
future of the bourse, spokesman Yuta Asai said, declining to say
whether it was under pressure to cease operations and transfer
futures contracts. Yutaka Shoji’s Tatara said he expects the
members to decide on the transfer at the meeting.  Declining Volume  The number of Japanese raw-material bourses has dropped to
three from seven in 2005, when the government tightened
regulations over retail sales of commodity futures, leading to a
slump in volume. The regulation was meant to protect individual
investors after complaints from consumer protection groups about
aggressive sales activities by commodity brokers.  Tokyo Grain Exchange had an operating loss of 773.7 million
yen in the year ended March 31, 2011, as trading volume plunged
25 percent on reduced participation by local investors.  The bourse trades corn, soybeans, coffee, raw sugar, rice
and azuki beans. Trading volume dropped to 2.66 million lots
last year from a record of more than 26.5 million lots in the
year ended March 31, 2004.  Kansai Commodities Exchange manager for general affairs
Katsuo Suzuki declined to comment on the transfer of rice and
azuki futures. The bourse trades rice and azuki beans as well as
corn, soybeans, raw sugar and frozen shrimp.  Rice Futures  Tokyo Grain Exchange President Yoshiaki Watanabe said in an
interview in July that listing of rice futures may boost trading
volume and help it break even after three consecutive years of
losses. In January, average trading volume for rice was 471 lots
a day, far below the bourse’s target of 5,000 lots.  “Rice failed to draw money from individual investors as
the government restricts sales activities by brokers,” said
Takaki Shigemoto, an analyst at research company JSC Corp. in
Tokyo. “Without speculators, producers and distributors are
unable to use the market for hedging.”  The shrinking volume led the board members of the Tokyo
Grain Exchange in 2010 to decide to transfer trading to the
Tokyo Commodity Exchange, after integrating their systems in
January last year. The grain exchange dropped the plan after it
obtained approval to list rice from the Ministry of Agriculture,
Forestry and Fisheries.  The ministry approved reviving rice futures as it
introduced an income-support program for rice growers in 2010,
replacing a price-control system that ensured farm incomes.
Without government price support, volatility could increase the
need for farmers and merchants to hedge.  “We have not received any new request yet” to take over
trade from the grain exchange, Tocom President Tadashi Ezaki
said Feb. 7. “We are not in a situation to take over what does
not work as a business.”  Tocom trades gold, silver, platinum, palladium, rubber,
gasoline, kerosene, gas oil and crude oil. It represented 92
percent of the total trading volume of the three Japanese raw-
material bourses in 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at
   atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Yasumasa Song in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  