-- Honduras Prison Fire That Killed 350 Is Blamed on Crackdown Against Gangs
-- B y   E r i c   S a b o   a n d   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-02-16T23:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/honduras-prison-fire-that-killed-350-is-blamed-on-crackdown-against-gangs.html
Honduras ’s crackdown on violent
gangs has led to a surge of inmates in poorly controlled and
dilapidated jails, a policy that may have caused the world’s
worst prison fire in a century, human rights groups said.  At least 350 inmates died yesterday after a fire swept
through a penitentiary in Comayagua, 55 miles (88 kilometers)
north of the capital, the Security Ministry said yesterday. Of
the 800 prisoners in the prison, more than half were either
awaiting trial or being held as suspected gang members, the
 Associated Press  reported today, citing an internal Honduran
government document.  “This is an issue that’s been neglected for decades,”
Jose Miguel Vivanco, America’s director for Washington-based
 Human Rights Watch , said today in a phone interview. “People
want to lock up gangs and forget about them.”  Jails throughout  Latin America  face similar predicaments,
with prisoners being forced into cramped cells with little
policing, Vivanco said. Almost 130 gangs operate in Honduras,
fueling a  murder rate  that has doubled since 2005 to become
among the world’s highest, according to the  United Nations . The
Central American nation has a homicide rate of 89 per 100,000
inhabitants, compared with 18 for  Mexico , the UN said in an
October  report .  In a national address yesterday, President Porfirio Lobo
said he fired the prison director pending a full investigation.  Prison Crisis  The U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and
Explosives plans to send a team to investigate the fire at the
request of the Honduras government, according to an e-mailed
statement from the agency today.  A 2003 law that criminalizes people for association with
gangs, including tattoos and suspicion of drug use, has caused
excessive arrests in Honduras, said Adrienne Pine, an assistant
professor at American University.  Yesterday’s fire was at least the third in Honduras in the
past decade. In May 2004, more than 100 inmates were killed in a
blaze at a prison in San Pedro Sula, while as many as 86 died
the year earlier in a jail in La Ceiba.  Guards failed to let prisoners out of their cells during
yesterday’s fire and may have fired off their guns in an attempt
to push back what they thought was a prison riot, according to
the Honduran human rights group, Cofadeh.  “Honduras is in a state of national emergency in human
rights,” Cofadeh’s director, Berta Oliva, said in a phone
interview today from Tegucigalpa. “Here respect for life has
been lost and things are turning into chaos.”  Police carried out body bags from the prison today as
survivors recounted how they ripped through tin ceilings to
escape the blaze.  “I was in bed when they shouted fire, then I heard
screaming and smelled burning flesh,” Jose Enrique Guevara told
La Prensa newspaper today while being treated in a hospital.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Sabo in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Williams in  San Jose  at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 