-- Morgan Stanley’s Roach Retiring to Focus on Scholarly Work
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H a y s
-- 2012-02-16T18:16:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/morgan-stanley-s-stephen-roach-retiring.html
Stephen Roach , Morgan Stanley’s
former chairman for Asia and chief economist, is retiring from
the firm to focus on scholarly pursuits.  Chief Executive Officer James Gorman announced the
departure of Roach, the non-executive chairman for Asia since
2010, in a memo to employees today. Roach has taught at  Yale
University  and plans to go into academia full-time, according to
the memo.  The 66-year-old economist, who joined New York-based Morgan
Stanley in 1982, has predicted  China  will overtake the U.S. as
the dominant economy by 2025. Roach said in a Bloomberg
Television interview last week that the U.S. must stop blaming
China for its problems and focus on creating economic growth
through exports.  “Steve will no doubt continue to animate the scholarly
discourse, particularly as it relates to the economies of
Asia,” Gorman wrote in the memo. “During his career, he has
been recognized as one of Wall Street’s most influential thought
leaders.”  Roach plans to write a book on the tensions in the U.S.-
China economic relationship, he said today in an interview on 
Bloomberg Radio's “The Hays Advantage” with Kathleen Hays. The 
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  economics group he helped build will continue to 
address the major themes shaping the global outlook, Roach said.  Shelf Life  “It’s easy to stay with the trend and make these very
short-term trading calls, but I’d like to say that the legacy
I’ve left is a team that really looks out into the medium- to
longer-term to make calls that have long shelf lives and really
can drive broad macro trends in the world and the markets,” he
said today.  In 2007, Roach said the  U.S. economy  would stagnate because
of an impending housing slump that would erode  consumer
spending . He said last month that the U.S. needs to have more
active debates about the exit strategy for the monetary and
fiscal stimulus provided during the credit crisis, and said
leaders need to learn humility from the experience.  “As I look to the United States, I think to this day,
there’s a glaring absence of truly being able to fathom the
mistakes that were made either on  Wall Street ,  Washington , or
Main Street, heading into the great crisis of 2008 and 2009,”
Roach said in a Bloomberg Radio interview last month. “So
humility is not something that we’ve been able to fully grasp at
this point, I’m sorry to say.”  Europe  will likely remain in a recession for the bulk of
this year, Roach said last month. He said he doesn’t think the
Euro will break apart, even as Greece “probably should” exit
the group.  Before joining Morgan Stanley, Roach worked at Morgan
Guaranty Trust Company and on the research staff of the Federal
Reserve Board in Washington. Roach has a Ph.D. in economics from
New York University.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
 Kathleen Hays  in New York at 
 khays4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  