-- Los Angeles Gasoline Rises to Four-Month High on Refinery Buying
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-02-16T00:12:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/los-angeles-gasoline-rises-to-four-month-high-on-refinery-buying.html
California-blend gasoline in  Los
Angeles  jumped to the highest level against futures in four
months on speculation that planned maintenance is forcing
refiners to buy supplies on the  spot market .  Carbob in  Los Angeles (MOGLDB85)  rose 5.5 cents to a premium of 36
cents a gallon against gasoline futures traded on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  at 4:28 p.m. East Coast time, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the largest premium for the
fuel since Oct. 14.  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  is performing maintenance at the  Martinez (TEMTCRUD) 
refinery in Northern California and  BP Plc (BP/)  will shut several
units at the  Carson (BPCRCRUD)  refinery in  Southern California  for work
next month, three people said Jan. 3. California-blend gasoline
supplies dropped 3.6 percent to 6.19 million barrels last week
from a week earlier, the state Energy Commission said today.  “Production is down, especially down south,” Rob Schlichting, a spokesman for the commission in  Sacramento , said
in an e-mail.  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) , based in  San Antonio , is starting
crude and coker units at the Wilmington refinery in Southern
California following a maintenance turnaround,  Bill Day , a
company spokesman in San Antonio, said in an e-mail.  The premium for Carbob in  San Francisco (MOGSD85P)  rose 5 cents to
30.5 cents a gallon against gasoline futures, the highest since
Oct. 31.  California Diesel  California-blend, or CARB, diesel in  Los Angeles (DIEILCAD) 
strengthened 1.37 cents to a premium of 3.5 cents to Nymex
heating oil futures, the highest level in a month. San Francisco
CARB diesel rose 1.5 cents to a premium of 2.5 cents against
futures.  CARB diesel inventories slipped 1.5 percent to 2.84 million
barrels last week, the state Energy Commission said.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland, Oregon (MOGHD87P) , rose
2.5 cents to a discount of 4.5 cents versus gasoline futures,
the strongest level for the fuel since Jan. 18.  Gasoline inventories  on the West Coast, known as the Padd 5
region, dropped 0.8 percent last week to 31.6 million barrels,
the lowest level in four weeks, the Energy Department said. Low-
sulfur diesel stocks fell 0.2 percent to 14.1 million barrels,
the agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  