-- Osborne Said to Look Beyond Bank of England for King Successor as Governor
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-02-16T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/osborne-said-to-look-outside-bank-of-england-for-king-successor.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  is considering looking outside the Bank of England for a
successor to  Mervyn King , which would be the first such move in
30 years, according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  Osborne and officials at the Treasury in London will begin
the search for King’s successor after March, with the aim of
making an announcement later this year, said one of the people,
who declined to be identified because the process is still at an
early stage. The Treasury would prefer the next governor to have
banking experience now that the central bank’s powers have been
expanded to include regulation of lenders, the person said.  The Treasury’s current position contrasts with the view
among some economists and bookmakers that Bank of England Deputy
Governor  Paul Tucker  is the favorite for the role. Widening the
pool of candidates beyond central bank insiders follows strains
with the Treasury dating back to 2007 that center on how King
responded to the financial crisis.  The enhanced powers “may well argue for a banker rather
than an economist like Mervyn King,” said  Jonathan Loynes ,
chief European economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in London.
“It’s become clear over the last few years that being the
governor is not just about setting  interest rates .”  King is scheduled to leave the bank at the end of June 2013
after serving the maximum two  five-year terms  allowed. The next
governor may be limited to a single eight-year term, under
legislation proposed by the government.  Appointment Process  The government aims to announce an appointment before the
end of the year so that a successor is known at least six months
before King’s second term expires, one of the people said.  A Treasury official said the chancellor will pick the best
person for the  Bank of England  role and that the selection
process hasn’t begun yet. The central bank declined to comment.  Civil servants will draw up a list of candidates for
Osborne, who need not limit his choice to that selection. He
will put his recommendation to the prime minister and the
appointment is made formally by  Queen Elizabeth II .  The new governor will head the Financial Policy Committee,
set up as part of an overhaul of banking regulation that will
see the Financial Services Authority abolished and most of its
powers transferred to the Bank of England.  Former  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  Chairman  Stephen Green , now a
minister in the Department for Business advising Osborne on
banking issues, ex- Barclays Plc (BARC)  Chief Executive Officer John Varley, and the chairman of the Financial Services Authority,
 Adair Turner , may be among the list of candidates that civil
servants will prepare for Osborne, economists say.  Tucker’s Career  Still, Tucker, 53, is favored by bookmaker Paddy Power to
succeed King. The Dublin-based bookmaker is offering 7-4 odds,
meaning a 4-pound ($6.28) wager would return a 7-pound profit.  The philosophy and mathematics graduate from  Cambridge
University  joined the  central bank  in 1980, working as a banking
supervisor and on secondment as a corporate financier. He has
also led the central bank’s Monetary Assessment and Strategy
division.  “Tucker is an immensely credible candidate,” said Richard Barwell, an economist at  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and a
former central bank official. “Not picking him would be a rap
on the knuckles from the Treasury to the Bank of England.”  Neil MacKinnon , global macro strategist at VTB Capital in
London and a former U.K. Treasury official, said the new
financial powers may go against appointing a banker.  “I’m not in favor of poachers turned gamekeepers,” he
said. “A banker may raise the question of a conflict of
interest. The governor has to be seen as independent.”  Turner’s Odds  Among the other possible successors, the FSA’s Turner is
11-4 to succeed King, according to Paddy Power, making him
second favorite. He is a visiting professor at the  London  School
of Economics and has held jobs in banking, public policy and
academia.  Both Green and Varley are at odds of 3-1. A career banker
who spent almost three decades at HSBC, Green presided over one
of the few British banks not to need public funds during the
financial crisis.  Other names that may make the shortlist include  Peter Sands , CEO of Standard Chartered Bank Plc, and John Vickers, a
former Bank of England chief economist and head of the
Independent Commission on Banking, according to economists.  Thatcher Clash  The last time the government named an outsider was in 1982
when Prime Minister  Margaret Thatcher  clashed with central bank
officials after  money supply  surged in the early part of the
decade. With her choice of National Westminster Bank Chairman
Robin Leigh Pemberton as replacement for Gordon Richardson, she
“was taking her revenge” on the bank, historian David Kynaston
wrote in his 2001 book, “The City of London: A Club No More.”  Leigh Pemberton was succeeded in 1993 by  Edward George , who
was then followed by King in 2003. Both were deputy governors
prior to their appointments. Weighing on prospects for a bank
insider this time is a series of clashes between the incumbent
and the Treasury since the start of the financial crisis. Former
Chancellor Alistair Darling wrote in his memoir of his difficult
relations with the “incredibly stubborn” King, whom he
considered not reappointing for a second term.  Darling described his “frustration” over King’s
resistance to put money in the financial system to avoid so-
called moral hazard. Such disputes prompted a delay in the
passage of legislation to empower the Bank of England governor
to exercise new powers over banks, meaning King may not get the
chance to wield it, three people with knowledge of the matter
said last year.  Memory of King  King’s position stuck in the memory of Treasury officials
and has shaped relations since, said a person with knowledge of
the matter. Treasury officials are also concerned about the
amount of power being transferred to the central bank and fear
that tensions would increase, the person said.  Tensions continued into last year when Osborne made public
his desire for the central bank to use its so called
 quantitative-easing program  to buy corporate bonds to encourage
market liquidity and lending in the wider economy.  “The banking system is clearly ill,” said  Stewart Robertson , an economist at Aviva Investors in London. “So
someone who understands the banking world would be received
quite well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  