-- Tougher Ship-Fuel Sulfur Limits Endorsed by EU Parliament Panel
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-02-16T12:06:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/tougher-ship-fuel-sulfur-limits-endorsed-by-eu-parliament-panel.html
A European Parliament panel approved
tougher restrictions on sulfur in ship fuel as part of a
maritime clean-air package that may cost the industry as much as
11 billion euros ($14 billion) a year.  The Parliament’s environment committee voted to set a 0.1
percent sulfur limit for fuel used by passenger ships operating
between European Union ports beginning in 2020. The current EU
limit is 1.5 percent.  The committee also decided to reduce sulfur in fuel used by
all ships in EU waters other than the  Baltic Sea , North Sea and
 English Channel  to 0.5 percent in 2015 and 0.1 percent in 2020
from 3.5 percent at present. In addition, the panel voted to
incorporate into EU law an  International Maritime Organization 
accord that will lower sulfur in fuel used by all ships in the
Baltic Sea, North Sea and English Channel to 0.1 percent in 2015
from as much as 1.5 percent currently.  “By switching to more stringent sulfur limits, it would be
possible to achieve significant health and environmental
benefits,” Satu Hassi, a Finnish member steering the draft
legislation through the 27-nation EU Parliament, said in a
report approved by the environment committee today in
Strasbourg,  France .  The EU is cracking down on sulfur-dioxide emissions blamed
for illnesses including asthma, bronchitis and heart disease and
environmental damage such as the disintegration of buildings.
Ship emissions of sulfur dioxide in EU areas will surpass
European land-based discharges of the pollutant by 2020 without
further action, according to the bloc.  Tougher Standards  The tougher standards would bring health benefits of
between 15 billion euros and 34 billion euros a year, the
European Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, said last July
when proposing the new law. The annual costs for the shipping
industry would range from 2.6 billion euros to 11 billion euros,
according to the commission.  The Parliament environment committee’s vote on the tougher
EU limit for passenger ships and on the IMO standard for all
ships in the Baltic Sea,  North Sea  and English Channel matches
the commission’s proposal.  The committee’s decision on all ships in EU waters other
than the Baltic Sea, North Sea and English Channel goes further
than the commission proposal, which was limited to incorporating
into European law an IMO agreement that will reduce the sulfur
limit to 0.5 percent in 2020.  The European legislation still needs the support of the
full EU Parliament and of the bloc’s national governments. A
possible fast-track process could lead to final EU approval in
the coming months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg, France at   jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  