-- Toyota-Led Quality Gains Seen Giving Auto Industry Lift: Cars
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-02-16T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/toyota-led-quality-gains-seen-giving-auto-industry-lift-cars.html
Automakers are building vehicles
with greater durability as sales rebound, giving them added
power to sustain pricing and avoid the corrosive discounts that
pushed the  predecessors  of  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group
LLC into bankruptcy.  “If your quality scores are improving and demand is
improving, that’s a good story for pricing,” Matthew Stover, a
Boston-based analyst for Guggenheim Securities LLC, said in a
phone interview. “Everybody has adopted the religion.”  Car owners reported the fewest problems with three-year-old
cars and trucks in the 22 years that  Westlake Village ,
California-based J.D. Power & Associates’ has conducted an
annual  dependability survey . While the biggest strides came from
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , which had three brands among the top five,
the gains were widespread, encompassing 25 of 32 makes covered.  The better results may have an added benefit, drawing back
into showrooms the consumers who delayed purchases for years
while the U.S. recovered from the recession that shriveled sales
and sent GM and Chrysler briefly into bankruptcy in 2009.  Automakers are betting that technologies such as touch
screens and voice-recognition systems, plus improved fuel
economy, will also draw demand for new cars even as improved
durability means consumers can hang onto vehicles longer.  Value for Buyers  “When everything in the data is saying you have high-
quality vehicles, that forms an environment where people want
the better wheels,”  Erich Merkle ,  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s sales
analyst, said yesterday in a phone interview. “That allows you
to generate a sense of value in the mind of the consumer.”  GM’s biggest stride was with its luxury make Cadillac,
whose owners reported 20 percent fewer problems per 100 vehicles
from last year’s study. Cadillac improved its score by making
changes to the CTS, one of the brand’s best-selling models, said
Terry Woychowski, the Detroit-based automaker’s vice president
of global quality.  The Cadillac brand vaulted to third in the industry in J.D.
Power’s study, behind Toyota’s Lexus and  Porsche AG (PAH3) ’s namesake.
GM’s mainstream  Chevrolet  also improved with 13 percent fewer
problems per 100 vehicles from a year earlier.  Toyota had the most models lead their respective segments
for the seventh consecutive year in the dependability study,
with eight finishing first in their category.  Lexus  topped the
industry for the first time since 2008 with 86 problems per 100
vehicles. The Toyota City, Japan-based automaker’s Scion brand
also reduced problems per 100 vehicles by a third, the biggest
percentage improvement in this year’s survey.  Confidence Boost  “Boosting confidence among consumers, particularly with a
fleet that is 10.8 years old, is another way to get them off the
fence and into showrooms,”  Bob Carter , Toyota’s group vice
president of U.S. sales, said in an e-mail. The average age of
vehicles in the U.S. in 2011 was 10.8 years, and is up almost
two years from a decade earlier, according to R.L. Polk & Co.  Next year may be a different story when  J.D. Power  surveys
buyers of 2010 models, which were among the 10 million  Toyota
vehicles  recalled to fix defects related to unintended
acceleration and that performed poorly in the market
researcher’s study of new-car quality.  The industry averaged 132 problems per 100 vehicles from
the 2009 model year, down from  151  in last year’s study and  155 
the year before. U.S. automakers narrowed the gap of problems
per 100 vehicles compared with import brands to 13 problems from
18 a year earlier, according to J.D. Power.  Ford’s vehicle owners reported 11 percent fewer problems
per 100 vehicles to 124, the eighth-lowest among in the industry,
and its Lincoln luxury brand placed seventh at 116. The Dearborn,
Michigan-based automaker had three models rank at the top of
their segment, behind only Toyota’s eight.  Chrysler ‘Starved’  The predecessors of  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based Chrysler
and GM filed for bankruptcy in 2009, the model year that J.D.
Power studied for this year’s survey. Chrysler Group’s four
brands -- Chrysler, Dodge, Jeep and Ram -- were the four worst
in the study, even as Jeep problems per 100 vehicles fell by 16
percent, Dodge decreased by 11 percent and Chrysler pared 5
percent.  “They were on the verge of going into bankruptcy, the
vehicles had been pretty well starved of investment for a few
years, so in terms of their model lineup it was a pretty low
point and that’s reflected in their scores,”  David Sargent , J.D.
Power’s vice president of global automotive research, said
yesterday in a phone interview.  Improving Chrysler  New or refreshed models that Chrysler, now majority-owned
by  Fiat SpA (F) , has introduced such as the Jeep Grand Cherokee and
Dodge Durango sport-utility vehicles, will help improve
Chrysler’s performance in the future, Sargent said.  Since Fiat took control of Chrysler, the automaker has
adopted some of its Italian owner’s quality practices, said Tony
Brenders, Chrysler’s director of engineering quality.  The additional testing, which at its peak is being done by
600 contract workers on two shifts, seven days a week, is
catching problems before new vehicles are introduced to the
market that would have otherwise required warranty work for
customers, Brenders said in a Feb. 13 interview.  “We would have shipped cars to dealers that would have
cost us a lot more on warranties than what running this
operation has cost us,” Doug Betts, Chrysler’s senior vice
president of quality, said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Jamie Butters
at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  