-- Palm-Oil Exports From Malaysia Seen Climbing 10% on Increased Asian Demand
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2012-02-16T04:24:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/palm-oil-exports-from-malaysia-seen-climbing-10-on-increased-asian-demand.html
Palm-oil  exports from  Malaysia , the
second-largest producer, may climb as much as 10 percent this
year, expanding faster than local output and helping to drive
down stockpiles and support prices, an industry group forecast.  Exports may climb to a record 19.8 million metric tons from
last year’s 18 million tons as demand in  India  and China gains,
Lee Yeow Chor, chairman of the Malaysian Palm Oil Council, said
in an interview. The price may advance 3.9 percent to 3,300
ringgit ($1,089) per ton in 2012, according to Lee.  Declining  stockpiles  in Malaysia, which have held above 2
million tons since September, may help futures extend a 15
percent rally since October, boosting profits at growers  IOI
Corp. (IOI)  and  Sime Darby Bhd. (SIME)  Credit Suisse Group AG raised its
forecast for 2012 prices 28 percent to 3,200 ringgit on Feb. 1,
saying supplies will be capped, while demand remains strong.  “The market hasn’t completely accounted for the amount of
vegetable-oil demand that’s going to be shifting to palm oil
this year,” said Erin FitzPatrick, an analyst at Rabobank
International in  London . Prices were holding above 3,000 ringgit
on prospects for lower global  soybean oil  and rapeseed oil
output, FitzPatrick said by phone yesterday.  The April-delivery contract fell as much as 1 percent to
3,166 ringgit on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange today before
trading at 3,177 ringgit at 11:55 a.m. in Kuala Lumpur. While
the price is little changed this year, it’s rallied from a 12-
month low of 2,754 ringgit on Oct. 6.  Mistry’s Forecast  Dorab Mistry, director of Godrej International Ltd., has
forecast a  bull market  in palm oil this year as demand growth
outstrips the projected increase in production. The price may
reach 4,000 ringgit by June, Mistry forecast in December.  Global soybean-oil exports may decline to 8.56 million tons
this year from 9.5 million in 2011, according to a forecast from
the  U.S. Department of Agriculture . Months of dryness caused by
the La Nina weather pattern have parched crops in  South America .  Palm-oil stockpiles may drop to “healthy levels” from
April as  shipments from Malaysia  rise on growing production
after the seasonally low-output months of January and February,
Lee said. Global vegetable-oil demand may grow by 3 percent to 5
percent in 2012, said Lee, who’s also executive director at IOI,
Malaysia’s second-largest listed producer.  ‘Reduce the Stocks’  “If we can reduce the stocks to around 1.7 million tons,
it will be a very positive development,” said Lee, 46, who
forecast an increase in shipments of 5 percent to 10 percent.
Growing demand from  China , India and African countries will
offset slowing imports in European countries caused by a
reduction in biofuel usage and sustainability issues, he said.  Malaysian output  will show “moderate” growth of less than
5 percent in 2012 after a “significant” increase last year,
Lee said. Output climbed 11 percent to 18.9 million tons in 2011
from 16.99 million tons a year earlier, according to data from
the Malaysian Palm Oil Board. Production may be 19 million tons
this year as more plantations mature, Plantation Industries and
Commodities Minister Bernard Dompok said on Jan. 19.  Malaysia is promoting new uses for the tropical oil, which
include anti-oxidants such as tocotrienols and phenolics, as
well as furniture made from the wood from the oil palm’s trunk,
said Lee. The  council  promotes market expansion for the edible
oil and its products, according to its website.  Indonesia, the biggest producer, cut the maximum  tax rate 
on crude palm-oil exports last October and imposed lower duties
on processed products to help the local refining industry.  If the export duty in Indonesia is helping its mid-tier
refineries, one strategy for Malaysia is to go further up the
so-called value chain, said Lee. “Those are very competitive”
products, he said, referring to output such as oleochemicals,
food esters and specialty chemicals and fats.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  