-- Pay Fix Means Answering Whether CEO Is Worth $189,000 Per Hour
-- B y   R o g e r   L o w e n s t e i n
-- 2012-02-16T13:20:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/pay-fix-means-answering-whether-ceo-is-worth-189-000-per-hour.html
Chief executive officers are not the
only highly paid people in America. It’s just their misfortune
that, thanks to disclosure rules, they’re among the most
visible.  This proxy season coincides with an electoral cycle in
which  income inequality  has become a populist issue for
candidates in both parties, which means CEO paychecks will be
scrutinized as never before. And what can’t evade discovery is
that, even among the very rich, CEOs have been consistently
overpaid.  By overpaid, I don’t mean merely highly paid. We live in a
capitalist country, and talent is entitled to fetch its price.
But to take just one shining example,  Larry Ellison , CEO of
 Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , has gorged himself on more than $60 million in
stock options every year since 2008, Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its Feb. 20 issue. Even if Ellison did groundbreaking
work and was a juggernaut of management brilliance, abusive
would not be too strong a word.  Fixing CEO pay -- making it more reflective of what
executives are truly worth -- would go a long way toward
restoring America’s faith in business, and in equal treatment.
How, is the $60 million question.  One myth should be cleared at the outset. In 2008, the CEOs
who run companies in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 stock index 
earned, in total, less than 1 percent of what everyone who’s a
1 percenter earned. So it’s unfair to blame CEOs alone for
fostering inequality.  Movie Stars  Defenders of the system cite such data to advance a larger
claim. Pay for public company CEOs has risen, they say, for the
same reasons it has for movie stars, real estate moguls, and
private entrepreneurs: Globalization and technology has created
a wider market.  Even President Obama, no friend of the very rich,
acknowledged in December that “over the last few decades, huge
advances in technology have allowed businesses to do more with
less, and made it easier for them to set up shop and hire
workers anywhere in the world.” Read thoughtfully, that implies
that 1 percenters are taking home more because, in an economic
sense, they’re earning it.  “The system has worked,” says  Steven Kaplan , a professor at
Chicago Booth School of Business. From 2000 to 2010,
compensation for the median CEO in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index rose from $5 million to just over $8 million. (Those
figures represent actual dollars received; when calculated by
the value of options at the time of grants, pay over the period
began and ended at $8 million.)  Pay for Performance  Kaplan asserts that CEOs are “paid for performance.” In a
literal sense this is true; CEOs did earn more when their
companies succeeded. But they earned so much, as well, for
ordinary and unquantifiable performance as to undermine the
intended effect.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s new CEO,  Tim Cook , may turn out to
be every bit as good as  Steve Jobs , or he may not. Apple’s board
did not wait to find out. Cook got -- for his very first year as
CEO -- a package worth $378 million.  The real explanation for sky-high pay lies in the “agency”
problem. Agents exploit their role as intermediaries. They
thrive in imperfect markets in which pay scales do not respond
quickly, if at all, to results. Hedge fund managers who deliver
mediocre returns get rich thanks to their role as agents.
Mortgage traders employed by banks got huge bonuses in the fat
years but ducked responsibility for losses; they got a free ride
on their employers’ capital.  Warped Market  So do some CEOs, though certainly not all.  Steve Ballmer  of
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , for example, gets no options and total
compensation of $1.4 million. But all CEOs compete in a warped
marketplace. How often does the head of Company X leave for
Company Y? How often does a corporation sack its head? It
happens more than it used to, but the market remains inflexible,
and firings are rarely for reasons of expense.  Consider that  Philippe Dauman , the chief executive of
Viacom Inc., speared $84 million in 2010, and that Eugene
Isenberg of  Nabors Industries Ltd. (NBR)  was awarded $100 million last
year for agreeing to relinquish his job. These may be anomalies,
but it’s hard to imagine them happening in any rational
marketplace.  The agency problem in the corner office is as old as public
ownership, though it was most famously brought to light in the
1980s by  Harvard Business School  professor Michael Jensen, who
observed that CEOs, unlike private entrepreneurs, owned little
stock and had scant stake in the common corporate purpose.  Options Shower  In a 1989 Harvard Business Review article, “Eclipse of the
Public Corporation,” Jensen suggested that public shareholders
had become passé. Of course, there was nowhere near enough
private capital to replace the mass of public investors. For the
public companies that remained un-eclipsed, Jensen reckoned, the
next best thing would be to shower  stock options  on the
executives, endowing them with the same incentives as their
peers at private firms.  If Harvard Business School thought stock options were good
for America, corporate executives were perfectly willing to take
them. “Pay for performance” was the mantra, but in the aftermath
of the dot-com bubble it became abundantly clear, not least to
Jensen, that options hadn’t performed as hoped.  Executives who were shielded from losses exposed their
firms to excessive risk -- Bernie Ebbers at WorldCom Inc. and
Ken Lay at Enron Corp. being just two examples. When bucketfuls
of options were awarded year after year, executives had nothing
to lose.  Pandit’s Pay  In 2008, after promoting Vikram Pandit to CEO,  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  gave him $29 million in stock awards plus $8.4 million in
options. Alas, the stock cratered. Compensating Pandit (and not,
of course, the public shareholders) for this bad luck, Citi’s
directors last year agreed to 500,000 more stock options and a
$10 million stock award. These will reward Pandit for earning
back the capital that, under his tenure, Citigroup had
previously lost.  The problem is systemic. From 2000 to 2010, shareholders
lost 14 percent playing the  S&P 500 . But CEOs kept raking it in.  Jensen, still looking for solutions, has only gotten more
outraged. In a blistering new paper, “CEO Bonus Plans: And How
to Fix Them,” co-authored with Kevin Murphy, he observes that
“almost all CEO and executive bonus plans have serious design
flaws.”  The pair find, across the board, that bonuses are ripe for
gaming and executives benefit from too much upside with little
downside. Jensen and Murphy propose that guaranteed salaries be
lower and bonuses higher, with bonuses deposited into a notional
bonus “bank” and paid out over time. Poor performance would
reduce the executive’s “deposit.”  Overlapping Incentives  That’s a fine start, but why stop there? It also makes
sense to reduce the number of overlapping incentives. (Oracle
paid its new president,  Mark Hurd , in six different ways in
2011, totaling $78 million.) As Murphy says, “It was never our
intention that companies would layer options for free on top of
all these other forms of pay.” Stock grants and options should
be dished out only at far less frequent intervals. Otherwise,
execs get a bump merely for recouping prior losses.  Also, huge exit packages, which make a mockery of Kaplan’s
claim that failed CEOs suffer real punishment, have to be
curbed. The best way to ensure such reforms is for Congress to
legislate binding shareholder votes on any package worth more
than, say, $5 million. Let shareholders be their own agents.  ( Roger Lowenstein  is the author of “When Genius Failed: The
Rise and Fall of Long-Term Capital Management.” He is an outside
director with the Sequoia Fund. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Roger Lowenstein at  elrogl@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Josh Tyrangiel in New York at  