-- Congress Conquers Extremes in $145 Billion Payroll Tax Cut Deal
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-02-17T05:01:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/payroll-tax-cut-agreement-includes-unemployment-health-benefit-changes.html
The $145 billion payroll tax cut
deal is heading toward passage in the  U.S. Congress  as soon as
today with bipartisan support, including from many lawmakers who
will be voting for ideas they oppose.  “This is real money that will make a real difference in
people’s lives,” President  Barack Obama  said in a statement last
night. “I will sign it into law” as soon as Congress passes it.  The agreement would extend the expiring tax cut,
 unemployment benefits  and doctors’ Medicare reimbursements
through 2012. It contains health-care cuts opposed by Democrats
and an increase in the  budget deficit  disliked by Republicans,
and those policies already have prompted many lawmakers to
announce their opposition.  “If there’s an agreement with the other side, then there’s
going to be enough votes,” said Representative Tom Cole, an
Oklahoma Republican. Despite objections to some parts of the
bill, he said, “I don’t think it’s going to change the
outcome.”  Negotiators led by Democratic Senator  Max Baucus  and
Republican Representative  Dave Camp  reached an agreement early
yesterday after Obama intervened to reassure Democrats wary of
the effects of pension changes on federal employees. The deal
ended a months-long stalemate over the payroll tax cut and the
other expiring provisions.  In announcing the agreement, Democrats claimed victory for
avoiding cuts to Medicare beneficiaries and for getting
Republicans to drop demands that the bill be fully financed with
spending cuts elsewhere in the budget. The House planned to
complete action on the bill by midday.  Emergency Benefits  Republicans said they won by reducing emergency
unemployment benefits to a maximum of 73 weeks from a maximum of
99 weeks and preventing Democrats from raising taxes.  “You don’t have all the leverage, so you have to work with
what you have,” said Representative Greg Walden, an Oregon
Republican who helped negotiate the agreement.  The bill would extend a two-percentage-point cut in the
 payroll tax  funding  Social Security (FFSOSS)  through 2012. Employees
would pay 4.2 percent of their wages, down from the typical 6.2
percent, for all wages up to $110,100.  The tax break would cost $93.2 billion, which would be
borrowed and then transferred from the general fund to Social
Security. The cost of the measure’s other provisions would be
covered by spending cuts and other changes, and the bill would
increase the deficit by $89 billion over the next decade,
according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  ‘Fair Agreement’  House Speaker  John Boehner  called the deal a “fair
agreement” and said he would support it.  “But let’s be honest: This is an economic relief package,
not a bill that’s going to grow the economy and create jobs,”
said Boehner, an Ohio Republican, at a news conference.  Some lawmakers said yesterday that they will vote against
the proposal, and opposition from both parties means that  House
Republicans  and Senate Democrats, who hold the majorities, will
need votes from members of the other party in their chamber.  “We’re going to need some significant Republican votes,”
Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New York , the chamber’s No. 3
Democrat, told reporters yesterday.  Senator  Mark Warner , a Virginia Democrat, said in an
interview he had “grave concerns” about adding the cost of the
payroll tax cut to the budget deficit.  ‘Political Candy’  “Now that we’ve handed out this political candy, it’s
going to be hard to take it back,” said Senator Jim DeMint, a
South Carolina Republican, in an interview. He said he plans to
vote no.  The $30 billion unemployment extension would gradually
reduce the number of weeks that recipients can receive benefits,
down from the current 99 weeks, according to separate summaries
provided by Democrats and Republicans on the House Ways and
Means Committee. By the end of the year, most states would offer
maximum benefits for 63 weeks while people in high-unemployment
states would be eligible for 73 weeks of benefits.  According to summaries of the legislation, the bill would
make other changes to unemployment policy, such as allowing
states to require drug tests of some benefit recipients.  Representative  Sander Levin  of  Michigan , the top Democrat
on the Ways and Means Committee, said in a statement he was
pleased the agreement wouldn’t require recipients to seek high-
school equivalency degrees.  “It is far from perfect, but it does maintain vital
benefits for those who have lost their jobs through no fault of
their own,” Levin said.  Spending Cuts  The bill includes revenue-raising provisions and spending
cuts to cover the cost of the unemployment and Medicare
extensions.  These include the $15 billion auction of a portion of the
wireless spectrum and a $15 billion requirement that new
civilian federal employees and members of Congress pay more for
their pensions. The pension change would require employees hired
starting in 2013 to contribute an additional 2.3 percentage
points of their wages toward their pensions, according to the
Finance Committee.  The legislation doesn’t include higher fees that  Fannie Mae 
and Freddie Mac charge to lenders for new mortgages. Lawmakers
had been discussing that idea.  Obama intervened in the final negotiations, telephoning
Democratic Senator  Ben Cardin  and Representative Chris  Van Hollen , both of  Maryland , to urge them to support the agreement
although it would require newly hired federal workers to pay
more for pensions.  Cardin said Obama assured him that federal employees’
salaries and benefits wouldn’t be a routine source of spending
cuts for future legislation. Many federal workers live in his
district outside  Washington .  ‘Pretty Strong’  “He understands my concern about the federal workforce and
how I want to make sure that we don’t repeat what’s going on in
this conference as we go through this Congress,” Cardin said in
an interview.  Cardin said he decided to sign the agreement after speaking
with Obama and securing a change to exempt current federal
workers from the increased contribution requirement. Obama spoke
with Van Hollen about the pension requirement, according to a
Democratic aide with knowledge of the conversation who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the discussions were private.  Hospitals will bear much of the cost of the bill. They will
lose about $11 billion in government payments for bad debt,
incurred when Medicare patients don’t make co-payments or pay
deductibles, and for charity care.  Clinical laboratories such as Laboratory Corporation of
America Holdings will take a 2 percent Medicare payment cut in
2013, according to congressional documents.  Louisiana will surrender about $2.5 billion the state was
set to collect in higher payments for its Medicaid program, a
policy enacted in 2010 as part of the health-care overhaul at
the behest of Senator Mary Landrieu, a Louisiana Democrat.  The agreement also would trim $5 billion over a decade from
a $2 billion-a-year fund created by the 2010 health-care law to
support community preventive and public health-care programs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  