-- Pennsylvania Capital Taps Guernsey’s to Auction Wild West Relics
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-02-16T18:50:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/pennsylvania-capital-taps-guernsey-s-to-auction-wild-west-relics.html
Harrisburg (9661MF) , the Pennsylvania capital
under state receivership, picked  Guernsey’s , a  New York  auction
house, to sell more than 8,000 relics including items from the
Wild West era.  “This is a wonderful collection, covering at least 10
categories of American history, and it will thrill collectors
and historians,” Arlan Ettinger, Guernsey’s chief executive
officer, said today in a statement from Mayor  Linda Thompson .  A series of auctions will be held in coming months,
Thompson said, without being more specific. She said a briefing
to outline the process in more detail will be held soon.  The items, billed as the Harrisburg Historic Artifact
Collection, will be marketed in New York, Harrisburg and on the
Internet, according to the statement from Thompson. The city of
about 49,500 residents was driven into insolvency by financing
an overhaul and expansion of a municipal incinerator that
doesn’t generate enough revenue to cover its debt.  Guernsey’s was selected after the city invited 25 firms,
including Christie’s Inc. and  Sotheby’s (BID) , to submit auction
proposals last year.  Former Mayor Stephen Reed, 62, who served in the office for
28 years until 2010, collected the trove over decades at a cost
of about $8 million. His plan for a museum to memorialize the
American West never came to fruition.  In 2007, the city sold about 3,000 artifacts, bringing in
about $2 million, said Robert Philbin, a Thompson spokesman.  The collection includes items from Colonial times to the
 Vietnam War , he said, such as a printing press and wanted
posters featuring the outlaw Jesse James.  Harrisburg’s receiver, David Unkovic, has requested bids
for the city’s parking system, the incinerator, and operations
of the water and sewer utilities in his recovery plan, which
will be reviewed by a state court on March 1. He also wants to
raise taxes and fees and squeeze concessions from labor unions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  