-- Pernod to Be ‘Regular Bond Issuer,’ Maintain Investment Grade
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-02-16T16:07:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/pernod-to-be-regular-bond-issuer-maintain-investment-grade.html
Pernod Ricard SA, (RI)   France ’s biggest
distiller, said it aims to maintain its newfound investment-
grade credit status and will focus on paying down debt and
expanding without recourse to acquisitions.  “Investment grade is a priority,” Chief Financial Officer
Gilles Bogaert said today in an interview in Paris after Pernod
reported first-half profit that beat estimates and raised its
annual forecast. “We are a financially disciplined company.”  Standard & Poor’s  boosted Pernod’s  credit rating  one step
to BBB-, the lowest investment-grade ranking, in October after
Moody’s Investors Service did the same a month earlier, raising
the rating to Baa3. Pernod sold $2.5 billion of debt in January,
its second dollar-based sale after the upgrade, as it seeks to
pay back loans due next year and extend  debt maturity .  The maker of Absolut vodka will be a “regular bond
issuer,” seeking financing in euros and dollars, Bogaert said.
Pernod has increased the amount of debt it has in bonds compared
with loans. Conditions are “very good” for selling bonds, even
though the company “needs to pick the right windows,” he said.  Pernod isn’t “targeting to be a single-A company,”
Bogaert said. “That is not a strategic objective.”  Pernod, which said today it had  debt  of 9.4 billion euros
($12.3 billion) at the end of 2011, expects net debt to fall to
3.9 times adjusted earnings before interest, taxation,
depreciation and amortization at the end of its financial year
in June, compared with 4.4 times 12 months earlier.  Refinancing Need  About 77 percent of Pernod’s borrowings are in bonds,
though it intends to keep a proportion of bank debt. European
banks’ loan capacity has shrunk, especially for debt in dollars,
Bogaert said. The company aims for a new syndicated loan with
banks “in the near future,” he said. The Paris-based company
needs to refinance 1.5 billion euros of bank debt before 2013.  Bogaert said Pernod is “open to some tactical moves if
there’s an opportunity” for  acquisitions , although the company
doesn’t have “strategic holes.”  “Don’t expect anything massive today” in terms of mergers
and acquisitions, he said. “We are focused on organic growth.”  He declined to comment on whether the company may be
considering a bid for all or part of  Beam Inc.’s (BEAM)  liquor brands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  