-- Pernod Raises Annual Forecast After Gains
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-02-16T09:07:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/pernod-raises-annual-forecast-after-first-half-profit-gains.html
Pernod Ricard SA (RI) ,  France ’s biggest
distiller, reported first-half profit that beat estimates and
raised its annual earnings forecast as Chinese consumers
increased purchases of spirits such as Martell cognac.  Growth in organic operating profit for the fiscal year
ending in June will be “close to” 8 percent, the Paris-based
maker of Absolut vodka said today in a statement. It had
previously forecast growth of about 6 percent. Profit on that
basis rose 17 percent in the first half, compared with the
median estimate of 10 analysts for a 12 percent increase.  “They did what the market wanted them to by raising the
guidance,” Anthony Bucalo, an analyst at  Banco Santander  in
 London , said today. “It’s a great set of results.”  Seven out of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News before
the results said they expected Pernod to raise the profit
forecast amid strong sales of spirits in  China . The distiller is
looking to countries outside its home market of France to drive
sales growth as markets in Europe weaken.  Pernod fell 0.9 percent to 77.07 euros at 10:05 a.m. in
Paris trading as France’s benchmark CAC Index slid 0.7 percent.
Before today, the shares had risen 8.5 percent this year.  “The stock’s had such a great run that I imagine it’ll
fall a bit,” Bucalo said before the market opened. “You get a
lot of ‘travel and arrive’ on shares that have done this well.”  Chinese New Year  Pernod’s first-half organic revenue rose 11 percent,
compared with estimates for a 10.4 percent increase. The company
reports sales and profit on a so-called organic basis, which
excludes acquisitions, one-time items and currency fluctuations.  Total revenue rose 7.8 percent to 4.6 billion euros ($6
billion), aided by purchases of drinks including Royal Salute in
 emerging markets , the liquor maker said.  Pernod, which also makes Ricard aniseed liquor, said sales
benefited from the earlier timing of Chinese New Year, which
brought forward some purchases for the festival from the third
quarter to the second. Suppliers and drinkers in France also
stocked up at the end of 2011 ahead of a tax increase from Jan.
1 this year. Organic sales excluding the effect of the early
French purchasing rose 8 percent.  The results “are a confirmation of the relevance of our
strategy,” said Chief Executive Officer Pierre Pringuet.  Promotional Spending  Alcohol sales in France fell 7 percent by volume and 4
percent in value terms in January, Pringuet said, citing Nielsen
data. That was “very much in line with our own forecasts,” he
said. Pernod expects tax increases to shrink the French alcohol
market by 7 percent to 8 percent this year, he said.  Promotional spending was “stable” as a percentage of
sales at 17.7 percent in the first half, excluding the effect of
the French pre-buying. Gross margin, a measure of profitability,
rose as the company sold more expensive varieties of its Martell
cognac and Chivas Regal whisky. Pernod raised prices by more
than 2 percent on average for its top 14 brands, it said.  The company said today it will cut borrowing to about 3.9
times adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization by the end of June. It had expected borrowing on
the same basis of about 4 times adjusted Ebitda. Chief Executive
Officer Pierre Pringuet said last year he did not anticipate any
“transformational acquisitions” this fiscal year or next.  Credit Rating  Standard & Poor’s  boosted Pernod’s credit rating one step
to the lowest investment-grade ranking in October after Moody’s
Investors Service did the same a month earlier. Gilles Bogaert,
managing director of finance, said in October that the company
aimed to retain investment-grade status. Pernod sold $2.5
billion of debt in January, its second dollar-based sale in
three months, as it seeks to pay back loans.  Net debt  as of Dec. 31 was 9.4 billion euros.  Pernod said today it expects the favorable effects of
French pre-buying and an earlier Chinese New Year to reverse in
the second half, and it sees “depressed consumption” in France
because of price increases. Emerging-market sales will continue
to be strong as western and southern  Europe  struggle, it said.
The distiller predicted “gradual improvement” in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  