-- Philadelphia-Area Manufacturing Beats Forecasts as Fed Index Rises to 10.2
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-02-16T15:17:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/philadelphia-area-manufacturing-beats-forecasts-as-fed-index-rises-to-10-2.html
Manufacturing in the Philadelphia
region expanded in February at the fastest pace in four months
as orders and sales picked up.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
 index  increased to 10.2, higher than projected, from 7.3 last
month. Economists forecast the gauge would rise to 9, according
to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. Readings
greater than zero signal expansion in the area covering eastern
 Pennsylvania , southern  New Jersey  and  Delaware .  Production is poised to keep expanding as companies rebuild
inventories and invest in new equipment. Faster job creation
that helps drive bigger increases in  consumer spending  may
further propel the industry.  “Manufacturing is still receiving good demand both
domestically and from overseas,”  David Semmens , a U.S.
economist at Standard Chartered Bank in  London , said before the
report. “You’re seeing stronger demand in the automobiles
sector and reasonable demand for high-end capital goods.”  Estimates from the 58 economists surveyed for the
Philadelphia Fed index ranged from 7.5 to 12.5.  Stocks advanced, following a two-day decline in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as reports showing a stronger
economy outweighed concern about a Greek debt default. The  S&P
500  rose 0.2 percent to 1,345.65 at 10:14 a.m. in New York.  Today’s Figures  Data today showed improvement in the labor and housing
markets as well as consumer sentiment. First-time  jobless claims 
unexpectedly declined 13,000 last week to 348,000, the fewest
since March 2008, Labor Department figures showed. Housing
starts climbed 1.5 percent to a 699,000 annual rate in January,
the Commerce Department said.  Consumer confidence  increased for a fourth straight week to
reach the highest level in a year as more households believe the
economy is improving, other figures showed.  The Bloomberg  Consumer Comfort (COMFCOMF)  Index rose to minus 39.8 in
the period ended Feb. 14 from minus 41.7 the previous week. It
marked just the third time since April 2008 that the gauge has
climbed above minus 40, a reading consistent with recessions or
their aftermath. The monthly expectations gauge climbed to minus
7 in February, also a 12-month high.  The Philadelphia Fed’s  new orders  measure rose to 11.7. the
highest since April, from 6.9 in January, while the shipments
gauge increased to 15, also a 10-month high, from 5.7 in
January.  Longer Hours  A measure of the average workweek jumped to 10.1 in
February, the highest since April, from 5 in the prior month.
The  employment index  decreased to 1.1, the lowest since August,
from a reading last month of 11.6.  Individual measures in the index don’t contribute to the
headline reading, so some economists consider it a gauge of
sentiment among manufacturers.  Other measures indicate manufacturers are powering through
the threat of weaker demand from Europe and  China . Output at
U.S. factories  increased  in January as automobile and business
equipment production picked up, Federal Reserve figures showed
yesterday.  New York-area manufacturing  grew  in February at the fastest
pace since June 2010, according to the Federal Reserve Bank of
New York’s so-called Empire State Index released yesterday.  Since November, “we’ve actually seen some improvements in
backlogs,” Thomas Kadien, senior vice president of consumer
packaging at International Paper Co., said on a Feb. 2
conference call. “For at least the last three weeks, we’ve felt
very good about the demand. From a North American perspective,
the softness is behind us, and we feel much better about the
first quarter.”  Economists monitor Philadelphia and  New York  Fed factory
reports for clues about the Institute for Supply Management
national figures on manufacturing. The ISM will release its
report on March 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  