-- Picasso Ticked Off Churchill, Fired Up Bacon, Tate Shows: Review
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2012-02-16T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/picasso-ticked-off-churchill-fired-up-bacon-tate-shows-martin-gayford.html
If he happened to meet Picasso
walking down the road,  Winston Churchill  once disclosed, he
planned to give him a kick in the rear.  This encounter never occurred. Churchill’s attitude,
though, was representative of one British response to the great
Spanish artist. He was the modernist conservatives loved to
hate: The novelist Evelyn Waugh was in the habit of ending
letters with the declaration, “Death to Picasso!”  On the other hand, as a new exhibition, “Picasso and
Modern British Art,” at  Tate Britain  in London, makes clear,
the fury of reactionaries was only one part of the story. The
other was the idolization of Picasso by the local British avant-
garde. Consequently, a good deal of the exhibition is devoted to
documenting attempts, more or less successful, to imitate some
aspect of Picasso’s mighty oeuvre.  The result is nicely executed, and contains plenty of fine
Picassos. It isn’t kind to his U.K. followers. As you walk
around, it becomes clear that Picasso’s work was a banquet of
diverse idioms and moods, from which most of his local admirers
each selected a portion that suited their own sensibility.  Some made better use of this inspiration than others.
 Francis Bacon  got close to the sheer ferocity of his chosen type
of Picasso from the late 1920s and 1930s. Picasso, Bacon said,
was “nearer to what I feel about the psyche of our time” than
any other artist. On the other hand, Ben Nicholson took
Picasso’s late Cubist still lifes, and turned them into
something tranquil, charming and not at all ferocious.  Odd Nudes  Henry Moore ’s point of departure was the monumental
classicism of Picasso’s women from the early 1920s and the
strange nudes, like primitive sea creatures, that he produced a
little later. Moore, however, characteristically transformed
these into something calmer and duller.  Poor Duncan Grant, the favored painter of the Bloomsbury
Group, was hopeless in his efforts to follow the Picasso of the
pre-1914 era, except when it came to interior decoration. His
Cubist-inspired “Design for a Firescreen” (c.1912) would do
quite well for that purpose. Grant’s contemporary the Vorticist
Wyndham Lewis looks far better in this selection.  The relationship between Britain and Picasso was
asymmetrical. Picasso was important to British modernists,
though Britain can’t have been all that important to him. He
came to the country just twice.  Soviet Congress  Picasso spent the summer of 1919 in  London , working on
Diaghilev’s production of a ballet, “The Three-Cornered Hat.”
Drawings, designs and some (recreated) costumes make up a nice
section in the exhibition. Picasso didn’t return until 1950,
when he arrived as a delegate to a Soviet-inspired World Peace
Congress in Sheffield.  The main fruit of this brief visit was a drawing, included
in the exhibition, which Picasso made directly on the living-
room wall of a scientist and communist, J.D. Bernal, during a
party. Though not a great work, it supports a claim once made by
a friend of mine that Picasso could get further in an afternoon
than Moore did in his entire career.  There were loyal friends of Picasso in Britain, such as
Roland Penrose, thanks to whom the Tate owns “The Three
Dancers” (1925), which the artist considered one of his two
greatest works (the other being “Les Demoiselles d’Avignon”).  When Penrose collected the picture from his studio in 1965,
Picasso expressed admiration for Churchill who had recently
died. “He saved  England  … and more than that he saved us all.”
Presumably, he had never heard of Churchill’s little plan.  “Picasso and Modern British Art” is at Tate Britain,
London, through July 15. Information:  http://www.tate.org.uk .  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/martingayford .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 