-- Pick n Pay Urged to Break Ackerman Control Amid Hunt for CEO
-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a   a n d   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2012-02-16T15:33:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/pick-n-pay-urged-to-break-ackerman-control-amid-hunt-for-chief.html
Pick n Pay Stores Ltd. ’s Ackerman
family should loosen its hold over  South Africa ’s second-largest
supermarket chain if a new chief executive officer is to ward
off competition from  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , analysts and fund
managers said.  The Ackerman family  controls  Pick n Pay through its
majority stake in  Pick n Pay Holdings Ltd . Gareth Ackerman was
appointed Pick n Pay chairman in March 2010, succeeding his
father Raymond, 80, who founded the retailer in 1967 and listed
it on the  Johannesburg Stock Exchange  a year later. The Cape
Town-based company said Feb. 8 that Nick Badminton, 50, will
quit after 32 years with the company, five of those as CEO.  “This structure isn’t working,” Syd Vianello, an analyst
at Johannesburg-based  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) ’s securities unit, said
in an interview yesterday. Vianello, who rates the stock a
“sell,” tops  return rankings  for his recommendations on Pick n
Pay and  Clicks Group Ltd. (CLS) , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The new CEO will “have to be a person that can work
with the family.”  Pick n Pay has lost market share to larger rival  Shoprite
Holdings Ltd. (SHP) , while  Massmart Holdings Ltd. (MSM)  plans to start
selling food after being bought by Bentonville, Arkansas-based
 Wal-Mart Stores  last year. The stock has declined 4.7 percent
over the past 12 months, compared with a 42 percent rally by
Shoprite and Massmart’s 22 percent increase. The stock fell 1.1
percent to 43.19 rand as of the close in Johannesburg today,
giving the company a market value of 20.7 billion rand ($2.7
billion).  Profit Decline  Annual net Income at Pick n Pay has dropped twice over the
past five years to below 2008 levels while earnings at Shoprite
have jumped more than fourfold since 2004. In the year through
Feb. 2011, Pick n Pay paid out 75 percent of earnings in
dividends while Shoprite paid out 50 percent of profit to
shareholders for the year through June, according to Bloomberg
calculations.  “Pick n Pay’s dividend policy has been unhealthy to the
point where the company has struggled to fund normal growth,”
Vianello said.  “There’s no plan at this stage to change the structure,”
Gareth Ackerman said by phone on Feb. 13. Raymond Ackerman has
said the company is run to the benefit of all shareholders and
that his family’s long-term commitment to Pick n Pay has
benefited the company.  The Public Investment Corp., the largest shareholder after
the Ackermans with a 10.2 percent stake, is in talks with the
grocer over corporate governance, PIC Chief Investment Officer
Dan Matjila said in an e-mailed response to questions. There are
no other shareholders with a stake above 2 percent in Pick n Pay
Stores, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  The Pretoria-based PIC, the largest single investor on the
Johannesburg bourse, manages 1 trillion rand on behalf of the
Government Employees Pension Fund.  Outsider Needed  Pick n Pay needs to find an outsider with international
experience, said Evan Walker, a fund manager at  Momentum Asset
Management  in Johannesburg. Momentum, with 180 billion rand in
assets, owns Pick n Pay shares, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The CEO search will include internal and external
candidates, both local and international, the company said in a
statement on Feb 8.  “We need someone who understands the
change in global retailing,” said Gareth Ackerman, who will
lead strategy until a replacement CEO is appointed.  “There is a risk that a new CEO may say the turnaround
needs to take a different path,” said Theresa Heath, a retail
analyst at Stanlib Asset Management, which has 341 billion rand
in assets and owns Pick n Pay stock.  While Shoprite is also controlled through  voting rights 
held by its chairman, Christo Wiese, the Cape town-based company
differs from Pick n Pay in that Wiese has said he is not
involved in daily operations.  African Expansion  Shoprite, with 1,520 stores, focused its expansion outside
South Africa, and has 212 outlets in 15 other African countries,
including  Nigeria . Massmart has 26 stores in 11 other African
nations. Pick n Pay, which last year sold its money losing
Franklins supermarket chain in  Australia , has 51 stores in
 Zimbabwe , three in Zambia, 17 in  Namibia , 12 in Botswana, seven
in Swaziland, one in  Lesotho  and two in Mauritius and
 Mozambique , according to its  website .  “It is a combination of leadership issues that in the end
makes the difference,” David Couldridge, a fund manager at
 Element Investment Managers  in  Cape Town , said by phone
yesterday. Element, which has more than 20 billion rand in
assets and doesn’t own shares in Pick n Pay.  The grocer’s management would’ve been more pro-active in
arresting Pick n Pay’s underperformance had the Ackermans not
had the “perpetual assurance” of retaining control, said
Couldridge. A flat, more simple holding arrangement in which all
shareholders have the same participation “would help focus
minds on creating value.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net ;
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  