-- Poland Needs Additional Steps to Meet Deficit Goal, S&P Says
-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 2012-02-17T17:00:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/poland-needs-additional-measures-to-meet-deficit-goal-s-p-says.html
Poland will have to take additional
measures if it wants to cut the  budget deficit  to 3 percent of
gross domestic product this year,  Standard & Poor’s  said.  The government’s current plans would narrow the shortfall
to about 3.4 percent this year and to almost 3 percent in 2013,
S&P analyst Leila Butt said in a Feb. 15 phone interview.  “We’re projecting a gradual fall in the fiscal deficit,”
Butt said. “The government would need to take further measures
if it wants to bring down the deficit more rapidly.”  Prime Minister Donald Tusk, the first incumbent government
leader in Poland to win a second consecutive term since the
collapse of communism 22 years ago, has pledged to increase
levies, reduce tax incentives and cut pension privileges to
narrow the deficit to within the European Union’s 3 percent
limit and ensure public debt remains below a legal threshold of
55 percent of GDP.  The zloty slumped 11 percent against the euro last year as
uncertainty over the future of the euro area deepened,
increasing the level of  Poland ’s foreign-denominated debt. The
extra yield that investors demand to hold Polish 10-year bonds
over German same-maturity debt rose to 369 basis points
yesterday, the highest this month. The currency has strengthened
6.3 percent this year.  Growth Outlook  Poland’s economy will expand 2 percent in 2012, according
to S&P, compared with the government’s 2.5 percent forecast.
Expansion will accelerate in the coming years “in line with
higher growth in the euro region,” Butt said, reaching between
3 percent and 3.5 percent next year and “a bit higher” in
2014, she said.  Euro-area finance ministers are still debating how to solve
Greece’s debt woes as a March 20 bond redemption date edges
closer and recriminations fly between politicians in  Greece  and
the northern European countries funding a 130 billion-euro ($170
billion) rescue package for the Mediterranean country.  Greece should exit the euro if it’s not willing or able to
meet its pledges to cut spending,  Horst Seehofer , who heads
 Germany ’s Christian Social Union and became interim president
today after the resignation of  Christian Wulff , said in an
interview with Spiegel magazine.  Poland’s budget gap was probably not more than 5.6 percent
of GDP last year after reaching 7.8 percent in 2010, Finance
Minister  Jacek Rostowski  said Feb. 15. The country will succeed
in trimming this year’s shortfall to 3 percent if growth meets
the government’s forecast, Jan Krzysztof Bielecki, who heads
Tusk’s  Council of Economic Advisers , said in a Feb. 14
interview, adding the estimate was “very conservative.”  Industrial Output  Industrial output rose 9 percent in January from a year
earlier, the most in 11 months, the  Central Statistical Office 
reported today. It suggests Poland’s country’s economy isn’t
slowing as much as initially expected, according to Grzegorz Maliszewski, chief economist at Bank Millennium SA in Warsaw.  The Polish currency strengthened to 4.1898 as of 17:09 p.m.
in Warsaw from 4.2108 yesterday. The yield on the five-year bond
maturing 2016 dropped to 4.988 percent, the lowest in almost
four months.  Polish government measures to narrow the general government
deficit total 40.7 billion zloty ($12.6 billion) or 2.6 percent
of GDP in 2009-2012, the  Finance Ministry  said in an e-mailed
response to questions last month. The figure includes savings
made by pension-law changes that cut payroll contributions to
privately managed pension funds, channeling the money instead
into the state retirement system.  Drag on Consumption  “Internally, the government is tightening fiscal policy
and that will weigh on household consumption,” Butt said.
“Private consumption will very much depend on prospects for
employment growth and wages as well.”  For S&P to consider raising Poland’s credit rating, the
government would have to prove it is introducing the legal
changes Tusk outlined after last October’s general election,
Butt said.  “If the government presses ahead with structural reform
and fiscal consolidation, we could revise the outlook to
positive,” she said. “A change in our rating assessment really
depends on what legislation is passed, and then very much on its
implementation.” S&P has an A- rating on Polish debt, three
notches below neighboring  Czech Republic  and four steps above
 Hungary .  Job growth at Polish companies employing more than nine
workers slowed to 0.9 percent in January, Poland’s statistics
office reported yesterday, the smallest increase since May 2010.
According to S&P, there will be a drop in public spending after
this year’s European soccer championships, to be held in Poland
and Ukraine. An increase in private investment to make up the
difference “is dependent on external factors,” Butt said.  External Vulnerability  “Poland has benefited from the fact that the economy is
fairly broadly based and so less reliant on exports than the
Czech Republic, for example,” Butt said. “All the same, there
is a vulnerability coming from external factors, first and
foremost the trade links with the euro region.”  Another potential danger for the Polish economy may be from
its banks, S&P said. Western lenders, some of which are
struggling to meet capital and liquidity requirements, control
about 75 percent of eastern  Europe ’s financial industry.  “There is high foreign ownership of Polish banks, and
there is a risk that if parent banks find themselves in a
situation in which it’s hard to find liquidity, or they need to
recapitalize, they may scale back in Poland,” Butt said. Still,
she added, western banks will probably “keep exposure to Poland
because it’s a dynamic economy and there are many opportunities
still to be exploited.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Andrusz at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  