-- Postal Service Seeks 50-Cent Stamps to Prevent ‘Taxpayer Burden’
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-02-17T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/postal-service-seeks-a-new-50-cent-stamp.html
The U.S.  Postal Service  wants
Congress to help it raise the price of a first-class stamp to 50
cents, an 11 percent increase, as part of its strategy to avoid
annual losses as high as $18.2 billion by 2015.  The Washington-based agency included the increase in a
five-year business plan released yesterday. In a separate letter
to Congress, the service said U.S. taxpayers will have to cover
losses if lawmakers don’t help it cut costs.  The letter and business plan reiterated proposals to cut
billions of dollars a year in costs by ending Saturday mail
delivery, closing facilities and pulling out of a health-care
program for federal workers to manage its own benefits. Congress
would have to approve some of those changes.  “In the context of the tremendous operating challenges
facing the USPS, we believe the plan is comprehensive and
balanced,” Lloyd Sprung, senior managing director of  Evercore
Partners Inc. (EVR) , told reporters on a conference call. The service
hired Evercore, a New York-based investment-banking firm, last
year to provide restructuring advice,  “We believe the plan allows the USPS to preserve its
mission while also becoming economically self-sustaining,” he
said.  The service said last week it lost $3.3 billion in the
quarter ended Dec. 31. It has forecast a $14.1 billion loss for
the year ending Sept. 30.  “These prospective losses would be unsustainable and would
cause the Postal Service to become a long-term burden to the
American taxpayer,” the service said in its letter to Congress.
“Such an outcome is highly undesirable and entirely
avoidable.”  Postage Increases  The Postal Service says it would save $2.7 billion annually
by cutting mail delivery to five days a week and $7.1 billion a
year by managing its own health-care benefits.  Raising the price of a first-class stamp to 50 cents would
raise $1 billion a year in new revenue, according to the plan.  Postage-rate increases now can’t exceed the rise in the
 consumer price index . The service wants to make the 5-cent
increase over one or more years in addition to annual inflation-
linked boosts, Chief Financial Officer Joseph Corbett said on
the call.  “The U.S. today is by far the least expensive of any post
in the world,” Corbett said. “Clearly we’re underpriced in
that area for single-piece first-class, and we would like the
ability to move that price up.”  The price of a first-class stamp was raised to 45 cents
last month from 44 cents.  The Postal Service drafted its business plan with analysis
from  Boston Consulting Group  and  Accenture Plc. (ACN)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  