-- Potomac Gap Shows Court Foreclosures Delay Housing Recovery
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   D a n   L e v y
-- 2012-02-16T17:04:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/potomac-divide-shows-foreclosures-through-courts-slow-home-price-recovery.html
The  Maryland  and Virginia suburbs of
Washington are a lot alike, with similar populations of workers
from the U.S. capital, incomes above the national average and
unemployment rates below the norm.  Their housing markets are going in opposite directions.  Home prices rose 0.8 percent in Virginia last year while
across the Potomac River in Maryland they fell 3.6 percent,
according to data provider CoreLogic Inc. The reason is that
Maryland, like 23 other states including  New York  and  Florida ,
requires court approval to foreclose on delinquent homeowners, a
lengthy process that has slowed comebacks across the country,
said Thomas Lawler, a housing consultant and former chief
economist for mortgage financier  Fannie Mae. (FNMA)   “States that have dealt with foreclosures in an
expeditious way, whether or not it’s good from a social
perspective, appear to be recovering,” Lawler said in a
telephone interview from his office in Leesburg,  Virginia . “The
difference is the foreclosure laws.”  The 24 so-called judicial states, which have about 42
percent of the 50.3 million U.S. residential mortgages, provide
automatic court review of home seizures. That gives borrowers a
legal forum to demand proof that lenders have the right to
foreclose, or to argue for mortgage modifications -- while
extending the process.  Without Court Intervention  In nonjudicial states, lenders send notices to delinquent
borrowers and record defaults at the county level without court
intervention. That has helped hard-hit states such as  Nevada ,
 Arizona  and  California  reduce their foreclosure inventory
quickly, paving the way for a rebound. For a recovery to take
place, the supply of foreclosed properties, which usually sell
for less than non-distressed homes nearby, must shrink before
prices can find a floor.  “I don’t think the housing market finds its footing until
we’ve worked through that mountain of property that’s still
sitting out there in foreclosure,” said  Mark Zandi , chief
economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West Chester,
 Pennsylvania .  The backlog of foreclosures may start to clear following
the $25 billion settlement, announced Feb. 9, with the five
largest U.S. mortgage lenders. Home seizures fell sharply while
attorneys general in 50 states investigated allegations that the
banks used faulty or forged paperwork for repossessions, a
practice known as robo-signing.  Stepping Up Foreclosures  The settlement won’t change the legal framework that sets
the pace of repossessions, and may lengthen the timeline because
it  prohibits  banks and loan servicers from paying incentives to
“encourage speed in the signing” of seizure-related documents.
Still, lenders are expected to step up foreclosures 25 percent
this year and surpass the 2010 record of 1.05 million, according
to property research firm RealtyTrac Inc.  While that will inflict pain on delinquent homeowners in
the short run, it will make a long-term recovery more likely,
Zandi said.  States with nonjudicial foreclosures “are seeing the
backlog of foreclosures clear more rapidly,”  Jay Brinkmann ,
chief economist for the Washington-based Mortgage Bankers
Association, said today in a report on delinquencies. “In
contrast, the percentage of loans in foreclosure in the judicial
system states has hit an all-time high of 6.8 percent, almost
two and a half times higher than rate for nonjudicial states.”  Judicial-State Increase  In judicial states, loans were delinquent for an average of
two years before repossession, 40 percent longer than in
nonjudicial states, according to  Lender Processing Services Inc. (LPS) 
The number of delinquent mortgages increased in 15 of the 24
judicial states last year while declining in 23 of the 26
nonjudicial states, according to the Jacksonville, Florida-based
real estate services company.  “It would take less than three years at current rates to
clear the inventory of loans in nonjudicial states,” said Herb Blecher, a senior vice president at the firm. “In judicial
states, we’re looking at closer to eight.”  In Maryland, 13.4 percent of loans were delinquent or
facing foreclosure in December, up 0.2 percentage points from a
year earlier, according to Lender Processing Services. The
Virginia delinquency rate was 8.3 percent, down 0.7 percentage
points from 2010. The U.S. average rate was 12.3 percent, down
0.7 percentage points.  Milder Housing Bust  The  Washington  metropolitan area had a milder housing bust
than battered states such as Florida, California, Nevada and
Arizona because there was less overbuilding and fewer job losses
around the capital. The  unemployment rate  was 6.2 percent in
Virginia and 6.7 percent in Maryland in December, according to
the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. Nationally, the rate fell
to 8.3 percent last month from 8.5 percent in December.  “Both markets worsened, but Virginia peaked and declined
much earlier than Maryland, and it’s consistent across all
counties for each state,” Sam Khater, senior economist for
CoreLogic, said in an e-mail from his office in McLean,
Virginia. “Given that the D.C. metro area serves as a control -
- similar economies across the state border, similar housing
market dynamics, etc. -- it’s interesting to note that
foreclosure laws can make a difference at the local level.”  Two Counties  Fairfax County, Virginia, and Montgomery County, Maryland,
have similar demographics and populations of about 1 million,
both up more than 11 percent from a decade ago. The Fairfax
County median household income was $105,416, compared with
$93,373 in Montgomery County, according to U.S. Census data.  Fairfax County  home prices  ended last year at $387,000, up
26 percent from a post-peak low in January 2009, while the
Montgomery County median was $335,000, a 12 percent increase
from a bottom in January 2011, according to Metropolitan
Regional Information Systems Inc., a listing  company  in
Rockville, Maryland.  The recovery gap widens with distance from the center of
Washington, said William Noel, a real estate broker with Re/Max
Allegiance who is licensed in both states. The rebound has taken
hold in northern Virginia, while southern Maryland is still
hampered by foreclosures, he said.  Prince George’s County (200MF) , Maryland, 20 miles (32 kilometers)
southeast of Washington, and Prince William County, Virginia, 29
miles southwest of the capital, experienced similar building
booms followed by foreclosure outbreaks, Khater said. Median
home prices in Prince George’s fell 9 percent last year to
$160,000 while Prince William dropped 0.6 percent to $238,500,
according to  Long & Foster Real Estate Inc.  of Chantilly,
Virginia.  ‘Exactly the Same’  “The dirt and the land are exactly the same,” Noel said
in a telephone interview from Woodbridge, Virginia. “Three or
four years ago, there were ‘for sale’ signs all over here,
because people were losing their homes. Now people see things
improving. They’re feeling better and we’re seeing multiple
offers.”  Florida, at 11.9 percent, had the highest rate of homes
awaiting foreclosure as of Dec. 31, according to Santa Ana,
California-based  CoreLogic. (CLGX)  Foreclosures bogged down there after
September 2010, when banks imposed a moratorium amid the robo-
signing scandal.  The state had the third-highest number of foreclosure
filings in both 2009 and 2010, then fell to seventh last year,
behind six nonjudicial states that are clearing their property
gluts, according to RealtyTrac. The bank settlement probably
will help unplug the real estate docket and return Florida to
the top five by the end of the second quarter, said  Daren Blomquist , spokesman for the Irvine, California-based firm.  Jump in Florida  Default filings in Florida jumped 36 percent last month
from January 2011, the state’s first annual gain in more than a
year, RealtyTrac reported today.  The effect of delayed distressed sales can be found in such
places as the Fort Myers-Cape Coral area on Florida’s Gulf
Coast, where the median single-family home price rose 36 percent
last year to $123,400, according to the Florida Association of
Realtors. Prices probably will fall again when the spigot
reopens, said Marc Joseph, owner of a residential brokerage in
Cape Coral.  “Things may look good, but in the back of my mind, I know
there’s that backlog,” he said.  Pain before gain has been the rule in large swaths of
California, a nonjudicial state that led the U.S. with the most
foreclosure-related filings in 2011 and had eight of the 10
metro areas with the highest foreclosure rates, RealtyTrac said
in its year-end summary.  Stockton Foreclosures  In  Stockton , located in California’s Central Valley and
home to more foreclosure filings per household than any city but
Las Vegas, bank-owned and short-sale homes traded for an average
12 percent less than nondistressed properties in the third
quarter. That’s down from a 24 percent differential two years
earlier, when the distressed inventory was twice as big, the
data seller said. Short sales are transactions in which the
price is less than the amount owed.  Prices that were in free fall early in the crisis have
stabilized, with a median of $74 a square foot in December, down
4.9 percent from year earlier, according to real estate data
provider  Zillow Inc. (Z)   “Our market has been pressed for so long, bank-owned sales
are almost like a regular sale,” said John Morris, sales
manager for broker PMZ Real Estate in Stockton.  Protection for Homeowners  Despite the speedier market recovery in nonjudicial states,
some homeowner advocates argue that the protections offered in
judicial states are necessary. Questionable bank behavior during
the housing collapse shows the need for clear-cut avenues of
redress, said Michael S. Barr, a law professor at the University
of Michigan in Ann Arbor.  Judicial review is a needed protection that benefits
individual borrowers, said Margery Golant, a homeowners’
attorney in Boca Raton, Florida. Lawyers in that state were
among the first to bring the robo-signing allegations to light,
leading to the probe by state attorneys general and settlement
with companies including  Bank of America Corp.  and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co.   “When you don’t have a judicial officer involved, there’s
nobody home,” Golant said in a telephone interview. “It’s just
a mortgage company and its attorneys and nobody else. In a
nonjudicial setting, it’s just totally robotic.”  New Nevada Law  Nevada, a nonjudicial state with the country’s highest
foreclosure rate, is adding legal protections. A new law that
took effect in October compels lenders to obtain notarized
affidavits before homes can be seized. Legislators expect it to
provide “transparency and legitimacy” after homeowner rights
were “trampled,” said Nevada Assemblyman Marcus Conklin, a
Democrat from Las Vegas.  “This law doesn’t stop foreclosure, but it does require
proof that a trustee has the right to take action on a
property,” Conklin, the Assembly majority leader who co-
sponsored the legislation, said in a telephone interview.  The protections offered in judicial states may do little to
help borrowers. Automatic court review has added time and cost
to foreclosures without helping homeowners pay off, or “cure,”
their loans, according to Paul Willen, senior economist at the
Federal Reserve Bank of  Boston , who analyzed 310,351 mortgages
from 2000 to 2011 with Kristopher Gerardi, a fellow Fed
economist, and Lauren Lambie-Hanson, a researcher.  No Borrower Upside  A year after default, 26 percent of delinquent loans had
cured in judicial states, compared with 25.6 percent in
nonjudicial states, the authors wrote in a December working
paper. Mandated reviews in judicial states slowed the rate of
foreclosure sales by more than half, with no upside to borrowers
or markets, they said.  Previous academic studies suggest that the longer process
also didn’t result in a greater likelihood of borrowers
obtaining loan modifications, while it increased the chance they
would choose so-called strategic defaults to stay in their homes
for long periods without making any payments, Willen said.  “Delaying does not help borrowers, and extra time is not
allowing them to cure,” he said in a telephone interview.
“Judicial foreclosure appears to block efficient foreclosure
without promoting efficient resolutions.”  Prolonging the foreclosure process will have one certain
effect, according to Stan Humphries, chief economist for
Seattle-based Zillow: It will delay a housing recovery.  “Pick your poison,” he said in a telephone interview.
“Either rip the Band-Aid off now or do it slowly, in which case
your market’s going to remain in the doldrums.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  