-- PPR Confident of 2012 Sales Growth After Gucci Slowdown in Fourth Quarter
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-02-16T17:11:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/ppr-confident-of-sales-growth-in-2012-after-2011-earnings-beat-estimates.html
PPR SA (PP)  said it’s confident that
sales and earnings will increase in 2012 amid an “uncertain
economic climate,” even as revenue growth at the Gucci  luxury
goods  brand slowed in the fourth quarter.  The  shares  fell the most since Nov. 1 after Gucci, PPR’s
biggest luxury label, boosted sales less than its other brands.
PPR dropped 3.3 percent to 120.4 euros in Paris trading.  Gucci was “slightly disappointing,” with comparable sales
growth slowing to 12 percent in the fourth quarter compared to
an expected 15.5 percent, CA Cheuvreux analyst Thomas Mesmin
said in a note. He has an “underperform” rating on the shares.
Gucci’s revenue gained 21 percent in the third quarter.  Total sales in the luxury division, which also includes
 Bottega Veneta  and Balenciaga, rose 22 percent in the fourth
quarter. Growth was slightly better than that in January, Jean- Francois Palus, the deputy chief executive officer, said on a
call with reporters. PPR said it will raise prices for luxury
goods this year and the unit will drive retail sales expansion.
It’s “very optimistic” on Gucci’s potential in  Asia .  Recurring operating income climbed 17 percent in 2011 to
1.6 billion euros ($2.1 billion), the Paris-based company said
today in a statement. The average of five analysts’ estimates
was for earnings of 1.54 billion euros, according to a Bloomberg
survey. Sales rose 11 percent to 12.2 billion euros.  Luxury Demand  The market for high-end goods is showing a “strong
dynamic,” Palus said, echoing comments by  LVMH Moet Hennessy
Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , the world’s largest luxury maker, and
Florence, Italy-based Salvatore Ferragamo SpA. Gucci will open
43 stores this year, Bottega will open 22 and  Yves Saint Laurent 
will open 15.  PPR, which is reorganizing to focus on luxury goods and so-
called sports and lifestyle brands, will make acquisitions in
all those areas and is interested in “medium-sized” deals.
Acquisitions account for a small percentage of its 2020 targets.  The company is aiming for 24 billion euros of sales by
2020, with 10 billion euros coming from Asia and more than 1
billion euros online. It’s seeking 54 percent of revenue from
retail and 40 percent from sports and lifestyle, the company
said in a presentation.  Sports and lifestyle brands will expand their product
categories, Chief Executive Officer Francois-Henri Pinault said.  Economic Climate  “In the uncertain economic climate of early 2012, the core
strengths underpinning PPR’s robust 2011 results will continue
to propel our performance this year,”  Pinault said in a
statement. “PPR is confident that 2012 will be another year of
sustained revenue growth and improvements in our operating and
financial performances.”  PPR said it will pay an unchanged dividend of 3.5 euros a
share for 2011, payable on May 7. The company restated 2010
accounts last month to classify online retailer Redcats and the
Italian unit of the Fnac electronics and media chain as
“discontinued operations, sold or to be sold.” That’s a sign
that disposals will probably occur in 2012 even if the assets
continue to come under pressure, according to  Antoine Belge , an
analyst at HSBC.  Redcats Sale  The sale process for Redcats is continuing and PPR is in
talks with several private-equity buyers for the unit, Palus
said on a call with reporters. The suitors are working on
financing and the company said it will ensure it gets the
“right price” for Redcats. It doesn’t plan to break up the
business for a sale.  Potential acquirers for Fnac Italy are industrial, with no
private-equity interest in the business, he said.  PPR is widening its executive committee to include Gucci
CEO Patrizio di Marco, Bottega CEO Marco Bizzarri, Puma CEO
Franz Koch and recently appointed Chief Financial Officer Jean- Marc Duplaix, Palus said. The move will enable the company to be
more integrated and closer to its brands, he said.  PPR also named Belen Essioux Trujillo as senior vice
president in charge of human resources and a member of the
executive committee. She was previously director of human
resources in the leather goods and saddlery division and Hermes
Sellier. The company said it’s seeking gender parity in group
leadership by 2020.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  