-- Protalix Slides on Gaucher Drug Delay Concerns: Israel Overnight
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 2012-02-16T22:51:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/protalix-slides-in-u-s-on-gaucher-drug-delay-concerns-israel-overnight.html
Protalix BioTherapeutics Inc. (PLX)  fell
the most in 10 weeks in New York as the Israeli company’s bid to
raise $24 million selling shares sparked speculation they’re not
expecting to win approval for a  Gaucher  disease treatment.  Carmiel, Israel-based Protalix sank 11 percent to $5.45
yesterday, the most since Dec. 6, and led declines on the
 Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index  of the largest Israeli companies
listed in New York, which retreated 1.2 percent to 91.49.  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , the world’s largest maker of
generic drugs, fell the most in a month.  Protalix, which is developing a protein known as
taliglucerase alfa using plant cells to replace an enzyme
missing in people who have Gaucher disease, will  sell 4.5
million shares  for $5.25 apiece next week, according to a Globe
Newswire statement issued yesterday. The U.S Food & Drug
Administration delayed on Dec. 6 a decision on approving
Protalix’s treatment for sale until May 2012.  “The company is two and a half months before an expected
approval from the FDA, why are they raising funds,” Steven Tepper, an analyst at Harel Finance Ltd., said by phone from  Tel
Aviv . “The message that the company is sending is that the FDA
approval may be delayed again or that they won’t get it.”  E-mails and phone calls to Marcy Nanus from The Trout Group
LLC, an external investor-relations company that represents
Protalix, weren’t immediately returned.  Protalix is planning a stock offering that is expected to
close on Feb. 22, the company said. The proceeds will be used to
fund clinical trials.  ‘Another Delay’  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s largest drugmaker, paid $60
million for rights to taliglucerase in November 2009 and
promised Protalix an additional $55 million should the drug pass
certain regulatory hurdles. New York-based Pfizer is entitled to
60 percent of taliglucerase’s revenue under the agreement.  Shares of Protalix  fell  13 percent in the U.S. on Dec. 6
after the FDA postponed its decision on the drugs.  “It looks like the company doesn’t want to take a chance
that there will be another delay,” Harel Finance’s Tepper said.  Gaucher disease, which can cause fat to build up in the
liver, spleen, bone marrow and nervous system, affects about one
in every 50,000 to 100,000 people, according to the National
Human Genome Research Institute.  Protalix  shares  in Tel Aviv were unchanged yesterday at
23.20 shekels, or the equivalent of $6.18.  Allot Communications Ltd. (ALLT) , an Israeli maker of high-speed
networking equipment,  climbed  7.8 percent to $17.47 yesterday,
after its stock in Tel Aviv gained 2 percent to 61.38 shekels,
or the equivalent of $16.29.  ‘Strongly Positioned’  “Business momentum remains solid,”  Ittai Kidron , an
analyst at Oppenheimer Holdings Inc., wrote in an e-mailed
report yesterday. “Allot is strongly positioned to benefit”
from mobile companies’ expansion, he said.  Israel , whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to  Switzerland ’s, has about 60 companies listed on  Nasdaq , the
most of any country outside  North America  after  China . The
nation is also home to more startup companies per capita than
the U.S.  Teva dropped the most since Jan. 11 in  New York , retreating
2 percent to $44.15. Shares of the Petach Tikva, Israel-based
company climbed 1.4 percent in Tel Aviv to 170.20 shekels, or
the equivalent of $45.39.  The U.K.’s Medicines and Healthcare products regulatory
agency has suspended the license of a hypothyroidism treatment
made by Teva, citing manufacturing difficulties, according to an
e-mailed statement from the agency yesterday.  MagicJack, Orckit  MagicJack VocalTec Ltd. (CALL) , the Israeli company whose founders
invented the technology used to make phone calls over the
Internet, rose to the highest level since May 2006, surging 3.6
percent to $19.49.  The Netanya, Israel-based company said it will beat the
average analyst estimates for first-quarter profit and sales in
2012, according to a Globe Newswire statement distributed
yesterday. MagicJack will probably post a 20 percent and 4
percent premium to average analyst estimates for income and
revenue respectively, the statement said.  Orckit Communications Ltd. (ORCT) , a telecommunications equipment
maker, slumped to the lowest level on record, dropping 25
percent to 54 cents in New York after its Tel Aviv shares sank
27 percent to 2.06 shekels, or 55 cents.  The Tel Aviv-based company reached an agreement with
bondholders that includes swapping debt for stock at a lower
price than the share, according to a Globe Newswire statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  