-- Apple Faces Fight in China as Proview Asks Retailers to Stop Selling IPads
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-02-16T20:04:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/proview-asks-chinese-retailers-to-stop-selling-apple-s-ipads.html
Proview International Holdings Ltd. (334) ,
which claims ownership of the iPad trademark in China, asked
retailers to stop selling  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s tablet computer as the
dispute between the two companies intensified.  Some retailers halted iPad sales after Proview submitted
complaints, Roger Xie, a lawyer representing Hong Kong-traded
Proview, said by phone yesterday, declining to identify them.
Separately, Internet shopping sites including  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s
Amazon.cn and 360Buy.com no longer displayed iPads or quoted
prices for the product.  Proview, a maker of computer displays, said this week it
asked China’s customs bureau to block imports and exports of the
iPad after winning a local court decision against Cupertino,
California-based Apple over the trademark. Apple quadrupled
revenue in China last year after adding stores and expanding
online distribution of its products.  Carolyn Wu, a Beijing-based spokeswoman at Apple, declined
to comment beyond a statement earlier this week that Apple
acquired Proview’s rights to the iPad trademark in 10 countries,
including  China .  June Jin, a Beijing-based spokeswoman at Amazon, said the
unavailability of iPads on the company’s website isn’t related
to the trademark dispute. She didn’t elaborate. Calls to the
general lines of 360Buy.com in Beijing weren’t answered.  Amazon Removal  Xie, a partner at Grandall Law Firm in Shenzhen, said the
customs bureau has not replied to Proview’s requests. Tao Yong,
a spokesman at the General Administration of Customs, said he
couldn’t immediately comment.  Apple asked Amazon to remove the iPad 2 from its Chinese
division because the local site wasn’t authorized to sell the
device, the Wall Street Journal reported yesterday, citing
people it didn’t identify. The action was unrelated to the
trademark dispute, according to the report.  Apple sued Proview’s Shenzhen-based unit in 2010, claiming
ownership of the iPad trademark in China. The Shenzhen
Intermediate People’s Court rejected Apple’s claims on Nov. 17,
Proview said in a Dec. 15 regulatory filing. Apple appealed that
ruling to the Higher People’s Court of  Guangdong province  on
Jan. 5, Proview said in a Jan. 27 filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  