-- RDQ’s Ryding Calls Bernanke’s 2014 Low-Rate Pledge Misguided: Tom Keene
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-02-16T20:31:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/rdq-s-ryding-calls-bernanke-s-2014-low-rate-pledge-misguided-tom-keene.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s pledge to keep rates exceptionally low through late
2014 is a mistake with the  U.S. economy  gaining steam, said  John Ryding , chief economist and co-founder of RDQ Economics.  “Why are we still having crisis policy and committing to
it for another two and a half years when the economy is getting
better and we are not in crisis?” Ryding said in an interview
today on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance Midday” with  Tom
Keene .  Ryding said Fed policy makers are trying to rescue the
housing market, which is showing signs of recovery on its own.
Bernanke, in a speech to homebuilders in  Orlando ,  Florida , on
Feb. 10, urged additional steps to heal residential real estate.
He repeated that because of slow construction, recovery has been
“frustratingly slow.”  “It is like the Fed is fighting the last battle here, even
though housing indicators, especially in  construction  activity
and homebuilding optimism, have been getting better,” Ryding
said.  While the Fed has pushed its target rate to near zero and
sought to reduce long-term rates as well, “It is nonmonetary
factors that are holding people back,” the economist said.
“ Mortgage rates  are already low.”  Ryding cited the Taylor Rule, a guideline for setting rates
developed by Stanford University professor  John Taylor  based on
inflation and how far growth veers from its long-term potential.  “If you follow the Taylor Rule, the fed funds rate should
be somewhere around 2 percent at the present time,” he said.
“The Fed should be thinking about exit strategy, not how to get
in deeper.”  January Statement  The  Federal Open Market Committee  on Jan. 25 released
federal funds rate forecasts by policy makers for the first time
and said the key rate was likely to stay “exceptionally low”
at least through late 2014. The central bank had previously said
it would keep borrowing costs low at least until the middle of
2013.  “The Fed has told us raising rates is bad for the
economy,” Ryding said. “Actually, in the environment we are
in, having a more normal interest rate might be good for the
economy. It might be good for those people trying to save. It
might be good for the elderly.”  Ryding’s comments echoed Taylor’s view that monetary and
fiscal policy should be based on clear rules, without surprise
interventions, to lead to better economic performance.  Unemployment can’t be easily influenced by the Fed because
it is influenced by structural issues, such as a mismatch of job
applicants and skills, he said.  More Openings  “We’re getting more job openings,” he said. “People
aren’t filling those job openings. That speaks to me more of
issues of worker retraining to help people get into the jobs
they need to get into, than of one of trying to get  interest
rates  down even lower than zero.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  