-- Treasury Inflation Bond Demand Eases With Yields at an Auction Record Low
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-02-16T19:39:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/treasury-inflation-bond-demand-eases-with-yields-at-an-auction-record-low.html
Demand declined at the Treasury’s
auction of $9 billion in inflation-indexed bonds as investors
balk at yields at record lows.  The bid-to-cover ratio for the Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities, which gauges demand by comparing the amount bid with
the amount offered, was 2.46, the second lowest since the
security was brought back to market in 2010, and less than an
average of 2.77 at the five auctions since sales resumed in
February 2010.  The TIPS were still sold at a record low yield of 0.77
percent, compared with a forecast of 0.684 percent, the average
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of six of the  Federal
Reserve ’s 21 primary dealers that are required to bid on U.S.
debt sales. The previous record low of 0.999 percent came in the
last sale on Oct. 20 and auction sized matched the record set in
February 2011.  “It’s was a rough auction and there is no way around it,”
said Michael Pond, co-head of interest-rate strategy in New York
at Barclays plc, a primary dealer. “Investors just have a lower
appetite for real yields as low as they are that far out the
curve.” The yield curve measures the difference between yields
on short- and long-term securities.  The auction “tailed” or sold at yield levels higher than
where the securities were trading before the auction by seven
basis points, according to  Richard Gilhooly , an interest-rate
strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities Inc. in New
York.  Bid Data  Indirect bidders, a category of investors that includes
foreign central banks, bought 40.6 percent of the securities,
matching an average of 40.6 percent at the past five auctions.  Direct bidders, non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 13.6 percent of
the securities at the last sale, versus an 18.16 percent average
at the past five auctions.  “Seemingly nonstop richening in the days ahead of the
auction and then a last minute concession was an early warning
that the market was going in too hot,”  George Goncalves , head
of interest-rate strategy in  New York  at Nomura Holdings Inc.,
with colleagues Stanley Sun and Ankit Sahni wrote in a note to
clients. “The takedown results were average, but the very rich
levels resulted in the worst tail in recent memory.”  Fed’s Role  Inflation adjusted yields have been under pressure as the
Fed said it would continue to extend the average maturity of its
$2.6 trillion securities portfolio, a move dubbed by traders
Operation Twist and maintained its policy of reinvesting
maturing housing debt into agency mortgage-backed securities.  “Real yields are rich relative to the fundamentals, but
they are being distorted by the Fed, so it’s still a question of
how much they can rise,” Barclays’ Pond added.  Inflation-indexed TIPS pay interest at lower rates than
nominal Treasuries on a principal amount that’s adjusted based
on the Labor Department’s consumer price index. TIPS have
returned 2 percent this year after returning 14.1 percent in
2011, compared with 9.8 percent for conventional Treasuries,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  The difference between yields on U.S. 30-year notes and
TIPS, a gauge of expectations for inflation during the life of
the debt known as the break-even rate, was 2.40 percentage
points. The average during the past decade is 2.47 percentage
points.  This was the sixth 30-year TIPS offering since auctions of
the security were resumed after the Treasury stopped selling
them in 2001.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  