-- Record European Credit Rally Halted on Greek Bailout Wrangling
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s   a n d   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 2012-02-16T10:40:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/record-european-credit-rally-halted-on-greek-bailout-wrangling.html
A record rally in European credit
markets ground to a halt as the unraveling rescue plan for
Greece fueled concern of a default triggering turmoil in the
euro region.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of credit-default swaps
on 25 banks and insurers rose for a seventh day, soaring nine
basis points to a one-month high of 252 basis points, according
to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  at 10 a.m. in London. The measure
dropped 58 basis points in January, a record monthly decline.  Europe’s creditor countries are embroiled in a game of
brinkmanship with Greek policy makers ahead of a March 20 bond
redemption when the country has to make a 14.5 billion-euro ($19
billion) payment. Lender nations are concerned Greece has
neither the will nor the ability to put its finances on a sound
footing should it receive a 130 billion-euro aid package.  “The perceived impact of a Greek default means that every
day that passes without an agreement is likely to make investors
more nervous,” said Ian Robinson, a  fund manager  at F&C Asset
Management Plc in  London , which oversees about $157 billion.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to junior debt of
25 banks and insurers jumped 13.5 basis points to 423.5 basis
points today, after falling by a record 130 basis points last
month.  Credit-default swaps on  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) 
rose to the highest levels in two months after Moody’s Investors
Service said it may cut the lenders’ credit ratings by as many
as three levels. Contracts on UBS soared 18 basis points to 199
and Credit Suisse climbed 14 to 174, according to CMA.  Goldman Sachs  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , JPMorgan Chase
& Co. and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  are among companies that may be
downgraded by two levels, Moody’s said in a statement, adding
that the “guidance is indicative only.”  The cost of insuring sovereign and corporate debt also
surged. The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of swaps on
15 governments rose for a seventh day, the longest streak since
November 2010. The gauge climbed 10 basis points to 355, after
falling for the past two months. An increase signals
deterioration in perceptions of  credit quality .  Contracts on the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 50
companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings rose for a third
day, climbing 15.5 basis points to 647.5. The measure has
increased for eight of the past nine trading days. The Markit
iTraxx  Europe  Index of 125 companies with investment-grade
ratings rose 3.25 basis points to 148.75. Both measures fell in
December and January.  Merry-Go-Round  “It’s been like a merry-go-round with increasing talk of a
Greek exit from the euro sitting alongside talk that the bailout
might even be delayed until after the April Greek elections,”
said Lee McDarby, head of dealing on the corporate and
institutional treasury desk at Investec Bank Plc in London.
“Meanwhile the mid-March deadline for Greece’s next debt
repayment continues to loom closer.”  Government bonds  in the euro region’s so-called periphery
are also suffering. The  yield  premium that investors demand to
hold 10-year Italian notes instead of benchmark German bunds
increased 15 basis points to 402, after dropping to a five-month
low of 347 basis points on Feb. 9.  The spread versus bunds on  France (.FRANGER) ’s 10-year note rose 18
basis points to 116, while Spanish  spreads  increased 13 basis
points to 371, the highest in more than a month. The extra yield
versus German notes on  Greece ’s bonds widened to 3,144 basis
points, close to a record.  Stock Markets  Global stock markets are proving more resilient. The Euro
Stoxx 600 Index fell 0.7 percent to 262.3, remaining near the
seven-month high of 264.6 on Feb. 3.  “Equity markets are confident that a Greek default is not
going to rock the world economy and have a meaningful impact on
consumer and corporate spending,” said Georg Grodzki, London-
based head of credit research at Legal & General Plc, which
manages $550 billion of assets. “There is no reason to lose
confidence in corporate earnings given there is sufficient
growth momentum elsewhere in the world.”  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  