-- Reliance, BP Said to Win Indian Approval to Develop Gas Find
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-02-17T04:03:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/reliance-industries-bp-said-to-win-india-s-approval-for-gas-discovery.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  and partner
 BP Plc (BP/)  have won approval from India’s government to prepare a
plan to develop a natural gas discovery in the  Bay of Bengal ,
two people with direct knowledge of the matter said.  A panel headed by the country’s oil and gas regulator
recognized the R1 deposit as being commercially viable at a
meeting held two weeks ago, the people said, asking not to be
identified because the matter is confidential. The discovery is
part of a cluster known as the R-Series that billionaire Mukesh
Ambani’s Reliance and BP plan to jointly develop.  Reliance, which sold a 30 percent stake in 21 fields to BP
for  $7.2 billion  last year, had sought the government’s
permission to develop new discoveries to help counter a drop in
output from its main areas in the KG-D6 block off  India ’s east
coast. The R1 deposit is estimated to hold about 1.6 trillion
cubic feet (45 billion cubic meters) of gas and may be capable
of producing more than 10 million cubic meters a day after 2015,
one of the people said.  “It’s definitely good news, considering their overall gas
production has been declining,” said  Deepak Pareek , a Mumbai-
based analyst at Prabhudas Lilladher Pvt. who has an
“accumulate” rating for the stock. “The moot issue is the
price this gas will be sold at.”  S.K. Srivastava, the regulator, didn’t answer two calls to
his mobile phone seeking comment. Tushar Pania, a spokesman for
Reliance Industries, said he couldn’t immediately comment.  Reliance snapped a three-day decline,  gaining  as much as
1.5 percent to 824.95 rupees, and traded at 815.50 rupees as of
9:27 a.m. in Mumbai. The stock has gained 18 percent this year,
compared with a 19 percent increase in the benchmark  Sensitive
Index. (SENSEX)   Declining Gas Output  Gas output from the KG-D6 block is dropping after five of
18 wells in the main D1 and D3 producing areas were shut because
of water and sand entering them. Output may drop further in the
year beginning April 1 as Reliance and BP study a plan to revive
the wells, reducing supplies to power utilities and fertilizer
plants.  The  Directorate General of Hydrocarbons , the regulator, is
yet to approve the viability of three other smaller discoveries
in the R-Series cluster, which lies within the KG-D6 block, the
person said. Reserves at the R1 deposit are equivalent to about
14 percent of the primary D1 and D3 fields, which have about
11.2 trillion cubic feet of resources, the person said.  Gas output from three areas in the KG-D6 block, where
production started in April 2009, has fallen to about 36 million
cubic meters a day, the person said.  Reliance said Jan. 20 gas production had dropped to about
38 million cubic meters a day in the three months ended Dec. 31
from about 45 million cubic meters in the preceding quarter. A
peak of 60 million cubic meters a day was reached in 2010 and
output has slid since because of technical issues, according to
the company.  Reliance and BP got approval to spend $1.5 billion to
develop four discoveries in a cluster separate from the R-Series
fields of the KG-D6 block, three people familiar with the
development said Jan. 4. These discoveries can produce about 10
million cubic meters a day of gas, the people said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  