-- R.J. Reynolds, Philip Morris Win Federal Jury Trial in Florida
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-02-17T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/rjr-philip-morris-win-smoker-trial-in-florida-altria-says.html
Altria Group Inc. (MO) ’s Philip Morris
USA and  R.J. Reynolds  Tobacco Co. won a defense verdict in a
wrongful-death case filed by the widow of a smoker who died of
 lung cancer , Altria said.  A jury in federal court in Jacksonville,  Florida , returned
the verdict for the companies yesterday on the first day of
deliberations, Altria said in a statement. The trial was the
first federal trial of thousands of so-called “Engle” tobacco
injury claims.  Virginia Gollihue claimed her husband, Manuel Gollihue,
died from lung cancer at age 53 after smoking at least two packs
a day of the defendants’ cigarettes for almost 38 years. His
illness and death were caused by his addiction to nicotine,
 Virginia  Gollihue claimed.  Gollihue’s suit was the first individual claim by a smoker
tried in a Florida federal court after the state’s supreme court
in 2006 threw out a $145 billion punitive-damage verdict against
the industry and ended a class action filed on behalf of Florida
smokers.  The ruling, which permitted smokers in the class to sue
individually, is known as the “Engle” decision, after  Howard
Engle , the lead plaintiff in the case.  So far, smokers have won 40 of the 58 Engle verdicts in
state court trials, according to Edward L. Sweda Jr., senior
attorney for the Tobacco Products Liability Project, which
tracks the suits. Trials in federal court have been delayed by
pretrial appeals.  47 Minutes  As of Feb. 13,  Philip Morris  faced 3,306 Engle cases in
Florida state courts and 3,238 in federal courts, according to
an Altria  Securities and Exchange Commission filing  yesterday.
Reynolds is a defendant in 6,561 cases in state and federal
courts combined, it said in an  SEC filing  Feb. 15.  The jury deliberated for 47 minutes before delivering its
verdict, according to Stephanie Parker, a partner with the  Jones
Day (1113L)  law firm who represented Reynolds in the trial.  In a separate case yesterday, a jury in Oregon state court
issued a $25 million verdict against Philip Morris in a lawsuit
by the family of a woman who smoked low-tar cigarettes and died
of lung cancer in 1999, said Chuck Tauman, the family’s
attorney.  Philip Morris, based in Richmond, Virginia, is the biggest
U.S. cigarette maker. R.J. Reynolds, a unit of Winston-Salem,
North Carolina-based  Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) , is number two.  The case is Gollihue v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., 09-
CV-10530, U.S. District Court, Middle District of Florida
(Jacksonville).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  