-- Robusta Premium Slides 21% as Vietnam May Be Selling After Rally
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-02-16T18:53:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/robusta-premium-slides-21-as-vietnam-may-be-selling-after-rally.html
The premium for robusta coffee
delivered in March plunged 21 percent today on speculation
farmers in  Vietnam , the world’s biggest grower of the beans,
have resumed sales to take advantage of higher prices.  Beans for March delivery are $130 a metric ton more
expensive than May-delivered coffee on NYSE Liffe in London,
down from $164 a ton yesterday, data on Bloomberg show.
Robusta coffee jumped 20 percent this year and entered a  bull
market  as exports from Vietnam dropped 48 percent last month.  Prices have jumped 18 percent in the past eight days alone
as the March futures contract came closer to expiration, fueling
speculation that there was more interest in taking delivery of
beans. NYSE Liffe yesterday said it was proposing limits on
deliveries in its  London  commodity futures which would prevent
buyers from taking more than 75,000 tons of coffee.  “We’ve seen a bit of producer selling from Vietnam today
and that dragged the spread between March and May lower,” Gary
Mead, an analyst at VM Group in London, said by phone today.
“It’s hard to say whether this price difference will continue
to fall. That will depend on whether producers continue to
sell.”  The robusta coffee contract for March went from being $10 a
ton cheaper than May on Feb. 8 to $130 a ton more expensive in
six days. The open interest for the futures is 18 percent higher
than at the same time last year, data on Bloomberg show. That is
10 working days before the first notice, when holders of
contracts need to say if they intend to take delivery of beans.  Risky Bet  “It seems like we could be in for a large delivery, with
the price rises we have seen, the inversion of the March-May
contracts and the current open interest,” Keith Flury, an
analyst at Rabobank International in London, said by phone
today. “It would be too risky of a bet if these beans weren’t
already sold in the physical market.”  NYSE Liffe’s proposal on delivery limits is almost two
years after a group of 16 cocoa consumers complained about a
lack of transparency in the markets. The first notice for the
March robusta contract is on March 1.  Vietnam’s coffee exports were 112,182 tons in January,
according to government figures. Farmers there had sold about 35
percent of the crop before the Tet holiday, down from an
anticipated 50 percent, according to broker Marex Spectron Group
in London. The Tet festival, which marks the Lunar New Year, ran
from Jan. 23 to Jan. 27.  European coffee stockpiles have been falling since July 11.
Inventories with valid grading certificates in warehouses
monitored by NYSE Liffe stood at 227,170 tons as of Feb. 6, down
46 percent from an all-time high of 417,420 tons on July 11,
according to the exchange figures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 