-- Romney’s Shifting Auto Bailout Stance May Become Liability
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-02-16T16:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/romney-s-shifting-auto-bailout-stance-risks-becoming-liability.html
In 2008,  Mitt Romney  campaigned for
president in  Michigan  decrying Washington’s disregard for lost
automobile industry jobs.  Ten months later, after he had left the race, the Detroit
native advocated that the government let  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
Chrysler Group LLC go bankrupt rather than extend a federal
bailout -- a course that a bipartisan chorus of elected
officials, including Michigan’s Republican Governor  Rick Snyder ,
say would have been fatal for the U.S. automotive industry,
leading to massive job losses.  Now, Romney takes credit for recommending a version of the
restructuring that turned around the now-thriving car companies.
GM today announced earnings of $9.19 billion in 2011, the
largest profit in its 103-year history, and the company retook
the global auto sales lead from  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  last year.  For Romney, facing a strong challenge from  Rick Santorum  in
his second run for the Republican presidential nomination, the
shifting stands on the  auto-industry  bailout underscore a
persistent criticism lodged against him -- that the former
Massachusetts governor has changed positions for political
expedience. His argument also places him on the wrong side of
one of the few economic success stories voters have witnessed.  “Michigan very uniquely believes that the impact on the
auto industry was positive, and that it was a necessary act, and
Mitt Romney has a challenge to try and explain his position
against doing that,” said Bernie Porn of EPIC-MRA, a Lansing-
based research company.  Santorum Opposed Bailout  The issue may not attract much attention in Michigan’s Feb.
28 primary because Romney’s chief rivals, including Santorum,
also opposed the auto-bailout plan. Santorum, a onetime
Pennsylvania senator, is leading Romney in state and national
polls.  If Romney gets the nomination, Porn said, it will be “the
cutting issue, and something that will be” to President Barack Obama’s “advantage in Michigan.”  During his 2008 primary campaign, Romney went to Michigan
and assailed his prime competitor, Arizona Senator  John McCain ,
for saying the car-making jobs that had been lost “aren’t
coming back.”  ‘Where Is Washington?’  “The question is, where is  Washington ?” Romney told
reporters on Jan. 12, 2008, in Ypsilanti, outside a General
Motors plant that had just laid off 200 workers. “Are we going
to let the entire  automobile industry , domestic manufactured
automotive industry, disappear and just say, ‘Well, that was
tough, that’s just the way it is?’”  A campaign aide, who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly
about the issue, said this week that Romney was talking about
boosting energy research that might benefit the industry, not a
direct bailout.  Two weeks after McCain lost the general election to Obama,
as the  Bush administration  was debating a bailout, Romney wrote
in a Nov. 19, 2008, op-ed in the New York Times, under the
headline “Let  Detroit  Go Bankrupt,” that if the bailout
happened, “you can kiss the American automotive industry
goodbye.”  His  proposed  alternative -- a “managed bankruptcy” to
allow the car companies to restructure -- wasn’t feasible,
according to Republicans and Democrats involved in the industry
rescue who said there was no entity at the time willing to
provide the money that would have been needed to prop up the
companies while they reorganized.  ‘Uncertain Situation’  “It wasn’t just that there wasn’t credit available; a lot
of private equity had cash, they just weren’t giving it away,”
said  Tony Fratto , a Republican strategist who was  an  aide to
President  George W. Bush  when the initial $17 billion in bailout
loans were extended in late 2008. “It was a very uncertain
situation.”  Bush, speaking to auto dealers gathered in  Las Vegas  for a
recent conference, said of the bailout: “I’d do it again.”  Prominent Michigan Republicans, including Snyder and U.S.
Representative Fred Upton, also have said the bailout was
necessary. Differences aside, Snyder endorsed Romney as “the
best choice” in an  op-ed column  today in the  Detroit News  that
made no mention of the bailout.  The rescue “was the right thing to do,” Upton, who has
also endorsed Romney, told Bloomberg Television in a Dec. 3
interview, adding that the car companies “wouldn’t have
survived” without the government’s help.  Economic Meltdown  Steven Rattner , who advised Obama on the bailout, said
Romney’s course would have immediately led to “an economic
meltdown of proportions we have not seen in this country.” That
would include a “deep, deep depression in Michigan,” affecting
car factories, the suppliers that feed them, and even day-care
centers and bars used by millions of workers, he said.  “If the advice that he had prescribed in November of 2008
had been followed by either the Bush administration or the Obama
administration, we would have today no auto industry, no
Detroit, no state of Michigan -- no exaggeration,” Rattner said
in an interview. “Both administrations concluded there was no
such thing possible as a managed bankruptcy.”  Romney defends his position that the government shouldn’t
have provided direct help to the car companies and advocated it
anew in a Feb. 14  op-ed  in the Detroit News that called Obama’s
management of the bailout “crony capitalism on a grand scale.”
He charged that the president hampered the auto industry’s
recovery by using the rescue to enrich union supporters, even as
he went along with the restructuring Romney had suggested.  Emerging From Bankruptcy  “The course I recommended was eventually followed,”
Romney wrote, noting that GM and Chrysler quickly emerged from
bankruptcy in mid-2009.  The piece drew criticism from  Mike Jackson , chief executive
officer of  AutoNation Inc. (AN) , the largest auto-dealer group in the
U.S., who called it “truly reckless, detached from reality, and
dishonest,” as well as “very bad politics, especially in
Michigan.” Jackson, who has been a Romney advocate, said in an
e-mail to Bloomberg News the assertion that private financing
should have been used to fund GM and Chrysler bankruptcies was
“fantasy,” adding, “Everyone knows we were in the midst of
the greatest financial meltdown since the 1930s.”  Some Republican strategists believe Romney’s argument could
resonate with bailout-weary voters in Michigan and other
industrial states such as Ohio, Indiana and  Illinois , who are
suspicious of government intervention even as they are pleased
with the outcome of the automobile rescue.  Of Two Minds  “Most Americans out there are of two minds on this,”
Fratto said.  Obama has begun making the resurgence of Detroit-based GM
and Chrysler, which is majority-owned by  Fiat SpA (F) , a selling
point in his re-election campaign. He leads Romney in Michigan
for the first time in more than a year, Porn said, with backing
from 48 percent compared with 40 percent for Romney in Jan. 25
poll.  Michiganders have overwhelmingly backed the bailout, Porn
added. The last time his firm polled on the topic, in December
2010, 65 percent thought it was a good idea to provide the loans
to the auto companies, including 81 percent of Democrats, 64
percent of independents, and 51 percent of Republicans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  