-- Murdoch Is Set to Face Sun Newsroom Following Arrest of Nine Journalists
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-02-16T15:43:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/rupert-murdoch-set-to-face-seething-sun-newsroom-following-nine-arrests.html
Rupert Murdoch  faced down angry
labor unions and journalists a quarter-century ago to establish
a new printing plant in east London. This week he travels to the
same part of town to calm unhappy employees.  Staff at the Sun, the U.K.’s best-selling newspaper, met
with managers on Feb. 14 to demand an audience with the 80-year-
old chief executive officer of News Corp. tomorrow while he’s in
London, said a person with knowledge of the meeting who declined
to be identified because the discussion was private.  Employees want to hear that Murdoch is going to stand by
the paper and its staff as a phone-hacking scandal at News
Corp.’s U.K. unit, which resulted in the closure of the News of
the World, spreads to more of his newspapers. Nine Sun
journalists have been arrested since Jan. 29 as part of an
investigation into bribes to police officers and officials.  Discontent in the Sun newsroom is growing after the
Management and Standards Committee, formed by New York-based
 News Corp. (NWSA)  to assist police in their investigations of phone-
hacking and bribery, said it handed over information that led to
the arrest of the Sun journalists.  The MSC estimates that at least 100,000 pounds have been
paid in cash over several years to public officials, a person
with knowledge of the committee’s investigation said, declining
to be named as the matter is not public.  In return for the meeting with Murdoch, managers wanted
reassurance that employees would be respectful when he arrived,
said the person with knowledge of the meeting. A News Corp.
spokeswoman declined to comment.  Trevor Kavanagh, associate Sun editor, called the
investigation a  “witch hunt.”   Feeling Betrayed  “In what would at any other time cause uproar in
Parliament and among civil liberty and human rights campaigners,
its journalists are being treated like members of an organized
crime gang,” Kavanagh wrote in the Sun on Feb. 13. While News
Corp. is right to hand over evidence, some reporters have been
held “for simply doing their jobs,” he said.  Journalists at News Corp.’s U.K. unit, News International,
feel betrayed after seeing their colleagues arrested and being
subject to record searches by agents of the MSC, three people in
the newsroom said on condition of anonymity. Police officers as
well as reporters from other newspapers, including the Evening
Standard, have also been arrested.  Murdoch began digging through his employees’ pasts after
the 168-year-old News of the World was shut down in July because
journalists hacked into the phone voice mail of politicians,
celebrities and murdered schoolgirl  Milly Dowler . News Corp.’s
Times newspaper in Britain is being investigated by police over
possible computer hacking by a reporter.  ‘Nothing Disreputable’  Paying for stories is common practice and “has been
standard procedure as long as newspapers have existed,”
Kavanagh said. “There is nothing disreputable about it. And, as
far as we know at this point, nothing illegal.”  The National Union of Journalists has spoken to lawyers
John Hendy and  Geoffrey Robertson , to advise on legal measures
to challenge the MSC, General Secretary Michelle Stanistreet
said today. She encouraged reporters to join the union in a
statement on the NUJ’s website.  Some of the Sun staff briefly considered a walkout, though
that plan has been abandoned because people are concerned about
keeping their jobs, one of the people said. Employees are
currently represented by the News International Staff
Association.  Confronting The Unions  Murdoch is no stranger to public outcry and confrontation
with unions. In the mid-1980s, he faced down labor unions
resisting the introduction of new technology after secretly
establishing a new production plant at Wapping in east  London .
His victory in the dispute changed Britain’s newspaper industry.  Murdoch this month reaffirmed his “total commitment to
continue to own and publish the Sun,” according to a company
memo to the tabloid’s workers.  Reporters will get legal fees paid until they are convicted
of a crime. The News International Staff Association negotiated
the deal, a change from the company’s original offer to pay
staff legal bills only until they were charged with a crime,
national chairman  Nick Jones , said in an interview.  The tabloid culture in the U.K. led to aggressive reporting
techniques, said Neville Thurlbeck, the former News of the World
chief reporter, who has been arrested, and not charged, in
connection with the phone-hacking investigation.  “You were only as good as your last story,” he said in an
interview on Feb. 13 at his home. “Once your competitive edge
was blunted, through age or boredom, then it was time to go.”  ‘No Respect’  Following the News of the World closing, Murdoch and his
son James, the former chairman of the News International
publishing unit and now deputy chief operating officer of News
Corp., had to appear before Parliament to explain how much they
knew. U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  sponsored another
inquisition, led by Judge Brian Leveson, into press ethics that
is ongoing and may lead to new rules to discipline the media.  The panel has interviewed celebrities and newspapers
executives as well as people who say they were victims of an
overly aggressive tabloid culture, such as the family of
Madeleine McCann, a toddler who went missing during a holiday to
 Portugal .  “There was absolutely no respect shown for me as a
grieving mother, or for my daughter,” Madeleine’s mother, Kate McCann, told the inquiry in November as she described hearing in
2008 that the News of the World had apparently obtained a copy
of her diary from Portuguese police. “I had written these words
at the most desperate time of my life, and it was my only way of
communicating with Madeleine,” she said.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  