-- Russia to Help Vietnam Produce Anti-Ship Missiles, RIA Says
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-02-16T05:05:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/russia-to-help-vietnam-produce-anti-ship-missiles-ria-says-1-.html
Russia  and  Vietnam  plan to begin
jointly producing an anti-ship missile this year, RIA Novosti
reported, a development that would mark the Southeast Asian
nation’s latest move to boost its coastal defenses.  The weapon will be based on Russia’s Uran subsonic anti-
ship missile, the state-run news service cited the head of
Russia’s Federal Service for Military-Technical Cooperation,
Mikhail Dmitriyev, as saying. It would have a range of 250
kilometers (155 miles) and could be fired from helicopters,
ships and land, according to the report.  “These anti-ship missiles are a very important capability
for the Vietnamese to possess given the growing power of the
Chinese navy,” said Ian Storey, senior fellow at the Institute
of Southeast Asian Studies in  Singapore . “They don’t change the
balance of power in the region, but they are a significant
development for Vietnam.”  Vietnam has acquired submarines and aircraft as it
modernizes its military to assert sovereignty in waters off its
coast that are  also claimed by China  and may contain oil and gas
reserves. Chinese vessels last year chased away survey ships
doing work in the  South China Sea  for Vietnam and the
 Philippines , which is also boosting its maritime defenses.  Vietnam’s Ministry of  Foreign Affairs  didn’t immediately
respond to faxed questions about the news report.  Lacking Capability  The missiles Vietnam and Russia plan to produce lack the
capabilities of the anti-ship ballistic missiles under
development in  China , Storey said. The Pentagon has expressed
concern that China’s technology may threaten the dominance of
U.S. naval forces in the Pacific region.  Oil reserves in the South China Sea, which contains two
disputed island chains, may total as much as 213 billion
barrels, according to Chinese studies cited in 2008 by the U.S.
Energy Information Agency. The Paracels are fully controlled by
China, which ousted fellow claimant Vietnam from the 30 islets
and reefs in a 1974 battle in which 71 soldiers were killed.  Russia has been Vietnam’s main supplier of weapons,
accounting for more than 80 percent of its arms imports between
1990 and 2010, according to  data  compiled by the Stockholm
International Peace Research Institute. In 2010, Vietnam spent
$2.4 billion on defense, compared with China’s estimated $114
billion, Sipri statistics show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  