-- Russian Economy Set to Slow on Lending Curbs, Capital Outflows, S&P Says
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-02-16T08:49:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/russia-gdp-to-grow-3-5-this-year-slow-in-second-half-s-p-says.html
Russia’s economy will remain
“dynamic” in the first half before losing steam in the final
six months because the central bank will try to curb lending,
 Standard & Poor’s  said.  Bank Rossii will probably try to slow credit growth in the
second half to reduce  inflation  risks from an increase in
electricity and gas prices that was pushed to July 1, the
credit-rating company said in a report today. Limited access to
bank loans and higher borrowing costs may curtail corporate
investment from mid-year, according to the report.  “Following 4.2 percent growth in 2011, we think the
slowdown will lead to GDP growth of about 3.5 percent for the
full year,” Jean-Michel Six, chief economist for  Europe  at S&P,
said in the report.  The world’s largest energy exporter last year returned to
output levels achieved before a 7.8 percent contraction in 2009
as the global financial crisis shackled credit flows and hurt
demand for commodities. Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin , who is
seeking to return as president in a March 4 election, has said
Russia must grow by at least 6 percent annually to become one of
the world’s five largest economies in terms of purchasing power.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  of 30 stocks retreated 1.1 percent to
1,562.44 at 12:26 p.m. in Moscow. The ruble weakened for a third
day against the dollar, dropping 1 percent to 30.295 against the
U.S. currency.  Military, Pensions  Consumer demand, supported by increases in military
salaries and pensions this year, will help support the economy
in the first half, S&P said. Net  capital outflows  of $84 billion
last year, the second-highest on record, will probably continue
to weigh on growth, according to the report.  “It is difficult in our opinion to see what would slow
this rise in capital outflows in 2012,” Six said. “Political
uncertainties at home won’t necessarily disappear immediately
after the presidential elections. There will still be many
questions relative to the pace at which the new government will
be ready to undertake structural reforms.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  