-- Saint-Gobain Sees Moderate Growth as Profit Misses Estimates
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-02-16T18:32:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/saint-gobain-sees-moderate-growth-as-profit-misses-estimates.html
Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA , Europe’s
biggest supplier of building materials, said revenue growth will
slow this year as Europe’s economic slump may force it to shut
some outlets and book more charges.  Revenue growth excluding exchange rates and acquisitions
will slow from last year’s 5 percent, and will be “driven
mainly by the increase in sales prices needed to offset the rise
in raw-material and energy costs,” Chief Executive Officer
Pierre-Andre de Chalendar said on a conference call with
journalists today. “Operating income and profitability should
prove resilient,” he said in a separate statement.  Net income rose 14 percent in 2011 to 1.28 billion euros
($1.68 billion) last year as Saint-Gobain took a 383 million-
euro charge to write down the value of its U.S. gypsum business
and to close some distribution sites in Southern and Eastern
 Europe , the company based in Courbevoie near Paris said in a
statement today. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had  expected  on
average a profit of 1.64 billion euros.  “There will clearly be a need for extra adjustment
programs, notably in Southern countries” in 2012, Chief
Financial Officer Laurent Guillot said on the call. The
adjustments may include the shutdown of production lines or
plants as well as retail outlets, de Chalendar said.  In 2011, the company’s operating profit rose 10 percent to
3.44 billion euros as it slashed costs and increased prices to
offset raw-material price inflation.  The impact of rising raw material and energy prices on the
company may be around 450 million euros in 2012, following an
impact “close” to 700 million euros in 2011, the CEO said.  The planned sale of a minority stake of its Verallia
packaging unit, which was cancelled last year, remains “on
hold” for now because “markets are not ready” for it, de
Chalendar said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  