-- Sarkozy Accuses Socialist Hollande of Lying as French Campaign Kicks Off
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-02-17T10:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/sarkozy-pledges-referendums-if-needed-at-first-presidential-campaign-rally.html
President  Nicolas Sarkozy , holding
his first election campaign rally, accused Socialist candidate
 Francois Hollande  of lying, and pledged to give the French a
greater say in decisions affecting their lives with referendums.  “When you tell the English press that you are for free-
markets, and then tell the French your enemy is finance, you are
lying to the French,” Sarkozy said last night at a rally 
in the Alpine town of Annecy.  Sarkozy, 57, France’s most unpopular incumbent president,
made several digs at Hollande yesterday, without naming him.
Hollande in his opening campaign speech Jan. 22 had called
finance his “greatest adversary,” comments he toned down
during a lunch with English-speaking reporters.  Hollande, in an interview on TF1 television last night
responded by accusing Sarkozy of “falsification, caricature and
manipulation.” He said he maintained that he didn’t want  France 
to “submit to finance gone crazy.”  The attacks come 66 days before the first round of
elections on April 22, with the top two candidates facing off
May 6. A poll today showed Hollande’s lead narrowing after
Sarkozy’s Feb. 15 announcement that he’s seeking a second term.  Hollande, a lawmaker from central France who has never held
a Cabinet post, would defeat Sarkozy by 56 percent to 44 percent
in the runoff, according to the BVA survey for RTL Radio and a
group of newspapers. That’s down from 57 percent to 43 percent
in a Jan. 29 survey.  Sarkozy, whose campaign slogan is “A Strong France,” said
Hollande’s plans to cut the  retirement age  and hire more civil
servants are populist efforts to keep unpalatable truths away
from the nation’s people and would weaken France.  Referendums  “The president expects the media impact of his official
announcement to allow him to recover in the polls and more
effectively attack Hollande, especially in one-on-one debates,
where Sarkozy has a clear advantage,”  Antonio Barroso , an
analyst at Eurasia Group in  London , said in a note. “The race
is likely to become tighter as the election date approaches.”  Sarkozy has trailed Hollande in every poll, risking
becoming the eighth euro-area leader to be ousted since 2010,
following those in Ireland,  Portugal ,  Greece ,  Italy ,  Spain ,
Slovenia and Slovakia, and being the second French president
after Valery Giscard D’Estaing to lose a re-election bid.  In his speech, Sarkozy pledged to respond to the anger of
French citizens who feel powerless, saying that he’ll call
referendums if needed on job training and illegal immigration.  “There are more and more French from the working and
middle classes who increasingly feel they no longer control
their lives,” Sarkozy said at a rally attended by 4,000 people
at a theater in the outskirts of Annecy. “They feel that
everything gets decided without them, that they are at the mercy
of speculators from the other side of the world.”  Europe’s Crisis  He said last night he’d call popular votes if parliament
refuses to pass two laws he’s backing, one that would force all
long-term unemployed on state aid to undergo job training, and
another that would give a single judge the power to expel
illegal immigrants.  Sarkozy announced in a television interview two days ago
that he’ll seek a second term, pledging to focus on fighting
unemployment, modernizing the country’s economy, and seeing
France through  Europe ’s fiscal crisis.  “The greatest risk would be continuing as if nothing
needed to be done, as if we could just continue as before,” he
said last night.  Earlier in the day, Sarkozy went from shop to shop in the
old town of Annecy to talk to customers and shop owners, before
having lunch with a selection of local citizens. He then visited
a cheese factory before attending the evening rally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Annecy, France, at  gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  