-- Saudi Aramco to Re-Open Oldest Field to Tap Heavy Oil, EIU
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2012-02-16T16:30:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/saudi-aramco-to-re-open-oldest-field-to-tap-heavy-oil-eiu-says.html
Saudi Arabian Oil Co. plans to re-
open the Gulf kingdom’s oldest oil field and produce there for
the first time in 30 years as the company boosts output of heavy
crude, the Economist Intelligence Unit said.  The state-owned producer, known as  Saudi Aramco , may revive
a plan from 2008 to restore production at the mothballed Dammam
field, the EIU said in a report. Dammam contains some 500
million barrels of oil and may yield as much as 100,000 barrels
a day of Arabian Heavy crude, according to the report.  “Dammam field including Dammam Well 7 can operate easily
with current technology and Saudi Aramco conducted a 3-D seismic
survey over the entire area almost 10 years ago,” Sadad al- Husseini said today by e-mail. Al-Husseini was executive vice
president for exploration and development at Saudi Aramco.  Dammam field today is surrounded by metropolitan areas and
Husseini said if the field is re-activated, he’s sure Saudi
Aramco will do it “in the most modern, environmentally
sensitive and professional manner that least affects the
adjacent community.”  Aramco, the world’s largest oil exporter, is considering
redeveloping the onshore field in response to “tight market
conditions,” the London-based researcher said in the report
issued yesterday. It shut Dammam, and several small fields, in
the early 1980s due to low demand. Officials at Aramco’s
headquarters in Dhahran,  Saudi Arabia , didn’t answer phone calls
seeking comment today, the first day of the Saudi weekend.  Dammam Shutdown  Saudi Aramco shut in the entire Dammam field, including
Dammam Well 7, in the early 1980s because oil demand dropped in
the first two years following the Iranian Revolution in 1979
from 10 million barrels a day to as low as 3 million barrels a
day, Husseini said.  “We simply didn’t need small fields like Dammam, and in
fact shut in fully or partially many other fields including
Khurais, Khursaniya, Qatif, Abu Hadriya, Harmaliyah and several
others,” said Husseini who founded and runs  Husseini Energy , an
independent energy consultant in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia.  Saudi Arabia, which holds the world’s largest proven oil
reserves, pumped 9.65 million barrels a day in January,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The country discovered
its first commercial quantities of oil at Dammam Well 7, known
as the “Prosperity Well,” in 1938. Dammam 7 produced about 32
million barrels of oil before it closed, Aramco Chief Executive
Officer Khalid Al-Falih said May 19 in Washington, D.C.  Aramco is also speeding up a project to increase capacity
for heavy crude at the Manifa field in the  Persian Gulf .
Additional production from Manifa, the world’s fifth-largest oil
field, will help maintain Aramco’s maximum sustainable oil
production capacity at 12 million barrels a day, Aramco said in
June in its 2010 annual review.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Khobar, Saudi Arabia at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  on   sev@bloomberg.net . 