-- SecondMarket Expands to Bank Shares in Wake of Facebook IPO
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-02-16T22:46:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/secondmarket-expands-to-bank-shares-in-wake-of-facebook-ipo.html
SecondMarket Inc., the private
shares marketplace that rose to prominence through its
relationship with Facebook Inc., is expanding into the secondary
market for bank shares.  The firm began a trial program today in  New York ,  New
Jersey ,  Texas  and  Pennsylvania  to create a secondary market for
shares of closely held community banks, according to Caryn
Feinberg, SecondMarket’s senior vice president. The effort is
designed to give banks new avenues to raise capital and provide
a “robust” new marketplace for the company, Feinberg said in a
telephone interview.  “We as a company really look to try and find
inefficiencies in the market and try to help create capital
solutions,” said Feinberg, who is leading the trial program.
“That’s exactly what we think we’re doing with this product.”  The expansion comes as New York-based  SecondMarket  seeks to
make up for the loss of closely-held stock trading volume that
will come with Facebook’s initial public offering.  The pilot
program, which Feinberg said will involve about six lenders,
represents the company’s first attempt to tap community banks
searching for ways to raise capital in the wake of the subprime
mortgage crisis and an uncertain regulatory environment after
the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act.  ‘Frustratingly Slow’  “The recovery has been frustratingly slow” for smaller
lenders despite signs of improvement in the economy, Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said today at a community
banking conference in Arlington,  Virginia , adding that “actual
and prospective changes in the regulatory landscape have also
raised concerns among community bankers.”  SecondMarket, which started its platform for trading
private shares in 2009 and completed  $558 million  in
transactions last year, is trying to tap into that market,
Feinberg said. The pilot program will give banks the chance to
decide when their shares will trade and who can trade them.  Secondary exchanges like those run by SecondMarket and
competitors such as SharesPost Inc. and Gate Technologies LLC
allow investors and employees of closely held firms sell shares
without companies having to pursue an IPO.  For banks facing increased pressure to raise capital, the
platforms may provide another avenue for generating funding. The
banking industry continues to recover from a financial crisis
that has led to more than 400  bank failures  since the beginning
of 2008. The decision on where to hold the pilot program was
driven by locations where banks were among the healthiest,
Feinberg said.  Limited Options  Investors may benefit from SecondMarket’s involvement by
gaining access to more prospective buyers when they want to
sell. Closely held banks currently provide limited options for
investors looking for ways to exit stock, said James Arnold,
executive vice president at Lubbock National Bank in Texas.  The inability to facilitate future stock transactions for
investors can create a “major obstacle to raising capital,”
Arnold, whose 95-year-old closely held bank has less than 200
shareholders, said in a telephone interview.  Feinberg said the firm has been exploring the shares of
closely held community banks for a little less than a year. If
the pilot is successful, it will expand to the broader market by
the end of the year, she said.  Washington Lobbying  The move into the community bank shares tracks with the
company’s decision last year to deploy lobbyists in  Washington 
last year to push the its interests. SecondMarket joined the
largest Washington-based bank trade groups in pushing for
legislation to increase the number of shareholders a bank can
have while staying private.  Lawmakers from both parties and both chambers of Congress
have embraced the idea, with members of the House and Senate
signing up to co-sponsor bills aimed at easing the rules for
closely held companies looking to raise capital. Both chambers
have held multiple hearings on the issue, with the House
Financial Services Committee moving first on the legislation.  Barry Silbert , SecondMarket’s 35-year-old chief executive
officer, said in December testimony before the Senate Banking
Committee that increasing the bank shareholder threshold was
among three measures that warranted “immediate passage by this
Congress.”  The House in November passed a measure to increase to 2,000
from 500 the shareholder threshold for closely held banks. The
Senate hasn’t moved forward on its own version of the
legislation, which has 10 bipartisan co-sponsors.  “As bank regulators demand higher capital levels,
community banks must be able to raise capital from more
shareholders without SEC registration,” Camden R. Fine, the
chief executive officer of the  Independent Community Bankers of
America , said in a November letter to senators urging passage of
the legislation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  