-- Singapore Economy Contracts at 2.5% Pace, Less Than Initially Estimated
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-02-16T03:49:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/singapore-economy-contracts-at-2-5-pace-less-than-initiallty-estimated.html
Singapore ’s economy shrank less than
initially estimated last quarter as a surge in pharmaceutical
production supported manufacturing at the year end.  Gross domestic product  fell an annualized 2.5 percent in
the fourth quarter of 2011 from the previous three months, less
than an initial estimate of a 4.9 percent decline, the trade
ministry said in a report today. Non-oil domestic exports will
probably rise 3 percent to 5 percent in 2012, the trade
promotion agency said in a separate statement, reiterating an
earlier forecast.  Asian nations from  China  to  India  have seen an improvement
in manufacturing this year, while Malaysia reported growth that
slowed less than economists estimated last quarter, suggesting
the region is withstanding the impact of the European debt
crisis. The gains may wane as  Europe  faces its second recession
in less than three years, maintaining pressure on Singapore’s
central bank to support expansion after it eased its policy
stance last quarter.  “It looks like the situation is improving but you cannot
deny that the risks emanating from the U.S. or Europe are still
there,” said Leslie Tang, an economist in Singapore at OSK-DMG,
a venture between Malaysian securities company OSK Holdings Bhd.
and Deutsche Bank AG. “There are signs of global inventory
restocking which may support manufacturing. It will still be in
the doldrums though.”  Currency Falls  The  Singapore dollar  fell 0.6 percent to S$1.2668 against
its U.S. counterpart at 11:30 a.m. local time today. The central
bank uses the  exchange rate  as a policy tool to manage inflation.  Asian stocks fell today, with the regional benchmark index
retreating from a six-month high, after a decision on a second
bailout for Greece was postponed, rekindling concern that
Europe’s crisis will crimp global demand. The MSCI Asia Pacific
Index dropped 1 percent as of 12:30 p.m. in  Tokyo . Singapore’s
benchmark  Straits Times Index (FSSTI)  fell 0.8 percent.  Singapore’s  economy grew  4.9 percent in 2011, faster than
an earlier estimate of 4.8 percent, the trade ministry said. The
government reiterated today its forecast for an expansion of 1
percent to 3 percent this year.  A surge in biomedical manufacturing output countered the
contraction in the electronics industry last year, while
construction was supported by public-sector building projects,
the trade ministry said. Services were aided by growth in the
finance, insurance and tourism-related businesses, it said.  Policy Moves  GDP increased 3.6 percent from a year earlier last quarter,
after rising a revised 6 percent the previous three months. The
expansion matched the January estimate.  Singapore’s near-term indicators aren’t pointing at an
“imminent rebound” in the economy, Ow Foong Pheng, permanent
secretary at the Ministry of Trade and Industry, told reporters
at a press conference today. Singapore’s monetary policy stance
remains appropriate, Edward Robinson, an assistant managing
director at the Monetary Authority of Singapore, said at the
same briefing.  The central bank had tightened monetary policy at each of
the three half-yearly reviews before its October decision to
slow gains in the currency while continuing with a modest and
gradual appreciation. It guides the local dollar against a
basket of currencies within an undisclosed band, and adjusts the
pace of appreciation or depreciation by changing the slope,
width and center of the band.  “The global economic outlook remains subdued,” the trade
ministry said. The U.S. recovery will be restrained by public
spending cuts and continued weakness in the housing market,
while the euro area’s economy “is expected to enter into a
recession as fiscal consolidation and bank deleveraging dampen
private demand,” it said.  ‘Downside Risks’  The current growth forecast for Singapore in 2012 doesn’t
factor in “downside risks emanating from abroad,” such as a
disorderly sovereign default in the euro area that could
precipitate a global financial crisis, and an escalation of geo-
political tension in the  Middle East  that could trigger a global
oil price shock, the trade ministry said.  Gross domestic product in the 17-nation euro area fell 0.3
percent from the prior three months, the first drop since the
second quarter of 2009, a report showed this week.  Singapore’s manufacturing rose 9.2 percent from a year
earlier in the three months ended Dec. 31, after climbing a
revised 13.7 percent in the third quarter, the trade ministry
said today.  The services industry grew 2.1 percent last quarter from a
year earlier, after gaining a revised 3.6 percent in the
previous three months. The construction industry expanded 2.9
percent.  “There seems to be some near-term stabilization signs but
it should not be taken as a concrete signal of sustained
demand,”  Vishnu Varathan , an economist at Mizuho Corporate Bank
Ltd. in Singapore, said before the report. “As fiscal austerity
plans in the  euro zone  intensify and with  Greece  still on the
edge, we don’t want to call a premature dawn.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  