-- Singapore Probes Potential Breaches by China Sky, Directors
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-02-16T10:18:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/singapore-probes-potential-criminal-breaches-by-china-sky-its-directors.html
China Sky Chemical Fibre Co. (CSCF)  and its
directors face a criminal probe into regulatory breaches in
 Singapore , one month after the city’s stock exchange dropped a
lawsuit against the company.  “The Monetary Authority of Singapore has received a report
from the  Singapore Exchange  on potential breaches of the
Securities and Futures Act” by China Sky, the regulator and the
police said in a joint statement today. MAS referred the
potential breaches to the Commercial Affairs Department,
Singapore’s main white-collar crime investigation agency.  The Singapore Exchange sued the Chinese nylon-fiber maker
on Jan. 6 to compel the appointment of a special auditor to
investigate “interested-party transactions,” a failed land
purchase and certain repair costs. Today’s statement didn’t
specify the breaches or the directors that are being
investigated.  “The matter now being in police hands is even more
worrying and suggests that it may be far more serious than
expected,” said David Gerald, president of the Securities
Investors Association of Singapore, which represents 70,000
retail investors. “The company’s not been explaining to
shareholders, who are trapped.”  China Sky’s lawyer Leonard Chia declined to comment on the
probe. The  Singapore Exchange (SGX)  said in an e-mailed statement it’s
not in a position to comment on the ongoing investigation. Both
the monetary authority and the police declined to comment beyond
their statement.  All three independent directors at China Sky quit Jan. 5,
citing non-compliance with the bourse’s order to name the
auditor.  Suit Withdrawn  The exchange withdrew the lawsuit on Jan. 16. The bourse
didn’t give a specific reason for dropping the complaint, saying
lawyers for both sides had met after the China Sky ignored the
deadline to appoint a special auditor.  On Feb. 8, China Sky Chief Executive Officer Huang Zhong
Xuan quit for “personal health reasons.” Two days later, group
financial controller Hui San Wing resigned, citing a lack of
leadership, guidance and support from the CEO and independent
directors.  Huang is China Sky’s biggest shareholder with a 37.8
percent  stake , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors have pressed for tougher rules as accounting
scandals wiped out millions of dollars in the market values of
China-based companies including  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE)  and led others
such as  FerroChina Ltd (FRC) . to be delisted. The exchange had accused
China Sky of “flagrant disregard” of its order to appoint a
special auditor.  Trading in China Sky shares has been suspended since Nov.
17, a day after the exchange first ordered the company to
appoint the special auditor. The shares closed trading on Nov.
16 at S$0.102, tumbling 96 percent from their peak of S$2.74 in
October 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  