-- Slovenia’s NLB Bank Reports 239 Million Euros Loss in 2011
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-02-16T14:35:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/slovenia-s-nlb-bank-reports-239-million-euros-loss-in-2011-1-.html
Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d.,
Slovenia’s biggest bank, posted its third consecutive loss last
year as it put away more money to cover bad loans.  The net loss of 239 million euros ($311 million) followed a
202 million-euro loss in 2010, the Ljubljana-based lender said
in a statement today. Reserves to cover bad loans amounted to
480 million euros, it said.  “Slovenia’s economy failed to gain momentum after the 2009
recession and this affected our portfolio,” outgoing Chief
Executive Officer Bozo Jasovic told reporters in Ljubljana
today. “There is a very difficult year ahead of us.”  Slovenian banks will see “even bigger” losses this year
as the economy slides into recession, the jobless rate rises and
corporate losses increase, central bank Governor Marko Kranjec
said last month.  Lenders in the country put aside 1.1 billion euros last
year due to asset writedowns and bad-loan reserves, the central
bank said in a Feb. 7 report. That pushed the after-tax loss by
the banking industry to 356 million euros, it said.  “The tendency of a  credit rating  cut for Slovenia will
probably lower our still-ample liquidity at the bank, ” Jasovic
said. “We are relying on ECB funding for our liquidity.”  Moody’s Investors Service cut the rating of Slovenia’s Nova
Ljubljanska Banka d.d. state-backed bonds to A2 from A1
following the cut on Slovenia’s sovereign rating of Feb. 13. The
outlook is negative.  “In comparison with other systems in central and eastern
 Europe , Slovenia has a large banking sector with total assets
equivalent to 136 percent of gross domestic product,” Moody’s
said in the statement. “Asset quality pressure and the euro
debt crisis are weighing on the sector’s solvency and threaten
its ability to continue to access private funding markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  