-- SocGen Fourth-Quarter Net Drops 89% on Investment Bank Loss
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2012-02-16T17:44:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/socgen-fourth-quarter-net-drops-89-on-investment-bank-loss-3-.html
Societe Generale SA (GLE) , France’s
second-largest bank, said fourth-quarter profit fell 89 percent
as the investment bank posted its first loss in two years.  Net income declined to 100 million euros ($130 million)
from 874 million euros a year earlier, the Paris-based bank said
in a statement today. That missed the 317 million-euro average
 estimate  of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Societe Generale’s corporate and investment bank had a 482
million-euro loss as Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis curbed
client trading and the bank sold and wrote down troubled assets.
 BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , the biggest French bank, reported yesterday that
pretax profit at its investment-banking unit plunged 99 percent.  “These results bear the burden of the crisis,” said
Christophe Nijdam, an analyst at AlphaValue in Paris who has an
“add” rating on Societe Generale. For both companies,  consumer
banking  “saved the day, while CIB is the stinker,” he said.  Like BNP, Societe Generale said it reached a 9 percent core
capital ratio at the end of 2011, six months before the European
Banking Authority’s deadline. Earnings from French consumer
banking amounted to 302 million euros in the quarter, unchanged
from a year earlier and missing analysts’ estimates. Profit at
the international retail unit fell 28 percent to 75 million
euros, missing analysts’ estimates for 142 million euros.  ECB Lending  Societe Generale rose 17.5 cents, or 0.8 percent, to 22.56
euros in Paris trading, reversing an early decline of as much as
5.1 percent. The stock has advanced 31 percent this year,
outpacing the 18 percent  gain  in BNP Paribas and the 12 percent
climb in Credit Agricole SA,  France ’s No. 3 bank by market
value.  Societe Generale reiterated that it doesn’t plan to pay a
dividend for 2011 as it accumulates capital.  European  financial stocks  rebounded in the first six weeks
of the year after the  European Central Bank  provided 489 billion
euros to lenders through a three-year refinancing operation in
December.  “The beginning of the year is better than expected, thanks
in particular to the decision of the central bank,” said
Societe Generale Chief Executive Officer  Frederic Oudea  in an
interview with Bloomberg Television. “There is more comfort
overall in the system.”  Societe Generale hasn’t decided whether to tap the ECB’s
next round of three-year funding at the end of this month, Oudea
said.  ‘Historically Low’  Societe Generale, which is cutting about 14 percent of its
corporate and investment-banking workforce in France after
shuffling the unit’s management, follows competitors including
Deutsche Bank AG of  Germany  and UBS AG of  Switzerland  in
reporting a loss at the division in the fourth quarter. The
French bank said “uncertainty, investor risk aversion and the
liquidity crisis” drove client-related activity to
“historically low levels” at the end of 2011.  The company had 605 million euros in writedowns and
provisions in the quarter related to revaluing its so-called
legacy assets, a portfolio of holdings left over from the U.S.
subprime crisis. It also wrote down its Greek sovereign debt
holdings by an additional 162 million euros in the period,
bringing provisioning on those bonds to 75 percent. Those costs
were counterbalanced by a 700 million-euro gain tied to a
decline in the value of its own debt.  Own-Debt Gains  Societe Generale over the past two years accumulated about
1.6 billion euros in gains on its own debt, according to data on
its website. These gains may reverse, weighing on future
earnings, Chief Financial Officer Bertrand Badre told reporters
at a press conference today, without giving a timeframe.  French banks have been embroiled in  Europe ’s debt crisis
because of their $620 billion in holdings of private and public
debt in  Greece ,  Portugal , Ireland,  Italy  and  Spain , according to
data from the  Bank for International Settlements .  Societe Generale, which had smaller Greek sovereign-bond
holdings than BNP Paribas, had 890 million euros in gross
writedowns on the country’s government debt last year. Societe
Generale also had 348 million euros of net losses last year from
Geniki Bank SA, its Athens-based branch network.  More than two years after Greece’s budget woes spawned
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis, the region’s leaders are still
struggling to bridge divisions over a rescue of the debt-ridden
country. As the clock ticked toward a possible default next
month, euro-area finance ministers extracted concessions from
political leaders in  Athens  intended to pave the way for the
endorsement of a 130 billion-euro aid package next week.  ‘Fragile Situation’  European officials may be ready to make a final decision on
aid on Feb. 20, Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker 
said in a statement after leading a conference call of finance
chiefs late yesterday.  “We’re still in a fragile situation,” said Oudea, 48.
“If something unexpected or disorganized takes place in Greece,
I think there will be some contingent effects on other
countries.”  Societe Generale, BNP Paribas and  Credit Agricole  in
September began trimming about 300 billion euros in assets to
comply with stricter capital rules after their stocks plunged
and U.S. money-market funds became reluctant to lend to them,
reducing their refinancing options in dollars.  ‘Legacy’ Assets  Societe Generale accelerated the reduction of its subprime-
era legacy assets, which declined from 33 billion euros at the
end of 2010 to about 17 billion euros at the end of last year,
the company said today. In the fourth quarter, the bank booked
524 million euros of revenue writedowns related mostly to
monoline exposure, unhedged collaterized debt obligations and
losses on exotic  credit derivatives , it said. The subprime-
related assets also led to 81 million euros in fourth-quarter
provisions, about half for securities tied to U.S. residential
mortgages.  Within the legacy-asset pool, non-investment grade assets
amounted to 4.9 billion euros at the end of December, including
2.9 billion euros in U.S. residential mortgage-backed securities
and CDOs of U.S. RMBS, the bank said.  Separately, Societe Generale last year sold 6 billion euros
of corporate-loan portolios at an average discount of about 2
percent, the bank said. The company is seeking to sell more
corporate-banking loan portfolios this year with discounts below
5 percent, Deputy CEO Severin Cabannes said on the sidelines of
today’s press meeting. Cabannes declined to give an amount or to
identify which loan books are up for sale.  Lower Revenue  Reducing corporate lending will dent the corporate and
investment bank’s annual revenue by 500 million euros to 750
million euros, Cabannes said. As a result of the corporate-
financing reductions, the division’s revenue will be
“structurally” below the 2 billion-euro quarterly sales goal
Societe Generale had before it announced the asset cuts in
September, Cabannes said.  Societe Generale last year set off plans to cut its risk-
weighted assets by as much as 80 billion euros, about half by
scaling back the corporate and investment bank and half from
business disposals. Oudea said today that Societe Generale still
plans to free up 4 billion euros in capital by the end of 2013
by selling businesses.  “There are processes which are ongoing,” Oudea said in
today’s interview, declining to identify any businesses the bank
may shed. “It is going to take some time,” the CEO said,
adding that a return of confidence in the euro-zone may help
speed up Societe Generale’s disposals plans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  