-- SocGen Profit Drops After Investment Bank Reports First Loss in Two Years
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2012-02-16T08:38:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/societe-generale-quarterly-net-drops-89-after-investment-bank-posts-loss.html
Societe Generale SA (GLE) , France’s
second-largest bank, said fourth-quarter profit fell 89 percent
as the investment bank posted its first loss in two years.  Societe Generale fell as much as 3.8 percent in Paris
trading after reporting  net income  of 100 million euros ($130
million), down from 874 million euros a year earlier and less
than the 317 million-euro average  estimate  of 14 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Societe Generale’s corporate and investment bank had a 482
million-euro loss as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis curbed
client trading and the bank sold and wrote down troubled assets,
the Paris-based company said in a statement today.  BNP Paribas
SA (BNP) , the biggest French bank, reported yesterday that pretax
profit at its investment-banking unit plunged 99 percent.  “These results bear the burden of the crisis,” said
Christophe Nijdam, an analyst at AlphaValue in Paris who has an
“add” rating on Societe Generale. For both companies, consumer
banking “saved the day, while CIB is the stinker,” he said.  Like BNP, Societe Generale said it reached a 9 percent core
capital ratio at the end of 2011, six months before the European
Banking Authority’s deadline. Earnings from French consumer
banking amounted to 302 million euros in the quarter, unchanged
from a year earlier. Profit at the international retail unit
fell 28 percent to 75 million euros.  Societe Generale fell 82 cents, or 3.7 percent, to 21.56
euros by 9:37 a.m. in Paris, paring its 2012  gain  to 26 percent.
BNP Paribas has  advanced  12 percent this year, and  Credit
Agricole  SA, France’s No. 3 bank by market value, climbed 7
percent.  ECB Lending  European  financial stocks  rebounded in the first six weeks
of the year after the  European Central Bank  provided 489 billion
euros to lenders through a three-year refinancing operation in
December. The central bank plans to offer more such loans at the
end of February.  “There is more comfort in the system” because of the
ECB’s long-term lending, said Societe Generale Chief Executive
Officer  Frederic Oudea  in an interview with Bloomberg
Television. “We need to add successes in this path to
restoration of confidence.”  Societe Generale, which is cutting about 14 percent of its
corporate and investment-banking workforce in  France  after
shuffling the unit’s management, follows competitors including
Deutsche Bank AG of  Germany  and UBS AG of Switzerland in
reporting a loss at the division in the fourth quarter.  ‘Historically Low Levels’  “Substantial uncertainty, investor risk aversion and the
liquidity crisis resulted in a gradual reduction in client-
driven activity, which reached historically low levels at the
end of the year,” the French bank said in the statement today.  French banks have been embroiled in Europe’s crisis because
of their $620 billion in holdings of private and public debt in
 Greece , Portugal, Ireland, Italy and  Spain , according to data
from the Bank for International Settlements.  Societe Generale, BNP Paribas and Credit Agricole in
September began trimming about 300 billion euros in assets to
comply with stricter capital rules after their stocks plunged
and U.S. money-market funds became reluctant to lend to them,
reducing their refinancing options in dollars.  Societe Generale in December picked Didier Valet, chief
financial officer since 2008, to replace  Michel Peretie  as head
of the corporate and investment bank. The unit accounted for
about 43 percent of the bank’s earnings between 2000 and 2011,
according to an internal memo obtained by Bloomberg News last
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  