-- Solvay Earnings Miss Analyst Estimates on Plastics Cutbacks
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-02-16T08:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/solvay-earnings-miss-analyst-estimates-on-plastics-cutbacks-1-.html
Solvay SA (SOLB) , the chemicals and
plastics maker that bought Rhodia SA, reported fourth-quarter
earnings that  missed  analysts’ estimates because of cutbacks in
production amid falling demand for PVC plastic and polyamides.  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortization
and one-time items in the three months through December fell 23
percent to 355 million euros ($462 million) assuming Rhodia had
been acquired a year earlier, Brussels-based Solvay said today
in a statement. Analyst projected earnings of 400.6 million
euros, the average of eight estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “Priority was given to cash generation and in particular
reduction of inventory,” Solvay said in the statement. “The
slowdown in production negatively impacted the results.”  Confronted with an economic contraction in  Europe  and
floods affecting customers in  Thailand  in the final months of
last year, Solvay said market conditions seem to progressively
recover after production cuts erased about 50 million euros from
quarterly profit. Rhodia’s earnings proved more resilient than
Solvay’s plastics and chemicals divisions, led by price
increases for rare earths, silica and surfactants used in oil
production.  Solvay generated 184 million euros of cash not required for
reinvestment in the quarter, a 61 percent increase from the same
period a year earlier, and reduced  net debt  to 1.76 billion
euros at the end of last year. The company will maintain its
distribution to shareholders, with a proposal for a final
dividend of 1.87 euros a share.  The fourth-quarter  net loss  widened to 23 million euros
from 2 million euros a year earlier as Solvay took a 160
million-euro writedown on Rhodia’s inventories, booked 33
million euros of transaction costs related to the purchase and
an additional 15 million euros of reorganization costs linked to
Solvay’s Horizon project.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  