-- Solvay Rises as Executives See Demand Recovery: Brussels Mover
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-02-16T13:27:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/solvay-rises-as-executives-see-demand-recovery-brussels-mover.html
Solvay SA (SOLB) , the chemicals maker that
bought Rhodia SA, rose to the highest value in five months in
Brussels after saying it’s seeing a demand recovery in units
where it curbed output to clear inventory in the fourth quarter.  Solvay  gained  as much as 7.9 percent to 84.57 euros on
Euronext Brussels, the highest since September, erasing an
earlier decline. The stock traded 4.57 euros higher at 82.97
euros by 2:20 p.m. local time.  “We’re seeing signs that the first quarter will develop in
a bit more favorable environment than the last part of 2011,”
Deputy Chief Executive Officer Jean-Pierre Clamadieu told
reporters in Brussels today. “Today we see that effects of
destocking are not there anymore and that demand is improving,”
said Jacques Van Rijckevorsel, who heads the plastic unit.  Facing declining demand for polyvinyl chloride and
polyamide plastics, Solvay made production cutbacks to clear
inventories, which erased about 50 million euros ($65 million)
from fourth-quarter profit. The reduction helped the company to
generate 184 million euros of cash not required for reinvestment
in the final three months of last year, a 61 percent increase
from a year earlier, and  net debt  fell to 1.76 billion euros.  Clamadieu said Solvay will continue “tight” management
for cash this year and said he’s confident that the company will
continue to generate  free cash flow , forecasting 2012 capital
spending of 862 million euros.  ‘Further Improvement’  Fourth-quarter earnings before interest, tax, depreciation,
amortization and one-time items fell 23 percent to 355 million
euros, assuming Rhodia had been acquired a year earlier, Solvay
said in the statement today. Analysts had projected earnings of
400.6 million euros, according to the average of eight estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Rhodia’s earnings proved more resilient than Solvay’s
plastics and chemicals divisions, dropping only 3 percent in the
quarter. Clamadieu denied that Rhodia’s profit reached a peak
last year after market prices for rare earths being passed on to
customers from lower-cost inventories inflated earnings.  “We’re not starting the year with the feeling 2011 was a
peak year,” he said. “We think there’s certainly some
potential for further improvement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  