-- South Africa Sends Army to End Rioting at Largest Platinum Mine
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-02-16T16:40:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/south-africa-sends-army-to-end-rioting-at-mine.html
South Africa sent troops to end
rioting at the world’s largest platinum mine after owner  Impala
Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  asked for government help to stop
violence stemming from an illegal strike that has halted output.  Protesters set fire to cars overnight, barricading the main
road to Sun City, a resort within the platinum-producing region
near Rustenburg, Impala Chief Executive Officer  David Brown  said
today. The police presence at the mine has been inadequate,
failing to end attacks and intimidation and prompting a request
to the Security Minister to intervene, he said.  While strikes aren’t rare in South Africa, and can be
violent at times, it’s unusual for the military to be involved,
Wayne McCurrie, a  fund manager  at Johannesburg-based RMB Asset
Management, said by phone today. “That’s reminiscent of the
1980s” when the apartheid system imposed by the then minority
white government was still in place, he said.  Impala last week fired 17,200 workers at the mine, which
accounts for about 12 percent of global production of platinum,
used in jewelry and cars. The disruption has caused lost output
of 60,000 ounces worth about 1.2 billion rand ($153 million) as
of Feb. 14, Brown told reporters on a conference call. The mine
came to a halt Jan. 30 and it may take a further three or four
weeks to restore operations, curbing global supplies, he said.  Impala fell 4 percent to 158.15 rand by the close in
Johannesburg, the lowest in more than two years. The six-member
 FTSE/JSE Africa Platinum Mining Index (JPLAT)  dropped 3.1 percent.  Looting, Intimidation  South African National Defence force members arrived at the
mine today, National Union of Mineworkers’ regional manager
Vuyani Sydwell Dolokwana said from the site. The military joined
police outside the Impala mine to try and stop protesters
looting, blocking roads and intimidating those who want to
return to work, Dolokwana said.  Impala will continue talks with the NUM, the only union
recognized at the mine, to try to resolve the dispute, Brown
said. An illegal strike by about 5,000 rock-drill operators over
pay last month prompted a wider stoppage.  The situation has “political undertones” and also stems
from inter-union rivalry, Brown said. The Association of
Mineworkers and Construction Union is trying to gain members at
the site, he said.  The AMCU didn’t cause the violence, General Secretary Jeff
Mphahlele said in an interview today. While AMCU didn’t call the
strike, it has recruited a “large percentage” of Impala
workers in Rustenburg, he said. “People are sick and tired of
NUM,” he said.  Platinum Target  NUM is the country’s largest labor grouping and represents
most of  South Africa ’s mineworkers. It’s an affiliate of the
Congress of South African Trade Unions, a member of the African
National Congress-led ruling alliance since 1994. The ANC is due
to hold leadership elections in December.  The mine, which accounts for half of Impala’s total
production and about two-thirds of its profit, probably won’t
make its target of producing 915,000 to 920,000 ounces this
year, Brown said. Impala produces about 25 percent of global
platinum output, mostly in South Africa, the nation with the
world’s largest reserves.  Impala has rehired 6,000 workers, allowing operations to
“tentatively restart” in certain areas, Brown said. “I’d say
another three to four weeks would probably give us an indication
of trying to get everyone back to work and getting people up and
running,” he said.  Impala’s Profit  Impala’s first-half production fell 21 percent to 356,000
ounces of refined platinum after volumes from third parties
declined 48 percent, the company said today in a statement.
Large producers such as Impala buy concentrate from other
companies to add to smelters. The company also smelts the
material on behalf of other operators for a fee.  Impala also lost about 33,000 ounces through an increase in
government-ordered safety stops.  Still, adjusted earnings climbed 67 percent to 5.73 rand a
share in the six months through December, the company said. The
mean  estimate  of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for
adjusted earnings of 5.35 rand a share.  While the average dollar platinum price increased 1.7
percent to $1,654.33 an ounce in the six-month period, the rand
price of the metal advanced 8.5 percent as the local currency
depreciated.  Platinum may trade at $1,450 to $1,800 an ounce in the next
year while palladium may trade at $600 to $850 an ounce,
Marketing Executive Derek Engelbrecht said in Johannesburg
today. There may be a 335,000-ounce platinum deficit and a
980,000-ounce palladium shortage this year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Cooke nee Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  