-- Spain Says $31 Billion Power-System Debt Burden Must Be Shared
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-02-16T15:33:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/spain-says-31-billion-power-system-debt-burden-must-be-shared.html
Spanish utilities, energy consumers
and the government will need to share the 24 billion-euro ($31
billion) debt burden run up by the nation’s power system,
according to Industry Minister Jose Manuel Soria.  “There has to be a distribution of the burden,” Soria
said in a speech in  Madrid . The debt can be covered by “power
bills, utilities’ balance sheets or the public accounts.”  The minister is wrestling with the power system’s mounting
liabilities, which are excluded from public borrowing figures
even as they are guaranteed by the state. Soria must divide an
annual deficit from the system of about 4 billion euros between
power companies and consumers to prevent debt growing further.  As a first step, he froze new subsidies for renewable power
plants last month, saying it would save about 160 million euros
a year. Current subsidies cost consumers about 7 billion euros.  Costs have grown in the past five years on rising regulated
payments for the  power grid , support for Spanish coal mines and
subsidies for renewable energy plants. Revenue from state-
controlled prices failed to cover the cost of delivering power.  While the government is working on more measures to rein in
debt, it isn’t planning a levy on hydropower or nuclear plants,
nor will it take on power-system liabilities, Soria said.  Spain was an early mover in developing renewable energy
plants, and support for  wind energy  helped  Iberdrola SA (IBE)  become
the world’s biggest producer of clean power, with plants in the
U.S. and Brazil. The industry sustains about 110,000 Spanish
jobs, according to the Renewable Energy Producers Association.  Competing Priorities  Germany  last month said it will phase out support for solar
panels by 2017 and U.K. Energy Minister  Greg Barker  said his
country will reduce subsidies every six months and extend the
cuts should installations exceed government targets.  Spain is struggling with competing priorities as it seeks
to convince investors it can meet a target to lower its  budget
deficit  to 4.4 percent of gross domestic product this year, from
about 8 percent last year, while simultaneously trying to create
jobs in a country where 23 percent of workers are unemployed.  Generating capacity is about twice  Spain ’s peak demand
after a boom in investment in solar panel installations and
combined-cycle gas-fired plants, while the country is ahead of
its targets for clean power production, Soria said last month.
The suspension won’t affect operating plants or projects that
have been approved for subsidies by the government, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  