-- Spain Says Slump May Deepen in 2012 in Relapse to Recession
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-02-16T15:03:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/spain-economy-shrinks-as-unemployment-austerity-weigh-on-demand.html
Spain’s economy  may contract more in
the first quarter than in the last three months of 2011, Deputy
Economy Minister Fernando Jimenez Latorre said, as the economy
edges towards its second recession in as many years.  Spain ’s gross domestic product fell 0.3 percent in the
fourth quarter, as household and public spending declined, the
Madrid-based National Statistics Institute said today. It rose
0.3 percent from a year earlier.  “Current estimates for this quarter suggest it will be the
same as last quarter or a little worse,” Jimenez Latorre said
at a news conference in Madrid. The  economy  could reach a
turning point around the middle of the year, he said.  The Bank of Spain forecasts the economy will contract 1.5
percent this year as deepening budget cuts worsen the downturn.
Spain missed its deficit target in 2011 and has committed to
reducing the shortfall by almost half this year.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  has already raised taxes and
cut public spending by 15 billion euros ($19 billion) and needs
to find another 25 billion euros of savings, according to
Moody’s Investors Service.  While slashing the budget, the two month-old People’s Party
government is also trying to reduce the 23 percent unemployment
rate, the highest in the European Union. Household consumption
fell 1 percent in the last three months of 2011, INE said today.  “It is expected families’ spending will fall this year due
to unemployment and the impact of fiscal consolidation,” Rajoy
said on Feb. 8.  European Union Economic and Monetary Commissioner  Olli Rehn 
urged Spain on Feb. 14 to spell out how it will narrow its
budget  gap  in 2012, after the government said the shortfall came
in at about 8 percent of GDP last year instead of the 6 percent
target.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  