-- Spain Aims to Avoid Funding Gaps as Regional Governments Face Redemptions
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-02-16T13:58:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/spain-aims-to-avoid-funding-gaps-as-regional-governments-face-redemptions.html
Spain ’s central government is in
talks with cash-starved regions facing debt redemptions to
ensure they have sufficient funds, Deputy Economy Minister
Fernando Jimenez Latorre said.  Spanish ministers approved a  credit line  of as much as 15
billion euros ($19 billion) on Feb. 2 for regions to help them
pay bills to suppliers and meet debt payments through June. The
state-run Official Credit Institute, or ICO in Spanish, will
organize the facility and offer a similar loan to
municipalities.  “We are in contact with the regions that have the closest
debt redemptions,” Jimenez Latorre told reporters in Madrid
today. “What we want to avoid is any funding problem.”  The regions, which control about a third of public  spending 
and have accumulated  135 billion euros  of debt, have been shut
out of public bond markets while Valencia and others have been
downgraded to junk by Moody’s Investors Service. The government
in Madrid has pledged not to let any regions fail, even though
legislation forbids direct bailouts.  “Some regions would rather not use the ICO lines if they
see alternative funding in the markets,” Jimenez Latorre said.  The credit line will be offered in exchange for “strict
conditions,” Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said on Feb. 3.
Regions tapping the facility will have to present budget-cutting
plans and seek permission every time they take on debt, he said.
A similar facility for municipal governments may be approved as
soon as next week, Jimenez Latorre said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  