-- Stanleybet Says EU Ruling Shows Italy Erred Trying to Block It
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-02-16T13:04:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/stanleybet-says-eu-ruling-shows-italy-erred-trying-to-block-it.html
Stanleybet International Ltd., a
British sports-betting company, said a European Union court
ruling showed that the Italian government was wrong to seek to
block its business in the country.  The  European Court  of Justice, the region’s highest court,
said  Italy ’s system of awarding and withdrawing licenses to
sports-betting companies may be illegal, according to a ruling
today. An Italian rule setting minimum distances between
gambling outlets may not be justified if it prevents new
operators from starting up, the court said.  Today’s ruling “confirms once again that Stanleybet was
discriminated against by the Italian Republic,” said David
Purvis, chief executive officer for Liverpool, England-based
Stanleybet. It “must surely put an end to the unlawful
distortions, the discrimination and the unjust limitations of
the Italian licensing system.”  The EU’s top court in recent years has examined a series of
cases brought by betting companies including Bwin.Party Digital
Entertainment Plc,  Ladbrokes Plc (LAD)  and Betfair Ltd. over whether
it is legal for state monopolies to block them from operating
freely across the 27-nation region. Online gambling firms have
also called on the EU to take action against what they say are
unjustified national restrictions on cross-border online
gambling.  Italy was wrong to sanction two Stanleybet employees after
the company was blocked from bidding for a gambling license, the
EU court said. It also criticized Italy’s procedure for awarding
and withdrawing licenses as being unclear.  Final decisions on the legality of Italy’s gambling system
should be made by the Italian courts, the Luxembourg-based
tribunal said.  Italy introduced rules encouraging more foreign competition
in 2006. Licenses have been issued to companies including
Ladbrokes, the world’s biggest publicly traded betting firm, and
London-based bookmaker  William Hill Plc. (WMH)  Stanleybet didn’t
obtain one of these licenses.  Gambling is Italy’s third-biggest industry, worth 76.1
billion euros a year, according to a study by anti-mafia
association Libera last month.  The cases are C-72/10 Marcello Costa and C-77/10 Ugo
Cifone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  