-- Hillary Clinton Is Said to Rival Summers as Contender to Lead World Bank
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-02-16T08:46:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/summers-clinton-said-to-be-leading-contenders-for-world-bank.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and former White House economic adviser Lawrence Summers
are two leading candidates to succeed World Bank President
Robert Zoellick when he leaves in June, said two people familiar
with Obama administration discussions.  The U.S. promised a candidate “in the coming weeks” for
the post that has always been held by one of its citizens, while
officials from Brazil and  Mexico  vowed to make the selection
process open to emerging markets.  “It is very important that we continue to have strong,
effective leadership in this important institution,” Treasury
Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said in an e-mail yesterday, four
hours after Zoellick, 58, announced he will leave at the end of
his five-year term. The U.S. choice will have “the experience
and requisite qualities to take this institution forward,”
Geithner said.  While Summers has expressed interest in the position and
has supporters inside the administration, the position would be
Clinton’s if she sought it, according to the people, who spoke
on condition of anonymity about the private conversations.  Clinton, who said previously she doesn’t plan to remain in
her post if President  Barack Obama  wins a second term,
repeatedly has denied having an interest in the World Bank job.
State Department spokesman  Victoria Nuland  repeated those
denials yesterday.  View Not Changed  “The secretary has addressed this issue many times since
last year,” Nuland said at a briefing in Washington. “She has
said this is not happening. Her view has not changed.”  Summers was traveling and unavailable for comment, his
assistant, Julie Shample, said.  Officials in  China , Brazil and Mexico jumped in to support
the chances of someone from outside the U.S., possibly from an
emerging-market country, to head the  Washington-based lender .  “There’s no reason for the principal leader to come from a
specific country,”  Brazil ’s finance minister, Guido Mantega,
told reporters. “Emerging markets have the right to seek the
leadership of the World Bank.”  Mexican central bank Governor Agustin Carstens, speaking in
Mexico City, echoed that sentiment, saying the World Bank chief
should be selected by merit, not pre-arranged rules.  China’s Foreign Ministry spokesman Liu Weimin, asked if the
candidate should come from a developing nation, said the
selection should be “based on the merit principle and open
competition.’’  Close Ranks  The campaign for the helm of an institution that made $57
billion in loans in the last fiscal year will test the capacity
of emerging markets to close ranks behind a candidate eight
months after they failed to agree on an International Monetary
Fund nominee. The  World Bank  job has always been held by a U.S.
national under an informal agreement that also has a European
head the IMF. The nomination is subject to approval by the World
Bank’s executive board.  “As a marker, the emerging markets will put forward some
candidates,” said Uri Dadush, director of international
economics at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in
Washington. “But it is probably the most likely outcome that
the U.S. candidate will prevail just like the European candidate
prevailed at the fund.”  Christine Lagarde , then  France ’s finance minister, was
picked last year over Mexico’s Carstens for the IMF job with
support from the U.S. as well as nations including Brazil.  Obama’s spokesman,  Jay Carney , refused to comment on
possible successors to Zoellick, who was nominated for the
position by then-President  George W. Bush  in 2007 for a term
that ends June 30.  Salary and Benefits  Zoellick received a net salary of $450,378 in the year
through June 30, 2011, plus $284,329 in pension and other
benefits contributions, according to the bank’s annual report.  “There’s been a lot of speculation in the press,” Carney
told reporters traveling with the president to an event in
Wisconsin. “I’m not going to confirm any of it.”  While Clinton, 64, told State Department employees at a
town hall last month that she is tired after 20 years in public
life, many of her associates say she might be willing to take
the World Bank presidency. It requires fewer hours and less
travel than being secretary of state, the people said.  Summers, 57, was Obama’s first director of the National
Economic Council and served as Treasury secretary in President
 Bill Clinton ’s administration. He left the Obama administration
at the end of 2010 and returned to  Harvard University  in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts , where he is a professor at the John F.
Kennedy School of Government.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hans Nichols in  Washington  at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ; 