-- Sun Life CEO Says Investors Will Get ‘Sharper Focus’ Next Month
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2012-02-16T18:35:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/sun-life-ceo-says-investors-will-get-sharper-focus-next-month.html
Sun Life Financial Inc. (SLF) , Canada’s
third-largest insurer, will give details next month on its goals
for return on equity, Chief Executive Officer Dean Connor said.  “People will leave March 8 with a more detailed sense of
our medium-term financial objectives and how we plan to achieve
those,” Connor, referring to the date of the company’s annual
investor day, said today in a telephone interview. The firm’s
strategy will “come into sharper focus,” he said.  Sun Life tumbled 38 percent in the past year through
yesterday amid costs tied to interest-rate volatility and
investor concern that Sun Life will cut its dividend. The stock
decline was bigger than that of domestic competitors, including
 Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) , Industrial Alliance Insurance and
Financial Services Inc., and Great-West Lifeco Inc.  The fourth-quarter net loss of C$525 million ($527
million), or 90 cents a share, was tied to C$635 million in
costs for variable annuity and segregated fund contracts,
Toronto-based Sun Life said yesterday.  Robert Sedran , an analyst
at  CIBC World Markets , predicted a loss of 69 cents a share.  “The messy quarter is a difficult one from which to glean
much information regarding underlying trends,” Sedran said in a
note to clients today.  Sun Life’s quarterly  dividend , which the company held at 36
cents a share yesterday for the 17th straight quarter, is tied to
core earnings and absolute capital levels, said Connor, 55, who
succeeded Donald Stewart as CEO on Dec. 1.  “It is possible that something could happen in  capital
markets  and interest rates that begin to reduce our capital
position, to a point where we feel we have to take action to
shore up the capital,” he said.  Sun Life will stop selling variable annuities and
individual life insurance products in the U.S., part of a plan
to cut equity-market risk, the company said in December.  The insurer may expand in Asia and  Canada , and bolster the
asset management business, including its Boston-based MFS
Investment Management subsidiary.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scanlan  at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 