-- Swedish Krona Falls to Two-Week Low Versus Dollar After Interest-Rate Cut
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-02-16T16:53:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/swedish-krona-declines-to-lowest-since-feb-1-on-interest-rate-reduction.html
Sweden’s krona fell to a two-week
low against the dollar after the central bank cut its benchmark
 interest rate  and lowered its forecast for the nation’s
borrowing costs.  The currency weakened versus 13 of its 16 major
counterparts after the Riksbank reduced the repo rate by a
quarter of a percentage point to 1.5 percent. The central bank
lowered its prediction for economic growth this year to 0.7
percent from 1.3 percent. Futures on the repo rate indicate the
Riksbank will cut its benchmark to 1.245 percent by September.  “The market is pricing additional easing from the
Riksbank,” which is pressuring the krona, said Kasper Kirkegaard, a senior currency strategist at Danske Bank A/S in
Copenhagen. “We think that the slowdown in the Swedish economy
will force the Riksbank in to additional rate cuts.”  The krona fell 0.4 percent to 6.7494 per dollar as of
4:52 p.m.  London  time, after dropping to 6.7918, the lowest
level since Feb. 1. The currency slipped 0.4 percent to 8.8243
per euro.  The Stockholm-based central bank said it expects its main
repo rate to be at 1.5 percent in the first quarter of next
year, compared with an earlier forecast of 1.8 percent.  “Sluggish growth in the euro area has subdued the demand
for Swedish exports, which slowed down significantly in late
2011,” it said in a statement.  Surplus Narrows  Europe ’s debt crisis is imperiling recovery prospects even
in the region’s strongest economies. Sweden’s trade surplus
shrank to its narrowest in more than a year at the end of 2011
as exports fell for a third month in December. The 17-nation
euro region shrank last quarter for the first time since 2009,
as debt woes blunted demand.  The interest-rate cut was predicted by 13 of the 18
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Five anticipated no change.  UBS AG said it remained “cautious” on the krona, in a
note sent to clients after the central bank meeting.  “While domestic data has stabilized, it is very volatile
and in previous times would not be consistent with krona
strength,”  Chris Walker , a strategist at UBS in London, wrote
today in the note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  