-- Sweden Abandons Rate Rises as Euro Crisis Hits Nordics: Economy
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-02-16T11:32:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/sweden-s-central-bank-cuts-main-rate-to-ward-off-recession.html
Sweden ’s central bank abandoned
interest rate increases for the rest of the year as Europe’s
debt crisis extends its reach further north and policy makers
warn weak exports are destroying jobs.  “Sluggish growth in the euro area has subdued demand for
Swedish exports,” the Riksbank in Stockholm said today. “The
weaker economic outlook has led households to begin saving more
and postpone their consumption, while companies are postponing
their investment. Unemployment will therefore increase somewhat
during the year.”  The bank cut its  benchmark repo rate  by a quarter of a
percentage point to 1.5 percent, and predicted the rate will
remain at that level through the first quarter of next year.
Before today, the bank had signaled the rate would average 1.8
percent at the beginning of next year.  The failure of  Europe ’s leaders to end the debt turmoil,
now in its third year, is imperiling recovery prospects even in
the region’s strongest economies. Swedish Finance Minister
Anders Borg has lashed out at bailout-reliant Greece, the
region’s most indebted nation, for prolonging the crisis by
failing to meet the terms of its first rescue.  “The central bank is making clear that Swedish growth
prospects have been weakened by the development abroad,” Rasmus Gudum, an economist at Svenska Handelsbanken AB in Copenhagen,
said in a note. “It’s especially the euro area, which the bank
notes has already hit Swedish exports significantly.”  Dangerous Fallout  Sweden’s  trade surplus  shrank to its narrowest in more than
a year in December as exports fell for a third month. The 17-
nation euro region shrank in the fourth quarter for the first
time since 2009 as debt woes blunted demand.  Greece  has yet to persuade other members in the euro-area
to provide new loans to avoid bankruptcy, increasing the risk of
a deepening global economic crisis. The fallout is proving
dangerous to trade-reliant economies like Sweden. Exports make
up half the nation’s $500 billion economy, while about 55
percent of its sales abroad go to the European Union.  The Riksbank cut its 2012 economic growth forecast to 0.7
percent today from 1.3 percent previously. Unemployment will
reach 7.7 percent, versus an earlier estimate for 7.5 percent,
the bank said.  The krona weakened 0.1 percent to 8.7984 per euro and 0.6
percent per dollar to 6.7635 as of 11:19 a.m. in  Stockholm . The
yield on Sweden’s two-year note fell four basis points to 0.975
percent.  Australian Jobs  Elsewhere,  Australia  added the most workers in 14 months in
January and the jobless rate unexpectedly declined, spurring
investors to increase bets that the country’s central bank will
extend an interest-rate pause.  In  Asia , a report today showed  Singapore ’s economy shrank
less than initially estimated last quarter as a surge in
pharmaceutical production supported manufacturing at year-end.
Gross domestic product fell an annualized 2.5 percent from the
previous three months.  In  China , non-financial outbound investment rose 59.9
percent in January from a year earlier to $4.376 billion, the
Ministry of Commerce said in Beijing today.  In the U.S., a report today may show that wholesale prices
rebounded in January after an unexpected decline in December,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists. Prices may have increased 0.4 percent from December
after slipping 0.1 percent in November.  Global Outlook  American data on jobless claims and housing starts are also
due today, along with the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index and
the business outlook report from the  Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia .  In Sweden, the Riksbank said the global economy “as a
whole is growing at a relatively good rate and the  U.S. economy 
has performed better than expected,” in today’s rate report.
“However, growth prospects have deteriorated in large parts of
the euro area, partly as a result of new consolidation measures
and signs of a tighter credit situation.”  Sweden’s central bank cut rates in December for the first
time in 2 1/2 years, reversing a tightening cycle that had ended
two months earlier. Futures on Sweden’s repo rate before today’s
decision indicated the Riksbank will cut its benchmark again
this year.  Slow price growth is also giving policy makers in Stockholm
more scope to ease rates.  Inflation (SWCPUIFY) , adjusting for mortgage
costs, has been below the central bank’s 2 percent target since
January 2011 and was 0.9 percent in January, the statistics
office said today.  Swedish Companies  Unemployment (SWUERATE)  in Sweden, home to some of Europe’s biggest
companies including wireless network maker  Ericsson AB (ERICB)  and
truckmaker Volvo AB, jumped to 7.1 percent in December from 6.7
percent in November, non-seasonally adjusted figures published
by  Statistics Sweden  showed on Jan. 26.  Swedish companies have signaled they’ll adjust to the
weaker outlook by capping price increases and trimming their
workforces. A Feb. 8 Riksbank survey of 24 of Sweden’s biggest
firms representing about 200,000 employees showed that
“companies believe they will need to make further job cuts in
the period ahead” as the “economic outlook is expected to
deteriorate further in the next six months.”  The central bank in neighboring  Norway  has also had to
reverse last year’s tightening cycle and in December lowered its
main rate by half a percentage point, its first such cut since
May 2009. Policy makers in Oslo have signaled they’re willing to
reduce rates further to prevent krone gains that hurt exporters.  The currencies of Norway and Sweden have strengthened this
year as official rates remain above those in the euro area and
the U.S. Even after easing policy, the Norwegian and Swedish
central banks’ main rates are higher than the 1 percent in the
euro region and a target of zero to 0.25 percent in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  