-- Swiss Stocks Rise as Nestle Climbs on Better-Than-Forecast Sales
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r   a n d   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-02-16T17:13:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/swiss-stocks-slide-on-greek-bailout-delay-abb-zurich-lead-drop.html
Swiss stocks  advanced for a second
day as U.S. jobless-benefit claims unexpectedly declined to a
four-year low and  Nestle SA (NESN)  rallied on sales growth that
exceeded analysts’ estimates.  Nestle, the world’s biggest food company, climbed to its
highest price since 2010. The stock makes up 24 percent of the
benchmark  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  by weighting.  ABB (ABBN)  Ltd., the world’s
largest maker of power-distribution equipment, retreated 3.6
percent after fourth-quarter profit missed analysts’ estimates.  The SMI, a measure of  Switzerland ’s biggest and most
actively traded companies, added 0.3 percent to 6,217.28 at the
close in Zurich, having earlier dropped as much as 0.8 percent.
The gauge has rallied  4.7 percent this year  as the  European
Central Bank  moved to ease liquidity and U.S. economic reports
topped forecasts. The broader Swiss Performance Index rose 0.2
percent today.  “Opportunities in European equities remain attractive,
both in more cyclical, as well as less economically sensitive
areas,” Luke Stellini, a product director at Invesco Perpetual
in Henley-On-Thames,  England , said in an e-mail today. His
company oversees about $640 billion.  Swiss stocks rebounded today after a U.S. Labor Department
report showed that  initial claims  for jobless benefits
unexpectedly dropped last week to 348,000. The median estimate
in a Bloomberg survey of economists called for a reading of
365,000. Another release said manufacturing in the Philadelphia
region expanded in February at the fastest pace in four months
as new orders and sales picked up.  Greek Bailout  The euro area’s creditor countries struggled to reach an
agreement over a rescue of  Greece , seeking more control over how
future aid is spent as the country faces possible default over a
bond payment due on March 20.  The finance ministers of the 17 countries using the single
currency will decide whether to proceed with the bailout when
they meet on Feb. 20, Luxembourg’s Prime Minister,  Jean-Claude Juncker , said after chairing a conference call of finance
ministers late yesterday.  Nestle added 2.1 percent to 55.60 Swiss francs, its highest
price since December 2010 and its biggest gain since September
last year. The company reported 2011 sales growth that beat
analysts’ estimates and forecast higher 2012 earnings.  “Undoubtedly the biggest, and once again making a strong
claim to be the best,”  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  analysts wrote in
a report today. “Nestle’s organic growth continues to prove the
industry’s leading benchmark.”  ABB Shares Drop  ABB sank 3.6 percent to 19.20 francs, the biggest decline
since November. Net income rose 19 percent to $830 million,
falling short of the $935.9 million average estimate of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Vontobel Holding AG (VONN) , the Swiss bank and brokerage that
specializes in derivatives, slumped 5.3 percent to 25.75 francs,
its largest slide since March 2009, after reporting a 23 percent
drop in full-year profit.  Adecco SA (ADEN) , the world’s largest supplier of temporary
workers, fell 0.9 percent to 46.56 francs as rival Randstad
Holding NV reported an unexpected fourth-quarter loss.  Clariant AG (CLN)  dropped 1.8 percent to 12.83 francs after
Martin Flueckiger, an analyst at Helvea SA, cut the company’s
shares to “accumulate” from “buy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  