-- Syria Extends Assault on Homs as UN General Assembly Set to Vote on Assad
-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 2012-02-16T14:38:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/syria-extends-assault-on-homs-as-un-general-assembly-set-to-vote-on-assad.html
Syrian security forces extended a
two-week artillery attack on the city of Homs the same day that
the  United Nations General Assembly  votes on a resolution
condemning President Bashar al-Assad’s government.  The army also deployed armored vehicles and raided homes in
Qaboun, a suburb of the capital, Damascus, and carried out
attacks in the southern province of Daraa, the U.K.-based  Syrian
Observatory for Human Rights  said. At least 10 defectors and
four civilians were killed today in Hama from shelling, the
observatory said. The  Local Coordination Committees , a group
that opposes Assad, said at least 32 were killed yesterday.  The non-binding resolution in the 193-member General
Assembly follows Russian and Chinese vetoes on Feb. 4 of a
motion in the  Security Council , the UN’s decision-making body.
 Syria ’s army has intensified attacks since that resolution was
vetoed, according to activists, increasing the risk that a
conflict that has already left thousands dead will slide further
into civil war as soldiers defect and sectarian splits widen.  Assad has blamed the revolt, which is the strongest
challenge to his rule since he took office after his father died
in 2000, on “terrorists” and foreign enemies. The government
yesterday announced a Feb. 26 referendum on a new constitution.
A draft published on the Syrian Arab  News Agency ’s website
promises “political pluralism” and democratic elections and
would limit presidents to two seven-year terms.  Contested Control  “The most obvious problem with Assad’s intention to hold a
nationwide poll on February 26 is simply the logistics of
organizing a credible referendum when government control of
large parts of the country is contested,” said  David Hartwell ,
Middle East political analyst for London-based IHS Jane’s, a
unit of IHS Inc.  Mazen Darwish, a human rights activist, was arrested today
at his Damascus office along with his wife, Syrian opposition
leader Louay Hussein said in a phone interview. Darwish was also
detained at the start of the revolt last year and later released
as Assad tried to ease tensions by setting political prisoners
free, appointing a new government and lifting a 48 year-old
emergency law put in place when the ruling Baath Party came to
power in a coup.  The  Arab League  has called for the formation of an Arab-UN
peacekeeping force, a proposal rejected by Syria. Russia would
support a UN role in Syrian peacekeeping if outside intervention
isn’t allowed and the opposition agrees to a cease-fire, Foreign
Minister  Sergei Lavrov  said yesterday.  China ’s vice foreign minister, Zhai Jun, will travel to
Syria on Feb. 17-18 for talks, Foreign Ministry spokesman Liu Weimin said in Beijing today. China will “play a constructive
role in the mediation” of the conflict, Liu said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  