-- Syria Slammed by UN Chief Ban Over ‘Torture Centers’ Before Censure Vote
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e   a n d   M a s s o u d   D e r h a l l y
-- 2012-02-16T16:36:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/syria-slammed-by-un-chief-ban-over-torture-centers-before-censure-vote.html
United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon accused  Syria ’s government of crimes against humanity,
including using hospitals for torture, as its forces shelled
dissidents before a UN vote to denounce President Bashar al- Assad.  “We see neighborhoods shelled indiscriminately, hospitals
used as torture centers, children as young as 10 years old
jailed and abused,” Ban said today at a news conference in
Vienna. “We see almost certain crimes against humanity.”  Syrian security forces extended a two-week artillery attack
on the city of Homs, raided homes outside the capital, Damascus,
and carried out attacks in the southern province of Daraa, the
U.K.-based  Syrian Observatory for Human Rights  said. At least 10
defectors and four civilians were killed today in Hama, north of
Homs, from shelling, the observatory said.  The UN’s 193 members will vote today in  New York  on a non-
binding resolution denouncing Assad. About 5,400 Syrians have
died since opposition forces began protesting the president’s
rule in March, the UN says. A binding Security Council
resolution prodding the president to resign was vetoed by  China 
and Russia Feb. 4. Attacks on the dissidents intensified after
the veto.  Assad has blamed the revolt, which is the strongest
challenge to his rule since he took office after his father died
in 2000, on “terrorists” and foreign enemies. The government
announced a Feb. 26 referendum on a new constitution yesterday.
A draft published on the Syrian Arab  News Agency ’s website
promises “political pluralism” and democratic elections and
would limit presidents to two seven-year terms.  ‘Must Stop’  “It’s their decision to have a referendum, but what is
important at this time is that the Syrian authorities must stop
killing their own people,” Ban said after attending a
conference in the Austrian capital. “This violence should stop
from all sides, whether by national security forces or by
opposition forces.”  The UN is seeking ways to open up besieged towns for
humanitarian-aid deliveries, Ban said.  Mazen Darwish, a human-rights activist, was arrested today
at his Damascus office along with his wife, a Syrian opposition
leader, Louay Hussein, said in a phone interview. Darwish was
also detained at the start of the revolt last year and later
released as Assad tried to ease tensions by freeing political
prisoners, appointing a new government and lifting a 48-year-old
emergency law put in place when the ruling Baath Party came to
power in a coup.  ‘Credible Information’  “Most of the wounded avoid going to public hospitals for
fear of being arrested or tortured,” UN High Commissioner for
Human Rights Navi Pillay said Feb. 13 in New York. “Credible
information shows patterns of systematic and widespread use of
torture in interrogation and detention facilities by security
forces.”  The  Arab League  has called for the formation of an Arab-UN
peacekeeping force, a proposal rejected by Syria. Russia would
support a UN role in Syrian peacekeeping if outside intervention
isn’t allowed and the opposition agrees to a cease-fire, Russian
Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  said yesterday.  China’s vice foreign minister, Zhai Jun, will travel to
Syria Feb. 17-18 for talks, Foreign Ministry spokesman Liu Weimin said in Beijing today. China will “play a constructive
role in the mediation” of the conflict, Liu said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net ;
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  