-- U.K. Nationwide Consumer Confidence Climbs to Five-Month High
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-02-16T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/u-k-consumer-confidence-increases-to-five-month-high-on-economic-outlook.html
U.K.  consumer confidence  rose in
January to the highest in five months on signs of strength in
the economy, according to  Nationwide Building Society , which
said the increase may be a “temporary bounce.”  An index of sentiment rose to 47 from 38 the previous
month, the Swindon, England-based customer-owned lender said in
an e-mailed report today. The reading was down 2 points from a
year earlier. A gauge of consumers’ outlook for the economy
jumped by 14 points.  Pressure on consumers eased last month as  inflation  dropped
to a 14-month low of 3.9 percent. While  Bank of England  Governor
Mervyn King said yesterday growth will gradually strengthen this
year as household incomes improve, the recovery may be “slow
and uncertain” amid turmoil in  Europe  and the government’s
fiscal squeeze.  “Renewed hope that the U.K. will avoid a double-dip
recession may support sentiment, especially since the downward
trend in inflation is set to continue,”  Robert Gardner , chief
economist at Nationwide, said in the report. “With the U.K.
recovery likely to remain weak in the first half of the year, a
significant and sustained rise in  consumer confidence  remains
unlikely in the near term.”  A gauge of Britons’ assessment of their present situation
rose 2 points to 21, while a measure of their expectations for
the economy increased to 64 from 50. An index of shoppers’ views
on whether it’s a good time to make a major purchase, such as a
house or car, increased 1 point to 78.  Consumer Squeeze  Inflation slowed last month as a sales-tax increase in
January 2011 dropped out of calculations. King said at a press
conference yesterday in  London  that households “are already
beginning to see some benefit.”  Still, the outlook faces risks from Europe’s sovereign debt
crisis that has already strained credit conditions and may
jeopardize U.K. exports, King said. He spoke a day after
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  pledged to stick to
plans for the biggest spending squeeze since World War II to
tame the public deficit.  “The path of recovery is likely to be slow and
uncertain,” King said. “The biggest risk to the recovery stems
from developments in the euro area, where there remain concerns
about the indebtedness and competitiveness of some member
countries.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  