-- U.K. Stocks Retreat for a Third Day as BAE Systems Slides
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-02-16T16:49:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/u-k-stocks-drop-for-a-third-day-bae-systems-african-barrick-gold-slide.html
U.K. stocks  fell, sending the
benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  lower for a third day, as the euro
area’s finance ministers delayed a bailout for  Greece .  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  slid 2.3 percent, pacing retreating shares
on the  FTSE 100 , as Europe’s largest defense company said its
domestic market will fail to grow this year. African Barrick
Gold Plc slumped 14 percent after posting full-year net income
that missed analysts’ estimates.  The  FTSE 100  declined 6.78, or 0.1 percent, to 5,885.38 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in London, after earlier sliding as much as
1.1 percent. The FTSE All-Share Index dropped 0.2 percent, while
Ireland’s ISEQ Index was unchanged.  “There will be no winners or losers in this particular
little saga as  Europe  gives the impression of gearing up to cut
Greece loose, unless they subjugate to demands for new measures
to sate various new concerns,” said  Michael Hewson , a markets
analyst at CMC Markets in London.  Stocks pared their decline after better-than-estimated
housing starts, Philadelphia-area manufacturing and jobless
claims data in the U.S., the world’s largest economy.  The euro area’s creditor countries struggled to reach an
agreement over a rescue of Greece, seeking more control over how
future aid is spent as the country faces the threat of default
over a bond payment due on March 20. The 17-nation currency
area’s finance ministers will discuss the second bailout at a
meeting on Feb. 20, said Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said who chairs meetings of the Eurogroup.  U.S. Bond Buying  U.S. Federal Reserve officials will keep open the option of
a third round of bond purchases in case the world’s largest
economy weakens or inflation stays low.  “A few” members of the  Federal Open Market Committee  said
economic conditions could warrant buying assets “before long”
and others indicated that action would become necessary if the
“economy lost momentum” or price gains seemed likely to remain
lower than the Fed’s 2 percent goal, according to minutes of
their Jan. 24-25 meeting released yesterday in  Washington .  The FTSE 100 has still  rallied 5.6 percent  this year as the
 European Central Bank  increased lending to banks and U.S.
economic reports exceeded estimates.  BAE Systems lost 2.3 percent to 325.2 pence. The defense
company earlier fell as much as 6 percent after predicting that
its domestic market will fail to grow this year. BAE also said
that U.S. defense budget cuts will create “uncertainty.”  African Barrick Gold sank 14 percent to 448 pence as the
miner of the precious metal in Tanzania said  fourth-quarter
profit  slumped 33 percent on lower output and higher costs. The
company also forecast that it will produce the least metal this
year since the company listed in  London  in 2010.  Talvivaara Mining Co. tumbled 14 percent to 281.9 pence
after raising 68.8 million pounds ($108.5 million) by selling
about 24.6 million shares at 280 pence per share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  