-- Former Merrill Banker Says $550,000 Fine for Einhorn Inside Tip Isn’t Fair
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-02-16T13:14:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/u-k-fsa-fines-ex-merrill-banker-550-000-for-einhorn-tips.html
A former corporate broker at  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) ’s Merrill Lynch was fined 350,000 pounds
($550,000) for disclosing inside information to Greenlight
Capital Inc. Chairman  David Einhorn  about a planned equity sale
by  Punch Taverns Plc. (PUB)   Andrew Osborne, 42, told Einhorn, whose firm owned 13.3
percent of Punch’s shares, the company was about to issue new
equity, the Financial Services Authority said in a statement
today. Einhorn had declined to discuss Punch’s plans with
Osborne, who represented the taverns, on a confidential basis
the day before a 2009 conference call on the issuance.  “Osborne engaged in serious market abuse,” said Tracey
McDermott, the FSA’s acting head of financial crime. “He was
trusted as the gatekeeper of inside information and should have
been extremely cautious in proceeding with the call with
Greenlight.”  Einhorn ordered his traders to sell shares in Punch Taverns
“within minutes” of getting the information from Osborne, the
FSA said last month. Greenlight and Einhorn, who said the market
abuse was “inadvertent,” were fined 7.2 million pounds by the
regulator on Jan. 25. Two days later, the FSA fined the hedge
fund’s former compliance officer and a trader at JPMorgan Chase
& Co.’s Cazenove unit for not reporting a “suspicious order.”  The FSA’s decision doesn’t represent “a fair outcome,”
Osborne said today.  ‘Nothing Deliberate’  “None of the many advisers or others involved in this
transaction believed that any inside information had been passed
by me at the time or raised any issues regarding the sale of
shares by Greenlight,” Osborne said in an e-mailed statement.
“The FSA accepts that I did nothing deliberate, dishonest or
reckless and at worst this was an error of judgment.”  Greenlight sold 11.65 million shares, reducing its holding
from 13.3 percent to 8.9 percent over the four days after the
call with Osborne, according to the FSA. The firm, which bought
Punch shares between June 2008 and January 2009, had never sold
or tried to sell them before that day. Greenlight avoided a loss
of 5.8 million pounds when Punch fell 29.9 percent after it
announced plans to raise 375 million pounds in June 2009, the
FSA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  