-- U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending Feb. 14 (Text)
-- B y   M i k e   S e b a n y
-- 2012-02-16T13:34:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-feb-14-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln, Nebraska:  Northeast: Like last week, only a few tenths of an inch of
precipitation, if any, fell on the region. As a result, D0 was
expanded to include part of western  New York , where some longer-
term deficits were noted. Farther south, D0 was introduced in
part of southeastern  Massachusetts . Most of this region only
received one-half to two-thirds of normal precipitation over the
past 60 days.  South Atlantic and Central Gulf Coast Regions: During the last
two weeks, 2 to locally over 5 inches of rain fell on small
sections of north-central and southeastern parts of the Florida
Peninsula, prompting improvements to D0 in southeastern sections
and D1 farther north. Still, a number of locations in south
Florida recorded less than half of normal rainfall since
November 1, 2011, including the cities of Palm Beach and Fort
Lauderdale. In addition, 1 or 2 inches fell on much of the
Louisiana Bayou, although no improvement was introduced here,
where substantial long-term deficits remain.  Several tenths of an inch fell on other parts of the  Florida 
Peninsula and in southern sections of  Alabama  and  Mississippi ,
where keeping dryness and drought essentially unchanged.
Unfortunately, very little if any precipitation fell from the
northern tier of Florida (including the Panhandle) northward
through the eastern mid-Atlantic region. As a result, D4 was
expanded southwestward into more of southeastern Alabama and
southwestern  Georgia , in addition to eastern parts of the
Florida Peninsula. Much of this region received less than half
of normal rainfall during the last 60 days, and 6-month deficits
topped 12 inches in many areas. For the 1-year period through
early February, Tallahassee, FL measured about 32 inches of
rain, about 5 inches below the previous record for the period.
In addition, Dothan, AL reported 33 inches, only about 2 inches
lower than the previous record. Farther north, there was some
expansion of D0 and D1 conditions in central sections of North
Carolina.  The Southern Great Plains and Most of  Louisiana : Moderate to
heavy rains exceeding 1 inch fell on much of southeastern  Texas 
as well as isolated locations in southernmost and central parts
of the state. Despite the fact these rains brought 30-day totals
to over 5 inches (and over 10 in isolated spots) in some east-
central and southeastern areas, only modest regional improvement
seemed warranted, since 6-month totals remained more than 8
inches below normal across most of the D2 to D4 areas. As a
result, Lake Somerville remained at only 59% of capacity, the
lowest since records began in 1990.  In contrast, one area in and around  San Antonio  was improved to
D1 after moderate rainfall. The Bexar Index Well has risen 9
feet in the past month, and is over 20 feet above the low
recorded last summer. In addition, the Edwards Aquifer rose to
its highest level since late April 2011.  A number of locations in the rest of the southern Plains kept
last week’s drought assessments intact.  The Northern Plains:  Only a few tenths of an inch of
precipitation last week meant drought conditions either
persisted or intensified. D0 expanded westward through portions
of southern and central  South Dakota  while D2 conditions were
extended slightly into eastern parts of the state. Many of the
D2 areas recorded less than half of normal precipitation during
the last 60 days. Since August 1, Sioux Falls, SD received only
3.6 inches of precipitation, the third lowest for the period in
roughly 100 years of records.  West: Moderate precipitation (over 1 inch) fell on parts of
northwestern New Mexico, central and western  Colorado , and
adjacent  Wyoming . Elsewhere, however, only a few areas outside
 California  measured over 0.5 inch. The week’s precipitation, in
addition to a re-assessment of overall conditions, prompted the
elimination of D3 conditions in northeast  Arizona , and
reductions in the D0 to D2 areas here and in Northwestern  New
Mexico . Drought conditions remained unchanged in the rest of the
West despite widespread precipitation amounts between 1 and 3
inches  in the Sierra Nevada, where normal are quite large.  Hawaii : Between 1 and 3 inches of precipitation fell on some
sections across the eastern Big Island, northeastern Maui,
southern Lanai, and southeastern Kauai, with light to moderate
totals observed elsewhere. Pasture and vegetation conditions
have improved recently in portions of the southeastern Big
Island.  Looking Ahead: During the next 5 days (February 16-20, 2012),
moderate to heavy precipitation (1 to locally over 3 inches) is
anticipated across a large area from southeastern Texas eastward
through the Florida Panhandle and northeastward into southern
 North Carolina . Amounts over 0.5 inch are forecast for
immediately adjacent sections including central Texas, the
northern Florida Peninsula, and southern  Virginia , but lesser
amounts should fall on the other areas of dryness and drought
across the contiguous 48 states.  For the ensuing 5 days, the Climate Prediction Center (CPC) 6-10
day indicated that the odds favor above normal precipitation in
much the same area as during the next 5 days. Farther west,
subnormal amounts are favored from southern Oregon and
northeastern California southeastward through western Texas and
southward to the Mexican border.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Sebany in Washington at 
 msebany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  