-- U.S. February Philadelphia Business Outlook Report (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-02-16T15:09:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/u-s-february-philadelphia-business-outlook-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the Philadelphia area
manufacturing activity from the  Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia .  Responses from manufacturing firms polled for this month’s Business Outlook
Survey suggest that regional manufacturing activity continued to expand in February.
The survey’s broad indicators for general activity, new orders, and shipments all
increased from their readings in January. Firms reported near-steady employment
levels but an increase in average work hours. More firms reported higher input
prices this month, and a sizable share of firms reported price increases for their
own manufactured goods. The survey’s broad indicators of future activity fell from
levels in recent months but continue to reflect optimism about future manufacturing
growth.  Indicators Suggest Continued Expansion  The survey’s broadest measure of manufacturing conditions, the diffusion index
of current activity, edged higher from a reading of 7.3 in January to 10.2, its
highest level since October (see Chart). The demand for manufactured goods also
showed improvement this month: The new orders index was positive for the fifth
consecutive month and increased from 6.9 to 11.7. The shipments index also remained
positive and increased 9 points. The indexes for both delivery times and unfilled
orders recorded slightly positive readings this month, compared with their negative
readings in January.  Firms’ responses suggest near-steady levels of employment this month. The
current employment index, which has been positive for six consecutive months, fell
from a reading of 11.6 in January to 1.1 this month, suggesting little overall
growth in employment. The percentage of firms reporting an increase in employment
(14 percent) was only slighter greater than the percentage reporting decreases (13
percent). Firms reporting a longer workweek (20 percent) outnumbered those reporting
a shorter one (10 percent), and the current workweek index increased 5 points.  Input and Output Prices Edge Higher  Indexes for prices paid and prices received both increased this month. Forty-
two percent of the firms reported higher prices for inputs this month, up from 35
percent last month. The prices paid index increased 7 points and has now edged
higher for four consecutive months. On balance, firms also reported a rise in prices
for manufactured goods: More firms reported increases in prices (22 percent) than
reported decreases (7 percent). The prices received index increased 4 points, its
fourth consecutive increase.  Firms’ Outlook Still Optimistic  The future general activity index fell from a reading of 49.0 in January to
33.3 this month. The index, which has increased for five consecutive months, remains
at a relatively high level (see Chart). The indexes for future new orders and
shipments paralleled the decline in the future activity index, decreasing 17 points
and 19 points, respectively.  The future employment index showed improvement,
however, increasing 3 points. Firms expecting to increase employment over the next
six months (33 percent) outnumbered those expecting to decrease it (11 percent).  In this month’s special questions, firms were asked about their 2012  capital
spending  plans (see Special Questions). Nearly 36 percent of the firms indicated
that total capital spending would be higher this year than in 2011; 23 percent
indicated that spending would be lower. Firms that plan to increase capital spending
noted that they expect to spend more on noncomputer equipment, software, and
 computer hardware , and they most frequently cited expected high sales growth, the
need for replacement capital, and an improved cash flow or balance-sheet position as
the reasons for the increased spending.  Summary  According to respondents to the February Business Outlook Survey, the region’s
manufacturing sector continued to grow this month. All of the broad indicators
remained positive, with firms reporting a pickup in new orders and shipments. Price
pressures were more widespread this month, and more firms also reported higher
prices for their own goods. Firms’; outlook and employment plans for the next six
months remain generally optimistic. 