-- U.S. House Panel Approves Measure Limiting Swaps ‘Push-Out’
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-02-17T00:13:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/u-s-house-panel-clears-bill-allowing-banks-insured-units-to-keep-swaps.html
The U.S. House Financial Services
Committee approved legislation that would let banks keep
commodity and equity derivatives in federally-insured units by
removing part of the Dodd-Frank Act’s so-called push-out rule.  The bipartisan measure, approved today by voice vote, calls
for altering the 2010 law’s requirement that banks with access
to  deposit insurance  and the Federal Reserve’s discount window
move some derivatives trades to separate affiliates.  Blanche Lincoln , an Arkansas Democrat who led the Senate
Agriculture Committee during talks leading to the regulatory
overhaul, sponsored the original provision as a way to limit
taxpayer support for risky derivatives trades. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and Sheila Bair, the former Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. chairman, opposed the provision and argued that
it would drive derivatives trading to less-regulated entities.  “I never myself thought it made a great deal of sense,”
Representative  Barney Frank  said today of the original measure.
“Passing this bill particularly as amended will not in any way,
shape or form reduce sensible regulation of derivatives,” said
Frank, the Massachusetts Democrat who co-wrote the law that
bears his name.  The measure was included in the final Dodd-Frank bill to
help secure Senate passage, he said.  The bill approved today was sponsored by Representatives
Jim Himes of  Connecticut  and Carolyn Maloney of  New York , both
Democrats, and Nan Hayworth, a New York Republican.  Subprime Mortgages  Dodd-Frank requires that equity, some commodity and non-
cleared  credit derivatives  be pushed out into affiliates. The
revision would allow non-structured finance swap activities and
structured finance trades tied to assets with high  credit
quality  to remain in bank divisions with insured deposits.
Structured swaps tied to asset-backed securities comprised of
subprime mortgages would still be pushed out, Himes said.  The legislation would need approval by the full House and
Senate before heading to President Barack Obama for signature.  “We are also concerned that clients will migrate their
swap contracts to other entities which are not subject to
prudential regulation by federal regulators,” Kenneth E. Bentsen Jr., executive vice president for public policy at the
 Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association , said in a
letter supporting the legislation. “As a result, systemic risk
may be increased instead of reduced.”  Sifma represents  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,  Bank of America
Corp.  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  among other banks that have swaps in
their insured depository arms.  Americans for Financial Reform , a coalition including the
AFL-CIO labor federation as well as other unions and consumer
advocacy groups, opposed changes to the push-out rule in a
letter before the vote.  Consumer Bureau  The panel also approved by voice vote a measure aimed at
protecting attorney-client privilege on information banks
provide to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. The
proposal, which has the support of  Richard Cordray , the bureau’s
director, would apply the same information protection guidelines
as are followed by the other banking regulators.  Senate Banking Committee Chairman Tim Johnson, a South
Dakota Democrat, and Senator  Richard Shelby  of  Alabama , the top
Republican on the panel, have introduced a similar proposal.  Two Bills  The committee also approved a bill 54-1 that would ease
disclosure requirements for smaller companies seeking public
offerings, saying “emerging growth” companies that make less
than $1 billion in annual revenue should get a five-year “on
ramp” that lessens their burdens for going public. The bill,
which passed with bipartisan support, is similar to Senate
legislation awaiting its own committee vote.  The panel approved a measure from Representative  Scott Garrett , a New Jersey Republican, to require the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission produce a full cost-benefit
justification for any rule before the regulator issues it. The
agency last year suffered a court rejection of its rule that
would have eased shareholders’ ability to put board candidates
on corporate ballots because of inadequate cost-benefit
analysis.  The panel approved the measure along party lines, 30-26.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  