-- Novozymes Targets Top of Sales Range on Enzymes’s Growth
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-02-16T17:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/u-s-losing-momentum-in-biofuels-makes-novozymes-target-brazil.html
Novozymes A/S (NZYMB) , the world’s biggest
maker of enzymes for biofuels, is focusing its expansion efforts
in  Europe ,  China  and Brazil and isn’t pursuing new projects in
the U.S. because of the lack of political support.  “The policy signals sent to the market are not
consistent” in the U.S., said Steen Riisgaard, chief executive
officer the Copenhagen-based company, in an interview at
Bloomberg’s headquarters in  New York . “The U.S. is losing
momentum now compared to the rest of the world. The momentum is
no longer here. It’s in China and Brazil.”  The comments add to concern expressed by  Vestas Wind
Systems A/S (VWS) , the world’s biggest wind turbine maker, that
President Barack Obama’s administration isn’t doing enough to
support renewable energy technologies. Vestas says it may fire
1,600 workers this year in the U.S. if a tax credit for wind
energy developers isn’t extended.  A U.S. tax credit that provided refiners with 45 cents for
every gallon of ethanol blended into gasoline expired Dec. 31. A
2007 law requires the U.S. to consume 15 billion gallons (57
billion liters) of ethanol by 2015 and 36 billion gallons of
renewable fuels by 2022.  The U.S. consumed 12.6 billion gallons of ethanol last
year, compared with 5 billion gallons in  Brazil , 2.7 billion in
the European Union and 590 million gallons in China, according
to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Riisgaard said the expired U.S. tax credit “helped the oil
industry more than the blenders.”  Novozymes is opening a $200 million  plant  in Nebraska this
year and has no other plans to expand in the U.S. until the
nation’s energy policy becomes more certain, Riisgaard said.
It’s supplying enzymes to Italy’s first commercial second-
generation ethanol plant and is seeking additional opportunities
in Asia and  South America .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  