-- U.S. Calls for Ban on In-Car Facebook, Twitter While Driving
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-02-16T17:03:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/u-s-calls-for-ban-on-in-car-social-networking-while-driving.html
The U.S. Transportation Department
asked automakers to design devices allowing drivers access to
social networks such as Facebook and Twitter so they can’t be
used while a car is moving.  Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood, in the non-binding
guidelines issued today, also called for disabling manual
texting, Internet browsing, 10-digit phone dialing and the
ability to enter addresses into a built-in navigation system for
drivers unless the car is in park.  The department said it’s considering future guidelines to
address handheld electronics brought into cars and minimizing
distractions from voice-activated systems. Today’s guidelines
culminate LaHood’s campaign to bring attention to distracted
driving caused by use of mobile phones and other electronic
devices behind the wheel.  “DOT is on the right path,” Barbara Harsha, executive
director of the Governors Highway Safety Association, said in an
e-mail. “We particularly like the guideline for disabling
devices that text and surf the Internet, etc.”  The guidelines don’t apply to electronic warning systems
such as lane-departure or collision alerts. The department will
seek comments before making them final. Regulators still expect
full compliance,  David Strickland , administrator of the
department’s  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration ,
told reporters on a conference call with reporters.  “Distracted driving is unsafe, irresponsible and can have
devastating consequences,” LaHood said on the call. “Every
single time a driver takes his or her focus off the road, the
driver puts his or her life and the lives of others at risk.”  More Electronics Offered  In 2010, 3,092 people, or 9.4 percent of road fatalities,
were killed in crashes related to driver distraction, according
to NHTSA.  This year, there will be a 29 percent increase in the
number of new cars and light trucks sold in  North America  that
will be fitted with smartphone and embedded-connectivity units,
according to QUBE, part of automotive data provider just-
auto.com. The firm expects 5.8 million in-vehicle units this
year. By 2026, all vehicles sold in North America and  Japan  will
have the technology, the Bromsgrove, England-based company
forecasts.  U.S. light-vehicle sales this year may rise at least 6
percent to 13.6 million this year, the average estimate of 18
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg in January.  Industry Guidelines  The  Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers , whose members
include Toyota Motor Corp. and  General Motors Co. (GM) , completed its
own guidelines on electronics in 2002 and has updated them
twice,  Gloria Bergquist , a spokeswoman for the Washington-based
group, said.  The U.S. government guidelines differ from the industry’s
in calling for in-car applications to be disabled while a
vehicle is moving, she said.  Automakers haven’t calculated what costs might be involved,
she said. Regulators didn’t look at costs because it’s a
voluntary guideline rather than a rule, Strickland said.  The guidelines recommend limiting to two seconds the time
it takes a driver to complete a task that requires eyes to be
off the road, and for simplifying the complexity of built-in
communication systems.  Consumers will still be able to have built-in systems,
Strickland said. Regulators aren’t trying to ban them, just
reduce their use while driving, he said.  “We recognize that vehicle manufacturers want to build
vehicles that include the tools and conveniences expected by
today’s drivers,” he said.  Safety Board  In December, the U.S. National Transportation Safety Board
called mobile-phone use in cars a public-health epidemic on the
scale of smoking or drunk driving. It recommended that all U.S.
states ban phone use by drivers, even with handsfree devices.
The safety board can’t make or enforce rules.  The board plans a meeting on distracted driving in March,
Kelly Nantel, a spokeswoman, said.  LaHood, who has said he will step down from his post even
if President  Barack Obama  wins a second term, has said he
supports bans on all use of handheld devices while driving.  The agency decided to publish voluntary guidelines rather
than a compulsory rule in part because change may get done more
quickly, LaHood said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  