-- U.S. Seasonal Drought Outlook for Feb. 16 to May 2012 (Text)
-- B y   M i k e   S e b a n y
-- 2012-02-16T13:37:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/u-s-seasonal-drought-outlook-for-feb-16-to-may-2012-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
 Seasonal Drought Outlook  as released by the  National Weather
Service  in  Camp Springs , Maryland:  Latest Seasonal Assessment - The drought outlook for February 16
-May 31, 2012 is based on short-, medium-, and long-range
forecasts, climate anomalies associated with a weakening La
Nina, initial conditions, and climatology. Since the release of
the previous drought outlook on February 2, 2012, significant
precipitation has fallen across the Pacific Northwest, portions
of the Rockies, the southern Plains, the lower Mississippi
Valley, and the central  Gulf Coast  region. The Climate
Prediction Center (CPC) predicts a tilt in the odds for above-
normal temperatures for most areas east of the Continental
Divide in March, and enhanced odds for below-normal temperatures
across the West Coast states and the southern two-thirds of
 Alaska . This general pattern is also anticipated for the March-
May 2012 season, though with increased odds for above-normal
temperatures across the Southwest. For precipitation, there is a
tilt in the odds for wetter-than-normal conditions across the
Pacific Northwest and the southern Alaska Panhandle in March,
and for a fairly large area encompassing the  Great Lakes , the
Ohio Valley, and eastern portions of the upper and middle
Mississippi Valley. In general, these same regions are expected
to receive above-median precipitation during the March-May 2012
period, though with reduced coverage. Unfortunately, most of the
anticipated precipitation is forecast to fall just east and
southeast of where it is needed most in the upper Midwest. Most
indicators support a westward expansion of dryness across the
Dakotas. The CPC precipitation forecast for March also calls for
elevated odds of below-median precipitation across most of
 California , the Southwest, and the Gulf Coast and southern
Atlantic Coast regions. For the March-May 2012 forecast period,
the same general areas are expected to receive below-median
precipitation, though with the addition of south-central and
southeastern Alaska. However, for  Texas  and the Gulf Coast
region, the upcoming 5-7 days is likely to feature heavy to very
heavy precipitation (2“5”), which should provide at least
temporary, short-term drought relief, but may have little impact
on longer-term hydrologic deficits. In  Hawaii , improvement is
forecast for Oahu, with some improvement considered most likely
for the leeward slopes of Maui, Molokai , Lanai, and the Big
Island.  SOURCE: National Weather Service  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Sebany in Washington at 
 msebany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  