-- House-Senate Negotiators Announce Payroll Deal Completed
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-02-16T19:30:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/u-s-payroll-tax-extended-through-rest-of-year.html
Congressional negotiators said they
agreed on a plan to extend a payroll  tax cut  and expanded
unemployment benefits through the rest of the year.  “We have reached an agreement,” House Ways and Means
Committee Chairman  Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican, told
reporters early today after a meeting in the Capitol. “We’re
confident this can be concluded.”  Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana
Democrat, said today the House plans to vote on the plan early
tomorrow afternoon, followed by the Senate.  The plan would extend the two-percentage-point payroll tax
break for workers through Dec. 31 without covering the $94
billion cost, Representative  Kevin Brady , a Texas Republican,
said two days ago when the initial plan was announced.  It would continue expanded unemployment benefits while
gradually reducing the maximum number of weeks people can
collect payments and avert a 27 percent cut in doctors’ Medicare
reimbursements through the rest of this year. Those would be
paid for with reductions elsewhere in the budget.  Senator  Ben Cardin , a Maryland Democrat on the negotiating
committee, staged a last-minute revolt against the agreement
late yesterday over a provision that would require federal
workers to pay more toward their pensions. Maryland has a high
concentration of government employees.  Cardin told reporters today he spoke with President Barack Obama yesterday about his concerns, though he didn’t describe
the conversation. He said he is “pleased” the deal was changed
to apply the pension provision only to new federal workers.  Van Hollen  Obama called Representative  Chris Van Hollen , another
Maryland Democrat on the conference committee who fought the
pension provision, and told him it would only affect future
government employees, according to a Democratic aide with
knowledge of the conversation.  “It’s important to move forward,”  Van Hollen  and Cardin
said in a joint statement today. “But it is inherently unfair
that the primary offset found for extending unemployment
insurance came from additional sacrifice from other middle-class
families rather than the very wealthiest Americans.”  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
in a statement that the proposal “will keep our economy moving
forward just as it is beginning to gain steam.”  The tax cut and extended benefits are set to expire at the
end of this month without a congressional deal.  ‘Fair Agreement’  House Speaker John Boehner today called the plan a “fair
agreement.”  “I think it’s something I would support,” said Senator
 Scott Brown , a Massachusetts Republican. “There’s no sticking
point.”  Obama this week urged Congress to act soon on the tax cut
and  unemployment insurance . He said lawmakers shouldn’t raise
Americans’ taxes with the recovery still fragile,  The payroll tax cut issue has dogged Republicans since
December, when the party initially rejected an extension and was
blamed for almost allowing the break to expire. Under political
pressure, Boehner agreed to an extension through Feb. 29 to let
negotiators work on a longer-term measure.  Other Republicans have repeatedly said that the entire
payroll package, with a 10-year price tag of as much as $160
billion, must be financed with other spending reductions.  First Responders  Senator  Frank Lautenberg , a New Jersey Democrat, said the
inclusion in the deal of a dedicated spectrum allocation for
emergency first-responders was a victory for New York-area
lawmakers who had been pushing for it since the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks.  “We saw firsthand on 9-11 what happened when units can’t
communicate among themselves,” Lautenberg said in an interview.  Senator Barbara Mikulski, a Maryland Democrat, said she was
leaning against supporting the plan. She said she was “very
unhappy” with methods of financing it, particularly cuts to
hospitals, clinical labs and nursing homes.  “It penalizes those who serve those people who currently
can’t pay their medical bills,” Mikulski said.  Accusing Democrats  Asked yesterday why Republicans dropped their insistence on
financing the payroll tax cut extension with almost $100 billion
in spending cuts, Boehner, of  Ohio , accused Democrats of holding
up an agreement to inflict more political damage on his party.  The proposal would continue 99 weeks of  unemployment
benefits  through May for states hardest hit by joblessness,
according to a document spelling out the plan, provided by a
Democratic aide. As many as 79 weeks of jobless benefits would
be provided through August and as long as 73 weeks through
December, according to the document.  Only states with unemployment rates exceeding 9 percent
would offer up to 73 weeks of jobless benefits, said a
Republican aide, speaking on condition of anonymity. Under the
tentative deal, 36 states would be allowed to offer up to 63
weeks of jobless benefits, the aide said.  The agreement would let states require drug testing for
beneficiaries who lost a job for failing or refusing to take a
drug test, the Republican aide said.  It also would require states distributing federal welfare
payments to bar recipients from using their electronic-benefits
cards to withdraw funds from automated-teller machines in strip
clubs, gambling casinos and liquor stores, the Republican aide
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laurie Asseo at 
 lasseo1@bloomberg.net  