-- U.S. January Producer Price Index Report (Text)
-- B y   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-02-16T13:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/u-s-january-producer-price-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the
U.S. producer price report for Jan. released by the Labor
Department.  The Producer Price Index for finished goods advanced 0.1
percent in January, seasonally adjusted, the  U.S. Bureau of
Labor Statistics  reported today. Prices for finished goods
declined 0.1 percent in December and moved up 0.2 percent in
November. At the earlier stages of processing, the index for
intermediate goods fell 0.4 percent in January, and crude
goods prices increased 1.5 percent. On an unadjusted basis,
the finished goods index advanced 4.1 percent for the 12
months ended January 2012, the smallest year-over-year rise
since a 3.6-percent increase in January 2011. (See table A.)
falling 0.9 percent in December. Over eighty percent of the
January decline can be attributed to the index for fresh and
dry vegetables, which fell 8.8 percent.  Intermediate goods  The Producer Price Index for intermediate materials, supplies,
and components moved down 0.4 percent in January following a
0.2-percent decline in December. Over three-fourths of the
broad-based decrease in January is attributable to prices for
intermediate energy goods, which fell 1.4 percent. Also
contributing to the decline in intermediate goods prices, the
index for intermediate goods less foods and energy inched down
0.1 percent, and prices for intermediate foods and feeds
decreased 0.4 percent. For the 12 months ended in January, the
intermediate goods index rose 4.2 percent, the smallest year-
over-year advance since a 2.9-percent increase in December
2009. (See table B.)  Intermediate energy:  Prices for intermediate energy goods
fell 1.4 percent in January after two consecutive increases.
The index for utility natural gas, which dropped 2.7 percent,
was a major contributor to this decrease. Lower prices for
commercial electric power and residual fuel also were factors
in the decline in the intermediate energy goods index. (See
table 2.)  Intermediate core:  Prices for intermediate goods less foods
and energy edged down 0.1 percent in January, the fourth
consecutive decline. Leading the January decrease was the
index for basic organic chemicals, which fell 4.4 percent.
Lower prices for cold rolled steel sheet and strip also
contributed to the decline in the intermediate core index.  Intermediate foods:  The index for intermediate foods and
feeds fell 0.4 percent in January following a 0.8-percent
decrease in December. A 5.4-percent drop in prices for natural
cheese (except cottage cheese) accounted for most of the
January decline in the intermediate foods and feeds index.  Crude goods  The Producer Price Index for crude materials for further
processing moved up 1.5 percent in January. For the 3-month
period ending in January, crude material prices rose 2.6
percent following a 1.1-percent decline from July to October.
In January, nearly half of the broad-based monthly advance is
attributable to a 1.6-percent increase in prices for crude
energy materials. Also contributing to the January advance,
the index for crude foodstuffs and feedstuffs moved up 1.6
percent, and prices for crude nonfood materials less energy
rose 0.6 percent. (See table B.)  Crude energy:  The index for crude energy materials increased
1.6 percent in January. For the 3-month period ending in
January, prices for crude energy materials climbed 7.5 percent
subsequent to a 2.2- percent decline for the 3 months ended
October 2011. A 5.7-percent jump in the index for crude
petroleum was responsible for the January monthly advance in
crude energy prices. (See table 2.)  Crude foods:  The index for crude foodstuffs and feedstuffs
increased 1.6 percent in January. From October to January,
prices for crude foodstuffs and feedstuffs edged down 0.2
percent after rising 0.9 percent in the 3 months ended October
2011. Almost sixty percent of the monthly advance in January
can be traced to a 6.4-percent increase in the corn index.
Higher prices for slaughter steers and heifers and for
soybeans also were factors in the rise in the crude foodstuffs
and feedstuffs index.  Crude core:  The index for crude nonfood materials less energy
moved up 0.6 percent in January. For the 3 months ending in
January, crude core prices fell 1.7 percent subsequent to a
2.9-percent decline from July to October. The January monthly
rise was led by a 3.3-percent increase in the index for carbon
steel scrap. Higher prices for corn also contributed to the
advance in the crude core index.  Table B. Monthly and 12-month percent changes in selected
price indexes for intermediate goods and crude goods,
seasonally adjusted  Services Analysis  Trade industries:  The Producer Price Index for the net output
of total trade industries was unchanged in January following a
0.2-percent increase in December. (Trade indexes measure
changes in margins received by wholesalers and retailers.) In
January, higher margins received by wholesale trade industries
and grocery stores offset lower margins received by discount
department stores and gasoline stations.  Transportation and warehousing industries:  The Producer Price
Index for the net output of transportation and warehousing
industries moved up 1.0 percent in January after rising 0.6
percent in December. Over half of the January increase can be
traced to prices received by couriers, which increased 6.0
percent. Higher prices for scheduled passenger air
transportation and long-distance general freight trucking
(truckload) also contributed to the advance in the
transportation and warehousing industries index.  Traditional  service industries :  The Producer Price Index for
the net output of total traditional service industries
increased 0.4 percent in January following a 0.1-percent
decline in December. Leading this advance, prices received by
offices of lawyers moved up 1.6 percent. Higher prices
received by depository credit intermediaries and portfolio
managers also were factors in the rise in the index for total
traditional service industries. The Producer Price Index for
February 2012 is scheduled to be released on Thursday, March
15, 2012 at 8:30 a.m. (EDT).  Effective with this release, the Producer Price Index (PPI)
includes data for 19 resampled industries and updated industry
definitions reflecting the 2012 North American Industry
Classification System (NAICS). Industry samples and NAICS
definitions are periodically updated to reflect current
conditions more accurately when the structure, membership,
technology, or product mix of industries shift. The first
results of the resampling process were published in July 1986,
with subsequent efforts completed at 6-month intervals. NAICS
industry definitions are routinely updated in conjunction with
PPI weight updates.  Industries selected for resampling in January 2012 are noted
below. For information on specific index additions, deletions,
and recodes effective in January as a result of both the
resampling and NAICS classification system update, see the
January 2012 issue of the PPI Detailed Report online at
www.bls.gov/ppi/ppidr201201.pdf, or contact the PPI's Section
of Index Analysis and Public Information at  ppi-info@bls.gov 
or (202) 691-7705.  Recalculation of Seasonal Adjustment Factors  Effective with this release, seasonal adjustment factors have
been recalculated to reflect price-movement patterns during
2011 for stage-of-processing (SOP) and commodity-grouping
indexes. This routine annual recalculation may affect
previously published seasonally adjusted indexes and percent
changes for January 2007 through December 2011. Revised
seasonally adjusted data for this period, as well as seasonal
adjustment factors for commodity indexes to be used through
December 2012, were released February 14, 2012. To obtain this
information, contact the Division of Industrial Prices and
Price Indexes, Section of Index Analysis and Public
Information at  ppi-info@bls.gov  or (202) 691-7705, or visit
the Producer Price Index homepage at www.bls.gov/ppi.  The table below provides monthly seasonally adjusted percent
changes for the three major SOP categories during 2011, based
on former and recalculated seasonal factors. These percent
changes include final price data through August 2011 and may
differ from values shown in tables A and B of this release,
which include final price data through September 2011.  PPI Weights Updated  The Bureau of Labor Statistics has updated the value weights
used to calculate Producer Price Indexes to more accurately
reflect recent production and marketing patterns. The new
weights, which were introduced in February 2012 with the
release of January 2012 index data, are based on shipment
values from the year 2007. These value weights come from the
Census of Manufactures, the Census of Mining, the Census of
Services, and the Census of Agriculture. PPI weights had been
based on 2002 census shipment values since January 2007.  All PPIs were affected by this weight update, including all
the industry net output indexes, as well as indexes for
traditional commodity groupings. In addition, weights were
updated from the 2002 to the 2007 census for all stage-of-
processing indexes, durability of product indexes, and special
commodity-grouping indexes. This weight revision did not
change the arithmetic reference base for any indexes, the
period when PPIs were set to 100.  The basic structures of the PPI commodity and stage-of-
processing classification systems did not change as a result
of the weight revision. The PPIs classified according to the
North American Industry Classification System (NAICS),
however, were updated in February 2012 with the release of
January 2012 index data to reflect 2012 NAICS definitions
established by the U.S. Census Bureau. The weight update also
did result in significant shifts in the relative importance of
some industries and products. These shifts will impact
aggregate indexes in a manner commensurate with the relative
gains and losses in value weights from 2002 to 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story: Alex Tanzi in
Washington   atanzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Marco Babic
at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  