-- Iran’s Nuclear Breakthrough Called ‘Hype’ by U.S. as Crude Oil Price Gains
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2012-02-16T19:52:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/u-s-calls-iran-s-nuclear-claim-hype-as-oil-rises-on-fears.html
The U.S. played down  Iran ’s claim of
a “major” nuclear breakthrough as an exaggeration to bolster
nationalism amid tighter sanctions rather than a step toward
developing an atomic weapon.  Iranian state-run Press TV said yesterday 3,000 “new-
generation” Iranian-made centrifuges were installed at its main
uranium enrichment site at Natanz, and domestically made fuel
plates were loaded at a medical research reactor in Tehran. Iran
won’t be intimidated by outside pressure and will pursue
technological advances, the Iranian Students’ News Agency said.  “Our view on this is that it’s not terribly new and it’s
not terribly impressive,”  State Department  Spokeswoman Victoria Nuland told reporters in Washington yesterday. The announcement
was “hyped” for a domestic audience, she said.  The opposing assessments came as the European Union
received a letter from Iran’s top nuclear negotiator,  Saeed Jalili , about resuming negotiations with the U.S., France,
Britain,  Germany , Russia and  China . U.S. Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  said the international community wants serious
engagement about Iran’s program. Concern the dispute will lead
to a military conflict that disrupts oil supplies from the
Persian Gulf has contributed to a 3 percent increase in crude
prices in February. Iran is OPEC’s second-biggest producer.  Five-Week High  Oil for March delivery rose 48 cents, or 0.5 percent, to
$102.28 on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 1:41 p.m. The
contract rose yesterday to $101.80, the highest settlement since
Jan. 10, after Press TV reported that Iran halted crude oil
shipments to Italy, Spain, France,  Greece , Portugal and the
Netherlands five months before a European Union embargo takes
effect July 1.  “This is the kind of news that gets traders juices
flowing,”  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy &
Economic Research in Winchester, Massachusetts, said in a phone
interview. “The Iran situation has gone from lukewarm to a
simmer.”  The state-run Fars  news agency  said Iran summoned the
ambassadors from the European countries to the foreign ministry
to protest against the sanctions, without cutting exports.  Iran is “feeling the pressure” of “unprecedented
sanctions” that U.S. and European officials say are impeding
the Islamic republic’s acquisition of materials for its nuclear
program and hobbling its economy, according to Nuland.  Israeli Position  While Iran insists its nuclear program is for civilian
energy and medical research, the U.S. and European governments
say they suspect Iran is seeking an atomic weapons capability.
Israeli leaders say they haven’t ruled out a military strike to
prevent it.  “It’s a lot more likely that we will soon see major change
in the situation,” Lynch said. “Whether that’s an attack by
 Israel  or negotiations has yet to be determined.”  Iran hasn’t made a decision to proceed with the development
of a nuclear weapon even as it continues to enrich uranium,
Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  told a House panel today, citing
U.S. intelligence.  “We will not allow Iran to develop a nuclear weapon,”
Panetta said at the hearing of the House defense appropriations
panel.  Director of National Intelligence James Clapper told the
Senate Armed Services Committee today that he doubts Iran
eventually will make the political decision to move forward with
assembling a nuclear device.  “They have put themselves in a position, but there are
certain things they have not yet done and have not done for some
time,” he said.  New Sanctions  Over the past three months, the U.S. and the EU have
imposed numerous new sanctions restricting petroleum and non-
energy trade as well as financial transactions in an effort to
force Iran to give up any illicit nuclear activities. Sanctions
advocates say economic pressure is the best way to avert a
military conflict in a region that holds more than half the
world’s oil reserves.  Iran pumped 3.55 million barrels of crude a day in January,
11 percent of the total produced by the 12 members of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Oil sales earned Iran $73 billion in
2010, accounting for about 50 percent of government revenue and
80 percent of exports, the U.S. Energy Department estimates.  Nuclear Fuel Cycle  Press TV yesterday showed President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad at
the research reactor in Tehran, and reported that Iran has taken
the final step in completing the nuclear fuel cycle. Only a
handful of countries, including  France  and the U.S., have the
technology to build the 19.75 percent enriched fuel plates
needed for the reactor, according to Iranian officials.  David Albright , a nuclear physicist and former
international weapons inspector in Iraq, said in an interview
that the fuel plates aren’t hard to produce and have no military
implications.  “They’re so far behind that it sounds like they’re trying
to play catch-up, which makes me think it’s more for a domestic
audience than an international one,” said Albright, founder of
the Institute for Science and International Security in
Washington.  ‘Image of Progress’  Iranian media provided no details about the so-called new
generation of centrifuges, the sophisticated equipment used to
enrich uranium. Enriched uranium is used to fuel  power plants 
and reactors and, at 90 percent enrichment levels, it may be
further processed for use in atomic weapons.  “This is more symbolism than anything else,”  Dennis Ross ,
who served until recently as President Barack Obama’s chief
adviser on Iran, said in an interview. Iran has “claimed for
years that they are installing next generation centrifuges, and
they continue to have material and technical problems that
bedevil their operation.”  There is no evidence that Iran has overcome those failings,
Ross said. They are trying “to create the image of progress
even when they are not advancing, now because they want to
suggest they are not being affected by the pressure and
isolation” of sanctions, he said.  Iran’s announcements may have been timed for the day its
leaders sent a letter to the EU about resuming talks to signal
that the nation is “in a position of strength,” Peter Crail, a
research analyst at the Arms Control Association in  Washington ,
said in an interview. These were “posturing, more than real
advances,” he said.  Time for Diplomacy  There’s still an opportunity to persuade Iran’s leadership
to stop enriching uranium to 19.75 percent and to turn over its
stocks of so-called low-enriched uranium, according to Crail. To
induce Iran to halt domestic enrichment, the U.S. and  Europe 
have offered to provide nuclear fuel for civilian use.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said the U.S.
expects “to learn more” about yesterday’s developments from
International Atomic Energy Agency inspectors, who are due to
return to Iran Feb. 20-21. Officials from the United Nations’
agency last visited the Persian Gulf country for three days
ending Jan. 31.  Carney called reports of a nuclear breakthrough and threats
to cut off oil exports before an embargo takes effect
“provocative acts” that are “designed to distract attention
from the demonstrated impact” of sanctions.  Car-Bomb Attacks  Israel’s leaders, who have pressed for “crippling
sanctions” on Iran, have suggested time may be running short to
stop its rival’s progress toward becoming a nuclear weapons
state. The two countries accuse each other of engaging in
bombings and assassination attacks. Car-bomb attacks on Feb. 14
targeted Israeli diplomats in India and Georgia, which Israel
blamed on Iran. In  Thailand , police arrested Iranians allegedly
planning similar attacks. Iran says Israel is behind a series of
killings of Iranian nuclear scientists.  Iran declaration that its underground Fordo enrichment
facility “is in routine production,” is more significant than
its announcements yesterday, according to Olli Heinonen, a
Finnish physicist and former top inspector for the IAEA.  “By the end of this year they’ll have 250 to 290 kilograms
of 20 percent enriched uranium, and that’s a lot,” Heinonen
said in a phone interview from Cambridge,  Massachusetts , where
he is a senior fellow at Harvard University’s Belfer Center for
Science and International Affairs. That amount of 20 percent
enriched uranium could be used for two nuclear weapons if Iran
further enriched it to 90 percent, he said.  Iran’s known enrichment facilities are under IAEA
monitoring and there has been no report of enriched uranium
being diverted for weapons use.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  