-- Afghanistan’s Karzai Says Taliban Have Met His Team for Peace Talks
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2012-02-16T09:33:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/u-s-holding-afghanistan-peace-talks-with-taliban-karzai-spokesman-says.html
Afghan President  Hamid Karzai ’s
office said Taliban negotiators have met his representatives for
peace talks even after publicly rejecting any role for his
government in efforts to end the war.  “Both face-to-face and telephone discussions have been
held recently with senior Taliban officials,” said Aimal Faizi,
the director of communications at the Afghan presidency. “The
meetings have been held in Afghanistan and abroad,” and have
included U.S. officials in three-way talks, he said in a phone
interview today.  The  Taliban movement  has in the past said that it won’t
talk to Karzai because it regards him as a puppet of the U.S.-
led forces in Afghanistan. Cellphones of Taliban spokesmen were
switched off when called today.  Karzai arrived in  Pakistan  for talks with President Asif Ali Zardari and Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad ,
Pakistan’s GEO television channel reported. The talks are to
focus on regional security issues, according to Pakistani
officials cited by the official  news agency ,  Associated Press  of
Pakistan.  While Zardari’s civilian administration has said Pakistan
will facilitate Karzai’s talks with the Afghan Taliban,
Pakistan’s foreign and security policies are dominated by the
country’s army. The military offers support to Taliban factions
in hopes of using them to retain leverage in Afghanistan,
according to statements last year by the serving chairman of the
U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff, Admiral Mike Mullen.  Impact Unlikely  “Karzai’s latest talks with the Taliban are unlikely to
have a directly positive impact on the conflict,” said Waheed
Mujda, a former Taliban official who is an analyst at the
independent Kabul Center for Strategic Studies. “Karzai himself
has met this year in Kabul with Agha Jan Motasim, the former
finance minister of the Taliban government” that ruled
 Afghanistan  in the late 1990s, Mujda said.  While Motasim also is a relative of Mullah Omar, the
movement’s top leader, he has been pushed out of the movement’s
current leadership and may not be able to authoritatively
represent it, Mujda said in a phone interview.  Obama administration officials have said in the past year
they have had direct contacts with the Taliban as the U.S. draws
down its forces in Afghanistan and hands security duties to
Afghan army and police forces. The guerrilla movement said last
month it had reached an initial agreement with Qatar to open an
office in the Gulf state to facilitate negotiations.  The U.S. is considering the transfer of five Taliban
prisoners to Qatar from its Guantanamo Bay military prison to
encourage those talks, Director of National Intelligence James Clapper said in Washington Feb. 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 