-- UBS Immunity, RBS Ad Ban, Pentagon Capital: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-02-16T13:31:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/ubs-immunity-rbs-ad-ban-pentagon-capital-ruling-compliance.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank,
sought immunity from prosecution by Canadian regulators probing
a potential conspiracy to rig the price of derivatives
worldwide, three people with knowledge of the inquiry said.  The lender is the cooperating party referred to by Canada’s
 Competition Bureau  in court papers filed by the regulator with
the Ontario Superior Court in May, said the people, who declined
to be identified, because the identity of the firm hasn’t been
made public.  The papers, shown yesterday to Bloomberg News by court
clerks, show a bank told the regulator that traders and cash
brokers conspired to influence the yen  London  interbank offered
rate from 2007 to 2010 to profit on interest-rate derivatives
linked to the benchmark. Regulators worldwide are investigating
whether banks attempted to manipulate the London, Tokyo and euro
interbank offered rates, known as Libor, Tibor and Euribor.  UBS has already been given conditional immunity by the
Swiss Competition Commission as part of an investigation into
suspected manipulation of the Yen Libor, Tibor and Swiss franc
Libor rates. The Zurich-based lender was last year granted
similar immunity by the U.S. Department of Justice as part of
its probes of Yen Libor and Euroyen Tibor rates.  Dominik von Arx, a spokesman for UBS in London, declined to
comment on the case. Alexa Keating, a spokeswoman for the
Competition Bureau, declined to comment on the identity of the
cooperating party.  Compliance Policy  Carbon Traders Group Urges Overhaul of EU Cap-and-Trade Plan  The European Union should change its carbon-trading plan by
introducing a mechanism to allow changing the bloc’s pollution
cap to reflect economic conditions, the  International Emissions
Trading Association  said.  While the world’s biggest cap-and-trade program is working
as intended, fragmented policies are undermining its price
signal at the time when an economic slowdown weighs on the
market, IETA said in a statement yesterday. The associations’
president  Henry Derwent  said in a phone interview that the group
wants “a reexamination of a system which would essentially
index the baseline and make this more like an indexed system.”  The Geneva-based group also called on the EU policy makers
to provide a “credible” framework for long-term carbon
targets.  Started in 2005, the EU cap-and-trade program is the
cornerstone of the bloc’s carbon-reduction policy, imposing
pollution limits on more than 11,000 manufacturers and utilities
in the region. Those who discharge less carbon dioxide can sell
their surplus allowances.  For more, click here.  Volcker Rule May Harm EU Banks, Barnier Warns Bernanke, Geithner  The European Union’s financial-services chief criticized
parts of the U.S.’s proposed Volcker rule, warning that it would
place a “disproportionate” burden on EU lenders and risk
damaging markets.  Michel Barnier  wrote to U.S. regulators including Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  and Treasury Secretary  Timothy F.
Geithner  complaining that the measure as drafted would also
hamper governments’ ability to sell sovereign debt, according to
a copy of his letter obtained by Bloomberg News.  The measure may have “a number of unintended, non-
justifiable consequences for non-U.S. banks, markets and
institutions,” Barnier, the European commissioner responsible
for drafting financial-services legislation, said in the letter
dated Feb. 8.  The rule, named for former Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker , would
seek to ban banks from proprietary trading while allowing them
to continue short-term trades for hedging or market-making. It
also would limit banks’ investments in private-equity and hedge
funds.  The U.S. proposal is one of the most contentious provisions
of the Dodd-Frank Act. The draft has also been criticized by
U.S. lenders. Barnier has said he will raise the Volcker rule
when he travels to the U.S. for meetings with regulators on Feb.
23-24.  Compliance Action  RBS Ads Banned for ‘Misleading’ Claim on Being Last Bank in Town  Television advertising for  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
saying the company and its NatWest brand would “continue to
provide banking services wherever we’re the last bank in town”
was banned by U.K. regulators.  A lawmaker and the  Campaign for Community Banking Services 
complained that there was at least one place, Farsley in
northern  England , where NatWest closed the town’s last bank, the
Advertising Standards Authority said in a  statement  on its
website.  The “misleading” ad “would be interpreted by viewers to
mean that NatWest would not close a branch where it was the last
one in its immediate locality,” the regulator said.  RBS said that although the Farsley branch closed, bank
services were still available at the NatWest in a nearby town,
and that the company’s promise of keeping banking services
available wasn’t a vow to keep branches open. Another closed
branch in Bettyhill, northern Scotland, was later served by a
mobile bank, RBS said in the statement.  RBS said in an e-mailed statement when asked about the
ruling that it is proud to offer services in towns were other
banks have closed and does so in 168 locations. “Our commitment
is independently assessed by Deloitte. While we disagree with
the ASA’s decision, we welcome their offer to work more closely
with them in the future,” RBS said.  French Antitrust Agency Focuses on Credit Cards, Media in 2012  Payment methods, media concentration and online retailing
are priorities for France’s competition regulator for 2012, with
reports and decisions scheduled in each area this year.  The  Competition Authority  will continue efforts on payment
methods, focusing now on fees associated with credit cards,
automatic withdrawals and transfers, president Bruno Lasserre
said yesterday in Paris. The regulator has not decided whether
to pursue sanctions to achieve this, he said.  Banks challenged a 384.9 million euro-fine ($505 million)
on check fees levied in 2010, and the Paris appeals court should
rule soon on their bid to overturn the penalty, Lasserre said.
Lenders cut interbank fees on bank cards by as much as 36
percent to settle a probe last year.  The Competition Authority will report in June on its review
of the impact of online retailers on traditional store sales,
and the role third parties like shipping companies and payment
processors play in influencing Internet shoppers.  In March, the regulator will deliver interim findings in
its investigation into the rising cost of automobile repair and
maintenance.  Karachi Stock Exchange to Start Indexes for Regional Markets  Pakistan’s Karachi Stock Exchange, Asia’s cheapest equity
market, will introduce local currency indexes for regional
markets to help bolster trading volumes that have slumped after
the introduction of a tax on shares.  Nadeem Naqvi, the exchange’s managing director, made the
announcement at a news conference in Karachi yesterday.  The exchange, which reported an operating loss of 337
million rupees ($3.7 million) in the year ended June 30, needs
to boost its income which comes through a levy on transactions.
When Pakistan introduced a tax on capital gains on share
purchases from July 1, 2010, the average daily volume slumped to
60 million shares last year from 108 million in 2010 and 169.14
million in 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Abdul Hafeez Shaikh, then finance minister, pledged last
month to ease rules on the tax to make collection easier.
Shaikh, who is currently is adviser to the prime minister on
economic affairs, didn’t give details.  The exchange plans to double the investor base from 250,000
individuals in three years through awareness workshops and
marketing to expatriate Pakistanis, Naqvi said.  NYSE Liffe Wants to Start Delivery Limits on London Commodities  NYSE Liffe, the derivatives arm of NYSE Euronext, wants to
introduce delivery limits for its London commodity futures and
options.  Buyers wouldn’t be able to take delivery of more than 7,500
contracts on cocoa and robusta coffee, 5,000 contracts on white
sugar and 2,000 contracts on feed wheat, the exchange said in an
“info flash” Feb. 15. The limit also applies to sellers.
Comments on the proposals are requested by March 9 for changes
to take effect for positions in November 2012 coffee, December
2012 sugar and cocoa and January 2013 for feed wheat, it said.  “The proposals are part of the continuing development of
the exchange’s existing monitoring and position management
arrangements which are designed to maintain market confidence,”
the exchange said. “In the course of discussions with market
participants it has been confirmed that many would welcome a
more formalized and prescribed position management regime which
would help them to understand more clearly the exchange’s
approach to regulation and its expectations of members and other
users.”  Singapore Probes Potential Breaches by China Sky, Directors  China Sky Chemical Fibre Co. (CSCF)  and its directors face a
criminal probe into regulatory breaches in Singapore, one month
after the city’s stock exchange dropped a lawsuit against the
company.  “The  Monetary Authority of Singapore  has received a report
from the  Singapore Exchange  on potential breaches of the
Securities and Futures Act” by China Sky, the regulator and the
police said in a joint statement today. MAS referred the
potential breaches to the Commercial Affairs Department,
Singapore’s main white-collar crime investigation agency.  The Singapore Exchange sued the Chinese nylon-fiber maker
on Jan. 6 to compel the appointment of a special auditor to
investigate “interested-party transactions,” a failed land
purchase and certain repair costs. Today’s statement didn’t
specify the breaches or the directors that are being
investigated.  China Sky’s lawyer Leonard Chia declined to comment on the
probe. The  Singapore Exchange (SGX)  said in an e-mailed statement it’s
not in a position to comment on the ongoing investigation. Both
the monetary authority and the police declined to comment beyond
their statement.  All three independent directors at China Sky quit Jan. 5,
citing non-compliance with the bourse’s order to name the
auditor.  Spain Regulator Lifts Short-Selling Ban on Financial Stocks  Spain’s  stock -market regulator lifted a six-month ban on
short-selling of financial stocks, saying the “extreme
volatility” that justified the ban had eased. Banking shares
plunged, led by  Bankia (BKIA)  SA.  Steps taken by the European Union to tighten budget
discipline have helped stabilize markets, as have the  European
Central Bank ’s longer-term financing operations and the Spanish
government’s overhaul of the banking industry announced on Feb.
2, the  regulator said .  France, Belgium, Spain and Italy moved to ban short-selling
in August in an effort to stabilize markets after European banks
hit their lowest levels since the credit crisis of 2008. France
and Belgium lifted their bans this week. Spain had left the ban
open-ended since Sept. 28.  Naked short-selling remains banned, according to Spanish
law, the CNMV said in the statement. France and Belgium also
prohibit the practice.  For more, click here.  Courts  Pentagon Capital Must Pay SEC $76.8 Million for Abusive Trading  Pentagon Capital Management Plc, a closed U.K. hedge fund,
was told by a judge to pay $76.8 million in a lawsuit filed in
2008 by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission over
allegedly abusive mutual fund trading.  U.S. District Judge Robert Sweet in Manhattan ruled
yesterday that the SEC proved its claim in a 17-day trial last
year that the hedge fund and its chief executive officer, Lewis
Chester, engaged in a fraudulent scheme by making mutual fund
trades after the 4 p.m. close of markets in  New York .  Sweet ruled that Pentagon Capital and Chester must disgorge
$38.4 million in improper profits on the trades. He imposed the
same amount as an additional civil penalty.  “We are extremely disappointed by the judgment and intend
to appeal,” Frank Razzano, a lawyer for the defendants, said in
a telephone interview.  Sweet ruled against the SEC’s claim that Pentagon Capital
committed fraud by making deceptive, rapid-fire transactions
known as market-timed trades.  Pentagon Capital said in 2008 that it was closing and
returning investors’ money because of the SEC investigation and
civil suit.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Pentagon
Capital Management Plc, 08-cv-3324, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Citigroup Mortgage Unit to Pay $158.3 Million in Settlement  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s CitiMortgage unit agreed to pay $158.3
million to settle claims tied to its actions in a federal home-
loan insurance program, the Manhattan U.S. Attorney’s office
said.  The U.S. settled a lawsuit against the Citigroup unit that
alleged more than six years of misconduct in connection with the
Federal Housing Administration Direct Endorsement Program, the
U.S. Attorney’s office said yesterday in a statement. In the
settlement, CitiMortgage admitted to falsely stating that some
loans were eligible for mortgage insurance through the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development, according to the
statement.  Five banks including Citigroup settled with 49 states on
Feb. 9 to end a probe into abusive foreclosure practices, with
Citigroup agreeing to pay as much as $2.2 billion.  Mark Rodgers , a spokesman for New York-based Citigroup,
said in an e-mailed statement that Citigroup is pleased to
resolve the matter and the bank has “fully provided for this
settlement as of the fourth quarter of 2011.”  Interviews/Speeches  Bonnafe Says BNP Paribas Has No Plans to Boost Capital  Jean-Laurent Bonnafe, chief executive officer of  BNP
Paribas SA (BNP) , discussed the company’s business performance,
capital levels, bonus payments and exposure to Greece.  He spoke during the evening on Feb. 14 in Paris with
Bloomberg Television’s Caroline Connan.  For more, click here.  Comings and Goings  FSA’s Cole to Leave Agency After Leading Insider-Trade Crackdown  Margaret Cole , a managing director at the U.K.’s finance
regulator who led its clampdown on market abuse, is leaving the
agency after seven years.  Cole will continue working at the Financial Services
Authority until the end of March and then will be on so-called
gardening leave until September, the agency said yesterday in a
statement. Under Cole’s stewardship, the FSA fined banks
including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , UBS AG and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  for
financial rule breaches and levied its largest individual
penalty ever.  The FSA, which was set up in 1997, prosecuted its first
criminal case of  insider trading  in 2008. The agency is to be
abolished in 2013 and replaced by at least two new authorities
as part of an overhaul of financial supervision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 