-- UN’s Ban Says Syrian Hospital ‘Torture Centers’ Must Close
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2012-02-16T14:32:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/un-s-ban-says-syrian-hospital-torture-centers-must-close-1-.html
Syria ’s government has probably
committed crimes against humanity by using hospitals to torture
dissidents and bombarding civilians, United Nations Secretary
General Ban Ki-Moon said.  “We see neighborhoods shelled indiscriminately, hospitals
used as torture centers, children as young as 10 years old
jailed and abused,” Ban said today at a press conference in
Vienna. “We see almost certain crimes against humanity.”  The United Nations’ 193-members will vote today on a non-
binding resolution denouncing Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.
Around 5,400 Syrians have died since opposition forces began
protesting Assad’s rule in March, the UN says. A binding
resolution prodding the president to resign was vetoed by  China 
and Russia Feb. 4.  “What is important at this time is that the Syrian
authorities have to stop killing their own people,” Ban said.
“This violence has to stop on all sides, both by the national
and opposition forces.”  Ban will meet with Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov 
and French Foreign Minister  Alain Juppe  later today in the
Austrian capital.  France  is preparing another Security Council
resolution that would create safe passage for UN humanitarian
aid to Syria, Lavrov said today at a press briefing following a
meeting with Juppe.  Lavrov said that Russia would support a so-called
humanitarian corridor in Syria if all sides involved in the
conflict agree to it.  “Intervention from the outside won’t solve this problem,”
Lavrov said late yesterday in Vienna. “Only intensive dialogue
within Syria will bring about a solution.”  The foreign ministers were attending a conference in Vienna
about the Afghan opium trade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  