-- UN Symbolically Censures Syria’s Assad
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-02-16T21:44:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/un-s-symbolic-censure-of-syria-s-assad-to-show-its-lack-of-bite.html
The  United Nations  denounced Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad’s deadly crackdown on protesters as
his security forces pushed on with attacks on the city of Homs,
highlighting the world body’s inability to stem the bloodshed.  With 137 votes in favor, 12 against and 17 abstentions, the
193-member General Assembly approved a non-binding resolution
that condemned Assad’s human rights violations and endorsed an
 Arab League  plan to end the almost yearlong conflict. Those
voting against included Russia,  China ,  North Korea ,  Iran , Cuba
and  Venezuela .  In Syria, security forces extended a two-week artillery
attack on the city of Homs and the army also deployed armored
vehicles and raided homes in Qaboun, a suburb of the capital,
Damascus, and carried out attacks in the southern province of
Daraa, the U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said.  “The longer we debate, the more people will die,” UN
Secretary General Ban Ki-moon said in Vienna ahead of the vote.
Citing the shelling of neighborhoods and jailing of children by
the regime, he said “we see almost certain crimes against
humanity.”  While the lopsided vote highlights Assad’s growing
isolation, the resolution lacks bite after a similarly-phrased
binding measure prodding him to step aside was blocked by
Russian and Chinese vetoes Feb. 4 in the Security Council, the
UN’s decision-making body. That is the second time the two veto-
wielders have blocked efforts to hold Assad accountable.  The UN has estimated that more than 5,400 people had been
killed in  Syria  through last year, while Saudi Arabia says the
death toll is at least 7,000. At least 10 defectors and four
civilians were killed today in Hama from shelling, the
observatory said. The Local Coordination Committees, a group
that opposes Assad, said at least 32 were killed yesterday.  Limited Options  With immediate options at the UN exhausted, Western and
Arab nations are organizing a “Friends of Syria” conference in
 Tunisia  next week to search for measures -- short of military
intervention -- to shift the balance against Assad and provide a
measure of support for his opponents. A potentially divisive
issue is whether some Arab nations may seek to arm the
opposition.  “There is a lot at stake and, given its strategic
importance, it will be very hard for regional countries to keep
their hands off Syria,” Andrew J. Tabler, a fellow at the
Washington Institute for Near East Policy, said in an interview.  In Vienna yesterday, Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov 
said his nation would support a UN role in Syrian peacekeeping
if outside intervention isn’t allowed and the opposition agrees
to a cease-fire.  Russia, China  Russia  is dispatching an envoy, Alexei Pushkov, head of the
lower house of parliament’s foreign affairs committee, for
meetings with the Syrian leadership in Damascus next week,
Interfax reported today. In addition, Chinese Vice Foreign
Minister Zhai Jun will travel to Syria Feb. 17 to Feb. 18,
Foreign Ministry spokesman Liu Weimin said at a briefing in
Beijing today.  While Lavrov said dialogue with the opposition could lead
to Assad’s departure from power, Syrian forces stepped up their
assault even as Assad called yesterday for a constitutional
referendum on Feb. 26. The draft document promised “political
pluralism” and democratic elections, and would limit presidents
to two seven-year terms.  Proposal ‘Laughable’  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  called Assad’s
proposal “laughable” and said yesterday that “promises of
reforms have usually been followed by an increase in brutality
and have never been delivered upon by this regime since the
beginning of the peaceful demonstrations.”  Assad has blamed the revolt, which is the strongest
challenge to his rule since he took office after his father died
in 2000, on “terrorists” and foreign enemies.  Stung by the failure in the UN  Security Council , which
alone can authorize sanctions and military intervention, the 22-
member Arab League is struggling to influence the outcome in
Syria. It has already imposed economic sanctions on the Assad
regime. Assad has rejected all of the resolutions put forward by
Arab leaders.  The Tunis gathering may attract representatives from as
many as 90 nations, including many foreign ministers. It may
highlight anew the dilemmas the international community faces in
trying to confront Syria, including whether to arm Assad’s
opposition.  Groups inside Syria that operate loosely under the banner
of the Free Syrian Army consist of local armed groups with only
limited contact with armed rebels in neighboring areas. The Gulf
States, led by the monarchies in  Saudi Arabia  and Qatar, are the
most likely candidates to supply the opposition with the means
to buy weapons, perhaps covertly.  Asked about the possibility that Arab states might arm
Syrian rebels, State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said
Feb. 14 that the U.S. wants instead to see a peaceful democratic
transition.  “What in practice can they do?” said  Marwan Muasher , a
former Jordanian foreign minister, commenting on the “Friends”
meeting. “Not much.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  