-- Underwear Bomber Abdulmutallab Sentenced to Life in Prison in Terror Trial
-- B y   S t e v e   R a p h a e l   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-02-17T05:01:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/underwear-bomber-abdulmutallab-gets-life-for-christmas-2009-plane-attack.html
Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, convicted
of attempting to bomb a Northwest Airlines plane on Christmas
Day 2009 with explosives hidden in his underwear, was sentenced
to life in prison.  The Nigerian-born defendant pleaded guilty in October to
eight felony counts, including attempted murder and attempted
use of a weapon of mass destruction.  U.S. District Judge Nancy Edmunds in  Detroit  yesterday
sentenced him to life in prison on five counts and 20 years on
three counts.  “This is an act of terrorism that cannot be quarreled
with,” Edmunds said in court. The defendant “poses a
significant ongoing threat to U.S. citizens everywhere.”  Abdulmutallab was accused of trying to detonate explosives
in his underwear as Northwest Airlines Flight 253, with 279
passengers and 11 crew members, approached Detroit on Dec. 25,
2009. He set fire to his clothing and a wall before passengers
subdued him.  The U.S. said Abdulmutallab traveled to Yemen to become
involved in a violent jihad on behalf of al-Qaeda and practiced
detonating explosives before the failed attack. The attack on
the Northwest flight was masterminded by Anwar al-Awlaki, a
U.S.-born Islamic cleric who was killed last year in an American
missile attack in Yemen, prosecutors said.  Terrorism Threats  The attempted bombing set off heightened security measures
at U.S. airports. In January 2010 President  Barack Obama  ordered
U.S. agencies to set clearer lines of responsibility for
pursuing terrorism threats and to streamline criteria for adding
names to government watch lists.  Abdulmutallab was on the government’s Terrorist Identities
Datamart Environment list, which names about 550,000 individuals
with possible terrorist links. He hadn’t been moved from this
database to narrower terrorism watch lists including a
“selectee” list of about 14,000 names that triggers additional
screening at airports or to the “No Fly” list of about 4,000
names, U.S. officials said in 2010.  Abdulmutallab pleaded guilty Oct. 12 on the second day of
trial. In a statement to the court that day, Abdulmutallab said
he tried to bomb the plane as an act of retaliation against the
U.S. for the “killing of my brothers and sisters in Muslim
lands.”  Explosive Device  The defendant, who represented himself, has said he
“intentionally carried an explosive device” onto the plane,
concealed in his underwear.  “God is great,” Abdulmutallab said in Arabic near the end
of his sentencing yesterday, adding that he is “proud” to kill
in the name of God.  The government sought the maximum sentences allowed on each
of the counts, calling Abdulmutallab “an unrepentant would-be
mass murderer” in its sentencing memorandum last week. “By his
own words, defendant has shown that he continues to desire to
harm the  United States  and its citizens, and that he views it as
his religious obligation to do so.”  The defendant has never shown remorse for his actions and
refers to the bomb as a “blessed weapon,” Assistant U.S.
Attorney Cathleen Corken said at the sentencing yesterday.  Abdulmutallab engaged in a “cold-blooded, calculated plan
to kill everyone aboard the plane,” she said. He failed in his
mission only because the weapon failed, she said.  “His intention was to end our lives,” Lemare Mason, the
Northwest flight attendant who put out the flames when
Abdulmutallab tried to detonate the device, said at the hearing.
Mason said he wakes up in night sweats because of the incident
and has been in therapy.  The incident was “the most horrible moment of my life,”
Shama Chopra, a passenger from  Montreal , said at the hearing.
Terrorists have wreaked havoc worldwide and need to be brought
to justice, she said.  “Today is your turn,” she told the defendant.  The case is U.S. v. Abdulmutallab, 10-cr-20005, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Michigan  (Detroit).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Raphael in Detroit
at   sraphael5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 