-- Hungary Should Keep Rate Unchanged Until IMF Agreement, Policy Makers Say
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-02-16T11:04:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/hungary-should-keep-rate-unchanged-until-imf-agreement-policy-makers-say.html
Hungary ’s central bank should keep
borrowing costs unchanged until the government agrees on an
International Monetary Fund bailout, which may allow rate cuts,
policy makers Ferenc Gerhardt and Gyorgy Kocziszky said.  The bank should adopt a “wait-and-see” approach until an
IMF deal, Gerhardt and Kocziszky said yesterday in an interview
in Budapest. The rate-setting Monetary Council is ready to react
“immediately” to market developments if needed, Gerhardt said.  Gerhardt and Kocziszky are two of four first-year rate-
setters who outvoted central bank President Andras Simor and his
two deputies last month to unexpectedly keep the benchmark  two-
week deposit rate  unchanged at 7 percent, the highest in the
European Union, after back-to-back increases. Simor and his two
deputies backed a half-point increase.  “A wait-and-see approach is definitely right until there
is an agreement with the IMF and the EU,” Gerhardt said. An IMF
deal may “strengthen” the case for the “start of a rate-cut
cycle,” Kocziszky said.  The forint yesterday rose to the highest level against the
euro since September and has strengthened 10 percent, the most
in the world, since Premier  Viktor Orban  pledged Jan. 5 to work
toward a “quick” agreement with the IMF and the EU. The
currency weakened 0.8 percent to 293.78 by 9:46 a.m. in Budapest
and the benchmark BUX stock index retreated 1.6 percent.  IMF Reversal  Orban reversed a policy of shunning international aid after
the forint plunged 16 percent in the second half of 2011, the
most in the world, and Hungary’s sovereign credit was cut to
junk at Moody’s Investors Service,  Fitch Ratings  and Standard
and Poor’s.  Hungary is trying to revive talks with the IMF and EU after
negotiations broke down in December over new legislation on the
central bank. The government will reach a deal in the first
half, Economy Ministry State Secretary Zoltan Csefalvay said
Feb. 14.  Rate-setters were split last month as the majority said
January’s rise in Hungarian asset prices reflected a “sustained
trend” of improving country risk, according to the minutes of
the Jan. 24 meeting, published yesterday. Others said this was
“primarily” caused by an increase of global risk appetite, the
minutes show.  “The government clearly and decisively committed itself to
an agreement with the IMF,” Gerhardt said. “This justifies a
calm, wait-and-see attitude.”  Cutting Rates  An IMF agreement is necessary to open the way for cutting
 interest rates , Gerhardt and Kocziszky said. Developments in the
euro area,  oil prices  and inflation will also determine whether
rate cuts are possible, Gerhardt said.  “I’m reading that London-based economists are saying we
can return to a 6 percent rate by the end of the year,”
Gerhardt said. “This really depends on whether the agreement
with the EU and the IMF is reached, when it’s reached, its
contents, the amount, and the conditions.”  The central bank’s maneuvering room is “limited” and
“monetary easing may pose financial stability risks” because
it may lead to the weakening of the forint, boosting the level
of debt, of which 65 percent is denominated in foreign
currencies, Simor said today at a conference in Budapest.  An IMF agreement may strengthen the credibility of
government policy and reduce financing costs, Simor said.  ‘Meaningful Steps’  Investors will “calmly wait” for Hungary’s negotiations
with the IMF and the EU “as long as they believe the
government’s communication is realistic” and that the Cabinet
“has taken and will take meaningful steps to reach an
agreement,” Kocziszky said.  Investors are wrong to assume that an agreement with the
two institutions is a “done deal” as a rally in local assets
may make the government less willing to compromise on
legislation and economic policy, Tim Ash, the head of emerging-
market research at the Royal Bank of  Scotland  in  London , said in
an e-mail after meeting government officials and Simor.  “The market still seems to assume that an IMF agreement is
a ‘done deal,’ but our overall impressions from the trip remain
that this is certainly not the case,” Ash said.  The Monetary Council doesn’t need to react to a one-time
spike in the  inflation rate , which rose to 5.5 percent in
January, the highest since April 2010, from 4.1 percent in
December, Gerhardt and Kocziszky said. Policy makers target
inflation of 3 percent.  VAT Increase  The acceleration in price growth was caused by an increase
in the value-added  tax rate  and a weakening currency boosting
fuel prices, Kocziszky said. Policy makers need to focus on
trends and not a single piece of data, Gerhardt said.  Both rate-setters denied that a split had emerged in the
Monetary Council with the four first-year rate setters,
appointed in 2011 with ruling-party backing, on one side and
Simor and his two deputies on the other. The Economy Ministry
objected to two 50 basis-point rate increases in November and
December.  “There are seven independent people” in the Monetary
Council, Kocziszky said. “On fundamental questions, I think
there are no differences between the seven. There are
differences on how I evaluate certain processes and how they
manifest themselves in my context.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net 
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  