-- Huntsman May Relocate Some Capacity to U.S. After Gas-Price Drop
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-02-16T21:10:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/huntsman-may-relocate-some-production-capacity-to-u-s-on-gas-price-drop.html
Huntsman Corp. (HUN) , the world’s biggest
maker of textile dyes, plans to expand chemical production in
the U.S. and may relocate some capacity from other countries to
take advantage of a drop in domestic natural-gas prices.  Gas is cheap enough to justify shifting some production to
the U.S. for energy-intensive products such as MDI, an
insulation ingredient, and surfactants, which are used in
detergents, Chief Executive Officer Peter Huntsman said today in
a telephone interview.  “In some of those products we already have taken steps to
more fully utilize our North American cost advantage,” he said.
“In the course of the next 18 months, we will incrementally be
expanding capacity and continuing to look at capacity in  North
America  to take advantage of the gas situation.”  The company plans to fully utilize existing North American
capacity while it plans expansions to be announced at a later
date, said the CEO, whose brother Jon Huntsman Jr. withdrew his
candidacy for the Republican presidential nomination last month.
Adding 10 employees at a factory creates 100 jobs in related
fields such as shipping, construction and maintenance, Peter
Huntsman said.  North American gas prices are the equivalent of crude oil
costing $15 to $20 a barrel, compared with $60 in  Europe  and $90
in  Asia , he said. U.S. gas futures fell last month to their
lowest in a decade.  Construction Recovery  Huntsman, which is based in Salt Lake City, joins chemical
producers  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  and  Methanex Corp. (MX)  in expanding U.S.
production to take advantage of cheap gas. Dow plans to spend $4
billion to boost production of chemicals such as ethylene and
propylene in Texas and  Louisiana . Vancouver-based Methanex plans
to move a Chilean methanol plant to Louisiana.  Peter Huntsman said earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization this year probably will be
unchanged from 2011, although growth in the U.S. and  China 
appears stronger than last month when company was working on its
budget. Accelerating home construction could result in
unexpected earnings growth from titanium dioxide, a white
pigment that accounted for 60 percent of fourth-quarter profit,
he said.  “If I were putting that budget together today, I’d still
say ‘flat,’ but I’m more optimistic that it could be on the
upside,” he said. “We are going to see real improvement in our
polyurethanes business, in our advanced materials business and
in our textiles effect business.”  ‘High’ Valuations  Huntsman rose 7.7 percent to $13.99 in  New York . The shares
gained 40 percent this year.  Ebitda excluding some items rose 39 percent last year to
$1.21 billion, Huntsman Corp. said today in a statement. Ebitda
in 2012 is estimated to be $1.33 billion according to the
average estimate of seven analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Huntsman said he doesn’t plan “to get overly aggressive”
in pursuing acquisitions, particularly in titanium oxide, where
valuations are “running on the high side.”  The company, which is run from its office in The Woodlands,
 Texas , unsuccessfully offered to buy titanium-dioxide assets in
2009 from  Tronox Inc. (TROX) , a competitor that was in bankruptcy at
the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  