-- Turkish Lira Falls to 2-Week Low as Fed-Inspired Optimism Wanes
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-02-16T16:05:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/turkish-lira-falls-to-2-week-low-as-fed-inspired-optimism-wanes.html
The lira declined to its lowest
level this month as minutes from the  Federal Reserve  spurred
speculation a third round of bond purchases may be less
probable.  The Turkish currency depreciated as much as 0.8 percent
before paring its loss to 0.1 percent at 1.7697 per dollar as of
5:24 p.m. in Istanbul, its weakest level since Jan. 31,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yields (BENCH)  on the benchmark
two-year debt rose 1 basis point, or 0.1 percentage point, to
9.36 percent, trimming this year’s gain to 212 basis points.  Yesterday’s Fed minutes show the U.S. central bank is “not
that near” to another round of quantitative easing, Erkin Isik,
a fixed-income strategist at Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS, said from
Istanbul in an e-mailed response to Bloomberg’s questions.  “A few” members of the  Federal Open Market Committee  said
economic conditions could warrant buying assets “before long,”
and others indicated that action would become necessary if the
“economy lost momentum” or price gains seemed likely to remain
lower than the Fed’s 2 percent goal, according to minutes of
their Jan. 24-25 meeting released yesterday in  Washington .  The lira rallied 6.8 percent this year in the second-
biggest gain among  emerging markets  in  Europe , the  Middle East 
and Africa as risk appetite for emerging-market assets was re-
invigorated after Federal Reserve Chairman said on Jan. 25 that
U.S. interest rates will remain exceptionally low for longer and
hinted there may be a third round of quantitative easing.  The Turkish central bank reduced lending at its lowest 5.75
percent benchmark interest rate to 18 billion liras during Feb.
13 to Feb. 16, down from 28 billion liras ($16 billion) last
week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  