-- Mutual Funds Group Calls Financial Advisers to Fight Money Fund Proposals
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-02-16T20:16:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/mutual-funds-group-calls-financial-advisers-to-fight-money-fund-proposals.html
Paul Schott Stevens, president of
the  Investment Company Institute , called on financial advisers
to join his trade group in fighting money market mutual fund
reforms being drafted by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  The SEC’s plans “won’t reduce risks or help investors,”
Stevens said, according to the draft of a speech he delivered
today to an audience of registered investment advisers at a
conference in  New York  organized by  Bloomberg Link . “Instead,
they will harm investors, business and state and local
government, and the economy.”  The mutual funds industry and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce
are fighting the SEC proposals, expected to be made public by
next month, saying they would destroy the $2.6 trillion money
fund business. Regulators have debated how to make the funds
more stable since the September 2008 collapse of the $62.5
billion Reserve Primary Fund, which triggered an industrywide
run on funds by clients and helped freeze global credit markets.  “They will drive retail investors back to the fixed, low
rates paid by banks, institutional investors to less regulated,
higher-risk alternatives, and fund companies out of the
business,” Stevens said of the proposals.  While Chairman  Mary Schapiro  “is pleased with the initial
reforms the SEC has put in place, she believes we still must
address the structural weaknesses that make  money market funds 
susceptible to runs that can create risks for the entire
financial system,”  John Nester , an agency spokesman, said in an
e-mailed statement. “That is why we are continuing to focus on
additional reforms.”  Floating Value  The first of two proposals being worked out by the SEC’s
staff would force money funds to abandon their traditional $1
share price, adopting a so-called floating net-asset value.
Industry executives have fought the idea for at least three
years.  The second plan would require funds to build a capital
cushion designed to absorb potential losses, and to hold back at
least 3 percent of client withdrawals for 30 days.  “The redemption freeze would strike directly at the
convenience and liquidity that money market fund investors
want,” Stevens said.  He urged investment advisers to speak out against the
plans.  Both proposals are likely to receive initial approval from
commissioners before a period of public comment. Final passage
of either proposal would require approval from at least three of
five commissioners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  