-- Variable Annuities End Streak of Gains as MetLife Retreats
-- B y   A n d r e a   L u d t k e
-- 2012-02-16T21:08:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/variable-annuity-sales-end-streak-of-quarterly-gains-as-metlife-retreats.html
U.S. variable-annuity sales fell for
the first time in seven quarters as insurers including  MetLife
Inc. (MET)  seek to reduce risk.  Fourth-quarter sales fell less than 1 percent industrywide
to $38.4 billion after increasing for six straight quarters when
compared with a year ago, trade group Limra said today on its
 website . MetLife, the largest U.S. life insurer, said sales of
the products declined 16 percent in the period to $7.2 billion
from $8.6 billion in the third quarter, according to a Feb. 14
statement from the New York-based company.  “One of our guiding principles at MetLife is to strike the
right balance between growth, profitability and risk,” Chief
Executive Officer  Steven Kandarian  said yesterday on a
conference call. “We are committed to actively managing the
level of our variable-annuity sales.” MetLife was the No. 1
seller of variable annuities in the U.S. in the second and third
quarters, according to Limra data.  Variable annuities, which provide guaranteed incomes to
customers regardless of market performance, can lead to losses
for insurers when equities plunge. Sun Life Financial Inc.,
Canada’s third-largest insurer, posted a $525 million fourth-
quarter net loss this week fueled by the guarantees after saying
on Dec. 12 it will stop selling variable annuities in the U.S.  Managing Risk  “Companies are looking to manage their risk in the kind of
products they’re offering, and as a result it has had an impact
on the sales,” Joseph Montminy, Limra’s assistant vice
president of annuity research, said in a telephone interview.
“We do think going forward the sales will level off in 2012
around the same level as in the fourth quarter.”  Consumer demand for investments with guaranteed lifetime
income is climbing. While total annuity sales slowed in the
third and fourth quarters, double-digit growth in the first half
of 2011 resulted in an 8 percent increase from a year ago to
$240.3 billion, Limra  said  today.  MetLife said on Feb. 1 it had reassigned Michael Farrell,
previously head of U.S. distribution. William Wheeler, who heads
the Americas division, said on Dec. 5 that 2011 sales were
“obviously much more than we had expected” and MetLife would
“take the steps necessary to get that back into its proper risk
profile.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Ludtke in New York at 
 aludtke@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  