-- Vestjysk Drops as State Stake Exceeds 50%: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2012-02-16T09:27:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/vestjysk-drops-as-state-stake-exceeds-50-copenhagen-mover.html
Vestjysk Bank A/S (VJBA) , the lender which
is converting a government hybrid into shares, fell to the
lowest price in three weeks in Copenhagen trading after the
state received a higher stake than Nordea Bank AB had estimated.  Vestjysk fell as much as 8.3 percent to 21 kroner, the
lowest since Jan. 27. The stock traded at that price at 9:51
a.m. in the Danish capital. The Lemvig, Denmark-based lender
lost 73 percent of its market value last year, when it was told
by the Danish regulator to double writedowns on bad loans.  Vestjysk bank said late yesterday the government and the
state’s bank resolution unit will take a combined 55.4 percent
stake after independent auditors valued the lender’s share price
at 20.9 kroner for the conversion of the 297 million-krone
($51.9 million) of hybrid securities. Simon Christensen, an
analyst Nordea, said today the auditors’ price was lower than he
had expected and that he will cut his 12-month price estimate by
25 percent to 18 kroner.  “A higher price would, of course, have reduced the
ownership stake of the state and, depending on which date or
period chosen, that stake could have been below a majority,”
Copenhagen-based Christensen said today in a note to clients,
repeating his “sell”  recommendation  on Vestjysk.  Vestjysk said Jan. 25 it will merge with  Aarhus Lokalbank
A/S (AARHUS) , allowing the two to extend state guarantees on their debt.  Danish banks, which have to refinance a total of about $30
billion in state-guaranteed debt through 2013, faced a funding
squeeze after two failures last year led to senior creditor
losses. Denmark this month amended its consolidation law to
broaden access to state subsidies in the event of mergers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  