-- Volcker Rule May Harm EU Banks, Barnier Warns Bernanke, Geithner
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-02-16T09:48:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/volcker-rule-may-harm-eu-banks-barnier-warns-bernanke-geithner.html
The European Union’s financial-
services chief criticized parts of the U.S.’s proposed Volcker
rule, warning that it would place a “disproportionate” burden
on EU lenders and risk damaging markets.  Michel Barnier  wrote to U.S. regulators including Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  and Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  complaining that the measure as drafted would also
hamper governments’ ability to sell sovereign debt, according to
a copy of his letter obtained by Bloomberg News.  The measure may have “a number of unintended, non-
justifiable consequences for non-U.S. banks, markets and
institutions,” Barnier, the European commissioner responsible
for drafting financial-services legislation, said in the letter
dated Feb. 8.  The rule, named for former Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker , who
championed it as an adviser to President  Barack Obama , would
seek to ban banks from proprietary trading while allowing them
to continue short-term trades for hedging or market-making. It
also would limit banks’ investments in private-equity and hedge
funds.  The U.S. proposal is one of the most contentious provisions
of the Dodd-Frank Act, the regulatory overhaul enacted in 2010.
A 298-page proposal released by U.S. regulators in October
included more than 1,300 questions for affected banks to
consider during the comment period, which closed this week.  The draft has also been criticized by U.S. lenders
including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co . and
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , alongside foreign banks and governments,
who warn that it would increase risk, raise costs for investors
and be vulnerable to legal challenge.  Banks Confused  Barnier’s concerns include that the rule doesn’t clearly
define which activities will be banned, leaving banks confused
as to what kinds of market-making will be allowed.  “There is a real risk that banks impacted by the rule
would also significantly reduce their market-making activities,
reducing liquidity in many markets both within and outside the
 United States ,” Barnier said in the letter.  The measure would have “implications that are
disproportionate in light of the objective that the rule is
trying to achieve,” he said, including by placing “burdensome
reporting and compliance requirements” on EU lenders.  Barnier has said he will raise the Volcker rule when he
travels to the U.S. for meetings with regulators on Feb. 23-24.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ; 