-- VW May Join Peugeot in Tapping European Central Bank’s Bank-Rescue Cash
-- B y   B e n   M a r t i n   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2012-02-16T14:06:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/volkswagen-may-join-peugeot-in-tapping-ecb-s-bank-rescue-cash.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and  PSA Peugeot
Citroen (UG)  are among carmakers lining up to tap the cheap European
Central Bank loans that are keeping the finance industry afloat.  Renault SA (RNO)  said it may also borrow from the ECB’s longer-
term refinancing operation, which is open to financing units of
 Europe ’s biggest auto companies because they have banking
licenses. A total of 523 lenders borrowed 489 billion euros
($636 billion) of 1 percent three-year loans under the central
bank program in December.  Volkswagen Bank GmbH is considering accessing the LTRO,
Stefan Rolf, the head of securitization, said in an interview
today. Peugeot’s Banque PSA Finance unit is in talks with the
ECB about borrowing money and is offering more than 1 billion
euros of collateral, Chief Financial Officer Jean-Baptiste de Chatillon said yesterday. Renault Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said he’d consider any cash “which is cheap,” while
stressing the company didn’t need the money.  “The  auto industry  is a significant provider of credit to
the economy and the ECB is keen to get credit flowing where it
needs to flow,” said Huw Van Steenis, a bank analyst at Morgan
Stanley in London. “If giving loans to car makers helps that
process then the central bank may feel it’s a good use of the
money.”  Cheaper Cash  For those companies able to access it, the ECB’s LTRO
program is a cheaper source of cash than selling bonds.  Banque PSA’s last foray into the public debt markets was
when it raised 700 million euros from an offering of notes due
in July 2014, paying an interest coupon of 6 percent. Wolfsburg,
Germany-based VW’s last offering was 250 million euros of three-
year bonds sold on Feb. 2 with a 2.125 percent coupon, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. RCI Banque SA, a unit of Renault,
 France ’s second-biggest automaker, last sold bonds in January.  “The conditions of the LTRO are very attractive and it’s
our duty to carefully monitor our funding costs,” Volkswagen’s
Rolf said. The company may borrow from the central bank “despite
the fact that we have access to debt capital markets and
deposits from retail clients,” he said.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the largest maker of luxury
cars, has access to the ECB facility through its banking unit,
said spokeswoman Micaela Sandstede. She wouldn’t confirm whether
the Munich-based company would access the funds.  An easing of collateral requirements in the next round of
the ECB loan program later this month may help the carmakers’
financing units get the loans. An ECB spokesman declined to
comment.  “We will access any source of financing which is cheap,”
Renault’s Ghosn said in a Bloomberg Television interview today.
What funding the company chooses is down to “cost” and
“availability,” and “not because we’re desperately in need of
cash,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Martin in  London  at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  