-- Vontobel Slumps as It Cuts Dividend, Profit Drops: Zurich Mover
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-02-16T13:31:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/vontobel-slumps-as-it-cuts-dividend-profit-drops-zurich-mover.html
Vontobel Holding AG (VONN) , the Swiss bank
and brokerage that specializes in derivatives, fell the most in
more than three years in Zurich trading as profit declined and
it cut its dividend for the first time since 2009.  Net income dropped 23 percent to 113.7 million Swiss francs
($122.7 million) from 147.8 million francs a year earlier, the
Zurich-based firm said today. That missed the 130 million-franc
median  estimate  of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Vontobel, majority owned by a shareholder pool including
the founding family, generates revenue from investment banking,
asset management and private banking. The company expects
“volatile market conditions” to persist and plans to focus on
costs and adapting to changes in the Swiss  wealth management 
industry.  “The results demonstrate clearly how sensitive profits are
to market conditions which have remained difficult in the early
part of 2012,” said  Tim Dawson , a Geneva-based analyst with
Helvea. “The investment bank result is the main focus as it’s
the single biggest profit contributor.”  Vontobel  fell  as much as 8.5 percent in Zurich, the biggest
intraday drop since December 2008, and traded down 5.3 percent
at 25.75 francs as of 2:29 p.m. That pared the stock’s gain this
year to 23 percent. Vontobel proposed cutting its  dividend  to
1.10 francs per share from 1.40 francs in 2010.  Subdued Performance  “Profitability and operating efficiency were below
expectations,” said Chief Executive Officer Zeno Staub, adding
that the firm’s overall performance was “subdued.”  Pretax profit from  investment banking  fell 18 percent to
95.1 million francs while trading income declined by the same
amount to 225.3 million francs from a year earlier.  A decline in the value of “low quality” debt cut 24
million francs from investment bank earnings as the firm
accounted for price swings within its 8.8 billion-franc bond
portfolio. Vontobel has “very limited exposure” to peripheral
European  government bonds , including 400,000 francs of Greek
debt, the company said.  Staub expects loan assistance supplied by the  European
Central Bank  to lenders in the region to help avoid a “Lehman-
style event.”  “We’re not planning for a high-profile global financial
crisis in every half year,” he said. “But we’re not planning
for bull markets like in the nineties.”  Vontobel’s dividend reduction was a surprise, said Andreas Venditti, an analyst at Zuercher Kantonalbank AG in Zurich.  “I expected a flat dividend,” he said. “It sounds like
they want to buy something,” he said.  Margin Pressure  Julius Baer Group Ltd. and other Swiss banks are hoarding
capital to make acquisitions and boost assets as a stronger
franc and a global crackdown on  tax evasion  erode the
profitability of wealth management.  Pretax profit at Vontobel’s private bank fell 32 percent as
clients shunned riskier investments. Profitability will be
“tough to improve” if customers continue to hold about 25
percent of their money in cash, Staub said.  The unit’s gross margin, a measure of profitability,
declined to 82 basis points from 83 basis points as the firm
increased staffing by 15 percent, including 20 relationship
managers mainly focused on  Middle East  and eastern European
markets. A basis point is one hundredth of a percentage point.  Vontobel had full-year inflows of 8.2 billion francs,
mostly into its asset management unit, while private clients in
the Securities and Exchange Commission-registered U.S. business
also added funds.  That brought assets under management to 82.2 billion francs
at the end of December from 78.7 billion francs six months
earlier. The firm is aiming to reach 100 billion francs in
managed assets by 2014, Staub said in September.  Vontobel paid more in taxes as the firm’s effective rate
rose to 22.5 percent from 14.9 percent, according to its
 financial report .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  