-- WaMu Creditor Group to Switch Vote and Back Bankruptcy Plan, Lawyers Say
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-02-16T22:03:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/wamu-creditor-group-to-switch-vote-and-back-bankruptcy-plan-lawyers-say.html
Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ) , the former
owner of the biggest U.S. bank to fail, resolved a dispute that
had threatened to block common shareholders from getting stock
in the only part of the company to exit bankruptcy.  A group of creditors known as the TPS Consortium, who hold
securities that resemble preferred shares, agreed to switch
their vote on WaMu’s reorganization plan and support the $7
billion proposal, WaMu attorney  Brian Rosen  told  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court  Judge Mary Walrath in Wilmington, Delaware today.
Consortium attorney  Robert Stark  confirmed the deal.  In return for their support, the consortium members will
share stock in the reinsurance company that would exit
bankruptcy under the plan. The consortium and another group of
investors who hold the same securities will share $18 million
being provided by  JPMorgan Chase & Co.   “We have been able to reach an agreement with those
parties on the terms of a modification,” to the current
reorganization plan, Rosen said.  Third Attempt  The hearing today is WaMu’s third attempt to win court
approval for its reorganization plan, which would pay $7 billion
to creditors. That plan, which includes a settlement endorsed by
a committee of preferred and common shareholders, would give the
shares’ owners new stock in the only part of the company to
survive.  Because the consortium had voted no on the plan, common
shareholders could have lost their chance to get the stock. The
switch means the plan will propose a split of the new stock with
25 percent going to common shares and the rest to preferred
shares. The consortium members hold securities that Walrath
ruled should be considered preferred shares.  WaMu, based in Seattle, filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 26,
2008, the day after its banking unit was taken over by
regulators and sold to JPMorgan for $1.9 billion. Washington
Mutual Bank had more than 2,200 branches and $188 billion in
deposits.  The hearing is set to continue tomorrow when WaMu will
respond to the remaining objections to the plan.  The bankruptcy case is In re  Washington Mutual Inc. (WM) , 08-
12229, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 