-- Western Areas Says Nickel Prices Are Rebounding on Steel Demand
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-02-16T06:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/western-areas-says-nickel-prices-are-rebounding-on-steel-demand.html
Western Areas NL (WSA) ,  Australia ’s
second-biggest nickel producer, said prices are rebounding and
will extend gains in the next three years, aided by Chinese
demand.  Nickel, used to harden steel, may climb to $10 a pound by
the end of the year as annual demand, led by  China , grows as
much as 6 percent, Dan Lougher, managing director at the Perth-
based company, said today in a phone interview. Prices may
exceed $12 a pound after 2013 as China’s production of lower-
quality nickel pig iron, estimated to account for 15 percent of
global demand, dwindles and Indonesia imposes an export ban on
unprocessed metal starting 2014, he said.  Nickel prices fell 24 percent to $18,710 a metric ton last
year, or $8.5 a pound, reflecting lower demand from stainless
steel consumers in  Europe . An increase in prices, which have
gained 6.5 percent this year, will mitigate rising production
costs at producers in Australia, Lougher said.  “We’re obviously very bullish looking at the price and
demand will be strong in China,” Lougher said. “Production of
nickel pig iron in China is actually going to be a problem at
some point with some of the producers being shut down.”  Melbourne-based  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the largest nickel
producer, this month cut the mining rate at Nickel West in
Western Australia by 30 percent, citing lower metal prices and a
rising Australian dollar that drove up costs.  Global supply will also be hit when  Indonesia  begins to
impose a regulation requiring mining companies to process metal
ores locally from 2014, Lougher said.  “Indonesia is a major supplier of raw material to the
nickel pig iron industry in China,” he said today. “Further
restriction of material sources for the nickel pig iron
producers is likely to even further hamper the expensive
economics of nickel pig iron.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  