-- Westpac Reports Lower First-Quarter Earnings as Lending Margins Squeezed
-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 2012-02-16T05:24:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/westpac-reports-lower-first-quarter-earnings-as-lending-margins-squeezed.html
Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , Australia’s
second-largest bank, reported first-quarter profit that was
lower than a year earlier as rising funding costs squeezed the
profitability of its lending. The shares fell.  Unaudited cash earnings in the three months ended Dec. 31
were A$1.5 billion ($1.6 billion), the Sydney-based bank said in
a statement. It posted cash earnings of A$1.55 billion a year
earlier. Today’s result missed the A$1.6 billion estimate of
 JPMorgan Chase & Co . analyst Scott Manning in a Jan. 30 note.  Chief Executive Officer Gail Kelly is battling the weakest
Australian demand for home loans since 1977 by trimming costs
and firing as many as 400 people. To offset funding costs driven
higher by Europe’s debt crisis, Kelly last week boosted the
bank’s mortgage rate by 10 basis points, a move independent of
the central bank, which kept borrowing costs unchanged.  “Things aren’t traveling all that well compared to the
other banks” Westpac competes against, said  Paul Xiradis , who
manages about $12 billion in assets as chief executive officer
of Ausbil  Dexia (DEXB)  Ltd. in Sydney. “We’ve seen costs coming out of
the other banks and no doubt Westpac is trying to catch up.”  Westpac  shares  dropped 3.5 percent to A$20.22 in Sydney
trading, the most since Nov. 7, extending the decline in the
past year to 17 percent. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index fell
1.7 percent.  ‘Challenging’ Environment  The fiscal first-quarter result reflected “the more
challenging operating environment,” which contributed to a
A$200 million drop in markets-related income, Kelly said in
today’s statement. This was partially offset by profit on asset
sales, Westpac said.  “In aggregate, these volatile items negatively impacted
operating income by around A$100 million,” the bank said in
today’s statement. Excluding these items, cash earnings for the
quarter would have been little changed over the average of the
fiscal third and fourth quarters, it said.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the nation’s largest bank,
said yesterday that profit in the six months ended Dec. 31
climbed 19 percent to A$3.62 billion from a year earlier, helped
by fewer soured loans. National Australia Bank Ltd. said Feb. 7
that its cash profit in the three months ended Dec. 31 rose 7.7
percent as it increased lending faster than rivals.  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  is due to
publish unaudited fiscal first-quarter earnings tomorrow.  Australian banks may eliminate 7,000 jobs in the next two
years, seeking to reduce labor costs that account for 58 percent
of expenses, UBS AG said last month. ANZ Bank said Feb. 13 that
it will eliminate about 1,000 positions by Sept. 30.  Job Cuts  Kelly reduced total Westpac staff numbers by 767 to 37,712
in the year ended Sept. 30, and has signaled that the figure
will be lower again in the current fiscal year.  The cost of implementing measures to reduce expenses,
including restructuring of the workforce, are still being
finalized and are “not expected to exceed A$200 million,” the
bank said in today’s statement.  “There is no doubt that we are dealing with a lower growth
environment,” Kelly told investors on a call today. “There
isn’t a revenue wave to ride.”  Australia ’s four-pillar banks, so named for a law that
prevents them from buying each other, are managing slower demand
for mortgages, which account for about 60 percent of all lending
in the nation. Borrowing slumped after the central bank boosted
 interest rates  seven times from October 2009 to November 2010.
Policy makers cut the key rate by a quarter percentage point in
November and December to 4.25 percent, an unexpectedly held the
rate unchanged at this month’s meeting.  Economy ‘Suffering’  “Revenue is a function of what’s happening in the economy
and the domestic economy is suffering because of the uncertainty
around the world and high dollar, and perhaps not getting too
much relief from the”  Reserve Bank  of Australia, Xiradis said.  Credit to home buyers rose 5.4 percent in December from a
year earlier, the smallest annual increase since 1977, when
central bank data begins. The gain is also a third of the
average monthly pace recorded in the decade to December 2009.  Westpac said today that lending grew 1 percent from Sept.
30 to Dec. 31, while expenses were 2 percent higher than the
average for the previous two quarters.  The global and Australian economies are in a “deleveraging
phase” and the slower growth trend is expected to continue,
Kelly said today.  The bank’s net interest margin, a measure of profitability
of its lending, narrowed from the average of the fiscal third
and fourth quarters by 10 basis points. The impairment charge
for bad debts was around A$300 million, “up modestly” from the
average of the previous two quarters, it said.  The bank said it has raised A$10 billion in term funding in
the fiscal year to date at an average duration of 4.4 years,
including its first-ever covered bond issues in the U.S.,  Europe 
and Australia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  