-- January Wholesale Prices in U.S. Rise 0.1%
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2012-02-16T14:44:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/wholesale-prices-in-u-s-climbed-less-than-forecast-in-january.html
Wholesale prices in the U.S. rose
less than forecast in January as food and energy costs dropped,
a sign inflation pressures may remain subdued.  The  producer price index  rose 0.1 percent following a 0.1
percent decrease the prior month, Labor Department figures
showed today in Washington. Economists projected a 0.4 percent
gain, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey. The  core measure  excluding volatile food and energy rose
0.4 percent, more than projected, led by a surge in drug prices.  At the start of a new year, companies may try to test the
economy’s ability to absorb price increases in order to recover
higher raw-material expenses. Nonetheless, slowing growth from
 Europe  to  Asia  signal commodity costs will probably stabilize,
while a U.S. unemployment rate exceeding 8 percent means
households will resist attempts to charge more for goods.  “It’s something that happens at the start of the year,
where price increases are passed through and tend to erode,”
said  Mark Vitner , a senior economist at  Wells Fargo Securities
LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina . “We’re in a relatively low-
inflation environment where commodity prices have come down
because the global economy is cooling.”  Other reports today showed that claims for jobless benefits
unexpectedly dropped last week to the lowest level in four
years, and builders broke ground on more homes than forecast in
January.  Fewer Claims  Applications (INJCJC)  for unemployment insurance payments decreased
13,000 in the week ended Feb. 11 to 348,000, less than the
lowest forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg and the
fewest since March 2008, a Labor Department report showed today.
The  median  survey estimate projected an increase to 365,000.  Housing starts rose 1.5 percent to a 699,000 annual rate
from December’s 689,000 pace that was stronger than previously
reported, Commerce Department figures showed. The median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey called for a rise to
675,000. Building permits, a proxy for future construction, also
climbed.  Stocks were little changed as the better news on the
economy helped overcome concern about a Greek debt default. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was at 1,343.4 at 9:36 a.m. in  New
York , up less than 0.1 percent.  The median estimate for producer prices was based on
forecasts from 75 economists. Projections ranged from a decline
of 0.3 percent to an increase of 0.8 percent.  Survey Results  Core wholesale prices were projected to rise 0.2 percent
following the prior month’s 0.3 percent gain, the Bloomberg
survey showed.  For the 12 months since January 2011, companies paid 4.1
percent more for goods, down from a 4.8 percent increase in the
year to December. The core index increased 3 percent over the
past year, the same as in the 12 months ended in December.  The cost of pharmaceutical preparations climbed 2 percent
last month, accounting for about 40 percent of the increase in
core producer prices, the report showed. A 0.9 percent increase
in light-truck prices and a 1.5 percent gain in household
appliances, the biggest jump since January 1981, accounted for
much of the rest.  Wholesale energy costs fell 0.5 percent in January on a
drop in residential natural gas and the biggest decrease in home
electric power since June 2004. Food prices decreased 0.3
percent , reflecting declining costs for dairy products, fruits
and vegetables.  Intermediate Goods  The cost of intermediate goods dropped 0.4 percent in
January, a second consecutive decrease. Crude prices rose 1.5
percent, reversing the 1.5 percent December decline.  “Inflation has been subdued in recent months, and longer-
term inflation expectations have remained stable,” the  Federal
Reserve  said Jan. 25. The monetary policy-making committee
“also anticipates that over coming quarters, inflation will run
at levels at or below those consistent with the committee’s dual
mandate” of fostering  price stability  and maximum employment.  Fed policy makers see inflation declining in 2012 to below
their 2 percent goal, with most expecting prices to rise 1.4
percent to 1.8 percent this year, according to forecasts
released Jan. 25.  Beacon Roofing Supply Inc. (BECN) , a Peabody, Massachusetts-based
roofing materials distributor, said efforts to raise prices to
recoup costs were limited for its complementary building
products unit, that covers materials like siding, windows and
water-proofing systems.  Need Demand  “They still need demand to increase to have some needed
price increases take hold,” Paul Isabella, chief executive
officer, said on an earnings conference call on Feb. 9.  Producer prices are one of three monthly inflation gauges
reported by the Labor Department. The  consumer price index , due
tomorrow, rose 0.3 percent in January after being little changed
the prior month, according to the median estimate in the
Bloomberg survey.  The cost of goods imported into the U.S. rose in January
for the second time in six months, reflecting higher costs for
automobiles and petroleum, Labor Department data showed Feb. 14.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  