-- Two Tricks to Raising Capital-Gains Taxes Fairly: Ray Madoff
-- B y   R a y   M a d o f f
-- 2012-02-16T00:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/two-tricks-to-raising-capital-gains-taxes-fairly-ray-madoff.html
From  Warren Buffett ’s  secretary  to
Mitt Romney’s tax  returns  to the general uprising against the  1
percent ,  tax reform  is on everybody’s radar. In the cross hairs
is the preferential treatment for capital gains.  Profits from investments are taxed at a maximum rate of 15
percent, which is less than half the 35 percent maximum tax rate
imposed on wages and other ordinary income. One can hardly open
a newspaper or click on a blog without seeing a call to
eliminate this special rate for capital gains to increase
fairness and raise federal revenue.  To achieve true fairness and generate increased revenue,
however, it is necessary to make two more changes -- to allow
 capital-gains  taxpayers to account for inflation and to close
the loophole that allows wealthy Americans to avoid capital-
gains taxes altogether by passing on assets at death.  Before elaborating, I’ll explain why it’s smart to
eliminate the preferential tax rate for capital gains.  First, the lower rates cost the government a significant
amount of revenue. In 2008, if capital gains had been taxed at
35 percent instead of 15 percent, the federal treasury would
have received an additional $100 billion. (Capital gains were
unusually low that year; in 2007, the increase would have been
closer to $200 billion.) In the next five years, the capital-
gains preference will cost the government more than $450
billion, according to estimates from Congress’s Joint Committee
on Taxation.  Benefit for Wealthy  Second, preferential treatment of capital gains
disproportionately benefits the wealthy. In the past 20 years,
more than 80 percent of capital gains have gone to the
wealthiest 5 percent of Americans, and half have gone to the
wealthiest 0.1 percent -- that is, the richest 1/10th of the 1
percenters. Most Americans who own stock don’t benefit from the
lower rate because they own their stock through  retirement
plans . When proceeds from these plans are distributed to the
taxpayer, they are subject to tax at ordinary income rates.  Finally, the special capital-gains rate makes it difficult
to simplify the tax code. Much of its complexity is due to the
myriad rules that are meant to ensure that income is properly
categorized as ordinary income or capital gains. Eliminate the
rate differential, and the tax code could become far less
complex.  It’s no wonder that people from across the political
spectrum -- from President  Ronald Reagan  to the Bipartisan
Policy Center to the liberal tax policy group Citizens for Tax
Justice -- have supported the idea of taxing capital gains and
ordinary income at the same rate. Nonetheless, to ensure that a
rate change would be fair and effective, two more changes are
needed.  First, the tax should be imposed only on real gains, and
not inflationary ones. One important justification for the lower
rate on capital gains has been that if property is held for a
long time or during a period of significant inflation, the gains
may be illusory. Consider the person who invested $100,000 in a
building in 1980 and sold it 30 years later for $250,000. Under
current rules that taxpayer would be subject to tax on $150,000.
Yet, because $100,000 in 1980 had about the same buying power as
$250,000 in 2010, the investment arguably produced no real
profit for the taxpayer. The lower tax rate on capital gains
mitigates this problem. The tool is too crude, though, to
provide true fairness, because the same advantage given to
property held for 18 years is given to property held for only 18
months.  Account for Inflation  A fairer system would impose regular tax rates, but allow
taxpayers to account for inflation when calculating gain. This
fix was proposed in the 1980s, but rejected at the time as being
too complicated for the average taxpayer. However, with the
advent of the Internet, it’s easy for anybody to calculate
inflation -- and therefore true gain -- with a few keystrokes.
(Try it for yourself using this  calculator  from the Bureau of
Labor Statistics.)  The second, and more important, needed change is to close
the “angel of death” loophole. Under current rules, capital-
gains taxes are imposed only when property is sold. This means
that in any given year, people can easily avoid capital-gains
taxes by holding on to their property. Moreover, if property is
held until death, then no capital-gains taxes are ever paid,
because the  tax code  treats heirs as if they had purchased the
inherited property for its fair market value. This loophole is
available even though heirs pay no income taxes on their
inheritance and regardless of whether any estate taxes are
imposed on the donor.  Thus, if a taxpayer invested $100,000 in Apple Inc. in 2006
and died in 2012 when the stock was worth $1 million, that
$900,000 profit is never subject to tax. The decedent is not
taxed because he didn’t sell the stock, and the heirs are not
taxed because they are treated as if they had purchased it for
$1 million.  Even at 15 percent capital-gains rates, this angel of death
loophole costs the federal government about $60 billion each
year. It also creates a powerful incentive for people to hold on
to their appreciated property until death. This so-called lock-
in effect impedes the efficient flow of capital.  A lower tax rate on capital gains presumably counters lock-
in by making it less onerous for taxpayers to sell. However, no
matter how low the tax rates are set, they can never compete
with a rate of zero. Nonetheless, increasing the rate on capital
gains would only increase the lock-in effect, and do little to
generate federal revenue.  The simple solution is to modify the tax code to require
that all capital gains and losses be realized on a decedent’s
final income tax return. In our example, this would mean that
the decedent’s profits from his investment in Apple (adjusted
for inflation) would be subject to tax at ordinary income rates.
This would not only ensure that profits are fairly taxed but
also free people to make their best investment decisions.  Meaningful reform of the capital-gains tax is a good idea.
Let’s make the change logical and effective as well.  (Ray Madoff, a professor at Boston College Law School, is
the author of “Immortality and the Law: The Rising Power of the
American Dead.” The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Ray Madoff at  Ray.Madoff@bc.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 