-- World Bank Warns Kenya Against Capping Commercial Bank Rates
-- B y   P a u l   R i c h a r d s o n
-- 2012-02-16T05:59:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/world-bank-warns-kenya-against-capping-commercial-bank-rates-1-.html
Plans by Kenyan lawmakers to impose
caps on commercial-bank  interest rates  risk curbing loans and
forcing lenders to pay less for deposits, and the country should
instead focus on boosting competition, the World Bank said.  Legislators in  East Africa ’s biggest economy have proposed
an amendment to a finance bill currently before parliament to
cap lending rates and set minimum deposit rates, while Finance
Minister Njeru Githae said on Feb. 14 commercial banks should
cut their lending costs. Lenders including Equity Bank Ltd. and
Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd. increased their loan rates last year,
some to as high as 25 percent, after the central bank increased
its benchmark rate to a record 18 percent to curb inflation.  Capping interest rates would lead to fewer loans, encourage
borrowing from informal lenders at higher rates and force banks
to pay less for deposits, possibly resulting in some of them
closing down, Johannes Zutt, the  World Bank ’s country manager in
Kenya, said in an opinion article published in the Daily Nation
newspaper today.  “The best way to lower the price of money is not a
distortive interest-rate cap, but open competition,” Zutt said.
“If members of parliament want to lower interest rates, they
should do everything in their power to increase competition.”  Competition could be improved by making it easier for banks
to obtain collateral and less costly to realize collateral when
borrowers default, Zutt said.  ‘Notoriously Unreliable’  “Particular attention should be paid to improving the  land
registry , which is notoriously unreliable,” he said.  Banks should also make their rates, fees and penalties more
transparent, allowing borrowers to make comparisons to ensure
they get the best deal, while the establishment of “effective”
credit-reference bureaux would enable lenders to have better
knowledge of their customers, he said. Increased competition
would also help the government sell its remaining interests in
some lenders in the country, Zutt said.  The progress made by  Kenya  in recent years in strengthening
its financial industry and improving stability may be threatened
if interest-rate caps are introduced, he said.  “It would be unfortunate for Kenyans if these great
achievements were now discarded through enacting a poorly
conceived and counter-productive interest-rate cap,” Zutt said.  Average  lending rates  in Kenya are currently 20.04 percent,
according to the central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  