-- Xi Visits Iowa for '80s Reunion Bearing China Gifts for Cargill
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-02-16T06:32:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/xi-visits-iowa-for-80s-reunion-with-china-gifts.html
Chinese Vice President  Xi Jinping 
reunited with a family in  Iowa  that hosted him 27 years ago as a
provincial agricultural official, this time bringing with him
company executives who signed deals to buy soybeans as demand
for U.S. grains surges in  Asia ’s biggest economy.  Xi, in line to begin taking over China’s top leadership
posts later this year, traveled yesterday to Muscatine, Iowa on
the Mississippi River for a reunion with Governor Terry Branstad
and the hosts from his 1985 trip when he came to see how to
improve crop and livestock production as a provincial
agricultural official.  Xi’s visit comes as U.S. agricultural exports to China are
booming, helping export growth outpace the percentage increase
in imports in 2011. The bilateral trade deficit, which reached
$295 billion dollars last year, has been a constant source of
friction between the world’s two biggest economies, with
President  Barack Obama  telling Xi in their Feb. 14 meeting that
the U.S. believes the yuan is undervalued.  “China has been a great trade partner and a key customer
of Iowa soybeans, and this agreement shows a commitment on both
sides to continuing that relationship,” Iowa Agriculture
Secretary Bill Northey said during the sales signing ceremony
yesterday. “Exports are vital to the economic health of our
state. China is a rapidly increasing portion of that total, and
it is important we continue to build on that strong
partnership.”  ‘The Godfather’  Companies including Cargill Inc. and the Archer-Daniels-
Midland Co. signed contracts yesterday to export $4.3 billion of
soybeans to China. As of Feb. 2, U.S. shipments to  China  of
grains, including corn, wheat barley, sorghum and soybeans,
surged 78 percent to 695 million bushels from a year earlier,
according to the Department of Agriculture. Iowa is the biggest
U.S. producer of corn, soybeans, hogs and eggs.  In Muscatine, Xi visited the Victorian-style home of Sarah
Lande, who held a dinner for him in 1985. He told the
townspeople and officials gathered in the parlor about his first
visit and how surprised they had been to hear that he watched
American movies such as “The Godfather.”  “It’s my second visit to Muscatine after a hiatus of 27
years, and all the memories of my being here are now coming
back,” he said. “Coming here is really like coming back
home.”  Yesterday evening Branstad, then as now Iowa’s governor,
toasted Xi at a dinner in  Des Moines , saying “Iowa farmers are
proud to harvest safe and reliable agricultural products for use
by the people of China.”  Five Complaints  Earlier in the day, Xi spoke to business executives in
Washington, including Coca-Cola Co. Chief Executive Officer
Muhtar Kent, in an event co-hosted by the U.S.-China Business
Council. In his speech, Xi said China’s  trade surplus  with the
world was declining as a percentage of its economy and is now in
a “normal range.”  “It is very important that the U.S. adjust its economic
and policy structure,” he said, urging the U.S. to ease
restrictions on technology exports to China.  Obama has filed five World Trade Organization complaints
against China since taking office three years ago. The two
countries have clashed over access to each others’ markets for
products including steel pipes, poultry, beef, tires and music.  Before heading to Iowa, Xi met with members of Congress in
Washington, including sessions with Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, and his Republican counterpart  Mitch
McConnell  of  Kentucky . He also met with House Speaker  John
Boehner , an Ohio Republican, and House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of  Virginia , who raised questions on human rights and
religious freedom, and criticized China over intellectual
property violations.  Human Rights  At the meeting with Boehner and Cantor, the U.S. side
delivered a letter about the plight of Gao Zhisheng, a human
rights lawyer imprisoned in China, according to a summary of the
meeting released by the speaker’s office. Boehner told Xi that
China’s enforcement of intellectual property laws was deficient,
and Cantor expressed disappointment over China’s veto last week
of a United Nations Security Council resolution on  Syria ,
according to the summary.  Bian Zhenhu, president of the  China Chamber of Commerce of
Foodstuffs and Native Produce , said during yesterday’s soybean
sales signing that improved relations between the world’s two
top economies was key in promoting more bilateral trade.  “I personally wish there was more common ground and mutual
respect for the trading relationship,” he said.  LA Lakers  China launched a trade promotion effort during Xi’s visit
that will include a drive to purchase $27 billion in U.S.
products including farm goods, machinery and electronic
materials, Vice Commerce Minister Gao Hucheng said Feb. 14 in
 Washington .  Chinese and U.S. officials, along with business executives
will attend a USDA-sponsored symposium today in Des Moines aimed
at strengthening trade relations, improving  food security  and
enhancing the role of private business in agricultural
development.  Later in the day, Xi flies to  Los Angeles  for the last leg
of his visit, where additional soybean deals may be announced.
He is scheduled to tour the city’s port with California Governor
 Jerry Brown  and attend a banquet in his honor. Tomorrow, his
last day in the U.S., he will speak at a business conference,
tour a school and attend a Los Angeles Lakers basketball game
with Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  