-- Yelp Seeks to Raise Up to $100 Million in Initial Offering
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-02-17T23:35:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/yelp-seeks-to-raise-as-much-as-100-million-in-ipo-of-user-review-website.html
Yelp Inc. (YELP) , the user-generated review
website, plans to raise as much as $100 million in what may be
the first initial public offering from a major  Internet company 
this year.  Yelp, based in San Francisco, said in a regulatory filing
yesterday it will offer 7.15 million shares for $12 to $14 each.
The pricing is scheduled for March 1, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg, and the stock will trade on the New York Stock
Exchange under the ticker YELP.  The IPO will probably come ahead of Facebook Inc., the
biggest social-networking website, which filed to raise $5
billion on Feb. 1, without setting terms. At the midpoint of the
 price range , Yelp’s offering would value the company at about
$778 million, or about 9.3 times last year’s sales. That
compares with 5.2 times for  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and about 3.8 times for
 Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , which Yelp lists as competitors in its prospectus.  “The initial valuation seems high relative to their
peers,” said  Jack Ablin , who oversees $55 billion as chief
investment officer at Harris Private Bank in  Chicago . “I’m not
sure where their huge growth catalyst is going to come from.”  Yelp first filed for its offering in November and is part
of a resurgence in Internet offerings, including stock-market
debuts last year by  Groupon Inc. (GRPN) ,  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  and  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) 
Yelp’s net loss last year widened to $16.7 million from $9.6
million in 2010, as marketing and product-development spending
both increased more than 50 percent. Revenue rose 74 percent to
$83.3 million.  25 Million Reviews  About 66 million unique visitors looked at Yelp on a
monthly average basis for the quarter that ended Dec. 31,
according to the filing. Yelp said it has about 25 million total
reviews of local businesses such as dentists, mechanics and
salons.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Citigroup Inc. and Jefferies &
Co. are leading the deal. Allen & Co. and Oppenheimer & Co. are
also working on the IPO. Bessemer Venture Partners is the
biggest stakeholder in Yelp, owning 22.1 percent, followed by
Elevation Partners with 22 percent and Benchmark Capital at 15.9
percent.  Max Levchin, Yelp’s chairman, owns 13.5 percent of the
company, while founder and Chief Executive Officer Jeremy Stoppelman owns 11.1 percent.  The company is selling 7.1 million shares in the IPO, and
Yelp Foundation is planning to sell 50,000 shares, the filing
shows. Yelp will use the proceeds for general corporate purposes
including marketing and capital expenses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  