-- Zurich Financial Profit Drops 46% on Thai Floods, Tax Rate
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2012-02-16T09:08:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/zurich-q4-profit-drops-45-on-thai-floods.html
Zurich Financial Services AG (ZURN) ,
 Switzerland ’s largest insurer, said fourth-quarter profit
declined 46 percent after losses from Thai floods and other
natural catastrophes.  Net income  fell to $557 million from $1.04 billion a year
earlier, the Zurich-based company said today in an e-mailed
statement. This missed the $729.1 million average estimate of 11
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The company booked insured losses after reinsurance of $225
million in the quarter, said Chief Financial Officer Pierre Wauthier, adding that earnings were also crimped by a higher  tax
rate  and a donation to charity. Zurich Financial said it will
keep its dividend unchanged after increasing its 2010 payout to
an 11-year high of 17 Swiss francs ($18.53) per share.  “Once again they are going to pay a really high
dividend,” said Martin Schwab, a Zurich-based analyst with Bank
Sarasin & Cie. AG. “The results were slightly below consensus
generally, so at least it is a good thing they will keep the
dividend at 17 francs.”  The shares fell as much as 2.4 percent in Zurich trading
and were down 1.8 percent to 228.9 francs as of 10:05 a.m. That
pared the stock’s gain this year to 7.8 percent.  Full-year profit rose 10 percent to $3.77 billion after the
firm’s net investment result contributed $9.4 billion to total
revenue, Zurich Financial said.  ‘Devastating Earthquakes’  “We delivered a good result in a year characterized by
natural catastrophes, including devastating earthquakes in  Japan 
and  New Zealand  as well as exceptional weather-related losses
around the globe,” Chief Executive Officer Martin Senn said in
the statement.  The company booked insured losses of $1 billion after
reinsurance last year following the floods in  Thailand  and the
earthquake in New Zealand, compared with major catastrophe
losses of $275 million in 2010.  Market declines, flood losses, a higher tax rate and a
“charitable contribution” of about $100 million to the
insurer’s Z Zurich Foundation cut profit in the fourth quarter,
Wauthier said.  The insurer’s combined ratio, which measures claims and
costs as a percentage of premiums, worsened to 98.93 percent in
the quarter from 98.56 percent, following the catastrophe losses.
A ratio below 100 percent means underwriting is profitable.  Zurich Financial, Swiss Life Holding AG and other insurers
may post slower premium growth this year as the economy
deteriorates, according to the Swiss Insurance Association, an
industry lobby group.  Missing Target  Business operating profit after-tax return on equity
dropped to 10.2 percent in 2011, missing its target of 16
percent over the long term. Senn said on Dec. 1 that Zurich
Financial may miss its target if the “current economic outlook
persists.”  The company estimates its solvency ratio under a Swiss test
was about 190 percent at the end of last year compared with more
than 200 percent three months earlier. The ratio was hurt when
Zurich Financial increased its equity holdings to 3.2 percent of
total investments from 2.7 percent, according to Wauthier.  Chief Investment Officer Cecilia Reyes said on Jan. 26 that
income from bond investments will stay “low for years to come”
as central banks keep borrowing costs near zero, adding that it
will be a “challenge” to meet investment-income targets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  