-- Zynga Plans Promotions to Curb Facebook Need
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-02-16T21:49:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-16/zynga-plans-game-promotions-to-curb-facebook-need.html
Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , the online game site
that sold shares to the public in December, plans to unveil a
set of services designed to promote other developers and lessen
its dependence on  Facebook Inc . (FB), two people with knowledge of
the matter said.  Through the publishing program, due to begin in March,
other game developers will be able to advertise their wares in
Zynga games and on a separate Web portal, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the plan has not been made
public. Zynga will keep a portion of the sales generated from
the games, the people said.  Zynga, the biggest developer of games played on  Facebook ,
is seeking new sources of revenue after raising $1 billion in
its initial public offering. By selling services to other
developers, it may reduce its reliance on Facebook, which
accounts for more than 90 percent of sales and takes a 30
percent cut of virtual goods sold in Zynga games.  Dani Dudeck, a spokeswoman for Zynga, said the company
doesn’t comment on rumors or speculation.  Promoting apps made by other developers is likely to carry
fewer risks than Zynga’s main business of developing games. The
company’s profitability has been crimped as it spends more to
create new blockbuster titles.  The plan for a new publishing platform in March is
contingent upon talks with partners as well as internal
development, the people said. The release could come later, they
said.  Electronic Arts (EA) ’ Footsteps  By becoming a publisher, Zynga emulates traditional console
game companies such as  Electronic Arts Inc (EA) ., which distribute
and promote games made by independent design studios in exchange
for a cut of sales.  Joining Zynga’s network will not exempt developers from
giving Facebook a cut of sales, a person with knowledge of the
revenue agreement said. Because Facebook Credits are used by all
developers selling virtual goods on the social network and games
promoted by Zynga, participating developers will still pay
Facebook a cut of sales, the person said.  Zynga, with more than 246 million users, operates six of
the seven most popular games played on Facebook, according to
website AppData.  “Hidden Chronicles,” released last month, has become
Zynga’s third most popular game, with 30.7 million monthly
users, according to  research firm AppData . It ranks behind two
more established games, “CityVille” and “Texas HoldEm
Poker.”  During an event at the company’s San Francisco headquarters
in October, Zynga debuted a new service, called Project Z,
geared towards reducing its dependence on Facebook.  Project Z would be part of a larger corporate strategy,
dubbed Zynga Direct, that is aimed at building “a direct
relationship with consumers whether they are on the Web or
mobile,” Chief Executive Officer  Mark Pincus  said at the event.  Earlier this week, Zynga’s shares had their biggest one-day
drop since their Dec. 16 debut after an earnings report showed
product-development costs are cutting into profitability.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas Macmillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net 
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 Asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  