-- ‘Diversity’ Isn’t Why Colleges Need Affirmative Action
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2012-08-26T22:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/-diversity-isn-t-colleges-need-affirmative-action.html
Just when you thought the U.S.
 Supreme Court  was a distant memory of spring, the briefs are in
for the blockbuster  affirmative action case  coming in October
involving a student claiming she was denied admission to the
 University of Texas  because she is white.  And, if the friend of the court submissions from the
 government  and a collection of  fancy universities  are any
indication, this new drama will be played as “Hamlet” without
the prince.  Nobody is prepared to tell the court the real reason we
still need affirmative action: It would be shameful madness to
recruit and train an elite that included only a handful of
blacks and Latinos. Instead, the core argument for retaining
some element of affirmative action in admissions is
“diversity.”  Wait, you say, isn’t diversity precisely what it would mean
to have a widely representative student body? The answer is no,
because of the rationale offered for it.  The Obama administration and the universities claim that
diversity is beneficial because it enhances the educational
experience in the classroom for all the students, not that it
serves a vital political function.  The idea is that pedagogy will gain immeasurably and
incalculably (double meanings intended) from the expression of
different perspectives. The experience of an elite higher
education cannot be at its best, they assert, if the distinctive
experiences of members of all groups are not represented.  Court Precedent  The friends of the court can hardly be blamed for adopting
the educational diversity rationale. It is, after all, the law
of the land, expressed by Justice Sandra Day O’Connor in the
2003  Grutter v. Bollinger case  and rather hopefully couched in
the prediction/promise that it would last just another 25 years.
Indeed, a coalition of universities -- led by  Harvard University 
-- is the appropriate group to advance the diversity argument,
as its origins lie in Justice Lewis Powell’s 1978 decision in
 Regents of the University of California v. Bakke .  Powell, a courtly Virginian and Harvard Law School
graduate, essentially adopted the argument from a brief filed by
Harvard saying it favored diversity in admissions to improve the
overall educational experience. It went unmentioned by both
Powell and Harvard that geographical diversity had initially
been adopted to reduce the number of Jewish students who were
being admitted by examination from the so-called “doughnut”
around major urban centers. (One dissenting faculty member asked
if the doughnut wasn’t really a bagel.)  In addition to precedent, the diversity case for admission
policies has the virtue of not acknowledging the original
rationale for affirmative action: restorative justice for blacks
and Latinos, who as recently as the 1950s were legally barred
from many universities. In a world where  Barack Obama  is U.S.
president, it is easy to believe that educational racism is
history -- or that past efforts to fix it have somehow
succeeded.  Yet the Obama era can also point us to the true societal
reason we still need affirmative action: We are a country run in
no small part, though not exclusively, by a meritocratic elite.  The universities are important filters shaping that elite.
Their idea of merit relies heavily, though not exclusively, on
grades and standardized tests. (Don’t get me started on legacy
admissions or lacrosse players.) Yet if these yardsticks were
the whole ball of wax, there wouldn’t be enough blacks and
Latinos to populate that elite in any vaguely appropriate
proportion to the population.  Social Necessity  What would be so bad about that? A modern-day Tocqueville
visiting from, say,  China , would immediately see the problem of
legitimacy. If some 30 percent of Americans were seriously
underrepresented in the upper echelons of society, what would
that make of our claim to be the land of opportunity -- or of
equal justice under law? A more cynical observer might add that
it is extremely difficult to run a country, democracy or no, if
a third of the citizens feel excluded from governance. Seen from
this perspective, affirmative action is a social necessity.  Then there is the unpopular issue of injustice. Even if we
could be governed by an elite that didn’t look like America,
would it be right? Meritocracy fits poorly with democracy if the
meritocrats aren’t representative. The problem isn’t that
unrepresentative universities wouldn’t be democratic. It’s that
governance by the elites they produce would be.  The crucial question for the Supreme Court, then, is
whether it is prepared to be the agent of a formal equality that
would seriously disrupt the way a diverse meritocratic elite is
now chosen. The deans of Harvard and Yale law schools hint at
this point in their own  two-person brief  when they point out
that every sitting justice went to one of their schools. In an
earlier era, such a lack of educational diversity would have
been considered outrageous. Today, we rely on the educational
institutions to do the diverse elite selection for us -- so that
today’s court includes Justices  Clarence Thomas  and  Sonia Sotomayor , two Yale Law School-educated nonwhites.  Five justices may decide they don’t mind overturning our
entire meritocratic system. If they do, our elite-producing
institutions will face a crisis. Either they will have to find
new ways of creating social diversity, or we will have to stop
using them to make the meritocrats who govern us.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at Harvard University and
the author of “Scorpions: The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s
Great Supreme Court Justices,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why  Republicans should quit
talking  about a moocher class and on the abuse of  drug users in
China and Southeast Asia ; William D. Cohan on former executives
 wanting higher taxes ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  Mitt Romney and the
movement conservatives ;  Stephen Smith  on the exorbitant costs of
 U.S. mass transit projects .  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman at  noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 