-- ‘The Expendables 2’ Is Top Film With Sales of $13.4 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-08-27T21:31:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/-the-expendables-2-remains-top-film-with-sales-of-13-5-million.html
“The Expendables 2,”  Sylvester Stallone ’s R-rated action sequel, led U.S. and Canadian ticket
sales for a second weekend with sales of $13.4 million,
outperforming three other new films.  “2016: Obama’s America,” a critical look at President
 Barack Obama ’s view of America’s role in the world, was seventh
with $6.5 million in sales after expanding to 1,091 theaters,
researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in an e-mailed
statement. The film became the top performing political
documentary of the year, according to Box Office Mojo. “The
Bourne Legacy” was second with sales of $9.3 million,  “The Expendables 2” prevailed during the typically slow
late-summer period, when consumers are more focused on travel
and outdoor activities. The film, a followup to the 2010 hit,
has taken in $52.2 million for  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) 
since it opened on Aug. 17.  “This is an extra-slow August because we don’t have
something like ‘The Help’ or ‘Rise of the Planet of the Apes’
that’s doing unexpectedly strong business,” said  Paul Dergarabedian , president of Hollywood.com Box-Office, in an
interview before the results were announced.  A year ago, “The Help,” the surprise hit about black
women working in the homes of whites in the segregated South,
generated $102.6 million during August and went on to take in
$169.7 million in the U.S. and  Canada , according to Box Office
Mojo, a film researcher. “Rise of the Planet of the Apes”
collected $151.5 in sales during the month.  All-Star Cast  In “The Expendables 2,” Stallone and his team of
mercenaries are enlisted by Mr. Church, a CIA agent played by
Bruce Willis, for a seemingly simple job. One member is
murdered, and the group’s quest for revenge puts them in enemy
territory against an unexpected threat. The film cost about $100
million to make and was expected to take in $12.2 million this
past weekend, according to Box Office Mojo.  The picture features an all-star list of action heroes
including  Arnold Schwarzenegger ,  Bruce Willis  and Chuck Norris.
The first installment, made for about $80 million, generated
$274.5 million in worldwide sales, according to the researcher.  The reboot of the “Bourne” action-film series from
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  Universal Pictures  has taken in $85.5 million
since it opened on Aug. 10. The film, the fourth in the Bourne
saga, begins a new storyline without the namesake character of
the first three films or actor  Matt Damon . Oscar nominee  Jeremy Renner  stars as super soldier Aaron Cross.  Finishing third was “ParaNorman,” a 3-D animated
children’s film from Laika Entertainment and Universal’s Focus
Features. It had sales of $8.6 million in its second weekend.  ‘The Campaign’  The PG-rated comedy-thriller follows a misunderstood boy
who can speak to the dead. Norman takes on ghosts, zombies and
grown-ups to save his town from a centuries-old curse. Kodi
Smit-McPhee provides the voice of Norman. Anna Kendrick and
Christopher Mintz-Plasse co-star.  “The Campaign,” an R-rated election comedy from  Time
Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros., placed fourth with $7.4 million in
receipts.  Will Ferrell  and Zach Galifianakis star.  Jason
Sudeikis  and Dylan McDermott co-star.  “The Dark Knight Rises,” the final film in the Warner
Bros. Batman trilogy, was fifth with $7.2 million in receipts,
while Disney’s “The Odd Life of Timothy Green,” trailed in
sixth place with $7.1 million.  The feature-length Obama documentary, co-directed and
narrated by political commentator Dinesh D’Souza, expanded to
1,091 theaters from 169 last weekend, ahead of the opening of
the  Republican National Convention  in Tampa,  Florida .  Screen Averages  The movie had the highest per-theater average of any with
sales of $5,966 from each location and reached $9.3 million in
total revenue. It will add another 500 screens or so this week.  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s “Premium Rush,” one of three new films over
the weekend, was eighth with sales of $6.0 million. The movie
stars Joseph Gordon-Levitt as a New York bicycle messenger whose
rides through Manhattan traffic become more harrowing when a
corrupt police officer tries to stop him from delivering an
envelope.  The romantic comedy “Hope Springs,” from Sony, was ninth
with sales of $5.7 million.  The weekend’s other debut films, “Hit & Run,” from Open
Road Films, and  Warner Bros .’s “The Apparition,” finished 10th
and 12th, respectively. “Hit & Run” had sales of $4.5 million,
and “Apparition” had sales of $2.8 million.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 11 percent to
$82.8 million from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com said.
Domestic film sales this year have risen 4.2 percent to $7.43
billion, with attendance up 3.1 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales from
Aug. 24 through yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net 
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  