-- America Ascends in Biggest Stocks
-- B y   L u   W a n g   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-08-27T20:35:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/america-ascends-in-biggest-stocks-as-apple-google-oust-gazprom.html
American stocks  are dominating
global equities by the most in a decade, taking a majority of
the spots in a ranking of the 20 biggest companies, after
earnings rose faster than the rest of the world as the global
economy rebounded.  Apple (AAPL)  Inc.,  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ,  Wells
Fargo (WFC)  & Co. and four more U.S. companies joined the top 20 since
 stocks peaked  in 2007, bringing the total to 14, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. They replaced Moscow-based  Gazprom
OAO (GAZP) ,  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028)  in Beijing,  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  of Rio de Janeiro and six others from Europe and
Asia. Of the nine added, only  BHP Billiton (BHP)  Ltd. and  Nestle SA (NESN) 
are based outside the U.S.  More U.S. corporations are represented than any time since
2003 after 10 quarters of economic expansion and  profit growth 
lifted the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index 109 percent since shares
bottomed in March 2009. The shift reflects volatility in
 emerging markets  and shows how innovation builds value in the
U.S.  “The U.S. is just the best place on the planet to have a
great idea and turn it into a big business,” according to
 Michael Shaoul , chairman of New York-based Marketfield Asset
Management, which oversees $2.7 billion.  “There’s another reason for this list to have shifted and
that is the falling of prior darlings,” said Shaoul, whose fund
beat 99 percent of competitors in the past year. “A lot of the
ones which have fallen are energy and emerging-market related.”  Relative Strength  American companies are gaining strength in part because of
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis. While the S&P 500 fell 0.5
percent last week, retreating from a four-year high, amid
concern European leaders will fail to preserve the 17-nation
currency union, the Euro Stoxx 50 Index slid 1.5 percent. The
S&P 500 fell less than 0.1 percent to 1,410.44 at 4 p.m. in New
York today.  Computer and software makers became the  top industry  in the
S&P 500, overtaking financial companies, as Apple and IBM joined
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Microsoft (MSFT)  Corp. among the biggest stocks. The
last time a non-U.S. technology producer made the global ranking
was in 2001, when Espoo, Finland-based Nokia Oyj was the world’s
largest mobile-phone maker. Nokia’s market value has fallen by
92 percent since Apple introduced the iPhone in 2007.  The Cupertino, California-based maker of iPad computers
last week became the most valuable U.S. company ever as the
stock rose to $668.87 on Aug. 22, giving the company a value of
$627 billion. Apple, which approached bankruptcy in 1997, has
jumped more than 80-fold in the past decade.  IBM, Microsoft  IBM’s market value more than doubled over the decade as the
company shifted its strategy toward more-profitable software
sales and away from hardware and consulting. The Armonk, New
York-based company, with a market capitalization of $226
billion, closed the gap with Microsoft, valued at $256.2
billion, to become the No. 3 technology maker and the world’s
seventh-biggest company.  Microsoft, based in Redmond, Washington, was worth four
times as much as IBM in 1999. Mountain View, California-based
Google, owner of the world’s most popular search engine, is
valued at $222.6 billion.  “There are not a lot of other companies that can compete
with the Googles and the Apples of the world,”  Jeffrey Saut ,
chief investment strategist at Raymond James & Associates in  St.
Petersburg , Florida, said in an Aug. 23 phone interview. His
firm oversees $350 billion. “We have probably the most cutting-
edge companies in the technology space that exist today. Who can
match Apple? I can’t think of anybody.”  Computer and software makers represent 20 percent of the
S&P 500. The industry’s weighting outside the U.S. is  4 percent ,
as measured by the MSCI World ex-U.S. Index.  German GDP  Profit growth drove the U.S. gains. The 14 biggest U.S.
companies earned $248.4 billion in the last 12 months, more than
double the total made by the 67 companies in Brazil’s  Bovespa
Index. (IBOV)  Their market value reached $3.57 trillion, about the size
of Germany’s 2011 gross domestic product.  Earnings at the seven newly added American companies surged
40 percent during the past four years, while income for the 13
non-U.S. firms that made the 2007 list rose 6 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The ranking reflects the U.S. economy, where growth climbed
back toward pre-2008 levels faster than other countries. Gross
domestic product is forecast to gain 2.2 percent this year,
according to the median estimate of 78 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. That compares with an average of 2.6 percent between
2002 and 2007, before the credit crisis, the data show.  Global Recession   China is projected to expand by 8.1 percent, compared with
its mean rate of 11.2 percent before the global recession.
Brazil’s GDP may increase 1.9 percent, down from an average of
3.8 percent. Russia may grow by 3.8 percent, next to 7.1 percent
in the five years before the credit crisis.  “People perceive not only better growth for the U.S., but
also less risk,” Chris Leavy, the chief investment officer of
fundamental equities at New York-based BlackRock Inc., which
oversees $3.56 trillion as the world’s biggest money manager,
said in an Aug. 22 interview.  Investors are  demanding more  profit to reward companies
with higher stock prices than before the credit crisis shattered
confidence in equities. The average capitalization of the
largest 20 companies shrunk 17 percent to $242.5 billion since
2007 even as profits surged almost fourfold to $18.8 billion,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Commodities, China  The biggest companies, dominated in 2007 by commodity
explorers and enterprises controlled by China’s government,
traded at an average price-earnings ratio of 57.6, the data
show. Today, after the addition of two American technology
developers and a California bank, the average valuation is 12.9,
according to the data.  “It’s so commonplace in this country to vilify
corporations, but the truth is the American corporate structure
has worked very well,”  David Kelly , chief market strategist at
JPMorgan Funds in New York, said in an Aug. 22 phone interview.
His firm oversees about $348 billion. “There are other
countries which are doing very well economically, but don’t do
as good a job as inventing and reinventing themselves.”  The S&P 500 trailed the rest of the world in the previous
bull market as accelerating growth in China boosted demand for
commodities from Brazil to Russia. The index rose 99 percent
during the five-year rally that ended in October 2007, lagging
behind a 187 percent gain by the  MSCI World ex-U.S. Index  and a
416 percent surge in an MSCI gauge tracking 21 emerging markets.  PetroChina, Exxon  PetroChina Co. (857)  surpassed  Exxon (XOM)  Mobil Corp. to become the
world’s biggest company after shares of the Beijing-based oil
producer almost tripled on the first day of Shanghai trading on
Nov. 5, 2007. The same year, Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd. overtook Citigroup Inc. as the world’s largest bank
while Gazprom and Petrobras eclipsed  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  and
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)   The number of Chinese companies has since fallen to three
from six while those from Brazil, Russia, U.K. and France have
disappeared from the top 20 amid the weakest Chinese growth
since 2009 and an economic contraction in Europe.  PetroChina, which became the world’s first $1 trillion
company five years ago, has dropped to No. 4 with a market
capitalization of $251.7 billion. Irving, Texas-based Exxon, the
second-biggest company, is valued at $406.4 billion.  While America’s expansion is “impressive,” companies need
to boost sales rather than counting on cost cuts to increase
profits, according to  Mike Ryan , the New York-based chief
investment strategist at UBS Wealth Management Americas.  Sales Growth  “I would be careful not to over-interpret that and say
that this is now validation that the U.S. corporate sector will
continue to dominate,” Ryan, whose firm oversees $797 billion,
said in an Aug. 22 phone interview. “You still need to see U.S.
companies continue to do the things that they’ve done well, i.e.
improving efficiency, but also finding ways of trying to grow
the top line.”  Sales at  S&P 500 companies  are forecast to rise 0.4 percent
in the current quarter, the slowest growth since 2009, according
to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Three other energy stocks ceded their top spots along with
Gazprom and Petrobras.  Total SA (FP)  in France,  BP Plc (BP/)  in U.K. and
China Petroleum exited as their market value shrank at least 41
percent since 2007.  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , an oil and natural gas producer based in San
Ramon, California, and BHP Billiton, a mining company based in
Melbourne, entered the list, valued $219.8 billion and $175.8
billion, respectively.  Biggest Banks  Wells Fargo, based in  San Francisco , is catching up with
Beijing-based ICBC, whose $206.5 billion makes it the world’s
most valuable bank. The largest U.S. home lender, which posted
annual profits for more than a decade, is worth $179.8 billion
and ranks No. 18 in the top 20 list.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the discount retailer in Bentonville,
Arkansas, and health-care companies  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and  Pfizer
Inc. (PFE)  joined the group as investors favored stocks whose earnings
are less tied to economic swings.  Wal-Mart rose to the fifth spot with a market
capitalization of $244 billion. J&J and Pfizer, ranked 16th and
19th, are valued $186.4 billion and $179.3 billion,
respectively.  Nestle, a food company based in Vevey, Switzerland, is the
only addition from Europe, valued $202.8 billion.  America’s dominance should last because of advantages such
as universities and venture capital, Howard Ward, who helps
oversee $35.6 billion at Gamco Investors Inc. in Rye, New York,
said in an Aug. 23 phone interview.  “We have many of the best educational institutions, which
train entrepreneurs and then provide the talent to run their
companies,” said Ward. “We have the world’s largest and most
liquid stock market. We have the largest end markets for
technology products. It’s just easier to launch a tech company
here than anywhere else.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at   lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  