-- Baidu Falls as ADRs Slump Most in Five Weeks on Slowdown
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-08-26T16:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/baidu-falls-as-adrs-slump-most-in-five-weeks-on-slowdown.html
Chinese equities  slumped the most in
five weeks in New York on concern growth in the world’s second-
largest economy may weaken further after posting six quarters of
deceleration, eroding corporate earnings.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. slid 1.6 percent last week to
89.73, the most since the week ended July 20.  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , owner
of  China ’s most-popular search engine, sank 14 percent in the
week after losing market share to Qihoo 360 Technology Co. Real
estate websites  E-House China Holdings Ltd. (EJ)  and  SouFun Holdings
Ltd. (SFUN)  fell amid concern China will keep curbs on the industry.
Qihoo posted the biggest weekly rally in a year.  Forty-two companies reporting results since mid-July on the
Bloomberg gauge have missed analysts’  earnings forecast  by an
average of 10 percent, Bloomberg data show. A preliminary index
published by HSBC Holdings Plc last week suggested manufacturing
may contract in China for a 10th month in August.  “The situation in China has gone beyond a soft landing
already, and the next stage is that things will continue to get
worse,”  Michael Shaoul , the chairman of Marketfield Asset
Management in New York, said by phone Aug. 24. “The move in
local equity market signals that the actual corporate earnings
are really deteriorating there. If that continues, at some point
of time, it’ll really start to get the attention of global
investors.”  China ETF Slumps  The Bloomberg measure of U.S.-traded Chinese stocks has
fallen 0.4 percent this year while the Shanghai Composite Index
has lost 4.9 percent to a three-year low.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., dropped 1.4 percent last week
to $34.01. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of the biggest U.S.
shares retreated 0.5 percent for the week to 1,411.13, snapping
a six-week stretch of increases.  The nation still faces “relatively big” pressure on
economic growth, the Financial News reported Aug. 24, citing a
speech by Central Bank Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  at a meeting Aug.
22. The HSBC purchasing managers’ index’s preliminary reading of
47.8 released Aug. 23 compared with July’s final 49.3 figure. It
would be the lowest level since November and the 10th month that
the reading has been below 50, the longest run in the index’s
eight-year history.  American depositary receipts of Beijing-based Baidu
rebounded 0.5 percent to $115.72 on Aug. 24 after declines in
the previous four days dragged the price down 14 percent.  Online Search Market  Competition is intensifying in China’s online search
market, where Baidu used to dominate with a share of about 80
percent, as Qihoo, a developer of computer security and
browsers, started online search services Aug. 16.  Alan Hellawell, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, wrote in an
Aug. 23 note that Baidu lost search traffic market share by 4 to
8 percentage points to Qihoo, and the trend will continue in the
next two quarters. He cut the recommendation on Baidu to hold
from buy, and reduced the price target to $137 from $186.  “While Qihoo’s launch of search is a negative for Baidu,
investors overestimate its potential negative impact,” Henry
Guo, an analyst at ThinkEquity LLC said in a report Aug. 24.  Qihoo, also based in Beijing, declined 2.6 percent to
$23.08 on Aug. 24, trimming last week’s advance to 24 percent.
The weekly increase was still the biggest since July 2011.  E-House, which provides real estate agency services,
dropped for a seventh consecutive day in  New York , the longest
losing streak this year. Its shares lost 13 percent last week in
New York to $4.79, the steepest slump since mid-May.  Home Prices  SouFun, China’s biggest real estate information website,
retreated 5.2 percent last week to $13.75, halting a two-week
advance.  The Chinese government may expand a property tax trial and
raise the “threshold” for home pre-sales if housing prices
rebound too fast, Shanghai Securities News reported Aug. 20,
citing unidentified people. The report came two days after
statistics bureau’s data showing July home prices climbed from a
month earlier in 49 of the 70 cities. That was the most since
May 2011 and compared with 25 cities in June.  Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. slid 5.9 percent Aug. 24 to
$1.93, the most in three weeks.  Yingli, the world’s sixth-largest silicon-based solar
producer, may report Aug. 29 a net loss of $56 million for the
second quarter, according to the  average estimate  of 10 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. That would compare with a profit a year
ago and a loss of $45 million in the prior three months.  Solars Slump  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , which reported a fourth quarter of losses
last week, slumped 5.5 percent to $4.85 on Aug. 24, the biggest
slump in three weeks.  LDK Solar Co. (LDK)  retreated 3.4 percent, its
fourth day of declines, to $1.40. The company, which has yet to
release its second-quarter earnings, has been losing money since
the second quarter of 2011.  “Overcapacity in the solar industry hasn’t shown much
improvement and there has been little consolidation,” Joshua
Giordano, a managing director at Energistics LLC., which advices
trading in energy companies, said by phone Aug. 24 from New
York. “Chinese solar companies will continue to lose money
within the next year. They are mostly insolvent without credit
lines from the government.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 1.1 percent last week to
2,092.10, the lowest level since March 2009. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies lost 1.6 percent to a
three-week low of 9,674.82.  International investors can hold as much as a 49 percent
stake in a joint-venture securities firm, compared with the
previous limit of 33 percent, the China Securities Regulatory
Commission said in a draft of regulations of the industry’s
foreign investments posted on the agency’s website on Aug. 24.  The draft, published to seek public opinions, includes
revisions to the previous rules made in 2002, the regulator
said. The changes reflect commitments made by the Chinese
government in the annual China-U.S. Strategic and Economic
Dialogue held last May, the commission said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  