-- BlackRock Bullish on Thai Bonds, Region’s Worst: Southeast Asia
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o ,   R o n   H a r u i   a n d   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2012-08-27T06:37:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/blackrock-bullish-on-thai-bonds-region-s-worst-southeast-asia.html
BlackRock Inc. is bullish on Thai
bonds,  Asia ’s worst-performing in 2012, saying the central bank
has room to ease monetary policy as a global slump cools demand
for exports from  Southeast Asia ’s second-largest economy.  Thai government debt returned 2.1 percent this year, the
least among 10 Asian countries tracked by HSBC Holdings Plc
together with  Taiwan ’s, compared with 6.1 percent for  India  and
5.9 percent for  Indonesia , the best performances. Consumer-price
gains have stayed below 3 percent for the past four months,
while the central bank has kept its  benchmark interest rate  at 3
percent since cutting it by 25 basis points in January.  “Inflation pressure should remain relatively subdued,
providing room for the Bank of  Thailand  to ease if it needs to
do so in response to worsening economic conditions,” Christian Carrillo, a senior rates strategist at BlackRock, the world’s
largest money manager that oversees $3.56 trillion, said in an
Aug. 23 interview. Singapore-based Carrillo said he favors
longer-dated debt as “valuations seem to rule out entirely the
possibility of monetary easing.”  Minutes of the BoT’s July 25 policy meeting released Aug. 8
showed policy makers are concerned that external risks threaten
growth in exports, which account for about two-thirds of the
economy, and may hamper the nation’s recovery from last year’s
worst floods in 70 years.  Hana Microelectronics Pcl (HANA) , a Bangkok-
based maker of parts for Apple Inc., said this month any
increase in sales would represent an “achievement.”  ‘Global Headwinds’  The 10-year  yield  has dropped 13 basis points, or 0.13
percentage point, to 3.35 percent this quarter, while the five-
year rate fell 15 basis points to 3.19 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The Bank of Thailand signaled after
its last meeting that it has room to cut borrowing costs,
forecasting 2.9 percent inflation this year from an earlier
projection of 3.3 percent.  Gross domestic product increased 4.2 percent last quarter
from a year earlier after rising 0.4 percent in the previous
three months, official data showed Aug. 20, as  government
spending  buoyed the economy. That compared with the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey for a 3.1 percent rise.  The euro-area economies contracted by an average 0.4
percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, official data
show. HSBC lowered its 2012 growth forecast for  China ,
Thailand’s biggest export market, to 8 percent from 8.4 percent,
according to a report released Aug. 24, saying Asia’s largest
economy is facing “global headwinds” that are much stronger
than expected.  Expansionary Policies  Thailand’s government last week cut its expansion estimate
for this year to a maximum of 6 percent from 6.5 percent and
lowered its export-growth projection to 7.3 percent from 15.1
percent. Overseas sales probably declined 3.8 percent in July
from a year earlier, following a 4.2 percent drop in June,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg before official data due Aug. 29.  “We might see some growth, but it won’t be much,” Hana
Microelectronics Chief Executive Officer Richard Han said in an
Aug. 17 interview in Bangkok.  Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra’s government has raised
minimum wages and pledged to spend more than 2 trillion baht
($64 billion) on infrastructure and water-management projects
over the next seven years to boost growth and minimize the
damage from future floods.  “We’re bullish on Thailand,” Yichun Shi, a Taipei-based
 fund manager  who helps oversees NT$109 billion ($3.6 billion) of
assets at Eastspring Securities Investment Trust Co., a unit of
Prudential Plc, said in an Aug. 24 interview. “Although we
think the central bank probably won’t cut interest rates this
year, we think it will continue with its expansionary monetary
policies.”  ‘Ease in September’  The yield on the 3.65 percent Thai government notes due
December 2021 touched 3.22 percent on July 23 and 24, the lowest
level since February, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The rate was 3.37 percent as of 10:39 a.m. in Bangkok. Without a
reduction in borrowing costs, the scope for a further decline in
bond yields is limited, according to Kokusai Asset Management
Co., which oversees about $43 billion.  “The 10-year yield is unlikely to decline past 3.2
percent, given the policy rate is 3 percent with only a small
chance of a rate cut any time soon,” Takahide Irimura, the
Tokyo-based head of emerging-market research at Kokusai Asset,
said in an Aug. 23 interview. “The yields may stay around the
recent range of 3.2 percent to 3.5 percent for a while.”  Interest rates  are a maximum 0.5 percent in the U.S., the
U.K. and  Japan , encouraging investors to shift funds to higher-
yielding bonds in  emerging markets . Global funds bought $21
billion more Thai government securities than they sold this
year, according to data from the Thai Bond Market Association.
The yield on the government’s 3.65 percent note increased 12
basis points in the past two weeks.  “The recent backup in yields seems overdone and they will
go lower from here,” Wee-Khoon Chong, a Hong Kong-based
strategist at Societe Generale SA, said in an Aug. 23 interview.
“The outlook for the second half and possibly 2013 is not
great. We see a good chance the central bank will ease in
September.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  