-- Citigroup’s Pandit Says Regulators Should Avoid Product Control
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2012-08-26T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/citigroup-s-pandit-says-regulators-should-avoid-product-control.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  Chief Executive
Officer Vikram Pandit said regulators shouldn’t dictate what
banks can sell to clients because such controls risk undermining
financial stability and have no clear economic benefit.  Former Citigroup Chairman Sanford “Sandy” Weill said last
month banks should be broken up, separating  investment banking 
from lending and deposit-taking. U.S. regulators are also
working to complete controls that include a ban on proprietary
trading by banks -- the so-called Volcker rule.  Speaking on the Australian Broadcasting Corp., Pandit said
he supports the “concept” of the Volcker rule -- that a bank’s
capital should be used for clients. Still, he said dividing
Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. bank, in the manner suggested
by Weill would be an “artificial separation” and the New York-
based bank must continue to lend as well as tap  capital markets 
for customers.  “Safety and soundness is really important -- let’s get the
regulations in place,” Pandit said in an interview on
yesterday’s Inside Business program on the Australian
Broadcasting Corp. “But we’ve got to stop telling which banks
which products they should sell. I don’t know why that is safe
for the economy and I’m certainly clear that it’s not good for
our clients.”  More than half of Citigroup’s $38 billion  revenue  in the
first six months of 2012 came from the global consumer banking
unit, offering products such as Chinese credit cards and Mexican
personal loans. The securities and banking unit, which includes
trading and investment banking, accounted for $10.7 billion.  ’Less Safe’  While Pandit said banks shouldn’t be too big to fail, he
said helping clients tap capital markets for funds, rather than
rely on loans from Citigroup, allows the company to reduce risk
and control the size of its balance sheet. Forcing banks to do
one or the other “makes us less safe,” Pandit told Inside
Business.  “We have to be in both parts of the business,” said
Pandit, who became CEO in 2007. “Some loans and some funds come
from us, from our balance sheet, others come from the capital
markets.”  Citigroup, which ranks among Wall Street’s five biggest
investment banks, almost collapsed in 2008 amid losses tied to
subprime mortgages. It took a $45 billion bailout and disposed
of other businesses and assets following 2008’s credit crisis.  Citicorp was a commercial bank when it combined in 1998
with Travelers Group Inc., which owned the investment firm
Salomon Smith Barney Holdings Inc. The merger went ahead after
the repeal of the Depression-era  Glass-Steagall Act , which had
separated traditional banks from those involved in capital
markets. Citigroup spun off Travelers Property Casualty Corp. in
2002.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  