-- China Construction Bank Posts Better-Than-Expected Profit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-27T10:37:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/construction-bank-posts-better-than-expected-quarterly-profit.html
China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , the
nation’s second-largest lender by assets, posted a 20 percent
gain in quarterly profit as lending and fee income grew and
asset quality improved.  Net income  climbed to 54.77 billion  yuan  ($8.6 billion) in
the quarter ended June 30 from 45.6 billion yuan a year earlier,
based on figures published by the Beijing-based lender
yesterday. That beat the 49.9 billion-yuan average estimate of
16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Construction Bank, which posted  profit growth  of 10 percent
or more for 11 straight quarters through December, may struggle
to maintain earnings momentum as the slowing economy pushes
borrowers to default. Moves to deregulate  interest rates , along
with easing liquidity after cuts in reserve ratios and borrowing
costs, could also reduce banks’ pricing power on loans.  “We would characterize CCB’s second-quarter earnings
results as the strongest” among peers that have reported so
far, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analysts led by  Mike Werner 
wrote in a note today. “The continued economic uncertainty and
concern over deteriorating credit quality will result in the
more defensive and larger names (like CCB) outperforming their
peers and the market.”  Shares of Chinese banks are trading close to  record-low 
valuations in  Hong Kong . China Everbright Bank Co. said
yesterday it plans to postpone its Hong Kong listing, citing a
“sluggish  capital market ,” the global economy’s slow recovery,
“relatively low” valuations for banking shares and the
 European debt crisis .  Borrowers Disappear  About 17 of the 47 business owners reported to have
disappeared last year to escape loan repayments were
Construction Bank clients, the  South China Morning Post  reported
in May, citing PresidentZhang Jianguo. The lender is owed about
3 billion yuan by Zhejiang Zhongjiang Holding, which is under
debt reorganization after filing for bankruptcy, Financial News
reported last month.  Shares of Construction Bank slipped 0.8 percent to HK$5.22
in Hong Kong trading. They have lost 3.7 percent this year after
declining 22 percent in 2011. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index  lost
14 percent in the same period.  Slowing Economy  China’s economy  expanded last quarter at the slowest pace
in three years as  Europe ’s debt crisis crimped exports and the
government’s crackdown on property speculation cooled domestic
demand. The slowdown may extend into a seventh quarter, with
Deutsche Bank AG cutting its growth estimate for the three
months through September to 7.5 percent from 7.9 percent.  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  on Aug. 24 lowered its outlook for the  full year  to
an 8 percent expansion, down from 8.4 percent.  The nation’s banks doled out 4.86 trillion yuan of  new
loans  in the first half, an increase of 16 percent from the same
period a year earlier.  Growth in new lending this year will be slightly higher
than in 2011, President Zhang Jianguao said at a news conference
in Hong Kong today.  The China Banking Regulatory Commission told lenders last
month that lack of funding, high leverage and a peak of maturing
loans have increased the risk that some developers’ financing
chains may collapse, a person with knowledge of the matter said
on Aug. 17.  For the first six months, Construction Bank’s profit rose
14.5 percent to 106.3 billion yuan, after the lender set aside
14.7 billion yuan against soured loans, 6 percent more than the
same period a year earlier. Smaller rival  Bank of China Co.  last
week posted a 5.3 percent increase in first-half net income to
34.8 billion yuan.  Interest Rates  The People’s Bank of  China  cut  interest rates  for the first
time in three years on June 7 and announced a second reduction
less than a month later. The central bank also gave lenders
permission to pay as much as 1.1 times the officially
established deposit rate and give discounts as deep as 30
percent on loans.  “Banks will feel the pain of the margin squeeze once the
impact of the monetary policy loosening and the interest rate
liberalization fully kick in next year,” said Wilson Li, a
Shenzhen-based analyst at Guotai Junan Securities Co. He expects
profit growth of all Hong Kong-listed Chinese banks to drop to
“single digits” in 2013.  The bank is increasing non-lending income and adopting
other measures to cope with the effects of liberalization, Vice
President Hu Zheyi said at today’s news conference.  Construction Bank’s net interest income, the difference
between what it pays on deposits and receives on loans, rose
16.5 percent in the first half to 169.7 billion yuan as the net
interest margin widened to 2.71 percent. Income from fee and
commission services, such as bank cards and custodian services,
rose 3.3 percent to 49.2 billion yuan.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  