-- Consumer Spending Probably Sped Up in July: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-08-26T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/consumer-spending-probably-sped-up-in-july-u-s-economy-preview.html
Spending by U.S. consumers probably
climbed in July by the most in five months, easing concern the
biggest part of the economy is backsliding, economists said
before a report this week.  Purchases rose 0.5 percent after being little changed in
June, according to the median estimate from 65 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg before Aug. 30 figures from the Commerce
Department. Other reports may indicate a recovery in housing is
helping make up for a slowdown in manufacturing.  An improvement in personal spending, which makes up about
70 percent of the world’s largest economy, shows Americans are
looking beyond the global slowdown as incomes keep growing.
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  in a speech at the end of the week may
help inform views on what options  Federal Reserve  policy makers
have at their disposal to spur the recovery.  “Consumers are still participating in the recovery,” said
 Michael Hanson , a senior U.S. economist at Bank of America Corp.
in  New York . “Economic data has been too hot to get the Fed to
jump in, but too cold to convince them that we’re really in a
sustainable recovery. The economy is struggling to get back up
on its feet.”  A rebound in the labor market in July augmented household
purchasing power last month. Payrolls rose by 163,000 workers in
July, the most since February, according to Labor Department
data. This week’s spending report may show  incomes  increased 0.3
percent after gaining 0.5 percent in June, the most in three
months, the economists projected.  Retail Sales  Retail sales  rose 0.8 percent in July, the most in five
months, Commerce Department data showed Aug. 14. Purchases
climbed in all 13 sales categories, the first time that’s
happened since 2005.  “The back-to-school business has been really quite good,”
Ed Stack, chairman and chief executive officer of  Dick’s
Sporting Goods Inc. (DKS) , said during an Aug. 14 earnings call. The
Coraopolis, Pennsylvania-based retailer this month boosted its
forecast for full-year earnings. “We’ve been very pleased with
our business,” he said.  A pickup in demand from consumers would help shore up the
pace of economic growth. Americans’ purchases increased at a 1.5
percent annual rate in the second quarter, the smallest advance
in a year. The slowdown helped cause the economy to cool.  The Commerce Department’s first revision to second-quarter
gross domestic product on Aug. 29 may show a gain of 1.7 percent
compared with an initially reported 1.5 percent increase,
according to the Bloomberg survey median. In the first three
months of the year, the economy expanded at a 2 percent rate.  FOMC Minutes  That pace of expansion has failed to reduce an  unemployment
rate  that’s held above 8 percent for 42 straight months. It also
explains why Fed policy makers, according to minutes last week
of their July 31-Aug. 1 meeting, signaled they were ready to
take additional steps to spur the recovery.  “Many members judged that additional monetary
accommodation would likely be warranted fairly soon unless
incoming information pointed to a substantial and sustainable
strengthening in the pace of the economic recovery,” according
to the minutes of the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s gathering.  Bernanke, who will speak in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , Aug. 31
during an annual symposium hosted by the  Federal Reserve Bank of
Kansas City , may provide more insight on the central bank’s
view. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  rose 0.6 percent on Aug.
24, paring the first weekly decline in almost two months, after
the Fed chief said he saw “more scope for further action,” in
an Aug. 22 letter to California Republican  Darrell Issa , the
chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee.  Housing Market  The housing market, which precipitated the last recession,
is starting to recover. Figures on Aug. 29 may show pending home
sales, or contract signings for existing properties,  rose  1
percent in July after a 1.4 percent drop the prior month,
according to economists’ forecast before the National
Association of Realtors report.  An Aug. 28 report may show home values are stabilizing. The
S&P/Case-Shiller index of housing prices in 20 cities was
probably  unchanged  in June from a year earlier, the first time
since September 2010 that it hasn’t shown a dropped.  A pickup in home sales and construction is helping
alleviate some of the weakness in manufacturing. A report last
week showed orders for non-military capital goods excluding
aircraft, a proxy for future business investment in new
equipment, slumped 3.4 percent in July. Total bookings for
durable goods, those meant to last at least three years, climbed
4.2 percent, paced by a 54 percent jump in demand for civilian
aircraft.  The July  factory orders  report from the Commerce Department
on Aug. 31 will update the figures on durable goods and give the
first reading on non-durables like clothing and fuel. The surge
in bookings for planes probably pushed order up by 1.9 percent,
according to the survey median.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  