-- Drought Leaves Shippers Scraping Bottom to Move on River
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-08-26T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/drought-leaves-shippers-scraping-bottom-to-move-on-river.html
The tow boat Major General John Peabody uses to survey his domain as regional head of the Corps
of Engineers couldn’t stop last week in Greenville,  Mississippi .  The water in the harbor was so low that the 241-foot
Mississippi V had to dock in  Arkansas , at the end of a gravel
road where grain trucks kicked up clouds of dust that covered
cars with silt.  A year after  the river flooded , drought shut some ports,
driven vessels aground in low water, interrupted shipping and
forced barges to lighten their loads to get through. The
drought, which has shriveled crops and parched the earth from
 Canada  to  Texas , may rival one in 1988 that cost shippers $1
billion and reduced the nation’s largest river to the lowest
point in modern history, said the National Waterways Foundation.  “We have got to keep it open,” said Peabody, 54, the Army
corps’ Mississippi Valley Division commander and president of
the  Mississippi River Commission . “This is the way into the
heartland of the U.S.”  The Mississippi’s waters have  become so shallow  that
shippers have had to cut the number of barges their tow boats
push and the amount of freight each carries. Last week, more
than 100 vessels were halted near Greenville because of
groundings. Transport prices are rising.  More than 566 million tons of freight valued at $180
billion moved through inland waterways in 2010, including 60
percent of U.S. grain exports, 22 percent of domestic petroleum
and 20 percent of the coal used to generate electricity,
according to the Waterways Foundation in Arlington, Virginia.  Mississippi’s Load  Forty-seven percent of that, or 487 million tons, flowed
down the 4,267 miles of navigable channels on the Mississippi
and its tributaries in 2008, the  Corps of Engineers  said.  “Prices for everything go up if this shuts down,” Peabody
said aboard the Mississippi V on a tour of the river with the
commission to meet the public. “The cost of everything goes up
when you don’t have navigation.”  Congress has charged the corps with keeping the ships
moving and that means maintaining a channel at least 300 feet
wide and 9 feet deep in the Mississippi, said Peabody. The
agency has eight dredges working around the clock on the river
below  St. Louis .  “It is the shallowest river most people have looked to
navigate in a long, long time,” said Austin Golding, co-owner
of Golding Barge Line in Vicksburg, Mississippi.  River Levels  In some places, the river is 59 feet lower than it was at
the height of last year’s flooding, said Dennis Norris, chief of
operations for the corps’  Mississippi Valley Division .  In normal years, the river often resembles a highway, with
barges and tow boats replacing 18-wheelers. Barges gather
together in rows in front of flat-bowed tugs that push them
through the water.  Thirty to 40 barges would normally be loaded to a 12-foot
draft, the distance from the bottom of the barge to the bottom
of the river, Ann McCulloch, a spokeswoman for the waterway
foundation, said. Barges can now be loaded only to a 9-foot
draft and the totals have been cut to 20 to 30, she said.  “Each inch of draft reduction equals thousands of tons of
product being left on the bank to make that happen,” Golding
said. “With lighter drafts comes less product being moved. It
is a precautionary measure because a lot of times these boats
are traveling with less than 2 feet from the bottom of the barge
and the bottom of the river.”  Barge Capacity  One barge holds the same amount of diesel as about 140 to
150 trucks, said Walton Gresham, 63, who oversees Delta Terminal
in Greenville and also owns a petroleum dealership in Indianola,
Mississippi, supplying 70 retailers and farms and businesses.  “I am in the fuel business and we receive all of our
product by barge,” Gresham said. “We have had two full barges
sitting south of Greenville for five days. We have a day and a
half of inventory for gasoline. Without fuel everything is going
to stop.”  Trucking in fuel will increase the cost per gallon by two
to three cents, he said.  “As soon as we start taking three and four and five and
six thousand barrels off each barge, you’re putting tens to
hundreds of new trucks on the highways and those trucks aren’t
sitting idle somewhere waiting for the work,” Golding said.  Diverting river traffic to railroads would increase the
tonnage trains carry by 25 percent, according to the waterways
foundation.  Prices Up  Prices are already rising.  “The biggest impact is a 25 percent increase in shipping
costs,” said Tommy Hart, Greenville’s port director, who has
worked the river since 1972.  Louisiana Agriculture and Forestry  Commissioner Mike Strain
said he estimates $350 million worth of grain has to be moved in
the next six weeks. Farmers have begun storing corn in cotton
warehouses, and beans need to get into grain elevators where
they can be protected from moisture, he said.  It would take 7,000 trucks to move grain that normally is
transported by river barges, which can carry 1,500 to 1,600 tons
each, he said.  “Those trucks and trailers don’t exist,” Strain said.
“All of our rail hubs are running at capacity. The way the
infrastructure is set up there is very little alternative.”  If the crops aren’t moved and can’t be stored adequately,
there will be “significant crop loss,” he said.  Consumers’ Cost  “Ultimately the consumer will pay quite a lot of money if
we can’t move them to where we need to move them,” Strain said.  More than 250 tributaries feed into the Mississippi system,
which drains 31 states and two Canadian provinces, or 1.25
million square miles, according to the Corps of Engineers. Warm
temperatures last winter left almost no snow on the ground
across the Midwest to melt and feed the rivers.  Since then, drought has spread across most of the 48
contiguous states. As of Aug. 21, 63.2 percent of the region had
moderate or worse drought conditions, according to  the U.S.
Drought Monitor  in Lincoln,  Nebraska .  Rainfall in  Des Moines ,  Iowa , since June 1 has totaled 5.05
inches, 7.36 inches below normal, the  National Weather Service 
said. In Louisville,  Kentucky , 6.06 inches have fallen, 4.47
fewer than normal.  The forecasts aren’t hopeful. Temperatures in the areas
feeding the river are expected to remain higher than normal and
rainfall lower than normal for the next three months, said
Katelyn Costanza, senior hydrologist at the  Lower Mississippi
River Forecast Center  in Slidell,  Louisiana .  “So it looks grim,” she said.  Dredging Efforts  The $200 million spent on dredging is coming from $1.7
billion the Corps received to make repairs to levees, dams and
spillways after last year’s flood, Peabody said.  The dredges are helped out by existing projects that use
the river’s own power to keep channels open by forcing the flow
between dikes as it rounds bends, Norris said.  “The river can move more silt than we can,” he said.  The flood brought frenetic activity to the river. People
loaded up their possession in moving vans, levees were
strengthened and states even used convicts to fill and stack
sandbags. The drought is different.  Sweeping, fan-shaped sandbars reach into the channel for
hundreds of yards at bends in the river. They resemble pristine
beaches. “They’re real nice if you want to spend the rest of
the afternoon dying in quicksand,” Peabody said as the
Mississippi V rolled by.  Up and down the river, tow boats pushed their barges
diagonally against the banks to await their turn to travel the
channel. Parts of the river resembled a town square full of
parked cars.  In a drought, all most people can do is wait and hope for
rain, Peabody said.  “What keeps me up at night?” Hart asked. “Praying for
rain.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  