-- Dutch Premier Defends Austerity, Says No to More Greek Aid
-- B y   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2012-08-27T10:04:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/dutch-premier-rutte-says-he-s-against-third-greek-aid-package.html
Dutch caretaker Prime Minister  Mark Rutte , seeking a return to power after Sept. 12 elections, said
he would block a third aid package for  Greece  and defended
austerity as the only way out of  Europe ’s debt crisis.  “We’ve helped twice and now it’s up to the Greeks to show
that they want to stay within the euro,” Liberal leader Rutte,
45, said in a debate between the four main party leaders in
Amsterdam last night broadcast on RTL television. “The
Netherlands has been severely hit by the debt crisis and the
solution is to lower taxes, get government finances in order and
make room for investment.”  The Socialists, led by Emile Roemer, have a three-seat lead
over Rutte’s party, known in Dutch as the VVD, with enough
support for 35 of the 150 seats in parliament, according to  a
Maurice de Hond poll  published yesterday. The survey gave both
the  Freedom Party  and the  Labor Party  18 seats. In an  Ipsos
Synovate poll , published Aug. 24, Rutte’s party led with 34
seats, four more than Roemer’s.  It means a third of Dutch voters back the Socialists, who
oppose more spending cuts and refuse to hand over more
sovereignty to Europe, or the Freedom Party, which seeks an exit
from the European Union and the euro. That will make it tough
for Rutte, an ally of German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  in her
efforts to stem the crisis, to find support from perhaps three
or four parties for a majority in parliament and keep cutting
the deficit.  ‘Too Drastic’  “The budget cuts are too drastic and over too short a
period of time,” said Roemer, who like Rutte was taking part
for the first time last night in a pre-election debate. “People
who have less are paying the bill,” the Socialist leader, who
turned 50 on Aug. 24, said in a direct response to Rutte.  An assessment of each party’s platform by the independent
Dutch planning agency CPB found that Roemer’s program for the
next four years would give citizens the most purchasing power
while creating half a million fewer jobs than the VVD, Coen Teulings, the CPB’s director, said today at a press conference.
The Liberals would produce the lowest  budget deficit  at the end
of a four-year government, at 1.1 percent of gross domestic
product by 2017, while under Wilders the economy would grow the
most, with 0.7 percent in 2017, according to the CPB analysis.  Elections Triggered  Elections were called after Rutte’s Cabinet resigned on
April 23, when Freedom Party leader  Geert Wilders , who’d been
backing a minority government of Liberals and  Christian
Democrats , withdrew support for spending cuts and tax increases.  Rutte’s administration and three opposition parties struck
a deal three days later on an austerity package to make sure
that the budget deficit next year stays within 3 percent of
gross domestic product. The 2013 deficit is now forecast at 2.7
percent, the government’s planning agency said Aug. 22.  The five parties that signed the austerity deal don’t have
enough backing for a majority, according to polls.  Wilders, 48, has made Europe the key issue of his election
program under the slogan “Their Brussels, our Netherlands.”
He’s demanding a return to the guilder, after a report
commissioned by the party said in March that the  Netherlands 
would eventually profit from abandoning the euro. “We need to
become boss in our own country again,” he said in the debate.  More Time  Diederik Samsom, 41, a former Greenpeace activist who took
over leadership of the Labor Party from Job Cohen in March, also
wants more time for the Netherlands to meet the budget-deficit
limits from Brussels. “We have two principles: share the burden
and make progress possible,” Samsom said.  Rutte has stood by Merkel as she staves off calls to
provide more help to cash-strapped southern European countries.
A new Dutch government less willing to pursue austerity or
readier to see the euro break up might make the chancellor’s
task more complex at a time when she is striving to find common
ground with French Socialist President  Francois Hollande .  Merkel warned her German coalition partners advocating a
Greek exit from the euro to “weigh their words” yesterday,
signaling a renewed determination to keep the single currency
intact. She told ARD television that the fight against the debt
crisis has reached a “decisive phase.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  