-- Legendary CEOs, Enjoying Nantucket, Call for Higher Taxes
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-08-26T22:33:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/legendary-ceos-enjoying-nantucket-call-for-higher-taxes.html
If you get  Jack Welch , Lou Gerstner
and Bob Wright -- three of the U.S.’s most highly respected
former executives -- together in a room with David Gregory, the
host of NBC’s “Meet the Press,” and there are no television
cameras around, there are bound to be some fireworks.  On a recent  steamy evening  in a high school gymnasium on
Nantucket Island in  Massachusetts , the men did not disappoint.  When Gregory asked about the continuing anger in the
country directed toward  Wall Street  for the financial crisis and
what responsibility bankers, traders and executives have for the
ongoing economic turmoil, the discussion turned especially
serious.  Gregory reminded the men of his previous interview with
 Jamie Dimon , the chairman and chief executive officer of
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , in the middle of the bank’s “London
Whale” trading crisis, which has cost the firm almost $6
billion and counting. Gregory  asked  Dimon on May 13 if it was
“misplaced criticism” to blame Wall Street for bringing the
economy down without anyone on Wall Street having gone to jail
as a result.  Dimon said the criticism was fair, and that the public had
a sense that “there’s been no Old Testament justice here, that
no one was punished,” he said. But he argued that blaming
“everybody” was also wrong: “If you think someone did
something wrong, go get those people that did something wrong
and blame them. In the meantime, the rest of us should hold
hands, get together -- collaborate -- business and government
together to fix the problems. It’s going to be very hard for
government to do it on its own and business can’t do it without
collaborating with the government.”  Visionary Leader  Gregory asked the same question of the Aug. 13 panel on
Nantucket. Welch, the former chairman and CEO of  General
Electric Co. (GE) , answered first. “Do you think the guy leading the
country could have a more balanced approach to the recklessness
of some hothead businessman, rather than demonize him?” Welch
asked rhetorically, his ire at President  Barack Obama  apparent
throughout much of the discussion. “We need a leader who has a
vision” he said, not someone who is focused on demonizing
business leaders.  Like Dimon, Welch emphasized the importance of getting
 Washington  to work closely with business leaders, including
those on Wall Street, to get the country’s economy humming
again.  Not so fast, parried Gregory, how about some accountability
for those on Wall Street who steered the country into such a
financial mess?  “I want to tell you something, a lot of people in the
business community are totally fed up with what’s going on in
the financial services industry,” Gerstner, the former chairman
and CEO of  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , said to
widespread applause (which was a bit surprising given the high
percentage of island residents who are financial service
professionals).  “Nobody on this stage is going to defend everything that
goes on in business,” Gerstner added, criticizing in particular
the “golden parachutes” that so many “idiot CEOs get when
they get fired.”  Yet he, too, took the work-with-Washington tack: “There
are bad things that go on at individual companies and in some
cases individual industries, but Jack’s absolutely right, the
issue is, can we build a partnership between the government and
the business community to work on growth in this country? If we
grow, then guess what? There’s going to be something for
everybody.”  But, Gregory wondered, why hasn’t Obama tried to build a
bridge to business leaders? Ask them to the  Rose Garden , Gregory
said, and with them at his side, state unequivocally his
intention to work together to solve the problems facing the
economy.  Political Base  Wright, the former chief of  NBC Universal , suggested that
Obama prefers to play to his political base rather than be seen
to be extending an olive branch to business leaders. He then
took a page from the playbook of  Mitt Romney , the presumptive
Republican presidential nominee: “Let me say one thing:
Corporations are people. All these corporations are people. A
lot of people got their savings wiped out. They got their stock
wiped out. They got their  retirement plans  wiped out. It wasn’t
like corporations were somehow not affected by the crisis
because they are buildings and the buildings are still there.
There are people inside who got really whacked.”  Wright argued that looking back and placing blame was
unproductive. “At some point, you have got to say, ‘We have to
move forward. We can’t just keep arguing every single point
looking back five, eight or 10 years,” he said. “We have to
move forward. We have the most productive business entities and
people in the world. We just have to get moving.”’  I am starting to get convinced. Even though there has been
no accountability whatsoever for the Wall Street bankers,
traders and executives who brought the American economy to its
knees, the situation is so dire and the time to deal with it so
short that the best option available is the one that Dimon,
Welch, Gerstner and Wright agree on: Put aside the partisan
bickering immediately and get the nation’s true business and
political leaders together to begin to solve our fiscal
problems.  The former CEOs in that Nantucket gym agreed that a good
place to start would be to raise taxes on the wealthy as part of
a comprehensive tax and spending plan to achieve a modicum of
fiscal responsibility. “Some of these problems can be fixed in
a half an hour,” Wright told the audience. The clock is
ticking.  (William D. Cohan, the author of “Money and Power: How
Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. He was formerly an investment banker at Lazard
Freres, Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase. The opinions expressed
are his own.)   Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why  Republicans should quit
talking  about a moocher class and on the abuse of  drug users in
China and Southeast Asia ;  Noah Feldman  on why  colleges need
affirmative action ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  Mitt Romney and the
movement conservatives ;  Stephen Smith  on the exorbitant costs of
 U.S. mass transit projects .  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 