-- Egyptian Shares Rise to Highest Since March as Tensions Ease
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-08-26T14:05:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/egyptian-shares-rise-to-highest-since-march-as-tensions-ease.html
Egypt ’s stocks climbed to the
highest level in more than five months after a protest against
the president and the Muslim Brotherhood failed to rally mass
support and the constitution neared completion.  The benchmark EGX 30  Index (SASEIDX)  advanced 0.5 percent to 5,242.47
at the close in Cairo, the highest since March 11. In the
 Persian Gulf ,  Abu Dhabi ’s ADX General Index rose for an 11th
day, the longest winning streak in almost six months, gaining
0.2 percent. Dubai’s DFM General Index decreased 0.9 percent.
The Bloomberg GCC 200 Index was little changed.  Protests that were planned for over the weekend in Cairo
and Alexandria against President Mohamed Mursi and his allies
were largely peaceful. A draft of the constitution will be ready
to be put to a referendum by late September and Egyptians will
go to the polls to vote for parliament members within two months
after its approval, Prime Minister Hisham Qandil said yesterday.  “It is clear now that the majority of Egyptians are
willing to give Mursi the benefit of the doubt until the end
of” his first 100 days in office, Wafik Dawood, director of
institutional sales at Cairo-based Mega Investments Securities,
said by phone. “At that point the real opposition is going to
show up. Not the few thousands that showed up over the
weekend.”  Loan Talks  Mursi consolidated power this month by forcing into
retirement the country’s top two generals, a move that wasn’t
contested by the military. The North African nation also
restarted loan talks with the  International Monetary Fund  as it
seeks to end more than 18 months of political and economic
unrest.  Commercial International Bank Egypt SAE (COMI) , the country’s
biggest publicly traded lender, gained 0.7 percent to 29.07
Egyptian pounds, the highest in more than a month. The bank was
removed from Standard and Poor’s creditwatch negative status and
had its B rating affirmed.  Dubai’s  DP World (DPW)  lost 1.5 percent, the most in almost two
weeks, to $10.20. The world’s third-largest ports operator had
its contract canceled by Yemen’s Gulf of Aden Ports, according
to the country’s state news agency.  Saudi Arabia ’s Tadawul All Share Index was little changed.
Kuwait’s SE Price Index fell 0.2 percent, while Oman’s MSM30
Index declined less than 0.1 percent. Qatar’s QE Index added 0.1
percent.  In  Israel , the benchmark TA-25 Index advanced 0.3 percent.
The yield on the benchmark 5.5 percent bonds maturing in January
2022 gained 1 basis point to 4.14 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  