-- Memories of Neil Armstrong, Shy hero, American Patriot
-- B y   J a m e s   M .   C l a s h
-- 2012-09-02T09:56:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/memories-of-neil-armstrong-shy-hero-american-patriot.html
After 13 years, I had finally
earned the late  Neil Armstrong ’s confidence.  Up until the end, the great American hero, who had just
turned 82, guarded his privacy fiercely. But it wasn’t because
he was arrogant -- he was intensely shy.  My own experience with the man of few words began in 1995
with another of my boyhood heroes, Edmund Hillary. During our
interview about his 1953 first-ascent of Everest, the
mountaineer suggested I do something similar with Armstrong
about his 1969 historic lunar landing. He went on to say that he
and Armstrong had flown to the  North Pole  together in 1985, and
that the astronaut was a friendly chap.  So I fired off a letter to P.O. Box 436, Lebanon,  Ohio ,
where all Armstrong interview requests were to be sent. A few
weeks later a response arrived, signed by Armstrong but politely
declining. In fact, Armstrong didn’t do interviews, period, so I
shouldn’t be surprised or dismayed.  Persistent, I sent a few more requests, some playful, but
the icon never budged.  At the 2002 annual dinner of The Explorers Club, where
Armstrong was a longtime member and medalist, I finally met him
in person.  Test Pilot  When I got to the front of a long line (Walter Cronkite and
George Plimpton were ahead of me), Armstrong saw my name tag and
laughed, “I know who you are.” I was embarrassed but had the
presence of mind to ask why he ducked interviews.  “To me, an interview is like a first draft, and I like
fourth or fifth drafts.”  I could understand that. As an engineer and test pilot,
where precision means the difference between life and death, you
don’t want to make a mistake by being sloppy.  The following year, when I released my first adventure
book, I sent Armstrong a copy. Back came an e-mail: “Thanks
Jim. While reading “To the Limits,” I am reminded of all the
things I still have to do, and the less and less time I have for
doing them.”  I was dumbstruck. That he would acknowledge receipt of, let
alone read, the book meant more to me than if I had sold a
million copies (I didn’t). But I also had Armstrong’s private e-
mail address.  I guarded it fiercely, but sometimes would banter with him.
Every time I got a response I printed it out, almost giddily.
His missives were short, but spot on.  South Pole  In one, I mentioned my ski trip to the  South Pole , a place
he had never been but wanted to visit. He asked if the moon
appeared “upside down.”  I was confused -- thought maybe he was pulling my leg --but
I looked it up. Sure enough, in the southern hemisphere the
moon’s large dark “mare” areas appear on the bottom right
rather than upper left. I sent a photo confirming the
phenomenon, and Armstrong replied with three words: “Good job,
Jim!” -- as if I were his student.  Another time, I asked about his near-fatal crash while
testing the clumsy Lunar Landing Training Vehicle in  Texas 
before Apollo 11. With no warning, the craft suddenly rolled,
plummeted to the ground and burned. Armstrong ejected so last-
second that the tape needs to be slowed down to see the
ejection.  “Some days are better than others,” he replied simply.  In 2007, Forbes, where I then worked, asked 50 prominent
individuals their thoughts on the American Dream. I asked
Armstrong to participate and, no surprise, he declined, writing:
“To me, the American Dream today seems like nothing more than
sitting back and being entertained.”  Rare Throwback  I knew, of course, if I gave that to my editors they would
run with it, but I also knew I would betray Armstrong’s
confidence. I kept it to myself.  Perhaps he was testing me, because the next time I asked
for an interview -- for my book, “The Right Stuff: Interviews
with Icons of the 1960s,” he finally agreed. Perhaps he knew
the gesture would mean the world to me. And perhaps I had
finally gained his trust and friendship.  That’s the kind of man Armstrong was. In a world where
everything is about “me, me and me,” he was a rare throwback
to a time when humility and character counted, when people
routinely risked their lives not to get rich, bloviate or self-
aggrandize, but for their country, science and exploration.  My first question, which I believe most of America would
have asked him, had to do with the dicey landing. As he and crew
mate Buzz Aldrin neared the lunar surface, Armstrong could see
that their trajectory was taking them directly into a dangerous
crater.  Dangerous Landing  He took the controls manually, deciding to fly over the
obstacle making for a safer landing but also using more fuel. In
fact, by the time of touch-down, they had only 17 seconds of
fuel left!  Armstrong could easily have aborted the landing, but
didn’t. Here was his answer, heavy engineer talk but insightful
nonetheless:  “The powered descent, final approach and landing were the
most challenging segments [of Apollo 11]. The unknowns were
substantial, the systems were heavily loaded and it was the
first time these sequences had been attempted in flight.  “Fortunately, the Lunar Module handling characteristics
were better than we had any right to expect. And our practice on
the Lunar Module Simulator and in the free-flying Lunar Landing
Training Vehicle had given us high confidence in our piloting
ability.  High Risk  “Aborting required shutting down the landing engine,
separating the ascent stage from the descent stage with
explosive charges and igniting the ascent engine. That was a
very high-risk procedure, particularly at low altitude. It was
to be avoided unless absolutely necessary. So Apollo 11 was
always closer to landing than aborting.”  In another answer, Armstrong revealed his optimism about
takeoff from the lunar surface to return to Earth, which many
said had less than a 50 percent chance of success:  “I had been very concerned about the technical details of
assuring that [on the moon] the ascent engine could be started
and would do the job of getting us back into lunar orbit. But
that was in the two years prior to the flight. On the lunar
surface, it did not weigh on my mind at all. This was the time
to think positively.”  Gemini 8  David Scott , who flew with Armstrong on Gemini 8 and later
walked on the moon as part of Apollo 15, when asked about
Armstrong earlier this year told me: “I love him, he’s a
wonderful guy and he’s very smart. Everybody wanted to be first
down. Neil was absolutely the right man. His stewardship of
being first has been marvelous.”  Coincidentally, I had a rare opportunity to repay my hero,
just a little, a few months ago. Following a “60 Minutes”
piece on Space X where Armstrong felt he was quoted out of
context, he asked me for help in getting the record fixed.  I have a friend who knows the producer at CBS, so I made
enquiries, then the appropriate introductions.  Scott Pelley , the
segment’s anchor, investigated. Sure enough, Armstrong got his
apology, and I got a thank you from the first man who walked on
the moon.  (James M. Clash is the author of “The Right Stuff:
Interviews with Icons of the 1960s” (AskMen, 2012). He writes
on adventure for Muse, the arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg
News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
James M. Clash, in  New York , at  jamesmclash@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 