-- Merkel Warns Government Allies to ‘Weigh Their Words’ on Greece
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-08-26T16:43:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/merkel-warns-officials-to-weigh-their-words-over-greek-exit.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
warned her coalition partners advocating a Greek exit from the
euro to “weigh their words,” as she signaled a renewed
determination to keep the single currency intact.  Asked about comments by a leader of her Bavarian  Christian
Social Union  governing partner calling for  Greece  to depart,
Merkel told  ARD television  that such remarks were damaging as
crisis fighting has reached a “decisive phase.” Alexander Dobrindt, the CSU’s general secretary, told today’s  Bild
newspaper  that Greece wouldn’t be part of the 17-nation euro
area next year.  “Everybody should weigh their words very carefully,”
Merkel told ARD today in Berlin. The Greek government under
Prime Minister Antonis Samaras is undertaking “serious
efforts” to reduce its debt, she said, and repeated that
 Germany  will stand by the country where the crisis originated.  Merkel also called the permanent bailout fund, the European
Stability Mechanism, “absolutely necessary” to overcome the
crisis and signaled that she’s confident that the Federal
Constitutional Court will approve the measure when it decides on
the matter on Sept. 12.  “I think we’ve brought forward good arguments” for the
ESM, Merkel said, alluding to the euro-area’s fiscal pact.  The German leader said the  European Central Bank  has a
“very clear” mandate to ensure the single currency’s stability
and that any plan decided under ECB President  Mario Draghi  will
conform with that mandate.  Sovereign Purchases  Responding to criticism over sovereign debt purchases made
by Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann, Merkel said she welcomed
input from Germany’s central bank.  “I think it’s a good thing that Jens Weidmann continues to
make demands on policy makers,” Merkel told ARD.  Weidmann told today’s  Der Spiegel  magazine that a proposed
new wave of sovereign bond purchases by the ECB may increase
governments’ reliance on such funding and won’t help solve the
euro-area debt crisis.  “We shouldn’t underestimate the danger that central bank
financing can become addictive like a drug,” Weidmann said in
an interview with Spiegel. “Such policy is too close to state
financing via the money press for me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  