-- Messi Gives Barcelona Victory as Real Madrid’s Unbeaten Run Ends
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-08-26T23:50:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/messi-gives-barcelona-victory-as-real-madrid-s-unbeaten-run-ends.html
Lionel Messi  lifted Barcelona to a
2-1 victory at Osasuna as Real  Madrid ’s 24-game unbeaten Spanish
soccer run ended in a 2-1 defeat at Getafe. AC Milan lost 1-0 at
home to newly promoted Sampdoria as  Italy ’s Serie A began.  World Player of the Year Messi scored twice in the last 14
minutes to give Barca the comeback win in Pamplona last night
after Joseba Llorente put Osasuna ahead in the 17th minute.  Real, which opened its title defense with a 1-1 draw
against Valencia, went ahead at Getafe through Gonzalo Higuain
in the 27th minute before the home team rallied with second-half
goals from Juan Valera and Abdelaziz Barrada. It was Real’s
first La Liga loss since a 3-1 defeat to Barcelona on Dec. 10.
The last time Real was winless after two matches was in 2001-02,
according to Infostrada Sports.  “It is a bad start without a doubt,” Real manager  Jose Mourinho  said in comments on his team’s website. “The match
against Valencia was different because we drew but deserved to
win. Not this match. We deserved to lose.”  Barcelona and Rayo Vallecano, which defeated Real Betis 2-1
on Aug. 25, have a 100 percent record after two games. Real
Valladolid can also move to six points by beating Levante today.  In Italy, Milan lost to Sampdoria on a header from Andrea
Costa after 58 minutes yesterday at the San Siro.  Milan, the Serie A runner-up last season, sold players in
the off-season including  Thiago Silva  and Zlatan Ibrahimovic,
who both joined Paris Saint-Germain. Sampdoria is back in the
top division after a one-year absence.  Two days ago, Juventus opened the defense of its title with
a 2-0 win against Parma. Stephan Lichtsteiner and  Andrea Pirlo 
scored the goals.  Germany, France  In the first round of German Bundesliga matches,  Borussia
Dortmund  started its title defense with a 2-1 home win against
Werder Bremen on Aug. 24.  Bayern Munich  won 3-0 at promoted
Greuther Furth two days ago.  In yesterday’s only game, Hanover and Schalke tied 2-2.  Montpellier, which last season won its first French
championship, remains without a win in Ligue 1 after a 1-0 home
defeat against Marseille.  Andre-Pierre Gignac got the only goal yesterday for
Marseille, which is the only team with the maximum nine points
through three matches. Bordeaux and PSG tied 0-0 last night, the
third straight draw for the capital club.  FC Twente  has the only perfect record through three games
in Dutch soccer’s Eredivisie, following its 3-1 win yesterday at
 NEC Nijmegen . Ajax won 5-0 against  NAC Breda  two days ago and is
among four teams two points back.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 