-- Teva $1 Billion Market Depends on New Test of Laquinimod
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2012-08-27T14:10:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/teva-10-billion-market-depends-on-new-test-of-laquinimod.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
is recruiting about 1,800 patients for a new trial of its
multiple sclerosis pill in a bid to improve how the disease is
treated and secure a successor to its best-selling medicine.  The drug, laquinimod, is undergoing a third round of
research with a new focus on slowing a patient’s descent into
disability after failing to beat competing products on the
industry standard of reducing the rates at which they experience
relapses. Teva is testing the pill, shown to be safe in earlier
trials, at a higher dose as it seeks to verify that the drug
effectively delays loss of muscle control and balance.  “If this trial confirms that the drug can indeed reduce
the progression of the disease, that would be very significant
for people with MS,” said  Timothy Coetzee , chief research
officer at the National MS Society, who oversees the New York-
based association’s $45 million research portfolio. “The last
trials showed that something is definitely happening there, in
terms of impact on the brain.”  The treatment would be important in helping Petach Tikva,
Israel-based Teva make up for a loss in revenue from its
Copaxone injection, which controls as much as 40 percent of the
$10 billion MS market. The drug faces competition from newer
pills such as  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Gilenya and  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) ’s
BG-12. Teva predicts Copaxone revenue, which accounted for 21
percent of sales in 2011, will peak at $3.8 billion this year.  Convincing Investors  Sales of the drug may fall to $1.44 billion in 2018,
according to a July 31 report by EvaluatePharma Ltd. None of the
company’s next four biggest sellers are forecast to reach $1
billion in annual revenue in that time, the report said.  Teva’s American depositary receipts fell 14 percent in May,
the biggest monthly drop  since  September 2001, after it reported
sales that missed analysts’ estimates and later cut forecast
earnings for 2012. The U.S. shares, which rose 0.1 percent to
$40.45 at 10:07 a.m. in New York, are almost unchanged this year
and trail a 9 percent advance by the  Bloomberg World
Pharmaceuticals Index. (TEVA)  Teva stock traded in  Israel  gained the
most in two weeks today, adding 0.9 percent to 162.70 shekels at
the close in Tel Aviv.  Teva is trying to convince investors that results for
laquinimod this time will be different after earlier study
outcomes sent the stock tumbling.  “Most of  Wall Street  has written off this drug,”  Randall Stanicky , an analyst at Canaccord Genuity with a buy
recommendation on Teva, said by phone from New York. “With
BG-12 about to hit the market, and its data being so good, you
have to ask yourself: How is this drug going to be positioned?”  New Goals  The new study, dubbed Concerto, may take as long as two
years to complete, according to Teva. A successful outcome would
enable a change in treatment goals for MS, which affects about
2.1 million people. Doctors now focus on a drug’s ability to
reduce the frequency of relapses, marked by a temporary
worsening or the appearance of new symptoms, such as loss of
sight in one eye or wobbly sensations.  Multiple sclerosis causes the immune system to attack the
insulating tissue around nerve fibers, slowly depriving patients
of mobility, balance and coordination. Many MS patients have
trouble sticking with injected or infused therapies because
they’re difficult to use or have side effects, according to the
 National MS Society .  Laquinimod could achieve commercial success as drugs that
also tackle the long-term progression of the disease into
disability would increasingly garner doctors’ attention,
according to Asthika Goonewardene, a Bloomberg Industries
pharmaceutical analyst in  London .  BG-12  Biogen said in October that BG-12 was safe and reduced the
annual rate of relapse by 44 percent when taken twice daily,
while Copaxone reduced the rate by 29 percent versus a placebo.
In the most recent study of laquinimod, Bravo, the drug missed
the main target of reducing annualized relapse rates, Teva said.  Prescribing laquinimod for patients may be difficult if the
drug doesn’t help reduce relapses, said Aaron Miller, medical
director of New York-based Mount Sinai School of Medicine’s
multiple sclerosis center.  “Disability data is the most important, but if you put
patients on a drug for long-term treatment and they start having
relapses, one tends to throw in the towel,” Miller said in a
phone interview. “My hope would be that the higher dose might
improve the relapse data.”  Bravo, Allegro  In the Bravo trial and the earlier study, Allegro,
laquinimod showed no extra incidence of side effects, infections
or deaths versus a placebo, while it demonstrated significant
reductions in both brain-volume loss and the risk of disability,
according to Teva.  Laquinimod’s capacity to reduce the progression to
disability and decelerate the loss of brain mass raises the
prospect of combination therapy, National MS Society’s Coetzee
said.  “The notion that you would combine a couple of agents is
not far-fetched,” Coetzee said in a phone interview.  A spokesman for Teva declined to provide additional
information on the Concerto trial, such as whether the company
will explore laquinimod’s effectiveness when used together with
another MS drug.  Laquinimod could be used as a treatment for relatively
young patients who experience so-called clinically isolated
syndrome, an initial inflammation of the central nervous system
that sometimes deteriorates to MS, according to Ronny Gal, an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Gal also didn’t rule out
the drug being prescribed in combination with other therapies.  $1 Billion Market  “Think about the 31-year-old woman who doesn’t want to
immediately take a drug unless she knows it’s safe,” Gal said
by phone from  New York . “That could be a $1 billion market.”
The trial has “high” odds of succeeding, he said.  Teva would also benefit should laquinimod be used for
treating Crohn’s disease and lupus, Gal said. Those diseases,
like MS, arise when the immune system mistakes some part of the
body as a pathogen and attacks its own cells. The drug is in
separate clinical studies for those conditions.  Teva and its partner on laquinimod,  Active Biotech AB (ACTI) , are
seeking approval in  Europe  for the drug’s use as an MS
treatment. Lund, Sweden-based Active said on July 17 that the
European Medicines Agency completed the validation process for
the pill’s marketing authorization application.  Analyst Upgrade  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration ’s permission for a
third advanced-stage trial and the European regulatory filing
have raised confidence in the drug, analysts at Jefferies
International Ltd., including Peter Welford in London, said in a
note to clients on Aug. 10. Welford raised his 12-month  target 
for Active’s share price to 50 kronor from 40 kronor.  Approval of laquinimod in the U.S. would be expected in the
second half of 2016, assuming trial results come out a year
earlier, Welford said. The drug has a 50 percent chance of
commercial success and potential for $900 million in worldwide
sales under conservative estimates, he said.  Active Biotech  declined  0.6 percent to 49.7 kronor at 4:06
p.m. in  Stockholm , paring the stock’s advance in the past 12
months to 64 percent.  A U.S. federal judge in New York handed Teva a ruling in
June that may delay generic versions of Copaxone from entering
the market until 2015. The victory may give Teva more time to
switch patients to a new, higher-dosage version of the drug.
Teva said June 14 that a late-stage trial of a longer-acting
formulation reduced MS relapses more than a placebo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in  Tel Aviv  at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  