-- Former Credit Suisse Banker Sells Exclusive Wines Online
-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 2012-08-26T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/former-credit-suiss-banker-sells-exclusive-wines-online.html
At first it sounds like another
story about an investment banker jettisoning his dull job to
cash in on the excitement of wine.  But as Kevin Sidders, a former investment banker at  Credit
Suisse (CS)  and Blue Beacon Capital, starts talking about his new
business,  VinConnect Inc. , over our ceviche lunch in  New York , I
become seriously intrigued.  His company is an innovative take on the old idea of
California winery mailing lists. Instead of cult cabs,
VinConnect’s many lists offer sought-after European labels, like
Burgundy’s famed  Clos de Tart , one of my favorites.  Why did it take so long for someone to do this? Especially,
as Sidders points out, because direct-to-consumer is the
fastest-growing segment of the wine business.  On VinConnect’s website, which started last September, you
can put your name down on lists for one or more of 19 top
wineries in Burgundy, the  Rhone Valley , Piemonte and Tuscany,
then wait for occasional e-mail offers and news from each to
arrive.  Already 650 wine lovers have signed up for at least one
list, says 46-year-old Sidders.  Hedge Funder  One of the first to join was Burgundy fan and hedge funder
Michael Ogborne, founder of San Francisco-based Ogborne Capital
Management LLC.  “I’ve already drunk the six bottles of Domaine Louis
Michel & Fils Chablis I purchased,” he laments in a telephone
interview. “I should have ordered two and a half cases.”  Those wines were early releases of four premiers and grands
crus bottlings from the stellar 2010 vintage not yet available
elsewhere in the U.S.  Ogborne’s latest purchases of Clos de Tart are safely
stashed in his cellar. He’s one of 300 people on the historic
estate’s list, with more waiting to join.  No wonder. The most recent offer, in May, included a rare
magnum ($950) and a jeroboam ($2,180) of their spicy, rich and
velvety 2010.  “Buying from a mailing list saves me a lot of time,” says
47-year-old Ogborne. “It helps to have them all on one site.
You also develop an emotional connection to the winery that you
don’t get when you buy in a shop.”  Expensive Wines  The wines available are high-end and most are fairly
expensive, though often cheaper than retail.  For the wineries, selling direct is a way to build a solid
core of fans and get to know customers. There’s also greater
financial gain.  “A study done by Napa Valley winery  Chateau Montelena 
found mailing-list customers bought three and a half times more
of their wines than ordinary customers,” says Sidders, who’s
pitched his idea to about 90 European estates. Only two, he
says, weren’t interested.  Before starting VinConnect, Sidders was a  California  cult-
wine mailing aficionado himself, and was signed up on 15 lists,
including Saxum Vineyards and Pride Mountain Vineyards.  After years playing idea and dollar partner to tech
startups at Credit Suisse and then Blue Beacon Capital, Sidders
wanted a change. He enrolled in the University at California at
Davis’s OIV wine marketing program in 2007.  Eureka Moment  His Eureka moment came on a trip to  Italy ’s Barolo country
in late 2010, when he asked himself why these wineries didn’t
sell through mailing lists.  Thanks to the U.S.’s byzantine three-tier alcohol
distribution system, it took months for Sidders to obtain
licensing, set up warehousing and organize connections via
European agents. He can ship to all but 18 states.  Sidders says his customers are passionate about wine, but
don’t always have deep knowledge.  “Joining VinConnect’s lists was an easy way to balance out
my cellar with European wines,” says Davin McAndrews, a San
Francisco-based entrepreneur and high-tech consultant whom I
reached on vacation at  Lake Tahoe .  His collection is heavy on California, Washington State and
Australian Shiraz. A California mailing-list fan, he enjoys the
perks of being a top customer, such as access to special tours
and tastings.  Chateauneuf-du-Pape  Among this summer’s VinConnect offers was a three-pack of
popular Chateauneuf-du-Pape producer  Domaine du Pegau ’s 2008 and
2009 Cuvee Reservee reds and 2011 white for $159, about 10 to 15
percent less than at retail stores.  Last month, those on the list for Barbaresco producer
Pelissero could buy rare, ready-to-drink 1996 Barbaresco Annata
($95), from a great vintage, and the just-released 2009
Barbaresco Vanotu ($100).  Piemonte perfectionist winemaker Roberto Voerzio’s initial
offers were unique six-packs of his brilliant four single
vineyard Barolos from the 2007 and 2008 vintages for $1,400,
including shipping.  If you’re looking for exclusivity, the best bets among
VinConnect’s lists are tiny producers whose wines are difficult
to find, such as biodynamic Domaine Vieille Julienne in
Chateauneuf-du-Pape and emerging Rhone winery Gourt de Mautens
in Rasteau.  Others, like Fontodi (Tuscany) and Vincent Girardin
(Burgundy), are fairly widely available in retail shops.  I do have a few reservations. The lack of in-depth
information about producers on VinConnect’s website is
disappointing.  And so far, most of the limited choices -- 12 of the 19
producers are Italian -- lean toward well-known, highly visible
producers that get big scores.  A little buying advice: I know from experience that it’s
easy to succumb to mailing-list addiction. Order small amounts
at first and don’t stay on a list if a winery’s offers don’t wow
you. But definitely put your name down on the Clos de Tart wait
list, and pray someone else drops off.  ( Elin McCoy  writes on wine and spirits for  Bloomberg News .
The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Jeffrey Burke’s  interview  with
musician David Bromberg.  To contact the writer of this story: Elin McCoy at
 elinmccoy@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 