-- Gillard’s Labor Loses Power in Australia Northern Territory
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-08-26T23:42:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/gillard-s-labor-loses-power-in-australia-northern-territory-1-.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s  Labor Party  lost power in elections in the  Northern
Territory  after 11 years in office.  The Country Liberal Party, led by Terry Mills, won at least
15 of the 25 seats in the Legislative Assembly to oust Chief
Minister Paul Henderson’s Labor, according to incomplete results
from the Aug. 25 election published by the  Australian Electoral
Commission  today.  People “voted for change and for a better future,” Mills
said in comments broadcast by  Sky News  yesterday.  The Northern Territory, about the size of Mongolia, is a
sparsely populated region in Australia’s arid central-north.
More than half of the territory’s 230,000 people live in the
port city of Darwin, and about a third of its population is
indigenous compared with the national average of about 3
percent, according to government statistics.  The election was fought on issues including strengthening
the police, affordable housing, government funding in remote and
rural areas, and indigenous rights. Treasurer  Wayne Swan  told
reporters in Canberra today the election result was largely
decided on local factors.  Gillard, in an e-mailed statement yesterday, congratulated
Mills and paid tribute to Henderson’s work as chief minister.  Henderson “leaves the economy in superb condition, with an
unemployment rate of just 4 percent, down from 7.4 percent,”
Gillard said.  Nielsen Poll  In March, Labor suffered a landslide poll defeat in
Queensland, leaving Gillard with her party governing just two of
the nation’s six states. Labor also holds power in the
Australian Capital Territory, home to the national capital of
Canberra.  Federally, the Northern Territory has two lower house seats
out of 150 nationwide and two senate seats out of 76.  Labor recorded its best performance in an opinion poll in
six months as Gillard seeks to overcome public opposition to her
carbon tax introduced in July, according to a Nielsen poll
published in The Age newspaper today.  The Labor government was favored by 32 percent of voters,
up 2 percentage points from the previous poll, compared with 45
percent for  Tony Abbott ’s Liberal-National opposition coalition,
down two points. Nielsen survyed 1,400 respondents on Aug.
23-25, and didn’t provide a margin of error.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  