-- IAC Agrees to Buy About.com for $300 Million in Cash
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-08-27T20:19:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/iac-said-to-be-buying-about-com-from-times-co-for-300-million.html
Barry Diller ’s  IAC/InterActiveCorp (IACI) 
agreed to buy About.com from  New York Times Co. (NYT)  for $300 million
in cash, letting the company expand its Ask.com informational-
website business.  The transaction is expected to be completed in the next
several weeks, Times Co. said yesterday in a statement. IAC
outbid an earlier $270 million offer from Answers Corp.,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter, who asked
not to be named because the talks were private. Times Co. will
use the proceeds from the deal for general corporate purposes.  “This sale will allow the Times Co. to focus on the
development and growth of our core brands locally, nationally
and on a global scale,” Chairman Arthur Sulzberger Jr. said in
the statement.  About.com, which relies on freelancers to produce stories
and how-to videos on topics such as making a stir-fry or
preventing a tattoo from stretching, has struggled to attract
traffic and advertising dollars. By contrast, New York-based IAC
saw revenue from Ask.com and its other search-related sites
climb 46 percent to $348.8 million last quarter.  IAC will add answers from About.com into searches on
Ask.com, just as it does with free content from Wikipedia, the
online encyclopedia, Chief Financial Officer Jeff Kip said.
That, along with advertising alongside Google searches, will
help revive About.com, he said.  Better Experience?  “Being able to boost this content on the Ask site will
improve the search experience, and then Ask drives more traffic
to About,” he said. “This is a great financial deal.”  IAC came into the deal after an exclusive negotiating
period between Times Co. and Answers.com ended. About.com will
continue to operate separately, with executives reporting to the
head of Ask.com, Kip said.  Times Co. has been unloading businesses and tightening the
focus on its main media brand. It sold its stake in Fenway
Sports Group, owner of the  Boston Red Sox , for $93 million this
year and completed the sale of its regional newspaper division
for $143 million. The publisher still owns the Boston Globe and
Worcester Telegram & Gazette newspapers.  Times Co. purchased About.com for $410 million in 2005. The
website’s revenue fell 8.7 percent to $25.4 million last
quarter, and it posted an operating loss of $186.8 million as
the publisher wrote down the value of the business unit to
$172.5 million.  Match.com, Newsweek  IAC -- founded by Diller, a 70-year-old billionaire -- runs
dating sites Match.com and OKCupid and has a controlling stake
in Newsweek/Daily Beast Co. The About.com business, in addition
to its flagship site, includes ConsumerSearch.com and
CalorieCount.com.  Times Co. said Aug. 8 it was in negotiations to sell
About.com, without giving details. A person with knowledge of
the deal said then that the company was trying to sell the
property to St. Louis-based Answers.  IAC shares  increased less than 1 percent to $51.92 at the
close in  New York . The shares have gained 22 percent so far this
year. Times Co.’s stock slid 1.2 percent to $9.11, cutting its
year-to-date gain to 18 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  