-- Isaac to Drench Florida on Way to Northern Gulf Coast
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-08-26T22:14:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/isaac-to-drench-florida-on-way-to-northern-gulf-coast.html
Tropical Storm Isaac may drop as
much as 10 inches (25 centimeters) of rain on Florida as it
moves into the  Gulf of Mexico  on a course that is expected to
take the system through oil and gas fields and then onto land
near the Louisiana- Mississippi  line.  Isaac passed just south of Key West, Florida, with winds of
60 miles (97 kilometers) per hour as of 5 p.m. New York time,
the National Hurricane Center said in an  advisory . An earlier
forecast that called for Isaac to become a hurricane when it
struck the Keys didn’t materialize.  The center said there is a chance the storm may grow to at
least a Category 2 hurricane with winds of 100 mph before
landfall on Aug. 29.  “Even though I am still nervous about it, I think it is
too big and that will preclude any rapid intensification,” said
 Jim Rouiller , senior energy meteorologist at Planalytics Inc. in
Berwyn, Pennsylvania. “No hurricane is a piece of cake, though.
Every one of these storms represents a different set of
problems.”  Isaac’s threat forced the  Republican Party  to delay its
convention in Tampa. Delegates will convene tomorrow as
scheduled and then recess until the next day to be safe, said Reince Priebus, the Republican National Committee chairman.  Emergencies Declared  Louisiana Governor  Bobby Jindal , citing the uncertainty of
the storm track, followed Florida Governor  Rick Scott  in
declaring a state of emergency.  Isaac is expected to drop 4 to 7 inches of rain across
southern Florida, with some areas receiving as much as 10
inches, according to the hurricane center. Almost 470 flights at
were canceled at Miami International Airport, according to
FlightAware, a Houston-based airline tracking company.  About 24 percent of U.S. oil production and 8.2 percent of
natural-gas output from the Gulf is shut because of Isaac, the
 Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement  said today. The
Gulf is home to 23 percent of U.S. crude production, 7 percent
of natural gas output and 44 percent of refining capacity.  Oil and gas companies including  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) ,
 BP Plc (BP/) , and Chevron Corp. pulled crews from offshore platforms.  The storm’s track has been drifting west from earlier
forecasts that had it hugging Florida’s west coast and making
landfall in the state’s Panhandle. The official track now calls
for Isaac to land near Gulfport, Mississippi, close to where
 Hurricane Katrina  made landfall in 2005.  Predicting Path  Computer forecast models disagree on the storm’s exact
path.  “Because of the wide model spread there continues to be
greater than usual track forecast uncertainty,” Richard Pasch,
a senior hurricane specialist with the center, wrote in a
forecast analysis.  A  hurricane watch  now extends from Indian Pass, Florida, to
east of Morgan City, Louisiana, including  New Orleans , which was
devastated by Katrina in 2005. All hurricane warnings for
southern Florida have been changed to tropical storm bulletins.  While some of the models suggest Isaac may gain a lot of
strength crossing the warm waters of the Gulf, larger storms
often need more time to intensify, Rouiller said. He predicts
Isaac won’t have enough time.  Rouiller said computer models disagree on whether a low-
pressure trough over the U.S. will pull the storm north. Some
models say the trough will act like a conveyor belt and move
Isaac into the coastline nearer Florida’s Panhandle, while
others say “Isaac has missed his ride,” Rouiller said.  Those
models take Isaac closer to New Orleans.  Forecasting the track of a hurricane depends on predicting
what the upper-level winds in the atmosphere will be doing, said
Dan Pydynowski, a senior meteorologist with AccuWeather Inc. in
 State College , Pennsylvania. Hurricanes don’t move under their
own power, they are pulled and pushed by other weather patterns.  “The wind higher-up is what is really steering these
storms,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Asjylyn Loder in  New York  at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 