-- Florida Braces as Isaac Forecast to Hit Keys as Hurricane
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-08-26T12:26:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/isaac-forecast-to-strengthen-into-hurricane-as-florida-braces.html
Tropical Storm Isaac is forecast to
strengthen into a hurricane today as it bears down on the
Florida Keys, disrupting energy output in the Gulf of Mexico and
forcing a delay in the Republican National Convention in Tampa.  The  core of the storm , the season’s ninth named system, is
projected to track across the Straits of Florida and then toward
the southeastern Gulf tomorrow, according to the Miami-based
U.S. National Hurricane Center. Florida Governor  Rick Scott 
declared a statewide emergency, with hurricane warnings in place
for the Keys, Florida Bay and the coastline between Bonita Beach
on the Gulf coast to Golden Beach in the east.  About 8.6 percent of U.S. oil production and 1.6 percent of
natural-gas output from the Gulf is shut because of Isaac, a
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement report showed
yesterday. The Republican convention, at which Mitt Romney is
set to formally become the party’s presidential candidate, will
convene tomorrow as scheduled, and then immediately recess until
the next day. Isaac may make landfall on the Gulf coast midweek.  “The center of Isaac is expected to move just north of the
north coast of Cuba this morning, and move near or over the
Florida Keys today and tonight,” the hurricane center repeated
in an advisory at about 8 a.m. New York time. It will “move
into the eastern  Gulf of Mexico  on Monday.”  Hurricane Warning  Isaac was about 155 miles (249 kilometers) east of Havana,
Cuba, or 135 miles east-southeast of Key West, Florida,
according to the advisory. The storm was moving northwest at 20
miles per hour, with maximum sustained winds of 65 mph (100
kilometers per hour), it said. A hurricane warning means winds
of at least 74 mph will arrive within 36 hours.  The government of the Bahamas downgraded the hurricane
warning for Andros Island to a tropical storm warning and lifted
the tropical storm warning for the central and southeastern
Bahamas, the hurricane center said in its latest advisory.  Scott’s emergency declaration activates the National Guard.
The governor encouraged people planning to attend the convention
to carry on, saying there’s no need to cancel hotel reservations
because of Isaac, according to a statement.  More than 50,000 people are expected to visit the Tampa Bay
area as Republicans hold the meeting, said James Davis, a
convention spokesman. The Tampa Bay Times Forum, site of the
gathering, is in a mandatory-evacuation zone once storms reach
96 mph, or Category 2 on the five-step  Saffir-Simpson scale ,
according to the Hillsborough County Hurricane Guide.  Tampa will probably feel “squally winds” and get as much
as five inches of rain, said  Jim Rouiller , senior energy
meteorologist at Planalytics Inc. in Berwyn, Pennsylvania. “For
Tampa to get catastrophic flooding, the storm would have to move
west to east into the bay, and that is not going to happen.”  BP’s Plans  The Gulf is home to 23 percent of U.S. oil production, 7
percent of natural gas output and 44 percent of the country’s
refining capacity.  BP Plc (BP/)  began evacuating its Thunder Horse platform in the
Gulf on Aug. 24 and suspended crude and natural-gas production
there. The London-based company also plans to remove non-
essential workers from its Na Kika, Horn Mountain and Marlin
platforms, Arturo Silva, a spokesman, said in a statement.  The  Williams Co. (WMB)  was securing the Blind Faith, Devils Tower
and Canyon Station platforms in the eastern Gulf. Based on
Isaac’s projected track, the company may shut the platforms and
evacuate workers, a notice on Williams’s website showed.   Exxon
Mobile Corp., (XOM)   Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Murphy Oil Corp. (MUR) ,  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA) ,  Eni SpA (ENI) ,  Apache Corp. (APA) ,  Diamond Offshore Drilling Inc. (DO)  and
 Ensco Plc (ESV)  said they were evacuating nonessential workers.  Isaac dropped heavy rain in Haiti, where about 500,000
people are still living in temporary housing since a 2010
earthquake. At least three people died in the country, the
Associated Press said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 