-- Israel 2022 Bond Falls as Rates Seen on Hold Amid Faster Growth
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2012-08-26T13:56:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/israel-2022-bond-falls-as-rates-seen-on-hold-amid-faster-growth.html
Israel’s benchmark government bonds
fell, pushing yields higher for the first time in more than a
week, on investor bets the  Bank of Israel  will keep  interest
rates  unchanged tomorrow as economic growth accelerates.  The yield on the 5.5 percent notes due January 2022
increased for the first time since Aug. 16, gaining one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 4.14 percent at the close in
Tel Aviv. The central bank’s monetary policy committee, led by
Governor  Stanley Fischer , will hold interest rates at 2.25
percent, according to 21 out of 25 economists  surveyed  by
 Bloomberg News . Four economists forecast borrowing costs will
fall by 25 basis points.  Israeli economic growth accelerated for the first time in a
year and a half in the second quarter, driven by an increase in
exports and  consumer spending . The economy expanded an
annualized 3.2 percent compared with a revised 2.8 percent in
the first three months of the year, the Jerusalem-based  Central
Bureau of Statistics  said Aug. 16.  “Economic growth in the second quarter was fairly robust
and some of the recent global economic data point to signs of
stability which gives the central bank less of a reason to lower
interest rates tomorrow,” said  Jonathan Katz , a Jerusalem-based
economist for HSBC Holdings Plc. “This environment is pushing
government bond yields up.”  Yields Climb  U.S. consumer spending probably rose in July by the most in
five months, easing concern the biggest part of the economy is
backsliding, economists said before a report this week. About 40
percent of Israel’s gross domestic product is made up of
exports, with the U.S. among the largest markets.  The two-year break-even rate, the yield difference between
the inflation-linked bonds and fixed-rate government bonds of
similar maturity, gained three basis points to 270. That implies
an average annual inflation rate of 2.7 percent over the period.  The Tel Aviv Bond 40 Index, which measures inflation-linked
and fixed-rate corporate bonds, was little changed at 266.88.
Israeli funds raised a net 107 million shekels ($27 million)
from investors in the week ended Aug. 23, Meitav Investment
House Ltd. said today. Investments last week included money-
market funds pulling in 333 million shekels, Tel Aviv-based
Meitav said.  Two-year interest rate swaps , an indicator of investor
expectations for rates over the period, were unchanged at 2.12
percent on Aug. 24. The shekel weakened 0.3 percent to 4.0258
against the dollar, widening this month’s loss to 1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in  Tel Aviv  at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  