-- Manchester City Ties 2-2 at Liverpool in League, Arsenal Draws
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-08-26T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/liverpool-manchester-city-tie-2-2-at-anfield-in-premier-league.html
Defending champion Manchester City
twice recovered from being a goal behind to tie 2-2 at Liverpool
in English soccer’s Premier League yesterday. Stoke City and
Arsenal had a scoreless draw.  Martin Skrtel  and  Luis Suarez  scored for Liverpool, with
Yaya Toure and  Carlos Tevez  getting goals for the visitors at
Anfield, a stadium where City has not won in the league since
May 2003.  “We had a good performance, we played well,” City manager
 Roberto Mancini  told Sky Sports. “When you don’t win you’re
always disappointed, but it’s always hard to play at Anfield.”  Chelsea, the only team to have played three matches, tops
the standings with nine points, while Swansea and Everton have
six points from two games. West Bromwich Albion and City follow
with four points, Stoke and Arsenal are 11th and 12th with two
points, with Liverpool in 16th after its first point.  Liverpool suffered an early injury blow, with Lucas pulling
a muscle after four minutes. Jonjo Shelvey replaced the
Brazilian in midfield.  The home team had an opportunity to take the lead on 18
minutes. Raheem Sterling, a 17-year-old winger making his first
league start, crossed toward Fabio Borini, who struck his shot
just past the post.  A minute later, City came even closer when Tevez slipped a
shot past goalkeeper Pepe Reina only for the ball to roll along
the line before hitting the far post. Reina recovered to gather.  Balotelli Chance  Liverpool continued to hold most of the possession,
although City should have done better on a breakaway after 32
minutes when  Mario Balotelli  fired high over the bar when he had
teammates in support.  Almost immediately at the other end of the field a Steven Gerrard cross was almost deflected into his own net by City
captain  Vincent Kompany .  From the resulting corner, Skrtel made a late burst into
the penalty area to power a header past  Joe Hart .  City introduced  Jack Rodwell  and Edin Dzeko for Samir Nasri
and Balotelli early in the second half and was level on 63
minutes. Tevez battled his way into the area and hit a cross
that Reina failed to gather. The ball then hit defender  Martin
Kelly  and dropped for Toure to score.  Parity lasted for three minutes before Suarez curled a 30-
yard (27 meter) free kick around the defensive wall and into the
bottom corner of the net.  Skrtel’s Error  City earned a point with 10 minutes remaining following a
back pass by Skrtel that was intercepted by Tevez. The striker
took the ball around Reina to slide in his 100th goal for
English clubs.  City has trailed at some point during all three of its
matches this season. Unlike the 3-2 victories against Chelsea in
the Community Shield and Southampton in the league, it was
unable to secure a winning goal yesterday.  “Sometimes the best team can’t always win but if you don’t
win it’s important you don’t lose,” Liverpool manager  Brendan
Rodgers  told reporters.  At the Britannia Stadium, Arsenal had its second straight
scoreless draw. The Gunners and Stoke, which has also tied both
of its games this season, struggled to create chances.  “We lost two points again,” Arsenal midfielder Mikel Arteta told Sky Sports.  Arsenal, which was rarely troubled in defense, has yet to
score since the sale of  Robin van Persie , who led the league
with 30 goals last season.  Arsenal Chances  Olivier Giroud and  Lukas Podolski , two of Arsenal’s new
attacking signings, started. Giroud had his best effort from a
long-range lob after 89 minutes that just cleared the crossbar.  Podolski had an effort early in the game blocked by Andy Wilkinson, while Santi Cazorla tested goalkeeper Asmir Begovic
from 25 yards. Abou Diaby failed to score from close range.  Stoke, the lowest-scoring team in the league last season,
had a goal ruled out for offside on six minutes when  Jonathan
Walters  put the ball into the net. Walters also had a late
opportunity that he failed to convert.  Two days ago, Chelsea defeated Newcastle 2-0, Everton won
3-1 at Aston Villa, Swansea beat West Ham 3-0, and Manchester
United won 3-2 against Fulham.  Wigan beat Southampton 2-0, Tottenham tied 1-1 against West
Brom, while Norwich and Queens Park Rangers drew 1-1. The match
between Sunderland and Reading was postponed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 