-- Japanese, Australian Stock Futures Advance on Stimulus
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-08-26T23:06:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/japanese-australian-stock-futures-advance-on-stimulus.html
Japanese and Australian stock
futures rose as China’s Premier  Wen Jiabao  and Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  reassured investors that central banks
will move to boost growth in the world’s two largest economies.  Toll Holdings Ltd. (TOL)  may be active as Australia’s largest
trucking company reported full-year profit that missed analyst
estimates. Shares of  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028)  may be
active in Hong Kong after Asia’s biggest refiner, also known as
Sinopec, posted its lowest half-yearly profit since 2008.  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring next
month closed at 9,115 in Chicago on Aug. 24, up from 9,110 in
Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 9,120 in Osaka
at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index advanced 0.6 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
rose 0.2 percent in Wellington. Investors are awaiting comments
from Bernanke as U.S. policymakers meet on Aug. 30 for an annual
summit in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming.  “Clearly the chances of further quantitative easing are
higher than they were six months ago,” said George Boubouras,
Melbourne-based head of investment strategy at UBS AG’s
Australian wealth management unit. “The market is looking to
Bernanke’s speech at Jackson Hole for additional guidance on
policy.” The Swiss bank has about $1.5 trillion in assets under
management.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  climbed 10 percent from a June
low through Aug. 24 on bets monetary authorities in the U.S.,
Europe and China will take action to boost slowing economic
growth. Stocks on the index were valued at 12.6 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 13.7 for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and 11.6 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chinese Stimulus  Premier Wen urged extra measures to support Chinese exports
and help meet economic targets as evidence mounts that the
nation’s slowdown is deepening.  “The third quarter is a crucial period for realizing full-
year targets on export growth,” Wen said during an inspection
tour of Guangdong, the nation’s biggest exporting province, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported on Aug. 25. “Facing the
current difficulties, China should substantially improve the
environment for companies’ operation and improve companies’
confidence.”  Bernanke, speaking in a letter dated Aug. 22 to California
Republican  Darrell Issa , repeated the statement from the  Federal
Open Market Committee ’s Aug. 1 meeting that the Fed will provide
“additional accommodation as needed.”  Futures on the  S&P 500  advanced 0.2 percent today. The
gauge last week snapped a six-week gain amid concern European
leaders may fail to tame the region’s debt crisis. The MSCI Asia
Pacific Index declined for the first week in four.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. slid 1.6 percent last week to
89.73, the biggest drop since the week ended July 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  