-- Japanese Home Purchases Rise Before Corolla-Size Tax: Mortgages
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2012-08-27T09:26:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/japanese-home-purchases-rise-before-corolla-size-tax-mortgages.html
Record low  mortgage rates  and the
prospect of a  consumption tax  increase that will add the price
of a new Toyota Corolla to the cost of an average home spurred
Sumiko Morigaki into action.  “Tax hikes have been looming, so that gave me a push to
buy,” said Morigaki, 43, a manager at an apparel retailer in
 Tokyo , who bought a three-bedroom condominium in Kanagawa
prefecture, neighboring Tokyo, earlier this year.  New housing loans  jumped  14.7 percent in the second quarter
this year from a year ago, the most since March 2006, buoying a
housing market entering its third decade of deflation. About 1.3
trillion yen ($16.5 billion) of extra home purchases are
expected by the end of March 2014, in the year when the  sales
tax  increases to 8 percent from 5 percent, according to
estimates by NLI Research Institute, a Tokyo-based research and
consulting unit of Nippon Life Insurance Co.  “The housing market has been dead for so long it shouldn’t
take much to put a flame under it,” said  Nicholas Smith , a
strategist at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets Ltd. in Tokyo. “Banks,
particularly regional banks, stand to benefit from the rush of
home loans ahead of the tax hike.”  Housing investments rose 3.8 percent to 13.1 trillion yen
in the fiscal year ended March 31, marking the first increase in
five years, according to government data.  Japan ’s banks offered
2.98 trillion yen worth of  new loans  for home purchases in the
three months ended June 30, bringing loans outstanding to 107.1
trillion yen, according to the Bank of Japan.  An  index  of residential land prices has slid by half from
its 1991 peak, Japan Real Estate Institute data show.  Banks Dominate  Commercial banks accounted for the biggest share of new
loans by lender type, making up 66 percent in the first three
quarters of the fiscal year that started April 2011, followed by
Japan Housing Finance Agency which constituted 15 percent,
according to a July 23 report from  Standard & Poor’s . The rest
came from other financial institutions, according to S&P.  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  in August won parliamentary
approval for his bill to double the country’s sales tax of 5
percent for the first time since 1997, to lessen the
government’s reliance on debt. Property and fund association
groups are asking for a reduction of taxes on home purchases to
counter an expected slowdown after the increase in the levy.  The bill raises the tax to 8 percent in April 2014 and to
10 percent in 2015. A clause allows for implementation to be
canceled based on an assessment of economic conditions.  Last Increase  Ahead of the last increase to the tax to the current 5
percent, from 3 percent, at the start of the Asian financial
crisis in 1997, housing investments in Japan surged to almost 28
trillion yen in April 1996, according to NLI Research. Last-
minute buying of houses ahead of that tax increase was about 2.4
trillion yen.  The peak for such last-minute buying demand this time
around may come in the fourth quarter of 2013, said Taro Saito,
Tokyo-based director of economic research at NLI. Developers and
construction companies will probably benefit the most from the
increase in demand for housing, he said.  The 44-member  Topix Real Estate Index (TPREAL) , which tracks Japan’s
property companies, has returned 30 percent this year, making it
the best performer among the 33 industry groups in the stock
benchmark.  Sumitomo Realty & Development Co. (8830)  and  Tokyu Land Corp. (8815) 
are among the top 10 performers. The property index today fell
0.4 percent at the close after rising as much as 1.3 percent.  History shows the boost may be temporary: Japan entered a
20-month recession after the tax was raised in 1997. Housing
investments declined to about 19 trillion yen a year after the
initial surge, according to NLI, using government data.  Regional Banks  Japan’s regional banks, which rely on home loans for a
larger slice of their profits compared with the nation’s biggest
banks, may get the biggest boost from a lending binge, said
Shinichi Ina, a Tokyo-based bank analyst at UBS AG.  “Expectations are rising that mortgage lending will
increase ahead of the tax increase,” Ina said. “Regional banks
that have been centering their businesses in housing loans may
see more benefits.”  Regional banks, including  77 Bank Ltd. (8341)  and  Shizuoka Bank
Ltd. (8355) , stand to outperform, said CLSA’s Smith in a report dated
June 25. The biggest banks underperformed from April 1996 to
April 1998, when the consumption tax was raised last time, he
said.  Buildings are subject to the tax, while land isn’t. For a
condominium worth 46 million yen -- the average for new
apartments in the Tokyo metropolitan area -- the levy will rise
to 2.3 million yen, from the current 1.15 million yen, in three
years, supposing that half the apartment price, excluding the
land value, is subject to the sales tax. The price of a Toyota
Motor Corp. 2012 Corolla sedan starts at about 1.38 million yen
in Japan.  Record Rates  The  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s policy to maintain rates near zero as
it struggles to spur the world’s third-largest economy has
already benefited homeowners. Japan’s  benchmark 10-year yield 
fell to a nine-year low of 0.72 percent on July 23, and remains
the third-lowest globally after yields in  Switzerland  and  Hong
Kong . The rate was at 0.81 percent today.  Tracking the benchmark bond yield, mortgage rates have
declined to record lows. The 30-year fixed-rate mortgage offered
by Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. was at 2.4 percent in
August,  according to  the bank. That compares with the average
30-year fixed-rate mortgage of 3.66 percent in the U.S.,
according to a  Freddie Mac index .  The index measuring the number of potential home buyers
visiting apartment showrooms increased to 51.7 points as of
April 1 from minus 21.2 on Jan. 1, suggesting increased appetite
for purchases, according to a survey based on 32 property
companies by the  Land Institute of Japan .  “Given the hike this time is 5 percentage points not 2
percentage points, the pre-buying is likely to be substantially
larger,” CLSA’s Smith said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Singapore at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  