-- Kloppers Sees Long-Term Price Decline for BHP’s Commodities
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2012-08-26T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/kloppers-sees-long-term-price-decline-for-bhp-s-commodities.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
biggest mining company, expects “long-term” price declines for
its commodities as slower economic expansion in  China  weighs on
demand, Chief Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers  said.  “We go through a pretty rigorous process to pick those
long-term prices,” Kloppers told the Inside Business program on
the Australian Broadcasting Corp. “They are, by and large,
lower. Some products are going to be more attractive than
others.”  BHP last week put on hold approvals for about $68 billion
of projects, including the Olympic Dam expansion in  South
Australia  after second-half profit slumped. Kloppers said on
yesterday’s program he’s seeking to control costs and won’t
allocate new capital to industries such as aluminum and nickel
as Melbourne-based BHP narrows its exploration focus.  Australia ’s economy has been bolstered in recent years by
the biggest resources bonanza since a gold rush in the 1850s on
Chinese-led demand for iron ore, coal and natural gas. Mining
investment will peak within two years,  Reserve Bank  of Australia
Governor  Glenn Stevens  said Aug. 24 in semiannual testimony at
parliament in Canberra, a day after Resources Minister  Martin Ferguson  said the boom was over.  BHP, which this month wrote down the value of Western
Australia nickel operations and U.S. shale gas assets by $3.3
billion, is now only exploring for oil, gas and copper, Kloppers
said on the program.  Along with coal and iron ore, those five products are the
primary profit drivers at BHP, he said. Potash, a form of
potassium used to strengthen roots and help plants resist
drought, may join that group as BHP develops its Canadian
projects, he said.  Falling Stock  Shares of BHP have fallen 3.9 percent this year, trailing
the 7.2 percent gain by Australia’s benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index.  Prices will decline in the long term “across the product
suite,” Kloppers said. “That is what we have assumed in our
planning processes for the last couple of years and we see no
reason to change that.”  As China’s economic growth slows, demand for BHP’s products
will rise at a slower pace, Kloppers said.  China, the world’s second-largest economy, expanded 7.6
percent in the second quarter, the slowest pace in three years.
 Brazil ’s Vale SA, the biggest  iron-ore  producer, said this month
that China’s “golden years” are gone.  Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan said prices are only part
of the country’s resources bonanza and declines don’t signal the
end of the boom.  Three Booms  “The mining boom is perhaps better understood as a series
of booms - a boom in prices, a boom in investment and a boom in
exports,” Swan said in his weekly economic note yesterday.
“While the price boom has passed its peak, the investment boom
still has some way to run. As the investment phase eventually
winds down, the mining export boom should be ramping up.”  Kloppers said there are still “attractive opportunities”
for BHP and the Australian company plans to increase capital
expenditure this year compared with last year.  BHP should be able to sell its commodities in greater
quantities even as prices fall, he said.  Volumes across the group should increase about 10 percent
in each of the next two years, he told the program. BHP plans to
expand the capacity of its Queensland coal business 50 percent
in the next two years and the output of the Escondida copper
mine, the world’s largest, by the same amount, he said.  BHP quit titanium minerals in February after agreeing to
sell its stake in Richards Bay Minerals to Rio Tinto Group.
Kloppers said in February that BHP was “inching closer” to a
similar decision on the diamond industry.  “We will only exit if we get value for the assets,” he
said on yesterday’s Inside Business program. “What we’ve done
up until now is just to say, ‘We will not spend new capital on
those projects and that is pretty much the case for aluminum. It
is also the case for nickel.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  