-- NATO Airstrike in Afghanistan Kills Pakistan Taliban Leader
-- B y   P a u l   T i g h e
-- 2012-08-26T19:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/nato-airstrike-in-afghanistan-kills-pakistan-taliban-leader.html
A NATO airstrike in  Afghanistan 
killed a leader of  Pakistan ’s Tehrik-i-Taliban militant group,
the  International Security Assistance Force  said.  Maulawi Dadullah was among insurgents killed in the eastern
province of Kunar, ISAF said in an e-mail  statement  at the
weekend. Dadullah’s deputy, known as Shakir, was among those
killed in the raid in the Shigal wa Sheltan district on Aug. 24,
it said.  Dadullah “was responsible for the movement of fighters and
weapons, as well as attacks against Afghan and coalition
forces,” ISAF said, according to the statement. Ten other
militants were killed in the attack about 15 kilometers (9.3
miles) from Afghanistan’s border with Pakistan, the  Associated
Press  reported.  Taliban militants earlier this month stormed Pakistan’s
main air force base near the capital, Islamabad, in at least the
third attack in the Punjab region since Pakistan ended a seven-
month ban on the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation’s use of
supply routes into Afghanistan.  Pakistan has told U.S. military officials it’s preparing a
new operation against the Taliban in North Waziristan, a tribal
region bordering Afghanistan from where gunmen, including the
Haqqani network, operate and attack western forces involved in
the Afghan conflict, AP reported on Aug. 14, citing U.S. Defense
Secretary  Leon Panetta .  Dadullah, who was commander of the Taliban in Pakistan’s
Bajur region, was replaced by Maulana Abu Bakar, AP cited a
Pakistan Taliban spokesman, Ahsanullah Ahsan, as saying
yesterday.  Pakistani intelligence officers are investigating whether
Badruddin Haqqani, the son of Jalaluddin Haqqani, the founder of
the militant group, was killed in a U.S. drone strike last week,
AP reported Aug. 25, citing unidentified officials in the
country. His death may have occurred in an Aug. 21 raid in North
Waziristan, AP said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Tighe in Sydney at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  