-- Novartis Drug May Improve Function in Heart Failure
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-08-26T11:46:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/novartis-drug-may-improve-function-in-heart-failure.html
Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s experimental heart-
failure drug showed signs of restoring the organ’s function more
than the Swiss company’s bestselling Diovan pill, a study found.  In a trial among 301 patients, the drug known as LCZ696 –-
a combination of Diovan and a new therapy -- lowered levels of a
tell-tale chemical associated with heart stress 23 percent more
than Diovan alone after 12 weeks of treatment, according to data
 presented  at a cardiology conference in Munich today. The study
was part of the second of three phases of human testing usually
needed for regulatory approval to market a medicine.  If successful, LCZ696 would be the first drug for patients
with preserved ejection fraction, a condition in which the
organ’s ventricles still pump out more than 40 percent of the
blood that comes in, but the atrium chamber fails to supply
enough blood to the ventricle to meet the body’s needs. The
condition, which mainly affects women, accounts for about half
of all heart failure patients.  “They wanted to see if there was any signal before they
designed a big trial,” Mariell Jessup, president-elect of the
 American Heart Association , said in an interview in Munich.
“This probably does say we should do a bigger trial.”  While the company-funded study didn’t test whether the drug
actually gave the patients better functioning hearts, Novartis
is considering the next steps for the treatment, said Laurie
Letvak, head of development for the Basel, Switzerland-based
drugmaker’s critical-care unit. Novartis will make a decision
later this year or early next year, she said.  Reduced Protein  The disease is marked by an increase in a protein called
NT-proBNP. The results of the 301-patient trial, presented at
the  European Society of Cardiology ’s meeting in Munich today,
will be published in The Lancet medical journal.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  would want evidence
that the drug actually improves patients’ health before
approving it, Jessup said.  “We haven’t had a trial with a BNP endpoint before,”
Jessup said. “I don’t think the Food and Drug Administration
would allow” approval on that result alone.  The difference between the two groups wasn’t statistically
significant after 36 weeks of treatment. That’s because while
patients on LCZ696 maintained lower levels of the protein, those
getting Diovan experienced more of a decrease between the weeks
of 12 and 36, Letvak said.  Further testing should be done on the medicine, Scott
Solomon, director of noninvasive cardiology at Brigham and
Women’s Hospital in  Boston , said at the meeting today.  “We always need trials of epic dimensions to prove
safety,” said Solomon, the study’s lead author.  Diovan, which is approved for treating high  blood pressure ,
generated almost $5.7 billion in sales for Novartis last year.
The drug is also known as valsartan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  