-- Oil Rises as Isaac Shuts Output; Gasoline Gains on Refinery Fire
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2012-08-27T12:51:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/oil-climbs-first-time-in-three-days-as-storm-shuts-gulf-output.html
Oil climbed the most in a week and
gasoline rose to the highest in almost four months as Tropical
Storm Isaac strengthened, crimping output in the  Gulf of Mexico ,
and a fire in Venezuela shut part of the world’s No. 2 refinery.  West Texas Intermediate futures climbed as much as 1.6
percent in New York and gasoline surged 4.1 percent. The storm
is expected to become a hurricane in “a day or so” as it
approaches the northern  Gulf coast , the U.S. National Hurricane
Center said today. Isaac has shut about 24 percent of U.S. oil
production and 8.2 percent of natural-gas output from the Gulf,
the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement said
yesterday. Firefighters in Venezuela are working to quench fires
at two  storage tanks  after a gas explosion at the Amuay plant,
part of the Paraguana complex, killed at least 39 people.  “Oil is higher as the tropical storm is expected to shut
in oil in the Gulf of Mexico almost entirely in coming days,”
said  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt.
“The market is reacting to this temporary supply risk, which
will lead to a drop in U.S. inventories. The temporary shutdown
of refineries in the Gulf will also lower gasoline supplies.”  Oil for October delivery increased as much as $1.57 to
$97.72 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $97.28 at 1:37 p.m. London time. Front-month
prices gained 0.2 percent last week, closing at $96.15 on Aug.
24, and are down 1.4 percent this year.  Brent oil for October settlement rose 38 cents, or 0.3
percent, to $113.97 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark grade’s premium to WTI
was at $16.60, compared with $17.44 on Aug. 24.  Stalled Rally  Oil’s rally in New York may stall around $98.39 a barrel
along a downward-sloping trend line going back to the 2012
intraday high of March 1, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Sell orders tend to be clustered near chart-
resistance levels. Crude’s 14-day relative strength index is
also approaching 70, a reading that signals futures have risen
too quickly for further gains to be sustainable.  Energy companies including  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) 
and  ConocoPhillips (COP)  said yesterday that they evacuated personnel
as Isaac approached. The Gulf is home to 23 percent of U.S. oil
production, 7 percent of natural-gas output and 44 percent of
refining capacity, according to the U.S. Energy Department.  The  Louisiana Offshore Oil Port , the single largest entry
point for crude coming into the U.S., plans to suspend
offloading of  oil tankers , Barb Hestermann, a spokeswoman for
the port, said Aug. 25. Between 900,000 and 1 million barrels of
oil a day is offloaded at the LOOP, she said.  Hurricane Warning  Isaac is about 180 miles (290 kilometers) southwest of  Fort
Myers , Florida, with top sustained winds of 65 miles per hour,
the hurricane center said in an advisory at 5 a.m. today in
Miami. It’s moving west-northwest at about 14 mph and is
expected to become a hurricane in “a day or so” as it
approaches the northern Gulf Coast. A hurricane warning is in
effect from east of  Morgan City , Louisiana, through Mississippi
and Alabama to Destin, Florida. The center issued a  hurricane
watch  from Intracoastal City, Lousiana, to Morgan City.  In Venezuela, the Amuay plant, with capacity to process
645,000 barrels of oil a day, was halted as a result of the
explosion on Aug. 25, according to Oil Minister  Rafael Ramirez .
The Paraguana complex has a capacity of about 950,000 barrels a
day, the world’s second-biggest after  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) ’s
Jamnagar refinery in India, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Processing units at the facility about 240 miles west of
Caracas sustained no structural damage, and production will
resume within two days after the fires are out, Ramirez said.  Price Squeeze  The refinery halt in Venezuela should lead to “a temporary
squeeze on prices,” said  Jonathan Barratt , chief executive
officer of Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity newsletter in Sydney,
who forecasts WTI has resistance at $98.50 a barrel.  The fire highlights the risk to supplies of oil products
from large, ageing plants and may lead to more exports from Asia
to the U.S., according to  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   Major refinery fires in other parts of the world caused
months of delays before full operations resumed, Nilesh Banerjee, a Mumbai-based analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
said in an e-mailed note. The Venezuelan plant exports 360,000
barrels a day of gasoline to the eastern U.S., Banerjee said.  Arbitrage Trades  “In a scenario where Amuay’s exports decline, we could see
arbitrage trade open up for gasoline cargoes from Asia to move
towards the U.S.,” Banerjee said in the report. “We believe
this would impact Asian gasoline/naphtha cracks. Moreover, the
U.S. distillate market remains relatively tight, and any demand
from Venezuela could impact regional dynamics.”  Gasoline for September delivery rose as much as 12.7 cents
to $3.205 a gallon on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the
highest level since April 30.  The  International Energy Agency , adviser to 28 energy-
consuming nations, said in a statement on Aug. 24 that
conditions that would warrant a release of strategic stocks
“are not yet present.” The Obama administration is monitoring
oil markets and a release from the nation’s Strategic Petroleum
Reserve remains an option if prices rise or supply is disrupted,
 Josh Earnest , a White House spokesman, said Aug. 17.  Hedge funds  raised bullish bets on oil to a three-month
high in the week ended Aug. 27, according to the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission’s Commitments of Traders report on
Aug. 24. Money managers increased net-long positions, or wagers
on rising prices, by 18 percent to the highest level since the
week ended May 1, the report showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Ayesha Daya in Dubai 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  