-- Republicans Sharpen Focus on Economy Ahead of Convention
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-08-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/republicans-tout-economic-focus-as-party-convention-looms.html
Republicans sought to portray their
party as the best option to revamp the  U.S. economy  while
denouncing President  Barack Obama ’s record ahead of the
 Republican National Convention , which begins this week.  Voters care about the “economic and fiscal crisis,”
Governor  Scott Walker  of  Wisconsin  said on CNN’s “ State of the
Union ” broadcast yesterday. “That’s what Mitt Romney and  Paul Ryan  bring to the table,” he said, referring to the party’s
presumptive presidential and vice presidential nominees,
respectively.  Obama and the Democrats want the campaign to be about
“anything but the administration’s record,” said former
Mississippi Governor  Haley Barbour  on CBS’s “Face the Nation”
broadcast. The election is “a referendum on Obama,” he said.  Republicans have portrayed Romney and Ryan as the
candidates with the experience and vision to boost economic
growth and establish fiscal discipline. Romney, a former
Massachusetts governor, made a fortune in the private sector,
and Ryan, a congressman from Wisconsin, has introduced a plan on
 Capitol Hill  to reduce federal spending and reform Medicare and
Social Security.  “This should be a campaign of substance and big things
rather than distractions and little things,”  Jeb Bush , the
Republican former governor of  Florida , said on NBC’s “Meet the
Press” broadcast. Romney is a “practical person who’s had life
experience based on solving problems,” he said.  Obama “can’t look at the American people with a straight
face and say, ‘You are better off today than you were four years
ago,’” Senator Marco Rubio, a Florida Republican, said on the
CBS Sunday morning program.  Campaign’s ‘Divisiveness’  “I want to make sure that we get the country back on
track,” Romney said in an interview on “Fox News Sunday.”
Democrats led by Obama have run a campaign that has “been about
dividing the American people,” he said. The “character
assassination and divisiveness” of the president’s re-election
bid diverge from the message of hope and change in Obama’s 2008
campaign, he said.  The Republican convention, which was set to begin in Tampa,
Florida, today, has been delayed by a day as inclement weather
as Tropical Storm Isaac bears down upon the state.  Fixing the Economy  Most of the business of the convention will be conducted
tomorrow instead of today, and once the event gets under way,
voters will see that Romney is more capable of leading the
nation to economic prosperity, according to Republican National
Committee Chairman Reince Priebus.  “We’re still going to prosecute the president on what he
promised and what he delivered,” Priebus said on CNN’s “State
of the Union” show. “We need someone to fix the economy and
 Mitt Romney  is the one that can do it.”  Voters will also learn about who Romney is as a person, as
a husband and father, Priebus said.  While the U.S. unemployment rate was at 8.3 percent in
July, Democrats have highlighted Romney’s wealth. Romney, the
son of a Michigan governor, has also ascribed to “extreme
positions” taken by some members of his party, Obama said in an
interview with the  Associated Press , published Aug. 25.  Obama was “the first post-Watergate candidate for
president who said he was going to push aside the federal
spending limits and spend an unlimited amount based on what he
could raise,” Romney said of campaign financing during the Fox
broadcast. “I would far rather have a setting where we had both
agreed to the federal spending limits.”  Romney Interview  “Fox News Sunday” interviewed Romney with his wife, Ann,
at their house in  New Hampshire , emphasizing the candidate’s
private side. The family, which divides up household chores,
doesn’t have servants there, and Romney cooks, shops and irons
his own shirt, according to his wife.  Republicans are seeking to appeal to a broad spectrum of
voters and distance themselves from comments made earlier this
month made by Representative Todd Akin of  Missouri , whose
comments about rape earlier this month sparked a controversy.  Priebus reiterated his calls for Akin to drop out of the
Missouri race for Senate.  ‘Biologically Stupid’  “I call it biologically stupid,” Priebus said, referring
to Akin’s mistake, adding it could “absolutely” cost the
Republicans control of the Senate.  Romney called the remarks “outrageous,” saying that the
party has encouraged Akin to drop his Senate bid.  Virginia Governor  Bob McDonnell , chairman of the Republican
Platform Committee, defended the party’s stance on not making
exceptions on abortion even for rape victims, saying the
amendment didn’t make any judgments and left the details to the
states and the people.  “The real point is, we are affirming that we’re a pro-life
party,” McDonnell said on ABC’s “This Week.”  McDonnell said Democrats want to draw voters’ attention
away from the President’s record on the economy.  Walker, the Wisconsin governor, said there are
misconceptions that women or Hispanics only care about certain
issues and that other things don’t matter to them.  “We need to stop siloing voters,” and instead ask them
what they really care about, Walker said on CNN’s “State of the
Union” broadcast.  Kay Bailey Hutchison , a Republican Senator from  Texas , said
her party needs to lay out its principles and welcome people of
different views.  “We can disagree on any number of issues,” Hutchison said
on CNN’s “State of the Union” broadcast. “But if you want to
be a Republican we welcome you. And I think we do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  