-- Republicans Should Stop Talking About Moocher Class
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-08-26T22:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/republicans-should-stop-talking-about-moocher-class.html
As Republicans gather this week in
Tampa,  Florida , to nominate  Mitt Romney  for president, they will
try to tilt the national mood-o-meter toward limited government,
individual liberties and free markets.  These are the estimable principles that have animated
Republicans for generations. It’s the  Tea Party  with the rough
edges sanded down. Or is it?  As we listen to Republican candidates and voters across the
country, we hear something less admirable: carping about people
who are on government support. Some  speak disparagingly  of them
as the “moocher class” for paying no federal income taxes
while getting food stamps, government health care and
unemployment checks.  President  Barack Obama , the plaint goes, has gutted the
1996 welfare-reform law’s work requirements. Television ads for
Romney and stump speeches by his running mate, U.S.
Representative  Paul Ryan , promote the Obama-ruined-welfare-
reform idea daily. Radio talk-show hosts and conservative
bloggers refer to Obama’s call for higher taxes on the rich as a
war on the productive class. Smart executives accuse Obama of
being a closet socialist, siphoning off their money to give to
the slackers.  To all of the above, the moocher class -- this election
year’s agitprop -- is the country’s biggest problem. It’s not.
By claiming that it is, Republicans do a disservice to the party
and to the national debate.  Small Beer  The U.S. in fiscal 2012 will spend about $210 billion on
food stamps,  unemployment  insurance and welfare. Add in Medicaid
and the tab swells to about $485 billion. Still, it’s small beer
compared with the $1.3 trillion the U.S. will spend on Social
Security and Medicare alone. Include $700 billion for defense,
and the moocher class’s bounty looks even smaller.  And that doesn’t account for the ample government benefits
--  farm subsidies , oil and gas allowances, and other corporate
welfare -- many moocher-class critics get, or the tax breaks for
mortgage interest, employer-provided health insurance and
charitable contributions.  The moocher-class mythologists forget that the U.S. just
went through its worst recession in 75 years, and that
unemployment has exceeded 8 percent for almost four years. The
U.S. is on the verge of having a permanent jobless class made up
largely of middle-age workers whose occupations have been
destroyed because of automation and globalization.  The moocher fabulists also ignore  data  showing that U.S.
incomes have stagnated for a decade, and that inequality has
skyrocketed. The top-earning 1 percent of households now bring
home about 20 percent of total income, versus about 10 percent
in 1970. Recent studies conclude that upward mobility is easier
in  Europe  than in the U.S. So much for Republican nightmares
about the U.S. becoming a European-style welfare state.  The Pew Research Center  reported  last week that the U.S.
middle class just experienced a lost decade, shrinking for the
first time since World War II. Its median  household income  fell
4.8 percent to $69,487 in 2010 from an inflation-adjusted
$72,956 in 2001. Median wealth (including retirement savings and
home values, minus debt) tumbled an even greater 28 percent, to
$93,150 from $129,582, largely because of the housing crash.  Another party  shibboleth  is that Obama’s stimulus spending
shifted wealth from “makers to takers.” It’s more accurate to
say that the stimulus -- by most economists’ reckoning, required
medicine -- was a giant earmarking exercise that sent tax
dollars back to the districts of lawmakers in both parties.
Without it, an economy that  shrank 6.3 percent  in 2008 would
have fallen into an abyss.  Economic Decline  At any rate, increased federal spending under Obama isn’t
the major cause of the deficit. Nor are the Bush-era tax cuts
and the Iraq and Afghanistan wars, as Democrats believe. As a
Bloomberg Government  study  shows, the rise in the deficit --
from an average of 1.9 percent of gross domestic product in the
pre-crisis years (2005 to 2007) to 9.3 percent of GDP post-
crisis (2009-2011) -- is almost entirely due to the economic
decline, which drove down tax receipts and pushed up spending on
unemployment,  food stamps  and other support programs.  Lastly, it’s incorrect to say Obama undermined welfare
reform.  Temporary Aid to Needy Families , as it’s formally known,
is a $16.5 billion block grant to the states, only 40 percent of
which goes toward benefits. In July, Obama invited states to
apply for  waivers  that would give them greater flexibility to
design programs that promote employment, while relieving them
from some paperwork requirements. If granted, states would still
have to move adults into jobs within two years and cap lifetime
benefits (usually five years). Anyway, don’t Republicans
normally applaud block grants that come with fewer federal
strings?  Instead of worrying about the rise of a moocher class,
Republicans would be better off thinking up ways to improve the
standard of living for the next generation, and making sure the
benefits of economic growth are more widely shared. That means
vastly improving education and transportation, on which the
private sector depends. It involves figuring out how to control
health-care costs and means-testing  Social Security  and Medicare
so the wealthy receive less and pay more. It means reconfiguring
our system of national defense.  It also means a change in mindset. The party can’t cling to
the one solution -- tax cuts -- that has been its cure-all for
decades. Yes, we all love tax cuts, but they benefit mostly the
rich. Besides, federal income taxes are at the lowest level
since the 1950s.  At a time when the U.S. can borrow for 10 years at about
1.6 percent, and when 12.8 million people are  unemployed  (and 8
million more part-timers would prefer full-time work), we would
be out of our minds not to borrow and spend to fix problems and
give the economy a kick in the pants. A serious, long-term
austerity diet can follow later.  At this moment in U.S. history, leadership doesn’t require
shrinking government immediately, but seeing that Big Government
doesn’t remain permanent. The moochers -- and some of them may
be waving Romney-Ryan signs in the convention hall -- would love
to work with the party on that.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the abuse of  drug users in
China and Southeast Asia ; William D. Cohan on former executives
 wanting higher taxes ;  Noah Feldman  on why  colleges need
affirmative action ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  Mitt Romney and the
movement conservatives ;  Stephen Smith  on the exorbitant costs of
 U.S. mass transit projects .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 