-- Romney May Signal End of Establishment Republicans’ Rule
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2012-08-26T15:02:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/romney-may-signal-end-of-establishment-republicans-rule.html
Ever since  Ronald Reagan , the
Republican Party has moved steadily to the right. Yet in Tampa
this week, for the seventh consecutive time, Republicans will
nominate a mainstream presidential candidate after rejecting
movement conservatives.  No one would confuse Willard Mitt Romney with a populist or
movement conservative; he oozes establishment. So did the other
presidential nominees since Reagan, both Presidents Bush,  Bob Dole  and  John McCain .  Like those predecessors, Romney calculated the formula for
winning the nomination, says  Jack Pitney , a political science
professor at Claremont McKenna College, and an academic
authority on the Republican Party: “Just conservative enough to
get moderate traditionalists and a chunk of movement
conservatives.”  That, he recalls, was the model  George H.W. Bush 
inaugurated in 1988. In fact, Pitney says, “Romney reminds me a
lot of that President Bush, minus the war heroism.”  Is this formula permanent or is it ephemeral?  Vin Weber, a former congressman from Minnesota and a
Republican luminary, believes it may be more deeply ingrained.
“Reagan believed in a mixed system, conservative but with an
appreciation of the safety net, a coherent governing
philosophy,” he says. “What most Americans want is an
activist, limited government.”  Maturing Movement  Not so, says Richard Viguerie, one of the oldest veterans
of the right-wing movement: “This is the last time the
establishment will have operational control of a convention,”
the 78-year-old activist proclaims. The grass-roots,
ideologically driven base typified by the Tea Party movement, he
says, is maturing into full control.  The establishment Republicans generally hold more moderate
views, some having grown up in the party, others coming from
business, and with a general appreciation of an “activist,
limited government.”  Movement conservatives are motivated by ideology, sometimes
small-government economics, other times the religious social
agenda. They range from  Paul Ryan , the small-government,
economic policy-savvy vice-presidential candidate, to Todd Akin,
the Missouri Senate contender who last week suggested that it is
rare for women to become pregnant as a result of rape, saying
“If it’s a legitimate rape, the female body has ways to try to
shut that whole thing down.”  From Washington to the state capitals to the local level,
the movement conservatives are in the ascendancy. For years, the
Republican base was divided; it’s now dominated by the movement
types.  A comparison of Reagan’s last year in office to today
illustrates the dramatic change. Then, more than one-third of
Senate Republicans were either genuine liberals such as Mark Hatfield, Lowell Weicker and  Arlen Specter  or moderates such as
Bill Cohen, Bob Packwood and Nancy Kassebaum. With the
retirement of Olympia Snowe of Maine there’ll be no more than
two or three moderate Republicans in the Senate next year.  A quarter-century ago there were dozens of moderate
Republicans in the House, members like Chris Shays of
Connecticut, Amo Houghton of New York, Bill Gradison of Ohio,
 Tom Ridge  of Pennsylvania and Bill Frenzel of Minnesota.
Today there are very few House Republicans who break with
conservative orthodoxy.  The changes are equally dramatic at the state and local
level. Moderate Republican governors are relics. In Kansas this
month, the right wing, led by the state’s conservative governor,
drummed a number of the Bob Dole-type centrist Republicans out
of the party.  Presidential Nominee  Yet movement conservatives have never been able to rally
behind a single strong contender in the race for the
presidential nomination. Some of their leading lights --  Pat Robertson , Patrick Buchanan and  Steve Forbes  -- all aroused
passions in part of the base. None possessed broad appeal. The
one who might have come the closest was former Arkansas Governor
 Mike Huckabee , the runner-up to McCain in 2008. Religious
conservatives loved Huckabee and, though he was suspect to
supply-side economic conservatives, he had some draw beyond his
core constituency.  Huckabee would have been the strongest rival to Romney in
2012. He decided, however, not to run.  Thus, this year, the former moderate Massachusetts governor
faced the weakest primary field in modern memory.  The candidacy of businessman  Herman Cain , who led the field
at one stage, was a joke; former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum  was too angry and too narrow, and former House Speaker
 Newt Gingrich  never held consistent conservative convictions.
The one with the best chance, Texas Governor  Rick Perry , proved
to be a disastrous candidate, making Romney’s task relatively
simple.  More than a few movement conservatives who want to defeat
President  Barack Obama  see the Promised Land ahead, win or lose
in November. They believe there is a core of ideologically
driven younger Republicans who will replace the party’s
congressional leaders and will be positioned to nominate one of
their own the next time. At the top of that list might be
Romney’s chosen running mate, Congressman Ryan of Wisconsin,
whom many of these politicos on the right see as younger Reagan.  He would turn Pitney’s maxim upside down and galvanize the
movement conservatives while getting a chunk of the moderate
traditionalists.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is Washington editor at Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 