-- Romney Hits Obama Campaign’s ‘Divisiveness’ in Interview
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-08-26T15:18:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/romney-hits-obama-campaign-s-divisiveness-in-interview.html
President  Barack Obama  is running a
negative political campaign that is dividing the country,  Mitt
Romney  said in advance of the  Republican National Convention .  The “character assassination and divisiveness” of the
president’s campaign contrast with Obama’s message of hope and
change that helped him win the White House in 2008, Romney said
in an interview with “Fox News Sunday” that aired today.  Obama’s “whole campaign has been about dividing the
American people,” Romney said. “It’s between the haves and the
have-nots.”  Obama was “the first post-Watergate candidate for
president who said he was going to push aside the federal
spending limits and spend an unlimited amount based on what he
could raise,” Romney said of campaign financing. “And to be
competitive, we obviously are following suit.”  “But I would far rather have a setting where we had both
agreed to the federal spending limits,” Romney said. “It
increases the potential of money having influence in politics.”  As the Republican National Convention begins this week in
Tampa, Florida, Romney, a multi-millionaire whose father was
once governor of  Michigan , is attempting to portray himself as a
candidate who can relate to the broader population. He appeared
in a separate “Fox News Sunday” interview with his wife, Ann,
at their house in  New Hampshire .  The family has no servants there and Romney cooks, shops
and irons his own shirts, according to his wife. The couple
displayed a chore wheel that divides household work among
members of the family and Romney cooked pancakes for Fox’s  Chris
Wallace .  Women’s Rights  Romney described himself as a defender of  women’s rights ,
further distancing himself from comments made this month by
Representative William Todd Akin, a Republican candidate for
Senate, who said victims of “legitimate rape” may be able to
avoid pregnancy.  Romney said the remarks were “outrageous” and that
Republicans have told Akin to end his Senate bid in Missouri. He
also defended Republican support for women.  “I’m the guy that was able to get health care for all the
women and men in my state,” he said, referring to
Massachusetts’ health care program. The state was able to
overhaul its health care system without cutting Medicare, which
is what the federal health care law enacted in 2010 would do, he
said.  Obama’s signature health-care overhaul bill cuts Medicare
“to pay for Obamacare,” Romney said.  “I want to make sure that we get the country back on
track,” Romney said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  