-- U.S. Stocks Fall, Treasuries Rise Before Fed’s Summit
-- B y   J o h n   B u c k l e y   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2012-08-27T20:59:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/s-p-500-futures-oil-rise-as-wen-supports-extra-growth-measures.html
U.S. stocks fell while Treasuries
rose as investors awaited a speech from  Federal Reserve  Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  to gauge the outlook for monetary policy.  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  surged after winning a patent case.  The  S&P 500  slipped less than 0.1 percent to close at
1,410.44 at 4 p.m. in New York. Apple rallied to a record. Ten-
year Treasury yields lost four basis points to 1.65 percent.
Spot gasoline on the U.S. Gulf Coast rose to the highest price
in almost four years after refineries shut as Tropical Storm
Isaac approached  Louisiana . The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose and
Spain’s bonds halted a three-day drop.  Bernanke probably won’t use his Aug. 31 speech in Jackson
Hole, Wyoming, to suggest a third round of bond buying is
imminent, according to economists including  Michael Feroli  at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  James O’Sullivan  from High Frequency
Economics. The central bank’s Jackson Hole summit was the scene
of a 2010 speech when the Fed chairman foreshadowed a second
round of quantitative easing.  “I don’t think he will give any profound statement on
monetary easing,”  David Sowerby , a money manager at Boston-
based Loomis Sayles & Co., said in a telephone interview. His
firm oversees about $170 billion. “At best, he will reiterate
that the Federal Reserve stands ready for more easing if
necessary,” he said. “In the next month or two, for the rally
to continue, it needs more positive economic news.”  Volume Tumbles  Volume for exchange-listed stocks in the U.S. was less than
4.5 billion shares, the lowest level since at least 2008
excluding days surrounding holidays, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Members of the Federal Open Market Committee -- who meet
next on Sept. 12-13 -- are closely monitoring unemployment and
other data and have been divided about whether to spur
expansion. The  U.S. economy  also remains beholden to political
decisions made in Washington and in Europe, which is struggling
to contain its debt crisis  The S&P 500 on Aug. 24 snapped a  six-week rally , its
longest since January 2011. While the index last week climbed to
a four-year high on an  intraday  basis, it failed to close at
that threshold.  Hewlett-Packard Co., Alcoa Inc. and Bank of America Corp.
lost more than 1 percent to lead the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  down 33.3 points to 13,124.67.  International Business Machines Corp. slipped 1.1 percent
to $195.69 and was the biggest drag on the price-weighted Dow
after it agreed to buy Kenexa Corp. for about $1.3 billion in
cash, adding social-networking services that help companies
handle human resources and recruiting. Kenexa surged 41 percent.  Apple Rallies  Raw-material, telephone and industrial companies fell the
most among the  10 main groups  in the S&P 500, losing at least
0.3 percent. Technology stocks climbed the most. Apple rose 1.9
percent to close at an all-time high of $675.68 after a U.S.
jury on Aug. 24 found that Samsung Electronics Co. infringed on
six of its mobile-device patents, awarding Apple $1 billion in
damages. Samsung tumbled almost 7.5 percent in South Korea, its
biggest drop since 2008.  Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (HTZ)  surged 8.1 percent, the most in
almost two years, after striking a deal to buy Dollar Thrifty
Automotive Group Inc. for about $2.6 billion in cash and secure
its place as the No. 2 player in the U.S. car-rental market.
Dollar Thrifty climbed 7.5 percent. Hudson City Bancorp soared a
record 16 percent after M&T Bank Corp., which counts  Warren
Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. among its largest investors,
agreed to buy the bank to expand in New Jersey. M&T rallied 4.6
percent.  20 Biggest  American stocks are dominating global equities by the most
in a decade, taking a majority of the spots in a ranking of the
20 biggest companies, after earnings rose faster than the rest
of the world as the global economy rebounded.  Apple, IBM, Wells Fargo & Co. and four more U.S. companies
joined the top 20 since stocks peaked in 2007, bringing the
total to 14, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. They
replaced Moscow-based Gazprom OAO,  China Petroleum & Chemical
Corp. (600028)  in Beijing, Petroleo Brasileiro SA of Rio de Janeiro and
six others from Europe and Asia. Of the nine added, only BHP
Billiton Ltd. and Nestle SA are based outside the U.S.  Gasoline surged as much as 4.1 percent to $3.2050 a gallon,
a four-month high. Conventional 87-octane gasoline in the Gulf
jumped 18.5 cents to 32 cents a gallon over October gasoline
futures on the New York Mercantile Exchange, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg at 2:03 p.m. in New York. That’s the
largest premium since Sept. 19, 2008, when the Gulf Coast was
ravaged by hurricanes Gustav and Ike.  Isaac, Venezuela  Isaac may go ashore south of  New Orleans  early Aug. 29 as a
hurricane. About 78 percent of oil production and 48 percent of
natural gas output from the Gulf of Mexico has been halted.
Gasoline also rallied as Venezuela’s Amuay plant, the country’s
largest refinery, was shut as firefighters tackled flames
following the Aug. 25 blast.  “Gasoline is high because details about the Venezuelan
refinery outage are unknown,” Alexander Poegl, an analyst at
JBC Energy GmbH in Vienna, said by phone today. Gasoline is also
“reacting to Tropical Storm Isaac, which is shutting in oil
output and refineries as it strengthens into a hurricane.”  The S&P GSCI Index of commodities erased earlier gains,
slipping 0.5 percent as oil tumbled 0.7 percent to $95.47 a
barrel as the closing of refineries curbed demand.  Gold futures rose to a 19-week high, with contracts for
December delivery gaining 0.2 percent to settle at $1,675.60 an
ounce. Silver for December delivery rose for a sixth straight
day, extending its longest rally in 10 months, climbing 1.4
percent to $31.137 an ounce. The London Metal Exchange was
closed because of the U.K. holiday.  U.K. Holiday  The volume of shares changing hands on the benchmark Stoxx
600 was 64 percent lower than the average of the last 30 days
because the U.K. market was closed for a public holiday.  Q-Cells
SE (QCE)  surged 12 percent after South Korea’s Hanwha Group signed a
deal to acquire the insolvent German producer of solar cells.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  rallied 7.7 percent, the biggest gain in the
 Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP) , following the Samsung ruling. The U.S.
may ban sales of some Samsung handsets, potentially benefiting
Nokia devices that run Microsoft Corp.’s Windows operating
system.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets (MXEF)  Index fell 0.5 percent. The
Shanghai Composite Index retreated 1.7 percent as a report
showed Chinese industrial company profits slipped in July.
Russia’s Micex Index and India’s Sensex lost at least 0.4
percent.  Euro Talks  In Europe, German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  met
his French counterpart to discuss Europe’s debt crisis. The two
nations agreed to drive ahead measures on closer European
integration in a renewed show of unity by the region’s two
biggest economies. German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble,
speaking after talks in Berlin with his French counterpart,
 Pierre Moscovici , said the two countries will create a working
group to advance European Union cooperation on banking union,
fiscal union and the strengthening of monetary union.  The Ifo institute in Munich said its business climate index
dropped for a fourth straight month in August to its lowest
reading since March 2010.  The yield on Spain’s 10-year bonds fell four basis points
to 6.38 percent, outperforming similar-maturity German bunds,
which were little changed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Buckley in Amsterdam at 
 johnbuckley@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  