-- Samsung Slumps Most in 4 Years on U.S. Sales Ban Concerns
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2012-08-27T09:10:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/samsung-facing-product-delays-after-apple-wins-u-s-jury-verdict.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  plunged the
most in almost four years, wiping out more than $12 billion in
market value, on concern some devices may be banned in the U.S.
after a jury said it violated  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  patents.  Samsung plummeted 7.5 percent after a  California  court on
Aug. 24 ruled the world’s biggest handset maker infringed six of
seven  patents . Jurors said the Suwon, South Korea-based company
must pay more than $1 billion in damages in the first lawsuit
between the dominant global smartphone rivals to go before a
U.S. jury.  A ban may undermine Samsung’s grip on a smartphone market
valued at $219.1 billion by Bloomberg Industries and set a
precedent for rival handset makers that use  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android operating system. A judge scheduled a hearing next month
to consider Apple’s request for a permanent U.S. sales ban on
devices such as the Galaxy S and S II smartphones and the Galaxy
Tab 10.1 computer.  “What’s concerning is whether any ban will be extended to
flagship models and will have an impact on cases in other
places,” Seo Won Seok, a Seoul-based analyst at Korea
Investment & Securities Co., said by phone today. “Perhaps
Samsung has technology to avoid some infringements, but they
also need to come up with ways to get around Apple’s patents
within the Android operating system.”  Samsung Memo  Samsung shares fell to 1,180,000 won at the close in Seoul
trading, trimming their gain this year to 12 percent,  compared 
with a 64 percent climb for Apple. In German trading today,
Apple climbed as much as 2.6 percent to the equivalent of
$682.64, the steepest increase in almost a month.  Yields on Samsung’s five-year $1 billion U.S. dollar-
denominated bonds due April 2017 rose 15 basis points to 1.72
percent, according to prices from  Credit Agricole SA. (ACA)   It’s “regrettable” that the verdict has caused concern
among employees and customers, Samsung said in a memo posted on
the company’s  blog  today.  “We trust that the consumers and the market will side with
those who prioritize innovation over litigation, and we will
prove this beyond doubt,” Samsung said.  The company will ask the judge to overturn the verdict and,
if she doesn’t, will appeal the case, Mira Jang, a spokeswoman
for Samsung, said in an e-mail.  The verdict may delay Samsung’s introduction of new
products using Android software so it can redesign them.  Smaller iPad  North America  is the  third-largest region  for Samsung
mobile-phone sales after Asia Pacific and Western Europe,
according to HMC Investment Securities Co. The South Korean
company generated 16 percent of its revenue in the Americas as
of June 30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Samsung vaulted to the top of the global smartphone market
by introducing a variety of Galaxy models using the Android
operating system. The company may have to postpone some product
releases at a time when it needs to compete against Apple’s new
iPhone and possibly a smaller iPad.  “It’s kind of the worst-case scenario for Samsung,” Young Park, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Woori Investment & Securities
Co., said on Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move Asia.”  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh, who presided over the four-
week trial in  San Jose , California, set a Sept. 20 hearing on
Apple’s request for a sales ban on some Samsung products. She
ordered Apple to file a one-page chart by today identifying
which devices it seeks to ban. She also could triple the damages
under federal law.  Injunction Chances  “We expect there is a two-thirds chance of an injunction
against Samsung products,”  Peter Misek , an analyst at Jefferies
& Co. Inc., wrote in an Aug. 26 report.  Samsung’s schedules for introducing products won’t be
affected by the verdict,  James Chung , a Seoul-based spokesman
for the company, said by phone on Aug. 25.  The global lineup for the rest of this year includes the
next version of the Galaxy Note, which sold more than 10 million
units in less than a year. The company began selling a tablet
edition of the Note this month, following the May release of the
Galaxy S III, the newest version in its bestselling smartphone
series.  Samsung, which has gotten around other sales bans by
modifying some product features, has sought to differentiate its
products since the global patent fight with Apple began last
year, and the design and feature of the Galaxy S III may be
distinctive enough to avoid a ban, Seo said.  Capital Spending  Samsung -- the largest  maker  of computer-memory chips,
flat-screen panels and televisions -- plans 25 trillion won ($22
billion) in  capital expenditure  this year to boost manufacturing
capacity, including 15 trillion won for chips and 6.6 trillion
won for flat-screen panels used in smartphones, tablet computers
and TVs.  The company had cash and near-cash assets of 15.5 trillion
won as of June 30, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  While a fine without a sales ban would be “a slap on the
wrist” for Samsung, the company may also suffer damages to its
reputation,  Mark Newman , a senior research analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein in  Hong Kong , wrote in a report today.  “This result has proved to be an embarrassment and could
be a slight dent on public opinion,” he wrote.  The verdict may affect other makers of Android-based
devices. Apple has sued smartphone makers, including  HTC Corp. (2498) ,
the world’s fourth-largest, which generated $15.8 billion in
revenue last year mostly by selling phones including the Desire
and Sensation models.  Largest Customer  HTC shares dropped 1.9 percent to NT$257.50 in Taipei
trading, while  ZTE Corp. (763) , another Android-phone maker, declined
7.1 percent in Hong Kong trading.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , which doesn’t make
Android phones, gained as much as 11 percent in Helsinki trading
today.  “Although this situation will be a short-term relief to
HTC if Apple successfully bans Samsung’s questionable devices
from the U.S. market, we see increasing litigation risks for
HTC,” Jeff Pu, who rates the stock reduce at Fubon Financial
Holding Co., wrote in an Aug. 27 note.  Two of the patents in the case brought by Apple against
Samsung are also part of the iPhone maker’s case targeting more
than a dozen HTC devices before the International Trade
Commission. HTC declined to comment in an e-mail. Most claims
made by Apple against Samsung “don’t relate to the core Android
operating system,” Google said yesterday.  Apple is Samsung’s largest customer, even as they compete
to sell phones that allow users to surf the Web and play games,
and as they fight in courts on four continents over patent
infringement claims. Apple accounts for about 9 percent of
Samsung’s revenue, making it the company’s largest customer,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’ll take some time for an actual sales ban to take
effect, and Samsung will appeal, making it a long-term fight,”
Heo Pil Seok, chief executive officer at Seoul-based Midas
International Asset Management Ltd., which oversees $5 billion,
said by phone. “This will be an uncertainty for Samsung, and
investors hate uncertainty the most.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  