-- Samsung Heavy Bonds to Boost Cash-Strapped Shipyards’ Record
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   T a e j i n   P a r k
-- 2012-08-27T09:47:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/samsung-heavy-to-sell-bonds-as-cash-crunch-spurs-shipyard-sales.html
Samsung Heavy Industries Co. (010140)  plans
to offer 500 billion won ($440 million) of bonds next month as
South Korean shipyards sell a record amount of debt to cope with
a funding squeeze.  The company is preparing for the sale, it said in an Aug.
22 e-mail, without elaboration.  Hyundai Heavy Industries Co. (009540) ,
the world’s biggest shipyard, may also raise 1 trillion won
through bonds, loans and other means, according to a Newspim
report, citing unidentified industry officials. The shipbuilder
declined to comment.  South  Korea ’s three biggest shipyards have raised 2.4
trillion won in the  bond market  this year as a move away from
building container and commodity vessels toward more time-
consuming drill ships and offshore units leaves them waiting
longer to get paid. Less money is also coming in because the
economic slowdown is damping orders and letting customers win
lower down payments.  “There’s a temporary glitch in the  cash flow ,” said Um Kyung A, an analyst at Shinyoung Securities Co. in  Seoul .
“Orders have fallen drastically and there are no major
deliveries scheduled this year.”  Samsung Heavy, based in Seoul, dropped 0.3 percent to close
at 38,100 won, the lowest since Aug. 3, on the city’s stock
exchange. It has gained 37 percent this year. Hyundai Heavy
climbed 1.3 percent today and  Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine
Engineering Co. (042660)  fell 0.4 percent.  Low Yields  The shipyards are also taking advantage of near-record low
bond yields to refinance maturing debt sold in 2009, according
to Lim Jungmin at Woori Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul.
That was the previous record year, with the three big
shipbuilders raising 1.5 trillion won to cope with customers
canceling or delaying orders amid the global recession.  “The shipyards are opting to issue bonds at cheaper costs
than bank loans,” Lim said. “They need to refinance the
maturing bonds and they are pre-emptively raising capital to
secure liquidity as the industry is in a downturn.”  South Korean yields for three-year AA- corporate bonds, the
benchmark according to the Korea Financial Investment
Association, reached a record-low 3.35 percent on Aug. 3 after
the central bank lowered the benchmark rate in July for the
first time in three years. That compares with 5.67 percent for
 loans  as of June, according to data from the  Bank of Korea .  Hyundai Heavy  Hyundai Heavy has been the biggest seller of corporate
bonds in  South Korea  this year, raising 1.75 trillion won,
including 550 billion won through its refining unit. The Ulsan-
based company, whose shipbuilding arm hadn’t sold any bonds
since 2009, also raised 705 billion won selling part of its
stake in Hyundai Motor Co. last month.  The company’s shipbuilding and offshore orders fell 53
percent in the first seven months of the year. Full-year
deliveries will also be the lowest since 2010, with the company
and its affiliates handing over 135 vessels, predominately
container vessels and tankers. There won’t be any deliveries of
more lucrative drill ships and offshore units.  Next year, the company will hand over five drill ships,
which are used to explore for oil in deep waters. It will also
install a $2.06 billion liquefied natural gas processing
facility in  Australia  for Chevron Corp., completing a four-year
project.  Floating production units and drill ships account for
almost 50 percent of order backlogs at  Hyundai Heavy , Samsung
Heavy and Daewoo Shipbuilding, the world’s three largest
shipbuilders. That compares with about 30 percent at the end of
2010.  Drill Ships  Drill ships take about two years to build compared with
about eight months for a capesize commodity vessel. They sell
for about $600 million, more than 10 times the price of the
capesize.  The greater investment and time needed to build a drill
ship can squeeze shipyards as customers traditionally pay in
installments as work progresses, leaving the shipbuilder to
finance each stage.  The global order slump has exacerbated this trend as
shipyards are offering more generous payment terms to win
business, said Kim Hong Gyun, an analyst at Dongbu Securities
Co. in Seoul. For instance, customers may get to pay 70 percent
of the contract price on completion instead of spreading
payments during the work, he said.  “Shipyards don’t have the negotiating power like they used
to,” Kim said. “Orders have slumped and financing has become
more difficult. Things are more difficult now than in 2009.”  Global shipbuilding orders fell 56 percent from a year
earlier in the first seven months to 24.6 million deadweight
tons, according to Clarkson Plc, the world’s biggest shipbroker.
That was the lowest tally for the period since 1999.  Samsung Heavy  Samsung Heavy got $6.5 billion of orders in the first seven
months, compared with $14.9 billion for the whole of 2011. The
company sold 700 billion won of three- and five-year bonds in
February with 4.16 percent and 4.39 percent coupons,
respectively. It will deliver more than 10 drill ships next year
compared with four this year.  Daewoo Shipbuilding sold 500 billion won of bonds last
month. The sale was to take advantage of low  interest rates  and
to increase the availability of funds, it said by e-mail. The
company is working on 20 of the world’s largest container ships,
which were ordered by A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S. The first five
are due to be handed over next year, starting in June.  The pickup in deliveries should end the funding squeeze for
the shipyards, according to Park Moo Hyun, an analyst at E*Trade
Securities Co. in Seoul.  “The shipbuilders are going through a transition,” he
said. “Liquidity issues will be resolved next year as more
orders are completed and shipyards receive payments.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
Taejin Park in Seoul at 
 tpark31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  