-- Singapore May Raise Taxes for Social Spending as Nation Ages
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-08-27T02:07:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/singapore-sees-taxes-rising-on-social-spending-as-nation-ages.html
Singapore  will need to raise taxes
in the next two decades as the government boosts social spending
to support an aging population, Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong
said as he proposed measures to boost the country’s birth rate.  The prime minister pledged to ensure sufficient affordable
housing for citizens, invest in pre-school education and add
nursing homes for the elderly. He urged Singaporeans to build a
more compassionate society, reject anti-foreigner sentiment and
have more babies, saying the nation needs to re-invent itself as
the economy faces  slower growth  after years of rapid expansion.  “As our social spending increases significantly, sooner or
later, our taxes must go up,” Lee said late yesterday in his
annual televised National Day Rally address, which ran for more
than two hours. “Not immediately, but if we are talking about
20 years, certainly within that 20 years, whoever is the
government will at some point have to raise taxes because the
spending will have to be done.”  The government has sought to address public concern that
Singapore’s economic progress has left its poorest citizens
vulnerable to  rising living costs  while an influx of foreigners
increased competition for jobs, education and housing. After the
ruling party last year suffered its smallest electoral win since
independence in 1965, Lee tightened rules on hiring overseas
workers and boosted aid for the poor.  Inevitable Outcome  “With a shrinking working population, an inadequate birth
rate and a higher dependency ratio, there is an inevitability
that taxes will have to be raised,” said  Vishnu Varathan , a
Singapore-based economist at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. “I
don’t think anything will change in our  tax policy  to make us
less competitive in the next five to 10 years, but the prime
minister is talking about something much further out.”  Singapore, ranked by the World Bank as the easiest place to
do business, has cut taxes in recent years to spur investment.
Bankers in the U.K. favor working in the Southeast Asian city
over  New York  and  London , where they face lower wage growth and
higher taxes, according to an annual survey by recruitment firm
Astbury Marsden.  Lee said yesterday the government drew S$8 billion ($6.4
billion) from returns generated by its reserves in the budget
for the past fiscal year, exceeding the amount it collected from
personal income taxes.  “It’s helped us fund many new programs and still balance
our budget without having to push up taxes sharply,” he said.
“We have to draw from the reserves in a sustainable way.”  Baby Bonus  Singapore’s fertility rate, at 1.2 children per woman, is
too low, Lee said. The median age of Singaporeans will rise to
43.1 in 2020 from 37.6 in 2010, Bank of America Corp. said in an
April report, citing data from the  World Bank  and  United Nations .
That compares with 23.9 in the  Philippines , 31 in  Indonesia  and
28.4 in  Malaysia  at the end of this decade.  “We are having too few babies,” he said. “We have a
problem. The long-term trend is down but we cannot give up.
We’ve got to do something about it.”  The government will decide on measures to encourage
Singaporeans to marry and have more children after consulting
the public, he said. Areas being considered include better work-
life balance, flexible work arrangements, priority housing for
couples with young kids, paternity or shared maternity leave,
defraying childhood medical expenses, better pre-school,
childcare and infant care, and improving cash benefits for
having children known as baby bonuses, he said.  Worker Shortage  The city has added about 1 million people since the
beginning of 2005 as the government allowed more immigration to
make up for the declining birth rate and to meet growing demand
for workers in an expanding economy. Lee said yesterday the
 unemployment rate  is low and some industries still face a
shortage of workers.  Foreigners and permanent residents make up more than a
third of the nation’s 5.2 million population and opposition
parties have said that the large numbers of overseas laborers
have depressed local wages.  The influx contributed to crowded public transportation and
more competition for jobs, housing and places in schools,
fueling voter anger. The gap between Singapore’s most affluent
and poorest people widened last year.  “Many Singaporeans have concerns because the influx has
caused some real problems,” Lee said. “It’s fair enough for
people to express concern or disagree with our immigration
trends or oppose our immigration policies. But I’m worried by
some of the nasty views which are expressed. It reflects badly
on us, it damages our international reputation.”  Singapore will have two more universities to increase
educational opportunities and the government will invest S$60
billion over ten years on the island’s subway system, Lee said.
He said he was confident of providing enough housing that is
affordable to all Singaporeans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  