-- Sinopec Posts Lowest Half-Year Profit Since 2008 on Refining
-- B y   G u o   A i b i n g
-- 2012-08-26T08:31:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/sinopec-posts-lowest-half-yearly-profit-since-2008-on-refining.html
China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) ,
 Asia ’s biggest refiner, posted its lowest half-yearly profit
since 2008 after the sale of fuels at state-controlled prices
reduced earnings.  Net income fell 41 percent to 24.5 billion  yuan  ($3.9
billion) from 41.17 billion yuan a year earlier, the Beijing-
based company known as Sinopec said in an exchange filing today.
The result beat a  median estimate  of seven analysts compiled by
Bloomberg that called for a profit of 22.9 billion yuan.  The profit slide follows lower earnings for  PetroChina Co. (857) ,
China’s biggest oil and gas producer, which expects fuel-pricing
reforms in the second half to help cut losses from refining.
Sinopec and parent China Petrochemical Corp. have announced more
than $40 billion in deals to  acquire assets  globally since 2009
to build up oil and gas output and diversify from refining.  “Sinopec somehow did a nice job in cost control because
they can process less-expensive, low-grade crude in many
refineries,” said  Gordon Kwan , Hong Kong-based head of energy
research at Mirae Asset Securities Ltd. “Further upside in the
second half will hinge on the pace of China’s domestic fuel-
pricing reforms and improvement in its upstream-asset quality.
Until then, it is likely  Sinopec shares  will lag behind rivals
PetroChina and Cnooc.”  Lower Earnings  China’s three biggest oil companies posted lower earnings
in the first half. PetroChina’s profit dropped 6 percent to 62
billion yuan, while  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s biggest offshore oil and
gas explorer with no exposure to refining, said that net income
declined 19 percent.  Sinopec stock has declined 12 percent in Hong Kong this
year, while the benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  gained 7.8 percent.
The stock fell 2.6 percent on Aug. 24 to close at HK$7.17.  The company posted a loss of 18.5 billion yuan from
processing 811 million barrels of oil in the first half.
PetroChina, the country’s second-largest refiner, incurred a
loss of 23.3 billion yuan from refining 489.7 million barrels.  Sinopec processed 1.1 percent more crude than a year
earlier, when it lost 6.3 billion yuan less from refining.  “The loss came purely from the government’s policy of
capping retail-fuel prices,” said Laban Yu, head of Asia oil &
gas equity research at Jefferies Hong Kong Ltd. “There is not
much Sinopec can do. We believe current low inflation will allow
higher refiner margins in the second half and quite possibly a
change in the fuel-pricing mechanism.”  Price Controls  The National Development & Reform Commission,  China ’s top
economic planner, has indicated it may relax price controls on
natural gas and fuels in the second half, PetroChina President
Zhou Jiping said at a post-earnings briefing on Aug. 23.  Gasoline and diesel prices are set by the NDRC under a
system that tracks the 22-day moving average of a basket of
crudes, including Brent, Dubai and  Indonesia ’s Cinta. The cycle
may be shortened to 10 days, China Petrochemical said March 28.  China, the world’s second-biggest oil consumer, cut fuel
rates three times between May and July, helping truckers and
motorists with the lowest pump prices since December 2010, while
threatening profit margins at refiners. The nation increased
gasoline and diesel prices this month for the first time since
March after global crude costs climbed.  Brent crude , the benchmark for more than half the world’s
oil, dropped 20 percent in the second quarter, the biggest
decline since the final quarter of 2008.  Stimulus Policies  China’s economy  expanded 7.6 percent in the second quarter
from a year earlier, the least in three years, as  Europe ’s debt
crisis and unemployment in the U.S. crimped export growth, and a
crackdown on property speculation curbed domestic demand.  China is expected to release some stimulus policies in the
second half to maintain stable economic growth, Sinopec said.
Such policies would spur demand for fuel and chemical products,
creating a so-called positive market environment for Sinopec’s
businesses, it said in the statement.  First-half revenue increased 9.3 percent to 1.348 trillion
yuan, Sinopec said in the statement. Operating profit dropped
31.4 percent to 40.1 billion yuan.  Sinopec plans to produce 163.75 million barrels of crude in
the second half, including 9.14 million barrels from overseas,
the company said. The refiner has a target of processing 112
million tons of crude in the second half.  Sinopec said it boosted first-half crude output 4.3 percent
to 163.09 million barrels, and overseas production jumped 82
percent to 11.13 million barrels. Spending reached 51.5 billion
yuan in the first six months, with 21.8 billion yuan on
exploration and production.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in  Hong Kong  at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  