-- South Korean Consumer Confidence Slides to Seven-Month Low
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2012-08-27T00:33:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/south-korea-consumer-confidence-slides-to-lowest-in-seven-months.html
South Korean  consumer confidence 
dropped to the lowest level in seven months as  Europe ’s debt
crisis and a slowdown in  China  dragged on exports.  The  sentiment index  was at 99 in August from 100 in July,
the  Bank of Korea  said in an e-mailed statement today. A reading
below 100 indicates pessimists outnumber optimists.  The data highlight pressure on Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan to take extra measures to spur the economy after growth
cooled to the slowest pace in almost three years in the second
quarter and exports tumbled in July. He’s resisting lawmakers’
calls for a supplementary budget as he preserves ammunition to
counter any deeper slowdown.  “Confidence is likely to stay subdued throughout this year
with business conditions worsening,” said Lee Min Koo, an
economist at Eugene Investment & Securities Co. in  Seoul .  South Korea’s Kospi index fell 0.5 percent as of 9:14 a.m.
local time as Samsung Electronics Co. tumbled after losing a
lawsuit in the U.S.  Na Seong Lin, acting chairman of the ruling party’s policy
committee, said Aug. 23 that a “sizable” extra budget is
needed soon. The economy grew 2.4 percent in the second quarter
from a year earlier, according to a preliminary estimate. The
final figure is due Sept. 6.  Waning inflation is giving policy makers more room to move
should extra stimulus be needed. A 1.5 percent gain in consumer
prices from a year earlier in July was the least in 12 years.
The central bank will review  interest rates  next month.  The consumer confidence index is based on survey responses
from 2,062 households in 56 cities. It was conducted by mail and
telephone between Aug. 13 and Aug. 20.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  