-- Sudden Death Less Likely During or After Exercise: Study
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2012-08-26T13:28:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/sudden-death-less-likely-during-or-after-exercise-study.html
People whose hearts stop functioning
during or shortly after exercising are three times more likely
to survive than those who have cardiac arrest unrelated to
working out, researchers said.  The Amsterdam Resuscitation Study looked at 2,517 cardiac-
arrest cases in the Dutch capital’s greater metropolitan area
over a three-year period. Scientists found 145 of the patients
were exercising during or within one hour of cardiac arrest and
were mostly biking, playing tennis, working out at a gym or
swimming, according to the research presented today at the
 European Society of Cardiology  conference in Munich.  Almost half of the patients who were exercising survived
the event and they had a much better prognosis than those who
weren’t working out, the study said. Only 15 percent of those
whose cardiac arrest wasn’t exercise-related lived, the study
said. Those who were exercising were mostly young and male and
suffered cardiac arrest in a public place where they were more
likely to receive cardiopulmonary resuscitation, or CPR, from a
bystander, according to the researchers.  “The remarkably good survival of victims of exercise-
related out-of-hospital cardiac arrest can partially be ascribed
to the fact that they are younger and more likely to suffer the
arrest in a public location, leading to bystander CPR,” Arend
Mosterd, a cardiologist at the  Meander Medical Center  in
Amersfoot, the Netherlands, and a co-author of the study, said
in a statement today. “Taking these factors into account,
exercise per se also contributes to a better outcome.”  Electrical Malfunction  A  sudden cardiac arrest  occurs when the heart’s electrical
system malfunctions, causing the organ to stop beating.
Performing CPR or using a defibrillator to shock the heart back
into a normal rhythm within minutes can reverse sudden cardiac
arrest.  In the study, none of the patients who were exercising and
survived suffered serious neurological damage, which wasn’t the
case for non-exercise related cases, Mosterd said.  “Although physical activity is the best way to promote
cardiovascular health, exercise can also trigger an acute
cardiac event leading to death,” Mosterd said. “These dramatic
and often high-profile events, for example in soccer players,
invariably lead to concerns and cast a shadow over the
overwhelmingly positive effects of regular exercise.”  Muamba’s Collapse  Fabrice Muamba, then a midfielder for the Bolton Wanderers
soccer team, survived a cardiac arrest after collapsing during a
game on March 17. His heart had stopped for more than an hour
and he spent a month in the hospital. The 24-year-old retired
this month.  Muamba still experiences abnormal heart rhythms, Sanjay
Sharma, a sports cardiologist and consultant to Tottenham
Hotspur, which played the Bolton team the day the footballer
collapsed, said during the conference today. Sudden cardiac
death in athletes is rare, occurring in about one in 50,000
athletes, Sharma said. There are often no symptoms and many non-
professional athletes aren’t screened, he said.  “Between one in 250 and one in 500 athletes are walking
around today harboring a condition that could potentially kill
them,” Sharma said.  Athletes, particularly those of African descent, can
experience an abnormal thickening of  heart muscle  which can
cause an irregular heart rhythm and lead to sudden death, John
Harold, president-elect of the  American College of Cardiology ,
said in an interview in Munich. The cause can be physiological
or genetic, and athletes should be screened for it, he said.  “You shouldn’t have soccer players collapsing on the
field,” Harold said. “Screening should happen a lot earlier.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  