-- Syrian Forces Kill Hundreds in Attack Near Damascus
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   Z a i d   S a b a h
-- 2012-08-26T22:09:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/syrian-forces-kill-hundreds-in-assault-on-town-outside-capital.html
Syrian forces loyal to President
Bashar al-Assad stormed a town outside Damascus, leaving dead
bodies piled on the streets and in a mosque during the single
bloodiest day of fighting in the 17-month conflict.  Syrian forces killed 320 people during their assault in
Dariya last week, the opposition  Syrian Observatory for Human
Rights  said in a statement. Across the country, Assad’s forces
killed 440 people Aug. 25, “the largest number of people killed
in a single day,” the opposition Local Coordination Committees
said in an e-mailed statement.  Assad yesterday vowed to win the fight “no matter the
cost” and reiterated his charge that a “foreign plot” was
behind the violence in the country, according to the SANA state
 news agency .  International efforts have failed to halt a conflict that,
according to the opposition Syrian Observatory, has claimed more
than 23,000 lives. United Nations military monitors completed
their departure Aug. 24 after the two sides failed to observe an
April cease-fire. The UN envoy for  Syria ,  Kofi Annan , resigned
this month.  “Assaults like the one in Dariya aim to instill fear and
prevent people from joining the resistance,” said  Andrew Tabler , a Middle East analyst at the Washington Institute for
Near East Studies. “The government is resorting to these
tactics to reassert control.”  State-run television said Syrian forces had killed
“terrorists” in Dariya and confiscated weapons and explosives.  Bodies in Mosque  A video posted on YouTube showed the bodies of men covered
in blankets and spread out on the floor of the Abu Sulaiman
Darani mosque in Dariya. The authenticity of the video, which
was uploaded over the weekend, couldn’t be verified by
Bloomberg.  The attack on Dariya is the deadliest against a single town
since the conflict started in March 2011. At least 78 people
were killed by army shelling and attacks by Alawite Shabbiha
militia in the village of Qubair in June. A month earlier, 108
people, including 49 children, were killed in Houla.  The assault on Dariya “resulted in hundreds massacred,
dozens detained, and utter destruction throughout the city,”
the  Coordination Committees  said on its website.  “The Syrian regime’s appalling repression of its people,
over more than 17 months, has left little space for independent
observers to operate in Syria,” Alistair Burt, Britain’s
minister for the  Middle East  and North Africa, said in an e-
mailed statement. “Opposition groups report that over 300
people, including women and children, were killed and that some
were shot at close range. If confirmed it would be an atrocity
on a new scale, requiring unequivocal condemnation from the
entire international community.”  ‘Bad to Worse’  The situation in Syria is going from “bad to worse,” Arab
League Secretary-General Nabil el-Arabi was cited as saying
yesterday by  Egypt ’s state-run Middle East News Agency.  Turkey  has refused entry to 6,000 Syrian refugees since
Aug. 25 because of lack of space, while Lebanon has said
Palestinian refugees from Syria must leave in 15 days, news
agency  Al Jazeera  reported. Fighter jets attacked Syria’s
commercial capital Aleppo, according to the news agency, based
in Doha, Qatar.  Government planes also bombed the town of Busra al-Sham in
southern Syria, killing 34 people including children, al-Jazeera
television reported, citing activists. Al-Arabiya television
aired a video after the air strike, showing piles of bodies and
a voice of a man shouting “this is what the dogs of Assad have
carried out in the town.”  Damascus Toll  Syrian forces killed 213 people across the country
yesterday, including 84 in Damascus and its suburbs, the
opposition Local Coordination Committees said in an e-mailed
statement.  The Iranian television network Alalam yesterday showed
footage of a meeting between Syrian Vice President Faruq al- Shara and the chairman of  Iran ’s Security and Foreign Policy
Commission, Alaeddin Boroujerdi. The meeting was held in
Damascus, according to the network. Boroujerdi had a separate
meeting with al-Assad, Alalam said. Iran is ally of Assad’s
government, which last week denied a report by Dubai-based Al
Arabiya channel that Shara had defected to neighboring Jordan.  The uprising against the Syrian government is a plot
against the region, in which Syria is a cornerstone, Assad said
during the meeting, according to the state-owned SANA news
agency.  “The Syrian people won’t let this plot to reach its goals
no matter the cost,” Assad said, according to SANA.  Iran opposes foreign interference in regional affairs and
concerns about  human rights  shouldn’t be an excuse for
intervention, Iranian Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi  said in
Tehran yesterday, Iranian television network Press TV reported.  “Foreign intervention and taking advantage of the wave of
instability that has hit our region is unacceptable,” Salehi
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  