-- U.K. August House Prices Fall for a Second Month, Hometrack Says
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-08-26T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/u-k-august-house-prices-fall-for-a-second-month-hometrack-says.html
U.K.  house prices  fell in August for
a second month as demand declined amid a “fragile” market,
Hometrack Ltd. said.  Values slipped 0.1 percent from July, when they also fell
0.1 percent, the London-based property-research company said in
a report today. A measure of demand fell for a third month,
dropping 1.3 percent, while a gauge of supply rose 0.8 percent.  Britain’s property market remains under pressure as the
economy struggles to recover from a recession and the euro-area
debt crisis drags on, undermining confidence and pushing up
lending costs.  Bank of England  officials are assessing the
impact of their new plan to boost credit as they mull whether to
expand stimulus for the economy through quantitative easing.  “The market remains in a fragile state,”  Richard Donnell ,
director of research at Hometrack, said in the report. “As the
supply-demand balance weakens, we expect to see slow downward
pressure on prices over the remainder of 2012.”  Prices in nine of the 10 regions measured by Hometrack fell
in August. Values in  London  were unchanged, the first time this
year prices in the capital failed to rise. Prices are down 0.5
percent on the year.  In the year to date, demand for property has risen 10
percent, lagging behind a 19 percent surge in supply and adding
to downward pressure on prices.  In a separate report today, mortgage lender Halifax said
mortgage affordability is at its best in 15 years after  house
prices  and borrowing costs declined. The average proportion of
disposable income needed for mortgage payments for a new buyer
was 26 percent in the second quarter, it said. That compares
with 29 percent in the same period last year and an average of
36 percent over the past 27 years.  Mortgage Lending  The Bank of England started a program this month to
encourage banks to lend by providing them with cheap access to
funding.  Mortgage approvals  fell to an 18-month low in July as
concerns about the crisis in  Europe  deepened. Policy makers held
their target for bond purchases at 375 billion pounds ($594
billion) this month and the  benchmark interest rate  at a record
low of 0.5 percent.  “The prospect of interest rates remaining at low levels
for sometime yet is expected to continue to be a key factor
supporting the demand for homes,” said  Martin Ellis , housing
economist at Halifax. That will help “to keep house prices
around their current level during the remainder of 2012.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  