-- U.S. Taxpayers Are Gouged on Mass Transit Costs
-- B y   S t e p h e n   S m i t h
-- 2012-08-26T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/u-s-taxpayers-are-gouged-on-mass-transit-costs.html
If the first segment of  Manhattan ’s
Second Avenue subway  opens  on schedule in 2016, New Yorkers will
be reminded that it was once “the line that time forgot” -- a
project more than 75 years in the making, with no end in sight.
It should be remembered for another failing as well: It will be
one of the most expensive subways in the world.  Tunneling in any dense urban environment is an expensive
proposition, but the $5 billion price tag for just the first two
miles of the Second Avenue subway cannot be explained by
engineering difficulties. The segment runs mainly beneath a
single broad avenue, unimpeded by rivers, super-tall skyscraper
foundations or other subway lines.  American taxpayers will shell out  many times  what their
counterparts in developed cities in Europe and  Asia  would pay.
In the case of the Second Avenue line and other new rail
infrastructure in  New York City , they may have to pay five times
as much.  Amtrak  is just as bad. Its $151 billion master plan for
basic high-speed rail service in the Northeast corridor is more
expensive than  Japan ’s  planned  magnetic levitating train line
between  Tokyo  and Osaka, most of which is to be buried deep
underground, with tunnels through the Japan Alps and beneath its
densest cities.  The  numbers  for  California ’s proposed high-speed rail
system are similarly shocking.  California Bloat  The French rail operator SNCF  told  the California High-
Speed Rail Authority that it could cut $30 billion off the
project’s $68 billion estimated price tag. San Francisco can
barely build underground light rail for the price that Tokyo
pays for high-capacity subways. Los Angeles’s planned subway to
the sea will be a bit cheaper, but is still very expensive
considering the area’s lack of density.  The budgets for other types of urban public-works projects
can be just as shocking. Who can forget Boston’s Big Dig, the
 $24 billion  highway boondoggle? But mass-transit networks stand
to lose most from out-of-control infrastructure costs.  A huge part of the problem is that agencies can’t keep
their private contractors in check. Starved of funds and
expertise for in-house planning, officials contract out the
project management and early design concepts to private
companies that have little incentive to keep costs down and
quality up. And even when they know better, agencies are often
forced by legislation, courts and politicians to make decisions
that they know aren’t in the public interest.  Comparing American transit-construction practices with
those abroad yields a number of lessons. Spain has the most
dynamic tunneling industry in the world and the lowest costs. In
2003, Metro de  Madrid  Chief Executive Officer Manuel Melis
Maynar wrote a list describing the  practices  he used to design
the system’s latest expansion. The don’t-do list, unfortunately,
reads like a winning U.S. transit-construction bingo card.  Perhaps the most ostentatious violation of Melis’s manual
of best practices is expensive architecture in stations. “Design
should be focused on the needs of the users,” he wrote, “rather
than on architectural beauty or exotic materials, and never on
the name of the architect.”  American politicians have different priorities. The  Port
Authority  of  New York  and  New Jersey  is spending $3.8 billion on
a  single subway station  at the World Trade Center designed by
 Santiago Calatrava , a Spanish architect known for his costly
projects. If New York could build subways at the prices that
Paris and Tokyo pay, $3.8 billion would be enough to build the
entire Second Avenue subway, from Harlem to the Financial
District.  Spain’s Model  Melis also warned against “consultants who consultant with
consultants and advisers who advise advisers,” something
American planners would do well to learn. He  said  he didn’t hire
any “large firm of consulting engineers” as general project
managers for his Metro de Madrid expansions, and that designers
weren’t allowed to interfere with, or bid for, their own
construction contracts.  Not so in the U.S. Parsons Brinckerhoff, perhaps the
biggest name in the nation’s transit construction industry, is
both the lead-design contractor and project manager for
California’s planned high-speed rail line, and the company
stands a good chance of winning construction contracts for its
own designs.  As if that conflict of interest wasn’t bad enough, the
California High-Speed Rail Authority’s new CEO, Jeff Morales,
arrived at the agency after a  stint  as senior vice present at
 Parsons Brinckerhoff , where he worked on the authority’s
business plan.  Parsons Brinckerhoff, like all the other multinational
contractors and construction companies that win bloated
contracts in the U.S., can do good work. Its rail projects for
 Hong Kong ’s Mass Transit Railway were built at a reasonable
cost, and its participation in Turkey’s  Marmaray  rail tunnel
across the Bosporus in Istanbul shows that it can deliver
affordable results in forbidding terrain. But absent the right
incentives and oversight, even the best private companies will
resort to rent seeking.  Larry Littlefield , who has worked in logistics and as a
budget analyst at New York City Transit, also suggests the U.S.
legal system is an obstacle to designing and building affordable
infrastructure. (The U.K. and  India  share a common-law legal
heritage with the U.S. that is heavy on judicial review, and
they also have trouble controlling costs.)  New York government agencies are saddled by procurement
rules dating back generations, Littlefield says, when corruption
in infrastructure projects was endemic. Reformers demanded
objective and easily policeable standards, which often meant
lowest-price bidding rules. Bidders compete mostly on price, not
quality.  Speed Matters  In Madrid, on the other hand, cost was given only a 30
percent weight when picking designers and builders, according to
Melis. Speed was weighted at 20 percent. Melis praised quick
execution as necessary for an efficient, affordable project.
(Compare this with multigenerational projects, such as
California’s  high-speed rail  and New York’s Second Avenue
subway.) The remaining 50 percent was determined by the
technical merits of proposals and the staff’s subjective
considerations.  Littlefield also argues that judges in New York routinely
side with contractors in disputes with the  Metropolitan
Transportation Authority . “In the private sector, if you rob
your customer, you will suffer a hit to your reputation and
possible losses in the courts,” he said in an interview. “Not so
if you rob an agency like the MTA. Then it’s all rights and no
responsibilities.”  The MTA must continue to award contracts to the lowest-
price bidder, and without the ability to hold bad contractors
accountable, Littlefield said, the agency turns to “writing
longer and longer and longer contracts, expressly prohibiting
every way it has been ripped off in the past.” The byzantine
contracts that come out of this process drive entrants away,
limiting competition and pushing up costs.  Littlefield holds out hope, however, that transit agencies
are capable of building with reasonable costs and timelines --
at least when they have to. “Remember how fast and how cheap
they rebuilt the 1 train after 9/11? That’s what they’re capable
of. But it just doesn’t happen otherwise.”  ( Stephen Smith  is a writer based in  Brooklyn , New York, who
covers land use and transportation. The opinions expressed are
his own. Read  Part 2  here.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why  Republicans should quit
talking  about a moocher class and on the abuse of  drug users in
China and Southeast Asia ; William D. Cohan on former executives
 wanting higher taxes ;  Noah Feldman  on why  colleges need
affirmative action ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  Mitt Romney and the
movement conservatives .  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen Smith at  smithsj@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 