-- Hungarian Sentiment Index Declines to Third-Lowest Level of 2012
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-08-26T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/hungarian-sentiment-index-declines-to-third-lowest-level-of-2012.html
Hungary’s  economic sentiment  index
fell in August, registering its third-lowest level this year.  The index declined to minus 24.7 from minus 23.2 in July,
exceeding only readings from January and May in 2012, the GKI
research institute in Budapest said today in an e-mailed
statement. The  business-confidence  index dropped to minus 14.9
from minus 13.3, while the gauge of  consumer confidence 
decreased to minus 52.7 from minus 51.4.  “Both business and consumer expectations deteriorated in
August, reflecting deeply pessimistic sentiment,” GKI said.  Hungary’s  economy  entered its second recession in four
years in the second quarter as gross domestic product shrank 0.2
percent from the previous three months and 1.2 percent from a
year earlier. The government plans to resume financial-aid talks
with the European Union and the  International Monetary Fund  in
September.  The forint fell 0.4 percent against the euro to 278.59 Aug.
24, heading for its weakest close in more than a week. The
benchmark BUX stock index has declined 6.5 percent this year.  Industrial sentiment deteriorated “palpably” in August,
falling to levels last seen two and a half years ago, while
expectations in the retail and construction segments declined to
a lesser degree, according to GKI.  Households’ perception of their financial situation over
the next year and their ability to purchase durable goods
deteriorated, while their assessment of future savings
possibilities improved somewhat, it said.  GKI’s indexes are calculated based on a balance of positive
and negative answers to questions about the outlook for the
economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  