-- Nick Watney Wins PGA Tour’s First Playoff Event by Three Shots
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-08-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/watney-wins-first-pga-tour-playoff-event-by-three-over-snedeker.html
Nick Watney  turned around his season
with a three-shot win at The Barclays tournament, the first of
the U.S. PGA Tour’s four FedExCup playoff events.  After a breakthrough 2011 season in which he won twice, the
31-year-old Watney had finished better than 10th in one of his
previous 20 stroke-play events this year.  He changed that yesterday at Bethpage State Park’s Black
Course in Farmingdale, New York, shooting a 2-under-par 69 to
surge past third-round leader  Sergio Garcia  and claim his fifth
PGA Tour title. The victory puts him in position to challenge
for the $10 million bonus awarded to the playoffs winner and
also may help him contend for a spot on the U.S. Ryder Cup team.  “It’s been not quite the year I would have wanted, but
this really makes it all forgotten,” Watney said at a news
conference following yesterday’s final round.  Watney birdied four of the first 10 holes to move atop the
leaderboard and finished with a four-round total of 10-under-par
274, three better than Brandt Snedeker. Garcia, who had started
the final round with a two-shot lead, tied for third with last
year’s winner  Dustin Johnson .  Garcia, who was seeking back-to-back titles after his
victory at the Wyndham Championship, shot a 4-over 75 yesterday
to finish 6 under for the tournament.  The top 125 golfers in the season-long  FedExCup standings 
qualified for the Barclays. The field is now cut to 100 for the
Deutsche Bank Championship, which is held Aug. 31 to Sept. 3
outside  Boston , and then to 70 for the BMW Championship in
Carmel,  Indiana . The top 30 players in the standings reach the
Sept. 20-23 Tour Championship in Atlanta, where the FedExCup
winner receives a $10 million bonus.  Standings Lead  Watney’s victory puts him atop the standings and assures
him a spot in the Tour Championship. He’s followed by Snedeker,
 Tiger Woods  and PGA Championship winner Rory McIlroy.  “Since the playoffs have been formatted this way, this
tournament has proven to be maybe the biggest of the four, just
because you play well here, you can move so far,” Watney said.  Woods, who entered the playoffs leading the FedExCup
standings, shot 5-over-par in the final round to finish in a tie
for 38th place at 1-over. Woods shot rounds of 72 and 76 on the
weekend after opening with scores of 68 and 69.  Phil Mickelson  also closed with a 76 to finish 1-over,
while McIlroy, who leads golf’s Official World Ranking, tied for
24th at 1-under par.  Watney, who won the World Golf Championships-Cadillac
Championship and the AT&T National in 2011, sealed his victory
on the final hole with a birdie putt of almost 11 feet. He
credited his putting improvement during the week to minor
changes that came from working with a local professional,
Darrell Kestner of Deepdale Golf Club in Manhasset, New York.  Ryder Cup Mix  Watney’s win may also improve his chances of being one of
the four discretionary selections of U.S. Ryder Cup captain
 Davis Love III . Snedeker,  Hunter Mahan ,  Jim Furyk ,  Steve Stricker , Rickie Fowler and Johnson are among the other top
players who didn’t earn one of the eight automatic spots on the
U.S. squad for the biennial team competition against Europe.
This year’s event is scheduled for Sept. 28-30 at Medinah
Country Club outside Chicago.  “Coming in here, I didn’t deserve to be in the
conversation, because I had not played my way in,” Watney said.
“Someone told me that Davis said he wanted a hot player, and we
still have a week to go. I’d love to be on the team.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  