-- Weidmann Says ECB Purchases Could Become ‘Addictive Like a Drug’
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-08-26T10:54:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/weidmann-says-ecb-purchases-could-become-addictive-like-a-drug-.html
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann
said a proposed new wave of sovereign bond purchases by the
 European Central Bank  may increase governments’ reliance on such
funding and won’t help solve the euro-area debt crisis.  “We shouldn’t underestimate the danger that central bank
financing can become addictive like a drug,” Weidmann said in
an interview with  Der Spiegel . “Such policy is too close to
state financing via the money press for me.”  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said earlier this month that the
central bank may intervene in the secondary market to lower
yields in countries that ask  Europe ’s bailout fund to buy its
bonds in the primary market. While such a move would ensure
conditionality, the Bundesbank has been critical of the plan.  “In democracies, parliaments rather than central banks
should decide on such an encompassing mutualization of risks,”
Spiegel cited Weidmann as saying in an e-mailed summary of the
interview today. The plans are becoming “concerted actions by
the state rescue mechanisms and the central bank. That causes a
link between fiscal and monetary policy.”  Weidmann said that while he doesn’t see an immediate danger
of  inflation , central bankers risk losing their focus on their
primary objective if they become political problem solvers,
according to the Hamburg-based magazine.  The ECB shouldn’t be forced to “guarantee that states
remain in the euro area at all costs,” Weidmann said.  In the decision on whether  Greece  should leave the euro, it
will “certainly play a role that no further damage is done to
confidence in the framework of the currency union and that the
requirements of aid programs retain their credibility,” he
said.  The Bundesbank chief also said that central bankers must be
ready to explain in public the convictions they express in the
ECB Governing Council.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  