-- Willard Butcher, Former Chase CEO Who Expanded Bank, Dies at 85
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-08-27T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/willard-butcher-former-chase-ceo-who-expanded-bank-dies-at-85.html
Willard C. Butcher, the former Chase
Manhattan Bank chairman and chief executive officer who helped
lead its global expansion, died on Aug. 25 at age 85.  Butcher, who resided in Hobe Sound, Florida, died of cancer,
said Fraser Seitel, a former Chase spokesman.  The banker succeeded  David Rockefeller  as CEO in 1980 and
as chairman the following year. Under their tenures, the company
expanded to operate in more than 50 countries, including Russia,
 Egypt  and China, where U.S. banks hadn’t previously done
business. By the time Butcher retired from Chase in 1991, the
firm employed 41,500 people, according to a statement from
Seitel.  “I am deeply saddened by the news of Bill’s passing,”
Rockefeller said in a statement. He “worked tirelessly to
enhance the bank’s position around the world.”  In 1947, Butcher joined Chase National Bank, a forerunner
to Chase Manhattan, and later headed retail and corporate
business for Midtown Manhattan, according to Seitel’s statement.
Moving to Chase’s international department in 1969, Butcher
oversaw operations in Europe and sub-Saharan Africa and
eventually took broader roles, including a stint as the firm’s
vice-chairman for worldwide planning, expansion and
diversification.  In 1972, he became president and chief operating officer of
Chase, reporting to Rockefeller, who was chairman and CEO.  Chase merged with J.P. Morgan & Co. in 2000 to become
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , now the largest U.S. bank by assets.  Butcher was born Oct. 25, 1926, in Bronxville, New York. He
served in the U.S. Navy. He graduated from  Brown University  in
1947.  He served on boards at  Celgene Corp. (CELG) , Firestone Tire &
Rubber Co., International Paper Corp. and Texaco Inc. He was
also a board member of New York City’s Museum of  Modern Art  and
the New York Zoological Society.  He was widowed twice. He is survived by his wife of 33
years, Carole McMahon Butcher, three daughters, two sons, and 11
grandchildren.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  