-- Wrinkled Workers Help Defuse Japan’s Pension Time Bomb
-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 2012-08-26T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/willing-wrinkled-workers-help-defuse-pension-time-bomb-in-japan.html
The thought of retiring after more
than four decades made Hirofumi Mishima anxious. Instead of
looking forward to ending his three-hour daily commute, Mishima
wanted to work, even if it meant another hour on the train.  “Keeping a regular job is the most stimulating thing for
me,” said Mishima, 69, who spent six months trawling the
vacancy boards at a  Tokyo  employment center after retiring from
his $77,000-a-year job as an industrial-gas analyst in 2009.
“If I was at home all day, I’d get out of shape and my wife
would fret about all the extra chores she’d have to do.”  Mishima is one of  5.7 million  Japanese older than 65 still
in the workforce for money, health or to seek friends -- the
highest proportion of employed seniors in the developed world.
While European governments struggle to convince their voters to
sign up for longer work lives,  Japan  faces the opposite issue:
how to meet the wishes of an army of willing elderly workers.  Japan’s lower house passed legislation this month that
would give private-sector employees the right to keep working
for another five years, up to age 65. With the world’s longest
 life expectancy , largest public debt and below-replacement
birthrate, curbing spiraling welfare costs by keeping people in
jobs longer may help defuse a pension time bomb that threatens
to overturn or bankrupt developed-world governments.  “The raising of the  retirement age , it’s a good thing, and
more importantly, we have no alternatives,” said Michael Hodin,
a researcher at the  Council on Foreign Relations  in  New York 
specializing in health policies and aging populations. Current
concepts of retirement don’t make sense in the context of 21st
century demographics, and governments are looking to reframe the
social contract, he said.  ‘A Disaster’  “If we don’t do that, we’re leading to a disaster,” Hodin
said.  The  World Economic Forum  went further in its  Global Risks
2012  report, saying a scenario in which the largest population
of retirees in history becomes dependent on already heavily
indebted governments could bring lawlessness and unrest to
formerly wealthy countries.  Warning signs have started to appear. Unsustainable
retirement expenses have helped push cities from Stockton,
 California , to  Central Falls , Rhode Island, into bankruptcy.
Illinois lawmakers last week failed to agree on cuts to help
plug an $83 billion hole in the state’s pension plans that make
them the nation’s most underfunded. Efforts by Greece’s
government to reduce spending on pensions and health care
sparked riots and strikes earlier this year.  Pension Time  Japan is taking steps to avoid going the same way, as  life
expectancy  -- predicted to exceed 90 years for women by 2050 --
threatens to prolong the time seniors are drawing pensions.  Even without the new legal entitlement, people already stay
working in Japan longer than in other developed countries. Men
exit the labor market on average at 70 and women at 67, the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said in a
 report  last year.  Within four decades, almost half the people in the world’s
third-largest economy will be 65 years or older, compared with
one in four now. Japan’s working population has  fallen  3.9
percent to 65.5 million people in 2011 from the peak in 1997,
according to data from the country’s Statistics Bureau. And at
1.4 babies per woman, the birthrate is below the two or more
needed to stop the trend.  From April, citizens will have to wait an extra year --
until they are 61 -- to become eligible for their old-age
pensions, rising to 65 by 2025.  Welfare costs in Japan are projected to increase 36 percent
to 148.9 trillion yen ($1.9 trillion) by 2025, the equivalent of
24 percent of gross domestic product, according to  Cabinet
Office  documents released in March.  Miscalculated Benefits  Delaying the retirement age is one way Japan can plug a
shortfall in pension provisions, said  Martin Schulz , a senior
economist at Fujitsu Research Institute in Tokyo. The deficit is
a result of benefit miscalculations made in the early 1970s that
led to snowballing public debt, he said.  “Japan’s public-debt problem is just starting,” Schulz
said.  More than half of the 34 OECD’s member nations have
increased the starting age for pensions. Men in 17 states become
eligible for pensions at 65, while more than a dozen countries
are delaying it to 67 or later, as governments link pension-age
to life expectancy, the OECD said in a  report  this year.  ‘Golden Age’  “Today’s retirees are living through what might prove to
have been a golden age for pensions and pensioners,” the Paris-
based group said in an  editorial  accompanying the report. People
in future will have to work longer before retiring and live off
smaller public pensions, it said.  Japanese like Kazuyoshi Hirota have already accepted that
fate. The 69-year-old works 24 hours a week as a manager-cum-
janitor of an apartment building in central Tokyo. He retired
seven years ago from his full-time security job at the head
office of  Asahi Group Holdings Ltd. (2502) , a brewer.  “The pension isn’t enough to live comfortably,” said
Hirota, who lives with his wife Yoko, a cleaner of the same age,
in the two-story suburban Tokyo house he bought 40 years ago for
4 million yen -- about $13,000 at the time. “Life is boring
without work. My wife says the same.”  Japan, where babies born today can expect to live to 83,
has the highest proportion of working seniors in the developed
world: 20 percent of people over 65, compared with 14.5 percent
in the U.S., 6.3 percent in the U.K., 3.4 percent in  Germany ,
3.1 percent in  Italy  and 1.3 percent in  France , according to
 data  compiled by Japan’s Statistics Bureau.  Health Costs  Longer working lives do have downsides, including a
reduction in per-capita productivity, said Peter Tasker, a
founding partner of hedge fund Arcus Investment Ltd. “You are
trying to increase the supply of workers even though demand
isn’t increasing,” he said. “That probably means the wages go
down for everybody.”  Still, keeping senior workers can save on health costs.
Nagano in central Japan has the highest proportion of working
seniors of any prefecture and its elderly spend the least on
health care, according to a 2007 white paper from the Japanese
health ministry. In contrast, Fukuoka in the southwest has one
of the lowest ratios of working seniors in the country and the
highest health costs.  Aging Planet  The  University of Tokyo’s Institute of Gerontology  is
running projects to assess whether jobs at farms, nursing homes,
restaurants and kindergartens enable seniors to enjoy a more
active, healthier lifestyle, said Hiroko Akiyama, a professor at
the institute. The researchers want to create a model that can
be adopted across urban Japan, where aging will accelerate as
 baby boomers  retire, she said.  Worldwide, the proportion of people older than 60 years in
the population is increasing at more than three times the total
growth rate. Within five years, adults 65 years and older will
outnumber children younger than 5 for the first time. By 2050,
there will be  2 billion  people 60 years or older, from 605
million in 2000, the  World Health Organization  said.  Aging is occurring fastest in low- and middle-income
countries, according to the Geneva-based agency, which dedicated
this year’s  World Health Day  to aging and health.  “A transition towards an older society that took more than
a century in  Europe  is now taking place in less than 25 years in
countries like Brazil and China,” WHO Director-General Margaret Chan told a  meeting  on gerontology in  Havana  in March. “The
window for preparatory action has become much smaller.”  It may be easier for Japan to accommodate older workers
than elsewhere. Its  unemployment rate  is 4.3 percent, compared
with 8.3 percent in the U.S. and 11 percent in the Eurozone,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Komatsu, Mitsubishi  Still, companies would prefer not to be required by law to
retain older workers, said  Yasuchika Hasegawa , head of the
Japan Association of Corporate Executives, the nation’s second-
biggest business lobby.  “It’s difficult for businesses to keep everyone,” said
Hasegawa, 66, who is also chief executive officer of  Takeda
Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) , Asia’s largest drugmaker. Employers should
instead create an environment that enables the elderly to work
until they are about 70, he said.  Komatsu Ltd. (6301) , the world’s second-biggest construction-
equipment maker, rehires 90 percent of its retirees with a 40
percent cut in salaries. “I’m happy to keep workers on after
65, but I don’t think many are physically capable,” Chief
Executive Officer Kunio Noji, 65, said in an interview. “Also,
it may take away job opportunities for younger people.”  Mitsubishi Estate Co. (8802) , Japan’s largest developer by market
value, says 11 percent of its workers are over 60 years old and
four out of five of those workers stay for another five years.  Precious Resource  “When the working population is falling, the elderly
become a precious part of the workforce, and it’s meaningful to
hire people with motivation,” the Tokyo-based company said in
an e-mail.  That’s not something industrial-gas analyst Mishima lacks.
Fifteen days a month, he rises at 4 a.m. and commutes two hours
each way to work an 8-and-a-half-hour shift overseeing the
supply of hydrogen gas to buses.  “Before my retirement, I worked for the company and got
satisfaction from contributing to its profit and growth,” he
said. “Now, I work for my health. I’m very happy my job gives
me mobility and helps me stay active.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  