-- Wilmar Takeovers Looming After Stock’s Decline: Real M&A
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2012-08-27T09:42:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/wilmar-takeovers-looming-after-stock-s-decline-real-m-a.html
Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL)  needs an
acquisition to reduce its dependence on a money-losing, oilseed-
crushing business in  China  as the company trades at a 65 percent
discount to sales.  Profit at the largest importer of soybeans into China fell
52 percent in the first half of the year as the unit that turns
the beans into oil and animal feed reported a  loss . The most
severe U.S. drought in half a century now threatens the business
further by driving up soybean prices. Down 36 percent this year,
the Singapore-based company’s stock is the worst performer in
the city-state’s  benchmark index  and is trading at its lowest
price-to-sales multiple since 2008, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  After it attempted to buy  Goodman Fielder Ltd. (GFF)  and
considered a bid for Gavilon Group LLC this year, Wilmar could
reverse its  stock decline  by acquiring a company that lessens
its reliance on China, according to PhillipCapital. Australia’s
 GrainCorp Ltd. (GNC)  would give Wilmar a business in food commodity
trading, said Emerald Group Australia Pty, while purchasing
Brazilian sugar operations would give it a foothold in the
largest sugar-producing country, said Nomura Holdings Inc.  “They should be making acquisitions,” James Koh, a
Singapore-based analyst at Maybank Kim Eng Holdings, said in a
telephone interview. “It’s better for them to diversify their
portfolio in terms of their product offering. Any sort of
diversification should be good for them.”  Crushing Soybeans  “We will only consider M&A opportunities which have
synergies with our existing operations,” the company wrote in
an e-mailed statement. Wilmar has a capital expenditure target
of under $1 billion for this year, “unless we see very
compelling targets for M&A,” Chief Executive Officer Kuok Khoon Hong said at an Aug. 15 briefing.  Kuok is the nephew of Malaysian billionaire  Robert Kuok ,
who controls about 28 percent of Wilmar, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Decatur, Illinois-based Archer Daniels Midland
Co. also holds a 5.2 percent  stake  in Wilmar, the data show.  After starting in  1991  with an oil palm plantation in
Western Sumatra,  Indonesia , Wilmar has grown to become the
world’s largest producer of the oil used for cooking and in soap
and biofuel. Kuok built Wilmar through a series of acquisitions
that have totaled $5.9 billion in the past decade alone, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The company is now the largest importer of soybeans into
China, it says. The country was home to 50 of the 54 plants,
owned by Wilmar and its subsidiaries, used to crush soybeans and
other so-called oilseeds into meal used in animal food and
cooking oil, according to the company’s 2011 annual report.  Decade-Low Margins  Yet, Wilmar’s oilseeds and grains division swung to a $92.5
million loss in the first half of 2012, from a $321.5 million
profit the year before, data from the company shows. Crushing
margins in the second quarter were the worst in a decade, CEO
Kuok said earlier this month.  The business began suffering after government-backed
companies in China added more oil-crushing capacity than the
country needs, an excess that will take several years to
disappear, Macquarie Group Ltd. analysts wrote in a report dated
Aug. 21.  Since 2006, Wilmar’s  sales  in China have risen more than
fivefold, to about $21.7 billion last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The country, where Wilmar produces
packaged cooking oil and mills rice and flour, accounts for
almost half of its $44.7 billion in annual revenue.  Diversifying Acquisitions  “Given their focus is on China, it would be better for
them to diversify to other regions, other  emerging markets ,”
said Nicholas Ong, an analyst at PhillipCapital in  Singapore .
“Acquisitions will definitely help, being a catalyst to their
stock price.”  Wilmar faces pressure not to raise prices in China even as
the cost of soybeans surges amid the worst U.S. drought since
1956. After telling cooking oil suppliers to keep wholesale
prices for packaged products stable to avoid stoking inflation
in July, Chinese government officials also asked suppliers to
start reporting product prices, people with knowledge of the
matter said earlier this month.  As soybeans traded in Chicago have jumped 45 percent this
year,  soybean oil  traded in Dalian is up only about 11 percent,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Wilmar’s 36.4 percent decline  this year  is the steepest
drop among the 30 companies in Singapore’s benchmark  Straits
Times Index (FSSTI) , which has gained 15 percent. Wilmar ended trading
last week at S$3.18 a share, giving it a market value of S$20.4
billion ($16.3 billion). Wilmar was unchanged in Singapore
trading today.  Sales Discount  The stock was  valued  on Aug. 24 at 0.35 times sales, a
level not seen since December 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. That compares with an average multiple of 1.7 times for 47
food manufacturers and agricultural product wholesalers with a
market value higher than $5 billion, the data show.  An acquisition that adds new product lines to Wilmar’s
portfolio would help offset the risk of a downturn in a single
industry, said Maybank’s Koh.  “If you look at their product range it’s actually quite
narrow,” he said. That “might result in more earnings risk if
one or two markets don’t do that well. Anything that can
leverage on their existing expertise in agricultural products
should be decent places to go into.”  Among targets that would suit Wilmar is Sydney-based
GrainCorp, operator of seven of the eight ports that ship grain
from Australia’s east coast, according to Mike Chaseling, deputy
chairman of Melbourne-based grain trader Emerald Group
Australia. GrainCorp, with a market value of $2 billion, owns
silos, railroad cars and grain elevators used to load ships.  Targeting GrainCorp  “GrainCorp would seem to broadly fit a Wilmar that’s
involved in trading and accumulating bulk commodities and
involved in first-stage processing,” Chaseling said in a phone
interview. “There are not that many assets left if you want to
have a meaningful position in the Australian grain supply
chain.”  Angus Trigg, a Sydney-based spokesman for GrainCorp,
declined to comment on market speculation. GrainCorp, which rose
as much as  1.9 percent  today, was up 0.2 percent to A$9.85 by
the close of trading in Sydney.  Another approach for Wilmar would be to build its business
outside of  Asia , said Tanuj Shori, an analyst at Nomura in Hong
Kong. Asia, including Australia and  New Zealand , accounts for 79
percent of Wilmar’s revenue, its annual report shows.  “They should go and acquire sugar assets in South
America,” Shori said in a phone interview. “South America is a
hub of export markets when it comes to food. If you want to be a
global trader, you have to be in South America.”  Brazilian Sugar  Wilmar, which already owns an Australian sugar mill, has
yet to follow rivals into  Brazil , the world´s largest producer
and exporter of sugar. Sugar mills in Brazil are struggling with
debt, which paved the way for acquisitions by  Olam International
Ltd. (OLAM) , Noble Group Ltd. and Louis Dreyfus Holding BV in past
years. According to the Unica industry association, about 41
cash-strapped mills have shut down since 2008.  Adding to its palm-oil business with purchases of
plantations in  Africa  would also help, said Ong at
PhillipCapital. The unit that grows oil palm in Malaysia and
Indonesia generated the highest profit before tax of all the
company’s divisions, yet only accounts for 5 percent of assets,
according to Ong.  “Plantations would definitely be a good investment,” he
said. “They actually fetch a higher return on the asset.”  Africa Investment  Wilmar has increased investment in Africa, buying 77
percent of Ghana-listed  Benso Oil Palm Plantation Ltd. (BOPP) , stakes
in oilseed crushing plants in  South Africa , and building a palm
oil refinery in  Nigeria  last year, according to its annual
report. Still, with only 2 percent of Wilmar’s total planted
oil-palm plantations in Africa, the company will look for more
ways to expand its land on the continent, it said.  Rival Olam in July said it signed a loan agreement for $228
million to finance palm-oil production in Gabon, while
Ethiopia’s government said in April it had identified almost 1
million hectares (2.5 million acres) of land suitable for
investors in biofuel crops such as oil palm.  Any acquisition would add to Wilmar’s already rising debt
even as earnings decline. As Wilmar’s  net debt  increased to
$12.5 billion by the end of June, its interest cover -- a
measure of ability to meet interest payments -- slipped to 5.7
times from 9.2 at the end of 2011.  “Wilmar is already quite leveraged, so you’d have to
balance any acquisition with the fact that they’d probably have
to take on more debt, and that would add more concern,” Vincent Fernando, an analyst at Religare Capital Markets in Singapore,
said in a phone interview. “You don’t want to be adding debt
while your income is slowing.”  Failed Deals  This hasn’t stopped Wilmar from considering deals recently.
The company explored an offer for Omaha, Nebraska-based Gavilon
before Tokyo-based  Marubeni Corp. (8002)  struck a $3.6 billion deal to
acquire the grain merchandiser in May, people with knowledge of
the matter had said in March.  Wilmar said this month that it also made a takeover
approach to  Goodman Fielder  earlier this year. Wilmar didn’t
reveal how much it was willing to pay, and Goodman Fielder, a
seller of dairy products with a market value of about $1
billion, said it never received a formal offer.  As Wilmar remains profitable even with the losses at its
oilseed crushing unit mounting, the company will always be on
the hunt for acquisition opportunities, said Ong at
PhillipCapital.  “Companies need M&A in this industry to grow,” Nomura’s
Shori said. “Move out of Asia, that’s what we want them to
do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net ;
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at   rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Rabil at   srabil@bloomberg.net . 