-- Xstrata Discount to Glencore Bid Shows Increasing Doubts on Deal
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-08-26T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/xstrata-discount-to-glencore-bid-shows-increasing-doubts-on-deal.html
Xstrata Plc (XTA)  is trading at a record
discount to commodity trader  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) ’s 20.1
billion-pound ($31.8 billion) bid, suggesting investors
increasingly believe this year’s biggest takeover will fail.  The discount to Glencore’s offer of 2.8 shares for each
Xstrata share widened to 10.7 percent on Aug. 24, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Glencore Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg last week
reiterated that he will rebuff calls for a higher bid. Sovereign
wealth fund Qatar Holding LLC has increased its stake in Xstrata
to 12 percent since the deal was announced Feb. 7 and is
pressing for better terms. The takeover, on which investors are
scheduled to vote on Sept. 7, would be the second-largest mining
takeover if completed at current values.  “The prices of the stocks tell you that the deal is in
trouble,” said  Keith Moore , an event-driven strategist at MKM
Partners LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Xstrata rose 0.1 percent to 927.7 pence in  London  on Aug.
24. Glencore climbed 0.2 percent to 366.85 pence. Trading in
London is closed today for a public holiday.  Glencore, the largest publicly traded commodities supplier,
is seeking to add Xstrata’s copper, coal and zinc mines to
create the world’s fourth-biggest mining company and challenge
rivals BHP Billiton Plc, Vale SA and Rio Tinto Plc. Glasenberg
would be deputy CEO once the deal is done while Xstrata boss
 Mick Davis  would be CEO.  Chinese Demand  That plan was thrown into doubt after Qatar Holding raised
its Xstrata interest from 3 percent in February to a stake now
worth at least 3.2 billion pounds. The fund said June 26 an
exchange ratio of 3.25 Glencore shares would “provide a more
appropriate distribution of benefits of the merger.”  The deal is poised against a background of moderating
commodity demand as  China’s economy  slows. Glencore said Aug. 21
its first-half net income dropped 26 percent to $1.8 billion.
Earlier this month, Xstrata reported a 33 percent decline in
first-half earnings.  Glasenberg, 55, said last week he’s ready to walk away from
the deal rather than overpay. Glencore may revisit the deal in a
year or two if the current transaction doesn’t succeed, he said.  If Qatar votes against the bid, “they will block the
deal,” Glasenberg said in an Aug. 21 interview.  “From my point of view, from Glencore’s point of view, so
be it,” he said. “It’s not the end of the world.”  ISS Report  There is probably about a 40 percent chance that the bid
succeeds, analysts at Liberum Capital Ltd. in London said in a
note on Aug. 24.  “The widening of the bid spread reflects the market coming
to terms with the increasing likelihood of a deal break,”
Liberum said.  Charles Watenphul, a spokesman for Glencore, and  Claire Divver , a spokeswoman for Xstrata, declined to comment.  The combination of Glencore and Xstrata can be blocked by
just 16.48 percent of Xstrata holders under U.K. takeover rules
because Glencore can’t vote its 34 percent stake.  Institutional Shareholder Services Inc., a proxy advisory
service, said Aug. 22 that Xstrata shareholders should vote
against the acquisition, which it described as being “marginal
on economic merit.”  ISS also recommended Xstrata shareholders vote against
proposed retention payments to keep Xstrata executives at the
merged company. Xstrata investors Standard Life Plc and Fidelity
Worldwide Investment in February criticized as excessive
proposed payments of as much as 172.8 million pounds for 73
executives. Xstrata said in July the terms of incentive plan
would be revised and be voted on at the Sept. 7 meeting  “My perception is the chances of this getting done here
are probably low,” said  Sachin Shah , a  Jersey City , New Jersey-
based special-situations and merger-arbitrage strategist at
Tullett Prebon Plc. “It seems like Glencore’s CEO doesn’t
really want to up the ante enough to get this to the finish
line.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  