-- Yankees Strand Runners in 3-1 Loss; Mets Snap Losing Streak
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2012-08-26T02:54:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-26/yankees-strand-runners-in-3-1-loss-mets-snap-losing-streak.html
The Cleveland Indians’ Michael Brantley hit a three-run homer in the bottom of the first inning
and that’s all the home team needed to beat the  New York Yankees 
3-1 at Progressive Field.  With two runners on base, Yankees pitcher Hiroki Kuroda
threw a 93-mile per hour sinker that Brantley sent over the
right-center field fence for his sixth home run of the season.  The Yankees, losers in  four of their past five  games,
struggled with runners in scoring position. They stranded two in
the fifth and had the bases loaded in the sixth and seventh
innings, but could only muster a single run when  Derek Jeter 
scored on  Mark Teixeira ’s sacrifice fly in the sixth inning.  Back in  New York , Mets pitcher  R.A. Dickey  retired the
first 10 batters he faced and gave up one run in seven innings
to lead the  New York Mets  past the Houston Astros 3-1 at Citi
Field.  The  victory  snapped a six-game losing streak, the second
such for New York this year, and marked the first time in eight
games the Mets scored more than two runs.  Ronny Cedeno led off the fourth inning with a single and
scored on Dickey’s infield single to put New York ahead 1-0. The
Mets sealed the win with  Justin Turner’s  leadoff home run in the
sixth.  Scott Hairston  singled in the eighth and later scored on
Jason Bay’s single to right field to account for the final score.  In other action, it was the Chicago White Sox 5, Seattle 4;
Oakland 4, Tampa Bay 2; Texas 9, Minnesota 3; Colorado 4,
Chicago Cubs 3; Atlanta 7, San Francisco 3; Cincinnati 8, St.
Louis 2; Detroit 5, Los Angeles Angels 3; Pittsburgh 4,
Milwaukee 0; Baltimore 8, Toronto 2; Philadelphia 4, Washington
2; San Diego 9,  Arizona  3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Wilmington, Delaware at   ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  