-- 
Madrid Airport Gets Six Bids, Led by Ferrovial, Spanish Builders

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-09-05T17:07:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/acciona-joins-with-fraport-fcc-with-siemens-in-spanish-hub-bids.html
Madrid Barajas  airport, which  Spain 
expects to raise at least 3.7 billion euros ($5.2 billion), drew
bids from six groups led by companies including local builders
 Ferrovial SA (FER) ,  Acciona SA (ANA) , FCC and Grupo Empresarial  San Jose .  Ferrovial, owner of London’s Heathrow airport, teamed with
Canada Pension Plan Investment Board, Australia’s Industry Funds
Management Pty Ltd. and Infinity Investments of  Abu Dhabi , while
Acciona is bidding with Frankfurt airport operator Fraport AG.  The group led by Fomento de Construcciones & Contratas SA
includes Singapore’s Changi Airport Group, together with Munich-
based  Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Europe ’s biggest engineering company, state-
owned Aena Aeropuertos SA said today in a statement. Grupo San
Jose is bidding with Cedicor SA and Global Mirobriga, Aena said.  Spain is selling a contract to run Europe’s fourth-busiest
hub as it grapples with the euro-region’s biggest budget deficit
after Greece and Ireland. The other bidders, GMR Infrastructure
Ltd. of India and a group including  Aeroports de Paris (ADP) , Global
Infrastructure Partners of the U.S. and a unit of  Allianz SE (ALV) ,
didn’t identify Spanish members, according to today’s statement.  “This isn’t going to be an easy sale,” said Pablo Ortiz de Juan, an analyst at research firm Interdin Bolsa in  Madrid . “The
groups are going to start adding up the numbers and difficult
financing conditions and current economic growth prospects are
likely to lead to very prudent valuations.”  Barca Bids  Barcelona’s El Prat airport, valued at 1.6 billion euros by
Aena and also up for sale, drew bids from the same groups with
the exception of San Jose, while also receiving an offer from
 Abertis Infraestructuras SA (ABE) , based in the Catalan city, allied
to Borealis Infrastructure of  Canada  and Ibervias.  Madrid airport last year attracted 49.8 million passengers,
an increase of 2.8 percent, according to industry group Airport
Councils International. The home-base of Iberia, Spain’s biggest
airline, added a fourth terminal and two runways in 2006, giving
it the capacity to 70 million people annually.  Barcelona ranked as the 10th-busiest European airport in
2010, with 29.2 million passengers. A revamped Terminal 1 opened
in 2009 and a further satellite will be added next year, giving
a capacity of 55 million people.  The seven groups lodged their approaches for the airports
as part of a pre-qualification process that ended today. The
winning bidders will take a 90.05 percent stake in each base,
according to terms laid out by Development Minister Jose Blanco.  Airport Experience  Contracts will run for 20 years, extendable by a further
five. Interested parties must prove that they have at least 3
billion euros in assets and experience running an airport that
handled 25 million people or more in 2010. Aena said it will
look at the proposals and declare which are compliant next week.  Ferrovial bought Heathrow-owner BAA Ltd. for 10 billion
pounds ($16 billion) in 2006. The U.K. unit runs a total of six
airports in England and Scotland, together with Cerro Moreno at
Antofagasta in Chile.  Madrid-based Acciona is Spain’s main independent airport
ground-handling operator and also provides handling in
Frankfurt, Berlin and Hamburg. Its other businesses include
civil engineering and water services, and it ranks as Spain’s
second-largest wind-farm owner.  Partner Fraport confirmed last month that it had made a
joint bid with Deutsche Bank’s RREEF investment unit for German
builder  Hochtief AG ’s airport assets, which include the main
hubs in Athens and Sydney. Hochtief is itself part of Spanish
building group Actividades de Construccion & Servicios SA.  Barcelona-based Abertis has interests in 29 airports and
runs  London  Luton and Stockholm Skavsta through its Tbi unit.
Abertis was studying a bid for both concessions while awaiting
detail on the pricing regime and other terms before coming up
with a definitive evaluation, it said last month.  Investment fund GIP has owned  London Gatwick  since 2009,
while Bangalore-based GMR runs airports in Delhi and Hyderabad.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  