-- 
Macquarie May Bid for RBS Aircraft Leasing Unit, Review Says

-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 
2011-09-05T23:24:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/macquarie-may-bid-for-rbs-aircraft-leasing-unit-review-says.html
Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  is preparing to
bid for  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ’s aircraft-leasing
business, the Australian Financial Review reported, citing
people familiar with the matter.  Initial offers for the unit, which may fetch between $6
billion and $8 billion, are due Sept. 9, the newspaper said.
Macquarie has considered buying the whole division, part of it,
or bidding as part of a consortium, according to the Australian
Financial Review.  Edinburgh-based Royal Bank of  Scotland , Britain’s biggest
government-owned bank, is selling units after taking 45.5
billion pounds ($73 billion) of government funding during the
2008 financial crisis, more than any other bank in the world.  Macquarie, which would become the world’s third-largest
lessor of planes, is seeking to bolster earnings in volatile
markets, according to today’s report. Navleen Prasad, a Sydney-
based spokeswoman for Macquarie,  Australia ’s largest investment
bank, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment on the
report.  Royal Bank of Scotland has hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
to prepare the sale of the aircraft-leasing business, a person
familiar with the situation said in May.  Goldman Sachs hasn’t offered financing to potential buyers
of the leasing business to fund the deal, the Australian
Financial Review said. General Electric Co. and Terra Firma
Capital Partners Ltd. are among other interested parties, the
newspaper said.  Macquarie in April 2010 agreed to pay about $2 billion to
buy a portfolio of 53 planes from American International Group
Inc.’s aircraft-leasing unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  