-- 
Adele Should Win Mercury Prize: Why, Like Amy, She Likely Won’t

-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 
2011-09-05T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/adele-should-win-mercury-prize-why-like-amy-she-likely-won-t-preview.html
This has been the year of Adele Adkins. Her album “21” has won critical raves and sold eight
million copies, more than Lady Gaga. So it’s the frontrunner for
tonight’s 2011  Barclaycard Mercury Prize , right?  Wrong. The judges of Britain’s top music award have a
history of picking obscure artists. Adele knows that one of the
finest albums of the last decade, “Back to Black” by Amy Winehouse, lost out in 2007 to “Myths of the Near Future” by
the little-known Klaxons.  The Mercury is supposed to focus on CD quality, not sales,
media profile or live shows. That doesn’t square with reality,
where commercial artists often lose out to the cutting edge.  Adele’s  album  is as retro as Winehouse’s on tracks such as
“Rolling in the Deep” with its Aretha Franklin-style gospel.  Blur and Pulp were beaten by the so-hip-it-hurts M People
in 1994,  Robbie Williams  by too-cool-for-school Gomez in 1998.
Both victors faltered after. The mercurial award is often seen
as an albatross that also finished off Roni Size & Reprazent,
Speech Debelle and Talvin Singh.  The prize is 20,000 pounds ($32,210), although the initial
boost from album sales can be worth much more. It’s true that
Adele, 23, doesn’t exactly need the money or fame. That might 
also apply to another star on the shortlist, Tinie Tempah, 
whose pop profile has already been helped by his success at 
the Brits and Ivor Novello awards.  Hot Frontrunner  Trying to predict a winner from the 12 hopefuls isn’t easy.
There’s a long history of surprises. The betting frontrunner is
P.J. Harvey’s “Let England Shake,” a fiery state-of-the-nation
sketch, braver than Adele’s recording.  Only problem is that Harvey has been nominated four times
and won in 2001: previous winners are often sidelined. That’s
also likely to count against Elbow, whose workmanlike “Build a
Rocket Boys!” is on a par with its 2008 winner.  Anna Calvi ’s eponymous debut would be a more likely choice:
a lesser-known talent, praised by  Brian Eno  and with intense
songs such as “Rider to the Sea” (though the equally
impressive Bat for Lashes and Florence & the Machine were beaten
by Debelle in a 2009 miscarriage of justice).  Katy B ’s “ On a Mission ” features dance music by someone
who actually likes dancing. Everything Everything and  Metronomy 
are two groups making crafted music. All of these have a chance.  The  James Blake  CD is a little too downbeat, though
anything is possible after the xx won last year -- a worthy
choice for a change.  Outsiders  The veteran King Creosote & Jon Hopkins, songwriter
Ghostpoet and jazz-classical crossover Gwilym Simcock look like
the token-choice outsiders. So they probably will win.  It’s fine that the Mercury champions lesser-known
musicians, though more openness would be welcome about the
judging (the panel is made up of musicians, executives and some
writers whose names aren’t disclosed), selection process and
involvement of  record companies : The prize was first established
by the British Phonographic Industry.  Especially when some of the best music doesn’t even get
onto the July shortlist, which is limited to British or Irish
artists’ releases in the previous 12 months. Where are Robert Plant & Band of Joy, Radiohead, Vaccines, Streets, Arctic
Monkeys, British Sea Power? They won’t be on the winners’ podium
either and they probably all should be.  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section of
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in  London  at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 