-- 
Thai Finance Chief Defends Sovereign Fund Plan

-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 
2011-09-05T04:46:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/thai-finance-chief-defends-sovereign-fund-plan.html
Thai Finance Minister Thirachai Phuvanatnaranubala said the establishment of a sovereign wealth
fund may help the central bank narrow losses on its currency and
bond investments.  “It’s a suggestion to help resolve the problem,”
Thirachai wrote on his official Facebook page yesterday. “While
the central bank hasn’t asked the government to help fund its
losses, the assets of the Bank of  Thailand  are national assets.
They should be better managed.”  Thirachai asked the central bank last week to consider
using part of the country’s foreign reserves to establish a fund
that would invest in infrastructure projects. Former Finance
Minister Korn Chatikavanij said any decision should be made
independently by the Bank of Thailand, and the government’s
promotion of the proposal could erode investor confidence.  “The retaining of reserves is principally in order to
build confidence, and having political appointees sounding off
about sovereign wealth funds and where such funds should be
invested does not bode well for confidence that reserves will be
independently and professionally managed,” Korn said by phone.  Thailand’s foreign-exchange reserves have expanded 10
percent to $189.4 billion this year, according to data from the
central bank. The Bank of Thailand reported a net loss of 117.5
billion baht ($3.92 billion) last year, including a loss of
260.2 billion baht on the revaluation of its reserves, according
to its  website .  ‘Preliminary Idea’  “This is just a preliminary idea,” Thirachai told
reporters today in Bangkok, confirming the comments he made
online. “To set up the fund, we must have enough reserves to
back up the issuance of bank notes.”  Korn said he’s not “theoretically” opposed to the
creation of a sovereign fund.  “But the decision as to whether it should be set up and
definitely the decision as to when it is set up, or if it’s set
up where the funds should be invested, should rest solely with
the central bank, and perhaps the central bank plus some non-
political experts, but should not be something that the
government, any government, should be talking about.”  The  Government of Singapore Investment Corp. , established
in 1981, manages more than $100 billion of  Singapore ’s reserves,
including investments in Citigroup Inc. and UBS AG.  Temasek Holdings Pte, Singapore’s state-owned investment
company, manages S$193 billion ($160 billion). Temasek, set up
in 1974, generates profit from the income of the companies it
owns, and not government budget surpluses or oil revenue.  Khazanah, CIC  Malaysia’s state-owned Khazanah Nasional Bhd. has 75
billion ringgit ($25.2 billion) of  assets  including investments
in more than 50 local and overseas companies, according to its
latest annual review.  China  Investment Corp., set up in 2007 with $200 billion in
initial capital, managed $409.6 billion as of the end of 2010,
making China’s sovereign wealth fund the world’s fifth-biggest
country fund, according to the  Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute .  Thirachai said Thailand’s central bank could manage the
fund and deduct expenses before transferring any profit to the
government.  “There are always risks from any kind of investments,” he
said. “It depends on how we will manage the risks.”  Thirachai also said he wants to accelerate a plan to allow
more international banks to operate in Thailand. He didn’t
provide a time frame.  “I am thinking about financial liberalization by allowing
top banks in Asean or Asean plus three countries to set up
offices and do businesses in Thailand,” Thirachai said. “This
should benefit our trade and stimulate competition.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net ;
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  