-- 
Air France Plans Jobs Freeze, Deeper Capacity Cuts to Defend Profitability

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t
-- 
2011-09-05T15:20:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/air-france-maintains-full-year-profit-forecast-seeks-more-structural-cuts.html
Air France-KLM (AF)  Group,  Europe ’s
largest airline, declined as much as 7.5 percent in Paris
trading after saying it will deepen capacity cuts and is
discussing a hiring freeze with unions to defend earnings goals.  Chief Executive Officer Pierre-Henri Gourgeon will “seek a
consensus to reduce structural costs in a context of economic
uncertainty,” Jean-Charles Trehan, a spokesman for the Paris-
based airline, said today. A target for a positive operating
profit still stands, he said.  Air France, which had a loss of 145 million-euro ($205
million) in the quarter ended June 30, will post a full-year
operating profit of 25 million euros, according to the average
of eight analyst estimates. The company, which is switching its
accounting to the calendar year, earned 122 million euros in the
12 months to March 31, its first profit in three years.  “The outlook for all major airlines is deteriorating,
especially in crucial premium traffic, but the starting point is
clearly weaker for Air France,” said Andrew Lobbenberg, a
London-based analyst at RBS. “While it’s incumbent on all of
them to take some action, it’s even more important for Air
France to manage their capacity down and attack their cost
base,” he said.  Air France’s 2011 guidance and analyst forecasts compare
with average full-year operating profit estimates of 1.09
billion euros for  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  and 644 million euros
for International Consolidated Airlines Group SA, formed from
the merger of British Airways and Iberia.  Share Performance  Air France fell as much as 48 cents to 5.92 euros, the
biggest intraday drop since Aug. 18, and was down 5.8 percent at
5:04 p.m. in Paris. The stock has plunged 56 percent this year,
the worst performance on the Bloomberg EMEA Airlines Index.  High fuel prices and a decline in business and consumer
confidence will clip growth and lead to a weaker end to the year
for an  airline industry  in which earnings have already been
squeezed after unrest in the  Middle East  and an earthquake in
 Japan , the  International Air Transport Association  said Sept 1.  Air France will drop more capacity for the coming winter
season and next summer, Trehan said. The group had already
trimmed planned winter seating growth to 2.7 percent from 5.1
percent in July, two months after announcing a 10 percent seat
reduction for its joint venture with  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)   Productivity  Air France also said in July it would achieve 500 million
euros in savings this year from improvements in productivity and
procurement, an increase on the 470 million euros first pledged.  Trehan declined to elaborate on the additional cuts being
presented to unions today. A union representative who declined
to be indentified confirmed the planned hiring freeze and said
that no job reductions are planned.  IATA says a 0.4 percent decline in July freight traffic
indicates the likely trend for passenger demand, which increased
5.9 percent for the month, since cargo volumes generally fall
first. The last slump and financial crisis cost airlines about
two years of growth, the organization says.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  