-- 
Leopard-Trek, RadioShack Cycling Teams Join Forces for 2012, 2013 Seasons

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-09-06T01:59:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/andy-schleck-s-cycling-team-will-close-join-radio-shack-l-equipe-says.html
Luxembourg’s first Tour de France
team, Leopard-Trek, will merge with  Lance Armstrong ’s former
RadioShack team to form a new cycling squad for the 2012 and
2013 seasons.  The team, which will feature top riders from both rosters,
will be rebranded as the RadioShack-Nissan-Trek Professional
Cycling Team and use Leopard-Trek’s existing  World Tour  license,
Leopard-Trek said on its website last night. The Luxembourg-
based team will be managed by  Johan Bruyneel .  “In modern cycling you cannot move forward without strong
sponsors,” Leopard-Trek owner Flavio Becca said in a  statement .
“I have high expectations for the performance of this team.
This is a major strategic move for all partners involved.”  The merger links Leopard-Trek, currently the No. 1 team on
the  Union Cycliste Internationale ’s World Tour rankings, with
eighth-ranked RadioShack.  Andy and  Frank Schleck , who finished July’s Tour de France
second and third overall, will continue to lead the team with
time trial world champion Fabian Cancellara, Leopard-Trek said.
They’ll be joined by Tour of California winner Chris Horner and
two-time Tour de France runner-up Andreas Kloden of RadioShack.  The 30-rider roster and staff will be a combination from
the current teams, RadioShack said in a  statement , adding that
further details will be released by Sept. 15.  “All contracts with riders and staff that are already
signed with Team Leopard-Trek or Team RadioShack will be
respected,” Bruyneel said in the statement. “We are grateful
our sponsors believe in this project. This is a great milestone
for our team and our global sport.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  