-- 
Rio, Anglo Aim to Sell $700 Million Holding in Copper Producer Palabora

-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 
2011-09-05T16:25:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/anglo-american-rio-tinto-aiming-to-sell-their-holdings-in-palabora-mining.html
Rio Tinto Group and  Anglo American
Plc (AAL) , which together own about three-quarters of Palabora Mining
Co., said they plan to sell their entire holdings in the South
African miner as it no longer fits their investment objectives.  Palabora’s main asset, a mine that produces copper and
magnetite, “is no longer of a sufficient scale” for either Rio
or Anglo, and a sale process for their stakes has started, the
companies said today. Rio holds about 58 percent of Palabora and
London-based Anglo almost 17 percent. Their combined holding is
valued at about $700 million based on the closing price of
Palabora stock in Johannesburg trading today.  The  Palabora operation  accounted for 8 percent of Rio’s
mined copper output in the first half of this year, according to
Liberum Capital Ltd. The Phalaborwa, Limpopo province-based
company is  South Africa ’s only producer of refined copper, with
output of about 80,000 metric tons annually.  Mining is scheduled to end at Palabora’s operation in early
2016, while a study to extend the mine’s life to 2030 is under
way, Rio said. The company, which has been an investor since
Palabora Mining was incorporated in 1956, declined to estimate
the cost of prolonging the production period, in an e-mailed
response to queries.  “Rio Tinto is no longer the natural owner of Palabora due
to the limited opportunity to significantly expand copper
mining,”  Andrew Harding , chief executive officer of Rio’s
copper unit, said in a statement.  ‘Solid Future’  “We believe Palabora has a solid future under an owner who
can develop the magnetite business alongside the existing copper
and vermiculite operations,” Harding said.  Palabora Mining’s copper smelter would need investment to
ensure it complies with emissions legislation due in 2016. Rio
declined to estimate the cost of this, in its e-mailed response
to questions.  Palabora has advanced 44 percent in the last 12 months,
giving it a market value of 6.74 billion rand ($945 million.)
The stock declined 2.3 percent to close at 139.51 rand today.
The balance of is shares are held by private investors.  Rio Tinto , the world’s second-largest mining company, fell
5.1 percent to 3,488.5 pence at the close of London trading
today. Anglo American dropped 3.6 percent to 2,368.5 pence.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  