-- 
Aquamarine Power Receives Barclays Loan for Scottish Wave Plant

-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 
2011-09-05T11:08:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/aquamarine-power-receives-barclays-loan-for-scottish-wave-plant.html
Aquamarine Power Ltd., a Scottish
developer of wave technology, got a loan from  Barclays Plc (BARC) , the
first bank to offer funds for a U.K. marine energy project.  “For us this opens the door to securing debt finance for
our first pre-commercial 10-megawatt project which will commence
in 2014,” Martin McAdam, chief executive officer of Aquamarine,
said in a statement today. “The key for the industry will be
finding the means to secure debt for these early stage projects
without the need to rely on parent company support.”  Barclays Corporate will loan 3.4 million pounds ($5.5
million) to Edinburgh-based Aquamarine for five years, the power
company said in the statement. It will use the money to complete
a 2.4-megawatt installation at the European Marine Energy Centre
in Orkney,  Scotland , adding two wave-power devices in 2012 and
2013 to the one already installed.  Wave and tidal stream energy would eventually be capable of
providing as much as 20 percent of current U.K. power demand,
 the government  says. Scotland aims to supply the equivalent of
all its power needs from renewable sources by 2020 and has the
potential to provide up to a quarter of  Europe ’s tidal power and
a 10th of its wave power, according to the Scottish government.  The marine  energy industry  last year raised $58 million,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance data. By comparison
the wind industry raised $7.59 billion in public markets and
$1.33 billion in private capital. ABB Ltd., a power-grid
supplier, in November invested 8 million pounds in Aquamarine.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 Ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg in London at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  