-- 
Ashtead, BP, RBS, Ryanair, Whitbread: U.K., Irish Equity Preview

-- B y   B l a n c h e   G a t t   a n d   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-09-06T06:37:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/ashtead-group-bp-ryanair-holdings-u-k-irish-equity-preview.html
The following is a list of companies
that may have unusual share-price changes in U.K. and Irish
markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses and prices are from
the last market close.  The FTSE 100 Index fell 189.45 points, or 3.6 percent, to
5,102.58 yesterday. The FTSE All-Share Index dropped 3.4 percent
and Ireland’s ISEQ Index declined 3.5 percent.  Ashtead Group Plc (AHT)  : The U.K. equipment-rental
company reported a 12 percent gain in first-quarter revenue to
268.6 million pounds ($432 million). The shares retreated 2.4
percent to 112 pence.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  : Global regulators may ease new
rules requiring banks to hold more liquid assets to weather a
funding crisis amid lenders’ claims that the regulations may
curtail lending, the Financial Times reported.  Members of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision want
to soften key technical definitions of the so-called “liquidity
coverage ratio,” due to take effect in 2015, the FT said,
citing people familiar with the discussions. Barclay’s dropped
6.7 percent to 154.15 pence.  BP Plc (BP/)  : Chief Executive Officer Robert Dudley said
investors want “clarity and certainty” after Russian bailiffs
raided the Moscow office and  Halliburton Co. (HAL)   filed suit
over the Gulf of Mexico oil spill last year. The shares fell 3
percent to 363.2 pence.  CRH Plc (CRH)  : Russian billionaire Oleg Deripaska may
sell as much as 75 percent in the cement unit of his Basic
Element holding company to the Irish company, Kommersant
reported, citing unidentified people with knowledge of the
plans. The shares fell 5.5 percent to 11.12 euros in Dublin.  Greene King Plc (GNK)  : The U.K. brewer of Old Speckled
Hen ale said its margins, profit, cashflow and balance sheet
remain “in line” with management expectations. The shares lost
2.9 percent to 431.5 pence.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  : Macquarie Group
Ltd. is preparing to bid for RBS’s aircraft-leasing business,
the Australian Financial Review reported, citing people familiar
with the matter.  Initial offers for the unit, which may fetch between $6
billion and $8 billion, are due Sept. 9, the newspaper said.
Macquarie has considered buying the whole division, part of it,
or bidding as part of a consortium, according to the Australian
newspaper. The stock dropped 12 percent to 21.78 pence.  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  :  Europe ’s biggest discount
carrier canceled 200 flights to and from Italy due to plans for
a general strike, the carrier said in an e-mailed statement. The
CGIL labor union has called a strike to protest the austerity
measures approved by Italy’s government last month. The stock
dropped 4.2 percent to 2.95 euros.  Whitbread Plc (WTB)  : The U.K.’s largest hotel and
restaurant operator said sales growth accelerated in the second
quarter, led by stronger performances at Premier Inn budget
hotels and Costa coffee shops. The shares lost 2.5 percent to
1,457 pence.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blanche Gatt in London at 
 bgatt@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  