-- 
Asia Stocks Slide as Europe Debt Crisis Worsens; Hong Kong Surges to Close

-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-09-06T10:51:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/asian-stocks-decline-after-u-s-employment-report-fuels-recession-concerns.html
Asian stocks fell on concern Europe
may be unable to halt the spread of its sovereign-debt crisis,
denting the outlook for the global economy. The regional
benchmark pared its decline after Hong Kong reversed losses.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) , Japan’s biggest lender
by market value, declined 2.7 percent after the cost of insuring
against default on European sovereign and financial debt surged
to records.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s No. 1 mining company,
slumped 2.2 percent after commodity prices declined. Kansai
Electric Power Co., a Japanese nuclear-power operator, jumped
3.5 percent after the country’s new leader indicated atomic
power will continue to be used.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index pared losses as Hong Kong’s
Hang Seng Index reversed a 1.7 percent drop to gain 0.5 percent
after European markets opened higher. The MSCI Asia-Pacific
gauge fell 1.3 percent to 119.19 at 7:40 p.m. in Tokyo, with
three stocks falling for each two that rose.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average decreased 2.2 percent.
South Korea’s Kospi Index retreated 1.1 percent. China’s
Shanghai Composite index dropped 0.3 percent after swinging
between losses of 0.8 percent and a gain of 0.1 percent.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific measure slumped 8.6 percent last
month, the most since May 2010, amid concern global economic
growth is slowing as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis spreads and
after Standard & Poor’s cut the U.S. credit rating.  “It’s another market riot,” said Nader Naeimi, a Sydney-
based strategist for AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which manages
almost $100 billion. “Volatility is likely to remain high until
there’s clarity around Europe’s ability to work out a lasting
solution. Right now, it seems policy makers are going in the
opposite direction. While the fundamentals in Asia are in better
shape than elsewhere, shares here will get caught up in the
crossfire.”  Greece Rift  Stocks fell as an election loss for German Chancellor
Angela Merkel’s party and reports of a rift between Greece and
the International Monetary Fund fueled concern that support for
bailing out indebted European nations is waning.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index fell 1.6 percent as the
Reserve Bank of Australia left its benchmark interest rate
unchanged for a ninth straight meeting, citing unstable
financial markets and weaker growth prospects at home and
abroad.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index swung between gains and losses
today after plunging 4.1 percent to 223.45 yesterday, when all
19 industry groups fell as it suffered its biggest two-day drop
since March 2009. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures expiring
in September retreated 1.5 percent after falling as much as 2.8
percent today. U.S. stock markets were closed yesterday for the
Labor Day holiday.  Mounting Concern  Stocks declined as investors drove yields higher on the
bonds of Greece, Portugal, Spain and Italy on doubt that
Europe’s leaders will be able to stop the crisis spreading.  The
yield on the Greek two-year note rose above its price for the
first time yesterday, indicating mounting concern the nation
will default on the debt.  Deutsche Bank AG Chief Executive Officer Josef Ackermann
said yesterday in Frankfurt that conditions in stock and bond
markets were reminiscent of the financial crisis of late 2008.  Bank shares were the biggest contributors to the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index’s decline. Mitsubishi UFJ fell 2.7 percent to 325
yen in Tokyo, the biggest drag on Japan’s Topix index. National
Australia Bank Ltd. sank 2.8 percent to A$22.14. HSBC Holdings
Plc., Europe’s largest bank by market value, declined 1.8
percent to HK$64.10 in Hong Kong.  ‘Banking Crisis’  “There’s growing concern that the sovereign-debt crisis in
the EU is now manifesting into a sharp slowdown in the economy
and a banking crisis,” said Stephen Halmarick, Sydney-based
head of investment markets research at Colonial First State
Global Asset Management, which oversees about $150 billion.
“There is a real sense this could get worse before it gets
better. Equity and bond markets are reflecting this increased
level of concern.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 12 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a 6.7 percent drop by the S&P
500 and a 19 percent loss by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks
in the Asian benchmark are valued at 11.7 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 11.7 times for the S&P 500
and 9.3 times for the Stoxx 600.  Raw-material producers and commodity related shares slid
today as metals and crude oil prices fell during Asian trade.  BHP, Mitsui  BHP dropped 2.2 percent to A$36.88 in Sydney, the biggest
contributor to the MSCI Asia Pacific Index’s decline. Japanese
commodity trading company Mitsui & Co. declined 4.5 percent to
1,205 yen in Tokyo.  The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six
industrial metals including copper and aluminum slid 1.6 percent
yesterday. Crude oil for October delivery fell as much as 3.5
percent to $83.42 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York
Mercantile Exchange.  Among stocks that rose, Kansai Electric led Japanese
electricity supply companies higher after the nation’s new prime
minister said atomic power is needed to save the economy after
the worst nuclear accident in 25 years led his predecessor to
call for an end to atomic energy.  Kansai Electric jumped 3.5 percent to 1,429 yen while Chubu
Electric Power Co. increased 2.6 percent to 1,528 yen. Tokyo
Electric Power Co., the utility at the center of the nuclear
crisis, advanced 1.3 percent to 384 yen.  Utilities posted the biggest gains among the 10 industry
groups on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index.  Late Surge  Shares in Hong Kong rose, propelling the Hang Seng Index to
a 437-point increase in the last 76 minutes of trade, after
European markets gained today. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose
as much as 0.7 percent after the biggest two-day drop since 2008
left it trading at the cheapest in more than two years.  Esprit Holdings Ltd., a global clothing retailer that gets
more than 80 percent of its sales in Europe, surged 4.9 percent
to HK$19.96. Cosco Pacific Ltd., which operates container
facilities at Greece’s Piraeus port, climbed 0.5 percent to
HK$9.85.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s biggest offshore oil explorer,
increased 0.3 percent to HK$13.88, reversing an earlier loss of
as much as 4.8 percent.  Ministers from Germany, Finland and the Netherlands will
meet today to discuss a Finnish demand for collateral in a
bailout for Greece, while the Italian Senate will debate an
austerity plan amid a strike.  “The political stuff is too hard to call,” said Don Williams, chief investment officer at Platypus Asset Management
Ltd. in Sydney, which has about $1.1 billion under management.
“What’s happening right now doesn’t always make sense. You
could get a great a great rally in Europe in the morning, and
the U.S. could ruin it in the afternoon. The volatility is still
very elevated in some markets. You’ve just got to ride it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  