-- 
Asian Currencies Decline, Led by South Korea’s Won, on Weak U.S. Jobs Data

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-09-05T08:30:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/asian-currencies-decline-led-by-south-korea-s-won-on-weak-u-s-jobs-data.html
Asian currencies declined, led by
South  Korea ’s won, as weaker-than-expected jobs data prompted
concern the world’s largest economy may slip into recession,
dimming the region’s export outlook.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of shares lost 2.6 percent
after a report on Sept. 2 showed U.S. payrolls were unchanged
last month. Economists expected an increase of 68,000, a
Bloomberg survey showed.  Germany ’s top constitutional court will
rule this week in three cases challenging the country’s
participation in the Greek bailout and the euro-area rescue fund.  “U.S. payrolls were very disappointing,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in
 Singapore . “The potential for fresh policy stimulus measures
from the Federal Reserve should limit the fallout for equity
markets and Asian currencies.”  The won weakened 0.5 percent to 1,068.84 per dollar at the
3 p.m. close in  Seoul , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Malaysia’s ringgit fell 0.3 percent to 2.9750, while the
Philippine peso dropped 0.1 percent to 42.188.  China ’s yuan
declined 0.05 percent to 6.3860.  The U.S. payroll reading was the weakest since September
2010. The Fed, which is scheduled to review policy at a Sept.
20-21 meeting, has kept its benchmark  interest rate  at a maximum
0.25 percent since 2008 and announced two rounds of bond buying
that boost the supply of dollars.  Dollar Sales  The won fell the most in two weeks as global funds sold
more Korean stocks than they bought, following net purchases of
$1.17 billion last week. Korean financial markets will be closed
Sept. 12 and 13 for public holidays.  “Employment data in the U.S has shifted market sentiment
to risk-averse, weakening the won,” said Byeon Ji Young, a
currency analyst at Woori Futures Co. in Seoul. “Still,
exporters’ dollar sales to repatriate income before the Chuseok
holiday and expectations for more stimulus by the  Federal
Reserve  may limit currency losses.”  The  Bank of Korea  will review its benchmark interest rate
on Sept. 8. Nine out of 13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
predict the rate will be left at 3.25 percent, while four expect
it will be lifted by a quarter of a percentage point.  The ringgit snapped a three-day advance on speculation the
slowing global economy will deter policy makers from raising
borrowing costs when they meet this week. The central bank will
leave the overnight rate unchanged at 3 percent when it meets on
Sept. 8, according to all 18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Worries of a global economic slowdown are reducing risk
appetite,” said Yeo Chin Tiong, head of financial markets at
Alliance Bank Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur . “The Malaysian currency
will likely trade on a weaker bias.”  Elsewhere, the Singapore dollar and Taiwan’s dollar fell
0.2 percent to S$1.2064 and NT$29.071 against their U.S.
counterpart, respectively. Thailand’s baht was unchanged at
29.93. Indonesia’s rupiah advanced 0.3 percent to 8,542 from Aug.
26. Financial markets in the Southeast Asian nation were closed
last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  