-- 
Asian Companies Won’t Jump on Slumping Prices, Citigroup Says

-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 
2011-09-05T04:34:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/asian-companies-won-t-jump-on-slumping-prices-citigroup-says.html
Colin Banfield, Asia-Pacific head of
mergers and acquisitions at  Citigroup Inc. (C) , comments on the
outlook for mergers and acquisitions in the region and how it
will be affected by recent market turmoil.  On  Asia  companies’ M&A strategies:  “In Asia, there is typically a four- to six-month time lag
before M&A deal activity starts getting seriously impacted by a
market upturn or downturn.  “Asian companies aren’t really bottom fishers nor that
opportunistic when it comes to taking immediate advantage of a
market dislocation. It normally takes a considerable amount of
lead time to identify, analyze and then to execute on a
strategic opportunity.  “In a falling and volatile market, most Asian buyers would
wish to establish that the bottom of the market has been reached
and some stability has returned before proceeding with their
transactions.”  On potential fire sales of assets:  “Although the American and European economies are facing
some severe and potentially prolonged structural challenges, the
current situation isn’t necessarily desperate enough whereby
American and European corporates are compelled to sell
themselves or to offload assets.”  On the M&A outlook for Asia:  “Over the medium and longer term, I have high expectations
that there will be much more outbound from Asia M&A activity
given the relative weakening of the European and U.S. economies.  “Asia M&A is very much driven by the strategic needs of
companies rather than by arbitraging a short term valuation
opportunity. Financing for Asian buyers hasn’t been a constraint
so far.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  