-- 
Australia’s Southeastern Grain Regions May Get Rains This Week

-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 
2011-09-05T07:24:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/australia-s-southeastern-grain-regions-may-get-rains-this-week.html
Grain-growing regions in the
southeast of  Australia , the world’s third-biggest wheat shipping
nation, may get rain this week as farmers seek to ensure yields
ahead of harvesting.  Most of New South Wales and Victoria states may receive as
much as 5 millimeters (0.2 inches) of rain in the four days to
Sept. 8, according to the  Bureau  of Meteorology. Parts of
southeast New South Wales and northeast Victoria may receive
between 10 millimeters and 25 millimeters in the period,
according to the bureau’s website.  “There’s a couple of fronts expected in the next few days;
the first one’s coming through tomorrow and then there’s another
front more into Wednesday, Thursday,”  David Jones , head of
climate monitoring and prediction at the bureau, said by phone
today. “They will be bringing a little bit of rain.”  Australian grain growers need rains through September to
shore up wheat plantings ahead of the harvest that begins around
late October. Analysts at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd.,  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  and National Australian
Bank Ltd. all cut their wheat-production estimates last month,
citing dry weather in the east. ANZ reduced its forecast again
last week on east coast conditions.  Western Australia, potentially the nation’s biggest wheat-
producing state in the 2011-2012 harvest, is likely to remain
“very dry” for the next eight days, Jones said.  ANZ cut its production forecast 4 percent to 24 million
metric tons on Sept. 2 because of dry conditions in eastern
growing areas, after lowering its estimate 3.8 percent last
month. National Australia Bank and Commonwealth Bank last month
lowered their harvest estimates 12 percent and 3.3 percent
respectively, citing dry conditions on the east coast.  Melbourne , the capital of Victoria state, has had 17
consecutive days without measurable rain, the longest dry spell
for this time of year since about 1899, according to Jones.  “It’s pretty typical across most of southeast Australia,”
he said. “There’s just been no rainfall for nearly three weeks,
which is very unusual for this time of year.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  