-- 
Australia Farm Confidence Falls on Volatility Concern, Rabobank Says

-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 
2011-09-05T04:46:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/australia-farm-confidence-falls-on-volatility-concern-rabobank-says.html
Rural confidence in  Australia , the
third-largest wheat exporter, dropped to the lowest level in
more than two years amid global economic turmoil and concerns
about domestic government policies, Rabobank International said.  A survey completed about a month ago found the number of
farmers expecting conditions to worsen in the coming year
increased to 35 percent from 12 percent in the previous quarter,
Rabobank’s Australian  unit  said in an e-mailed statement today.
It also showed that 18 percent of farmers expected conditions to
improve in the coming year, down from 42 percent last quarter.  “While the Australian economy and agricultural
fundamentals remained strong, it appeared some of the global
turmoil, which was occurring at the time of the survey, had
rubbed off on farmer sentiment,” Rabobank General Manager Rural
Australia Peter Knoblanche said in the statement. The survey
also highlighted concerns about the suspension of live cattle
exports to  Indonesia , the proposed carbon tax and the impact of
coal-seam gas exploration and mining on agriculture, he said.  A U.S. credit-rating downgrade, concerns about a global
recession and continued European sovereign-debt woes wiped out
more than $4 trillion in stock market value in August, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Australia on June 8 banned
livestock exports to Indonesia, its biggest market, after
television footage showed animals being tortured in
slaughterhouses. Sales were allowed to resume in July.  Cattle farmers reported the lowest confidence, with only 8
percent expecting conditions to improve in the next year,
according to the statement. A higher Australian dollar was also
affecting returns for producers, Knoblanche said.  All states recorded weaker sentiment compared to the
previous quarter, according to Rabobank. Queensland state
recorded the lowest confidence levels in the survey, it said.  Still, seasonal  conditions  across much of Australia are
good or average, Knoblanche said in the statement. “There has
been enough rain to maintain the prospects for winter crops and
for pasture growth for graziers,” he said.  Wheat production in Australia may reach 25.25 million
metric tons in the 2011-2012 season, Rabobank said July 12.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  