-- 
Australia’s Refugee Uproar Ignores Founding Story: Iain McCalman

-- B y   I a i n   M c C a l m a n
-- 
2011-09-05T00:00:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/australia-s-refugee-uproar-ignores-founding-story-iain-mccalman.html
They came great distances across
dangerous seas in overcrowded ships to land at various points on
the coast. More than 800 boats made it during an 80-year period,
each carrying fragile human cargoes.  Lack of sanitation, poor food and disease were commonplace,
sexual and other forms of violence were frequent. Many of the
transportees were deemed major or persistent criminals; others -
- especially the women and children -- often were first
offenders. Some died on the passage; some were shipwrecked and
drowned. Not infrequently, the captains had learned their trade
as slavers.  On arrival, relatively few of these voyagers were
incarcerated: Most received “tickets of leave” to provide
forced labor for free settlers or government institutions. Some
resumed lives of crime in their new homeland; others prospered
and became pillars of the community. By the time the boats
stopped, there had been about 162,000 arrivals. These were in
large part modern-day Australia’s founding fathers and mothers.  Beginning in the mid-1970s, a different kind of “boat
people” began arriving on our shores, claiming asylum as non-
assessed refugees under the  1951 United Nations Convention
Relating to the Status of Refugees . Their numbers have
fluctuated since, but as  Tony Abbott , the leader of the
opposition  Liberal Party , often reminds us, “the boats keep
coming.”  ‘Pacific Solution’  Abbott, who campaigned last year on a pledge to restrict
the flow of asylum seekers, argues that the “Pacific Solution”
introduced by the Liberal government of Prime Minister  John Howard  managed to stop the boats by incarcerating “illegals”
in detention centers in Nauru and  Papua New Guinea  and then
processing them offshore.  True, the numbers have been small. In 2010, for example,
134 boats arrived, carrying a total of about 6,789 people, a
manageable figure compared with the hundreds of thousands of
people who illegally cross into the U.S. each year, or the
 millions of displaced people  currently flooding into refugee
camps in Pakistan and  Kenya .  Many  refugees  come to Australia from countries such as
Afghanistan and  Iraq , where Australian troops have recently been
fighting. Most arrive by air with valid passports and they apply
for “protection from persecution.” Our largest influxes of
actual illegal residents are tourists from the U.K. and
elsewhere who have overstayed their visas. Yet the false
portrayal of boat people as queue jumpers, moneyed criminals,
terrorists, imposters and welfare cheats continues to have
currency.  ‘Children Overboard’  At the same time, there is little to differentiate the
government and opposition asylum policies. Both parties clearly
believe that appearing soft on refugees will cost votes. Etched
into the collective political mind is the saga of Prime Minister
Howard and “the children overboard affair” of 2001. When the
MV Tampa, a Norwegian freighter carrying 438 Afghans who were
rescued from a sinking fishing boat, tried to enter Australian
waters, Howard ordered soldiers to board the ship.  In a later incident, his claims that asylum seekers aboard
a vessel threw their children into the water to ensure their
rescue and entry to  Australia  were proved to be unsubstantiated
and led to a Senate inquiry. Howard’s attempted introduction of
an emergency Border Protection Bill was defeated, but the tough
stance -- plus the contingent ripples of the Sept. 11 attacks --
are widely believed to have secured his re-election in 2001.  Malaysia Swap  Both major parties continue to support  mandatory detention .
Under Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s Labor Party government, a
rapid escalation in the number of detainees held on Australia’s
 Christmas Island  in the  Indian Ocean  has led to strict new
policies aimed at deterring “people smugglers” and their
victims. The government recently signed an agreement to send 800
asylum seekers to Malaysia in return for accepting a larger
number of people there who qualify as assessed refugees under
the UN convention.  This proposal was rejected as unlawful by the High Court on
Aug. 31. Lawyers on behalf of two asylum seekers argued that
since  Malaysia  hasn’t signed the UN refugee convention,
Australia has a duty of care not to expose their clients to the
risk of arbitrary punishment.  The irony of all this jockeying for the draconian high
ground is that both major parties may now be out of step with
the citizenry.  A Nielsen Poll  last month found that, though a
majority still favored mandatory detention for asylum seekers,
53 percent supported the idea of processing them on Australian
soil, a policy advocated only by the left-leaning Greens party.  Private Contractor  It’s difficult to know what has caused this apparent
softening of public opinion. Some may have been shocked by a
recent parliamentary inquiry into incidents at the Christmas
Island center, administered by the international security
company  Serco Group Plc. (SRP)  Among other troubling statistics,  the
probe   disclosed that 1,507 detainees had been hospitalized in
the first six months of this year, 72 as psychiatric admissions
and 213 for self-inflicted physical injuries.  Other commentators cite the emotional impact of an
acclaimed TV reality show called “Go Back to Where You Came
From,” featured on the multicultural television channel SBS.
Six contestants, all but one with negative views of boat people,
were sent to a variety of hot spots to interrogate would-be
refugees and their relatives. Ratings and tweets soared when the
program’s chief villain, Raquel Moore, a self-avowed African-
hater from a working-class suburb, showed a touching change of
heart when confronted with the anguish of a Congolese woman
whose family had been subjected to rape and murder.  Shifting Opinion  Conservative critics are cynical about what they believe to
be a biased and manipulative piece of television staging; and
even sympathetic analysts doubt that such sudden eruptions of
public empathy will translate into voting behavior. A few
pollsters deny that asylum seekers are a substantive issue for
any but a small hard core of Australian voters: those who want
to send the boats back out to sea.  Even after the  High Court ’s ruling on the Malaysian plan,
it is unlikely that the issue of asylum seekers will go away.
Figures collected by the UN at the end of 2009 showed that about
 43.3 million people  across the world had been displaced by
conflict and persecution.  Amid this global avalanche of pain, some compassionate
Australians may perhaps remember their own ancestral good
fortune in having once been transported to these shores in
overcrowded boats.  (Iain McCalman, a professor of history at the  University of
Sydney  and the author of “Darwin’s Armada,” is a Bloomberg
View columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Iain McCalman in Sydney at  iain.mccalman@arts.usyd.edu.au   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  