-- 
Australia TD Inflation Gauge Falls First Time in Nearly 2 Years

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-09-05T00:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/australia-td-inflation-gauge-falls-first-time-in-nearly-2-years.html
A gauge of  Australia ’s monthly
inflation declined in August for the first time since October
2009, led by cheaper fruit and vegetables.  Consumer prices slid 0.1 percent last month after a 0.3
percent increase in July, according to an index compiled by TD
Securities Inc. and the Melbourne Institute released in Sydney
today. Prices rose 2.9 percent from a year earlier following a
3.2 percent gain in July. The central bank aims to keep
inflation in a 2 percent to 3 percent range on average.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  will keep
the benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at 4.75 percent for a
ninth meeting tomorrow, according to all 25 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. Stevens said in testimony to lawmakers
last month that weaker  consumer confidence  driven by the rout in
global financial markets will help ease inflation pressures,
making it prudent to “sit still” on interest rates.  “The RBA board is in the enviable position of being able
to watch and observe from the sidelines for some time to digest
the implications of the domestic two-speed economy, and assess
the  implications, if any, of recent outsized volatility in
global financial markets,” said  Annette Beacher , head of Asia-
Pacific research at TD Securities in Singapore.  Since Stevens kept the developed world’s highest borrowing
costs unchanged on Aug. 2, investor confidence slumped after
 Standard & Poor’s  cut the U.S.’s credit rating and as Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis deepened.  Currency Pressure  Consumer confidence in Australia has also weakened in
recent months on signs parts of the economy are buckling under
the pressure of currency appreciation. The local dollar has
risen 17 percent in the past year and reached a record in July.  Today’s inflation report showed the price of fruit and
vegetables fell by 1.6 percent in August, following a rise of
1.8 percent in July. Holiday travel and accommodation, and auto,
visual and computing also declined, the report showed.  Australia’s economy is being driven by commodity exports.
Mining investment in the 12 months to June 30, 2012, is
projected at A$82.1 billion, 45 percent higher than in the
2010-2011 fiscal year, a government report showed last week.
Firms including BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s No. 1 mining
company, are expanding output to meet demand from China and
 India .  “An outsized resource-led private investment boom remains
on track, and productivity remains extremely weak, hence
inflation pressures remain firmly tilted to the upside for
2012,” Beacher said.  The Melbourne Institute is a research unit of Melbourne
University, and TD Securities is a division of Toronto-Dominion
Bank, Canada’s second-largest lender. The monthly inflation
index measures the prices of more than 1,000 goods and services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  