-- 
Australia Must ‘Hit the Ground Running’ at Rugby World Cup, Coach Says

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-09-05T08:32:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/australia-must-hit-the-ground-running-at-rugby-world-cup-coach-says.html
Australia will treat every match at
the Rugby  World Cup  as a knockout game as it bids to win the
trophy for an unprecedented third time, coach  Robbie Deans  said.  The Wallabies, the  No. 2 team  in the International Rugby
Board world rankings, open their campaign Sept. 11 against 11th-
ranked Italy in Auckland before further Pool C matches against
Ireland, the U.S. and  Russia .  “We understand that there’s first and nowhere, and that
will be the case in every instance and it starts for us next
Sunday against Italy,” Deans said at an official farewell
ceremony in Sydney today. “It’s not a matter of warming to our
work, we’ve got to hit the ground running.”  The top two from each of the four five-team groups advance
to the quarterfinals. Should finishing positions in the pools
follow the world rankings, 1991 and 1999 champion  Australia 
would meet No. 6  Wales  in the last eight on Oct. 8.  Australia enters the tournament as the bookmakers’ second
favorite to win the Webb Ellis Cup having secured their first
Tri-Nations championship since 2001 by beating top-ranked New
Zealand 25-20 in the final match on Aug. 27.  “The group we’ve got definitely has the ability to get the
result we want, but we can’t think too far ahead,” Wallabies
captain  James Horwill  told a crowd of about 2,000 at Sydney Town
Hall. “No matter who the opponent is we can’t just turn up and
expect the result to come our way.”  Australia is wise to the possibility of upsets after
slumping to a 32-23 home loss to Samoa on July 17, Deans said.
Ranked 10th by the IRB, Samoa had only managed a total of 26
points in losing its four previous matches with Australia.  “We’ve got those precedents fresh in our minds,” Deans
said. Samoa could meet Australia in the World Cup quarterfinals.  New Zealand  opens the 48-game tournament Sept. 9 against
Tonga in Auckland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  