-- 
AVI of South Africa Says Full-Year Profit Advances 36%, Missing Estimates

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-09-05T08:12:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/avi-operating-profit-from-continuing-operations-climbs-25-in-year-to-june.html
AVI Ltd. (AVI) ,  South Africa ’s third-
largest consumer goods company, said profit climbed 36 percent
in the year through June, missing analyst estimates.  Earnings per share excluding one-time items rose to 2.41
rand compared with 1.77 rand a year earlier, it said in a
statement published today. A median estimate of nine analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News was for earnings per share of 2.44
rand. Net income increased 49 percent to 697.8 million rand
($98.2 million).  “Consumer demand is likely to remain restrained in the
year ahead and AVI will need to earn future profit growth by
competing effectively in the marketplace and continuing to
reduce our cost of doing business,” AVI said.  The central bank has kept its benchmark interest rate
unchanged at 5.5 percent this year, the lowest in 30 years, to
help bolster retail spending in  Africa ’s biggest economy, which
rose 2.2 percent in June from a year earlier.  AVI will open 10 new Kurt Geiger men’s clothing stores in
the current financial year, taking its total to 25 stores, it
said. The company, which owns footwear brand  Spitz  and the I&J
food labels, said it opened 12 new Kurt Geiger stores in the
year ended June, bringing the total 15 stores.  “There is a strong portfolio of initiatives planned for
the next financial year, covering local and regional market
opportunities, factory improvement and on-going development of
shared and support services,” the company said, without
providing more detail.  AVI has declared a final dividend of 75 cents a share,
taking the total payout for the year to 1.25 rand a share, 25
percent higher than a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  