-- 
Banks Driving Widest Price Swings in Last Trading Hour Since 2009: Options

-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-09-05T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/banks-driving-widest-price-swings-in-last-trading-hour-since-2009-options.html
U.S. options volume rose to a record
last month, driving stock price swings in the last hour of
trading to the widest since the  bull market  began, as investors
speculated on volatility and sought protection from losses.  Volume jumped last month to a record 550 million contracts,
valued at $221 billion, as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell
5.7 percent and fluctuated more than 3 percent during nine of 23
trading days, data compiled by Bloomberg and clearing firm OCC
show. The 94 percent surge from a year earlier amid higher
volatility forced market makers to increase stock sales when
prices fell and buy during rallies, said Marko Kolanovic, global
head of equity derivatives strategy at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The unprecedented trading caused the biggest moves in the
S&P 500 during the final hour of the session since the index
bottomed in March 2009 and contributed to the largest August
drop in a decade amid growing concerns about the economy,
Bloomberg data show. The value of options traded represented 23
percent of the 2011 total, according to OCC, as volume heads for
its ninth straight annual record.  “There are a lot of reasons why the markets are moving so
much these days that don’t necessarily have to do with
fundamentals,” Jeremy Wien, who trades Chicago Board Options
Exchange Volatility Index, or VIX, derivatives at Peak6
Investments LP, said in an interview. The Chicago-based firm
manages more than $1 billion. “Banks have to hedge
themselves,” he said. “It can have a big effect.”  Busiest Month  Options volume was 32 percent higher in August than the
prior monthly record from March of 417 million contracts, which
followed  Japan ’s earthquake.  The VIX, the benchmark measure of U.S. equity derivatives,
fell 4.7 percent to 33.92 last week after increasing four
straight months. The gauge jumped 50 percent, the most since
February 2007, to 48 on Aug. 8 as the global credit crisis
worsened. The VIX has averaged 20.40 over its 21-year history.  In  Europe , the benchmark gauge of stock-market volatility
jumped the most in two weeks yesterday amid concern the region’s
debt crisis is worsening. The  VStoxx Index (V2X) , which measures the
cost of Euro Stoxx 50 Index options, rose 17 percent to 46.84.
It closed at 49.50 on Aug. 10, the highest level since May 2010.  U.S. options trading jumped in the final hour of Aug. 9,
contributing to August’s biggest end-of-day move as S&P 500
market makers bought and sold equities to hedge themselves.  Final Hour  At 2:18 p.m. New York time that day, the  Federal Reserve 
said “downside” risks to the economy had increased and vowed
to keep  interest rates  “exceptionally low” through mid-2013.
By 2:44 p.m., the index had fallen 1.6 percent from the prior
day’s close. Then, between 3 p.m. and 4 p.m., the  S&P 500  soared
from a 0.2 percent loss to a 4.7 percent gain.  During the last hour’s swings, 5.1 million options changed
hands, 64 percent more than the average during the prior four
hours, according to Trade Alert LLC, a New York-based provider
of data and analytics on options markets. Trading of the SPDR
S&P 500 ETF Trust, an exchange-traded fund tracking the
benchmark index for American equities, was 313 million shares in
the session’s final two hours, or 53 percent of the total
between 9:30 a.m. and 4 p.m.  “In high volatility, this becomes very important,”
Kolanovic said during an interview in his New York office. “On
the way down, you’re going to be rapidly selling because as the
market falls, hedgers have to sell into the weakness.”  Monthly Drop  The S&P 500 retreated as much as 13 percent in August,
which would have been the biggest monthly drop since October
2008, before paring the slump to 5.7 percent. Swings were
amplified by what traders call the gamma effect, which occurs
when market makers are forced to buy and sell shares to offset
potential losses from options they have sold. Dealers faced
gamma of $34 billion for S&P 500 puts they’d sold to customers,
a three-year high, Kolanovic said in an Aug. 15 report.  “It exacerbates the move,” said Tim Alford, the head
trader at Armored Wolf LLC, an  Aliso Viejo , California-based
hedge fund with $976 million in assets. “The further you go,
the more they need to do.”  Options volume is on track to rise 18 percent this year to
4.6 billion contracts, a ninth straight annual record, according
to  Andy Nybo , head of derivatives at New York-based research
firm Tabb Group LLC. Volume rose 7.9 percent last year to 3.9
billion contracts, according to the Chicago-based OCC, which
clears and settles all exchange-listed contracts.  Causing Volatility  While options contributed to last month’s price swings,
hedging by market makers didn’t cause the volatility, Credit
Suisse Group AG said. The amount dealers needed to hedge
probably amounted to less than 10 percent of daily trading in
S&P 500 futures and exchange-traded funds, according to Dmitry Novikov, a New York-based equity derivatives strategist at the
second-largest Swiss bank.  “Options and leveraged ETFs were most likely not to blame
for the recent market swings,” Novikov wrote in an Aug. 19
report. “Options gamma hedging is a small portion of  S&P 500
Index (SPX)  products volume.”  Even if options dealers make up a smaller part of U.S.
trading, sudden moves in the S&P 500 have been sparked by single
firms. The rout that erased $862 billion from U.S. equities in
20 minutes on May 6, 2010, began when a mutual fund initiated a
futures trade, according to an Oct. 1 report from the Securities
and Exchange Commission and Commodity Futures Trading
Commission.  Fewer Market Makers  Hedges sway prices more because there are fewer firms
making markets, said David Palmer, who manages a volatility
portfolio at Hudson Bay Capital Management LLC, a New York-based
hedge fund that oversees about $1 billion. U.S. regulators
oversee  4,525 brokerage  firms, 7.7 percent fewer than the level
at the beginning of 2009, according to the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  “I don’t know if the gamma effect is the biggest it’s ever
been, but I will tell you that natural buyers and sellers of
gamma such as market makers seem to be fewer and farther
between,” Palmer said. “You have a magnified gamma effect
because you have less people who are willing to take a stand.
And if there’s a lot of uncertainty in the world, then you’d be
crazy to stand in front of that freight train.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  