-- 
Bank of Moscow May Need 73.6 Billion Rubles to Dodge Crisis

-- B y   A n t o n   D o r o s h e v
-- 
2011-09-05T13:24:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/bank-of-moscow-may-need-73-6-billion-rubles-to-weather-crisis.html
Bank of Moscow, the lender that
needed the biggest bailout in Russian history in July, may
require 73.6 billion rubles ($2.5 billion) in capital during a
crisis scenario, according to the central bank.  Four out of the top 30 banks in the country would need a
combined 91 billion-ruble capital boost during a complete loss
on loans categorized as “problematic” or “hopeless,” Sergei
Moiseyev, deputy head of the central bank’s financial stability
department, told reporters Sept. 3 in Sochi.  The $14 billion bailout underscored the potential for
“major negative surprises in the banking system,” analysts at
 Fitch Ratings  wrote in a report Sept. 2. Bank Rossii is ready to
boost liquidity using repo and lombard instruments, as well as
providing loans backed by gold, central bank First Deputy
Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  said in Sochi last week.  “In a crisis the central bank is ready to provide more
than 3 trillion rubles of liquidity through repo operations,”
Moiseyev said. While there is “no deficit” of funds in the
banking system at present, “liquidity will fall in the
future,” he said.  Banks are “actively involved” in capital flight,
according to Moiseyev. The 30 biggest banks took $20 billion out
of the country in the first half of the year, chiefly in the
form of interbank loans and loans to non-residents, he said.
“This is a worrying tendency.”  Europe  Debt Woes  Russia may see $30 billion to $40 billion in capital
outflows this year, Deputy Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  said
Aug. 26, reversing the ministry’s earlier forecast for zero
capital flight.  Stocks fell globally, Italian bonds dropped for an 11th day
and the cost of government and bank default insurance rose to
records today on concern Europe’s debt crisis will worsen.  OAO Sberbank, Russia’s biggest lender, tumbled as much as 3
percent and traded down 0.9 percent at 81.67 rubles as of 4:48
p.m. in Moscow. The benchmark Micex index slid 0.6 percent,
while the government’s ruble-denominated Eurobond dropped for a
second day, lifting the yield seven basis points to 6.987
percent.  “The main threat” to  Russia ’s banking industry “doesn’t
come from the U.S., but from the European markets,” Moiseyev
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anton Doroshev in Moscow at 
 adoroshev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Sweetman at 
 msweetman@bloomberg.net  