-- 
Banks Increased ECB Overnight Deposits to Highest in Year

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-09-05T10:27:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/banks-increased-ecb-overnight-deposits-to-highest-in-year-1-.html
The  European Central Bank  said
financial institutions increased overnight deposits with it to
the highest in more than a year.  Banks parked 151.1 billion euros ($213 billion) with the
Frankfurt-based ECB on Sep. 2, the most since Aug. 9 last year.
Banks borrowed 14 million euros from the ECB at the marginal
rate of 2.25 percent. The ECB currently lends banks as much cash
as they need in its refinancing operations at its benchmark rate
of 1.5 percent.  Banks have again started hoarding the excess cash they
borrow from the ECB rather than lending it to other institutions
as the worsening sovereign debt crisis makes them wary of each
other. Banks sometimes front-load their ECB borrowing at the
start of the month to ensure they have enough cash to meet
reserve maintenance requirements, said  Laurent Fransolet , head
of European fixed income strategy at  Barclays Capital  in London.  “The deposits always spike once a month, so while people
in general are careful and there are stresses in the market,
today’s figure is not a reliable indicator,” he said. “Because
of the stresses, banks borrowed early from the ECB, and because
they can’t hold excess reserves they park it back with the ECB.”  Rate Meeting   ECB policy makers meet on Sept. 8 to decide on  interest
rates  amid concerns that the debt crisis will infect Europe’s
banking system. The costs of insuring European sovereign and
financial debt against default surged to records today.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western  Europe  Index of credit-
default swaps on 15 governments rose 8 basis points to 318 at
9:30 a.m. in London. The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to
senior debt of 25 banks and insurers soared 13 basis points to
259, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Both gauges are at all-
time highs based on closing prices.  Interbank borrowing for more than six months is becoming
problematic because banks are reluctant to lend to competitors
with “big positions in weaker countries’ debt,” ABN Amro Group
NV Chief Executive Officer Gerrit Zalm, a former Dutch finance
minister, said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in  London  at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  