-- 
Berlusconi Cabinet to Call Confidence Vote on Austerity Plan

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 
2011-09-06T15:20:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/berlusconi-seeks-budget-backing-as-union-protests-austerity-cuts.html
Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi called a Cabinet meeting today to authorize a
confidence vote in Parliament on an amended 45.5 billion-euro
($64.5 billion) austerity plan that prompted a general strike.  The meeting at 6 p.m. in Rome will pave the way for a vote
on the measures, which will include raising the value-added tax
rate by one percentage point to 21 percent, a 3 percent levy on
incomes of more than 500,000 euros a year as well as an increase
in the retirement age of women in the private sector starting in
2014, Berlusconi’s office said in an e-mailed statement.  The premier called the meeting as Italians took to the
streets to protest the budget cuts and after weeks of bickering
on the measures stoked concern among investors and European
leaders about Italy’s ability to prevent contagion from the
region’s debt crisis. The Senate began debating the package
today and may approve it as soon as tomorrow, leading to a final
vote by the Chamber of Deputies by week’s end.  “The government has not been up to the task of handling
this crisis,” Susanna Camusso, head of Italy’s biggest union
CGIL, told demonstrators outside the Coliseum in central Rome.
“This is an unfair and useless budget plan and totally
irresponsible as it hits workers and pensioners.”  The premium investors demand to hold Italian 10-year bonds
instead of benchmark German bunds dropped to 364 basis points as
of 5:13 p.m. in Rome, after soaring to 371 basis points
yesterday, the highest since before the European Central Bank
started buying Italian bonds on Aug. 8. The yield fell to 5.487
percent after hitting 5.557 percent yesterday.  Milan’s stock benchmark  FTSE MIB Index (FTSEMIB)  was down 2.3
percent, with  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , Italy’s
biggest banks, dropping 4.5 and 3.5 percent, respectively.  Travel Woes  The eight-hour walkout by  CGIL , Italy’s biggest union,
disrupted travel and manufacturing as protests in Rome and other
cities attracted as many as a million people, according to the
union. Fifteen percent of workers at  Fiat SpA (F)  took part in the
strike, the nation’s biggest manufacturer said by e-mail.  Fifty-eight percent of employees stayed off the job, the
union said in a statement on its website, citing a survey.
Innovation Minister Renato Brunetta, citing a poll of 10 percent
of civil servants, said 3.1 percent of public-sector workers
participated in the strike, according to an e-mailed statement.  About 50 percent of trains, most of them regional, were
halted, according to CGIL. Rome’s two metro lines and local
commuter trains were shut down,  ATAC , the company that runs
them, said in a statement on its website.  Stranded Passengers  Hundreds of people were stranded at airports  in the capital 
and  Milan  as flights were delayed or canceled. Alitalia SpA said
it canceled some domestic and international flights and  Ryanair
Holdings Plc (RYA)  said it canceled 200 flights to and from Italy,
affecting some 35,000 passengers.  The austerity package, the government’s second in a month,
was announced on Aug. 5 to convince the ECB to buy Italian bonds
after contagion from the region’s debt crisis sent the 10-year
yield to a euro-era record. The plan set a goal for balancing
the budget in 2013, rather than a previous target of 2014.  The government then overhauled the package, bowing to
political pressure from allies and stoking concern that it was
backsliding on its pledges. Last week, Berlusconi dropped an
original version of the “solidarity tax” on incomes of more
than 90,000 euros a year, trimmed funding cuts to regional
governments by around 1.8 billion euros and scrapped a measure
to change pension-payment rules.  European Concerns  Spain is “worried” that Italy is contributing to market
instability by wavering on austerity, Development Minister Jose Blanco told Telecinco television today.  German Chancellor Angela Merkel and European Union
President Herman Van Rompuy agreed at a meeting in Berlin late
yesterday that distressed euro-area countries must swiftly
implement pledges on structural reforms and deficit cuts, said a
German official who asked not to be identified because the talks
were private.  “There is a sense that, mainly because of the abruptness
of the crisis, Italy is not ready, politically and
psychologically, for what is now being demanded of it,” said
Nicholas Spiro, who runs Spiro Sovereign Strategy, a London-
based consulting firm specializing in sovereign-credit risk.  The government reacted today after President Giorgio Napolitano urged political parties last night to overcome their
differences and strengthen the austerity measures. “Nobody can
underestimate the alarming sign” from bond markets, he said in
an e-mailed statement. “There’s still time to introduce
measures in the Senate that can strengthen the efficacy and
credibility” of the plan.  Government Confusion  “The Italian government appears to be in some disarray as
it has backtracked on some of the more unpopular measures,” Jim O’Neill, chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management, said in an
e-mailed note earlier this week. “Many European policy makers
appear to be in a state of shock about this particular twist.
This is not surprising given the intensity of debate about ECB
actions to support the beleaguered Italian bond market.”  Finance Minister Giulio Tremonti said on Sept. 1 that lost
revenue from the solidarity levy will be compensated for by a
crackdown on tax evasion and the plan would still meet deficit-
reduction goals. The changes in the package create a shortfall
of at least 7 billion euros, according to Vladimir Pillonca, an
economist at Societe Generale SA in London.  The new levy on incomes over 500,000 euros a year will last
until Italy balances its budget, according to today’s statement.
Some 3,641 Italians declare earnings in excess of that amount,
Tremonti said in Cernobbio, Italy, on Sept. 4.  Ratings Cut?  Downgrades of Italy’s credit rating now “look probable,”
Societe Generale economists said in a report yesterday, citing
the poor economic and budgetary outlook and “uncertainties over
the availability of market financing.” Standard & Poor’s and
Moody’s Investors Service put the country’s credit rating on
review in May and June, respectively, citing weak economic-
growth prospects.  Officials at the Frankfurt-based ECB have called on Italy
to stick to its budget targets. The austerity package must be
“fully confirmed and implemented,” ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet said in Cernobbio on Sept. 3.  Bank of Italy Governor Mario Draghi, who will become ECB
president on Nov. 1, said the central bank’s bond buying is
“temporary” and should not be taken for granted by euro-region
member states. The purchases “cannot be used to circumvent the
fundamental principle of budgetary discipline,” Draghi said,
according to the e-mailed text of a speech in Paris yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  