-- 
Bovespa Stock Index Falls on Europe Debt Concern, Brazil Inflation Outlook

-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 
2011-09-05T20:39:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/bovespa-futures-fall-on-rising-brazil-cpi-forecasts-europe-debt-concerns.html
The Bovespa stock index tumbled,
posting its biggest two-day loss in four weeks, as Brazilian
economists lifted their inflation forecasts and concern mounted
that the European debt crisis may worsen.  Retailers and homebuilders led declines on the gauge, with
the MSCI  Brazil /Consumer Discretionary Index posting the worst
slide among ten industry groups. Tim Participacoes SA, Brazil’s
second-largest wireless carrier, tumbled the most in four weeks
on speculation controlling shareholder  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  will
sell part of its stake.  The Bovespa fell 2.7 percent to 54,998.41 at the close of
trading at 4:15 p.m. New York time. Sixty stocks dropped on the
index while six gained. The real weakened 0.4 percent to 1.6474
per  U.S. dollar . Brazil’s currency has fallen 3.5 percent since
the central bank unexpectedly cut the benchmark lending rate 50
basis points, or 0.5 percentage point, to 12 percent on Aug. 31.  “Europe is again in the spotlight,” Otavio Vieira, who
helps manage 1.5 billion reais ($907 million) at Safdie Private
Banking in Sao Paulo, said in a telephone interview. “From time
to time investors are reminded that, despite some improvements,
problems in  Europe  persist. In Brazil, the interest-rate cut
last week makes the outlook for inflation a bit more uncertain
than usual.”  Analysts covering the Brazilian economy raised their 2012
and 2013 inflation forecasts following the rate reduction.
Consumer prices will rise 5.32 percent next year and 4.6 percent
in 2013, according to the median forecast in a Sept. 2 central
bank weekly survey of about 100 economists published today. The
forecasts were up from 5.2 percent and 4.5 percent the previous
week.  Inflation Target  The government targets inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or
minus two percentage points. Annual inflation quickened to 7.1
percent in the year through mid-August.  In Europe, stocks plunged after an election loss for German
Chancellor Angela Merkel’s party spurred concern that support
for bailing out Europe’s indebted nations is fading.  The  Social Democrats , the main opposition party nationally,
won yesterday’s election in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania, while
Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union had its worst result since
voting began in 1990 after reunification that year between  West
Germany  and the former communist East Germany.  German’s benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  slumped as much as 6 percent,
the steepest intraday decline since Aug. 18.  Tim, ALL  Tim tumbled 5.8 percent to 8.90 reais. Controlling
shareholder Telecom Italia SpA may sell part of its holdings in
the company to raise between 2 billion reais and 3 billion
reais,  Valor Economico  reported, without saying where it got the
information.  Tim said in a regulatory filing today Telecom Italia
doesn’t plan to sell any part of its stake in the company.  ALL America Latina Logistica SA,  Latin America ’s largest
railroad company, dropped after the stock was cut to “market
perform” from “outperform” at Raymond James & Associates Inc.
on Sept. 2. Shares fell 1.7 percent to 8.85 reais. PDG Realty SA
Empreendimentos & Participacoes, Brazil’s biggest homebuilder by
revenue, dropped 5.5 percent to 7.57 reais, the worst performer
among real-estate companies.  The Bovespa entered a  bear market  on July 27 after slumping
20 percent from its bull-market peak in November. It has since
extended the drop to 25 percent.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge trades at 9.3 times
analysts’ earnings estimates, near the lowest since March 2009,
according to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares to
a ratio of 11.4 for the Shanghai Composite Index, 5.8 for
 Russia ’s Micex and 14 for  India ’s Sensex.  Traders moved 3.35 billion reais in stocks in  Sao Paulo 
today, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares to a daily
average this year of 6.54 billion reais through Aug. 30,
according to data from the exchange.  Foreign investors have pulled 110.5 million reais from
Latin America’s largest equity market in the year through Aug.
31, according to the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  