-- 
Brazilian Real Declines on Global Recession Concern, Interest-Rate Cut

-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 
2011-09-05T21:37:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/brazilian-real-falls-on-recession-concern-interest-rate-cut.html
Brazil ’s real fell to the lowest
level in five months as concern the global economy may slip into
recession weakened demand for higher-yielding assets.  The real weakened 0.3 percent to 1.6452 per dollar, from
1.6410 on Sept 2. It earlier fell to 1.6607, the weakest level
since March 29.  The real has declined for three straight day following the
central bank’s decision to cut the benchmark  interest rate  to 12
percent on Aug. 31, citing a “substantial deterioration” in
the global economy. The real lost 3.4 percent in that period,
making it the worst-performing major currency against the  U.S.
dollar . Payrolls in the U.S. were unchanged in August, adding to
concern the global economy is slowing.  “The employment numbers in the U.S. were bad and some
economists are talking about a recession,” Deives Ribeiro, a
currency manager at Fair Corretora de Cambio e Valores, said in
a telephone interview from  Sao Paulo .  Yields on the futures contract due in January, the most
actively-traded today in Sao Paulo, fell five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to 11.37 percent. The contract due in
January 2013 fell 10 basis points to 10.59 percent.  Payrolls in the U.S. were unchanged last month, the weakest
reading since September 2010, after an 85,000 gain in July that
was less than initially estimated, Labor Department data showed
Sept. 2 in  Washington .  European Crisis  Concern the European debt crisis is worsening also prompted
traders to increase bets the central bank will continue cutting
borrowing costs, said Marcelo Fonseca, an economist with M.Safra
& Co. in Sao Paulo.  “The situation in  Europe  continues to be very
complicated,” Fonseca said in a telephone interview. “Europe
is on the edge of a recession.”  An election loss for German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
party and reports of a rift between  Greece  and the  International
Monetary Fund  fueled concern that support for bailing out
indebted nations is waning.  Traders boosted bets that policy makers will keep lowering
the benchmark overnight rate even after economists in a central
bank survey raised their inflation forecast by the most since
January.  Consumer prices will rise 5.32 percent next year and 4.6
percent in 2013, according to the median forecasts in a Sept. 2
 central bank survey  of about 100 economists published today. The
forecasts were up from 5.2 percent and 4.5 percent the previous
week. The 2012 increase was the biggest since January.  Annual inflation quickened to 7.1 percent in the 12 months
through mid-August.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  