-- 
Pound Falls to Seven-Week Low as Employment Confidence Sinks; Gilts Gain

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-09-05T15:48:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/british-pound-drops-as-job-confidence-sinks-goldman-sees-qe-in-november.html
The pound fell to a seven-week low
against the dollar after U.K. reports showed confidence in the
outlook for employment weakened and a services index declined,
boosting the case for more economic stimulus measures.  Sterling extended two weeks of losses against the yen and
slumped below its 200-day moving average against the greenback
for the first time since July.  Government bonds  climbed, driving
yields on two-year gilts to a record low. Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. said it expects the  Bank of England  to resume so-called
quantitative easing “in the coming months” and pushed back its
forecast for higher  interest rates  until 2013.  “Over the past couple of weeks the topic of QE has got
more momentum behind it,” said Jane Foley, a senior foreign-
exchange strategist at Rabobank International in  London . “The
fact that it appears to be on the table is likely to keep
sterling undermined.”  The pound depreciated 0.7 percent to $1.6097 at 4:47 p.m.
in London, after dropping to $1.6062, the lowest level since
July 19. Sterling slipped below its 200-day moving average,
currently at $1.6123, for the first time since July 19,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The pound weakened for a fifth day against the Swiss franc,
sliding 1.2 percent to 1.2631 francs. It was little changed at
87.61 pence per euro. The U.K. currency declined 0.7 percent to
123.73 yen, after depreciating 0.8 percent last week.  Confidence Falls  An index of consumer sentiment toward hiring prospects slid
13 points to minus 66 for August, the lowest since February,
Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets said today. A gauge of services
activity based on a survey of purchasing managers fell to 51.1
from 55.4 in July, according to Markit Economics and the
 Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply .  November is the most likely month for the resumption of
bond purchases by the central bank, and there is likely to be
100 billion pounds of quantitative easing over two quarters,
Goldman Sachs economists  Kevin Daly  and  Adrian Paul  in London
wrote in a note to clients dated Sept. 2. The bank may resume
quantitative easing as soon as this week, Citigroup Inc.
economist  Michael Saunders  said in an e-mailed note today.  The Engineering Employers’ Federation last week cut its
U.K. manufacturing and economic growth forecasts and said the
central bank will keep rates on hold until at least next year.  Sterling has fallen 6.7 percent in the past 12 months
against a basket of nine major peers, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. Only the dollar has
weakened more, sliding 11 percent.  Gilts Gain  Ten-year gilts rose for a third day, with yields falling 14
basis points to 2.31 percent. The two-year yield was little
changed at 0.55 percent, after dropping to 0.494, the lowest
level since Bloomberg started collecting data on the securities
in 1992.  Investors should favor 10-year gilts over German bunds
after the spread between their yields widened, betting the
interest-rate outlook will remain “benign,” Citigroup said.  The U.K. “may have problems in meeting the fiscal targets
as the economy slows, but at least the coalition’s commitment to
 deficit reduction  is credible,” Citigroup fixed-income
strategists Nishay Patel and Aman Bansal wrote in a research
note. The recent underperformance of gilts “looks a good near-
term buying opportunity. Further quantitative easing would make
the trade even more attractive,” they said.  Ten-year gilts yielded 43 basis points more than their
German counterparts, compared with 26 basis points a week ago,
the most since March 2, based on closing Bloomberg generic
prices. The spread has widened from a 2011 low of eight basis
points on May 4.  Gilts have returned 8.7 percent this year, compared with
6.5 percent for bunds and 8.3 percent for U.S. Treasuries,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  