-- 
Chavez Urges Qaddafi to Continue ‘Resisting’

-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 
2011-09-05T20:20:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/chavez-urges-qaddafi-to-continue-resisting-.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
urged  Muammar Qaddafi  to resist a rebel siege in Libya, saying
that his ally has no plans to leave the embattled North African
nation.  “Nobody knows where Qaddafi is,” Chavez said today in a
phone interview broadcast on state television. “I’m sure that
he’s very far from thinking about leaving Libya. He’ll resist
with what power he has left.”  A core group of soldiers and officials loyal to Qaddafi are
holed up in the town of Bani Walid, said the rebel fighters
besieging the town today. Negotiations have reached an impasse
between the rebels and tribesmen for the peaceful handover of
Sabha, Jaffra and Sirte, Qaddafi’s hometown. The rebel council
says it’s focusing on those towns because Qaddafi may be hiding
in one of them.  Chavez, who last month pledged support to Qaddafi and
called the armed conflict in  Libya  the result of “imperial
insanity,” said he doesn’t have information on the leader’s
whereabouts. He said that by resisting, Qaddafi can lay the
groundwork for a lasting peace in Libya.  When asked if he would offer Qaddafi asylum, Chavez
recalled a conversation he had with Cuba’s  Fidel Castro  about
the capture of Saddam Hussein after Iraq was invaded. Chavez
said Fidel told him that in such situations “what we have to do
is win or die.”  Chavez, who has compared Qaddafi to  Simon Bolivar  and gave
him a replica of the Latin American liberator’s sword when he
visited Venezuela in 2009, read out a letter sent to him by
Qaddafi on Aug. 1 in which he asked the Venezuelan leader for
moral support in his fight against rebels and the Western
alliance. Chavez’s offer in March to mediate in the Libyan
crisis was rejected by the Libyan rebels.  “We are advocating that the life of the Libyan people and
Qaddafi be respected and that this madness is stopped,” Chavez
said today.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Charlie Devereux at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 