-- 
Cheung Kong May Lead Developers’ Bids in Hong Kong Land Sale

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 
2011-09-05T08:21:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/cheung-kong-may-lead-developers-bids-in-hong-kong-government-land-auction.html
Cheung Kong  (Holdings) Ltd., which
sold the most homes in  Hong Kong  in the first half, may lead
developers’ bids at a government land auction as it seeks to
replenish reserves after a pullback in home prices.  The company, controlled by billionaire  Li Ka-shing , the
city’s richest man, and rivals including  Sun Hung Kai Properties
Ltd. (16)  may pay HK$3.7 billion ($475 million) tomorrow for the site
in the Tseung Kwan O district with a buildable area of 793,000
square feet, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey of five surveyors and analysts.  Cheung Kong has spent more than HK$22 billion snapping up
six sites in public land sales this year even as  government 
measures to curb a more than 70 percent surge in home prices
since early 2009 take effect. Two sites in August sold below
analyst estimates, home price gains have stalled on concern the
economy is sliding into recession while transactions fell for
eight straight months.  “Cheung Kong’s strategy has always been to sell a lot and
buy a lot,” Lee Wee Liat, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Samsung
Securities Ltd., said in an interview. “With the amount of
properties they sold this year and the cash generated, you can
expect them to be quite aggressive in replenishing their
landbank.”  The developer currently has HK$9.1 billion in cash, the
highest among Hong Kong developers after  Hang Lung Properties
Ltd. (101) , which has about HK$27 billion, according to figures
tallied by Samsung Securities. Sun Hung Kai, the city’s biggest
builder by market value, is third with HK$5 billion.  Sha Tin Site  Cheung Kong paid HK$6.27 billion in a tender for a site in
the city’s North Point district, the government said Aug. 25.
The price was below the low end of estimates which ranged from
HK$6.47 billion and HK$9.07 billion in a survey by the English-
language newspaper the  South China Morning Post .  Winnie Cheong, a spokeswoman for Cheung Kong, said the
developer considers any sites put up for sale.  A site in the Sha Tin district sold at an Aug. 9 government
auction went for 33 percent below estimates after global stock
markets were roiled by the U.S. debt downgrade and concerns
about the European debt crisis. A group including Sino Land Co.
and  Kerry Properties Ltd. (683)  bought the site with the only bid at
the auction.  Cheung Kong, the city’s second-biggest builder by value,
sold HK$14.5 billion worth of homes in a record first half for
Hong Kong developers, according to Centaline Property Agency
Ltd., the city’s biggest closely held real estate agency. The
developer raised its full-year sales target by 25 percent to
HK$25 billion, Executive Director Justin Chiu said in July.  Most Likely  The company, which also invests in real estate in other
parts of China and  Singapore , in April raised 10.5 billion yuan
($1.6 billion) when it listed Hui Xian Real Estate Investment
Trust in Hong Kong.  Cheung Kong’s shares fell 2.4 percent at the close of
trading in Hong Kong, bringing their loss this year to 14
percent. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  fell 3 percent today.  Cheung Kong and its partners have added land holdings in
Hong Kong this year that amount to more than 2.1 million square
feet of gross floor area, the company said in its earnings
statement last month.  “Cheung Kong and Sun Hung Kai are the two developers most
likely to go for the site,” said Jonas Kan, analyst at Daiwa
Capital Markets. “Other than being cash-rich, they are also the
ones with the most land reserves and existing projects in the
area. Adding another one will help them on marketing and
pricing.”  Auction  Li, dubbed ‘Superman’ by local media for his ability to
generate returns, said Aug. 5 the group “has a lot of cash”
and that Cheung Kong and unit Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. “have many
opportunities in front of us.”  The billionaire built an empire spanning ports, real estate,
hotels, infrastructure and energy from a plastic flower factory
he opened after World War II. That feat landed him on the 11th
spot on the Forbes annual global rich list in March with $26
billion of estimated wealth.  The Tseung Kwan O site is the biggest among the three in
tomorrow’s land sale. Estimates range from HK$3.3 billion to
HK$4.4 billion. The government last sold land in the area, made
up mostly of reclaimed land in the eastern part of the New
Territories, in February 2010 when Sun Hung Kai paid HK$3.37
billion for a site.  The two other sites put up for auction, one in the northern
Yuen Long district and other in the rural Sai Kung district, may
jointly sell for less than HK$360 million, according to the
estimates.  Softening Demand  Hong Kong’s benchmark Hang Seng Index has dropped more than
21 percent from a November high as investors become more
concerned the economy may be slowing down. The Hang Seng
Property Index, a measure of Hong Kong’s seven-biggest
developers, is down 24 percent in the same period.  Demand for new homes in Hong Kong may be hurt by softening
demand from buyers from other parts of  China , whose wealth has
been affected by a deteriorating global economic outlook and
increasingly tighter credit conditions in the country, Samsung’s
Lee wrote in a report today.  ‘Lukewarm Atmosphere’  “The lukewarm atmosphere from the last two land sales will
probably continue,” said  Cusson Leung , a Hong Kong-based
analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG. “It has become obvious
there’ll be plenty of new land supply coming to the market.
Developers know that they won’t have to bid as aggressively as
before to buy land.”  Hong Kong developers with “healthy balance sheets,”
including Cheung Kong, Sun Hung Kai, Sino Land and Kerry are all
possible bidders for the site, said Leung.  The government has sold 16 sites through tender or auction
in the current fiscal year that began April 1 as it has pledged
to provide more land for units to counter rising home values. It
sold a total of 17 sites the previous financial year.  Home transactions had the biggest drop since February 2009
in August, according to Land Registry figures.  An index tracking  home prices  compiled by Centaline fell in
June and July, the first consecutive monthly drop since December
2008. It has fallen 0.4 percent from the beginning of last month
to Aug. 26.  Hong Kong builders are holding off sales of new project
until after the auction, said Wong Leung-sing, an associate
research director at Centaline.  “There’re just too many uncertainties in the market right
now,” he said. “If you set prices too high then nobody will
buy in this market. And if you set them too low and the auction
result comes out good, you may get fired by your boss. It’s best
for these guys to wait.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  