-- 
Chilean Peso Slides Most in Two Weeks on European Debt Concern

-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 
2011-09-05T13:27:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/chilean-peso-slides-most-in-two-weeks-on-european-debt-concern.html
Chile ’s peso fell the most in two
weeks as concern Europe’s debt crisis will worsen eroded demand
for emerging-market assets while lower copper prices dimmed
trade prospects for the world’s biggest producer of the metal.  The peso weakened 0.5 percent to 462.35 per  U.S. dollar  as
of 8:36 a.m. in  New York  from 460.06 per dollar at the close on
Sept. 2. That’s the biggest one-day decline since Aug. 18.  None of the 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg gained against the dollar today and 22 of them
weakened. The yield on Italian 10-year bonds jumped 25 basis
points as of 8:33 a.m. New York time as Prime Minister  Silvio
Berlusconi  seeks parliamentary support for a watered-down
austerity package and an election loss for Germany’s ruling
party added to concern that support for bailouts of Europe’s
most indebted nations is fading.  “What’s ugly is Europe,” said Ronald Volpi, head of spot
currency trading at EuroAmerica. “European bonds are being made
mincemeat because of debt concerns, which are particularly
hitting Italian bonds. Local data didn’t hurt. It was below
expectations but it wasn’t terrible.”  The Chilean central bank today reported the economy grew 4
percent in July from a year earlier, the slowest pace since the
aftermath of a February 2010 earthquake. The median forecast of
14 analysts in a Bloomberg survey was that the economy had grown
4.5 percent.  Copper for December delivery fell 1.8 percent, the most
since Aug. 10, to $405.2 a pound. Copper accounts for half of
Chile’s exports.  German Vote  Germany ’s Social Democrats, the main opposition party
nationally, took 35.7 percent to win yesterday’s election in
Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania, preliminary results show.
Chancellor Angela Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union  had 23.1
percent, its worst tally since voting began in the state in 1990
after reunification that year between  West Germany  and the
former communist East Germany.  Berlusconi’s government last week agreed to overhaul its
austerity proposals, trimming funding cuts for regional
governments by 1.8 billion euros and scrapping a new tax for the
highest earners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  