-- 
China HSBC August Services PMI Drops to Record Low as New Business Slows

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-05T04:23:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/china-hsbc-august-services-pmi-drops-to-record-low-as-new-business-slows.html
A Chinese services index fell to a
record low in August as new business growth moderated, adding to
evidence the economy is slowing after the government raised
interest rates, curbed lending and limited property purchases.  A purchasing managers’ index dropped to 50.6 from 53.5 in
July, according to a statement issued by HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics. The reading, near the borderline of 50 that
marks expansion or contraction, was the lowest since the series
began in November 2005, HSBC said.  The data “reflects the effect of property and credit
tightening measures,”  Qu Hongbin , chief China economist at HSBC
in  Hong Kong , said in the statement. Tightening is probably
approaching an end and  consumer spending  is resilient,
“suggesting China’s service sector is likely to see a
moderation in growth and not a meltdown.”  Premier  Wen Jiabao  signaled last week that a faltering
global recovery and turbulence in financial markets have yet to
convince the government to switch from a focus on taming
inflation and reining in property prices. His campaign has
damped demand at home while a slowing expansion in developed
economies threatens to crimp overseas sales.  Inflation accelerated to 6.5 percent in July from a year
earlier, the highest in three years.  Stocks in  China  fell. The benchmark Shanghai Composite
Index, which tracks the bigger of the country’s stock exchanges,
dropped 1.6 percent to 2,486.99 at the 11:30 a.m. local-time
break, the lowest since July 2010.  Slowing Expansion  The HSBC services index surveys purchasing managers in 400
privately owned companies. The index declined for the third
month and the drop was the biggest since November, according to
the statement.  A separate measure released by the China Federation of
Logistics and Purchasing on Sept. 3 showed the expansion of non-
manufacturing businesses dipped to 57.6 from 59.6 in July. The
survey covers about 1,200 companies in 20 industries including
transport, real estate and retailing.  The new business index reading in the HSBC survey was the
second lowest in the history of the series. Some respondents
reported new business growth had been restricted by government
policies aimed at limiting property purchases, HSBC said.  China started imposing curbs on home buying in some cities
including Beijing in the first quarter of 2010 to slow surging
prices. Controls have been expanded this year, with down-payment
requirements and  mortgage rates  raised and limits imposed on the
number of homes a family can buy.  Wen said last week that measures to control the  property
market  are at a critical stage and efforts to rein in price
gains need to focus on second and third-tier cities.  Export Slide  China’s gross domestic product expanded 9.5 percent from a
year earlier in the second quarter, slowing from the 9.7 percent
gain in the first three months as government tightening policies
kicked in. Citigroup Inc. economists estimate expansion will
moderate to 8.9 percent in the third quarter and 8.4 percent in
the fourth quarter as export growth to developed economies
slides, adding to the domestic slowdown.  The central bank has stepped up measures to squeeze
liquidity from the banking system by expanding the required
reserves to cover margin deposits, after it raised banks’
reserve requirement nine times since November to a record 21.5
percent. The People’s Bank of China also increased benchmark
 interest rates  five times since October to curb inflation.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  