-- 
China Denies Planning to Sell Arms to Qaddafi to Support Fight With Rebels

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-05T08:41:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/china-denies-planning-to-sell-arms-to-qaddafi-to-support-fight-with-rebels.html
China  denied state-owned companies
offered to sell arms to  Muammar Qaddafi  following a July visit
to Beijing by representatives of the Libyan leader, who is in
hiding after rebels took control of the capital, Tripoli.  “The Qaddafi regime sent people to China to make contact
with certain individuals of relevant Chinese companies in July
without knowledge of government departments,” Jiang Yu, a
Ministry of Foreign Affairs spokeswoman, said in Beijing today.
“Chinese companies have not signed any military trade contracts
with  Libya , let alone sold arms to Libya.”  Chinese state-owned companies offered to sell Qaddafi’s
government stockpiles of weapons and ammunition in apparent
violation of United Nations sanctions, the New York Times
reported, citing Libyan rebel officials. The claims were based
on documents found by a Canadian journalist that purported to
show Chinese state-owned companies agreed to sell $200 million
of rocket launchers, missiles and other weaponry, it said.  The documents were first published on the website of the
Toronto-based Globe and Mail newspaper, the Times said. The
Globe cited papers one of its reporters found in the trash in
Tripoli and which said the Chinese companies suggested the arms
be delivered through third countries such as  South Africa  or
 Algeria , the Times said.  Jiang said no arms were exported following UN Security
Council sanctions banning weapons shipments to Libya, either
directly or indirectly.  “China adopts a cautious and responsible attitude toward
arms exports,” Jiang said. ’’In accordance with China’s
international obligations and domestic laws and regulations, we
exercise strict management over all arms exports.’’  Any country that violated the sanctions would find it
difficult to do business in Libya, the Times cited rebel
military spokesman Abdulrahman Busin as saying in an interview
yesterday.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  