-- 
China Money Rate Jumps as New Reserve Requirement Takes Effect

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-05T02:35:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/china-money-rate-jumps-as-new-reserve-requirement-takes-effect.html
China ’s money-market rate surged the
most in more than two weeks on speculation cash supply will wane
as lenders comply with a central bank ruling on reserve
requirements.  Six banks, including the nation’s five-biggest lenders,
will set aside more cash after policy makers broadened the scope
of reserve requirements to include customers’ margin deposits,
according to Liu Junyu, an analyst at China Merchants Bank Co.
Other financial institutions will boost their reserves on Sept.
15, he said.  “The bigger banks may be required to park about 68.8
billion yuan ($10.8 billion) with the central bank this month,”
Shenzhen-based Liu said. “Such a big outflow will surely have
an impact on liquidity in the financial market. The central bank
may pump in money to ease the shortage.”  The seven-day repurchase rate, which measures interbank
funding availability, rose 64 basis points to 4.85 percent as of
10:01 a.m. in  Shanghai , according to a weighted average rate
compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center. That was the
biggest increase since Aug. 19.  Fourteen publicly traded Chinese banks will increase the
reserves placed at the central bank by a combined 695.8 billion
yuan over the next six months, the China Securities Journal
reported today, citing its own estimates based on lenders’
interim earnings reports.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, was unchanged at
4.32 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  -- Judy Chen . Editors: Ven Ram,  James Regan   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3043 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 