-- 
China Researcher Calls for Easing Monetary Policy, Hexun Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-05T10:03:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/china-researcher-calls-for-easing-monetary-policy-hexun-says.html
China’s economic growth may slump to
7 percent if the government doesn’t ease  monetary policy 
immediately, a researcher affiliated with the nation’s top
economic planning agency said in an interview with Hexun.com.  Expansion may drop to about 7 percent by the first quarter
of next year and may dip even lower if the world economy
deteriorates,  Wang Jian , secretary-general of the China Society
of Macroeconomics, affiliated to the National Development and
Reform Commission, said in an interview with the news website.  “We’ve come to the turning point in macroeconomic policy
where we need to shift to protecting growth from combating
inflation,” Wang said, according to a transcript posted on the
website. “If you keep pouring cold water over yourself while
the temperature outside keeps falling, you’ll freeze to death,”
he said.  Inflation is no longer a major concern in  China  and
tightening policies should be eased, Wang said. Banks’ loan
quotas should be raised or eliminated and growth in M2  money
supply  should be expanded “as soon as possible” to at least 17
percent from an estimated 13 percent to 14 percent currently, he
said.  “A slump in growth can’t be avoided even if the government
were to adjust its policies right now,” he said, forecasting a
wave of closures among smaller enterprises that will peak at the
beginning of next year.  China has raised  interest rates  five times since mid
October, boosted banks’ reserve requirements nine times to a
record 21.5 percent for the largest lenders and limited credit
to developers and home buyers to cool the surging  property
market . The central bank this month stepped up measures to
squeeze liquidity from the banking system by expanding the base
lenders use to calculate their required reserves to cover margin
deposits.  Momentum Weakening  Inflation accelerated to a three-year high of 6.5 percent
in July, a level economists estimate may be the peak for this
cycle. Price gains likely slowed to 6.2 percent in August from a
year earlier, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey of 26 analysts.  “We’ve come to a point where growth momentum is weakening
sharply because we’ve placed too much emphasis on fighting
inflation,” Wang said.  Expansion in the world’s second-largest economy will likely
slow to 9.2 percent in the third quarter and to a range of 8.5
percent to 8.7 percent in the last three months of the year,
Wang estimated. Growth cooled to 9.5 percent in the second
quarter from 9.7 percent in the previous three months, according
to statistics bureau data.  --Victoria Ruan. Editors: Nerys Avery,  John Liu   To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  