-- 
Clariant Leads Chemical Stocks Lower After Cutting 2011 Targets

-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 
2011-09-05T09:43:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/clariant-cuts-earnings-sales-targets-on-petering-demand-franc-s-strength.html
Clariant AG (CLN) , which made its biggest-
ever takeover in April, led chemical companies lower in European
trading after cutting targets for sales and profitability this
year.  Revenue will probably total 7 billion francs ($8.9 billion)
to 7.2 billion Swiss francs, down from an earlier estimate of
7.8 billion francs to 8 billion francs, the Muttenz,
Switzerland-based company said. Clariant dropped as much as 16
percent in Zurich, pulling  BASF SE (BAS)  and other peers down.  “We’ve seen order sizes coming down and more insecurity in
the supply chain” in markets like pigments and additives for
coatings and plastics, Chief Executive Officer Hariolf Kottmann
said on a call today. “Demand is slowing. This is not a
development similar to 2008, 2009. We’re not expecting a
complete collapse.”  Brazil , the U.S. and  Europe  are among the markets to feel
the pinch, with customers scaling back on the size and frequency
of orders, Kottmann said. With shorter lead times, additives for
coatings and plastics are typically the first products to be
affected by any deterioration in economies. The slowdown comes
four months after Clariant’s takeover of catalyst maker Sued-
Chemie AG for 2 billion euros.  The prospects of a wider downturn in chemical demand
weighed on rivals, including BASF, which fell 3.7 percent to
45.4 euros in  Frankfurt . Arkema SA dropped 8 percent and
paintmaker  Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA)  dropped 5.2 percent.  Weakness Seeping In  “Clariant’s comments give a clear indication that weakness
in European and U.S. economic growth is starting to have an
impact on activity in the chemical sector,” Morgan Stanley
analyst Peter Mackey wrote in a note. “We will not fall back
into recession in coming quarters, and we therefore believe that
activity in the chemical sector on the whole is more likely to
resemble 2010 than 2009.”  Clariant lowered its margin target range to between 12.8
percent and 13.2 percent, from between 13.5 percent and 14.5
percent. The stock fell as much as 1.32 francs to 6.98 francs
and traded at 7 francs as of 11:15 a.m. local time.  Kottmann, approaching his third anniversary as CEO, said
he’s working on a companywide review as well as on the
integration of Sued-Chemie and a program to improve efficiency.
Clariant is relocating paper-chemical production to  Spain  and
textile additives to  Asia , with plans to open a head office for
the division in  Singapore  next month.  Savings Target  Clariant is earmarking savings of more than 60 million
francs this year. Kottmann reiterated a target for earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization before
one-time items of 17 percent of sales in 2015, with sales of 10
billion francs.  The  chemical industry  is traditionally six months ahead of
the wider economy and September could be a crucial month in
gauging how markets are faring, according to Paul Hodges,
chairman of consultancy firm International eChem.  “There appears to be no ‘seasonal surge’ in demand from
Western retailers in advance of Thanksgiving and Christmas,”
Hodges said by e-mail. “This is further confirmation perhaps
that consumer demand is taking a real hit.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net ;
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  