-- 
Cnooc Falls After Cutting Output Estimate on Bohai Oil Leaks

-- B y   G u o   A i b i n g
-- 
2011-09-05T04:27:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/cnooc-falls-after-cutting-production-estimate-on-bohai-bay-field-shutdown.html
Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s largest offshore
energy explorer, had its biggest decline in a month in  Hong Kong 
trading after oil leaks at a field operated by partner
ConocoPhillips forced the company to cut its output estimate.  The stock fell as much as 9.2 percent, the most since Aug.
9, to HK$13.82 and traded at HK$14.04 at the 12 p.m. local time
break. Cnooc has dropped 24 percent this year, outpacing the 14
percent decline in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  Cnooc, owner of 51 percent of the Penglai 19-3 field in
Bohai Bay, said in a statement yesterday that a shutdown ordered
by the maritime regulator will cut its output by 40,000 barrels
a day, on top of a 22,000 barrel-a-day loss since the leaks
started. The Beijing-based company said it will set up a marine
ecology fund to “better assume appropriate responsibility.”  “If the site remains closed for the remaining months of
the year, Cnooc’s overall oil output will be cut by 1 percent,”
said  Gordon Kwan , head of regional energy research at Mirae
Asset Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong. “Cnooc is on track to miss
its annual production goal.”  The leaks at the country’s biggest offshore field have
spilled 3,200 barrels of oil and fluids since June and
contributed to Cnooc cutting its annual output forecast by as
much as 34 million barrels. State-run Xinhua News Agency said
yesterday that ConocoPhillips China Inc. is “facing the wrath
of the Chinese public” over its failure to stop the leaks.  Report Undercut  Chinese authorities on Sept. 2 ordered the unit of Houston-
based ConocoPhillips to halt production at its Penglai 19-3 oil
field after finding it still has not fully stopped the leaks. An
estimated 870 square kilometers (336 square miles) of  Bohai Bay 
is seriously polluted from the spill, according to Xinhua.  The State Oceanic Administration’s finding undercut a
report that ConocoPhillips submitted to the regulator on Aug. 31
saying it had sealed off the sources of the leaks.
ConocoPhillips “has neither completely screened out the oil
spill risks, nor completely sealed the sources of oil leakage,”
the regulator said in its statement.  “We are on track to complete the shutdown of the Penglai
19-3 field by today,” said Donna Xue, Beijing-based spokeswoman
at ConocoPhillips, said by telephone today. She declined to
comment on the ecology fund or Cnooc’s output estimate.  Production Impact  The shutdown will have an impact on production from the
field,  ConocoPhillips (COP)  said in a statement on Sept. 2, without
specifying the size of any reduction. The company pumped an
average 56,000 barrels of crude a day at the field last year, or
about 3 percent of ConocoPhillips’ global output, according to
the statement.  The 62,000 barrel-a-day cut in Cnooc’s output is equivalent
to 6.9 percent of the company’s average global oil and gas
production of 901,369 barrels a day last year. Cnooc on Aug. 24
cut its full-year oil and gas production target to 331 million
to 341 million barrels, from a goal of as much as 365 million
barrels it set in January. Oil and gas production accounts for
99 percent of its income.  The June leaks at Penglai were  China ’s worst since July
last year by volume. A pipeline explosion at Xingang port in
Dalian, Liaoning province, on July 16 last year caused about
1,500 metric tons of oil to spill into the  Yellow Sea .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  