-- 
Coca-Cola Sees ‘Huge Opportunity’ to Spur Per-Capita China Sales

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-05T02:06:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/coca-cola-sees-huge-opportunity-to-spur-per-capita-china-sales.html
Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , the world’s largest
soft-drink maker, is investing in bottling plants and delivery
trucks in  China  as it targets an increase in average per-person
consumption from the current two drinks a month.  The maker of Sprite, China’s best-selling soft drink, has a
“huge opportunity from a per capita point of view” in China,
Martin Jansen, regional director of the company’s bottling
business in China,  Singapore  and  Malaysia , said in an interview
on Sept. 3.  Coca-Cola plans to invest $4 billion with its Chinese
bottling partners Swire Beverages Ltd. and COFCO Coca-Cola
Beverage Co. in China over three years from 2012 to widen its
lead over rival PepsiCo Inc. Most of that will be spent to build
more bottling plants, buy trucks, expand distribution
infrastructure and add coolers, said Jansen, who is responsible
for 15 bottling facilities in China.  Sales will probably increase at a “high double-digit”
rate in China this year and next, said Jansen. “If you compare
the number of beverages we sell in China, it’s roughly just over
two per month. If you take a country like  Mexico , they also
drink two, but per day.”  Jansen, a Dutch native, said the company will probably
build factories in Sichuan province in southwestern China as
well as expand capacity by adding more manufacturing lines.
Plans to add bottling plants over the next three years are still
being completed, he said.  The Coca-Cola system has more than 40 factories in China
and employs more than 48,000 people, according to an Aug. 18
statement by the company.  Doubling Sales Volume  China sales surpassed 1 billion unit cases in the six
months through June, double the rate of 2005, when it sold that
amount for the whole year, the statement said. Each unit case
has 24 eight-ounce servings.  Sales in the Pacific region increased 9 percent to $4.9
billion last year, according to Bloomberg data.  Coca-Cola, which said in June it was in talks with China’s
government to sell shares in  Shanghai , is the dominant soda
maker in China with 61.5 percent of the market last year,
followed by Pepsi with 29 percent, according to London-based
researcher Euromonitor International.  For soft drinks, a category that includes fruit and
vegetable juice, ready-to-drink tea and bottled water, Coca-Cola
is also No. 1 in China with a 16.8 percent market share,
according to Euromonitor’s data.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  