-- 
Coffee Falls to Three-Week Low on Vietnam Crop Speculation; Sugar Declines

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-09-05T16:43:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/cocoa-may-rise-as-dry-weather-curbs-ivory-coast-s-crop-coffee-prices-fall.html
Robusta coffee fell to a three-week
low in  London  on speculation a record crop in  Vietnam , the
biggest grower, will add to stockpiles. Sugar also declined.  Inventories of robusta beans in warehouses monitored by
NYSE Liffe in London stood at 398,090 metric tons as of Aug. 22,
up from 217,670 tons on Dec. 27, exchange figures showed.
Vietnam, the world’s largest producer of the robusta variety,
will produce a record 22 million bags in the season starting
Oct. 1, according to Rabobank International.  “Robusta seems to be falling due to the expectations of
new season supply,” Keith Flury, an analyst at Rabobank in
London, said in an e-mail today.  Robusta coffee for November delivery declined $81, or 3.6
percent, to $2,194 a ton on NYSE Liffe, the lowest closing price
since Aug. 10. Trading on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York  is closed
for Labor Day.  The premium that buyers have to pay for robusta is
declining because of reduced demand and adequate stockpiles in
 Europe , Rodrigo Costa, a contributor for Sao Paulo-based
consultancy Archer Consulting wrote in a report e-mailed today.  White, or refined, sugar for October delivery dropped
$3, or 0.4 percent, to $750.80 a ton in London.  “Given the trend lower, funds may now opt to pull out and
book profit on the idea that little upside from here is to be
expected,” Rabobank’s Flury wrote in a report on Sept. 2.
“This should keep prices easing into the Northern Hemisphere
beet harvests.”  Cocoa for December delivery fell 8 pounds, or 0.4 percent,
to 1,943 pounds ($3,129) a ton on NYSE Liffe.  Bean shipments from  Indonesia ’s Central Sulawesi province
dropped 46 percent in August from a month earlier as the Muslim
fasting month and Eid festival reduced sales, according to the
local branch of the Indonesian Cocoa Association. Indonesia is
the third-largest cocoa producer after the  Ivory Coast  and
 Ghana , according to International Cocoa Organization figures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 