-- 
Coffee Peaking as Latin American Cargoes Surge

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-09-06T07:39:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/coffee-peaking-as-cargoes-carrying-brazilian-beans-surge-freight-markets.html
The rally that drove arabica coffee
prices up 50 percent in a year may be ending as record
production in  Brazil , the highest output in a decade in Central
America and a rebound in Colombia’s crop boost exports.  Brazil, the world’s largest grower, may produce up to 3.78
million metric tons (63 million bags) of beans next year, a jump
of as much as 37 percent, London-based broker Marex Spectron
Group says. Central America will reap the most since the 1999-
2000 season, the U.S. government forecasts. While that won’t be
enough to boost shipping rates, it may send coffee down 13
percent to $2.50 a pound in the first quarter and $2.20 in the
second, a Bloomberg survey of seven analysts and traders showed.  Arabica, the most-consumed variety, more than doubled since
June 2010 as rain curbed output in Colombia, the second-biggest
producer, and Brazilian stockpiles fell to their third-smallest
in a half-century, USDA data show.  ABN Amro  Bank NV and VM Group
forecast a surplus for the season that begins Oct. 1. Futures
are 8.8 percent below the 14-year high reached in May, and Kraft
Foods Inc. and J.M. Smucker Co. have cut prices.  “I’m saying to the producers that now is the moment to
sell,” said Ricardo Villanueva, the president of  Guatemala ’s
National Coffee Association, known as Anacafe. “We could have
these prices until March or April, but no more than that.”  Arabica prices rose 20 percent last month on the ICE
Futures U.S. exchange, the most since June 2010, on speculation
that frost in Brazil will limit next year’s crop. Coffee was the
biggest gainer in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24
commodities, which declined 1.7 percent.  Instant Coffee  Global production of arabica beans will outpace demand by
690,000 60-kilogram (132-pound) bags in the next season, ABN
Amro and VM Group predict. The surplus in robusta, the second
most-consumed variety, will be 3.87 million bags, they estimate.  Smucker, which owns the Folgers brand, reduced prices for
the majority of its coffee products sold in U.S. by an average 6
percent on Aug. 16. The Orrville, Ohio-based company raised
charges 10 percent in February, said Vincent Byrd, the director
and president of U.S. retail coffee.  Kraft cut prices on some products 6 percent, Bridget
MacConnell, a spokeswoman for the Northfield, Illinois-based
company, said Aug. 23. It increased Maxwell House and Yuban
ground coffees by about 22 percent in March, she said.  Starbucks Hedges  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , the world’s largest coffee-shop operator,
said July 28 that higher bean costs would trim earnings per
share by 21 cents in its fiscal year ending in September 2012,
from a year earlier. The Seattle-based company will report a 20
percent gain in per-share profits to $1.82 in the period, the
mean of 11 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.
Starbucks bought most of the coffee it needs for fiscal 2012 as
prices retreated from a 14-year high, Troy Alstead, chief
financial officer, said in a conference call on July 28.  Coffee is usually shipped to international markets in
burlap bags loaded into steel boxes, each capable of carrying
more than 19 metric tons. Global exports reached about 93.4
million bags in the 2009-2010 season, according to the London-
based  International Coffee Organization .  That amount would fill about 290,000 containers, data
compiled by Bloomberg show, or about 0.05 percent of the 546
million containers that Clarkson Plc, the world’s largest
shipbroker, estimates will move from ports this year. The
broker’s projected 8.5 percent expansion in the global container
trade in 2011 hasn’t been enough to bolster rates that dropped
to zero on some routes because of a glut of ships.  Container Vessels  The global fleet of container vessels expanded 17 percent
to 4,768 since the end of 2007 and orders at shipyards are equal
to 27 percent of existing capacity, data from Redhill, England-
based IHS Fairplay show.  Rates excluding fuel surcharges on shipping lanes from  Asia 
to  Europe , the second-busiest after trade from Asia to the U.S.
West Coast, were zero in July and little changed in August, the
longest stretch in the industry’s half-century history,
according to Morgan Stanley. The cost including surcharges for
moving a box from  China  to Europe fell to $833 from $1,903 in
July last year, according to data from London-based Clarkson.  About 90 percent of world trade is transported by sea, the
Round Table of Shipping Associations estimates. Containers are
also used to carry everything from televisions to washing
machines to meat.  Shipping Glut  Other types of shipping are also suffering from a glut.
Supertankers hauling oil from  Saudi Arabia  to  Japan , the
benchmark route, were last at minus $1,789 a day, data from the
London-based  Baltic Exchange  show. Owners are effectively paying
clients to hire ships because it covers some of their fuel costs
as they move carriers to more profitable regions. Returns
reached $177,000 in July 2008.  Rates for capesizes, mostly carrying coal and iron ore,
were last at $24,199 a day, compared with $234,000 in 2008,
according to the Baltic Exchange, which publishes daily rates
for more than 50 maritime routes.  While shipping lines are contending with a glut, the coffee
industry is struggling to meet demand. Even at the $2.20 a pound
anticipated in the Bloomberg survey, arabica would still be
almost twice as costly as the 10-year average of $1.15.  Speculators are getting more bullish, increasing their net-
long positions, or bets on higher prices, for a third week to
19,651 futures and options by Aug. 30, U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission data show. That’s 47 percent below the peak
reached at the end of April, before reaching the 14-year high of
$3.089 a pound.  First Quarter  “There have been a lot of investors moving into the coffee
market over the past year and there is little chance of a move
toward $2 to $2.30 until the end of the first quarter,” said
Bryan Stockley, the managing director of Coburg Coffee Co., a
London-based roaster. “The performance of the price in the
first quarter next year should be more fundamentally based.”  Options traders are split on the direction of prices. The
most widely held option gives holders the right to buy arabica
at $3 by November, while the second-biggest contract is for
$2.50 by the same date, ICE Futures U.S. data show. Arabica for
December delivery dropped 2.2 percent to $2.818 a pound at 8:36
a.m.  London  time on ICE.  The divergence is being caused in part by two months of
drier-than-average weather in Brazil, ahead of the flowering
phase for the next crop. Too little rain may cause blossoms to
fall before the buds have formed, while some rain followed by
another drought would increase that risk, Commerzbank AG said in
a report Sept. 1.  Bags of Arabica  Marex expects Brazil to reap 60 million to 63 million bags
of coffee production next year, the high-yielding half of its
two-year cycle, from 46 million to 48 million bags this year.
The first beans will be picked at the end of May, with the
harvest officially starting in July.  The country’s arabica exports will probably increase by
about 2 million bags to 29 million bags in the 2012 calendar
year, according to Guilherme Braga, the head of CeCafe, the
Brazilian exporters’ council.  Shipments from  Colombia , the second-biggest, may rise to
8.5 million bags from 7.8 million, according to Luis Rangel, a
vice president at ICAP Futures LLC in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey .
The nation will produce 10.5 million bags, from an almost four-
decade low of 8.1 million bags in 2009-10, USDA forecasts show.  Honduras , which the USDA estimates overtook Guatemala as
Central America’s largest grower this season, will probably
expand output 2.5 percent to 4.1 million bags in the next
season, for a third consecutive gain, USDA data show. Output in
Guatemala will probably rise 3 percent to 4 percent to 3.6
million bags, said Villanueva of Anacafe.  Regional Exports  Combined Central American production will increase more
than 1 percent to 13.4 million bags, the most since the 1999-
2000 season, the USDA estimates. The region usually exports more
than 90 percent of its beans, USDA data show.  “I see prices staying historically high into the first
quarter,” said  Kona Haque , a commodities analyst at Macquarie
Group Ltd. in London. “From the second quarter on, prices
should start coming down as Brazil awaits a bumper harvest and
supplies improve in Colombia and Central America.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 