-- 
Colombia May Auction Coal, Gold Rights to Lure Investors

-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 
2011-09-05T17:45:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/colombia-may-auction-coal-rights-to-lure-investors-find-coltan.html
Colombia  may auction rights to tap
its coal and gold deposits after attracting investors such as
billionaire  Eike Batista  to develop the nation’s oil industry.  The South American nation is seeking to spur exploration
and production and also boost copper, platinum and coltan
reserves to raise government income, Mines and Energy Minister
Carlos Rodado said in an interview in the city of Medellin.  It’s “very, very possible in the future you’ll see auction
rounds in the case of Colombian minerals like you saw with
hydrocarbons,” Rodado said. The strategy may be the best way to
“increase the value” of such reserves, he said.  President  Juan Manuel Santos  is counting on international
investment in new  oil wells  and mines to spur exports amid
rising demand for commodities. Batista’s OGX Petroleo & Gas
Participacoes SA and Carlos Slim’s Grupo Carso SAB are among
companies seeking to tap oil reserves after Colombia improved
security and opened new swathes of the country to exploration.  The country may hold reserves of coltan, used in mobile
telephones, in its eastern provinces, Rodado said Sept. 2.
Identifying such areas is a first step toward auctions that will
help bring more mining companies to Colombia, he said.  Colombia also has untapped reserves of thermal coal, used
by power companies, and metallurgical coal that requires new
infrastructure such as railroads to export, Rodado said.  Colombia wants to make the most of its reserves after coal
rose 33 percent in  Europe  in 12 months. Copper rallied 16
percent in the same period and gold surged to a record.  Coal Production  Coal production this year probably will meet or surpass 80
million tons even after storms hindered output, he said. The
country holds 45 percent of  Latin America ’s reserves and
produced about 74.4 million tons last year.  Mining companies across Colombia will have to brace for
more rains as seasonal storms begin next month after hampering
production earlier this year, Claudia Jimenez, executive
director of Bogota-based Large Scale Mining, an industry group
that represents companies, said Aug. 31. In June, coal exports
tumbled 16 percent to 5.85 million metric tons from a year
earlier.  In northern Colombia, Drummond Co., Batista’s  MPX Energia
SA (MPXE3) , Glencore International AG and BHP Billiton Plc are among
companies seeking to expand coal production after prices rose.
BHP,  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  decided last month to
invest $1.3 billion to expand their Cerrejon mine.  Auctions of oil blocks in Colombia, South America’s third-
largest supplier of crude, helped increase production by 21
percent to 953,000 barrels per day last month from a year
earlier. Oil blocks auctioned in 2010 will spur more than $1
billion in exploration spending over three years, according to
government estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  