-- 
Darwin Effect Cuts Photovoltaic Prices, Abound Solar Says

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-09-05T12:52:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/darwin-effect-cuts-photovoltaic-panel-prices-abound-solar-says.html
Abound Solar Inc., the photovoltaic-
panel maker using technology favored by  General Electric Co. (GE)  and
 First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  of the U.S., said bankruptcies that are culling
higher-cost rivals will help cut module prices to $1 a watt.  “This is Darwinism at work in business,” Julian Hawkins,
senior vice president of sales and marketing at the closely held
U.S. manufacturer, said in a telephone interview. “It’s
probably a good thing in the long run.”  Solyndra Inc. on Aug. 31 became the third U.S. solar-
equipment maker to fail in a month as declining panel prices and
a slowdown in global demand forced weaker companies to team with
competitors or close shop. Competitors were basing their
businesses on the assumption they could sell panels at $2 per
watt or more, which was unsustainable, Hawkins said.  Abound Solar, based in Loveland, Colorado, makes thin-film
panels coated with  cadmium telluride , a technology also used by
GE and First Solar, the world’s biggest thin-film maker. They’re
cheaper to produce than traditional panels using silicon-based
cells whose biggest producers include China-based Suntech Power
Holdings Co. and LDK Solar Co.  “We’re already competitive and will be more so as we ramp
up production,” Hawkins said. By the end of 2012, Abound
expects to treble capacity to 200 megawatts, “where we start
nearing the $1-per-watt level,” he said.  The average spot price for the rival silicon-based solar
modules dropped last month to about $1.40 for each watt of
capacity. Global prices are not commonly reported for thin-film
panels.  Pricing Below Silicon  “One dollar-a-watt is probably about what a thin-film
manufacturer like Abound will have to be offering in 2012 in
order to sell large volumes,” said Jenny Chase, lead solar
analyst for Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Thin-film modules like Abound’s currently sell at a
discount of about $0.26 per watt and they require more space and
equipment to install, she said.  The London-based researcher expects crystalline silicon
modules in 2012 to average $1.17 per watt. “Abound will have to
sell at about $0.91 per watt in 2012, which is going to be as
difficult for it as $1.17 per watt is for the best crystalline
silicon companies,” Chase said.  An expected doubling of demand from  India  and a cheaper
technology that’s less exposed to raw material costs will allow
Abound Solar to avoid the problems facing Solyndra, a recipient
of a $535 million U.S. government loan guarantee, as well as
Evergreen Inc. and SpectraWatt Inc., which also sought
protection from creditors, Hawkins said.  Mergers, Acquisitions  The solar-equipment industry has begun its biggest
consolidation in two years with $3.3 billion of mergers and
acquisitions announced so far this year. The benchmark Bloomberg
Industries Large Solar Energy index fell 2.2 percent today to
29.05 as of 1:48 p.m. London time, the lowest since March of
2009, according to Bloomberg data.  Tempe, Arizona-based First Solar says it can make modules
for  $0.75 per watt  and aims to reduce the cost of production to
as little as $0.52 a watt by 2014. First Solar doesn’t reveal
its average selling price.  Abound Solar’s average module efficiency will rise to 11.1
percent by the end of 2012 from 10 percent, he said. Better
panel efficiency means sunlight can be converted into more
electricity, a key factor in reducing the cost of solar power to
a level that’s competitive with other energy sources.  Cheap Glass  The company sources cadmium-telluride from three suppliers,
including 5NPlus Inc., Hawkins said. Those raw materials could
double in price without making any “fundamental difference” in
the cost of its modules, he said.  “Glass is the biggest part of our cost structure,” he
said. “That’s a fairly stable commodity that’s widely
available.”  Abound Solar expects to ship half its 45 megawatts of in
sales this year to India where $3.2 billion of solar plants are
due to be built by January.  Last week, India announced the rules for its second
national auction of solar licenses that exempts project
developers who use thin-film technology from having to buy solar
panels domestically.  With the new auction issuing permits for another 350
megawatts of plants, Abound Solar expects volumes in India to
double to 50 megawatts in 2012, he said.  To meet that demand, the company is installing two new
production lines at its Longmont, Colorado, plant to raise
capacity to 200 megawatts by next year, he said. At the end of
2012, it plans to start setting up a new plant in the state of
 Indiana  to boost capacity to 840 megawatts by 2013.  “As we build out Indiana, we’d have to look at raising
capital,” and an initial public offering may be one option,
Hawkins said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 