-- 
Default Swaps on Treasuries Drop to Record Low Against Bunds in S&P Denial

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-09-06T13:27:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/default-swaps-on-treasuries-drop-to-record-low-against-bunds-in-s-p-denial.html
U.S. debt  rated AA+ is beating AAA
German bunds as investors seek the safety of the world’s biggest
bond market amid slowing growth and Europe’s financial crisis.  Traders are paying $73,830 a year to protect $10 million of
Treasuries against default, less than during the height of the
financial crisis in 2008 and below the $78,670 for higher-rated
German bunds, according to CMA. The difference between prices of
the credit-default swaps reached a record $17,370 on Aug. 29,
even after Standard & Poor’s cut America’s credit rating.  Investors have determined Germany, the largest European
economy, is riskier because of rising costs to bail out Greece,
Portugal and Ireland. Money managers are also repudiating S&P’s
Aug. 5 decision that Treasuries are worth less, driving them up
2.67 percent, against a 2.09 percent gain for bunds. U.S.
government debt returned 2.8 percent in August, the most since
December 2008, Bank of America Corp. indexes show. The yield on
the U.S. 10-year note dropped to a record 1.9066 percent today.  “The growing storms and fears of the imminent debt
restructuring in  Europe  is putting people into the deepest, most
liquid market in the world and it’s the natural place to go,”
said James Camp, managing director of fixed-income in  St.
Petersburg ,  Florida , at Eagle Asset Management Inc, which
oversees $19.5 billion, in a telephone interview on Sept. 1.  The $14.6 trillion  U.S. economy  is more than four times the
size of Germany’s $3.3 trillion, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Bond Demand  Investors poured $78.4 billion into bond mutual funds this
year as of July, according to data from Chicago-based
Morningstar Inc. They snapped up Treasuries even as marketable
U.S. debt outstanding grew to $9.38 trillion, equivalent to
about 64 percent of gross domestic product, from $4.54 trillion
in mid-2007, before the recession and collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Prices of credit-default swaps tied to Treasuries have
dropped to the lowest since May, and are down from more than
$91,000 on July 28, according to CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  Rather than speculating that the U.S. will default, traders
often use the contracts to hedge against losses in Treasuries,
meaning that a decline indicates they see less of a chance of a
sell-off in the bonds even with yields at about record lows.  Plunging Yields  Since S&P, a unit of New York-based McGraw-Hill Cos., cut
the U.S. to AA+ from AAA, the yield on the 10-year Treasury
note, a benchmark for everything from home mortgages to
corporate bonds, plunged to a record low of 1.97 percent on Aug.
18 from a high this year of 3.77 percent. Moody’s Investors
Service and Fitch Ratings affirmed their top rankings on the
U.S.  “Rates have stayed lower than anyone had expected,”
Mitchell Stapley, the Grand Rapids, Michigan-based chief fixed-
income officer for Fifth Third Asset Management, which oversees
$22 billion, said in an interview last week. “The ten-year may
go up to 2.5 percent, but it will not rise dramatically by year-
end.”  Yields on 10-year Treasuries dropped 20 basis points, or
0.2 percentage point, last week to 1.99 percent as a government
report showed U.S. employers added no new jobs in August and the
 unemployment rate  was unchanged at 9.1 percent. The price of the
benchmark 2.125 percent security maturing in August 2021 rose 1
25/32, or $17.81 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 6/32.  Strategists have cut their year-end forecast for the yield
to 2.69 percent from 3.5 percent in July, according to the
median of 58 estimates in a Bloomberg survey. The yield has
averaged 5.1 percent since 1991.  Obama Jobs Plan  President Barack Obama will unveil plans to spur job
creation in a speech to Congress Sept. 8. A supercommittee
consisting of Democrats and Republicans has begun seeking $1.5
trillion in deficit cuts by the end of November.  S&P said Aug. 5 that the government is becoming “less
stable, less effective and less predictable.” The firm said
lawmakers failed to cut spending enough to trim record deficits
and that it may lower the long-term rating to AA within the next
two years if reductions are less than agreed to,  interest rates 
rise or “new fiscal pressures” during the period result in
higher general government debt.  Officials in  Washington  are now debating ways to cut
spending, which may put a drag on the growth at the same time
economists are already paring their forecasts. The median
estimate of more than 56 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
is for gross domestic product to expand 1.75 percent this year.
That’s down from 2.5 percent in a June poll.  ‘Suicidal’ Move  Cutting spending “right now is almost suicidal,” said
Bill Gross, who as co-chief investment officer at Newport Beach,
California-based Pacific Investment Management Co. runs the
world’s biggest bond fund. Gross made the comments in a radio
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken
Prewitt after the Sept. 2 jobs report.  Market turmoil following S&P’s move erased about $2.3
trillion from the market value of U.S. equities since the
 Standard & Poor’s  500’s recent high on July 22. The MSCI All-
Country World Index of stocks fell 7 percent last month, the
biggest slump since May 2010.  “The downgrade by S&P may have caused a lot of angst,”
 Andy Richman , who oversees $10 billion as a strategist in  Palm
Beach , Florida, for SunTrust Bank’s private wealth management
division, said in a telephone interview on Sept. 2. “It was a
non-event as far as the credit strength of the U.S.”  Expensive Bonds  While Treasuries may not tumble, some market measures
suggest that there’s little room to rally further. A financial
model created by economists at the Fed that includes
expectations for interest rates, growth and inflation indicates
10-year notes are near the most overvalued levels on record.  The term premium, which Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke cited
in a 2006 speech in  New York  as a useful guide in setting
monetary policy, fell to negative 0.46 percent Sept. 1,
indicating the notes are expensive when compared with the
average 0.84 percent for the gauge this decade through mid-2007.  “We are in the camp that growth will be south of 2 percent
for remainder of the year, but that would put gentle upward
pressure on rates,” Stapley said.  Unlike in the U.S., Europe’s bond market shows rising
pressure on lawmakers to cut budget deficits as the region’s
debt crisis threatens to spread to Italy and Spain from  Greece ,
Ireland and Portugal, which had their ratings cut to below
investment grade.  Europe Swaps  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit-
default swaps insuring the debt of 15 governments rose to a
record 310 in  London  on Sept. 2, surpassing an all-time high
closing price of 308 on Aug. 26. The index has climbed from this
year’s low of 157.4 in April.  Austerity measures in Europe mean the euro area’s GDP may
grow 1.4 percent next year, down from 1.8 percent in 2011 and
compared with 2.35 percent in the U.S., according to the median
estimate of 19 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Credit-default swaps on 10-year German bunds climbed to a
record of 86.9 basis points on Aug. 11. Contracts on 10-year
Treasuries are down from an all-time high of 100 in February
2009 during the depths of the financial crisis.  The difference between swaps on bunds and Treasuries
touched a record 38.6 basis points on Aug. 29. Contracts on
bunds have typically cost about 3 basis points less than U.S.
debt since 2007. As recently as May the gap was 12.5 basis
points in favor of  Germany .  ‘Muddied Waters’  “Germany is starting to be muddied by the waters of its
European colleagues,”  David Keeble , head of interest-rate
strategy at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in New
York, said in a telephone interview on Aug. 31.  German Chancellor Angela Merkel reiterated Aug. 19 her
opposition to jointly sold bonds by the euro area’s 17 nations
to stem debt concerns. Germany would face extra costs of 47
billion euros ($66 billion) a year through the alignment of
interest rates with nations that pay more to borrow, the
country’s Ifo institute said on Aug. 17.  German Elections  Merkel’s party suffered its fifth election loss this year
on Sept. 4 as the Social Democrats, the main opposition party
nationally, took 35.7 percent to win election in Mecklenburg-
Western Pomerania, preliminary results show. Merkel’s  Christian
Democratic Union  had 23.1 percent. The result means her national
coalition has been defeated or lost votes in all six German
state elections so far this year as voters resist her bid to
prevent a euro-region breakup by putting more taxpayer money on
the line for bailouts.  So far the rescue bill includes 365 billion euros in
official loans to Greece,  Portugal  and Ireland, the creation of
a 440 billion euro rescue fund and 96 billion euros in bond
buying by the  European Central Bank .  “The market is treating Germany as if it’s going to be
part of a bigger fiscal union to provide guarantees for Spanish
and Greek debt,” Keeble said. “We have a lot of safe-haven
players in Treasuries that think the world could collapse into a
great big black hole.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  