-- 
Delhi Building Boom in Suburbs Overlooking F1 Track Challenged by Farmers

-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r   a n d   A b h a y   S i n g h
-- 
2011-09-06T05:55:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/delhi-building-boom-in-suburbs-overlooking-f1-track-challenged-by-farmers.html
Rohit Saxena used to spend weekends
huddled in a makeshift tent on the side of a dusty road in one
of  New Delhi ’s fastest growing suburbs, darting into the baking
sun to hand passing cars brochures for residential developments.  The heat and jostling with rival brokers in the software
hub of Noida, east of New Delhi, was worth the reward, said
Saxena, who closed 10 deals per weekend and in his best month
earned 29 times India’s per-capita annual national income. The
tents are now abandoned after courts ruled in favor of farmers
protesting the acquisition of their land for development,
scaring away buyers already saddled with higher borrowing costs.  The biggest building boom in India is mired in legal
uncertainty as to who owns the land around new up-market
apartments overlooking Greg Norman-designed  golf courses  and in
townships near the nation’s first  Formula One  racing track.
Across  India , land acquisitions have been marred by protests,
stalling about $80 billion of steel projects and a highway from
New Delhi to the city of Agra, home to the  Taj Mahal .  “Land is becoming a sticky issue,” said  Dharmakirti
Joshi , a Mumbai-based economist at Crisil Ltd., the local unit
of  Standard & Poor’s . “The issue is a critical component of the
overall investment climate. I believe it will get sorted out,
but if it doesn’t it will have repercussions.”  The area around New Delhi, the nation’s capital, is the
country’s largest market in terms of development volume for new
homes, according to  Jones Lang  LaSalle India. The projected
delivery of apartments over the next three years in the suburbs
of Gurgaon, Noida and Greater Noida stands at 439 million square
feet (40.8 million square meters), 60 percent higher than in
Mumbai, according to P.E. Analytics Pvt., a real estate research
firm. That’s enough to house 340,000 families.  Affordability Lost  The suburbs are products of India’s seven years of surging
economic growth, with gated communities for the burgeoning
middle class swallowing up farmland that had been there for
hundreds of years. The  National Capital Region  -- as New Delhi
and its satellite towns are known -- is home to companies
including  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Accenture Plc.  A four-story height restriction in most parts of New Delhi
has made land for new projects expensive and hard to find,
driving people to more affordable areas to the south and east of
the capital. Average prices in New Delhi’s environs have gained
12 percent since mid-2009, compared with as much as 40 percent
across Indian cities, according to Jones Lang.  Stalled Projects  “If the original land owners are paid compensation as per
market rates, developers’ costs will rise, which will impact
buyers,” said Santhosh Kumar, chief executive officer of
operations at Jones Lang. “Affordability will be lost.”  Homes in that belt range from about $20,000 to $4 million,
said Jones Lang’s Kumar. In contrast, colonial-style bungalows
along central Delhi’s tree-lined avenues, home to politicians
and billionaires including ArcelorMittal Chief Executive Officer
 Lakshmi Mittal  and K.P. Singh, owner of India’s largest property
developer, can cost as much as $76 million.  In May, police clashed with villagers demanding greater
compensation for land on which a new highway from New Delhi to
Agra is being built. India's cabinet yesterday approved a new
land bill that seeks to boost compensation to farmers as the
government tries to defuse growing resentment in the
countryside. The bill will be introduced in parliament for
lawmakers’ approval in the current session ending Sept. 8, Rural
Development Minister  Jairam Ramesh  said in New Delhi yesterday.  Proposed mills by Luxembourg-based ArcelorMittal, the
world’s biggest steel producer, and Posco,  South Korea ’s biggest
steelmaker, have been delayed by six years because of failure to
secure land and mining rights.  Farmers Shortchanged  The spat over land on the outskirts of New Delhi deepened
when India’s highest court quashed the acquisition of some farm
land in a village after farmers claimed they were shortchanged
in forced sales to the government, which had promised to use
some of the land for industrial purposes and pledged jobs to the
former residents. Instead, the government sold the land to
developers.  The court in July directed the return of land to the
villagers and farmers, who lived in basic houses with naked
brick walls, growing wheat, mustard and lentils.  Builders say their contracts with the government are valid
and it’s a problem for authorities to fix. The government is now
in talks with the farmer groups to increase compensation.  Broker Saxena, who is marketing builder  Supertech Group 
Ltd.’s Cape Town project in one of the disputed areas, said
prices have stagnated at about 3,196 rupees per square foot
because of the dispute. He had expected prices to climb 8
percent.  ‘Standstill’  Saxena said his best month was in March 2010 when he earned
1.05 million rupees ($22,932), about half the per-capita income
of the U.S. last year and 29 times the 35,917 rupee average per-
capita income in India. With commissions now stalling, Saxena is
having to make do with his fixed salary of 30,000 rupees a
month.  “People are very wary now, so no new sales are
happening,” said Samir Jasuja, chief executive officer of P.E.
Analytics in Gurgaon. “Sales have come to a standstill because
the customer doesn’t know what he is buying, whether the land
belongs to the developer or not. There is confusion in almost
all the growth areas of Noida.”  About half of the 124 million square feet of homes expected
to be delivered by 2013 in Greater Noida will be affected by
these land problems, he estimates.  “Sales in the disputed areas have completely stopped so
that’s going to push the demand back to more established
areas,” said Gurgaon-based Anshul Jain, chief executive officer
at DTZ International Property Advisers Pvt.  Funding Costs  The  3C Co ., a developer that builds offices and apartments
mostly in the eastern suburb of Noida, is selling apartments for
4,800 rupees a square foot at one of its developments. That’s a
71 percent increase from its launch price in 2009, said Brijesh
Bhanote, director for sales and marketing.  Developers and property buyers are already struggling with
surging funding costs. India’s central bank has raised  interest
rates  11 times since March 2010 in an attempt to tame surging
inflation, making home loans and funds developers need to borrow
more expensive.  The scale of projects and sale of about 75,000 homes worth
$10 billion in Greater Noida, a township 12 miles (19
kilometers) east of Noida, may influence a financial compromise
between the farmers and the government, Aashish Agarwal, a
Mumbai-based analyst at CLSA Asia Pacific Markets, wrote in a
note to clients on July 22. Still, there’s the risk of delays
and the occurrence of similar protests and rulings in other
areas, he said.  Surging Economy  The protests “have shaken the developer community because
if you don’t get good title land from the government, who do you
go to?” said Geetamber Anand, vice president of the
Confederation of Real Estate Developers Associations of India
and managing director of Noida-based developer ATS
Infrastructure Ltd.  India’s economy  is forecast to grow at 7.7 percent this
year, and its young population, low mortgage penetration, rapid
urbanization and a trend toward nuclear-family homes will boost
demand for homes in the world’s fastest-growing major economy
after  China , according to a report by UBS AG in May. The
country, with an estimated housing shortage of 24.7 million
units, needs 10 million homes in urban areas alone, according to
UBS.  ‘Roller Coaster’  B.N. Mishra, a businessman who runs a  software company ,
bought an apartment for 2.2 million rupees at the disputed site
in Greater Noida in 2009. He is waiting for resolution between
farmers and the government so he can move into his new home.  “It has been a huge roller coaster ride,” he said. “You
don’t know where to go. If there is no solution, I’ll have to
continue with renting or buy a house that is ready.”  Jaypee Group, which is developing about 10,000 acres of
land primarily in Noida and Greater Noida, says the tussles
won’t derail its projects, including India’s first Formula One
track and an 18-hole Greg Norman golf course.  “The Formula One track is on schedule; the first race will
happen on Oct. 30,” Vibhor Gupta, deputy general manager of
marketing at Jaypee Group said in an interview. “Formula One is
going to put Noida and Greater Noida firmly on the international
map. There’s nothing bigger than that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net ;
Abhay Singh at 
 abhaysingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  