-- 
Ackermann Says Market Reminiscent of 2008

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-09-05T12:52:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/deutsche-bank-s-ackermann-says-market-conditions-remind-him-of-fall-2008.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  Chief Executive
Officer  Josef Ackermann  said conditions in the stock and bond
markets are reminiscent of the financial crisis of late 2008.  “The ‘new normal’ is characterized by volatility and
uncertainty -- not only in respect to market developments, but
also in consideration of the future of the financial branch,”
Ackermann  said  today at a conference in  Frankfurt  organized by
Euroforum. “All this reminds one of the fall of 2008, even
though the European banking sector is significantly better
capitalized and less dependent on short-term liquidity.”  The collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September
of 2008 froze credit markets and forced taxpayer-funded bailouts
of banks from Washington and  London  to Berlin. Concern  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis is worsening and global economic growth is
slowing wiped about 5 trillion euros ($7 trillion) from stock
values since the end of July, with banks leading the slide,
Ackermann said.  The Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index of
46 stocks dropped as much as 5.3 percent today, and tumbled 32
percent this year. Deutsche Bank fell 8 percent, the biggest
decline in more than two years, by 2:05 p.m. in Frankfurt
trading.  Deposits With ECB  Aid of 256 billion euros ($363 billion) for  Greece , Ireland
and  Portugal  failed to halt the spread of the debt crisis, which
now threatens Spain and  Italy . The extra yield investors demand
to hold Italian 10-year bonds instead of benchmark German bunds
climbed 28 basis points to the most since Aug. 5.  The  European Central Bank  said financial institutions
increased overnight deposits with it to the highest in more than
a year. The cost of insuring against default on European
financial debt rose to record. The Markit iTraxx Financial Index
linked to senior debt of 25 banks and insurers soared 13 basis
points to 259, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Many European banks “obviously” wouldn’t be able to
shoulder writedowns on sovereign debt held in their banking
books based on market values, Ackermann said today. Therefore
European governments agreed to financial aid measures for
countries, and forcing banks to boost their capital would
undermine the credibility of existing support measures, he said.  Cutting Costs  Banks face “a row of challenges” and containing costs is
increasingly important when it is hard to boost revenue,
Ackermann said. Deutsche Bank would consider additional cost
reductions if markets don’t improve from August levels and if
the outlook for the investment-banking division remains
difficult in the long term, he said.  “If the developments in August continue in September and
October, then it’s clear we’ll have to consider such measures,”
Ackermann said. “Currently, we assume that the trend of August
won’t necessarily continue” and the retail and asset management
businesses are doing better than planned, he said.  Deutsche Bank,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and Societe
Generale SA led declines in European bank stocks after 17
lenders were sued by the U.S. over the sale of mortgage-backed
securities and on investor concern over interbank lending.  Ackermann said the German company will fight suits in the
U.S., and proving there was fraud “won’t be simple.”  DZ Bank AG Chief Executive Officer Wolfgang Kirsch,
speaking at the same conference, said European politicians need
to agree on a solution for the sovereign debt crisis to avoid a
repeat of the events of 2008. “Otherwise we will enter a very
difficult market situation,” Kirsch said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  