-- 
Deutsche Telekom to Evaluate Options for T-Mobile USA Assets

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-09-05T19:40:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/deutsche-telekom-to-consider-carving-out-t-mobile-assets-to-help-at-t-deal.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  said it will
evaluate options for T-Mobile USA to facilitate a $39 billion
sale of the business to  AT&T Inc. (T)  that is being contested by the
U.S.  Justice Department .  “If there are conditions to be attached to the
transaction, we will work on the matter together with AT&T,”
spokesman Philipp Kornstaedt said in a phone interview today. He
reiterated that Deutsche Telekom will join AT&T in court to
defend the transaction, which was agreed in March.  A resolution for the takeover, which the Justice Department
sued to block last week, is important for the telecommunications
industry, said Julio Linares, chief operating officer of
 Telefonica SA (TEF) ,  Europe ’s biggest phone company by market value.
The takeover is the largest announced acquisition this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It’s also the biggest
step for Deutsche Telekom Chief Executive Officer Rene Obermann
in his almost five years in the job.  “We’ll keep an eye on the resolution as it will be a clear
and significant message for the whole industry,” Linares said
today at an industry conference in Santander,  Spain . “When
those two important companies try to consolidate, it is because
there’s no room for so many players.”  Madrid-based Telefonica isn’t interested in expanding into
the U.S. market, Linares said.  Shares Fall  Deutsche Telekom fell 40.3 cents, or 4.6 percent, to 8.33
euros at the close of trading in Frankfurt.  Germany ’s benchmark
DAX Index lost 5.3 percent. The shares have declined 13 percent
since the Aug. 31 U.S. complaint saying the deal would
“substantially lessen” competition in the wireless market.
Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom has a market value of 36 billion
euros ($51 billion).  Dallas-based AT&T slipped 0.8 percent to $28.05 on Sept. 2,
giving the company a market capitalization of $166 billion. U.S.
markets are closed for the Labor Day holiday today.  “I’m sure they’ll be proactively entering into discussions
with regulators on a region-by-region basis,” said  Mark James ,
an analyst at Liberum Capital in  London . ‘If you’re a Deutsche
Telekom investor you’re going in the face of regulatory
uncertainty.”  Deutsche Telekom will continue to record the U.S. business,
which accounted for 24 percent of net revenue in the second
quarter, as “discontinued operations” in its financial
reports, Kornstaedt said today. The unit’s net income  dropped  55
percent in the first six months as its base of subscribers
declined by 663,000, or 2.5 percent of its total.  Market Leader  The purchase of Bellevue, Washington-based T-Mobile would
combine the second- and fourth-largest carriers to create a new
market leader ahead of No. 1 Verizon Wireless. The new company
would dwarf current third-biggest carrier Sprint Nextel Corp.,
which argued against the deal.  CEO Obermann stands by his assessment that the deal would
be “the best option” for Deutsche Telekom shareholders, T-
Mobile USA employees, customers and the U.S. as a country, he
said in a Sept. 1 newsletter to employees.  “There’s no point in lamenting, we’ve got the authority’s
complaint and now we have to deal with it,” he said, adding
that the approval process is “still on schedule.”  T-Mobile USA , headed since last year by  Philipp Humm , is
betting on new wireless packages without subsidized phones as
well as mobile-data growth and routing more traffic over its own
network as it aims to meet profitability targets this year, CEO
Obermann said last month.  Separately, Deutsche Telekom said today it will allow
customers in Germany to reserve the next generation of  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone as of today in anticipation of supply bottlenecks
for the device. The operator will distribute coupons to
consumers who request the successor model to the iPhone 4,
according to spokesman Alexander von Schmettow. Cupertino,
California-based Apple hasn’t released details about its next
iPhone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in  Frankfurt  at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  