-- 
Dubai’s Shares Drop on Europe Risk, U.S. Growth; Emaar Properties Retreats

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-09-05T13:40:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/dubai-s-shares-drop-on-europe-risk-u-s-growth-emaar-properties-retreats.html
Dubai’s stock index dropped for a
second day amid concern efforts to stem  Europe ’s debt crisis may
slow and a worse-than-forecast U.S. jobs report indicated the
world’s largest economy may be headed for recession.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , developer of the world’s tallest
tower in Dubai, declined for a second day.  Dubai Islamic Bank
PJSC (DIB) , the United Arab Emirates’ biggest Shariah-compliant
lender, dropped 1 percent. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  lost 0.3
percent to 1,478.84, the lowest level since Aug. 28, at the 2
p.m. close in the emirate. The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  decreased
0.9 percent and  Saudi Arabia ’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  declined
1 percent, the most since Aug. 20.  “Fear of volatile global markets and a spill over into
local and regional markets is returning,” said Nabil Farhat, a
partner at Abu Dhabi-based Al Fajer Securities. “The sharp drop
in U.S. markets last week on weak employment figures coupled
with rising fear of hurdles on the euro sovereign debt
resolution issue” prompted the drop in Gulf stocks, he said.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 1.2
percent and the MSCI Emerging Markets Index tumbled 2.6 percent
today. In  New York , the S&P Index fell 2.5 percent on Sept. 2
after a report showed U.S. payrolls were unchanged in August,
the weakest reading since September 2010. European stocks
dropped after an election loss for the party of German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  stirred speculation she’ll be less
engaged in efforts to stem the region’s debt crisis.  Oil Drops  Oil fell to its lowest price in a week in New York amid
speculation that slowing economic growth in the U.S. and  China 
will crimp fuel consumption in the world’s two biggest crude
consumers. Crude for October delivery fell as much as 2.4
percent to $84.38 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Gulf Arab oil exporters, including Saudi
Arabia and Qatar, supply about a fifth of the world’s oil.  Emaar dropped 0.4 percent to 2.83 dirhams, the lowest since
Aug. 28. Dubai Islamic slipped the most since Aug. 15 to 2
dirhams.  Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  retreated 0.4 percent and
Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  declined 1.6 percent, snapping a four-day gain.
Bahrain’s BB All Share Index and the Kuwait Stock Exchange
Unweighted Index advanced 0.2 percent. Oman’s MSM 30 Index
gained 0.4 percent, trading for the first time since a Muslim
holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  