-- 
Economies in Peril Proving Voters Aren’t Careful About What Is Wished For

-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-09-06T05:08:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/economies-in-peril-proving-voters-aren-t-careful-about-what-is-wished-for.html
The world economy is paying a price
for democracy.  As recoveries from the U.S. to  Europe  lose momentum, policy
makers are running into gridlock formed by the politicking and
ideological preferences of governments that voters have chosen.
Republicans and Democrats in the U.S. squabble about how to
restrain the budget deficit and spur job growth, while officials
throughout the euro zone differ over how best to safeguard the
future of the single currency.  The result is what JPMorgan Chase & Co. economist Bruce Kasman brands a “crisis of competency” as investors question
the ability of authorities to act fast enough to avoid repeat
recessions. JPMorgan, UBS AG and Societe Generale SA all
recently cited policy paralysis in downgrading estimates for
global recovery. World Bank President Robert Zoellick today said
Europe’s outlook is dependent on political decisions, as he 
warned the world economy is entering a "dangerous period."  “There is a gap between market horizons and political
horizons, and the markets don’t like that,” said Michala Marcussen, London-based head of economics at Societe Generale,
who last month cut her forecast for growth worldwide in 2012 to
3.9 percent from 4.6 percent. “Political uncertainty is at one
of its highest points in 20 years.”  G-7 Gathering  Fresh tests of leadership will come this week, when
President  Barack Obama  speaks to a joint session of Congress
Sept. 8 about his plans to increase employment and central
bankers and finance ministers from the Group of Seven nations
meet Sept. 9-10 in Marseille, France. The dithering shows how
economies are still reeling from the aftershocks of the
financial crisis and is a far cry from when policy makers united
in late-2008 and 2009 to shore up the global banking system and
arrest economic decline.  A surge in gold prices shows that investors don’t put much
stock in officials, said  Edward Yardeni , president of Yardeni
Research Inc. in  New York . He predicts the metal will climb to
at least $2,500 an ounce, having risen about a third since the
start of the year and exceeded $1,900 yesterday. Stocks slid as
gold advanced, with the MSCI Asia Pacific index less than 1
percent from its lowest 2011 close at 1:31 p.m. in  Tokyo .  “Gold is the asset of the last resort when investors have
lost confidence in governments and fear they’re out of
control,” he said. “Since I don’t see governments getting
their act together and moving in the right direction, gold will
go higher.”  Elections Loom  Elections in the next two years may prompt politicians to
delay painful action such as budget cuts, said Tina Fordham,
Citigroup Inc.’s senior global political analyst in  London .
 France  holds its presidential contest in May, the U.S. follows
in November and Germany,  Japan  and Italy vote in 2013.  “The use of sticking-plaster policy measures to address
deeper economic challenges is all but inevitable for the mature
democracies,” Fordham said. “G-7 politicians’ willingness to
undertake pre-emptive action to curtail risks is extremely
limited and will remain so for an extended period.”  Financial markets nevertheless should benefit if officials
are able to agree upon and implement strategies to address the
world economy’s ills, said  Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman
Sachs Asset Management in London. Global equity markets lost
about $4 trillion in August, and U.S. Treasuries posted their
biggest monthly gain since December 2008, as political disputes,
including protracted wrangling in the U.S. over the federal debt
ceiling, fueled concerns about a relapse into recession.  Leadership Gap  “Many market dislocations have occurred” because
investors are “worried about the lack of economic-policy
leadership,” O’Neill said. “If the leadership comes, the
opportunities created by this crisis will be snapped up.”  Policy makers now have less scope to act than they did
during the credit crisis and subsequent recession, sharpening
divisions about what to do next. Interest rates are at or near
record lows, and  budget-deficit  pressures trigger calls to cut,
not expand, spending.  “We don’t have as much policy weaponry,” said  Charles Wyplosz , director of the Geneva-based International Center for
Money and Banking Studies.  In the U.S., Obama and Congressional Republicans agreed to
a plan that raises the debt ceiling only after months of
negotiations. More than a quarter of Republicans in the House of
Representatives still voted against the compromise, including
Rep. Michele Bachmann of Minnesota, a favorite of the anti-big-
government Tea Party and now a presidential candidate.  Europe Infighting  In Europe, officials still are fighting over the details of
a plan they unveiled more than six weeks ago aimed at bailing
out  Greece  and defusing the region’s nearly three-year-old
crisis.  Central bankers, including Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet,
have said there are limits in what they can do and are urging
elected officials to take more action. In addition to their
loose monetary policy, authorities have pumped billions into
financial markets.  Beyond central banks, “policy makers in both the U.S. and
Europe have been distressingly missing in action,” said Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer of Pacific Investment
Management Co. in Newport Beach, California. El-Erian, whose
company manages the world’s biggest bond fund, puts the chances
of recession at 50 percent in the  euro zone  and between one-in-
three and one-in-two in the U.S.  Confidence Tumbles  Households have been spooked by the policy logjam, with
confidence about the  U.S. economy  slumping to minus 49.1 in the
week to Aug. 27, the second-lowest level in two years, according
to the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index.  Consumers have “a sense of despair and pessimism about the
role of the government,” Richard Curtin, director of a
household survey for Thomson Reuters and the University of
Michigan, said in an Aug. 26 statement.  In the euro area, confidence plunged last month by the most
since December 2008, three months after the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., as the European Commission’s index of
executive and consumer sentiment fell to 98.3 from 103.  Businesses are starting to react. H. J Heinz Co., the
world’s largest maker of ketchup, is eliminating unprofitable
promotions as customers use coupons more often and pay greater
attention to what they buy, Art Winkleblack, chief financial
officer for the Pittsburgh-based firm, told analysts Aug. 23.  Reason to Worry  Consumers, companies and investors have reason to worry as
the world economy shows signs of losing momentum, says  Mark Vitner , a senior economist at Wells Fargo Securities LLC in
Charlotte, North Carolina.  “There’s not a lot of room for policy error, and inaction
can be as bad as doing something wrong,” Vitner said. “There’s
a certain level of denial among officials as to how bad the
problem is.”  Economists at UBS cited “few signs that policy makers are
able to effectively address sovereign-debt and growth
challenges” as a reason for trimming their forecast for 2012
global expansion on Aug. 24 to 3.3 percent from 3.8 percent.  The same day, Citigroup economists cut their prediction to
4 percent from 4.4 percent, noting “escalating policy-rated
uncertainties, which will likely deter risk-taking and lead
firms to continue to emphasize balance-sheet improvement over
expansion.”  Growth Rate  The world economy grew 5 percent last year on a purchasing-
power-parity basis, which attempts to take account of currency-
value differences in measuring output, according to the
 International Monetary Fund  in Washington.  The clashes among officials have “driven home the point
that there is no cavalry to ride to the rescue,” JPMorgan’s
Kasman and his team wrote in an Aug. 26 report. The New York-
based bank now sees global growth of 3.5 percent this year and
3.4 percent in 2012, down from its early July forecast of 4
percent and 4.4 percent.  Obama acknowledged on Aug. 30 that more must be done to
bring down unemployment, which has stalled near or above 9
percent since April 2009, and reduce the deficit, which the
Congressional Budget Office estimates will reach about $1.3
trillion this year.  “Even though we’ve taken some steps in the right direction,
we have to do more,” he said at the American Legion’s 93rd
National Convention in Minneapolis. “We’ve got to break the
gridlock in Washington.”  Obama’s Plans  The president previewed parts of his Sept. 8 speech at an
Aug. 29 White House ceremony, saying he will lay out proposals
“to put more money in the pockets of working families and
middle-class families, to make it easier for small businesses to
hire people, to put construction crews to work rebuilding our
nation’s railways and airports,” and other measures to spur
growth.  House Republicans are taking a different tack. They plan a
series of votes in the next few weeks on legislation to limit
regulations, including environmental and labor rules they say
burden businesses and discourage hiring. The two sides also are
at odds over how to reduce the deficit, with the Republicans
rejecting Obama’s call to couple spending cuts that both sides
agree are needed with higher taxes.  “The markets are pretty uncertain because they don’t know
what’s going to happen with the fiscal situation,” said
Nicholas Bloom, an associate professor at  Stanford University  in
California who studies the effect uncertainty has on economies.
“The solutions being offered by the Republicans and the
Democrats are really pretty different and political power is so
evenly balanced. A small thing could flip it either way.”  Eye on Voters  Policy differences also plague Europe, with Finland’s
demand for collateral on new loans for Greece only the latest
obstacle governments have thrown in their own way as they fight
the debt turmoil. Fearful of a voter backlash, legislatures are
taking their time ratifying a plan to increase the size of a
regional rescue fund and let it buy bonds in markets and aid
banks. The delay has left the ECB -- whose policy makers convene
this week -- propping up markets by purchasing Spanish and
Italian debt for the first time.  “One cannot deny there is a certain amount of uncertainty
emanating from the political sphere, so we hope these problems
can be sorted out,” ECB Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny
said in an Aug. 26 interview.  Rescue Fund  Even when the latest round of negotiations is resolved,
doubt will persist over whether the European Financial Stability
Facility’s firepower is big enough, at 440 billion euros ($619
billion), and sufficiently nimble, given it must await a request
from a debt-hit government before buying bonds and counterparts
need to endorse the assistance. Also still in question is what
exact role investors will play in the second bailout of Greece.  There also is disagreement about how to manage the euro
area, leading to speculation its composition may change over
time. Having initially resisted bailouts, German Chancellor
Angela Merkel now is pushing back against calls for governments
to issue joint bonds. Her opposition reflects voter anger over
Germany signing the biggest checks of any country for Greece,
Portugal and Ireland. Merkel’s party this week lost an election
in her home state, its fifth defeat this year.  In Japan, Yoshihiko Noda last week became the country’s
sixth prime minister in five years. He faces a debate about
raising taxes to pay for reconstruction from the March
earthquake and tsunami, and whether this would hinder efforts to
revive an economy that’s shrunk for the past three quarters and
is beset by deflationary trends.  Japan Rebuilding  “It’s not clear how fast Noda can pass the third extra
budget,” said  Takuji Okubo , chief Japan economist at  Societe
Generale  in Tokyo. “We may end up having a new prime minister
next year.”  Failure to get a grip risks leaders repeating the mistakes
of Japan in the 1990s that led to rolling recessions and
deflation, said  Stephen King , chief economist at HSBC Holdings
Plc in London.  “Our political leaders are in denial,” said King, a
former U.K. Treasury official. “The longer they leave the hard
decisions, the worse things will become.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  