-- 
Egypt’s Local Borrowing May Backfire on Economy: Arab Credit

-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-09-05T20:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/egypt-s-local-borrowing-may-backfire-on-economy-arab-credit.html
Egypt ’s increased reliance on local
lenders to finance its budget shortfall may stifle any economic
recovery by reducing the incentive of banks to lend to companies.  The Arab country’s local-currency borrowing costs have
surged to the highest levels in almost three years as foreign
investors dumped the debt following the uprising that ousted
President  Hosni Mubarak  in February. The country’s interim
government rejected international loans to fund this year’s
budget deficit, leaving local banks to shoulder the burden.  The government’s domestic borrowing is coming at “a very
high cost and it chokes off resources that could be made
available to the private sector,” said Magda Kandil,  executive
director  and director of research at the Egyptian Centre for
Economic Studies. Banks can “easily refrain from lending to the
private sector and capitalize” on “attractive and less risky”
 government securities , she said.  The yield on one-year treasury bills has soared 263 basis
points, or 2.63 percentage points, since the last pre-revolt
sale to 13.07 percent as Egypt redirected its bond sales to
bills with maturities of one year or less to avoid paying higher
interest in the long term. Loans  were the equivalent of  50
percent of deposits at the commercial banks in June, down from
52 percent a year ago, according to central bank data. That
compares with 93 percent in the  United Arab Emirates  as of May.  Shrinking Economy  Egypt’s economy contracted 4.2 percent in the quarter that
ended in March amid the worst political crisis to hit the
country in three decades. The  budget deficit  is expected to
widen to 9.9 percent of gross domestic product this fiscal year
from 9.5 percent a year ago, according to EFG-Hermes Holding SAE,
the biggest publicly traded Arab investment Bank. The government
said in June it’s targeting 8.6 percent.  Higher borrowing costs may curtail lending to companies,
potentially slowing economic growth by up to 1 percentage point
in the next one to two years if they don’t retreat, said  Jaap Meijer , the Dubai-based head of the bank team at AlembicHC.  “Private-sector demand was actually growing at a healthy
pace last year, but that’s no longer the case because of the
uprising and possibly because of the increase in  interest
rates ,” Meijer said. “Public banks appear to be more keen to
lend to the government because these investments carry high
yields and attract zero risk-weighting.”  Foreign Investors Depart  Foreign investors reduced their holdings of  Egyptian T-
bills  by 34.9 billion pounds ($5.9 billion) in the first six-
months of the year to 24.5 billion pounds, according to central
bank data. The country’s 39 private and public banks stepped in,
increasing their investments by 46 percent and 56 percent,
respectively. Bank of Alexandria, the Cairo-based unit of
 Italy ’s  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , increased its holdings by 70
percent to 8.16 billion pounds.  Egypt turned down a $3 billion  International Monetary Fund 
loan in June. Samir Radwan, the then minister of finance, said
the government would rely on sales of local-currency debt to
finance 90 percent of its budget deficit, expected to reach 134
billion pounds this fiscal year. Radwan has since been replaced
by Hazem El Beblawi, who confirmed the government’s strategy in
an e-mailed statement Sept. 4.  The government  plans  to sell securities this quarter
ranging in maturity from three months to three years valued at
151.5 billion pounds, the highest amount on record and a 12
percent increase from the same period last year.  Ability to Borrow  Reliance on local lenders “that’s taking place now will
for sure put pressure on the liquidity of the banks and will
affect the capability of the private sector to borrow,” said
Hani Serie El-Din, former chairman of Egypt’s financial markets
regulator, the  Capital Markets Authority . “It’s quite a
challenge. It will impact growth.”  Egypt’s economy will grow by 1 percent this year, according
to IMF projections. That compares with a contraction of 3.3
percent estimated by EFG-Hermes.  Still, some non-government banks didn’t increase their
holdings of government debt in the aftermath of the revolution
such as  Commercial International Bank Egypt SAE (COMI) , the country’s
biggest publicly traded lender. The bank, also known as CIB, cut
its investments in T-bills by 24 percent to 7 billion pounds.  The potential effects of high Egyptian-pound borrowing
costs on economic growth may also be mitigated by the ability of
large corporations to borrow in dollars and their strong cash
positions, said Meijer.  “The commercial banks we cover have actually reduced their
treasury-bill holdings, so we expect them to continue to lend to
private businesses when demand returns,” he said.  Lower Credit Rating  Egypt’s local borrowing expenses rose as its credit rating
was cut amid the unrest.  Fitch Ratings  cut Egypt’s credit
worthiness one level, to BB, on Feb. 3, leaving it two levels
below investment grade. Moody’s said in June the “political
environment was the main source of uncertainty. It lowered its
rating of Egypt twice this year to Ba3, three levels below
investment grade.  The yield on country’s 5.75 percent 10-year dollar bond due
April 2020 fell to 5.54 percent from the Jan. 31 peak of 7.07
percent. The cost of protecting government debt against default
for five years was at 406 basis points on Sept. 5, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
That compares with 212 basis points on Sept. 2 to protect
Tunisian government debt.  Egypt will need to reduce its budget deficit, achieve
political stability and ease restrictions on lending to small
and medium businesses to boost economic growth, said the
Egyptian Centre for Economic Studies’ Kandil.  “There’s no question we’re going through a shaky
environment for financing demand from the private sector,” she
said. “But we have to recognize that this demand can return if
we can apply fiscal consolidation, level the playing field for
small borrowers and well-connected businessmen. With more
political stability, that will create jobs and boost growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  