-- 
Telefonica Revamps Regional Units in Bid to Stem Stock Drop

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-09-06T08:28:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/telefonica-names-valbuena-to-head-latin-america-in-sweeping-reorganization.html
Telefonica SA (TEF)  folded its struggling
domestic unit into a European division and shuffled the heads of
its regional businesses as  Spain ’s largest telephone company
tries to halt a slide in its stock.  Chief Strategy Officer Santiago Fernandez Valbuena, 53, 
will take over the Latin American unit from Jose Maria Alvarez-Pallete, who will oversee the enlarged European unit 
including Spain, Telefonica  said  yesterday. The former phone 
monopoly also appointed Angel Vila, 47, as head of finance and 
said it will create a digital division in  London  run by Matthew Key, 48.  “This is a move from Telefonica to bolster its global
brand and digital focus while erasing the negative weight that
Spain plays,” said Francisco Salvador, a strategist at FGA/MG
Valores in Madrid. “Both Valbuena and Pallete continue to be
key players within the company as they’ll head those areas where
the company has its biggest growth.”  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta, 66, is
counting on Latin American growth to boost revenue, with Spain’s
21 percent unemployment rate hampering its business there. The
Madrid-based company is trying to stem a market share loss as
clients look for cheaper deals from operators such as  Jazztel
Plc (JAZ)  and  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) ’s Yoigo unit.  Telefonica rose 0.2 percent to 13.52 euros in Madrid
trading as of 10:21 a.m. today. The stock has declined 20
percent this year, making it the seventh-worst performer on the
Bloomberg Europe Telecommunications Services Index of 21
companies.  Procurement  Royal Bank of  Scotland  analysts including Lawrence Sugarman
said today that Telefonica’s new structure may help to cut costs
by centralizing procurement and the development of new
offerings, similar to what British phone company BT Group Plc
has done. The management of operating divisions along
continental lines could also “offer greater scope for
operational efficiency,” RBS said.  Telefonica’s sales from Spanish operations fell 6.6 percent
in the second quarter, with the profit margin sliding 2.1
percentage points to 45.3 percent. With its new corporate
structure, the company wants to speed up decision-making
processes and form a more simple and balanced organization,
according to the statement.  In  Latin America , Telefonica’s second-quarter revenue
jumped 12 percent to 7.11 billion euros ($10 billion), making up
almost half of the total. Operating income before depreciation
and amortization gained 10 percent. Revenue from  Brazil  surged
40 percent after Telefonica last year took over Vivo
Participacoes SA, the nation’s largest wireless operator.  Longer-Term Strategy  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at Sanford C Bernstein in
London, said the changes won’t result in a quick transformation
of the company.  “They have top talent so redeploying them to different
places may well mean that fresh eyes come up with new
solutions,” Bienenstock said. “That said, there are no quick
fixes for the structural problems Telefonica faces.”  The Spanish operator will seek organic earnings growth in
the markets where it already operates in  Europe  and Latin
America, and isn’t interested in entering the U.S., Chief
Operating Officer Julio Linares told reporters yesterday during
a telecommunications conference in Santander, Spain.  Interest in U.S. competition was stoked after the U.S.
 Justice Department  sued last week to block the planned $39
billion takeover of Deutsche Telekom AG’s T-Mobile USA business
by AT&T Inc.  Digital Business  Key, the new chief of the Internet unit Telefonica Digital,
had been running the company’s European operations. The Web
division will include social-networking site Tuenti and Jajah, a
California-based internet-phone company. Guillermo Ansaldo, who
was head of the Spanish unit, will become the chief of global
resources, a new unit aimed at guaranteeing “the profitability
and sustainability” of all businesses within the group.  Telefonica said in April that sales will climb 1 percent to
4 percent over three years from an adjusted base of 63.1 billion
euros in 2010. The company plans to cut debt to between 2 and
2.5 times operating income before depreciation and amortization.
The operator intends to pay a 2012 dividend of at least 1.75
euros per share.  “We’re fully convinced we will meet our earnings forecast
while keeping investments and our financial agreements with
shareholders,” Linares said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in  Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  