-- 
Emerging-Market Shares Fall to Lowest in Four Weeks on Europe, China Data

-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-09-05T21:23:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/emerging-market-stocks-decline-to-lowest-in-a-week-on-u-s-employment-data.html
Emerging-market stocks fell the most
in four weeks on concern the crisis facing Europe’s most-
indebted nations will worsen and after a Chinese services index
sank to a record low.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index dropped 3.2 percent to
989.59 at 4:30 p.m. in  New York , the most since Aug. 8.  Brazil ’s
Bovespa Index dropped 2.7 percent, bringing its two-day slump to
the steepest in almost a month. Mexico’s IPC Index tumbled 3.6
percent in its third day of decline, while  South Africa ’s
benchmark sank 2.1 percent.  South Korea ’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  retreated
4.4 percent while  China ’s benchmark gauge slipped 2 percent.  An election loss for German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s
party in her home state fueled concern opposition is growing to
bailouts for debt-saddled European nations. A Chinese services-
industry index fell to 50.6 in August from a previously reported
53.5 in July, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said in a
statement today, adding to evidence that growth is moderating in
the world’s second-largest economy. A number of more than 50
indicates expansion.  Europe  “remains a key area of concern for investors, due
to the ongoing sovereign debt crisis and further evidence of an
economic slowdown,” analysts including Slava Smolyaninov,
deputy head of research at UralSib Financial Corp. in Moscow,
wrote in an e-mailed report today. “Poor macro data and growing
concerns over the slowdown in the world economy are pushing
equities lower,” they said.  A U.S. government report on Sept. 2 showed the economy
posted zero job growth last month and data tomorrow may show
 service industries  grew at the slowest pace in more than a year.  Brazilian, Mexican Stocks  The Bovespa Index has declined 5.4 percent in the past two
trading sessions as Brazilian economists lifted their inflation
forecasts after the central bank unexpectedly cut  interest rates 
last week for the first time in two years.  MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA, the iron-ore miner controlled
by Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista , plunged 6.2 percent in
Sao Paulo as prices of base metals dropped. Tim Participacoes SA
plummeted 5.8 percent after newspaper  Valor Economico  reported
that controlling shareholder Telecom Italia SpA may sell some
part of its stake. Tim denied the report in a regulatory filing.  Cemex SAB, the largest cement maker in the Americas,
declined 3.2 percent to 6.11 pesos in  Mexico  trading, the lowest
closing price since March 9, 2009.  Currencies Weaken  Emerging-market currencies weakened against the dollar as
last week’s U.S. job report heightened concern the world’s
largest economy is slipping into recession. The Hungarian
forint’s 1.9 percent slide led declines, followed by the Polish
zloty’s 1.5 percent loss. Brazil’s real dropped 0.3 percent
while the  Mexican peso  fell 1 percent. The Korean won slipped
0.5 percent.  The WIG20 Index fell 3.5 percent, led by a 4.7 percent
decline in PKO Bank Polska SA, Poland’s largest lender. The BUX
Index sank 3 percent, with OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s biggest
bank, losing 1.5 percent.  The Micex Index retreated 1.5 percent in Moscow and the
ruble slumped 1 percent against the dollar, as Brent oil tumbled
2 percent in  London .  India ’s Sensex lost 0.6 percent in Mumbai after the
country’s services industry grew at the slowest pace in more
than two years in August. The services Purchasing Managers’
Index fell to 53.8 last month from 58.2 in July, HSBC and Markit
Economics said in an e-mailed statement today.  Taiwan’s Taiex Index lost 2.7 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 376, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 Lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  