-- 
Merkel Said to Tell CDU Members That Greece Must Meet Conditions for Aid

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-09-06T07:48:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/merkel-said-to-tell-cdu-members-that-greece-must-meet-conditions-for-aid.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told
members of her Christian Democrats that Greece will not receive
aid payments due this month unless it meets conditions of the
rescue, two party officials said.  The remarks, made at a meeting of ruling party lawmakers in
Berlin late yesterday, were repeated by Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  and reiterate existing policy, one of the
officials said, speaking on condition of anonymity because the
talks were in private.  “It was very clear that we expect Greece to meet its
obligations, that there can’t be more aid without adequate
behavior by Greece,”  Peter Altmaier , the chief whip for
Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union , told reporters after the
talks. “But it was also very clear that we stand by our
commitments within the euro stabilization and that we’re ready
to maintain and defend the euro as our common currency.”  Merkel’s coalition is trying to appease voter anger at
government moves to prevent a euro-region breakup by putting
more taxpayers’ money on the line. The lower house will hold a
first reading on Sept. 8 of a bill raising  Germany ’s share of
loan guarantees to 211 billion euros ($297 billion) from 123
billion euros -- four days after Merkel’s CDU suffered its
worst-ever result in an election in her home state.  “The basis for all these programs is that we provide aid
under certain conditions,” Klaus-Peter Flosbach, CDU financial-
policy spokesman in parliament, said in an interview. “There
can be a situation in which we are no longer willing to help
when the conditions aren’t met.”  Greek Contraction  Merkel’s government told Greece to step up its commitment
to meeting budget-cutting targets on Sept. 2, saying that
“reliability” is essential to counter the market turmoil
spread by the debt crisis. It issued the reprimand after Greek
Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said the economy’s
contraction this year would be steeper than forecast.  “ Greece  must keep to the conditions or it just won’t get
the money,” Hermann Otto Solms, the deputy floor leader and
finance spokesman of Merkel’s Free Democratic Party coalition
partner, told reporters in Berlin. Even so, any such move would
have to be a “common decision” by euro-area governments and is
not a matter for Germany alone to decide, he said.  For all the unease, a majority of lawmakers from Merkel’s
bloc voted in favor of introducing the draft bill to revamp the
European rescue fund at yesterday’s meeting, Altmaier said.  Votes Against  Twelve lawmakers voted against the bill and seven
abstained, one of the officials said. Six lawmakers from
Merkel’s Free Democratic Party allies withheld their support at
a separate caucus meeting, Deutschlandfunk radio reported today.  The closed-door ballots were a test run before a plenary-
session vote on Sept. 29. Merkel needs 311 ballots in favor of
the changes from the 620 lawmakers sitting in parliament’s lower
chamber, with her CDU/CSU and FDP bloc comprising 330 lawmakers.
The opposition Social Democrats and the Greens have indicated
they’ll support the bill, ensuring it will pass.  “There were 12 votes against in the CDU/CSU and several
abstentions, but this isn’t the final decision about the law,”
 Michael Fuchs , deputy CDU leader in parliament, told
Deutschlandfunk. “We still have to discuss parliament’s say in
the matter. Some people have concerns on that score. After these
discussions, those colleagues of mine will back the law.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  