-- 
Merkel Says Euro Concerns Mean the Fall ‘Won’t Be Boring’

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-09-05T12:33:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/merkel-says-euro-concerns-mean-the-fall-won-t-be-boring-1-.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
rejected calls from within her coalition that some countries are
kicked out of the euro, saying more needed to be done to
stabilize the currency.  Merkel, speaking to reporters in Berlin today after her
 Christian Democratic Union  was defeated in an election in her
home state, defended her decision to campaign on the euro,
saying that the “topic is on people’s minds.”  “We’re right in the middle of a debate about the euro and
its future,” Merkel said. “People are right to expect
solutions. So we have our hands full. At the same time, you
can’t turn every state election into a bellwether for national
elections because then you won’t get anything done.”  The ballot yesterday in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania,
where Merkel’s election district is located, underscores the
limits on the chancellor as voters resist her bid to prevent a
euro-region breakup by putting more taxpayer money on the line.
In weekend interviews, members of her  Christian Democrats  and
Free Democratic Party coalition partner said it was time to
consider ejecting over-indebted states from the euro area.  “I’m not even considering the possibility because I think
we would start a domino effect that would be extremely dangerous
for our currency system,” Merkel said. Euro-area countries need
to “move closer together and become more binding in their
agreements” to cut debt.  Merkel spoke before parliament considers a reworked
European rescue fund and the top constitutional court rules on a
challenge to  Germany ’s participation in bailouts. She declined
to comment on the court ruling, while saying the government
“needs to muster a majority of our own in the coalition and I’m
confident we will get it.”  “The fall won’t be boring,” Merkel said. “There’s much
to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  