-- 
Metorex More Than Doubles Its First-Half Profit on Copper Prices, Output

-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 
2011-09-05T08:26:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/metorex-copper-output-rises-5-to-26-562-tons-in-six-months-through-june.html
Metorex Ltd. (MTX) , a miner of copper and
cobalt in Zambia and the  Democratic Republic  of Congo, more than
doubled first-half profit as prices and output increased.  Metorex, being taken over by  China ’s Jinchuan Group Ltd.,
posted net income of $28.2 million, up from $12.6 million a year
earlier, the Johannesburg-based company said in a statement.  Copper production rose 5 percent to 26,562 metric tons and
cobalt 18 percent to 1,890 tons, with both expected to continue
at current levels, it said. Preliminary work has begun in the
DRC on the $270 million Kinsenda project, expected to boost
output to 80,000 tons a year in the next two to three years,
Chief Executive Officer Terence Goodlace said in an interview.  Kinsenda may take 18-24 months to “get going,” he said.  Jinchuan, the second-largest cobalt producer and fourth-
largest nickel company by capacity, says it may use the planned
$1.36 billion takeover of Metorex as a platform to expand its
African metals operations. The bid for Metorex and its copper
mines in the DRC follows Jinchuan’s acquisition of a stake in
Johannesburg-based  Wesizwe (WEZ)  Platinum Ltd. this year as the Asian
company seeks to become a multinational minerals producer.  The Chinese company may fast-track some Metorex projects,
Goodlace said by phone. “Jinchuan has a stronger balance sheet
than Metorex and will work within its means,” he said.  Metorex is on course to complete the Jinchuan deal by
December, he said. The company needs approval from competition
authorities in  South Africa , Zambia and China, permission from
DRC business partners, and the go ahead from China’s government.  Metorex declined 0.2 percent to 8.33 rand by 10:12 a.m. in
Johannesburg trading, while the benchmark FTSE/JSE Africa All
Share Index of regional stocks dropped 1.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  