-- 
EU May Force Clearing Houses to Share Data

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-09-05T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/eu-may-force-exchanges-to-share-data-to-enhance-clearing-house-competition.html
The European Union may require
exchanges to share information with clearing houses operated by
rival companies to remove “commercial barriers” that hinder
competition for handling trades.  Trading venues should provide data access on a
“transparent and non-discriminatory basis,” according to a
document obtained by Bloomberg News. Banks and trading
facilities would also have to publicize “bid and offer prices
and the depth of trading interests” for bonds and derivatives,
to increase transparency in markets that were previously subject
to fewer regulations, according to the European Commission
document.  “Anyone who executes transactions on own account in
equities will be bound to publish quotes in specified price and
size and deal,”  Simon Gleeson , a financial services partner at
 Clifford Chance LLP  in London, said in a telephone interview.  The measures are part of a wider overhaul by the
commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm, of trading rules
for financial markets following the 2008 contraction in the
credit markets that followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. The commission has also sought to curb naked
short-selling and trading in non-standardized derivatives.  The proposals “would prohibit discriminatory practices and
prevent barriers that may prevent competition for the clearing
of financial instruments,” according to the document, which is
dated Aug. 18. Greater competition would “lower investment and
borrowing costs.”  The European Commission declined to comment.  Eurex, LCH  Clearinghouses -- such as Eurex Clearing AG and London’s
LCH.Clearnet Ltd. -- operate as central counterparties for every
buy and sell order executed by their members, who post
collateral, reducing the risk of a trader defaulting.  The business is becoming more valuable amid tougher
derivatives trading regulation and a merger wave that has seen
more than $20 billion of exchange takeovers announced in the
last seven months.  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  asked European Union
regulators in June to approve its plan to buy  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  in a
$7.1 billion deal that would put more than 90 percent of the
region’s exchange-traded derivatives market in the hands of one
organization.  James Dunseath at NYSE Euronext declined to comment.
Rachael Harper at LCH.Clearnet and Heiner Seidel at  Deutsche
Boerse  couldn’t be reached to comment.  The European Securities and Markets Authority should have
the power to impose position limits on traders in crisis
situations when “the stability of the whole or part of the
financial system” is threatened or “delivery arrangements for
physical commodities” could break down, the document says.  ESMA’s role is to coordinate the work of national
securities regulators in the 27-nation EU.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  