-- 
EU’s Barnier Seeks Compromise on Draft Naked Short-Selling Law

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-09-05T14:40:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/eu-s-barnier-seeks-compromise-on-draft-naked-short-selling-law.html
Michel Barnier , the European Union’s
financial services chief, will try to build a consensus for a
draft short-selling law at a meeting with lawmakers and national
governments.  Barnier will represent the European Commission at a meeting
tomorrow in Brussels,  Amadeu Altafaj , a spokesman for the EU’s
executive arm, said in an e-mail. Barnier has called for all
parties to complete negotiations on the law as soon as possible,
saying that the measures would improve financial stability.  Representatives of the European Parliament and  Poland ,
which holds the rotating presidency of the 27-nation EU, need to
reach deals on restrictions that may be placed on so-called
naked credit-default swaps on sovereign debt, and on what curbs
should be placed on naked short selling of stocks, before the
legislation can be approved.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and the parliament have
called for the EU to ban naked CDS on sovereign debt and
introduce curbs on some naked short selling because of concerns
that such activities have fueled the euro zone’s debt crisis.
Germany already has restrictions on using swaps to bet on
sovereign defaults, and on naked short selling of government
bonds and stocks.  Another negotiation session has been scheduled for Sept.
20. They also need to decide what emergency powers should be
given to the  European Securities and Markets Authority.   Short sellers borrow assets and sell them, betting the
price will fall, buying them later and pocketing the difference.
Naked short selling is when traders short shares without ever
actually taking possession of them.  Policy Split  Governments and lawmakers remain split over what curbs to
place on naked CDS on  government bonds , according to documents
obtained by Bloomberg news. While the parliament is seeking an
EU-wide ban that regulators could lift if the liquidity of their
sovereign  debt market  was threatened, national authorities favor
allowing states to opt in to any restrictions.  On naked short selling of stocks, the two sides are
discussing a compromise that would require traders to have
located stocks they plan to sell short, and to have a
“reasonable expectation” of obtaining them, the documents say.
Parliament had previously called for traders to have located and
reserved the securities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at  jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  