-- 
Euro Declines Before German Factory Orders Report, Swiss Franc Advances

-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-09-06T06:01:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/euro-declines-before-german-factory-orders-report-swiss-franc-advances.html
The euro fell for a fifth day
against the Swiss franc before a report forecast to show German
factory orders declined in July, adding to concern that the
region’s debt crisis will curtail the economic recovery.  The 17-nation euro weakened to the lowest level since March
versus the yen before  Finland ’s Finance Minister meets today in
Berlin with her German and Dutch counterparts to discuss a
Finnish demand for collateral from Greece. The franc
strengthened against all of its 16 most-traded peers as Asian
shares fell after European stocks slumped and before data that
economists said will show U.S. service-sector growth slowed,
boosting demand for the Swiss currency as a haven.  “The euro is being sold because of concern about  Europe ’s
economic slowdown and its debt crisis,” said Kengo Suzuki,
manager of the foreign-bond department in Tokyo at Mizuho
Securities Co., a unit of  Japan ’s third-largest listed bank.
“Stock drops boost risk aversion, triggering buying of haven
currencies such as the Swiss franc, yen and dollar.”  The euro weakened 0.6 percent to 1.1027 Swiss francs as of
6:45 a.m. in  London  from 1.1097 yesterday. The common currency
fell to as low as $1.4039, the least since July 18, before
trading at $1.4050 from $1.4098. It slid to 107.84 yen, the
weakest since March 17 and was at 107.90 yen from 108.40 yen.
The U.S. currency fetched 76.81 yen from 76.89 yen, and dropped
0.3 percent to 78.45 Swiss centimes.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of regional shares fell 1.6
percent. The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index sank 1.9 percent yesterday, while
Stoxx Europe 600 Index lost 4.1 percent.  German Orders  German orders, adjusted for seasonal swings and inflation,
dropped 1.5 percent from June, when they increased 1.8 percent,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News before the release of the data today.  Another report today may show gross domestic product in the
euro area rose 0.2 percent from the first quarter, when it
increased 0.8 percent, in line with an Aug. 16 estimate. That
would be the slowest pace since the April-June period in 2009.  The euro dropped to a seven-week low versus the greenback
on heightening speculation the  European Central Bank  will halt
interest-rate increases amid signs of an economic slowdown.  While all the 57 economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect
the central bank to leave its benchmark interest rate unchanged
at 1.5 percent at its policy meeting on Sept. 8, traders bet it
will cut rates by 32 basis points over the next 12 months,
compared with a 14-basis-point-decrease indicated on Sept. 1,
according to a Credit Suisse Group AG index based on swaps.  Rate-Cut Speculation  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled last week the
bank may revise its assessment that there is a risk of inflation
accelerating.  “It’s inevitable for the ECB to change their stance on
inflation,” said Toshiya Yamauchi, a senior currency analyst in
Tokyo at Ueda Harlow Ltd., which provides foreign-exchange
margin-trading services. “If they don’t immediately lower
borrowing costs, they may at least signal  interest-rate  cuts.
The euro will trade lower heading into the ECB meeting.”  Finance chiefs from Finland, Germany and the Netherlands
are set to gather as the Nordic nation is struggling to piece
together a deal that satisfies Finnish voter demands for extra
assurances their bailout contributions will be repaid.  Finland will find a Greek collateral model that respects
the priority creditor status of the  International Monetary Fund 
and honors existing bondholder claims, Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  said yesterday. The deadlock over AAA rated Finland’s
insistence that it get collateral for new Greek loans threatens
to delay rescue measures in the euro region, where efforts to
contain the debt crisis are unraveling on multiple fronts.  Slowing Services Sector  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s non-manufacturing
index for the U.S. fell to 51 last month, the lowest since
January 2010, from 52.7 in July, a Bloomberg survey shows. A
reading of 50 is the dividing line between expansion and
contraction. President Barack Obama is scheduled to outline his
plans to spur the economy and job growth in a Sept. 8 address to
Congress.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, climbed for a
sixth day. The gauge gained 0.3 percent to 75.338, after
reaching 75.385, the highest since July 19.  “The safe-haven bid for the  U.S. dollar  is likely to keep
the currency well supported, especially given the deterioration
in the picture on the other side of the pond,”  Mitul Kotecha ,
head of global currency strategy in  Hong Kong  at Credit Agricole
CIB, wrote in a note to clients today.  The Australian dollar fell to its lowest in more than a
week after a government report showed that net exports detracted
0.5 percentage point from gross domestic product growth in the
second quarter.  Australia ’s dollar slid to $1.0511 from $1.0551 yesterday
and touched $1.0496, the least since Aug. 26.  The so-called Aussie held losses after the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia kept the benchmark rate unchanged at 4.75 percent
today.  To contact the reporters for this story:
Monami Yui in  Tokyo  at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net .
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 