-- 
European Investor Confidence Drops

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-09-05T08:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/european-investor-confidence-drops-to-2-year-low-on-debt-crisis.html
European investor confidence fell to
the lowest level in more than two years in September after the
region’s debt crisis and a global slowdown raised concern that
the economy could slip back into recession.  An index measuring sentiment in the 17-nation euro region
fell to minus 15.4 from minus 13.5 in August, the Limburg,
Germany-based research institute said in an e-mailed statement
today. That’s the lowest since August 2009. A gauge of current
business conditions plunged to minus 3.25 from to 3.5, while an
indicator of expectations rose to minus 26.75 from minus 29.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index has shed 13 percent since Aug. 1
after Europe’s debt crisis spilled into Italy and  Spain , forcing
the  European Central Bank  to start purchasing their bonds. The
euro-area economy almost stalled in the second quarter after
 France ’s recovery ground to a halt and German growth slowed more
than expected.  “Investors are just as disappointed by the persistent debt
crisis and weak stocks as they are by the failure of central
banks and politicians to find a solution,”  Sentix  said in the
statement. “From investors’ point of view, pressure is now
increasing on the ECB to divert from its current tightening
strategy.”  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled last week the
bank may revise its assessment that inflation risks are on the
upside, paving the way for a halt in its rate increases.
Inflation, which the ECB aims to keep below 2 percent, held at
2.5 percent in August as weaker global growth damped demand for
fuel, driving down  oil prices .  The ECB will publish new growth and inflation forecasts
after a meeting of policy makers on Sept. 8. In June, the
central bank predicted euro-region inflation would average 2.6
percent this year and 1.7 percent in 2012. Growth was projected
slow to 1.7 percent in 2012 from 1.9 percent this year.  Sentix said 957 investors participated in its monthly
survey, which was conducted between Sep. 1 and Sep. 3. The
results are never revised.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  