-- 
European Stocks Drop on Merkel’s Election Defeat; Clariant Sinks

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-09-05T16:11:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/european-stock-index-futures-drop-on-fifth-merkel-election-loss-this-year.html
European stocks tumbled, with the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index posting its biggest two-day drop since
March 2009, as investors speculated that support for bailing out
Europe’s indebted nations may fade.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  both tumbled
more than 8 percent after the U.S. sued 17 lenders to recoup
$196 billion and the cost of insuring against default in Europe
surge to a record.  Clariant AG (CLN)  led chemical makers lower,
tumbling 16 percent after the company cut this year’s earnings
forecasts.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index lost 4.1 percent to 223.45 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in  London  as all 19 industry groups
declined. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures expiring in
September retreated 2 percent. U.S. stock markets are closed
today for the Labor Day holiday.  “Europe is being hammered on the debt crisis,” said
Henrik Drusebjerg, senior strategist at Nordea Bank AB in
Copenhagen. “It’s Merkel getting slapped at the regional
election yesterday and it’s the Finns demanding collateral for
the money they’re wiring to Greece.”  The benchmark Stoxx 600 plunged 2.4 percent on Sept. 2,
after a worse-than-forecast U.S. jobs report added to concern
that America’s economic recovery is stalling. The gauge lost 10
percent last month amid concern that global economic growth is
slowing as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis spreads.  German Election  Merkel’s party yesterday suffered its fifth election loss
this year after the Chancellor failed to sway voters in her home
state with a campaign based on her handling of the euro area’s
debt crisis.  The Social Democrats, the main opposition party nationally,
took 35.7 percent to win yesterday’s election in Mecklenburg-
Western Pomerania, while Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union  had
23.1 percent, its worst result since voting began in 1990 after
reunification that year between  West Germany  and the former
communist East  Germany .  Merkel’s election result “shows voters’ discontent with
the way she has been handling the debt crisis,” said  Chris Weston , an institutional trader at IG Markets in  Melbourne  in a
telephone interview. “There is a confluence of negative factors
which are detracting from the investment case for equities.”  The cost of insuring against default on European sovereign
and financial debt surged to records on concern the region’s
debt crisis is worsening.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of swaps on 15
governments rose 15 basis points to 325 while the Markit iTraxx
Financial Index linked to senior debt of 25 banks and insurers
soared 24 basis points to 270, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Both gauges are at all-time highs based on closing prices.  European Markets Tumble  National benchmark indexes dropped in all 18 western
European markets. Germany’s  DAX Index (DAX)  tumbled 5.3 percent,
sending the gauge’s companies to their cheapest-ever valuation
as a multiple of estimated earnings, according to Bloomberg data
that began in 2006. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index dropped 3.6
percent and France’s CAC 40 Index lost 4.7 percent.  UBS initiated an “underweight” recommendation on global
equities in a report dated Sept. 2, saying risk assets have come
under pressure from weak data and a re-escalation in Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  “Developments suggest that rising risk premiums will push
global equities lower in the period immediately ahead,” wrote
Larry Hatheway, chief economist at UBS. “The circuit breaker
lies with policy and politics.”  European efforts to contain the region’s debt crisis risk
unraveling as individual nations’ demands for collateral,
Greece’s deteriorating economic predicament and wavering
commitment to austerity packages from euro members such as Italy
throw any recovery in doubt.  Finland Seeks Compromise  Finland’s Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  said the country
will increase its efforts to find a compromise with Europe on
its demand for collateral for loans to Greece.  Deutsche Bank tumbled 8.9 percent to 23.72 euros, Credit
Suisse plunged 8.1 percent to 19.99 Swiss francs and  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  declined 12 percent to 21.78 pence after
the lenders were among 17 to be sued by the U.S. to recoup money
spent on mortgage-backed securities bought by  Fannie Mae  and
 Freddie Mac .  The Federal Housing Finance Agency, on behalf of Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac, filed the lawsuits in New York state and
federal courts and in federal court in Connecticut. The FHFA
accused the banks of misleading Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac about
the soundness of the mortgages underlying the securities.  HSBC, Barclays, SocGen  Among European lenders, the FHFA claimed Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac bought $14.2 billion from Deutsche Bank, $14.1
billion from Credit Suisse, $30.4 billion from RBS, $6.2 billion
from  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , $4.9 billion from  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and $1.3
billion from  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA. The FHFA sued  UBS AG (UBSN)  in July.
HSBC slid 3.8 percent to 504.5 pence, Barclays lost 6.7 percent
to 154.15 pence and Societe Generale sank 8.6 percent to 20.25
euros.  Banks also fell as the premium they pay to borrow in
dollars for three months through the swaps markets climbed to
the most since December 2008, a sign that Europe’s lenders may
be struggling to get funding.  The cost of converting euro-based payments into dollars, as
measured by the three-month cross-currency basis swap, fell 4.8
basis points to 95 basis points below the euro interbank offered
rate in London, indicating a higher premium to buy the
greenback, Bloomberg data showed.  Clariant Shares Sink  Clariant plunged 16 percent to 6.95 francs, its biggest
drop since at least 1995, after the company cut its projections
for sales and profitability this year after a slowdown in demand
in some markets and a gain in the Swiss franc.  Clariant now forecasts full-year sales of 7 billion francs
($8.9 billion) to 7.2 billion francs, down from an earlier
prediction of 7.8 billion francs to 8 billion francs. Clariant
also lowered its projected margin range to 12.8 percent to 13.2
percent from an earlier 13.5 percent to 14.5 percent.  France’s Arkema retreated 8.2 percent to 46.66 euros,
Germany’s Wacker Chemie AG dropped 7.3 percent to 85.72 euros
and Amsterdam-based Akzo Nobel NV sank 6.7 percent to 32.16
euros.  Berkeley Group Holdings Plc (BKG)  paced advancing shares, surging
4.8 percent to 1,236 pence. The U.K.’s largest homebuilder by
market value said it may reach a goal of doubling pretax profit
two years earlier than it had planned as sales improve. The
company said in May last year that it aimed to double profit
within five years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  