-- 
European Banks Under Assault in Markets That Remind Ackermann of Late 2008

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   A d a m   E w i n g   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-09-06T13:04:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/european-banks-under-assault-in-markets-that-remind-ackermann-of-late-2008.html
Three years after the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., financial shares in Europe are
under assault, the cost of insuring bank debt is at records, and
bankers see worrying parallels to that time.  A Bloomberg index of European financial stocks fell as much
as 2.9 percent to the lowest level since March 2009, while a
measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to each other was at the
highest since April of that same year.  The chief executive officer of  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Josef Ackermann , said yesterday market conditions remind him of late
2008, and urged lawmakers to act to avoid a repeat of the
financial crisis, which spawned the worst global recession since
the Great Depression. Investors drove yields higher on the bonds
of Greece,  Portugal ,  Spain  and  Italy  yesterday on doubts
Europe’s leaders will be able to stop the sovereign debt
contagion.  “Investors are not only asking themselves whether those
responsible can summon the necessary willpower to overcome this
crisis, but increasingly also whether enough time remains and
whether they have the needed resources available,” Ackermann,
63, said at a conference in Frankfurt. “As long as uncertainty
holds whether the agreements can be quickly and fully
implemented, the nervousness on the market will remain.”  Demands led by Finland for collateral for new Greek loans,
deteriorating economic growth in  Europe  and the U.S. and
wavering commitment to austerity packages from euro members such
as Italy risk derailing efforts to contain the crisis.  This “is not just a financial crisis,” UniCredit CEO
Federico Ghizzoni said in Frankfurt today. “For the first time,
the European system is really at stake.”  ‘Political Direction’  The disarray in financial markets will raise pressure on
finance ministers and central bankers from the Group of Seven
nations to take further steps when they meet in Marseille,
 France , on Sept. 9 and 10.  “If there’s not a clear political direction to find a
solution for Europe’s problems, then we will enter a very
difficult market situation,” said Wolfgang Kirsch, head of DZ
Bank AG,  Germany ’s biggest cooperative lender, in an interview
at the  Frankfurt  conference yesterday.  The Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index of
46 stocks dropped 12 percent in the past three sessions, to the
lowest level since March 31, 2009. The Markit iTraxx Financial
Index linked to senior debt of 25 banks and insurers rose as
much as 7 basis points to 277, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.
The difference between the three-month euro interbank offered
rate, or Euribor, and the overnight indexed swap rate, a measure
of banks’ reluctance to lend to each other, was 0.765 percentage
point, the widest gap since April 2009.  ‘Going Lower’  European stocks fell for a third day, following the biggest
two-day drop in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index since March 2009, as
investors speculated that support for bailing out Europe’s
indebted nations may fade.  “We’re likely to keep going lower unless governments step
in, in a big way,” said Lex van Dam, a London-based  fund
manager  at Hampstead Capital LLP, which oversees $500 million.  The collapse of New York-based  Lehman Brothers  froze credit
markets and forced taxpayer-funded bailouts of banks from
Washington and  London  to Berlin. At that time, the concern was
over U.S. mortgage-backed securities. This time, it’s about the
bonds of Europe’s debt-ridden governments.  ‘More Dramatic’ Than 2008  “The situation is much more dramatic than in 2008,”
 Ulrich Schroeder , head of Germany’s state-owned development bank
KfW Group, said at the Frankfurt conference yesterday. Many
countries wouldn’t be in a condition to rescue their lenders in
a similar crisis because of their deficit problems, he said.
“The banks aren’t out of the danger zone.”  Many European banks “obviously” wouldn’t be able to
shoulder writedowns on sovereign debt held in their banking
books based on market values, Ackermann said. Greek two-year
notes traded yesterday at less than 50 percent of face value.  Still, measures taken by the  European Central Bank  have
made it possible for banks to finance their operations even when
other banks and investors have cut off funding, preventing a
credit freeze similar to the one that followed Lehman Brothers’
collapse,  DZ Bank ’s Kirsch said.  The Frankfurt-based ECB provides euro-area banks with
unlimited liquidity in its refinancing operations, and started
buying Italian and Spanish government bonds on Aug. 8 to stem a
market rout.  The difference between the three-month euro interbank
offered rate and the overnight indexed swap rate is still less
than half the peak in October 2008, according to Bloomberg data.  ‘Crucial Moment’  “Europe is at a crucial moment and if we are to survive
this, northern countries like Germany need to step up and
support the weaker members, something they just don’t want to
do,” said  Neil Phillips , a fund manager at BlueBay Asset
Management Plc in London, which oversees about $45 billion.  Collateral demands as a condition of participating in the
next Greek rescue plan have complicated the program’s prospects,
the  Institute of International Finance , a Washington-based
banking group that Ackermann chairs, said in a report yesterday.
This has “visibly reduced” the chances that euro-region
countries would come together to rescue another nation in
distress, the IIF said.  Euro-area governments pledged 109 billion euros ($153
billion) in public money for  Greece  on July 21, accompanied by
50 billion euros through an IIF-coordinated private-investor
debt swap and bond buyback program. Negotiations will continue
today, with a meeting of the Finnish, Dutch and German finance
ministers in Berlin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  