-- 
Leveraged Buyout Loans in Europe Lose Most Since Greece’s Bailout in 2010

-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 
2011-09-05T11:46:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/leveraged-buyout-loans-in-europe-lose-most-since-greece-s-bailout-in-2010.html
Leveraged loans in  Europe  posted
their biggest loss since Greece was first bailed out as the
region’s slowing economy spurred selling of riskier assets.  Loans used to fund leveraged buyouts ended August down 3.1
percent from the end of July, at an average of 88.3 percent of
face value. That’s the biggest monthly drop since May 2010, when
Greece got the first of two bailout packages for 110 billion
euros ($155 billion) and loans dropped 3.8 percent, according to
data compiled by Markit Group Ltd.  Growth in the region slowed to 0.2 percent in the second
quarter from 0.8 percent in the first three months of 2011 as
governments cut spending to contain the spreading deficit
crisis. Three sovereign rescues have failed to shore up the
economy, with some banks in  Greece ,  Portugal  and Ireland relying
on European Central Bank loans to remain solvent.  “August was a rough month in the loan market,” said
Otis Casey, New York-based director and credit analyst at
Markit. “The last time we saw a comparable move investors
similarly flocked to safe haven assets.”  Loans backing KKR & Co. and Permira Advisers LLP’s buyout
of German broadcaster ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG, listed under the
investment vehicle Lavena Holding, led declines, falling
about 25 percent to 62.42 percent of face value, Markit said.
Some of the loans were extended to 2016 on Aug. 3 in exchange
for amendments to covenants and a fee of 10 basis points.  Fat Face Falls  The term loan B for Fat Face Ltd., the U.K. sportswear
company owned by Bridgepoint Capital Ltd., fell 17.8 percent to
55.25 percent of face value. Retailers’ debt slumped as European
 consumer confidence  declined the most since December 2008.  A so-called term loan B is sold mainly to non-bank lenders
such as collateralized loan obligations, bank loan mutual funds
and  hedge funds .  Leveraged loans are used to fund as much as two-third of
the purchase price of private-equity led buyouts. The debt is
taken in the target’s name and typically graded below Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s and
Fitch.  3i Group Plc (III) ’s Dutch retailer Action increased the proposed
interest margins by 25 basis points on 375 million euros of
loans to fund its buyout, a person with direct knowledge of the
deal said last week. Lenders will get 425 basis points more than
the euro interbank offered rate on the six-year portions of the
financing, and a margin of 475 basis points on the seven-year
tranche. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  “Investors became more selective on primary issues as
global markets risk appetite declined, resulting in higher loan
margins and more favorable clauses,” according to an Aug. 25
research note from Henderson Global Investors Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Morris in  London  at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 