-- 
Ex-President Chirac ’Unfit’ to Appear at Trial

-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-09-05T12:49:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/ex-president-chirac-unfit-to-appear-at-trial.html
Jacques Chirac ’s corruption trial
began today with his lawyers asking Paris judges to allow the
former French president to be absent for the proceedings, saying
the 78-year-old is too ill to appear.  He shows “the symptoms of different neurological
illnesses,” his lawyer  Jean Veil  said. The former leader “is no
longer in a state to remember details of events 20 years ago.”  Chirac is accused of misusing Paris city funds to reward
party loyalists with no-show job contracts during his time as
mayor of Paris. He served as mayor of Paris from 1977 until his
election as president in 1995, except for a two-year period when
he was prime minister.  Chirac’s lawyers gave the panel of judges a report by
Olivier Lyon-Caen, head of the neurology unit at La Pitie-
Salpetriere hospital in Paris that finds Chirac suffers from a
neurological condition making him unable to defend himself.
Chirac will appear if asked by the judge, Veil said.  The investigation was delayed by rules shielding sitting
heads of state from investigations for anything short of high
treason. While Paris and Nanterre prosecutors opposed a trial,
investigating judges said one was needed. The City of Paris
dropped its claim after reaching a settlement under which the
former president and the Union for a  Popular Movement , successor
to Chirac’s party, paid 2.2 million euros ($3.1 million) to the
city. Neither admitted guilt and Chirac denies violating any
laws, claiming all contracts were for real city jobs.  If convicted, Chirac faces as long as 10 years in prison
for a charge of embezzlement and as much as a 375,000-euro fine
on one of abuse of trust. He would also be ineligible for future
political posts. Prior, similar cases indicate he is unlikely to
receive any jail time.  Chirac submitted a letter asking for the court to waive his
appearance, saying the trial should continue because it is
“useful for democracy” to see that courts can judge former
heads of state.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 