-- 
Famine Is Declared in Sixth Region of Somalia; 750,000 May Starve to Death

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-09-05T13:03:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/famine-is-declared-in-sixth-region-of-somalia-750-000-may-starve-to-death.html
The  United Nations  declared a famine
in a sixth region of  Somalia , where tens of thousands of people
have died this year and 750,000 more are at risk of starvation.  “There is a continuing deterioration,” UN Humanitarian
Coordinator for Somalia Mark Bowden told reporters in Nairobi
today. “Other areas of the country are falling into the critical
category and in need of assistance, which includes parts of the
north of the country as well.”  Hundreds of people, at least half of them children, are
dying every day in Somalia and the food crisis will probably
persist until at least the end of the year, Grainne Moloney,
chief technical officer of the UN  Food Security and Nutrition
Analysis Unit , said at the same briefing.  Famine has now spread to the southern Bay Region, according
to a statement from the FSNAU and the Famine  Early Warning
Systems Network  handed to reporters today in Nairobi. It joins
Bakool, Lower Shabelle, Middle Shabelle and displaced
communities in Afgoye and Mogadishu, the capital, all hit by
Somalia’s lowest annual food production in 17 years.  The number of people requiring food assistance has
increased to 4 million, or 53 percent of Somalia’s population,
from 3.7 million people in July. Rains expected between October
and December may bring a new threat through the spread of
illnesses such as cholera, and there isn’t enough funding
available to stop an outbreak of disease, Bowden said.  The UN has described the situation in the Horn of  Africa  as
the worst drought in six decades, with Kenya, Ethiopia and
 Djibouti  also affected.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 