-- 
Finland to Forge Collateral Deal IMF Can Accept

-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 
2011-09-05T21:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/finland-to-forge-collateral-deal-imf-can-accept-katainen-says.html
Finland  will find a Greek collateral
model that respects the priority creditor status of the
 International Monetary Fund  and honors existing bondholder
claims, Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  said.  “We have to find a solution that is suitable for everybody,
for other European Union countries, for Finland and for other
creditors,” he said at a press briefing in Helsinki yesterday.  Katainen is struggling to piece together a deal that
satisfies Finnish voter demands for extra assurances their
bailout contributions will be repaid as international opposition
to such arrangements mounts. Europe’s failure to find a solution
puts the “credibility of the euro area and each of its member
states at stake,” European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy 
said, after a meeting with Katainen in the Finnish capital
yesterday.  “The task is not easy, but without solving all the
challenges, we can’t achieve the final outcome,” Katainen said.
“So now we’re working.”  The deadlock over AAA rated Finland’s insistence it get
collateral for new Greek loans threatens to delay rescue
measures in the euro region, where efforts to contain the debt
crisis are unraveling on multiple fronts. In Greece, the so-
called Troika of the IMF, the European Commission and the
 European Central Bank  have delayed their next economic review as
the government in  Athens  predicts a deeper recession. In  Italy ,
the euro region’s third-largest economy, bond yields have soared
as Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi’s resolve on austerity fades.  Cash Plan Dropped  Finland, which was forced to abandon an earlier bilateral
arrangement with  Greece  that gave the Nordic country cash
collateral, must now find a deal that protects the IMF’s
priority creditor status. The Washington D.C.-based fund, which
has provided a third of the bailout loans given to Europe so far,
would oppose any deal that overlooks its rights, four people
with direct knowledge of the matter said last week.  The clause on collateral, enshrined in the July 21
decisions by EU leaders, sparked a torrent of criticism after it
was unveiled on Aug. 16. Austrian Finance Minister Maria Fekter
warned Finland’s deal threatened to “blow up” the region’s
rescue mechanism, while Michael Meister, senior finance
spokesman for German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Christian
Democrats, said such accords would be “fatal” for the bailout.
Any Finnish accord needs to be approved by all euro members.  Finland’s Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen, who has said
the northernmost euro member won’t back down on its demand,
meets today in Berlin with her German and Dutch counterparts,
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  and Jan Kees de Jager.  ‘Greatly Complicated’  The collateral demands have “greatly complicated” the
Greek rescue plan prospects by making it more difficult for
European parliaments to approve the rescue and have “increased
its implementation risk,” the Institute of International
Finance said yesterday.  EU countries must work together solve the collateral
dispute “as a matter of priority,” because the measures are
included in the July 21 accords,  Van Rompuy  said. “It is a
common text, a common agreement, and we have to implement all
the decisions we took,” he said. “Finland has specific
sensitivities, but we have a common duty to find solutions to
all the problems raised by the 17 countries.”  Katainen, who leads a six-party coalition, is under
pressure from voters to deliver a collateral accord, without
which his government might collapse, according to Timo Tyrvaeinen, chief economist at Aktia Oyj.  Finland’s anti-bailout party, which calls itself “The
Finns” after changing its name on Aug. 22 from “The True
Finns,” last month polled as the country’s most popular,
according to broadcaster YLE. The party saw its backing surge
fourfold in the April election, making it parliament’s third-
biggest. The party’s leader  Timo Soini  has railed against the
costs of funding bailouts and rejects  Europe ’s ambition of
preventing a Greek default.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpojanpalo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net . 