-- 
Fonciere des Regions Scraps Offer for Fonciere Paris France

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-09-05T15:57:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/fonciere-des-regions-scraps-offer-to-buy-the-rest-of-fonciere-paris-france.html
Fonciere des Regions (FDR)  SA, a French
real estate investment trust, abandoned its offer for Fonciere
Paris France SA, citing a share-price slide for distorting the
bid terms.  In July, FDR agreed to swap shares and debt with four sets
of investors to gain a 37 percent stake in the smaller REIT. FDR
offered to exchange shares for the remaining Fonciere Paris
France stock, convertible bonds and warrants. The offer valued
Fonciere Paris at about 440 million euros ($621 million),
excluding debt.  FDR shares have declined about 21 percent since July 26,
the day before it announced its offer for Fonciere Paris France,
as concern that economic growth in  Europe  will falter and the
euro region’s sovereign debt crisis roiled stock markets.
 Fonciere Paris France (FPF)  shares have fallen by 17 percent.  The slide affected the exchange ratios in FDR’s share offer
for Fonciere Paris France’s warrants and convertible bonds,
making it “less attractive” said Laetitia d’Empremesnil, an
analyst at Tradition Securities & Futures in Paris. She has a
“hold” rating on FDR shares.  FDR declined 1.96 euros, or 3.4 percent, to 55.49 euros in
Paris trading. Fonciere Paris France advanced 69 cents to 91.80
euros a share, giving the company a market value of 160 million
euros.  FDR offered 13 of its shares for eight Fonciere Paris
France shares. Bonds convertible into Fonciere Paris France
shares were exchangeable into shares or into FDR’s convertible
bonds. Holders of Fonciere Paris France warrants were to convert
207 of them into eight FDR shares.  The agreement to buy the 37 percent stake in Fonciere Paris
France has also been scrapped, the company said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in  London  at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 