-- 
Forint Weakens for Fifth Day Against Swiss Franc; Stocks Decline

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-09-05T15:50:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/forint-weakens-for-third-day-mol-leads-hungarian-stocks-lower.html
The forint weakened for a fifth day
against the Swiss franc and Hungarian stocks fell on concern a
weaker currency may signal higher losses from foreign-currency
loans for the country’s lenders.  Hungary ’s currency slid 2.3 percent to 251.758 per Swiss
franc, extending losses in the last five days to 8.9 percent.
The forint depreciated 1.1 percent to 278.35 per euro. The
benchmark BUX index of shares lost 3 percent to 17,679.52 by the
5 p.m. close in Budapest. OTP Bank Nyrt., the country’s biggest
lender, fell for a fifth day, down 1.5 percent to 3,940 forint.  “Concerns have significantly grown in the market” because
of the U.S. jobs data and  Europe ’s debt crisis, Levente Blaho
and Akos Herczenik, analysts at Raiffeisen Bank International AG
in Budapest wrote in a research report today. “OTP may remain
under pressure because of global sentiment and the appreciation
of the  Swiss franc .”  The weaker forint hurts homeowners who bought property with
foreign-currency loans because they pay more in local currency.
Sixty-four percent of Hungarian household mortgages and 61
percent of Hungarian local council debt are denominated in
foreign currencies, most of them in the franc, according to
central bank data. Central bank President Andras Simor has asked
to meet with Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  to discuss ways to
reduce the burden of foreign-currency borrowers, the bank said
today.  German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s party lost weekend
elections in her home state, stoking concern opposition is
growing to bailouts for debt-saddled European nations. The U.S.
filed 17 lawsuits against banks on Sept. 2 to recover $196
billion spent on mortgage-backed securities bought by  Fannie Mae 
and  Freddie Mac . Citigroup Inc. cut its 2011 global economic
growth forecast today to 3.1 percent from 3.7 percent. U.S.
markets are closed today for the Labor Day holiday.  Mol Nyrt., Hungary’s biggest refiner, slid 5.6 percent to
16,150 forint and Gedeon Richter Nyrt., the largest drugmaker,
fell 2.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest 
 agergely@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  