-- 
French Farm’s Yogurts, Sausages Impress Prime Minister Fillon

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-05T09:44:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/french-farm-s-yogurts-sausages-impress-prime-minister-fillon.html
Gilbert Simoen, the 71-year-old co-
founder of French farm collective  GAEC de l’Etoile  west of
Paris, says all he needs from Prime Minister  Francois Fillon  is
to be spared red tape.  L’Etoile makes yogurts, pork sausages and other foods on-
farm, bringing in 37 percent of its 1.78 million euros ($2.5
million) in sales last year. Higher margins on food mean the
collective’s four partners are better off than farmers who only
sell raw milk or pigs, Simoen said at the Hotel Neveu farm
outside Mortagne-au-Perche during a Sept. 1 visit by Fillon and
Agriculture Minister Bruno Le Maire.  “I’ve been very impressed by the business,” Fillon said
after touring the farm’s dairy-making unit, cow-milking pit and
on-site store. “Here I’ve seen the proof that there is a
future for agriculture if you have ambition and common sense.”  GAEC de l’Etoile in 1988 began making cream and cottage
cheese as Simoen and his three partners sought to boost
profits. The strategy has allowed L’Etoile to shrug off a
crisis that in 2009 led farmers to dump milk in the streets and
cereal growers to block the Champs-Elysees avenue in Paris with
burning straw and tires.  “We’re not really affected by the crisis,” Simoen said.
“What I want from the minister is that he doesn’t send us too
much administrative fuss.”  French Protests  French farmers in 2009 protested that their prices didn’t
cover production costs. Le Maire said the agriculture industry
was undergoing an “unprecedented crisis” affecting dairy
farmers, wine producers and livestock farmers as well as growers
of fruits and vegetables.  Le Maire has called on French farmers to better organize
themselves in the face of food processors and retailers,
including through developing local sales networks, value-added
products and long-term supply contracts.  France  is the European Union’s largest farm producer, with
agricultural output worth 64.7 billion euros in 2010, 19 percent
of the bloc’s total, according to EU statistics agency Eurostat.  L’Etoile processes 85 percent to 90 percent of its milk
output. The collective’s weekly production includes 8,000 pots
of yogurt, 300 kilograms (661 pounds) of butter as well as the
meat products from the eight pigs it slaughters every week.  Last year, L’Etoile sold 34 percent of its food products
directly on the farm or at markets, for sales of 277,000 euros.
Part of the dairy production is sold via regional branches of
supermarket chains including E. Leclerc and Intermarche,
bringing in 154,000 euros last year, while the collective also
sells via its online store.  ‘Progressive Reward’  “By selling our own food products we capture some of the
added value,” said co-founder Eric Simoen, 69. “It has been a
progressive reward, it started out slowly. At the start we had
to struggle to obtain contracts.”  The three Simoen brothers who founded the cooperative in
1969 all retired between 2003 and 2005, and L’Etoile is now
owned by Marc, Xavier and David Simoen and Patrick Quesnel.  Most of the collective’s pigs are still sold as live
animals, even as the number processed on-farm has risen since
L’Etoile started slaughtering its own hogs in 2003, Gilbert
Simoen said. Live pigs made up 26 percent of last year’s sales.  The profit on a pig processed on-farm is 20 percent to 30
percent higher than selling the live animal, according to
Gilbert Simoen. L’Etoile feeds its hogs mainly with grain
produced on its farms, meaning the cooperative doesn’t need to
buy expensive grains, he said.  “There are industries like pork, there the crisis is
evident,” the elder Simoen said. “The slaughterhouses and
supermarkets sell meat at the price they determine and the
producer has no say.”  L’Etoile is less affected by the price that supermarkets
pay for pork than breeders who have to buy their feed, Simoen
said. The target is to fully feed the collective’s pigs with
feed produced on-farm, he said.  “We’re an exception,” Gilbert Simoen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  