-- 
Freud’s Love Letters Reveal Jealous Fits, Cocaine Experiments

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-09-05T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/freud-s-love-letters-reveal-jealous-fits-cocaine-experiments-interview.html
Sigmund Freud  and his fiancee Martha
Bernays exchanged more than 1,500 letters during their secret,
four-year engagement. They fought, reconciled, described dreams,
shared hopes and even compared cocaine experiences by post.  For many years, no-one outside the family knew the letters
had survived. Bernays, who lived until 1951, almost destroyed
them after her husband died because they were so private and
intimate. Her daughters persuaded her not to. Germany’s  S.
Fischer Verlag  is publishing them in full for the first time, in
five volumes over five years. The first, covering the period
from June 1882 to July 1883, was published this year.  The intensive correspondence reveals a stormy relationship
and a jealous, insecure and domineering Freud. Ilse Grubrich-
Simitis, a psychoanalyst and Freud expert, is one of its three
editors and wrote the introduction. We speak in her sparsely
furnished practice in  Frankfurt ’s chic Westend district, seated
on two chairs next to an empty couch.  Picturing Freud on the couch, I ask whether we can analyze
the founder of psychoanalysis from the letters.  “This is the most intimate and the most revealing of
Freud’s correspondences, so it is very tempting,” says
Grubrich-Simitis, trim and elegant with glasses and gray hair.
“But you have to remember that he was very young -- he was 26
when it started and 30 when it ended. His stormy, precarious
psychic state at the time had a lot to do with his uncertain
social status.”  Daily Letters  The two kept their engagement from their families because
Freud was not yet established and had no stable income. The
Bernays family moved away from Vienna to Wandsbek, near Hamburg,
weeks after the engagement. The pair only saw each other during
Freud’s brief visits. They wrote almost every day when apart.  “They were separated too early,” Grubrich-Simitis says.
“They couldn’t really develop a basis for trust in direct
personal contact. She was much more stable and could handle it.
For him, it was a huge challenge.”  It is the first time that Bernays’s letters have been
published. She comes across as lively and intelligent with humor
and common sense. Freud discussed his work with her and expected
her to keep up.  “Her role will now be completely re-evaluated,” says
Grubrich-Simitis. “She was an intellectual partner for Freud in
these years -- this was not known beforehand. At the beginning,
she was very shy and doubted her value. We see her self-
confidence increasing through the course of the
correspondence.”  Cocaine by Post  In later letters, Freud shared his findings about cocaine
with Martha, Grubrich-Simitis says. He believed cocaine might
lead to an important medical discovery and end his financial
difficulties. He even sent his fiancee some by post.  “Martha tried it for a while,” says Grubrich-Simitis.
“She thought it was great. She occasionally asked for more.”  Freud used cocaine “frivolously,” she says. “He took it
to overcome fears and shyness and for energy before long walks,
or when he was feeling down.”  The young neuroscientist was jealous of almost everyone in
Martha’s immediate circle -- of her admirers, yet also of her
brother and her mother. He wanted to shape Martha to suit him --
in one letter, he asked: “Be mine in the way that I imagine
it.” He too grew up in the four years, Grubrich-Simitis says.  “He understood very quickly how important she was for his
stability, as a connection to the real world,” she says. “He
learned over the course of the exchange that it was impossible
to shape her, and that it wouldn’t be good.”  Sigmund and Martha went on to have six children. So was it
a happy marriage? Grubrich-Simitis says there is “not a shred
of evidence” to support claims made in recent years that Freud
later had an affair with Martha’s younger sister, Minna.  “I can’t say whether they were happy until the end,”
Grubrich-Simitis shrugs. “But he must certainly often have been
an absent husband since he was in his practice all day, and
wrote in the evenings. Whether that was always fun for her, I
don’t know, but I doubt it.”  “ Die Brautbriefe, Band 1 ” is published by S. Fischer (628
pages, 48 euros in  Germany .) There are so far no plans to
publish the letters in full in English translation.  (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 