-- 
Gasoline Tracks European Oil With WTI Collapse: Chart of the Day

-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 
2011-09-05T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/gasoline-tracks-european-oil-with-wti-collapse-chart-of-the-day.html
Gasoline is rising along with
European  Brent crude  this year as U.S. benchmark West Texas
Intermediate priced in the Midwest failed to reflect tighter
global supply, according to an analyst at Baker & O’Brien Inc.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows U.S. pump prices tracking
European oil this year. Both are up 19 percent, while WTI is
down 5 percent. WTI fell to a record $26.21 a barrel below Brent
Aug. 19 as supply entering Cushing, Oklahoma, the U.S. crude
trading hub, exceeds the pipeline capacity to ship oil out of
the region.  “When that difference first started up, it was more WTI
collapsing than Brent getting bid up,” said Kevin Waguespack, a
vice president at Baker & O’Brien, an energy consulting firm in
Houston.  Pump prices are based on New York-delivered gasoline
futures. Refiners on the U.S. East Coast primarily process
imported oil that’s priced relative to Brent. Sunoco Inc. and
ConocoPhillips imported 19.2 million barrels of crude from West
Africa and  Europe  in June to their refineries in Pennsylvania
and  New Jersey , according to the Energy Department.  Shipping oil by rail or truck is more expensive than by
pipeline, which caused WTI’s discount to increase. Companies are
building storage tanks at the Cushing hub, and  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) 
is awaiting approval of the Keystone XL line that will bring oil
from  Canada  through the Midwest and on to the  Gulf Coast , which
may narrow the gap.  “WTI has become ‘landlocked’ in Cushing and no longer
represents the marginal price of crude oil for U.S. Gulf Coast
and East Coast refineries, much less the world,” Waguespack
said. The price discrepancy between the U.S. and Europe
benchmarks “might be a couple years,” Waguespack said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in New York at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  