-- 
Gazprom Starts Filling Nord Stream Gas Pipeline

-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 
2011-09-05T23:01:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/gazprom-skirting-ukraine-eases-winter-shortage-threat-as-baltic-pipe-opens.html
OAO Gazprom will today start pumping
natural gas into a $10 billion subsea pipeline from Russia
to Germany, bypassing Ukraine, where disputes halted supplies to
European customers twice since 2006.  The Nord Stream pipeline runs under the Baltic Sea and will
be able to carry enough gas to supply 26 million European homes
when it's fully up and running next year. It’s the first direct
link between western Europe and Russia, which supplies about
25 percent of the European Union's gas.  Clashes between Ukraine and Russia over gas prices and
debts disrupted shipments to Europe and led Gazprom to seek
alternative routes. Nord Stream may weaken Ukraine’s hand in
negotiating gas supply deals with Russia. Ukraine, which carries 
80 percent of Russian gas to the EU through Soviet-era pipes, 
is seeking to revise its long-term contract for fuel imports.  Nord Stream  “will be especially important” if existing
agreements between Russia and Ukraine “break down this winter
over the pricing issue, thus leading to a new dispute,” said
Katja Yafimava, a research fellow at the Oxford Institute for
Energy Studies.  Gazprom and its partners, BASF SE’s Wintershall AG unit,
E.ON Ruhrgas AG, Nederlandse Gasunie NV and GDF Suez SA, are
building the pipeline in stages. The first line will have a
capacity of 27.5 billion cubic meters a year, doubling to 55
billion cubic meters when the second is ready in 2012.  Transit States  “We are slowly and surely turning away from the dictate of
transit states,” Prime Minister Vladimir Putin said yesterday
as he announced that Russia’s gas-export monopoly would start
filling the Nord Stream link with gas. The pipeline will begin 
commercial operations next month.  European winter gas prices, led by the U.K.’s National 
Balancing Point, the continent’s largest single market for the 
fuel, advanced to near three-year highs this year amid
heightened concerns about supply security and rising import
dependency as North Sea production dwindles.  Gas for delivery in Britain during the six-month heating
season from October reached a high of 78.25 pence a therm on
Aug. 31, the highest since October 2008. It closed at 73.60
pence at yesterday up 17 percent this year. That’s equal to
$11.86 a million British thermal units.  Diverted Supplies  Gazprom may divert as much as 20 billion cubic meters that
is currently shipped through Ukraine through Nord Stream, Chief
Executive Officer Alexei Miller said in May, according to state
television Rossiya 24. Sergei Kupriyanov, a spokesman for
Gazprom, declined to comment on expected volumes yesterday.  Ukraine’s state-run energy company NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy,
which pumps about 100 billion cubic meters of gas a year to
Europe, has an annual transit capacity of 142 billion cubic
meters.  “Reduction in transit volumes will cause Ukraine to lose
about $550 million in revenues from transit next year,” said
Denis Sakva, an energy analyst at Dragon Capital, a Kiev-based
investment bank.  Nord Stream is nearing completion as Ukraine, the biggest
buyer of Russian gas, seeks lower gas purchases from Gazprom and
revisions to a pricing formula. Gazprom’s Chief Executive
Officer Alexei Miller had offered to revise the contract if
Naftogaz agreed to merge with his company. That proposal was
rejected by Ukraine.  The eastern European country may have to turn to an
international court “as a last resort” in order to revise gas
supply contracts, President Viktor Yanukovych said on Sept. 3,
according to his  website .  From Germany, Nord Stream’s first line will be connected to
the OPAL system that connects the Czech Republic. The second
line will connect to the NEL onshore pipeline and carry gas to
western Germany and other European countries.  Gazprom has contracted about 22 billion cubic meters to
supply customers including EON AG and  GDF Suez (GSZ)  via Nord Stream
in the coming years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  