-- 
GE Beating S&P Is Profit Goal as Immelt Decade Skirts Abyss

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-09-06T20:20:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/ge-beating-s-p-through-2013-sets-profit-goal-as-immelt-decade-skirts-abyss.html
Jeffrey Immelt , saying he holds few
regrets after leading  General Electric Co. (GE)  in 10 years bracketed
by terrorism and a nuclear meltdown, predicts a payoff through
2013 as reinvigorated industrial units expand globally.  “Through all the volatility, we still focused on some big
things and, I think, got them right,” Immelt said of a tenure
as chairman and chief executive officer begun four days before
the Sept. 11 attacks. A key goal in the next two years is profit
growth that beats the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, he said in an
interview. “We feel like we can deliver for investors.”  Those investors saw the stock slide 60 percent to less than
$16, the first dividend cut since 1938 and the loss of a AAA
credit rating amid what Immelt calls “black-swan events” that
included two recessions. The fourth-longest serving CEO among
companies in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average , he reshaped GE by
focusing on energy, health care and transportation while selling
divisions that once created 40 percent of sales. Immelt and
directors say the result is a  GE with less risk , able to thrive
in emerging markets and at home.  As Immelt enters his second decade as boss, shareholders
from  Warren Buffett , who invested $3 billion in 2008, to the
individuals who own 46 percent of GE must decide if a world
economy roiled by Middle East uprisings and sovereign-debt
crises will produce the growth the Fairfield, Connecticut-based
company needs to prosper.  ‘Incredible Opportunity’  “In my personal opinion, at $16, it’s an incredible
opportunity, especially if you believe now is a good time to
invest,” said Lawrence D. Fink, the CEO of BlackRock Inc. and
GE’s third-biggest shareholder. “If you think global GDP is
going to collapse, GE, along with most companies, will not fare
well in that. But GE is very well-positioned.”  Immelt sold some of the businesses, including plastics,
insurance and the NBCU media unit, that he inherited from  Jack Welch , the predecessor he calls “an enormously famous guy who
was a great CEO.” Immelt pared the  GE Capital  finance arm as a
global financial crisis escalated in 2008 and 2009.  He pushed an expansion that now brings about 60 percent of
sales from overseas, up from 35 percent when he started. In the
past five years, he tripled  research and development spending  to
6 percent of non-finance revenue.  In the process, Immelt acquired about $115 billion in
assets and received $97 billion from those he sold -- the most
combined activity of any public company, data compiled by
Bloomberg shows. GE now holds $91 billion in cash on its balance
sheet, including more than $77 billion at GE Capital as the
company refinances long-term debt.  ‘Seduced’ by Finance  Investors including  Peter Sorrentino  question whether those
decisions took too long, such as in selling NBCU or targeting GE
Capital to produce about a third of profit, down from about half
in 2006. While the finance arm spurred earnings growth, it also
exposed GE to market risks.  “His mistake was that he got seduced by GE Capital,” said
Sorrentino, a senior portfolio manager in Cincinnati at
Huntington Asset Advisors, which held about 2 million GE shares
as of June. “It was like crack. They couldn’t live without
it.”  Immelt, in the Aug. 30 interview, says that while he has
“no regrets” about the businesses he jettisoned, he did let GE
Capital get too big. “We didn’t test it hard enough, we didn’t
probe it hard enough,” he said. “You don’t do a job like this
for 10 years without making mistakes.”  Grudging Buyer  Sorrentino counts himself as a grudging buyer of GE, which
slid 51 cents, or 3.2 percent, to $15.25 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading as U.S. stocks fell. That’s
down from $39.66 the day Immelt took charge. GE’s 60 percent
drop through Sept. 2 compares with an 8.1 percent gain in the
 S&P 500  in that time.  “It pains me, but there are parts of the business they are
the world’s best at,” Sorrentino said. A stock that was too
lofty late in the Welch era at 59 times earnings is now
undervalued, he said. GE’s PE ratio was 12.2 as of Sept. 2.  Buffett bet  GE had value at $22.25 a share, a price the
stock hasn’t touched again since he invested $3 billion in
October 2008 to show confidence in GE as global credit markets
tightened. GE agreed to pay Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. a
10 percent dividend on the preferred shares he bought and is
scheduled to buy them back next month. Buffett, 81, didn’t
respond to a request for comment.  The stock’s nadir was during the global financial crisis on
March 4, 2009, when GE sank to $5.73 in intraday trading and the
company was “staring into the abyss,” said  Deane Dray , a New
York-based analyst with Citigroup Inc. who rates GE a “buy.”  ‘Feast of the Bears’  “There was a feast of the bears circling around saying
that this was the next  Lehman Brothers ,” Dray said.  That wasn’t the case last month, when markets roiled on
concern about U.S. and European debt burdens. The  Standard &
Poor’s  500 index alternated declines and gains of more than 4
percent for four straight days. This time, while GE declined
along with the markets, the feasting bears were kept at bay.  “We’ve raised a massive cash balance,” Chief Financial
Officer Keith Sherin said in an interview. “Everyone looks at
it and says why are you carrying so much cash? Well, I didn’t
lose one minute of sleep during August.”  Short-sale bets against GE amounted to 0.5 percent of its
shares as of Aug. 26, putting the stock in the bottom quintile
in the S&P 500 and below the 3 percent average in the index,
according to  Data Explorers , a New York-based research firm.  Boardroom View  While GE’s board is always aware of the share price, that
can’t be the main concern, Ralph Larsen, its presiding director
and former CEO of Johnson & Johnson, said in an interview. “You
make bad decisions that way,” he said.  “As big and sturdy as GE is, we can’t take anything for
granted,” Larsen said. “There is no such thing as a company
that is too big to fail in today’s world.”  GE executives point to other benefits over the decade: $87
billion in dividends even with the cut, and about $161 billion
in earnings, trailing only Exxon Mobil Corp. and Royal Dutch
Shell Plc. The industrial businesses have a $189 billion backlog
of equipment and service orders.  The accomplishments equate to changing the tires on a
moving car, said Shelly Lazarus, the first director appointed
after Immelt was given the nod to succeed Welch.  “I don’t think he gets enough credit for the amount of
change that he brought about and yet at the same time, keeping
the culture, keeping the values,” said Lazarus, chairman of
Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide and head of GE’s new risk committee.  GE Capital  GE Capital meanwhile is selling or winding down about $80
billion in assets and will shift those resources to areas it’s
keeping, such as aircraft leasing, energy financing and middle-
market lending. The shrinking is a year ahead of schedule.
Investors tend to reward industrial companies with higher PE
ratios than finance firms.  “What investors mainly want is to grow the industrial
earnings and have GE Capital be a much lesser portion,” said
Robert Spremulli, a managing director and equity analyst at
TIAA-CREF, which owns more than 58 million GE shares.  GE Capital isn’t planning a move such as cleaving off a
minority stake and the units it has kept, save real estate, are
performing at 2007 levels, Michael Neal, the finance arm’s chief
executive, said in an interview.  “We just need real estate to come back around, and it
will,” he said.  Global Expansion  GE also is deep into its global expansion. The company in
January transferred Vice Chairman John Rice to  Hong Kong  to
oversee markets like  China ,  India , the  Middle East  and  Brazil 
and is assigning some of its fastest-rising executives to the
initiative. Rice says GE products mesh with what developing
nations need to meet basic needs, one of the issues he says
contributes to upheaval in North Africa and the Middle East.  “People just didn’t feel like their lives were getting
better,” Rice said in an interview. “How many hours in a day
are the lights on? Is there clean water?”  While the expansion includes building factories both
overseas and at home, Immelt says GE exports from the U.S. may
triple this year from $7 billion in 2001. He says that has
helped maintain jobs as sales of large gas turbines at home
dropped from more than 200 when he started to about 3 this year.  “If we hadn’t globalized the company, that’s tens of
thousands of jobs that would be lost in the  United States , and a
horrible company in between,” Immelt said. GE has announced
8,000 U.S. jobs since 2009, with 7,000 in manufacturing.
Worldwide employment was 287,000 last year, down from 310,000 in
2001. The company plans to hire 15,000 this year including
replacements for workers who left.  Catching Flak  Immelt was criticized by bloggers and some members of
Congress from both parties for expanding overseas while agreeing
to lead a new panel on jobs and competitiveness for President
 Barack Obama . Deciding to serve was the right call, said James W. McNerney, Immelt’s friend, one-time rival for GE’s top job,
and now customer as the CEO of  Boeing Co. (BA)   “You know you’re going to catch some of this flak,” said
McNerney, who himself agreed to lead Obama’s export council.
“But you do it anyway, because constructive engagement is just
a higher order than sitting on the sidelines carping.”  Immelt, a Republican, says he has no higher political
ambitions. “I want to generate a lot of earnings and cash in
this company and I want investors to benefit,” he said.  GE may earn $1.39 a share this year and $1.62 in 2012,
based on average estimates of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  CEO Tenure  If history is a guide, Immelt may have 5 to 10 years left
to achieve his goals. The average CEO tenure at GE is about 14
years -- more than twice the average for S&P 500 companies in
2010, according to executive consulting firm SpencerStuart.
Welch, who declined to be interviewed, served two decades.  While emergency plans are in place, the succession process
is years from naming final candidates to replace Immelt, said
Susan Peters, who runs GE’s executive development programs.  Immelt, whose $3.3 million salary is unchanged since 2005
and whose $4 million bonus last year was his first since 2007,
works without a contract and said he remains “paranoid every
day.” He declined to discuss GE’s deliberations on succession.  “I’ve seen more than most CEOs are probably going to see
in their lifetimes,” Immelt said. “If something happened to me
tonight, I would look at GE in 2011 in better shape than where I
thought we were in 2001.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at 
 kmiller@bloomberg.net  