-- 
Germany to Seek Buyer for Daimler’s EADS Stake

-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 
2011-09-05T11:44:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/germany-set-to-begin-search-for-buyer-of-daimler-stake-in-eads.html
The German government will begin
searching in the coming weeks for private investors to buy 7.5
percent of  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s shares in European Aeronautic, Defence &
Space Co., an Economy Ministry spokesman said.  “The involved parties within the government and at Daimler
have agreed on this,” the spokesman said in an e-mail today,
denying a  Financial Times  report that  Germany  plans for state-
owned lender  KfW Group  to buy the shares.  Under the agreement that created EADS, investors from
 France  and Germany must hold balanced  voting rights , with each
side controlling 21 percent. Daimler directly owns 15 percent,
and manages another 7.5 percent held by a group of public and
private financial institutions, including Deutsche Bank AG and
the KfW. French publisher  Lagardere SCA (MMB)  owns 7.5 percent and has
management control over the French government’s 15 percent.  “I expect investment banks are working hard to find models
that uphold the political and the commercial criteria we seek,”
Klaus Breil, a Free Democratic lawmaker in Chancellor Angela
Merkel’s coalition, said in an interview. “Several models are
conceivable, including a mix of strategic investors, an expanded
free float and the KfW.”  Merkel’s coalition is under pressure to find a solution for
the German interest in EADS as Daimler seeks to reduce its role
in the plane maker. The FT said the KfW would pay about 2.5
billion euros ($3.53 billion) for the stock.  “Our official position has always been that there needs to
be a discussion on the long-term shareholding arrangements,”
Daimler spokesman Florian Martens said. “But we’re willing, and
intend, to head the industrial leadership on the German side.”  KfW share purchases are viewed financially as temporary
allocations of public money and do not appear on the federal
government’s budget accounts. At the same time, the sovereign
debt crisis and Germany’s constitutional “debt brake” mean
Germany must tame growth in spending.  The Free Democrat-run Economy Ministry in 2009, citing its
opposition to subsidies, rejected a request for aid from  General
Motors Co. (GM)  for its ailing Opel unit in Germany.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net 
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at  at
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  