-- 
German Aid Workers’ Bodies Found in Mountains North of Kabul

-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 
2011-09-05T12:38:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/german-aid-workers-bodies-found-in-mountains-north-of-kabul-1-.html
The bodies of two German aid workers
missing in  Afghanistan  since Aug. 19 were found in the Hindu
Kush mountains north of the capital Kabul, an Afghan provincial
governor said.  “The bodies were found about three kilometers south of the
Salang Pass, buried under a big stone on the mountainside,”
Abdul Basir Salangi, the governor of Parwan province, said by
telephone. The men, who had gone hiking in the mountains, were
beaten and robbed, he said.  Salangi said the Germans worked for  GTZ , the German
government’s international development agency. The agency, which
has been merged into the  Gesellschaft fur Internationale
Zusammenarbeit GmbH , or Organization for International
Cooperation, declined to comment on the report, spokesman Hans
Stehling said by telephone from its headquarters in Eschborn,
 Germany .  The German government is investigating the report, Foreign
Ministry spokesman Andreas Peschke told reporters in Berlin.  “The Germans went hiking south of Salang,” a pass 2,700
meters (8,859 feet) high in the Hindu Kush, about 120 kilometers
north of Kabul, Salangi said. “They told their driver to wait
for them, and when they didn’t return, he called the police and
informed us,” triggering a search by security forces, he said.  The men disappeared a year after gunmen killed 10 medical
workers of the Kabul-based International Assistance Mission
about 115 kilometers to the northeast. While a Taliban spokesman
claimed responsibility for that attack, a second group did as
well, and Afghanistan’s northeast is not a Taliban stronghold.  The Germans’ bodies showed signs of having been beaten,
“and their pockets were turned inside out and their clothes
were partly cut off,” Salangi said. “We suspect that some
nomads may have done this because they are the only people who
live in that area.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  