-- 
Bund Yield Declines to a Record Low as Stocks Slide; Italian Bonds Tumble

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-09-05T16:52:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/german-bund-yield-falls-to-record-low-as-stock-slide-spurs-safety-demand.html
Germany ’s bunds advanced, with two-
and 10-year yields dropping to record lows, as tumbling bank
stocks drove down equity indexes and boosted demand for the euro
region’s safest assets.  Italy’s 10-year bonds fell for an 11th day, a record for
the euro era, and two-year Italian notes yielded above 4 percent
for the first time in almost a month an speculation a lack of
will to implement fiscal reforms may lead to rating downgrades.
Bunds gained for a third day after  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s
party was defeated in her home state, stirring speculation
she’ll be less engaged in stemming the debt crisis amid voter
anger. Greek two-year yields surpassed 50 percent.  “The underlying theme in the market is a lack of
confidence, both in the real economy and the financial sector,”
said  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income strategist at Credit
Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in London. “That’s what’s
keeping yields of safe assets such as German bonds and
Treasuries low.”  Ten-year bund yields fell 16 basis points to 1.85 percent
as of 5:15 p.m. in London, after earlier declining to an all-
time low 1.844 percent. The 2.25 percent security due in
September 2021 rose 1.470, or 14.70 euros per 1,000-euro
($1,413) face amount, to 103.640. Two-year yields slid nine
basis points to 0.43 percent, after dropping to 0.42 percent.  The yield on the Greek two-year note rose above its price
for the first time, reaching 50.38 percent as the price dropped
to 49.485 percent of face value, according to Bloomberg data.  Default Swaps  The cost of insuring against default on European sovereign
debt surged to record highs on concern the region’s debt crisis
is worsening.  Credit-default swaps on  Greece  soared 182 basis points to
2,532, according to CMA. Contracts on Italy jumped 44 basis
points to a record 446.5,  Portugal  climbed 46 to 1,026 and  Spain 
rose 28 to 420, while Germany increased 5 to 84 and  France  was
up 14.5 at an all-time high of 186.  Bunds also rallied as traders added to bets the  European
Central Bank  will cut its main  interest rate  in the next 12
months. A Credit Suisse Group AG index shows traders are betting
the ECB will lower its refinancing rate, currently 1.5 percent,
by 33 basis points. As recently as Aug. 1, traders predicted an
increase of 25 basis points.  The result in the state of Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania,
where Merkel’s election district is located, means her national
coalition has been defeated or lost votes in all six German
state elections this year as voters resist her policy of putting
more taxpayer money on the line for euro-area bailouts.  ‘Bad for the Crisis’  “Merkel’s defeat should support demand for German bonds
because it’s going to be bad for the crisis,”  Credit Agricole ’s
Chatwell said. “If she shifts her focus from the crisis to
domestic issues, the crisis will be prolonged. The solution for
the crisis depends a great deal on Germany.”  Bunds surged last week, with the 10-year bund yield
dropping 15 basis points as data showed U.S. job growth stalled.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell for a second day, losing
4.1 percent, and the MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid 2.7 percent.  European shares declined even after a report showed retail
sales in the 17-nation region unexpectedly increased in August.
Sales climbed 0.2 percent from June, when they rose 0.7 percent,
the European Union statistics office said. Economists forecast
them to stall, according to a Bloomberg News survey. Sales
declined 0.2 percent from a year earlier.  Italian Bonds  Italian bonds fell even as the ECB bought the nation’s
securities, according to three people with knowledge of the
transactions. The ECB was buying small amounts, said one of the
people, who asked not to be identified because the deals are
confidential. A spokesman for the Frankfurt-based central bank
declined to comment.  ECB Governing Council member  Mario Draghi , who will become
President on Nov. 1, said the central bank’s program of
purchasing bonds shouldn’t be taken for granted.  “It cannot be used to circumvent the fundamental principle
of budgetary discipline,” Draghi said in Paris, adding that the
program is “temporary.”  Italian 10-year yields climbed 29 basis points to 5.57
percent, the highest since Aug. 8, when the ECB began buying the
debt to contain borrowing costs. The difference in yield, or
spread, between 10-year Italian and German bonds expanded to as
wide as 360 basis points, also the most since Aug. 8. Two-year
yields rose above 4 percent for the first time since Aug. 8.  At current yields, the market may not have fully priced in
the possibility that  Italy ’s credit ratings may be cut by more
than one level, according to Ciaran O’Hagan, head of European
interest-rate strategy at Societe Generale SA in Paris.  Berlusconi  “Downgrades of Italy by all three agencies look probable,
given recent developments,” O’Hagan wrote in a note to clients.
“A two-notch cut, with a review for further downgrade, is not
priced,” he said.  Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  on Aug. 29 agreed
to overhaul the 45 billion-euro austerity plan of Aug. 5, which
had helped persuade the ECB to start buying the country’s bonds.
While the full impact of the changes remain unclear, Berlusconi
dropped a tax on the highest earners and limited funding cuts to
regional governments.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said last week Italy must
confirm its commitment to deficit reduction. The Aug. 5 plan is
of “extreme importance” and must be “fully confirmed and
substantiated,” Trichet said in an interview with  Il Sole 24
Ore  published Sept. 2.  Greek Yields  Greek bonds fell, with the 10-year yield rising as much as
106 basis points to a euro-era record 19.34 percent. The spread
versus similar-maturity German bunds widened to a record 1,747
basis points, or 17.47 percentage points.  The nation’s two-year note yield rose as much as 318 basis
points, or 3.18 percentage points, to 50.38 percent, after
earlier falling to 46.23 percent.  The Portuguese-German 10-year yield spread widened 63 basis
points to 888 basis points, the most since Aug. 30. The French-
German 10-year spread expanded six basis points to 83 basis
points, the most since Aug. 11, while the Spanish-German 10-year
spread added 20 basis points to 341, the most since Aug. 8.  German  government bonds  have returned 6.5 percent this
year, according to indexes compiled by the European Federation
of Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg, while Treasuries
gained 8.3 percent. Italian debt has lost 1.1 percent, while
Greek bonds have shed 24 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Jenkins in  London  at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  