-- 
German Court Rules on Last Year’s Euro-Bailout

-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 
2011-09-05T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/german-euro-rescue-ruling-will-focus-on-yesterday-s-chapter-.html
One week after German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel ’s Cabinet ratified additional measures to combat
the euro-area debt crisis, the nation’s top court will rule on
whether her government was right to take part in the rescues at
all.  The Federal Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe will issue a
ruling on last year’s bail-out packages tomorrow. While
anxiously anticipated by lawmakers and scholars, investors
believe the judges are likely to rubber-stamp German
participation in the bailouts, said Kai Schaffelhuber, a capital
markets lawyer at Allen & Overy LLP in  Frankfurt .  “I don’t know anybody who marked calendars red for
Wednesday,” Schaffelhuber said. “You could argue history has
already moved on so that the court is ruling about one of
yesterday’s chapters in the euro-drama.”  The court cases target  Germany ’s share of the 110 billion-
euros ($155 billion) in loans for  Greece  from euro-region
governments and the  International Monetary Fund  as well as a
separate 750 billion-euro rescue fund that sought to halt the
spread of Greece’s debt crisis. Merkel is already seeking
parliamentary approval for new measures endorsed July 21 by EU
leaders to beef up the rescue funds.  Merkel pledged last week to consult lawmakers as much as
they felt necessary as her Cabinet agreed on a reworked European
Financial Stability Facility that will raise Germany’s share of
EFSF loan guarantees to 211 billion euros from 123 billion
euros. The draft legislation, to be introduced to the lower
house today, gives parliament the right to decide how it
participates in EFSF operations while leaving room to
incorporate any guidelines handed down by the court.  Technical Issue  The court will rule on the technical issue of whether
constitutional constraints have been kept and not on whether the
rescue is economically sound, Schaffelhuber said. When the
judges rejected emergency bids last year seeking to halt German
payouts, they sent a message about the final ruling, he said.  “They positioned themselves that way and it’s unlikely
they will now say all of it was unconstitutional,” he said.  Plaintiffs include law professor Karl Schachtschneider,
economists Joachim Starbatty, Wilhelm Hankel and Wilhelm Noelling, former Thyssen AG Chief Executive Officer Dieter Spethmann and Peter Gauweiler, a lawmaker from the Bavarian
sister party of Merkel’s  Christian Democrats .  They argue German participation in the packages undermines
the budgetary rights of parliament and violates the right to
democratic representation as well as the protection of property.
At a press conference yesterday, they said Merkel and Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  are using the opportunities provided
by the euro’s failure to transform the European Union into a
federal state.  No ‘Red Cards’  “When they say that the currency union is an interminable
shared destiny, then that means bailouts without limits,”
Starbatty said at the press conference. “It’s like playing
soccer without red cards.”  A spokesman for the German Finance Ministry declined to
comment.  “The plaintiffs have a case if you look at the European
rules at stake. Nevertheless, they won’t win it,” Schaffelhuber
said. “There is political consensus the debt crisis should be
tackled this way and so the court won’t block it -- as much as
it didn’t block the euro when it was challenged.”  The plaintiffs have unsuccessfully turned to the court
before in an attempt to block German participation in EU
treaties, including the introduction of the common currency.  ‘Crisis Situation’  “ Europe ’s future and the right economic strategy to tackle
the debt crisis isn’t debated in Karlsruhe,” Presiding Judge
Andreas Vosskuhle said at a July 5 hearing. “That’s the task of
politicians, not of judges. But the court must consider the
limits the constitution sets the political realm. Self
limitation by law is the foundation of the democratic
constitutional state -- above all in a crisis situation.”  One issue the judges looked at was whether the fund’s
mechanism violates lawmakers’ rights to decide on the budget.
Even while lawmakers cleared the packages, they may have allowed
the government to assume liabilities which take future budget
decisions out of their hands.  “The question is whether parliament has the right to pawn
its crown jewels,” Udo di Fabio, the judge who will draft the
court’s ruling in the case, told parties at the hearing.  The cases are BVerfG, 2 BvR 987/10, 2 BvR 1099/10 and 2 BvR
1485/10.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 