-- 
Global Investors Should Brace ‘For More Pain’ on China Policy, CICC Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-05T07:35:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/global-investors-should-brace-for-more-pain-on-china-outlook-cicc-says.html
Global investors should brace “for
more pain” as manufacturing growth slumps and prospects that
Chinese monetary policies will loosen have faded, said China
International Capital Corp.,  Asia ’s biggest investment bank.  China’s August manufacturing data was one of the lowest
since the end of the global financial crisis, while factory
output in  South Korea ,  Taiwan ,  France ,  Italy , the UK and Sweden
all dropped below expansion levels, Hao Hong, a Beijing-based
global strategist at CICC, wrote in a report. CICC and Shenyin &
Wanguo Securities Co. cut their earnings forecasts for publicly
traded companies this year on speculation the central bank may
not halt measures to curb credit growth and tame inflation.  “Our view has been that rebounds are likely to be fleeting
and feeble unless fundamentals start to improve,” Hong said.
“For now, we should brace ourselves for more pain.”  The Shanghai Composite Index dropped 2 percent to 2,478.74
at the 3 p.m. close, the lowest level in almost 14 months. The
benchmark measure has fallen 12 percent this year, adding to a
14 percent drop in 2010, driving down estimated price earnings
for the benchmark measure to a record low of 11.4 times. The
central bank raised rates five times and ordered lenders to set
aside more cash as deposit reserves 12 times since the start of
2010 to contain consumer-price inflation that reached a three-
year high in July.  China  Economy  “The odds are low that policies will be fine-tuned in the
short term,” analysts led by Li Peng at the Shenyin & Wanguo,
wrote in a report today. “Even if CPI peaks in August and eases
by a large margin, the policies are still expected to be in
place for a while. The government is confident about the
dynamics of the economy.”  CICC is the top-ranked China research provider in Asiamoney
magazine’s survey while Shenyin & Wanguo was ranked the
country’s most influential brokerage for research by New Fortune
magazine last year.  China’s Purchasing Managers’ Index was at 50.9 last month,
trailing economists’ estimates, and compared with a 29-month low
of 50.7 in July, the China Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing said on Sept. 1. A Chinese services index fell to a
record low in August as new business growth moderated, adding to
evidence the economy is slowing, according to a statement issued
by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics today.  No Policy Change  Premier  Wen Jiabao  wrote in the ruling Communist Party’s
Qiushi magazine last month that the nation’s top priority is
stabilizing prices and the government doesn’t plan to alter the
direction of economic policies.  The premier’s comment has “dashed” bets that policies
will ease in China, CICC’s Hong said. The People’s Bank of China
may even raise  interest rates  one more time before the end of
the year, he said.  Earnings at major companies trading on the Shanghai and
Shenzhen exchanges may rise 19.1 percent this year, compared
with a previous estimate of 23.2 percent, Shenyin & Wanguo wrote
in today’s report.  Shanghai Composite companies posted 24 percent earnings
growth in the first half of the year, slowing from a 48 percent
gain in the first quarter, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Shiyin Chen  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  