-- 
Bank Liquidity Requirements May Be Eased by Global Regulators, FT Reports

-- B y   B e n   L i v e s e y
-- 
2011-09-06T04:02:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/global-regulators-may-ease-new-bank-liquidity-rules-ft-reports.html
Global regulators may ease new rules
requiring banks to hold more liquid assets to weather a funding
crisis amid lenders’ claims that the regulations may curtail
lending, the Financial Times reported.  Members of the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  want
to soften key technical definitions of the so-called “liquidity
coverage ratio,” due to take effect in 2015, the newspaper
reported, citing people familiar with the discussions.  Twenty-eight European banks faced a total liquidity
shortfall of 493 billion euros ($694 billion) at the end of 2010
under the ratio’s current structure, which requires lenders to
hold enough “easy-to-sell assets” to withstand a 30-day run on
their funding, the FT report said, citing research by  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  Only seven of those lenders met the enhanced
standards, according to JPMorgan.  “Whatever the technical adjustments that are made, we’re
still going to see banks re-capitalizing in  Europe  quite
significantly,” said David Gaud, a Hong Kong-based senior
portfolio manager of Edmond de Rothschild Asset Management which
had 15.4 billion euro of assets under management as of May 31.
“If they soften the Basel rule, everybody will know it’s been
softened which is not a fair reflection of the real risks.”  The changes being considered would effectively cut the
liquidity levels banks would be required to hold and allow them
to include more corporate and covered bonds, the FT said.  The Basel committee’s staff is gathering data on the
potential impact of the ratio and a subgroup is working on
definitions ahead of a full meeting of the group this month, the
FT reported.  U.S. and continental European regulators are expected to
push for changes to ease the impact on their banks, while the
U.K., which introduced the rules in 2009, is said to support the
status quo, according to the newspaper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Livesey in  San Francisco  at 
 blivesey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Livesey at 
 blivesey@bloomberg.net  