-- 
Yields Converging Most in Two Years as JGBs No Longer Lowest: Japan Credit

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-09-06T01:35:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/global-yields-converging-as-jgbs-no-longer-lowest-japan-credit.html
Japan ’s government bond yields are
no longer the lowest in the world as Swiss, U.S. and German debt
markets converge more than at any time in at least two years.  Switzerland’s 10-year yields fell below Japan’s last month
for the first time since 1994. Ten-year Treasuries yielded 91
basis points more than their Japanese equivalent today, the
least since December 2008. The extra yield offered by  Germany 
debt narrowed to a level unseen since 1990.  Global demand for bonds rose after the  Federal Reserve 
pledged to keep U.S. borrowing costs near zero into 2013 and a
sovereign debt crisis reduced chances that the  European Central
Bank  will raise its key rate. Those economies risk
“Japanization,” said Hiromasa Nakamura, a senior investor at
Mizuho Asset Management Co., whose company oversees the
equivalent of $39 billion. They may run into the same pitfall as
the Asian nation that hasn’t been able to stoke growth even with
 interest rates  below 0.5 percent since 1995, he said.  “Advanced economies are very fragile,” Nakamura said in a
telephone interview in Tokyo yesterday. “Due to the flight to
quality, the global bond rally will continue.”  Ten-year Treasury yields slid to a record 1.9066 percent
today. Japan’s 10-year debt yielded 0.995 percent as of 9:52 a.m.
in Tokyo, 2.5 basis points from a nine-month low reached Aug. 19.
The rate was 1.847 percent in Germany and 0.913 percent in
Switzerland.  Fed Outlook  Fed policy makers said on Aug. 9 that they are “prepared
to employ” additional tools to bolster the economy. Labor
Department data showed on Sept. 2 that U.S. payrolls were
unchanged in August at the weakest reading since September 2010.  Demand for credit in the U.S. has lagged behind growth in
 bank deposits . The difference between customer deposits and
lending widened to a record $1.61 trillion last month, Fed data
showed. The gap is also near an all-time high in Japan.  “What’s been said numerous times in Japan is that because
there’s no demand for loans, banks have no choice but to direct
customer deposits to sovereign bonds,” said Daisuke Karakama, a
market economist in Tokyo at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd.
“Something very similar is being played out in other countries,
and that’s so-called Japanization.”  U.S. banks’ holdings of Treasuries and government-related
debt climbed to $1.67 trillion as of Aug. 24, more than twice
the 30-year average of $743 billion, Fed data showed.  Bond Returns  Global  government bonds  with a maturity of 10 years or
longer handed investors a 3.38 percent gain in August, the most
in a year, according to an index compiled by Bank of America
Merrill Lynch. Debt with a maturity of less than 10 years
returned 1.579 percent.  Signs of economic slowdown in the U.S. and a deepening debt
crisis in the euro region have boosted demand for refuge
currencies including the franc and yen, hurting exporters in
Switzerland and Japan. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s party
on Sept. 4 suffered its fifth election loss this year as voters
resisted her bid to put more taxpayer money on the line for
bailouts of indebted euro-zone states.  The currencies of  Switzerland  and Japan tend to strengthen
during periods of financial stress because their export-reliant
economies don’t need foreign capital to balance their current
accounts, the broadest measure of trade. A stronger currency
reduces the value of overseas earnings when repatriated.  The extra yield investors demand to own Japanese corporate
debt instead of similar-maturity government bonds is 66 basis
points, down from this year’s peak of 78 basis points on June 10,
according to Nomura Securities Co.’s Bond Performance Index.  Default Insurance  Credit-default swaps insuring Japan’s sovereign debt for
five years climbed to 113 basis points on Aug. 24, the highest
since March 16, according to New York-based CMA, which is owned
by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. They were at 108.7 basis points
yesterday.  The contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Japanese companies cut  capital spending  by 8.2 percent in
the second quarter, the Ministry of Finance said on Sept. 2,
compared with the 0.7 percent gain estimated by economists.
Following the data, Credit Suisse Group AG cut its forecast for
Japan’s economy, saying the nation’s gross domestic product will
decrease 1.1 percent this year, compared with its August
projection of a 0.8 percent contraction.  ‘False Dawn’  “Because the Japanese economy relies on external drivers,
it is affected by slowing growth around the world,” said
Tetsuya Inoue, chief researcher for financial markets at Tokyo-
based Nomura Research Institute Ltd. “The  Bank of Japan  needs
to ease the pain and reduce the burden on the Japanese economy
in the face of a global slowdown.”  Japan’s overnight-index swaps for a period of three years
or shorter, an indication of what derivative traders expect the
policy rate will average during the period, are at 0.074 percent,
compared with the BOJ’s target range of zero to 0.1 percent. The
BOJ will hold a two-day policy meeting on Sept. 6.  BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa  warned  last year that
optimism might run ahead of reality when signs arose in 2009
that developed economies were starting to pick up.  “Whenever some signs of recovery were observed in Japan,
expectations that the economy would finally escape from stagnant
conditions and enter a full-fledged recovery were rising,”
Shirakawa said in a speech on Oct. 10 at the 2010 annual
membership meeting of the  Institute of International Finance .
Based on “Japan’s experience, I attempted to draw public
attention to the risk of falling into false optimism by using
the phrase of a ‘false dawn.’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in  Tokyo  at   myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  