-- 
Grupo Gowex CEO Garcia Plans Acquisitions, May Buy Back Shares

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-09-05T07:36:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/grupo-gowex-ceo-garcia-plans-acquisitions-may-buy-back-shares.html
Grupo Gowex (GOW) , a Spanish provider of
outdoor Wi-Fi wireless services, plans to acquire one or two
companies in Europe or Latin America this year and may buy back
shares, Chief Executive Officer Jenaro Garcia said.  Gowex, whose suppliers include  Telefonica SA (TEF) ,  France
Telecom SA (FTE) ’s Orange division and  Jazztel Plc (JAZ) , will invest as
much as 16 million euros ($23 million) of cash to buy
businesses, Garcia said in a telephone interview. Madrid-based
Gowex may use stock to make acquisitions, he said. Share prices
have fallen worldwide this year because of the debt crisis,
reducing prices for buyers.  “We want to use our liquidity position to take over
companies whose valuations declined due to the worldwide
crisis,” Garcia said. “There are now lots of businesses to buy
in  Europe  and we don’t rule out buying back shares this month.”  Gowex was founded 1999 by Garcia and operates in at least
15 countries. It provides Wi-Fi access in public squares,
streets, kiosks and buses in cities including Madrid and Buenos
Aires. The company has won five projects this summer in
Argentina, Brazil and Chile, Garcia said. The company’s revenue
climbed to 49.6 million euros last year from 35.2 million euros
in 2009, according to Bloomberg data.  “We’re on the right track to meet our target of 65 million
euros to 70 million euros in revenue this year,” Garcia said.
“We will actually be in the mid- to high-end of the range and
margins are increasing through all business lines.”  Gowex shares trade in Spain and  France . The stock climbed
39 percent this year before today to 4.65 euros in Madrid,
giving the company a market value of about 60 million euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  