-- 
Libya Leaders Say China Relationship Will Suffer If Arms Sold to Qaddafi

-- B y   C h r i s   S t e p h e n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-09-06T09:33:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/libya-leaders-say-china-relationship-will-suffer-if-arms-sold-to-qaddafi.html
Libya’s relations with  China  will
suffer if there is confirmation of a report that Chinese state
companies offered to sell  Muammar Qaddafi  $200 million worth of
arms during the rebellion, the North African nation’s new
leaders said.  “If indeed the Chinese government agreed to sell arms to
Qaddafi only a month ago, definitely it will affect our
relationship with China,” the National Transitional Council’s
finance minister, Ali Al Tarhouni, told Al Jazeera television
yesterday.  Tarhouni was speaking in response to a  story  by Toronto’s
Globe and Mail newspaper, whose reporter in Tripoli said he
found Qaddafi-government documents suggesting Chinese companies
offered to sell to surface-to-air missiles designed to bring
down aircraft, in addition to other weapons and munitions.  The Arabic-language documents, copies of which were posted
on the newspaper’s website on Sept. 4, include details of a trip
to Beijing by Libyan security officials to discuss the possible
purchase of weapons on July 16, when  Libya  was under a United
Nations arms embargo.  Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs spokeswoman Jiang Yu
denied yesterday that state-owned companies offered to sell arms
to Qaddafi, who is in hiding after rebel forces took control of
the capital, Tripoli, late last month.  ‘Chinese Companies’  “The Qaddafi regime sent people to China to make contact
with certain individuals of relevant Chinese companies in July
without the knowledge of government departments,” she said in
Beijing. “Chinese companies have not signed any military trade
contracts with Libya, let alone sold arms to Libya.”  China today said it will tighten control over exports of
arms.  “This was an act of individuals, of relevant companies and
this contact did not lead to any actual act of export,” Jiang
said. “China will continue to strictly implement the UN
resolution and further strengthen management of military
exports.”  Vehicles of army troops loyal to Qaddafi have crossed the
border into  Niger  this week. The Libyan army vehicles entered
the Niger city of Agadez late yesterday and were headed to the
capital, Niamey, Salley Kolle, a police officer, said today by
phone. Niger’s Nomade FM radio station reported yesterday that
Qaddafi’s intelligence chief, Mansour Daw, was in the convoy.  ‘Don’t Want China’  The Libya documents relating to China were found by a Globe
and Mail reporter in the trash in Tripoli’s Bab Akkarah
neighborhood, where Qaddafi loyalists had lavish homes, the
newspaper said. The material suggested the arms would be
delivered through third countries such as  South Africa  or
 Algeria . The documents didn’t confirm whether any military
assistance had been delivered.  Popular sentiment among many Libyan rebels is against China
already because of a perception that the nation objected to the
UN  Security Council  resolutions in March that authorized the
arms embargo, sanctions and an air campaign.  “We don’t want China, because China is not going with
us,” said a Misrata hotel executive, Mahmoud Al Malbrook, in an
interview. “China, it deals all the time with Qaddafi.”  The image of China as harmful to the Libyan rebel cause is
widespread in areas under the control of the National
Transitional Council. China hasn’t yet recognized the NTC, while
about 60 states have.  Russia, China  In late May, Abdeljalil Mayuf, spokesman for Arabian Gulf
Oil Co., at the time the largest  oil company  in rebel hands,
said in an interview in Benghazi that China would suffer a
penalty for a perceived lack of support for the UN resolutions.  “There must be a reordering for  India , China,  Brazil ,”
said Mayuf. “I am sure that some of these contracts will be
canceled. Russia and China have personal control with sons of
Qaddafi, they gambled on the wrong horse.”  Chinese  oil companies  are among 44 businesses that have
contracts for oil exploration in concessions agreed on with
Libya since 2007. The NTC has repeatedly said it will honor all
of Libya’s contracts.  Abdul Hakim Moktar, a rebel fighter based in Misrata, said
the opposition wants to use the postwar period to reward
friendly nations and punish unfriendly ones. He singled out
Qatar, the U.S., Britain and  France  as “friendly” states and
characterized China and  Russia  as “unfriendly.”  “The countries who helped us, we will not forget them,”
he said in an interview. “In this war, many people love us and
we will not forget them. China did not help us.”  Yet even in Misrata, where sentiment against China seems
strong, trade with the country continues. A consignment of
several thousand plastic independence flags arrived in the city
last month to be given out for planned street celebrations when
the war officially ends. The flags were made in China.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Stephen  in Misrata at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 