-- 
Indian Bonds Advance on Speculation RBI Will Halt Rate Increases

-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-09-05T12:00:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/indian-bonds-advance-on-speculation-rbi-will-halt-rate-increases.html
Indian bonds rose the most in more
than two weeks on speculation the central bank will halt
interest-rate increases as weaker-than-expected U.S. jobs data
adds to evidence the global economic recovery is stalling.  Yields on the most-traded 10-year debt fell to a one-week
low after a report on Sept. 2 showed U.S. payrolls were
unchanged last month. Economists in a Bloomberg survey predicted
an increase of 68,000. The  Reserve Bank  of  India , which has
boosted its repurchase rate five times this year to 8 percent,
will next review borrowing costs on Sept. 16.  “The central bank may not increase rates at the next
meeting as global growth concerns persist,” said R.S. Chauhan,
chief dealer of fixed income and currencies in Mumbai at  State
Bank of Bikaner & Jaipur. (SBBJ)  “That view is supporting bonds.”  The yield on the 7.8 percent bonds due April 2021 fell six
basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 8.29 percent at the 5
p.m. close in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading
system. That’s the lowest level level since Aug. 25.  India’s services industry grew at the slowest pace in more
than two years in August as a weakening global economy
restrained consumer demand.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index fell to 53.8 last month from
58.2 in July, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said in an
e-mailed statement today. That’s the lowest level since June
2009. A reading above 50 indicates an expansion.  The cost of one-year interest-rate swaps, or derivative
contracts used to guard against fluctuations in borrowing costs,
fell 23 basis points to 7.62 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  