-- 
Services Expand at Slowest Pace in Two Years in August as Costs Increase

-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-09-05T07:12:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/indian-services-grow-at-slowest-pace-in-two-years-after-record-rate-rises.html
India ’s services industry grew at
the slowest pace in more than two years in August after the
central bank’s record interest-rate increases and a weakening
global economy restrained consumer demand.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index fell to 53.8 last month from
58.2 in July, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said in an
e-mailed statement today. That’s the lowest level since June
2009. A reading above 50 indicates an expansion.  Asia ’s growth has slowed as a faltering recovery in the U.S.
and  Europe ’s debt crisis hurt the region’s exports, complicating
monetary policy for central banks still grappling with price
pressures. India’s manufacturing grew at the slowest pace in 29
months in August, a report showed last week, while inflation has
exceeded 9 percent for eight straight months even after 11 rate
increases by the  Reserve Bank  of India since mid-March 2010.  “The lagged effects of monetary policy tightening, the
elevated level of inflation and the now heightened uncertainty
about the global economic outlook” led to the slowdown in
services growth, Leif Eskesen, a Singapore-based economist at
HSBC, said in the statement. Still, inflation “remains the
dominant concern, calling for a few more policy rate hikes
before the RBI can call it quits,” he said.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index fell 1.3 percent
as of 12:01 p.m. in Mumbai. The rupee slid 0.3 percent to
45.9313 a dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China Services  A separate HSBC-Markit report showed the Chinese services
index fell to a record low of 50.6 last month as new business
growth moderated, adding to evidence the economy is slowing
after the government raised  interest rates , curbed lending and
limited property purchases.  Companies from UBS AG and Credit Suisse Group AG to Morgan
Stanley have cut estimates for Indian economic expansion. UBS
predicts 7.2 percent growth for 2011-2012, lower than an earlier
estimate of 7.5 percent.  India’s Purchasing Managers’ Index for manufacturing fell
to 52.6 in August from 53.6 in July, HSBC and Markit said Sept.
2.  Service industries  in the U.S. probably expanded in August at
the slowest pace in more than a year, adding to concern the
recovery is losing steam, a Bloomberg News survey showed before
a report this week on the  Institute for Supply Management ’s non-
manufacturing index.  Moody’s Forecast  The South Asian nation’s economy may expand 7.5 percent to
8 percent in the financial year through March while inflation
may ease to about 7 percent over the year, Moody’s Investors
Service Senior Analyst Atsi Sheth said in a report today.  “Given current global uncertainty, and the continuing
transmission of the RBI’s tightening over the last year, the
risks to both forecasts are on the downside,” Sheth said. Still,
a slower growth rate in the 7 percent range wouldn’t change
Moody’s assessment of the country’s sovereign credit outlook,
she said.  Reserve Bank of India  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao raised the
benchmark repurchase rate by 0.5 percentage point to 8 percent
on July 26. While threats to growth could increase if global
financial risks amplify, the “immediate challenge to sustaining
growth” lies in taming inflation, the central bank said Aug. 25.  “There has been a moderation in growth but it has not
collapsed,” Samiran Chakraborty, a Mumbai-based economist at
Standard Chartered Plc, said before the report. “Controlling
inflation will take priority over growth concerns and we will
see the central bank raising rates.”  Commercial loans given by banks such as ICICI Bank Ltd.
rose 20.22 percent from a year earlier as of Aug. 12, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg, exceeding the central bank’s 18
percent projection. Mobile-phone operators including Bharti
Airtel Ltd. added 7.64 million customers in July, a 1.28 percent
increase from the previous month, according to the Cellular
Operators Association of India.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  