-- 
ING Refrains From Funding Pension Raise to Preserve Capital

-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 
2011-09-05T14:24:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/ing-refrains-from-funding-pension-raise-to-preserve-capital-1-.html
ING Groep NV (INGA) , the biggest
Dutch financial-services company, refrained from providing its
 pension plan  with funding needed for a higher retirement payout
as the firm seeks to repay state aid.  ING had “substantial reasons” not to fund it, Nick Jue
and Tom Kliphuis, who head the Amsterdam-based company’s Dutch
banking and insurance units, respectively, said in a letter
dated Aug. 31. The  retirement plan  requested the funds to
increase pension payments on Sept. 1 in line with a 1 percent
wage rise for participants in a collective labor agreement.  The pension fund, which managed 13.7 billion euros ($19.4
billion) for almost 75,000 participants at the end of last year,
relies on ING to finance payout increases to keep track with
consumer prices and wages each year. ING, the recipient of 10
billion euros of state bailout funds in 2008, hasn’t made any
payments since September 2009.  The funding needed for the 2011 payment increase, which
would affect about 17,000 retirees, amounts to about 100 million
euros, said Carolien van der Giessen, an Amsterdam-based
spokeswoman for ING.  Several circumstances are forcing ING “to pursue a
consistent policy to strengthen its capital position,” the firm
said in the letter, “Not providing the means for additional
payments is in line with this policy.”  Bailout Funds  ING said it seeks to repay the Dutch government a final
tranche of 3 billion euros in state aid as soon as possible,
while stricter European capital and solvency demands require it
to preserve capital. The company also cited financial risks
related to the separation of its banking and insurance
operations and other European Union-imposed restructuring
requirements and “uncertain” market conditions.  The pension fund said on its website that its management is
studying ING’s letter.  An Amsterdam court earlier this year ruled the Dutch
company had sufficient grounds for refusing to pay for an
increase in line with prices as of January.  In the ruling dated July 27, the court  said  it expects ING
to live up to a commitment that funding pension increases will
have priority over paying a dividend to shareholders after the
state aid is repaid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  