-- 
Israel’s Loss of Turkey Trade May Cost, Fischer Says

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-09-07T13:29:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/israel-s-loss-of-trade-with-turkey-may-be-costly-fischer-says.html
(Corrects number of months in eighth paragraph of story
published Sept. 6.)  A further unraveling of Israel’s
commercial ties with  Turkey  amid an escalating diplomatic feud
risks costly damage to Israeli exports, said  Stanley Fischer ,
head of the central bank in  Jerusalem .  Turkey has been Israel’s biggest trading partner in the
region and its economic influence is growing rapidly, Fischer
said. He spoke yesterday at a Tel Aviv conference that focused
on how Israel can improve cooperation with its neighbors as the
political environment grows increasingly hostile.  “The consequences of not having trading relations with
Turkey will be potentially expansive, particularly for us,”
said Fischer, governor of the  Bank of Israel . “In terms of the
sophisticated economies in the region, which is where we export
most successfully, it is the most important.”  Turkey suspended military relations with Israel and
expelled Israel’s ambassador from the country over Israeli Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s refusal to apologize for the
killing of nine Turkish activists on a ship that sought to break
an embargo last year and bring aid supplies to the  Gaza Strip .  Credit-default swaps to insure five-year Israeli debt
against non-payment have risen by 5.5 basis points since Sept.
2, the day Turkey announced it would downgrade ties. The swaps
were trading at 165.5 yesterday, according to Bloomberg data.  Trade Grows  “Israel and Turkey are the two strongest countries, and in
many ways the most important countries in the  Middle East ,”
Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  said in an e-mailed statement today.
“We have our differences, but also during times of differences
it is important that the two sides follow their head and not
their gut. The best thing for us and the stability of the region
is to rehabilitate the situation.”  Turkey will increase its naval presence in the eastern
Mediterranean to help protect the right to free travel as
tensions with Israel mount, Istanbul-based Sabah newspaper
 reported  today, without saying how it obtained the information.  Trade between Israel and Turkey grew to $1.36 billion in
the first four months of 2011 from about $1 billion in the same
period last year, according to the  Central Bureau of Statistics 
in Jerusalem.  Some of the trade has involved the purchase of arms by
Turkey from  Elbit Systems Ltd. (ESLT)  and state-owned Israel Aerospace
Industries Ltd. Among other companies that do business in Turkey
are Bank Hapoalim Ltd., Israel’s second-biggest bank by assets,
and  Oil Refineries Ltd. (ORL) , its biggest refiner.  Oil Trade  The rupture in ties may reduce Israel’s government imports
of petrochemicals and oil products from Turkey, according to
Alon Liel, professor of international relations at Hebrew
University and a former Israeli charge d’affaires in Turkey.  “The fact that all the senior diplomats are being
recalled, including the economic attaches, will have a negative
effect on trade,” Liel said.  Haifa-based Elbit fell 0.6 percent to 135.20 shekels at 1
p.m. in Tel Aviv, after dropping 6.2 percent in the previous two
sessions.  Hapoalim posted a 2011 half-year profit of $900,000 from
its Turkish unit Bank Pozitif & Kalkinma Bankasi AS. In the
worst-case scenario of a Turkish nationalization of assets such
as Pozitif, damage to Hapoalim would amount to 3.3 percent of
its market value, Psagot Investment House said in a research
report. Hapoalim shares fell 1.6 percent to 13.57 shekels,
extending its slide this month to 8.3 percent.  Bank Stake  Israeli financial daily Calcalist reported yesterday that
Hapoalim may sell its stake in Bank Pozitif, without saying
where it got the information. Bank Pozitif denied the report
today and Hapoalim’s spokeswoman, Ofra Preuss, said the lender
doesn’t comment on speculation. Calcalist said the dispute made
it less likely that the Turkish regulator would license Pozitif
to collect consumer deposits.  Oil Refineries would see a drop of several million dollars
in sales should Turkey cut trade ties, Psagot said, adding that
the decline could be offset in alternative markets. The shares
fell for a fourth day, dropping 1.2 percent to 1.85 shekels.  Turkey cut back its ties with  Israel  after the release of a
United Nations report on Israel’s 2010 commando raid on a vessel
attempting to breach the blockade of Hamas-controlled Gaza.
Israel says its soldiers were attacked by activists aboard the
Mavi Marmara and released video footage to support the
assertion. Passengers say Israeli troops fired first.  Gaza Blockade  The UN report said Israel’s naval blockade of the
Palestinian enclave is legal and that the country is entitled to
enforce it. In a 105-page document released Sept. 2, it also
said Israel’s effort to stop the ship was excessive. UN
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon urged Israel and Turkey to try to
repair their relationship.  Turkish Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  expressed support
for the Palestinians in the conflict with Israel after a meeting
in Ankara yesterday with Palestinian Authority envoy Nabil Shaath.  Palestinians have “a natural right” to a state, and
Turkey will back their bid for statehood recognition at the UN
later this month, Davutoglu said. Shaath said the Palestinians
support Turkey over any legal claims against Israel in
connection with the raid on the Gaza flotilla ship.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 