-- 
John Lewis Plans to Expand Own-Label Menswear to Stay Ahead of Rivals

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-09-05T14:21:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/john-lewis-to-expand-own-label-menswear-to-stay-ahead-of-rivals.html
John Lewis  Partnership Plc, the
U.K.’s largest department-store chain, plans to increase the
proportion of menswear sales derived from its own labels to
almost a third in an effort to keep ahead of rivals.  The employee-owned  retailer  will start selling 45 new
products under the John Lewis & Co. label on Sept. 13 and aims
to increase the proportion of own-brand sales from about 25
percent now, according to Matt McCormack, the head of menswear.  “It’s our way of differentiating ourselves from the high
street, an element of something that can’t be purchased anywhere
else,” McCormack said in an interview. “John Lewis has a
great, rich heritage and it’s a great brand to do it with.”  Own-brands tend to be more profitable for department stores
than lines sold by concession partners such as  Ted Baker Plc (TED)  and
Diesel SpA. John Lewis is aiming to keep in front of smaller
rivals such as Debenhams Plc, which has been replacing areas in
its outlets run by other retailers with its own labels.  John Lewis & Co. will target men in their mid-to-late 20s
up to the age of 40 with products such as a 59-pound ($95.10)
stripe crew jumper, McCormack said. That’s younger than existing
John Lewis men’s range, which includes cashmere scarves and 35-
pound gingham Oxford shirts, he said.  The retailer is also extending its formal ranges with the
introduction of a Made in Italy line that includes a 400-pound
camel hair coat, the executive said. It’s also adding a 150-
pound two-button suit jacket as part of the slim-fit John Lewis
Collection, as well as the John Lewis British range, which
offers tweed jackets and Melton collars.  “About 30 percent of our offer needs to be exclusive,”
McCormack said.  John Lewis also added new women’s wear ranges from today
based on collaborations with designers. These include lines from
Osman Yousefzada, Clements Ribeiro and a 30-piece Fiona Paxton
jewelry collection with a 1920s beaded-flapper trend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net . 