-- 
Kenya Bank to Hold Special Monetary Policy Meeting Next Week

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-09-05T14:02:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/kenya-s-monetary-policy-committee-will-hold-special-meeting-on-sept-14.html
Kenya ’s monetary policy committee
will hold a special meeting on Sept. 14 to review efforts to
curb inflation and defend the shilling.  “Having seen that the confusion on the supply side is
subsiding, we can now assess the situation once more” at the
meeting,  Central Bank of Kenya  Governor Njuguna Ndung’u said
today in an e-mailed response to questions.  Harvests expected in September or October could help curb
food shortages in the region caused by drought and a famine in
Somalia, Ndung’u said on Aug. 18. Surging food prices have
helped push inflation in  East Africa ’s biggest economy to 16.7
percent, more than triple the government’s target.  The central bank cut its key lending rate in January and
then raised it at the next two meetings to bolster the currency
and curb prices. The bank surprised markets in July by leaving
the benchmark at 6.25 percent, saying higher rates can’t curb
supply-led inflation. Last month it boosted charges for use of
its discount window, a step it said was aimed at reducing
speculation that is weakening the shilling, then reversed some
of the increase after inter-bank borrowing costs soared.  “What is required here is orthodox  monetary policy , not
unorthodox moves which they have been doing all year,”  Aly-Khan
Satchu , chief executive officer of Rich Management, which
invests funds for high net-worth individuals, said by phone from
Nairobi today. Investors expect an increase in the benchmark
lending rate, which is “clearly out of whack with other
 interest rates ,” he said.  Loan Costs Surge  The cost of using the discount window surged above 31
percent on Aug. 26, after the central bank pegged it to rates on
the  interbank market . The discount rate has since eased to 13.7
percent as the bank changed the way it’s calculated.  The shilling has dropped 14 percent against the dollar this
year, hitting a 17-year low of 95.10 on Aug. 9. It traded at
94.72 at 4 p.m. local time today.  Ndung’u has blamed speculative trading for the currency’s
decline, and said the measures taken by the central bank were
appropriate.  “If you’re driving and you sight a pothole you slow down
and swerve to avoid it,” Ndung’u said by e-mail. “This does
not mean you have changed the direction of travel.”   Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta  on Aug. 25 called for a
return to monetary stability.  Decisions at the Sept. 14 policy meeting will probably be
announced the next day, Samson Burgei, a spokesman for the
Nairobi-based central bank, said by phone today. The committee
will hold its regular bi-monthly meeting later this month, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
3510 or  smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 