-- 
Kuwait’s Global Has Creditor Approval to Negotiate Debt Terms

-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-09-05T07:45:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/kuwait-s-global-has-creditor-approval-to-negotiate-debt-terms.html
Global Investment House KSCC (GLOBAL) , which
restructured $1.73 billion of debt in 2009, said the majority of
its creditors approved waiving a clause in their agreement which
opens the door to negotiating the terms of the debt rescheduling
facility.  “The majority of banks have already approved an amendment
to the facility arranged, to waive until March 31, 2012, a
condition that might have restricted any negotiations for the
rescheduling of the group’s indebtedness,” Moustafa N. Zantout,
Global’s senior vice president for marketing and communications,
said by phone today.  Global started initial talks with creditors on the
possibility of extending debt repayments “after it became
difficult” for the bank to commit to an agreement reached with
53 creditors in December 2009 to reorganize debt, Al-Qabas
reported today. Negotiations could be affected by an expected
court ruling on a dispute with National Bank of Umm Al-Qaiwain,
the Kuwait-based newspaper said.  Global,  Kuwait ’s biggest investment bank, said in April
that a Dubai court ruled in its favor in a $250 million dispute
with National Bank of Umm Al-Qaiwain. The United Arab Emirates-
based bank was ordered to pay the amount plus an interest of
$54.6 million, Global said at the time. The execution awaits a
final ruling of Dubai’s Court of Cassation.  Global’s repayments since the accord are a total $198
million, the company said last month. Global’s ability to meet
future principal repayments depends on its “ability to make
exits from principal investments, capital raising and resolution
of legal disputes” including a case with National Bank of Umm
Al Qaiwain, the company said Aug. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  