-- 
New Orleans Levees Hold; Flash Floods Seen in Tennessee Valley

-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k   a n d   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 
2011-09-05T19:36:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/new-orleans-levees-hold-flash-floods-seen-in-tennessee-valley.html
The levees held and the party in  New
Orleans  never stopped, banishing, in part, the ghost of
 Hurricane Katrina .  Tropical Storm  Lee  poured as much as 11 inches (28
centimeters) of rain, testing a new drainage and pumping system
to protect the city from flooding following $10 billion of
repairs after Katrina struck  Louisiana  in Aug. 2005.  The city’s pumping system is equipped to pump out 1 inch of
water during the first hour of rainfall, and a half inch every
hour after that. While torrents filled in the lowest points in
the bowl that is New Orleans on Sept. 3 and yesterday, the
street flooding from Lee was something residents see during
every storm with significant rainfall.  The system “performed as designed,” said Marcia St. Martin,
executive director of the  Sewerage and Water Board of New
Orleans , with all pumps operating at “100 percent.” Improvements
since Katrina include structures that act as gates to prevent
the water from Lake Ponchartrain from spilling into the city.
Those were closed on Sept. 2, St. Martin said.  Katrina, one of the deadliest storms in U.S. history,
flooded about 80 percent of  New Orleans , submerging for weeks
some parts of the city in water as deep as 15 feet (4.6 meters).
As many as 1,500 people died  Lulls between the downpours and an uninterrupted electric
power supply allowed the city’s drainage system to work places.
“Even though you can’t see the differences in elevation, the
river is 12 feet higher than Broadmoor,” St. Martin said, citing
the sea level of one of the city’s lowest neighborhoods.  French Quarter  In the  French Quarter , the highest and driest portion of
the city, visitors in town for the week-long Southern Decadence
Festival partied through the rain and wind, though attendance
did falter on last-minute cancellations.  “Bourbon Street looked like it does on Mardi Gras,” said
Rip Naquin-Delain, a festival organizer. “It was a walking bar
crawl,” he said of the popular tourist destination famous for
food and music.  The storm “deterred some that would have driven in for the
weekend,” Naquin said. “We had about 75,000 to 80,000 people.
We were anticipating 100,000 to 150,000. But the people who were
here, were here!”  It wasn’t as festive in Plaquemines Parish, a swathe of
sparsely populated land running along the  Mississippi River 
toward the the Gulf of Mexico. Parish President  Billy Nungesser 
spent the holiday weekend patching levees with sandbags and
crushed cement as the water spilled over along Highway 23, a
route for the oil-industry hub along the Gulf.  Gulf Road  Waiting for the winds to shift, Nungesser said he hoped to
have the highway open sometime today. Earlier, parts of the road
were under as much as four feet of water. On Sept. 3, Nungesser
cut a fence and used an airboat to herd cattle onto the highway
so they wouldn’t drown.  In Lafitte, a small community about 30 miles (48
kilometers) to the south of New Orleans, as much as 65 percent
of the town took on water, said Mayor Tim Kerner. Sandbags and
other efforts saved the local schools, although “some areas are
pretty bad,” he said.  Lafitte was flooded by Hurricane Ike in 2008 and Katrina in
2005. It’s tough “to watch people devastated over and over
again,” Kerner said.  Remnants of Lee are still capable of dumping seven to 10
inches of rain, and could cause flooding in a wide swath from
 Mississippi  through northern Alabama and into the mountainous
regions of  Tennessee  and  North Carolina , said Ken Graham, the
meteorologist in charge of the  National Weather Service  office
in Slidell, Louisiana. The amount of rainfall will be
exacerbated by a cold front moving into that region, he said.  Flash Floods  “You start getting seven to 10 inches of rain -- and there
might be some bull’s eyes higher than that -- that’s not good in
a mountainous area,” Graham said. “There’s probably going to
be some problems up there flooding-wise.”  Lee was about 60 miles from Alexandria, Louisiana, moving
east-northeast at 7 miles per hour, the  National Hurricane
Center  said today in its last advisory on the storm. Winds have
lost strength and are below tropical-storm force in the  Gulf of
Mexico , which accounts for 27 percent of U.S. oil output and 6.5
percent of natural gas production.  Hurricane Katia is moving at about 13 miles per hour in the
Atlantic Ocean and is forecast to curve northeast without ever
touching land, Graham said. The storm has sustained winds of
near 110 miles per hour, making it a Category 2 hurricane on the
 Saffir-Simpson scale . Katia may strengthen over the next 48
hours, the center said. Even if it doesn’t steer close to the
U.S. Eastern seaboard, it could bring high tides, winds and rain
to the coastline, Graham said.  Cold Front Clashing  “That one is big enough that anywhere from the Carolinas
northward you could get some impact from that,” Graham said.
“It’s definitely something we need to still keep an eye on.”  The cold front clashing with the remnants of Lee creates a
“moderate risk” of tornadoes being whipped up in  Alabama  and
 Georgia .  Graham said the  hurricane season , which is over at the end
of November, will reach its peak on Sept. 12, according to 140
years of storm data.  “We still have another two months, including this month, of
a very active storm season,” said Sandy Rosenthal, founder and
executive director of Levees.org, a nonprofit activist
organization founded after Katrina flooded New Orleans.  Lee, she said, “was just a dress rehearsal.”  FEMA Plans  Meanwhile, the U.S.  Federal Emergency Management Agency  has
registered more than 48,000 Hurricane Irene disaster survivors
for individual assistance as of 8 a.m.  New York  time this
morning, agency spokeswoman Rachel Racusen said in a telephone
interview. Irene made landfall Aug. 27, cut a path of
destruction from North Carolina to  Maine , left 45 people dead
and caused power failures to 6.69 million homes and businesses.  The agency is working with states including New York,  New
Jersey ,  Massachusetts , North Carolina and  Vermont  plus  Puerto
Rico  that were hardest hit by Irene, she said.  FEMA is calculating damages not covered by insurance,
Racusen said.  “What we’re still doing with the damage assessments is to
get a sense of what the uninsured losses are and we don’t have a
cost yet,” she said.  The agency also has staff in place in the Gulf of Mexico
region to respond to Lee. Racusen said she doesn’t know of any
state governors who have requested a disaster declaration
because of the storm.  FEMA is also poised to respond to Katia if its track should
head toward the U.S. East Coast, she said. “It’s still a little
too early to know what Katia’s track will be.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey, Mexico at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Theo Mullen in New York at 
 tmullen11@bloomberg.net  