-- 
Libya Factions Jockey for Power as Splits Emerge After Driving Out Qaddafi

-- B y   C h r i s   S t e p h e n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-09-06T10:53:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/new-libyan-factions-maneuver-for-power-as-divisions-emerge.html
Muhsen al-Gubbi, a 30-year-old
Libyan fighter from the western city of Misrata, refuses to
watch the New Libya Television station set up after he and his
fellow combatants drove Muammar Qaddafi from power.  The station, controlled by National Transitional Council
spokesman Mahmoud Shammam, rarely mentions the role played by
Misrata’s fighters in defeating Qaddafi’s army, he says.  “They don’t want to say anything about Misrata,” he said
in an interview at a seafront military base in the city. “I
don’t know what they want -- for Misrata’s revolution to
disappear, that’s what they want.”  The pledge by Libya’s new leaders to form an all-inclusive
government rings hollow for the fighters and the residents of
Misrata, who were under siege by Qaddafi forces for most of the
six months of fighting and feel the transitional administration
is being hijacked by people from Benghazi in the east.  The council, which is moving its offices from Benghazi to
Tripoli, says it’s committed to the rule of law, the writing of
a constitution and the holding of elections, while attempting to
revive the economy and return oil production to pre-conflict
levels of more than 1.5 million barrels a day.  “This is unlikely to be a smooth process, but it can
succeed if all actors agree to a set of basic principles of
political conduct, enshrine them in institutions, and remain
united,” Stefan Wolff, a professor of international studies at
Birmingham University, said in a telephone interview.  Tripoli Patchwork  The NTC faces the challenge in Tripoli of controlling
little more than the offices it has begun to occupy and the
small teams of bodyguards, in crisp new desert-combat uniforms,
who follow its officials in their white armor-plated jeeps.  The rest of the city, where a third of Libya’s 2 million
people live, is a patchwork of checkpoints manned by fighters
from Misrata to the east and Nafusa to the west, or neighborhood
militias on the lookout for so-called fifth columnists or
Qaddafi soldiers masquerading as civilians.  When al-Gubbi’s unit approached Tripoli last month, it was
met not by Qaddafi forces, but crowds of civilians throwing red
flowers. He joked that fighters almost “tired” of the petal
showers. He’s the fifth driver of his unit’s pockmarked black
jeep with a 106 mm recoilless rifle, after the previous four
were killed. “I have lost so many friends,” he said. “There
are so many empty places.”  Qaddafi Avoids Capture  While opposition supporters now control most of Libya,
Qaddafi has avoided capture. The former rebels said he may be in
one of their three target cities: Sirte, 280 miles (450
kilometers) southeast of Tripoli; Bani Walid, 90 miles southeast
of the city; or Sabha, home to a major military base about 400
miles south of the capital.  Representatives of the transitional government agreed today
with elders from Bani Walid for the peaceful entry of their
forces into the town. The meeting was televised live by Al
Jazeera.  Vehicles of Qaddafi’s army troops crossed the border into
Niger yesterday. The convoy entered the Niger city of Agadez
late yesterday and was headed to the capital, Niamey, Salley
Kolle, a police officer, said today by phone. Niger’s Nomade FM
radio station reported yesterday that Qaddafi’s intelligence
chief, Mansour Daw, was in the one of the vehicles.  Friends Of Libya  A group of about 60 nations, dubbed the Friends of Libya,
agreed at a Sept. 1 meeting in Paris to provide the new
leadership with economic and military support, including
continued  NATO  airstrikes. U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton urged the council to form an inclusive democracy, and
avoid reprisals and violent extremism.  In Libya, the Misrata Military Council said on Sept. 2 it
was “surprised” the transitional council didn’t include any
representatives from Misrata, Libya’s third-largest city, on its
board. Instead, it’s dominated by appointees from Benghazi and
eastern Libya.  Benghazi’s power is anchored on Cyrennaica, the eastern
Libyan province, while the Misratan and Tripoli brigades are
from Tripolitania. The Nafusa brigades are from mountains
running from the Tunisian border along the divide between
Tripolitania and the southern and mostly desert province of
Fezzan.  The three provinces were consolidated into a single country
by Italy, which in 1934 was the colonial power and named the
territory Libya, taking the name from the ancient Greek word
that applied to all of North Africa, excluding Egypt.  Regional Affinities  Still, regional affinities cut across tribal politics,
leaving Libya largely free of sectarian divisions. All groups
regard themselves as Libyan and all are Sunni Muslim.  “We know from experience that winning a war is no
guarantee of winning the peace that follows,” Clinton said in
Paris.  The first cracks in Libya’s rebel coalition opened in June,
when the Misrata Council decided not to recognize the officially
issued NTC press passes, and required its own accreditation for
journalists to operate in Misrata.  Abdel Fattah Younis, the rebel military chief and defector
from Qaddafi’s government, was killed on July 28 after he was
taken into custody for questioning by his own side. The council
has never explained his death.  Then, on Aug. 29 protests erupted in Misrata against the
decision of NTC Prime Minister Mahmoud Jibril to appoint
Qaddafi’s former army general, Albarrani Shkal, as security boss
of Tripoli.  Jibril Backtracks  The Misrata Council lodged a complaint with the NTC, saying
its units in Tripoli would refuse to carry out council orders if
the appointment was confirmed. While Jibril backtracked, the
announcement triggered a debate and unearthed divisions over
reconciliation.  The members of the NTC say they will allow former
government members into the interim administration to avoid a
process similar to so-called de-Baathification in Iraq that saw
officials loyal to Saddam Hussein purged, fueling sectarian
tensions.  “The name of the game is inclusion to establish legitimacy
to avoid chaos like happened in Iraq,” Jibril said in May.  Hassan El Amin, who returned to Misrata in June after 28
years exile in the U.K. and is an adviser to the Misrata
Council, said that while its members were prepared to see former
Qaddafi officials in non-security posts, such as the economic
and health ministries, the security apparatus must be cleared
out.  “These people were in power before and they failed,” he
said. “Otherwise all the martyrs, all the blood, will be in
vain.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Stephen in Misrata through the Dubai newsroom at 
   barden@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 