-- 
Nigeria Central Bank Buys Yuan to Add to Reserves, Sanusi Says

-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-09-05T16:59:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/nigeria-central-bank-buys-yuan-to-add-to-reserves-sanusi-says.html
Nigeria ’s central bank is
diversifying its foreign-currency reserves and plans to hold
between 5 percent and 10 percent in Chinese yuan, said Governor
Lamido Sanusi.  Dollars and euros will remain an important part of the
country’s $33 billion holdings, he said today in an interview
broadcast on CNBC.  A downgrade of the U.S.’s credit rating by  Standard &
Poor’s  last month and financial turmoil in  Europe  “added
urgency to start moving away at least some of the reserve from
these currencies and start looking to the future,” Sanusi said.
While the U.S. will remain a very important economy, more
countries will look to China, “which is better managed, and
which seem to have much stronger fundamentals,” Sanusi said.  Nigeria,  Africa ’s top oil producer and most populous
nation with about 140 million people, depends on oil exports for
more than 80 percent of government revenue and 95 percent of
foreign-exchange income.  Nigeria is planning a swap arrangement with the People’s
Bank of China for supplies of yuan, Sanusi said. The Asian
nation’s decision to allow its companies to make outgoing
investments in yuan will also become a source of supplies of the
currency, he said.  “Given the size of the trade between Nigeria and China,
given the fact that we expect that to grow, settlement in yuan
will be one good way to use the liquidity,” Sanusi said.  Total imports from  China  in the first quarter rose 60
percent to 341.8 billion naira ($2.2 billion) compared with
207.8 billion naira from a year earlier, according to the
National Bureau of Statistics. Exports during the period rose 67
percent to 63 billion naira.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  