-- 
Norway Banks Face Tighter Mortgage Rules on Record Private Debt

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-09-05T11:35:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/norway-banks-face-tighter-mortgage-rules.html
Norway ’s Finance Minister Sigbjoern Johnsen said banks may face stricter capital requirements on
mortgage lending as the government looks for ways to bring down
household debt burdens from a two-decade high.  “It’s important that we have a very keen eye on this
because the debt ratio for households is very high,” Johnsen
said today after meeting with top bank executives in Oslo. “We
must have a keen eye on this and to consider stronger capital
requirements is a vital part.”  The world’s second-richest nation per capita after
Luxembourg has been largely shielded from the fallout of
 Europe ’s debt crisis, as its oil wealth helped feed a 10.5
percent budget surplus of gross domestic product last year.
Still, Europe’s lowest unemployment rate, at 2.7 percent, has
encouraged Norwegians to take on debt as the central bank keeps
interest rates near crisis lows.  Household credit rose an annual 7.1 percent in July,
maintaining a 2 1/2-year high, according to  Statistics Norway .
The central bank estimates consumer debt burdens will grow to
more than 204 percent of disposable income next year, the
highest since at least 1988.  Johnsen met today with executives from  DnB NOR ASA (DNBNOR) ,
Norway’s largest bank, and Storebrand ASA, its biggest insurer,
after warning last week that consumers and banks should keep
debt levels in check to cope with higher interest rates when
monetary tightening cycles resume.  Risk Weightings  One measure may be to put a floor on so-called risk
weightings assigned to mortgages, Johnsen said, adding he will
discuss this with other Nordic officials. “It’s important that
we discuss this in a Nordic context because there are different
weights and there is a rather huge proportion of Nordic market
share in Norway.”  Risk weights on mortgages in the Nordic countries are 6
percent to 11 percent, compared with 13 percent to 20 percent in
other European countries, Norway’s central bank said in May.  Rune Bjerke, chief executive officer at DnB, said there is
no need for tighter  capital requirements .  “We have such strict internal guidelines and policies that
we don’t see a need for a new regulation related to mortgages,”
Bjerke said after today’s meeting. “We are stress-testing our
customers in a pretty sophisticated and harsh way so I can’t see
why the guidelines we’re operating under today shouldn’t be
sufficient.”  Rates to Rise  The Financial Supervisory Authority last year introduced
guidelines recommending lenders not make loans exceeding 90
percent of a home’s value. That failed to cool the  property
market  and  house prices  jumped an annual 8 percent in the first
six months of the year.  “It is important to have a close discussion with the
financial sector,” Johnsen said in an interview last week.
“Previous downturns and bubbles, in many cases, had their
rooting in the housing and building sector, so it is very
important to have a keen eye on the development here.”  Norges Bank last month scrapped a planned rate increase and
left its deposit rate at 2.25 percent, citing a “flare-up in
financial market turbulence and clear signs of weaker growth
internationally,” according to the Aug. 10 statement. Still,
the bank said the policy rate remains “low,” adding that
developments in the Norwegian economy supported higher rates.  Norges Bank Governor Oeystein Olsen said today the bank
“will become more concerned if we in parallel saw a significant
growth in housing prices, which we have, and a renewed, strong
growth in the credit level,” in an interview. “Household
credit growth is ticking upwards, but it’s still at a relatively
moderate level compared to a few years ago.”  Bubbles, Deregulation  Norway in the early 1990s seized control of its biggest
banks, in part because of a real estate slump that followed a
surge in lending growth triggered by deregulation in the 1980s.  Policy makers, who in June signaled at least two rate
increases this year and a rate of about 4 percent by the end of
2012, next meet on Sept. 21 to decide on  interest rates .  The bank has signaled it doesn’t want Norwegian rates to
stray too far from borrowing costs in the U.S. and Europe in an
effort to prevent krone gains. The  Federal Reserve  pledged last
month to keep its target lending rate at close to zero until at
least mid-2013, while the Frankfurt-based  European Central Bank 
left rates unchanged and resumed bond purchases to support the
region’s debt markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  