-- 
Obama Addresses Union Labor Day Rally Ahead of Jobs Plan

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-09-05T15:04:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/obama-addresses-union-labor-day-rally-in-preview-of-jobs-plan.html
President  Barack Obama  addresses a
union group in the heart of the U.S.  auto industry  today in a
prelude to a nationally televised speech later this week laying
out his proposals to reignite the economy and boost employment.  Marking the U.S. Labor Day holiday, Obama is set to speak
this afternoon to a core Democratic Party constituency at a
Metro  Detroit  Central Labor Council rally, where he’ll be joined
by U.S. Labor Secretary Hilda Solis and AFL-CIO president
 Richard Trumka .  Before leaving for Detroit, Obama spent the weekend at Camp
David, the presidential retreat in  Maryland , putting the
finishing touches on his Sept. 8 speech to Congress.  “The things that he’s talking about are some things that
have been supported in the past by Republicans and Democrats,”
Solis said this morning on NBC’s “Today” program. Those
include “infrastructure  investment, helping to provide
assistance to those dislocated workers, people who are out of
work, who’ve been out of work for more than six  months and
longer, and also providing tax breaks for middle-class people,
payroll taxes, and for businesses,” she said.  Obama will unveil his new jobs agenda in the speech to
Congress as unemployment remains at 9.1 percent more than two
years after the recession’s official end. The sluggish recovery
from the worst recession since the Great Depression will be
central issues as Obama runs for re-election next year.
Republicans, who control the U.S. House, have signaled
resistance to new spending that would add to the federal  budget
deficit .  Job Growth Stalled  Today’s visit to  Michigan  follows a Sept. 2 Labor
Department report that showed payrolls unexpectedly stalled last
month. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey had called
for a rise of 65,000.  The unemployment rate in Michigan was 10.9 percent in July,
higher than the national average and down from a high of 14.1
percent in September 2009. The White House in June released a
report that said that the $80 billion bailout of the auto
industry and the emergence of  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler
Group LLC from bankruptcy saved at least 1 million jobs. The
administration estimates that the aid will cost taxpayers about
$14 billion.  The United Auto Workers union is bargaining with GM,
Chrysler and Ford Motor Co. for a new contract for U.S.
autoworkers. The union’s contracts covering 113,000 workers at
the three automakers expire Sept. 14.  Labor Pressure  Labor groups are pressing Obama to seek major spending on
infrastructure to create jobs. Unions were disappointed in
Obama’s agreement with Republicans last December that extended
Bush-era tax cuts for all Americans, including the wealthiest,
and in the continuing efforts to cut federal spending by $2.4
trillion.  “I’m hoping that he’ll be very bold” in his jobs’
proposal, Trumka said of Obama last week on Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt .”  “American workers, whether they’re union or not union, are
looking for leadership,” he said. “They don’t want excuses.
They don’t want bipartisan crap.”  Concern over the economy has increased as growth weakened
during the first half of the year to its slowest pace of the
recovery. U.S. stock futures fell, indicating that the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index may slide for a third day when trading
reopens tomorrow, amid concern the world’s largest economy is
weakening.  Obama’s Pivot  Since Congress resolved a months-long partisan standoff
over the national debt limit by raising it on Aug. 2, Obama has
pivoted to a public focus on boosting job growth. He spoke about
jobs on a three-day bus tour through the Midwestern states of
 Minnesota , Iowa and  Illinois , beginning Aug. 15.  Obama has spent much of the year pressing Congress to act
on a familiar set of plans: renewal of a two-percentage-point
cut in the employee-paid portion of the  payroll tax  and extended
 unemployment benefits , which are both scheduled to expire on
Dec. 31; establishment of an infrastructure bank to fund public
works spending; ratification of free-trade deals; and
overhauling patent law. Obama has said those will remain
priorities.  Recent signs of economic weakness have led private
economists to raise forecasts for the  unemployment rate  next
year. The median forecast for unemployment during next year’s
fourth quarter, when the presidential election will be held, is
8.5 percent, according to 51 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News Aug. 2 through Aug. 10.  Since World War II, no U.S. president has won re-election
with a jobless rate above 6 percent, with the exception of
 Ronald Reagan , who faced 7.2 percent unemployment on Election
Day in 1984. The jobless rate under Reagan had come down more
than 3 percentage points during the prior two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Detroit at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net 
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 morning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 