-- 
Obama Says His Jobs Plan Will Push for Rebuilding Nation’s Infrastructure

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-09-05T19:05:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/obama-says-his-jobs-plan-will-push-for-rebuilding-nation-s-infrastructure.html
President  Barack Obama  said spending
to rebuild the nation’s infrastructure is a key component of his
plan to reignite the economy and boost hiring.  In a speech marking the U.S. Labor Day holiday, Obama told
a Metro Detroit Central Labor Council rally today that the jobs
agenda he’ll unveil in a speech to Congress on Sept. 8 will
include proposals that previously have had support from both
parties. He challenged Republicans to “put country before
party” by backing quick action.  “We’ve got roads and bridges across this country that need
rebuilding,” Obama said. “We’ve got more than 1 million
unemployed construction workers ready to get dirty right now.
There is work to be done and there are workers ready to do it.
Labor’s on board, business is on board. We just need Congress to
get on board.”  Obama will unveil his new jobs agenda as unemployment
remains at 9.1 percent more than two years after the recession’s
official end. The sluggish recovery from the worst recession
since the Great Depression will be central issues as Obama runs
for re-election next year. Republicans, who control the U.S.
House, have signaled resistance to new spending that would add
to the federal  budget deficit .  Call for Action  Obama also said he’ll ask Republicans to “prove you’ll
fight just as hard for tax cuts for middle class” Americans as
they have for measures benefiting the wealthy and oil companies.
“The time for action is now,” he said.  Before leaving for Detroit, Obama spent the weekend at Camp
David, the presidential retreat in  Maryland , putting the
finishing touches on his address to Congress.  “The things that he’s talking about are some things that
have been supported in the past by Republicans and Democrats,”
Labor Secretary Hilda Solis said this morning on NBC’s “Today”
program. Those include “infrastructure  investment, helping to
provide assistance to those dislocated workers, people who are
out of work, who’ve been out of work for more than six  months
and longer, and also providing tax breaks for middle-class
people, payroll taxes, and for businesses,” she said.  Obama’s visit today to  Michigan  follows a Sept. 2 Labor
Department report that showed payrolls unexpectedly stalled last
month. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey had called
for a rise of 65,000.  Michigan’s Economy  The unemployment rate in Michigan was 10.9 percent in July,
higher than the national average and down from a high of 14.1
percent in September 2009. The White House in June released a
report that said that the $80 billion bailout of the  auto
industry  and the emergence of  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler
Group LLC from bankruptcy saved at least 1 million jobs. The
administration estimates that the aid will cost taxpayers about
$14 billion.  Obama highlighted the rescue of GM and Chrysler plants in
his speech today, saying, “I’ve seen Detroit prove the cynics
and the naysayers wrong.”  Labor groups are pressing Obama to seek major spending on
infrastructure to create jobs. Unions were disappointed in
Obama’s agreement with Republicans last December that extended
Bush-era tax cuts for all Americans, including the wealthiest,
and in the continuing efforts to cut federal spending by $2.4
trillion.  ‘Very Bold’  “I’m hoping that he’ll be very bold” in his jobs’
proposal, AFL-CIO president  Richard Trumka  said of Obama last
week on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt .”  “American workers, whether they’re union or not union, are
looking for leadership,” he said. “They don’t want excuses.
They don’t want bipartisan crap.”  Trumka and Solis joined Obama at the rally today, which
brought the president before a largely friendly crowd estimated
by Detroit police at 13,000. Members of the audience chanted
“four more years” as Obama took the podium.  “He’s doing a great job, but he has a tough battle to
fight because Republicans are in charge of the  House of
Representatives ,” said Jeffrey Ram, 65, a professor of
physiology at  Wayne State University  in  Detroit , who attended
the rally.  Karen Porter, 52, of Detroit, who also attended the rally,
said she has been unemployed for three years but doesn’t blame
Obama. “I support him more than 100 percent,” she said.  Slow Recovery  Concern over the economy has increased as growth weakened
during the first half of the year to its slowest pace of the
recovery. U.S. stock futures fell, indicating that the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index may slide for a third day when trading
reopens tomorrow, amid concern the world’s largest economy is
weakening.  A poll conducted Aug. 24-25 for  CNN  found 65 percent of
Americans disapprove of the way Obama is handling the economy,
the highest level since he took office. Thirty-four percent said
they approved. The margin of error is plus or minus 3 percentage
points.  Since Congress resolved a months-long partisan standoff
over the national debt limit by raising it on Aug. 2, Obama has
pivoted to a public focus on boosting job growth. He spoke about
jobs on a three-day bus tour through the Midwestern states of
 Minnesota , Iowa and  Illinois , beginning Aug. 15.  Obama’s Agenda  Obama has spent much of the year pressing Congress to act
on a familiar set of plans: renewal of a two-percentage-point
cut in the employee-paid portion of the  payroll tax  and extended
 unemployment benefits , which are both scheduled to expire on
Dec. 31; establishment of an infrastructure bank to fund public
works spending; ratification of free-trade deals; and
overhauling  patent law . Obama has said those will remain
priorities.  Recent signs of economic weakness have led private
economists to raise forecasts for the  unemployment rate  next
year. The median forecast for unemployment during next year’s
fourth quarter, when the presidential election will be held, is
8.5 percent, according to 51 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News Aug. 2 through Aug. 10.  Since World War II, no U.S. president has won re-election
with a jobless rate above 6 percent, with the exception of
 Ronald Reagan , who faced 7.2 percent unemployment on Election
Day in 1984. The jobless rate under Reagan had come down more
than 3 percentage points during the prior two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Detroit at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 