-- 
Mongolia Says $3B Coal IPO Likely Next Year

-- B y   R o b y n   M e r e d i t h   a n d   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 
2011-09-06T01:26:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/mongolia-says-3b-coal-ipo-likely-next-year.html
Mongolia is likely to sell a stake
in its Erdenes Tavan Tolgoi coal-mining company to the public
next year, raising more than $3 billion, the nation’s third-
ranking government official said.  “Most likely, it’s going to happen next year,”
Khurelbaatar Chimed, Minister of Mongolia and Chief of the
Cabinet Office, said today in an interview with Bloomberg TV in
 Hong Kong . Plans haven’t been completed for the initial public
offering, which could be worth more than $3 billion, he said.  The sale would be the nation’s biggest IPO, as much as four
times the size of  Mongolian Mining Corp. (975) ’s HK$5.8 billion ($744
million) IPO in Hong Kong last year. The government is striving
to boost  living standards  in the Asian nation where average per
capita income is about $2,000 a year and whose entire economy
was worth $6.8 billion last year.  The IPO “has a lot of the ingredients that investors would
ultimately find attractive,” Peter Arden, a senior research
analyst at Ord Minnett, said by telephone from  Melbourne .
“Although there is still lingering doubt over the sovereign
risk there, the project is on the doorstep of  China  and the
emerging market.”  Three-City IPO  Erdenes TT may sell shares simultaneously in  London , Hong
Kong and Ulaanbaatar, said two people with knowledge of the deal
on Aug. 31, who declined to be identified because the
information is private. It would be the first company to go
public in the three cities at the same time, as Mongolia
capitalizes on a mining boom driven by demand from China and
 India .  The total market capitalization of the Mongolian stock
exchange was about 2 trillion tugriks ($1.6 billion) as of July
25, according to data on the bourse’s website. Hong Kong’s
exchange,  Asia ’s third largest, was valued at $2.56 trillion
that day.  “The parliament of Mongolia made the decision that 10
percent of the shares will be owned by Mongolian people,”
Chimed said. They may sell the stock later if they want, he
said.  Mongolia’s coal production doubled last year to 25 million
metric tons to become the nation’s top export earner, spurring
the government to push through development of mines. The entire
 Tavan Tolgoi  area holds more than 6 billion tons of coal, one of
the world’s biggest untapped sources of the mineral, according
to Erdenes MGL, the state-controlled owner of the deposit.  Raising Prices  Credit Suisse Group AG in July raised its price forecasts
for coking coal, used in steelmaking, by an average 15 percent
for 2014-2018, citing “unrelenting” demand. Prices rose 47
percent to a record $330 a ton for three-month contracts
starting April 1 and have traded close to records.  Deutsche Bank AG and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  will manage
the IPO for Erdenes TT, while BNP Paribas SA, Macquarie Group
Ltd. will also help arrange it, said the people with knowledge
of the deal.  In July, the Mongolian government picked China Shenhua
Energy Co.,  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)  and a Russian-Mongolian group
to develop another part of the Tavan Tolgoi deposit. A Shenhua-
led group will get a 40 percent share in the project, while
Peabody will hold 24 percent and the Russian-Mongolian venture
36 percent, according to a July 4 statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robyn Meredith in Hong Kong at 
 rmeredith8@bloomberg.net ;
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tyson at 
 ptyson3@bloomberg.net  