-- 
Orkla to Develop Sapa Over Next two, Three Years, CEO Says

-- B y   M e e r a   B h a t i a
-- 
2011-09-05T15:42:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/orkla-to-develop-sapa-over-next-two-three-years-ceo-says-1-.html
Orkla ASA (ORK) , the Norwegian maker of
frozen pizzas and bathroom cleaners, will expand and invest in
its Sapa aluminum business over the coming two to three years,
its chief executive officer said.  “If you look in the short term, the next two to three
years, we’ll continue to develop  Sapa  and also allocate some
more capital,” Bjoern Wiggen said by phone today. The company
will invest to complete some projects in  Asia  and to “develop
our position in  China  and the rest of Asia,” he said.  Oslo-based newspaper  Dagens Naeringsliv  reported today that
Orkla Chairman Stein Erik Hagen is considering selling Sapa. The
chairman also told news agency TDN Finans that a sale wasn’t on
the agenda and that Sapa, which makes alumni profiles, was one
of Orkla’s core businesses.  The Oslo-based company has been selling industrial units
such as its Elkem silicon and foundry products business as well
as forestry assets to focus on its consumer business. The
company also last week offered $933 million in cash to buy the
remaining A-class shares in Jotun AS to expand in the paint
business.  Orkla’s shares fell 4.3 percent to 41.95 kroner today as of
the 5:30 p.m. trading close in Oslo. The stock has dropped 26
percent this year.  “After this period we will make a re-evaluation of Sapa’s
strategic position,” Wiggen said. “If we don’t see a large
further increase in the value potential, then we see that Sapa
will be in a position that it could be listed separately or that
we could look for some other structural solutions.”  The Sapa unit is valued at 19 kroner ($3.51) a share by
Pareto Securities analysts Samir Bendriss and Eirik Dahle, which
is “well above consensus,” the analysts wrote in a note today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Bhatia in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  