-- 
Pakistan Army Arrests Al-Qaeda’s Global Operations Chief With U.S. Help

-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 
2011-09-06T06:53:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/pakistan-army-says-it-holds-al-qaeda-global-operations-chief-2-.html
Pakistan  said it arrested al-Qaeda’s
top leader for international operations with American help,
sounding a conciliatory tone on bilateral ties strained by the
U.S. killing of  Osama bin Laden  in May.  Pakistan’s  Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate  captured
Younis Al-Mauritani and al-Qaeda operatives Abdul Ghaffar al-
Shami and Messara al-Shami in the city of Quetta, the military’s
press office said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. The
arrests are part of “a strong, historic intelligence
relationship” between both countries, the statement said.  The announcement came two weeks after U.S. officials said
an American missile killed Atiyah Abd al-Rahman, who they said
became al-Qaeda’s deputy leader following the killing of bin
Laden by Navy Seals in Pakistan. The unilateral raid exacerbated
tensions, as Pakistan expelled more than 100 American military
personnel and the U.S. withheld $800 million in military aid.  The army described Al-Mauritani as “al-Qaeda commander for
external operations” who planned strikes at economic targets in
the U.S.  Europe  and  Australia  and had considered attacks on oil
pipelines, tankers and dams. He is more likely a member of a
committee charged with conducting such operations, according to
Bill Roggio, director of the U.S. monitoring group  Long War
Journal , citing American intelligence officials.  White House spokesman  Josh Earnest  praised the arrests,
calling them “an example of the longstanding partnership between
the U.S. and Pakistan in fighting terrorism, which has taken
many terrorists off the battlefield over the past decade.”  Rewards  The State Department’s Rewards for Justice program offered
$1 million for information on Abd al-Rahman’s whereabouts. It
does not name al-Mauritani  on its list  of the 40 top militants
for whom rewards are offered.  Among few earlier public references to al-Mauritani, the
German news magazine  Der Spiegel  last year cited sources it did
not name as saying he had met German Islamic militants in
Pakistan to discuss attacks on economic targets in Europe.  The statement stressed cooperation between U.S. and
Pakistan intelligence agencies, saying the “continue to work
together to enhance security of their respective nations.”  Admiral Mike Mullen, the chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs
of Staff, in July called ties between the two countries “at its
low point.” He has been among U.S. officials who have spoken
publicly about frustrations with the ISI, saying on April 20
that it still “has a longstanding relationship” with a Taliban
faction led by Jalaluddin Haqqani.  A recent Defense Department report called Haqqani “the most
significant threat” to U.S. forces in eastern  Afghanistan .  To contact the reporters on this story: Haris Anwar in Islamabad
at   hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 