-- 
Paltrow Sparks Pandemic, Knightley Goes Crazy in Venice Movies

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-09-05T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/paltrow-sparks-pandemic-damon-dodges-virus-knightley-goes-crazy-reviews.html
Gwyneth Paltrow  never looked more
gaunt.  The Oscar-winning actress is one of many stars with bit
parts in Steven Soderbergh’s “Contagion,” which premiered at
the Venice Film Festival. Her character picks up a deadly virus
in a Hong Kong bar, carries it home to  Minnesota , and sparks a
pandemic of Biblical proportions.  “I liked having a seizure, biting on a piece of Alka-
Seltzer, foaming at the mouth,” said Paltrow at the Venice news
conference, back to her glamorous self in straightened blond
hair and a peach-colored mini-dress.  During her brief time on screen, Paltrow delivers one of
the picture’s stronger performances. Another standout is her
spouse in the movie:  Matt Damon , who plays a thoughtful dad with
first-rate survival instincts.  It helps that their characters are well-written. The same
cannot be said for the rest of the cast: Laurence Fishburne, the
deputy head of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention;
 Kate Winslet , a workaholic doctor who risks her life fighting
the contagion; Jude Law, a whistle-blowing blogger with his own
agenda; and  Marion Cotillard , who plays the improbably named Dr.
Leonora Orantes, a World Health Organization official trying to
get to the disease’s roots.  These cookie-cutter figures act out shallow subplots in the
first half. Then, as the disease spreads, Soderbergh’s
filmmaking talents kick in: We see monkeys in labs, body bags,
mass graves, scientists in orange jumpsuits, and people clawing
for the vaccine. The sense of urgency is such that, as the
viewer, you feel a sudden urge to wash your hands.  Soderbergh, head shaved and in a natty suit, seemed
slightly blase in  Venice . He said he planned “a little
sabbatical” after shooting his next two films: one about a male
stripper, the other about entertainer Liberace.  Here’s hoping the director of “Sex, Lies and Videotape”
returns with the verve that led him, in 1989, to become the
Cannes Film Festival’s youngest-ever winner. Rating: **1/2.  Cronenberg Movie  Psychoanalysis for dummies is what David Cronenberg has in
store with his new movie, “A Dangerous Method.”  Starring  Michael Fassbender  and  Keira Knightley , and based
on real-life events, it’s the story of Carl Jung’s entanglement
with a young Russian patient (later one of the world’s first
women psychoanalysts), and his rivalry with the father of
psychoanalysis,  Sigmund Freud . The subject matter could not be
richer. Yet Cronenberg’s treatment of it is, sadly, skin deep.  Mental Help  At a good-humored festival news conference, the 68-year-old
director, hair white and spiky, joked that his actors were
“messes when I found them” and badly needed mental help.
Knightley, in a 1920s-style bob, confessed that as an actress
she was “obviously crazy” and “just drew on that.”  The movie starts off attractively, thanks to classy
cinematography from Peter Suschitzky. Knightley’s character
Sabina Spielrein has a spastic fit in a stagecoach on the way to
a Zurich hospital. There, she is greeted by the dashing young
Professor Jung, who lives in style thanks to his wealthy (and
heavily pregnant) wife.  Jung is also bored, and finds a raison d’etre in Sabine’s
ailments: childhood beatings and sexual abuse by her father,
self-hatred and a taste for corporal punishment. When she leaves
the door open to an affair, he walks right in.  Meanwhile, Jung constantly measures himself up against his
mentor, the Vienna-based Freud. He finds Freud’s sexual
explanations limiting. Every time the two of them meet, they
have a rhetorical tug-of-war.  Humor Doses  In filming the story, Cronenberg adopts the wrong tone. He
introduces heavy doses of humor (as he did at the news
conference), making it hard for the spectator to take the
characters, and the movie, seriously.  Freud, played by Viggo Mortensen, comes across as surly and
sarcastic. Knightley is admittedly serious, yet she never lets
us forget it’s Knightley we’re watching, systematically
conveying pain with flared nostrils and a quivering upper lip.
Even the outrageously talented Fassbender comes across as just
another weak-willed man succumbing to lust.  In short, “A Dangerous Method” is a missed opportunity.
The story was first written up as a play by Christopher Hampton,
who also scripted Cronenberg’s movie. Now that it’s out in the
open, hopefully someone else will come along and handle it
better. Rating: **.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this review:
Farah Nayeri in Venice at  farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 