-- 
PetroTrans of China Denies Workers in Convoy Attacked by Ethiopian Rebels

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-09-05T10:50:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/petrotrans-of-china-denies-workers-in-convoy-attacked-by-ethiopian-rebels.html
PetroTrans Co. , a Chinese oil-
exploration company, denied claims by Ethiopian rebels that a
military convoy escorting its workers in the restive Ogaden
region was attacked last week.  The Ogaden National Liberation Front’s forces were attacked
by the Ethiopian army on Aug. 30 after they “pushed back elite
troops from the Prime Minister’s Special Forces who were trying
to escort a Chinese team to Obole oil exploration,” the ONLF
said in an e-mailed statement on Sept. 1. The Chinese workers
were wearing military camouflage clothing, it said.  “PetroTrans is still mobilizing its personnel and equipment
so did not have any personnel in the region and did not have any
personnel traveling in a military convoy to the region,” Philip
Hirschler, the company’s legal adviser, said in an e-mailed
statement today. “PetroTrans is a commercial company and its
personnel wear civilian clothing.”  The ONLF has been fighting for self-determination in the
ethnic Somali region since 1984. In April 2007, the banned group
attacked an exploration site at Obole operated by  China ’s
Zhongyuan Petroleum Exploration Bureau, killing nine Chinese
workers and 65 Ethiopians.  Ethiopia’s Mines Ministry signed a deal with PetroTrans for
it to seek deposits and develop proven reserves in the region,
the state-owned Ethiopian News Agency said on July 22. Petronas
Nasional Bhd of  Malaysia  sold the assets in October.  The Ethiopian army suffered 25 “casualties” in the Aug. 30
attack, according to the statement. The rebel group said earlier
last month the deal between PetroTrans and the government would
“rob the Ogaden people of their natural resources.”  The workers who were wearing army camouflage appeared to be
of “Asiatic origin,” were travelling in unmarked vehicles and
looked like they were prospecting, ONLF spokesman Abdirahman
Mahdi said in a phone interview from Washington D.C. today.  “There is no basis for the ONLF claim,” Ethiopian
Communications Minister Bereket Simon said in a phone interview
from the capital,  Addis Ababa , today. “They want to appear in
the media so they will be taken seriously.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Davison  in Addis Ababa via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 