-- 
Peyton Manning Won’t Practice, Doubtful for Colts’ NFL Opener at Houston

-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-09-05T16:59:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/peyton-manning-won-t-practice-doubtful-for-colts-nfl-opener-at-houston.html
Peyton Manning  was told by doctors
not to practice because of slow progress in his rehabilitation
from offseason neck surgery, and the  Indianapolis Colts  said
their quarterback is doubtful for the season opener at Houston.  Manning, 35, a four-time National Football League Most
Valuable Player who agreed to a five-year, $90 million contract
in July, has started 227 consecutive games, including the
postseason. That’s the second-longest streak in NFL history
behind  Brett Favre .  Manning had surgery in May to repair a bulging disc in his
neck. He was cleared to practice on a limited basis on Aug. 29
before experiencing problems.  “During the last week, the rate of improvement in Peyton’s
rehabilitation process slowed,” the Colts said in a statement
posted today on their  website . “Over the weekend, Peyton
experienced soreness in his back. It was originally thought to
be a normal reaction to his rehabilitation regimen.”  When the soreness persisted, the Colts said, the team
ordered diagnostic tests and consulted with specialists who have
been involved in Manning’s case.  “As a result of the most recent development, the doctors
have decided that Peyton will not practice,” the team said in
the statement. “His participation therefore, in Sunday’s game
versus Houston will likely be doubtful.”  The Colts signed former New York Giants quarterback  Kerry Collins , 38, out of retirement on Aug. 24. The other quarterback
on the Colts’ active roster, Curtis Painter, has appeared in two
NFL games. Dan Orlovsky was waived Sept. 3.  “As of now Peyton continues to deal with a complicated
neurological recovery, the end date of which is unpredictable,”
the Colts said in today’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at +1-415-617-7193 or
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at +1-212-617-1262 or
 msillup@bloomberg.net  