-- 
Phone-Hack Lawyer Says Murdoch Career in Peril

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-09-06T08:33:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/phone-hacking-lawyer-lewis-says-hearing-could-end-james-murdoch-s-career.html
Mark Lewis , the lawyer representing
dozens of News of the World phone-hacking victims, said
testimony by former  News Corp. (NWSA)  executives to the U.K. Parliament
today may determine if James Murdoch lied about the scandal.  Statements by Tom Crone, an ex-legal manager at News
Corp.’s U.K. newspaper unit, will be particularly important
since he contradicted the July testimony by Murdoch, News
Corp.’s deputy chief operating officer, before the same
committee, Lewis said in a Bloomberg Television interview.  “The hearing could be damaging for James -- it could
effectively finish his career,” said Lewis, who negotiated the
first hacking settlement from News International in 2008 and now
represents more than 70 suspected victims.  At least fifteen people have been arrested since
revelations that the News of the World intercepted voice mails
for murdered schoolgirl Milly Dowler, whose family has hired
Lewis. Public outcry over the development in the five-year-old
scandal prompted News Corp. to shutter the tabloid and withdraw
a 7.8 billion-pound ($12.6 billion) takeover bid for  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   Politicians will need to “get to the bottom” of the
disparity between Crone’s and Murdoch’s version of events
surrounding News International’s 2008 settlement agreement with
hacking victim  Gordon Taylor , Lewis said. Murdoch said he wasn’t
told about an internal e-mail suggesting hacking may have been
more widespread than originally suspected. Crone told lawmakers
in a letter that Murdoch knew of the e-mail.  ‘A Lie’  “The story that’s being told by Tom Crone is seemingly
different than the story being told by James Murdoch,” Lewis
said. “One of them is a lie.”  Executives may also have to explain why News International
used private investigators to gather information about him and
other lawyers representing hacking victims, said Lewis, of
Taylor Hampton Solicitors Ltd. News Corp. has said no current
executives approved such action.  “If it’s true that News International has been hiring
investigators, a lot of questions about why it was done -- why
it was done so recently -- that will be something to ask  James
Murdoch  if he is called back,” said Niri Shan, the head of media
law at Taylor Wessing LLP in  London .  Colin Myler, editor of the tabloid until New York-based
News Corp. shut it in July, will also be questioned. He
challenged the accuracy of James Murdoch’s testimony that his
underlings were responsible for ethical lapses.  Jailed for Hacking  Lawmakers will also hear from Daniel Cloke, a former News
International human-resources director and Jon Chapman, formerly
head of legal affairs for the unit. They will be asked about the
dismissal of  Clive Goodman , the paper’s former royal reporter
who was jailed for hacking, and his subsequent claim others at
the paper were involved.  Lewis, who also represented Taylor, chief executive of the
Professional Footballers’ Association, obtained documents from
the police suggesting Goodman wasn’t the only News of the World
reporter aware of hacking. Crone advised  Colin Myler  and Murdoch
the company should settle.  The scandal has snowballed since 2007, when Goodman and
private investigator  Glenn Mulcaire  were jailed for hacking.
Police are probing the extent of phone and computer hacking by
journalists and illegal payments to officers, and Prime Minister
 David Cameron  announced a public inquiry into the practice.  A News Corp. spokeswoman and Crone declined to comment.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  