-- 
Pinera Weighs Tax Changes in Chile Amid Protests

-- B y   J a m e s   A t t w o o d
-- 
2011-09-05T15:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/pinera-weighs-tax-changes-in-chile-amid-protests-correct-.html
(Corrects spelling in first reference to Buffett.)  Chile ’s President Sebastian Pinera
is considering tax changes as the world’s top copper-producing
nation looks to balance the need to fund increased spending on
education and maintain a competitive investment climate.  “We are taking a look at the tax system,” Pinera said in
an interview last night with  Chilevision . “It’s an issue that’s
in analysis. It’s not resolved.”  Pinera has responded to months of student protests by
proposing an extra $4 billion over the next four to six years on
loans, grants and improved supervision, which Finance Minister
Felipe Larrain said doesn’t require tax increases. Student and
teachers’ unions are pushing for increased spending on education
and a greater role for the state.  Pinera, who introduced changes to mining royalties and
imposed a temporary corporate tax increase to finance rebuilding
work following an earthquake in March last year, said any
further reform would have to consider the state of the global
economy and the need to maintain Chile’s investment
competitiveness.  The Harvard University-trained billionaire investor
described as “reasonable” a call last month by  Warren Buffett 
for taxes on the U.S.’s wealthiest individuals to be raised.  The protests and labor strikes that have made Pinera the
least popular president since Chile restored democracy two
decades ago. Still, the economy expanded 8.4 percent in the
first half of the year, the fastest pace in 16 years.  GDP will expand 6.6 percent in 2011, according to
government estimates. More than half a million jobs have been
created since he took office, Pinera said.  While Chile isn’t immune to the increasing likelihood of a
global recession, the local economy is well positioned, he said.  Pinera’s approval rating slumped to 26 percent in a poll
last month by Santiago-based CEP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Attwood in Santiago at 
 Jattwood3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 