-- 
Poland to Leave Interest Rates Unchanged as Exports Slow Economic Growth

-- B y   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-09-05T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/poland-to-leave-interest-rates-unchanged-as-exports-slow-economy.html
Poland ’s central bank will probably
leave borrowing costs unchanged as lower demand for exports
slows economic growth and eases price pressures, a survey of
economists showed.  The  Narodowy Bank Polski  will keep the seven-day  interest
rate  at 4.5 percent, according to all 28 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. The decision will be announced after 12 p.m.
tomorrow in Warsaw.  Polish central bankers, who didn’t hold a rate meeting in
August, halted monetary tightening in July, relying on one
percentage point of rate increases between January and June to
tame price growth. Policy makers have said slowing economic
growth will help bring inflation to within the bank’s 2.5
percent target next year.  "The economic outlook has severely worsened since the last
rate meeting," said  Adam Antoniak , senior economist at Bank BPH
in Warsaw. "The Monetary Policy Council is likely to ease its
attitude toward a more neutral bias, while waiting for data to
see the impact of the global-market turmoil."  Investors are betting the central bank will lower interest
rates in the coming months. Six-month forward rate agreements
are trading 26 basis points below the three-month Warsaw
Interbank Offered Rate, suggesting a quarter-point cut for the
first time since June 2006. That compares with 61 basis points
above Wibor at the beginning of 2011.  The zloty traded at 4.219 per euro late yesterday in
Warsaw, compared with 4.193 Sept. 2. The yield on the
government’s five-year bond fell to 4.929 percent from 5.005
percent.  Manufacturing, Industry Slow  Economic growth in the euro area, which buys 55 percent of
Polish exports, slowed to 0.2 percent from the previous quarter
in the April-June period, the worst performance since the bloc’s
2009 recession. Poland’s economy grew 4.3 percent in the second
quarter, down from 4.4 percent in the first.  Polish manufacturing growth slowed in August to the second-
weakest since January 2010, adding to concern the European
Union’s largest eastern economy will slow in the coming months.
The purchasing managers’ index declined to 51.8 from 52.9 in
July as new export orders fell and industrial production
declined, surprising economists.  Industrial-output growth was 1.8 percent from a year
earlier in July, down from 2 percent in August and the slowest
in more than 1 1/2 years, missing economist forecasts for a
second month. Corporate-wage growth also slowed in July,
alleviating concern that rising salaries will spur inflation.  "There is ample evidence that the economy is slowing and
inflation pressures are easing," Morgan Stanley economists
including Pasquale Diana in  London  wrote in a Sept. 1 report.
"This warrants at least a change in tone" by the central bank,
"We think the full appreciation that growth has decelerated
materially and inflation has slowed will lead to rate cuts but
this is unlikely to happen before the first quarter of 2012."  Consumer prices rose 4.1 percent in July from a year
earlier, the slowest pace since February. Polish households
reduced their expectations for price growth in August, expecting
a 4.2 percent annual inflation rate over the next 12 months
compared with 4.7 percent in July, a central bank survey showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  