-- 
Polish Government Sustaining GDP Growth on Debt, Gilowska Says

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 
2011-09-05T11:58:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/polish-government-sustaining-gdp-growth-on-debt-gilowska-says.html
Poland ’s government has been
sustaining economic growth by “draining” the country’s
reserves and “pumping” borrowed money into the economy, policy
maker Zyta Gilowska said in an interview with the magazine
“ Uwazam, rze .”  The general government deficit, which includes the local
and central governments along with the social security and
health-care systems, soared to 7.9 percent of gross domestic
product last year from 3.9 percent in 2008, while public debt
rose to 752.2 billion zloty ($253.5 billion) through the end of
June from 570 billion zloty at the end of 2008.  The debt increased as the government “drained” reserves,
Gilowska said in an interview with the weekly magazine. This is
Poland’s “stimulus, a quiet program of pumping borrowed money
into the economy. The government is traipsing blithely through
the forest like Little Red Riding Hood.”  Eastern Europe’s export-led recovery from its worst slump
since the end of communism two decades ago is in peril as a
deepening debt crisis in the euro area and a cut in the U.S.
credit rating intensify threats to the global economy.  While Polish GDP grew 4.3 percent in the second quarter
from a year earlier, it will slow to 3.5 percent in the next
three months Warsaw-based Citi economists Piotr Kalisz and
Cezary Chrapek wrote in an e-mailed note on Aug. 31.  Consumer
spending  is also bound to slow further from its 3.5 percent pace
in the second quarter as the appreciation of the Swiss franc
against the zloty is pushing up repayment costs on loans taken
out in the Alpine currency, they said.  Poland’s official reserves fell to $106.7 billion at the
end of July from $112 billion in April, according to central
bank data released on Aug. 5.  ‘Coping’  “We’re coping reasonably well with the crisis thanks to
the talents, toughness and enterprise of individual Poles. And
also thanks to the precautions taken by the previous
government,” Gilowska said in the interview. “What’s bad has
been the government’s pandering to special interests and the
ballooning public debt. We’ve sustained growth by taking bigger
and bigger doses of steroids. Now we have a mountain of debt.”  With an election approaching on Oct. 9, Gilowska declared
her support last week for Jaroslaw Kaczynski, leader of the
largest opposition party Law & Justice, and twin brother of late
President Kaczynski, who died in an April 10 plane crash. She
was nominated by  Lech Kaczynski  to the Monetary Council last
year and served as Finance Minister in the cabinet led by
Jaroslaw Kaczynski in 2007.  According to Poland’s central bank law, members of the
council are forbidden from “undertaking public activities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  