-- 
Polish Stocks Tumble as Banks Decline on Europe Debt Concern

-- B y   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i
-- 
2011-09-05T16:06:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/polish-stocks-tumble-as-banks-decline-on-europe-debt-concern.html
Poland ’s benchmark stock index fell
for a third day as banks and commodity producers tumbled on
concern that  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis will worsen.  The WIG20 Index dropped 3.5 percent to 2,276.52 in Warsaw.
PKO Bank Polski SA, the country’s largest lender, declined to
the lowest level since October 2009 as the zloty extended its
longest losing streak against the Swiss franc in a month,
fueling speculation lenders in Poland will face defaults on
foreign-currency mortgages. Oil refiner  Grupa Lotos SA (LTS)  sank to
the lowest in 18 months as crude-oil prices declined.  Stocks in Europe dropped after an election loss for German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s party spurred concern that support
for bailing out Europe’s indebted nations may fade.  “The overall sentiment is bearish and there’s lots of
volatility and nervousness because of concerns about the
situation in Europe,” Artur Zareba, vice president of equity
sales at Espirito Santo Investment in Warsaw, said by phone.  PKO retreated 4.8 percent to 32.9 zloty.  Getin Holding SA (GTN) ,
the financial-services group controlled by billionaire Leszek
Czarnecki, lost 6.4 percent to 8.1 zloty and  BRE Bank SA (BRE) , a unit
of Commerzbank AG, fell 5.3 percent to 234 zloty.  The zloty declined for a fifth day against the Swiss franc,
losing as much as 1.6 percent, making it harder for homeowners
to pay back their foreign-currency mortgages. Franc-denominated
mortgages totaled 162.2 billion zloty ($55 billion) in July,
accounting for 54 percent of all home loans in Poland, according
to the country’s financial regulator.  Oil, Orlen  PKN Orlen SA, Poland’s biggest oil company, retreated for a
third day, declining 6.1 percent to 35.7 zloty and Lotos, the
second-largest refiner, sank 7.4 percent to 26.4 zloty. Oil
declined as investors speculated that signs the Chinese and U.S.
economies are weakening indicate fuel demand will falter in the
world’s biggest crude-consuming nations.  KGHM Polska Miedz SA (KGH) , the copper producer with the biggest
European mine output, fell 1.2 percent to 163 zloty, closing at
the lowest level in more than a week as the price of the metal
declined.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pawel Kozlowski in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  