-- 
Polish Credit-Default Swaps Have Hit ‘Quite Absurd’ Level, Radziwill Says

-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 
2011-09-05T16:12:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/polish-credit-default-swaps-have-hit-quite-absurd-level-radziwill-says.html
The cost to insure  Poland ’s
government debt against non-payment is at a “quite absurd”
level, according to Deputy Finance Minister  Dominik Radziwill .  Poland’s five-year credit-default swaps, which increase as
the perception of the country’s creditworthiness deteriorates,
widened last month to 236 basis points, the highest level since
April 2009. The contracts rose 67 basis points in the past 12
months, the biggest increase among 20 emerging-market economies
tracked by Bloomberg.  “The level of our CDS is probably quite absurd right
now,” as they are higher than almost all countries in Asia and
 Latin America , Radziwill said in an interview from his Warsaw
office on Sept. 2. “The CDS prices don’t really tell you much
currently. In my opinion there is some dysfunction of this
market.”  The country’s default swaps traded six basis points higher
at 233 basis points today, according to data provider CMA. The
contracts on  Russia , which is rated two steps below Poland at
Baa1 by Moody’s Investors Service, stood at 202 basis points.
Brazil default swaps, with a Baa2 rating at Moody’s, traded at
153 basis points.  Poland’s bonds rallied in August pushing the yield on five-
year notes to the steepest monthly drop in 17 on bets the
central bank may cut  interest rates  and as the government
financed almost all of this year’s borrowing needs. The yield
declined to 4.95 percent as of 5:33 p.m. in Warsaw, the lowest
since January 2009, according to bond indexes compiled by
Bloomberg.  ‘Sizable’ Inflows  Foreign investors in August resumed their buying of Polish
government debt after they withdrew the most money from the
market since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
2008. Net purchases of Polish government debt in August exceeded
net sales of the securities in July and the market saw a
“sizable” fund inflows from  Asia  and  Japan , Radziwill said.  International investors reduced their holdings by 4.5
billion zloty ($1.5 billion) in July, the most since September
2008, according to Finance Ministry’s  website  and data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “The outflow we saw in July was technical in nature and
the situation was drastically different in August,” Radziwill
said. “I don’t expect a sudden exit of foreign investors from
our market.”  International investors more than doubled their holdings of
Polish Treasury debt to 151 billion zloty in July of this year
from 72.1 billion zloty the same month in 2009 to become the
biggest investors on the market ahead of local pension funds and
banks, according to the ministry’s website.  ‘Similar’ Borrowing  The  Finance Ministry  will begin raising cash for next
year’s debt needs mostly at monthly switching auctions, where
debt about to come due is swapped for bonds with longer
maturities, according to Radziwill. It may also cancel a regular
sale of bonds in December, he said.  Borrowing needs in 2012 may be “similar” to this year’s
level, Radziwill said. Poland may borrow 10 billion zloty less
than the planned 154.8 billion zloty this year,  Piotr Marczak ,
head of the ministry’s public debt department, said on July 29.  Poland may return to international bond markets in the
fourth quarter for this year’s last transaction and plans to
raise around 4.5 billion euro ($6.4 billion) from foreign debt
sales in 2012, according to Radziwill. The sales will include
bonds in euros, dollars, yen and the Swiss franc starting as
early as the first quarter, he said.  “It’s a standard to issue more at the start of the year,”
Radziwill said. “It’s an open question whether we will see some
serious turmoil in the euro zone, which looks like a potential
risk factor. If not, then I would assume we will carry out a
foreign issue in the first quarter.”  The government has the equivalent of 118.8 billion zloty of
local- and foreign-currency denominated bonds coming due next
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That includes a
750 million-euro bond maturing in March and 24.5 billion zloty
of bonds in the first quarter, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  