-- 
Qaddafi Backers Cling to Besieged Town Amid Fear of Execution, Rebels Say

-- B y   C h r i s   S t e p h e n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-09-05T12:56:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/qaddafi-backers-cling-to-besieged-town-amid-fear-of-execution-rebels-say.html
A core group of soldiers and
officials loyal to Muammar Qaddafi refuse to surrender Bani
Walid because they fear execution for their part in his
government’s crimes, said the rebel fighters besieging the town.  Opposition units based in Misrata said they cut the main
highways out of Bani Walid, 145 kilometers (90 miles) southeast
of the capital, Tripoli, as talks broke down yesterday between
the National Transitional Council and elders from the town’s
Warfalla tribe,  Libya ’s largest. The tribesmen want a peaceful
handover to the rebels, yet say they’re being held hostage by
the Qaddafi supporters, according to the fighters.  “Qaddafi officials killed a lot of people, so these guys
are afraid,” said Ayman Elmojarrush, part of the rebels’ El
Hasm brigade. They expect to be convicted if trials are held,
according to Libyan war-crimes investigator Khalid Alwafi, who
said more than 100 Qaddafi-era officials are being investigated.  Since rebels took Tripoli late last month, the transitional
authorities have been trying to restore stability, consolidate
military gains and capture Qaddafi. More than six months of
fighting to end the Libyan leader’s 42-year rule have reduced
oil production and disrupted power supplies in the country with
 Africa ’s largest crude reserves.  Loyalist Towns  Negotiations also reached an impasse between the rebels and
tribesmen for the peaceful handover of the loyalist-held towns
of Sabha, Jaffra and Sirte, Qaddafi’s hometown. Tribal elders in
the towns say they are also being held hostage by former
officials. The rebel council says it’s focusing on those towns
because Qaddafi may be hiding in one of them.  There is little sympathy for Bani Walid from the Misrata-
based rebels, who say the town sided with Qaddafi throughout the
six-month conflict and that its tribesmen killed Ramadan Swehli,
who led a rebellion against the Italian occupation of Libya that
began in the early 1900s.  The NTC’s head, Mustafa Abdul Jalil, has given Sirte until
Sept. 10 to cease resistance or face attack. Although no
deadline applies to other holdout towns, the rebels say they
want to give talks a chance.  “Even if we don’t want to help them, we want to help
ourselves,” said Elmojarrush. “We lost too many. We don’t want
to lose one more martyr.”  NATO Tactics  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization pursued an air
campaign it began in March, pounding targets in and around
Sirte.  NATO shifted its attacks away from Tripoli Aug. 24,
following the rebel takeover of the city, to focus daily raids
on Sirte, 450 kilometers to the southeast, and the pro-Qaddafi
garrisons around it. The alliance said 188 targets have been
destroyed in the latest airstrikes, including eight tanks and 72
armed vehicles.  The damage inflicted on Qaddafi’s military by NATO is seen
in the desert 15 kilometers north of Bani Walid, where the
abandoned Bir Dugan airbase is now a mass of shattered hangars
and bunkers. The watchtowers are empty and the area littered
with abandoned armored personnel carriers and the wreckage of a
gold and white transport aircraft torn in half by NATO strikes.  Rebels say loyalist units at the base fled without a fight
over the weekend, leaving their uniforms behind on the floor of
a hangar. The desertion is proof, the rebels say, that the
soldiers ran not just from Bir Dugan but from the war itself.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Stephen  in Misrata at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 