-- 
Rand Weakens as Europe Debt Concern Saps Demand for Risky Assets

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-09-05T14:09:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/rand-weakens-as-europe-debt-concern-saps-demand-for-risky-assets.html
South Africa ’s rand declined to its
lowest in a week against the dollar as concern Europe’s debt
crisis will worsen and signs the global economy is slowing
sapped demand for riskier, emerging-market assets. Bonds gained.  The rand retreated as much as 1 percent to 7.1287, its
weakest level since Aug. 29, and traded 0.7 percent down at
7.1069 as of 3:46 p.m. in Johannesburg. The currency of  Africa ’s
biggest economy gained 0.1 percent to 10.0199 per euro.  Emerging-market stocks fell for a second day, commodity
prices tumbled and gold rose to the highest in almost two weeks
after an election loss for  Germany ’s ruling party stoked concern
support is fading for bailouts of  Europe ’s indebted states. A
services-industry index in  China , the biggest buyer of South
African raw materials, sank to a record low, dimming prospects
for the nation’s exports. South Africa’s benchmark stock index
dropped for a second day, led by mining companies including BHP
Billiton Ltd. and Anglo American Plc.  “Participants are flocking to safe-haven assets such as
the Swiss franc, gold and the U.S. bond market, which implies
that rand participants are once again vulnerable to a risk-off
trading environment,” Standard Bank Group Ltd. analysts led by
Johannesburg-based Michael Keenan wrote in a research note.  Bonds gained on expectations slowing growth will persuade
the central bank to cut its benchmark  interest rate  even as
consumer prices rise. The 6.75 percent securities due 2021
climbed 68 cents to 94.17 rand, driving the yield down 11 basis
points, or 0.11 percentage point, to 7.62 percent, the lowest on
a closing basis in two weeks.  Growth, Rates  South Africa’s economy expanded an annualized 1.3 percent
in the second quarter, its slowest pace in almost two years,
Statistics South Africa said on Aug. 30. The  Reserve Bank  will
act “appropriately” to an economic slowdown, Governor Gill
Marcus said on Aug. 23.  Forward-rate agreements starting in March dropped one basis
point today to 5.17 percent, the lowest in at least 10 years,
according to prices on Bloomberg. The contracts are pricing in
an 86 percent probability of a rate cut by March 2012, Tradition
Analytics strategists led by Johannesburg-based Quinten Bertenshaw wrote in a research note.  Falling bond yields are “being driven by bearish growth
sentiment and not a result of spiking volatility or risk
aversion,” the Tradition analysts said. “This will very likely
keep the bid on domestic bonds” and boost demand for longer-
dated notes, they added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  