-- 
RBS Leads European Banks Lower After U.S. Mortgage Lawsuit

-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 
2011-09-05T15:49:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/rbs-leads-european-banks-lower-on-funding-concern-u-s-mortgage-lawsuit.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  led
European banks lower, dropping the most in more than two years
after 17 lenders were sued by the U.S. over the sale of
mortgage-backed securities and on investor concern over
interbank lending.  RBS, Britain’s biggest government-owned lender, fell 12
percent to 21.78 pence in London, the sharpest decline since May
2009. Other European lenders also fell including  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,
down 6.7 percent to 154.15 pence and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  retreated
7.5 percent to 23.82 euros.  “Among the U.K. banks, RBS has the highest amount of
securities under investigation by a considerable order of
magnitude,” said  Simon Maughan , head of sales and distribution
at MF Global Ltd. in London. RBS sold the most among the
European banks, $30.4 billion, or 68 of 179 securities in that
region covered in the lawsuit, according to Bloomberg
Industries.  On Sept. 2, Barclays and Deutsche Bank were among European,
Asian and U.S. banks sued by the U.S. Federal Housing Finance
Agency to recoup $196 billion spent on mortgage-backed
securities bought by  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac . The Bloomberg
Europe Banks and Financial Services Index fell 5.6 percent.  “This is clearly negative news for all involved and the
banks will likely have to take further provisions and will
continue to suffer further reputational damage,” Mediobanca
Securities said in a note to clients today.  Defend ‘Vigorously’  The FHFA lawsuit filed against RBS “details significant
differences between the bank’s disclosed assumptions for loan-
to-value, owner occupancy and stated income,” Bloomberg
Industries wrote in a note today.  For one of RBS’s mortgage-backed security deals, the
product’s prospectus said no loans exceeded the value of the
property on which they were secured, according the filing. The
 FHFA said  22 percent of loans did so. RBS on Sept. 3 said it
would “vigorously” defend itself against the lawsuit.  Meanwhile, the premium European banks pay to borrow in
dollars for three months through the swaps markets increased to
the most since December 2008, a sign lenders may be struggling
to get funding.  “This is really about fears about liquidity and solvency
now,” said Andrew Lim, a banking analyst at Espirito Santo
Investment Bank in  London . “U.S. money markets are lending less
for a second month to European banks, particularly French banks.
Banks are having to come back to the market to complete their
2011 borrowing programs and if they fail in that respect that’s
going to create a lot of risk.”  Balance Sheet Improvement  The cost of converting euro-based payments into dollars, as
measured by the three-month cross-currency basis swap, fell 4.8
basis points to 95 basis points below the euro interbank offered
rate, or Euribor, as of 9:24 a.m. in London, indicating a higher
premium to buy the dollar, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  For U.K. banks, “given balance sheet improvement and
liquidity, solvency is not seen as a risk,” Bank of America
Corp. analysts led by  Michael Helsby  in London wrote in a note
to investors today. “The U.K. is well placed in an
international perspective, which should provide differentiation
for U.K. banks.”  On Sept. 12, when Oxford University academic and Chairman
of the government-appointed Independent Commission on Banking
John Vickers presents his findings on how the country’s banks
should be structured to protect depositors and the government
from the consequences of a bank failure.  Banks won’t be compelled to implement proposals from the
ICB until 2015 at the earliest, a person with knowledge of the
discussions said on Sept. 1. The date is the soonest possible
for the commission’s recommendations, said the person, who
declined to be identified because the talks are private.
Introducing the new rules as late as 2018 has also been
discussed, the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  