-- 
Treasuries Sentiment Index Climbs to 2011 High on Bets Fed Will Buy Debt

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-09-05T03:47:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/treasuries-sentiment-index-climbs-to-2011-high-on-bets-fed-will-buy-debt.html
Investor sentiment on Treasures rose
to the highest level in 2011, a weekly survey showed, as traders
bet the  Federal Reserve  will announce plans to reduce long-term
yields when officials meet this month.  Ried Thunberg ICAP Inc.’s index gauging the outlook for
Treasuries through Dec. 31 rose to 47 in the seven days ended
Sept. 2 from 46 a week before. A reading less than 50 still
indicates investors expect yields to rise, according to the New
Jersey-based unit of the world’s largest interdealer broker.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  Barclays Capital  Inc., Deutsche
Bank Securities Inc. and Pacific Investment Management Co. are
among those forecasting the Fed will embark on a plan to buy
long-term debt when policy makers convene on Sept. 20 for a two-
day meeting. A government report that showed employers stopped
hiring in August raises the odds the Fed will bring down
borrowing costs to support the economy, the companies said.  “They will extend the duration of their holdings to get
long-term yields to decline,” said Hiromasa Nakamura, a senior
investor at Mizuho Asset Management Co. in  Tokyo , which oversees
the equivalent of $39 billion and is a unit of  Japan ’s second-
largest bank by assets. “The  U.S. economy  is very fragile.”  The Fed will sell shorter-maturity Treasuries and use the
proceeds to buy long-term U.S. debt, the companies predict.  Record Low Yield  Ten-year yields, benchmarks for mortgage rates and
corporate borrowing, fell to 1.98 percent on Sept. 2,
approaching the record low of 1.97 percent set Aug. 18.
Treasuries were closed today for the U.S. Labor Day holiday.  The yield will slide to 1.8 percent by year-end, said
Nakamura, who correctly predicted this year’s bond rally.  A Bloomberg survey of banks and securities companies
projects the figure will rise to 2.69 percent by Dec. 31, with
the most recent forecasts given the heaviest weightings.  Treasuries surged on Sept. 2 after the Labor Department
said employment in the U.S. stagnated in August and the jobless
rate held at 9.1 percent.  “The report underscored the view that the recovery is
lacking momentum and will put further pressure on the Fed and
the Administration to respond,” according to Ried Thunberg.  President  Barack Obama  is scheduled to outline his plans to
spur the economy in a Sept. 8 address to Congress.  “It seems likely that the Fed will announce additional
monetary measures at the September meeting,”  Ajay Rajadhyaksha 
and  Dean Maki , New York-based analysts at Barclays Capital,
wrote in their fixed-income outlook for tomorrow.  Extending Duration  The most likely plan would be for the Fed to sell shorter-
maturity assets and purchase longer tenors, Joseph A. LaVorgna,
Carl J. Riccadonna and Brett Ryan, economists at Deutsche Bank
in  New York , also said in a report dated Sept. 2.  “The size of the Fed’s balance sheet will remain unchanged,
but presumably longer-term  interest rates  would fall,” the
economists wrote.  Goldman Sachs and RBC Capital Markets LLC issued similar
outlooks on Sept. 2. The four companies are all among the 20
primary dealers, those firms authorized to trade directly with
the central bank.  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., said Sept. 2 that the Fed
will probably exchange $500 billion of Treasuries due in one to
three years for securities maturing in five to 10 years.  Gross, who is based in Newport Beach, California, is
favoring  government bonds  due in more than five years, he said
in an interview with Ken Prewitt and  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg
Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  The Fed purchased $2.3 trillion of debt since 2008 in two
previous rounds of so-called quantitative easing, or QE, to
drive rates lower and help spur growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  