-- 
Reinsurance Executives Say Prices Must Rise as Claims Soar, ‘Fat Is Gone’

-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l   a n d   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-09-06T12:52:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/reinsurance-executives-say-prices-must-rise-as-claims-soar-fat-is-gone-.html
Executives from reinsurers including
Swiss Re and Allianz Re say prices for catastrophe coverage
should rise next year after disasters from  New Zealand  to  Japan 
drove up claims and low interest rates hurt investment returns.  “The fat is gone and now you really need to make your
money as an underwriter,” said Brian Gray, the chief
underwriting officer at Swiss Re, at a roundtable of reinsurance
executives hosted by Bloomberg News in Zurich. “The biggest
challenge for the industry is the interest-rate shock, and that
has not got the same kind of attention as natural
catastrophes.”  The earthquake and tsunami that struck Japan in March were
among events that caused record insured losses of $70 billion in
the first half of the year, according to  Guy Carpenter  & Co.,
the reinsurance brokerage of Marsh & McLennan Cos. At the same
time, low  interest rates  are crimping investment returns, which
typically provide a buffer for earnings when claims rise. Yields
on benchmark 10-year German  government bonds  fell below 2
percent yesterday for the first time.  Reinsurers and their customers, insurers such as Axa SA,
will begin negotiations for 2012 contracts when they meet in
 Monte Carlo  starting Sept. 10. They’ll convene again in the
German town of Baden-Baden in October to continue talks.
Insurers buy reinsurance to cushion the effect of costly
disasters.  ‘Better Profitability’  Reinsurance rates declined in four of the last five years,
according to the  Guy Carpenter World Property Catastrophe Rate
on Line Index , which tracks prices on a worldwide basis. During
that period, the industry escaped natural disasters on the scale
of  Hurricane Katrina , which flooded  New Orleans  and caused $62.2
billion of insured losses in 2005.  “The underlying issue is that the industry needs better
profitability,” said Clemens von Weichs, chief executive
officer of Allianz Re, the reinsurance unit of Munich-based
Allianz SE, Europe’s biggest insurer. “The extremely low market
capitalization of our industry at the moment signals that
investors think we don’t earn enough on capital provided.”  Damages from the events in Japan, an earthquake in New
Zealand, floods in  Australia  and other catastrophes led to a
first-half loss of 211 million euros ($298 million) at  Munich
Re , the world’s biggest reinsurer, and a 70 percent plunge in
net income to $295 million at Zurich-based Swiss Re, the second
largest.  Stable Rates  Munich Re shares dropped 26 percent this year, and Swiss Re
slid 20 percent, compared with a 21 percent decline in the 28-
company Bloomberg  Europe  500 Insurance Index.  Some industry forecasters say rates are unlikely to
increase much, if at all. Slowing economic growth in the world’s
largest economies will probably reduce demand for primary
insurance, making it less likely that reinsurers will be able to
raise rates, said Chris Waterman, head of insurance ratings for
Europe, the  Middle East  and  Africa  at  Fitch Ratings . Reinsurers’
ability to boost rates will depend on the level of catastrophe-
related losses in the rest of this year, he said.  Irene, which made landfall Aug. 27 as a Category 1
hurricane in  North Carolina  before striking  New York  the next
day as a tropical storm, may result in insured damages of $2.6
billion, less than initial estimates, according to Kinetic
Analysis Corp., a firm that predicts the effects of disasters.
The Atlantic hurricane season runs from June through the end of
November.  ‘Modest Increase’  “The first part of the year was very active with natural
catastrophes,” said Jacopo D’Antonio, president and chief
underwriting officer at Aspen Re Europe. “At the same time, the
low-interest-rate environment seems to continue. We and our
clients have to realize we have to end this denial of price
adequacy.”  Munich Re and Swiss Re typically renew about two-thirds of
their annual property and casualty contracts in January, and the
remainder in April and July. The renewals on April 1 focus on
the Asia-Pacific region. Both reinsurers have said that rates
will have to climb as a result this year’s disaster bill.  “There is a much better opportunity this year to make our
point that we need price increases,” said Karl Mayr, CEO and
president of the European reinsurance unit of Bermuda-based  Axis
Capital Holdings Ltd. (AXS)  “It’s a modest increase that we can get
and that we will get in large parts of the business in the
renewals in January.”  ‘Not Adequate’  “For January, my expectation would be a bottom out and
slow start but that there would be an agreement that we won’t
see double digits,” said Peter Schmidt, head of European
reinsurance at  Catlin Group Ltd. (CGL)   In 2008, writedowns on equity investments and losses
related to the financial crisis hurt earnings at reinsurers
worldwide. The firms were able to use to use those losses as an
argument to increase prices in the January 2009 renewals. Rates
declined again in the following two years, mostly because of an
absence of major natural catastrophes.  “Prices are not adequate anymore,” said Hans-Joachim Guenther, chief underwriting officer and head of reinsurance for
Europe and  Asia  at Bermuda-based Endurance Specialty Holdings,
Ltd. “I would expect the turning point to happen. However, it
is a very softish growth in pricing, so it’s at an early stage,
but at least it goes in the right direction.”  Swiss Re’s Gray agrees. “The accumulated pressure is
likely to turn the sporadic increases we’ve seen so far into a
much broader, if modest, upswing over the next 18 months,
including January.”  Moody’s Investors Service today changed its outlook on the
reinsurance industry to “stable” from “negative,” saying
that catastrophe losses should push rates higher.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net ;
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  