-- 
Reliance Power to Buy First Solar Panels for U.S.-Backed Project

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-09-05T02:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/reliance-power-to-buy-first-solar-panels-for-u-s-backed-project.html
Indian billionaire Anil Ambani-
controlled  Reliance Power Ltd. (RPWR)  will buy solar panels from  First
Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the world’s second-biggest maker of the equipment by
sales, for a 100-megawatt project backed by U.S. funding.  The U.S. Export-Import Bank approved an $84.3 million
direct loan on Aug. 25 to Reliance Power’s Dahanu Solar Power
Pvt. unit to purchase First Solar panels for the first 40
megawatts of the project, the Washington-based agency said in an
e-mail to Bloomberg News in response to questions.  Reliance Power plans to eventually expand the project in
Jaisalmer in Rajasthan state to 100 megawatts using thin-film
photovoltaic panels, according to a  document  submitted by the
Dahanu unit to the  United Nations  seeking to obtain carbon
credits for the solar farm. Reliance Power confirmed the Ex-Im
loan in an e-mail, declining to provide further details.  The thin-film technology selected by Reliance Power is
cheaper than traditional silicon-based panels and is also exempt
from Indian restrictions on solar imports. Thin-film accounted
for 12 percent of global solar-panel production in 2010 and is
backed by manufacturers including  General Electric Co. (GE) , Sharp
Corp., and First Solar, the world’s biggest, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Ex-Im Bank said the  interest rate  for Reliance Power’s
16.5-year loan will be fixed at the time of the first
disbursement. The agency calculates its commercial interest
reference rates monthly based on the U.S. Treasury bond rate.  As of Aug. 15, the cost of borrowing for a renewable energy
project was  3.96 percent , according to Ex-Im’s website. In
 India , where the central bank has boosted borrowing costs 11
times since March 2010, the funding cost of capital for clean-
energy plants is estimated at 13.3 percent by the central
electricity regulator that sets rates paid for power.  The Dahanu unit has signed a 25-year contract to sell power
from the first 40 megawatts to  Reliance Infrastructure Ltd. (RELI) ,
another group company, at a rate of 14.95 rupees (33 cents) per
kilowatt-hour, according to the UN submission. The plant will be
located in Lawan Village in Jaisalmer district, it said.  The Mumbai-based company has also won a license to build a
separate 100-megawatt solar-thermal plant in Bikaner, Rajasthan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  