-- 
Roche to Pay Evotec $10 Million for Right to Experimental Alzheimer’s Drug

-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 
2011-09-05T19:51:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/roche-to-pay-evotec-10-million-for-right-to-experimental-alzheimer-s-drug.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG)  will pay  Evotec AG (EVT) 
$10 million for the right to develop Evotec’s EVT 302 compound
for Alzheimer’s disease.  Evotec may receive as much as another $820 million if
development and sales goals are met, as well as double-digit
royalties, the Hamburg-based company said in a statement today.
Basel, Switzerland-based Roche will pay for clinical
development, manufacturing and commercialization, Evotec said.  The compound targets monoamine oxidase type B, or MAO-B, an
enzyme that breaks down dopamine in the brain and contributes to
the production of free radicals, which may contribute to the
spread of the disease, Evotec said.  “We have a disease out there which pharma has been been
trying for decades to understand and so far it has not figured
it out,” Werner Lanthaler, chief executive officer of Evotec,
said in a phone interview today.  It would have cost Evotec “hundreds of millions of euros”
to conduct clinical trials, Lanthaler said. Partnering with
Roche made sense because the compound may one day be used in
combination with other treatments developed by Roche to attack
the disease, he said.  “We are wise not to go into this alone because it would be
impossible as a small biotech,” he said.  Alzheimer’s affects about 35 million patients worldwide and
the cause hasn’t been identified. Lanthaler said a combination
of drugs may be needed to slow or stop the disease, where
protein plaques appear in the brain and lead to the death of
brain cells.  The compound had been licensed to Evotec by Roche in 2006
and was tested unsuccessfully in smoking cessation.  Evotec raised its revenue forecast. It now expects 77
million euros ($108.5 million) to 79 million euros, compared
with 70 million euros to 72 million euros previously and targets
liquidity at year-end of more than 60 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in  Frankfurt  at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 