-- 
Storm Soaks U.S. Gulf Coast States as Katia Stirs Up Surf

-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-09-05T17:22:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/tropical-storm-lee-pours-rain-on-gulf-coast-heads-north-4-.html
Lee weakened to a depression from a
tropical storm after making landfall and soaking  Louisiana  and
much of the Gulf Coast. Flooding is expected to move into the
Tennessee Valley, the Appalachian mountains and New England.  Lee was about 40 miles (65 kilometers) north-northeast of
New Orleans, with remnants of the storm moving east-northeast at
14 miles per hour, the National Hurricane Center said in an
 advisory . Winds have lost strength and are below tropical-storm
force in the  Gulf of Mexico , which accounts for 27 percent of
U.S. oil output and 6.5 percent of natural gas production.  “Flash flooding is the biggest threat with Lee, and will
remain the big story into this week,” Andy Mussoline, a
meteorologist with AccuWeather.com Inc. in State College,
 Pennsylvania , said in a phone interview yesterday. High pressure
expected to form over the U.S. Northeast may deflect both Lee
and Hurricane Katia, where East Coast storm surf is developing,
from areas flooded a week ago by Hurricane Irene.  As Lee moves slowly across Louisiana it will continue to
dump rain, with accumulations of as much as 20 inches (51
centimeters) in some areas of Mississippi today, meteorologists
said. At least 10.4 inches had fallen in Pascagoula,
Mississippi, the National Weather Service said.  Entergy Corp. (ETR) , owner of Louisiana’s largest utility,
battled rain and wind after restoring electricity to all but
about 8,930 of the 38,000 homes and businesses that lost it
Sept. 3 in Louisiana,  Texas , Mississippi and Arkansas, Philip Allison, a spokesman for New Orleans-based Entergy, said in an
interview yesterday. The number of outages will fluctuate
depending on local conditions, the company said.  Drought Woes Ease  Lee eased Louisiana’s worst drought since 1902, according
to the National Climatic Data Center. Rainfall through July was
11 inches lower than average although August precipitation was
higher than normal, the center said. Most rain missed Texas,
where the driest year on record continues.  The  Storm Prediction Center  said eight tornadoes were
reported to have touched down in Louisiana, Mississippi,  Alabama 
and the  Florida Panhandle  on Sept. 3. Twisters in Sumrall,
Mississippi, and Crystal Lake,  Florida , suffered no damage to
structures.  About 60 percent of Gulf oil production and 44 percent of
gas output was shut by the storm, according to the Bureau of
Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement. That
equates to about 843,223 barrels of oil and 2.3 billion cubic
feet of gas, the bureau said on its  website .  Oil Workers Return  Lee may keep some offshore oil workers ashore until
tomorrow, said Mike Hurst, chief pilot of  PHI Inc. (PHII)  in Lafayette,
Louisiana. The company is the largest provider of helicopters to
Gulf oil producers.  “Weather may permit flying to some oil and gas platforms
near the coast in the western Gulf of Mexico,” Hurst said.  Crude oil in New York fell as much as 3.3 percent, or
$2.81, to $83.64 a barrel today after some  oil companies  resumed
production and returned staff to Gulf facilities.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  said it began returning some workers
to its facilities in the western Gulf. The company evacuated 858
workers ahead of the storm.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the largest U.S. oil company, is
returning staff to some offshore platforms and has begun to
restore some production, spokesman David Eglinton said.  Production resumed at  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) ’s Nansen,
Boomvang and Gunnison platforms, the operator said on its
website. Its Constitution, Marco Polo, Independence Hub, Neptune
and Red Hawk installations will be staffed and started as soon
as possible, The Woodlands, Texas-based Anadarko said.  Hurricane Katia Intensifies  Parts of the East Coast are still drying from Hurricane
Irene, which made landfall on Aug. 27. It cut a path of
destruction from  North Carolina  to  Maine , leaving 45 people dead
and 6.69 million homes and businesses without power.  Lee’s remnants may cause flooding from the Gulf Coast
states to the southern Appalachian mountains later tomorrow and
into New England, the NHC said today.  Hurricane Katia strengthened over open water in the
Atlantic, according to an NHC  advisory  at 11 a.m.  New York  time.
The system, a Category 2 hurricane with maximum sustained winds
of 110 mph, was about 540 miles south of Bermuda traveling
northwest at 13 mph.  Katia may strengthen into a “major hurricane” with winds
of at least 111 mph today though the NHC said it’s no threat to
land as it churns over waters on a path expected to take it
midway between the U.S. Eastern Seaboard and Bermuda. It warned
of dangerous surf conditions developing along most of the East
Coast and Bermuda.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  