-- 
RTS Futures Decline on Global Economy Concern: Russia Overnight

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-09-06T05:29:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/rts-futures-decline-on-global-economy-concern-russia-overnight.html
Russia ’s RTS stock-index futures
dropped, indicating shares in Moscow may fall for a third
trading day, amid concern slowing growth in the U.S. and  China 
and Europe’s debt woes will spark a global recession.  Futures on the dollar-denominated index expiring in
September declined 0.5 percent to 158,260 yesterday, the lowest
close in more than a week. Moscow’s 30-stock  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  dropped
1.5 percent to 1,492.83, as Urals crude, the country’s chief
export oil blend, tumbled the most in four weeks. The gauge may
slide 1 percent at the start of trading today, according to  Alfa
Bank . Asian stocks and U.S. futures fell.  Futures contracts on OAO Gazprom, the world’s largest gas
producer, slipped 0.2 percent and those for OAO  Uralkali (URKA) ,
Russia’s biggest potash producer, dropped 0.6 percent. United
Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer, sank 2.1
percent in Hong Kong trading.  A government report showing U.S. payrolls unexpectedly
stagnated in August has spurred speculation the  Federal Reserve 
will take action to bolster the world’s largest economy beyond
its Aug. 9 pledge to hold rates at record lows through mid-2013.
A Chinese services index fell to a record low last month, adding
to evidence that country’s economy is slowing. China may report
this week industrial production for August slowed from a year
ago, according to economists’ forecasts.  “Investors continue to view Russia as a derivative play on
the strength of global economic growth,”  Chris Weafer , chief
strategist at Troika Dialog in Moscow, said by e-mail. The
drivers will include “how confident investors are that the Fed
will come up with additional stimulus and China’s macroeconomic
report for August later this week.”  RTS Volatility  The RTS Volatility Index, which measures expected swings in
the index futures, rose 5.4 percent to 51.14 points yesterday.
One index point equals $20. The RTS index slipped 0.2 percent to
1,614 in Moscow, the lowest close in a week. The Stoxx Europe
600 Index lost 4.1 percent to 223.45 yesterday, posting its
biggest two-day drop since March 2009, while the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index futures retreated 2 percent. The U.S. stock
markets were closed yesterday for the Labor Day holiday.  A second day has been added to the Fed’s meeting this month
to “allow a fuller discussion” of the economy and policy
options, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in a speech on Aug.
26. Payrolls in the U.S. were unchanged last month, after adding
85,000 in July, and the  unemployment rate  held at 9.1 percent,
the Labor Department said on Sept. 2.  European services and manufacturing growth weakened in
August, with a composite index based on a survey of euro-area
purchasing managers in both industries dropping to 50.7 from
51.1 in July, Markit Economics said yesterday. A figure above 50
indicates growth. Retail sales in the 17-nation euro region
unexpectedly advanced 0.2 percent in July from the previous
month, when they rose 0.7 percent, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said the same day.  Italy Austerity Debate  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s party lost elections on
Sept. 4 in her home state, spurring speculation that support for
bailing out  Europe ’s indebted nations may fade.  Italian bonds plunged for the 11th day yesterday amid
concern the government may backslide on its austerity package
announced on Aug. 5. The nation’s Senate will begin a debate
today on the 45.5 billion-euro ($64 billion) plan just as CGIL,
Italy’s biggest union, holds a strike across the country against
the measures. The government agreed last week to drop spending
cuts and tax increases from the plan.  “Euro crisis is back in the spotlight,”  Luis Saenz , chief
executive officer of the U.S. unit of Moscow-based brokerage
Otkritie Financial Corp., wrote in an e-mail note. “European
PMI and retails sales are unlikely to lift the mood.”  Crude Plunges  Urals crude declined 2 percent, the steepest slump since
Aug. 8, while crude for October delivery sank 3.3 percent to
$83.60 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Energy
sales contribute as much as 40 percent of Russian government
revenue and 17 percent of gross domestic product, Finance
Minister Alexei Kudrin said in June.  Consumer prices in Russia rose 8.2 percent from a year
earlier last month, the slowest pace since November, the Federal
Statistics Service in Moscow said yesterday. Bank Rossii will
hold its refinancing rate at 8.25 percent after increases in
February and April, according to all 22 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. The central bank may meet this week.  The Micex has slumped 12 percent this year and trades at
5.8 times analysts’ earnings estimates. That compares with a 14
percent decline in the MSCI Emerging-Markets index, which trades
at 10.5 times profits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 Lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  