-- 
Rubber Futures Decline to One-Week Low as U.S. Data Raise Demand Concern

-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-09-05T07:48:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/rubber-futures-decline-as-u-s-china-data-raise-demand-concern.html
Rubber declined to the lowest level
in more than a week on concern that demand for the commodity may
slow amid signs growth is moderating in the U.S. and  China , the
world’s largest economies.  February-delivery rubber fell as much as 2.6 percent to 360
yen a kilogram ($4,687 a metric ton) on the Tokyo Commodity
Exchange before settling at 360.9 yen, the lowest settlement
price since Aug. 26. Futures gained 2.9 percent last week.  Oil in  New York  and Asian stocks dropped for a second day
after U.S. job growth stalled last month and discord over
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis worsened. China’s non-
manufacturing industries grew at a slower pace in August.  “The U.S. job data is the key factor pushing  commodities
markets  lower,” Chung Yang Ker, an analyst at Phillip Futures
Pte., said by phone from Singapore today. The rubber market is
coming under pressure from fear of a recession, Ker said.  U.S. payrolls were unchanged last month, the weakest
reading since September 2010, after an 85,000 gain in July that
was smaller than initially estimated, the Labor Department said
in  Washington  on Sept. 2.  China’s purchasing managers’ index of non-manufacturing
industries dipped to 57.6 from 59.6 in July, the China
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said on its website on
Sept. 3. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  The world economy is entering a “new danger zone” amid
Europe’s debt difficulties, World Bank President  Robert Zoellick 
said in Beijing on Sept. 3.  Demand Concern  Futures have lost 13 percent this year amid concern demand
for the commodity used for tires and gloves may slow.  “Economic data and car sales raised concern that demand
for rubber may slow,” said Chaiwat Muenmee, an analyst at
Bangkok-based commodity broker DS Futures Co.  Sales of cars, trucks and buses, excluding minicars, fell
to 216,510 vehicles in August, the  Japan  Automobile Dealers
Association said in a statement Sept. 1. Toyota Motor Corp.,
Japan’s largest automaker, led a 26 percent drop in domestic
vehicle sales last month, the 12th straight monthly decline,
after government subsidies expired last year.  China’s auto sales growth will slow as much as 5 percent to
about 19 million units this year after government incentives
that boosted deliveries in 2010 were removed, according to State
Information Center Research Director Xu Changming. China’s auto
sales have slowed this year after surging 32 percent in 2010 to
a record, as the government phased out sales-tax breaks and
rebates for rural purchases.  In Shanghai, rubber for January delivery fell 2.8 percent
to close at 32,795 yuan ($5,135) a ton. The cash price of Thai
rubber was unchanged at 141.50 baht ($4.73) a kilogram today,
according to the Rubber Research Institute of  Thailand .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  