-- 
Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp. to Sell London Site of Newspaper Union Clashes

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-09-05T15:26:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/rupert-murdoch-s-news-corp-to-sell-london-site-of-newspaper-union-clashes.html
Rupert Murdoch’s  News Corp. (NWSA)  is to
sell its U.K. headquarters in  London ’s Wapping area, the site of
clashes with the printing unions in the 1980s, after opting not
to redevelop the site.  News Corp.’s U.K. News International division will sell the
15-acre site following a review of its real estate portfolio,
the company said in a statement today. The company’s newspapers
now operate from an adjacent site at Thomas More Square.  Murdoch’s newspapers, including the News of the World
Sunday tabloid, which he closed this year amid phone-hacking
allegations, moved from the traditional environs of Fleet Street
to east London in 1986. Murdoch used the transition to Wapping
to break the power of labor unions, which resisted new printing
technology. Police fought strikers nightly outside the new plant
as the newspapers were printed.  News Corp. had considered  redeveloping  its entire site in
2008 by bringing all its U.K. businesses including publisher
Harper Collins together.  Other publishers such  Trinity Mirror Plc (TNI) , the publisher of
the U.K.’s Daily Mirror tabloid, followed Murdoch’s move to east
London. The Docklands area along the Thames River received an
economic boost in the 1980s, when the government of former
Conservative Prime Minister  Margaret Thatcher  designated it as
an enterprise zone.  East London Boom  The Canary Wharf development lured companies such as HSBC
Holdings Plc and Barclays Plc. More than 93,000 people now work
in the area, according to the website of Canary Wharf Group Plc.  Murdoch’s News of the World, which had run stories about
celebrities, sex scandals and murders since it was founded in
1843, printed its final edition in Wapping on July 10. News
Corp. owned the title since 1969 and it had Britain’s largest
Sunday tabloid circulation with sales of 2.7 million in May
before it closed.  The sensational scoops that made the tabloid so popular
also led to its downfall. The phone-hacking scandal started in
2007 when the News of the World’s former royal reporter,  Clive
Goodman  and  Glenn Mulcaire , a private investigator, were jailed
for illegally accessing voicemail.  Rupert Murdoch  and his son James were questioned by British
lawmakers in July about the allegations. The scandal, which
escalated that month after disclosures that the newspaper hacked
the voice mails of murder and terror victims, has led to 15
arrests and prompted the company to drop a 7.8 billion-pound
($12.6 billion) bid for British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  