-- 
Rupiah Strengthens as Inflation Near One-Year Low; Bonds Steady

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-09-05T09:35:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/rupiah-gains-as-inflation-expected-to-hold-near-one-year-low.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah advanced as a
report today showed inflation in August held near the lowest
level in more than a year.  Consumer prices rose 4.79 percent from a year earlier,
compared with 4.61 percent in July, which was the least since
May 2010. Bank Indonesia last raised its benchmark  interest rate 
to 6.75 percent in February and will keep it at that level at
the next meeting on Sept. 8, according to all six economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The rupiah will tend to strengthen,” said Mika Martumpal,
a currency analyst at PT Bank Commonwealth in Jakarta.
“Economic fundamentals are still good, keeping Indonesian
assets attractive. On the other hand, the  risk aversion  in
global markets will keep inflows and outflows balanced.”  The rupiah gained 0.4 percent to 8,538 per dollar as of
4:13 p.m. in Jakarta from Aug. 26, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Financial markets were shut from Aug. 29 to Sept. 2
for the Id-ul-Fitr holidays. The currency has appreciated 5.2
percent this year as overseas investors increased their holdings
of  government bonds  by 26 percent to 246.01 trillion rupiah
($28.8 billion), according to debt management office data.  Inflation accelerated in August for the first time in seven
months as demand for food rose ahead of the holidays.  “Bank Indonesia is unlikely to be too flustered by the
rise in CPI for now,” Mark Tan, an economist at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., wrote in a research note released today. “We also
expect the central bank to keep rates unchanged for the rest of
the year, given the backdrop of the uncertain external
environment.”  Inflation this year may be less than 4.9 percent due to
declines in commodity prices, Perry Warjiyo, director of
economic research at  Bank Indonesia , said on Aug. 26.  The yield on the 8.25 percent note due July 2021 was little
changed at 6.85 percent from Aug. 26, according to closing
prices from the Inter Dealer Market Association.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 