-- 
Russia to Hold Rates After Price Growth Halt

-- B y   A l e n a   C h e c h e l
-- 
2011-09-05T08:12:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/russia-to-hold-rates-after-consumer-price-growth-halted-in-july.html
Russia ’s central bank will probably
leave  interest rates  unchanged for a fourth month as inflation
decelerates to the slowest since November and a faltering global
recovery saps growth in the world’s biggest energy exporter.  Bank Rossii will hold its refinancing rate at 8.25 percent
after increases in February and April, according to all 22
economists in a Bloomberg survey. Inflation probably slowed to
8.3 percent in August from 9 percent, according to the median
estimate of 16 economists in a separate survey. The central bank
may meet this week. The Federal Statistics Service will release
inflation  data  today or tomorrow.  The increase in weekly consumer prices halted in July,
giving scope for lower borrowing costs amid a stuttering
economic rebound. Central bank First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  said last week that inflation won’t exceed 7 percent,
the slowest since the  Soviet Union  collapsed in 1991.  “An inflation slowdown in August is the main signal for
the central bank to leave rates unchanged,” Alexei Moiseev, the
Moscow-based chief economist at VTB Capital, said by phone Sept.
2. Consumer costs probably fell 0.2 percent in August from the
previous month and the “waning trend of price growth may
continue in September,” he said.  Slowing Growth  Europe ’s debt crisis and slower U.S. expansion are eroding
demand for Russia’s commodity exports. The economy may expand
slower than expected in 2011, growing 4.1 percent compared with
an earlier prediction of 4.2 percent, Deputy Economy Minister
 Andrei Klepach  said Aug. 26. The government expects consumer
prices to rise 6.5 percent to 7 percent this year, with the
final figure likely to be nearer the lower end of that range,
Klepach said.  Gross domestic product grew 4 percent in 2010 after a
record 7.8 percent contraction the previous year.  Investors have scaled back bets for higher interest rates.
Forward-rate agreements show the likelihood of 21 basis points
of interest-rate increases in the next three months, down from a
2011 high of 115 basis points on Jan. 26, Bloomberg data show.  Russia’s inflation has declined the most of the so-called
BRIC nations since January, allowing Bank Rossii to keep the
benchmark refinancing rate within half a percentage point, of a
record-low of 7.75 percent.  Brazil  on Sept. 1 became the second country in the Group of
20 Nations after  Turkey  to lower borrowing costs in response to
the worsening global outlook. On Aug. 26,  Mexico  also signaled
that it may follow suit. Russia may cut its main policy rate
twice this year, Bank of America Corp. predicts.  ‘Appropriate’ Rates  Borrowing costs are “ appropriate”  for balancing risks of
quicker inflation and an economic slowdown for the “coming
months,” the central bank said in a statement Aug. 4 after its
last rate meeting. Policy makers will keep the overnight
auction-based repurchase rate at 5.5 percent and the overnight
deposit rate at 3.5 percent this month and reserve ratios will
be unchanged, separate Bloomberg surveys showed.  The cost to fix payments on ruble debt using one-year swap
contracts dropped 7 basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, from
last month’s peak on Aug. 9 to 5.305 percent today, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The ruble slid for a third day, losing 0.7 percent 29.3425
per dollar as of 11:50 a.m. in Moscow. The Russian currency
depreciated 4.4 percent against the dollar in August, the
biggest monthly drop since May 2010 and the worst performance
among BRIC economies. Brazil’s real fell 2.5 percent against the
greenback,  India ’s rupee slipped 4.1 percent and  China ’s yuan
appreciated 0.9 percent.  Inflation ‘Cushion’  Cumulative consumer-price growth may reach 0.3 percent to
0.4 percent in the third quarter because of a zero-inflation
“cushion” in July and August, Ulyukayev said last week.
Russia’s inflation may slow to between 4 percent and 5 percent
in 2014, he said.  Modernizing the economy, a priority for President  Dmitry Medvedev , “practically doesn’t begin” with inflation above 7
percent, Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin said in April. Russians
see inflation as the third-biggest challenge facing the country
behind a threat of alcoholism and drugs and low  living
standards , according to a Sept. 1 poll by the state-run  VTsIOM 
research center.  Consumer prices probably declined 0.1 percent from a month
earlier in August, bringing year-to-date growth to 5 percent,
two Bloomberg surveys showed. That would be the first monthly
deflation in six years, according to Bloomberg data.  “Inflation pressure is dropping,” said Natalia Orlova,
chief economist at  Alfa Bank  in Moscow. “The central bank has
no reason to tighten policy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alena Chechel in Moscow at 
 achechel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 