-- 
South Korea’s Renewables Fund to Spur Investments, Official Says

-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 
2011-09-05T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/s-korea-s-renewables-fund-to-spur-investments-official-says.html
A $97 million-guarantee fund raised
by power generators, energy distributors and banks will spur
South Korean companies to invest in clean-energy, an industry
official said.  The fund, managed by the Korea Credit Guarantee Fund and
the Korea Technology Finance Corp., could provide as much as
1.24 trillion won ($1.16 billion) in guarantees to small
renewable-energy companies, Park Jeong Tae, team manager of
overseas business support center of the  Korea New & Renewable
Energy Association  that is involved in operations of the
guarantee fund, said in a phone interview yesterday.  “The guarantee fund will help spur investments in the
country’s renewable-energy industry, which is in a growth
stage,” Park said. “The investments will benefit small
companies as well as large companies which have them as
suppliers.”  South Korea ’s government aims to bolster its share in the
world’s solar and wind power equipment markets to 15 percent
each by 2015. It had a 11 percent share of the world solar
market and 4 percent of the wind market in 2010, according to
 government data .  Compulsory Quota  Companies that invest in clean-energy will have a ready
domestic market as the government plans to introduce in 2012 a
compulsory 2 percent quota of renewable energy that the
country’s 14 power generators will be required to derive, Park
said. The renewable portfolio standard, or RPS, will be raised
to 10 percent by 2022. It will create demand for renewable-
energy equal to 4.1 trillion won in 2012 and 54 trillion won by
2020, according to government estimates.  A total of 215 companies are involved in the country’s
renewable energy industry, hiring 13,380 employees and posting
8.13 trillion won of sales in 2010, the Knowledge Economy
Ministry said in February.  Applicants for the guarantee funds will be restricted to
small-sized companies involved in solar power, and other
renewable energy businesses as manufacturers or power
generators, he said.  The association, on behalf of the contributors, receives
applications, and an eight-member recommendation committee will
create a shortlist and propose them to the country’s two
specialized guarantor organizations, said Park, a member of the
recommendation committee. The fund can provide guarantees
equivalent to 12 times its face value, he said.  Successful applicants will get five-year guarantees on as
much as 10 billion won in loans, and pay lower fees and  interest
rates , he said.  Korea Electric Power Corp. (KEP) , the country’s monopoly power
distributor, is among the contributors to the guarantee fund.
Others include the country’s top two refiners, GS Caltex Corp.
and SK Energy Co., OCI Co., its biggest polysilicon maker,
Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co. and Posco Power Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  