-- 
Sarkozy’s Pro-NATO Policy Is Much More Than Symbolism: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-09-05T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/sarkozy-s-pro-nato-policy-on-libya-is-much-more-than-just-symbolism-view.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  has
ushered in a new era of cooperation with a foreign policy that
brings the country closer to the U.S. than it has been in
decades. Vive la France.  The fall of Muammar Qaddafi’s brutal dictatorship in  Libya 
wouldn’t have been possible without Sarkozy’s leadership. The
choice of the  Elysee Palace , the seat of the French presidency,
as the host of the Libya Contact Group meeting on Sept. 1 was no
accident and was richly deserved. The gathering of leaders and
foreign ministers discussed how to coordinate international
support for Libya’s new government. But unofficially, it was a
victory celebration. Sarkozy earned the right to sit at the head
of the table surrounded by U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and her counterparts from around the world.  The French emergence as a full partner of the U.S. and a
leader of the  North Atlantic Treaty Organization  might be the
most important aftereffect of the effort to depose Qaddafi. By
his reluctance to lead on Libya, U.S. President  Barack Obama 
challenged Europe to take greater responsibility for its
security. Sarkozy and U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  were up
to the task.  As Sarkozy told French ambassadors on Aug. 31, “The
Europeans demonstrated for the first time that they were capable
of intervening decisively, with their allies, in a conflict on
their doorstep.” Significantly, Sarkozy noted that “NATO turned
out to be a crucial tool in the service of our military
operations.” He added, “For the first time since 1949, NATO was
placed at the service of a coalition led by two determined
European nations.”  France  has always seen itself as a world power, so its
global ambitions are no surprise. What is new, and extremely
positive, is that France wants to be a partner of the U.S. in
leading NATO, rather than a competitor. Even though they have
similar interests and share many values, France and the U.S.
have often had a difficult relationship.  Charles de Gaulle , the founder of France’s Fifth Republic,
famously said that he was animated by “a certain idea of
France.” In foreign policy, that meant a France that retained
its grandeur and global influence by asserting its independence.
In de Gaulle’s eyes, NATO was an instrument for U.S. domination
of  Europe . In 1966, he announced his intention to withdraw
France from NATO’s unified military command. Since then, a
series of French presidents, from the left and the right,
retained de Gaulle’s policy of reducing American influence in
Europe by building up the  European Union  as an alternative to
NATO.  That would have all been fine if it had resulted in a net
increase in Europe’s ability to defend its interests without
U.S. assistance. Instead, it led to the construction of
redundant EU headquarters, and wasteful efforts to build an
indigenous European defense industry for equipment such as
heavy-lift aircraft and satellites, which duplicated existing
U.S. systems. The U.S. has long called on Europe to rebuild its
military capabilities by spending more on defense and doing so
more wisely. Sarkozy’s Aug. 31 comment that Europe needs “robust
military capabilities and real industrial and technological
policies” echoes the same themes, and makes it more likely that
the other Europeans will pay attention.  The French embrace of NATO could immeasurably strengthen
the trans-Atlantic partnership. Strong relations with Europe
remain the central pillar of U.S. national security. As was seen
most recently in Libya, when serious foreign-policy work needs
to be done, the U.S. turns first to its European allies -- not
to its Asian friends, and not to emerging powers such as  India 
or  Brazil .  We hope that Obama recognizes this reality.  France’s turn toward NATO comes as political paralysis and
economic troubles have eroded Americans’ willingness to play an
active role in the world. There is an irony here that Americans
should appreciate. The U.S. and Europe have a common interest in
promoting democratic change in the  Middle East . Even with its
economic troubles, and its deployments in Afghanistan and  Iraq ,
the U.S. retains enormous military capabilities and financial
resources that dwarf those of France or Europe as a whole. But
unlike Obama, Sarkozy is prepared to act boldly, as he said on
Aug. 31, “to resolutely support the peoples’ movements toward
democracy.”  Closer U.S.-French cooperation on security issues could
also help the two nations find a common solution to economic
challenges from  Asia , including from  China  and India.  The Group
of 20 , a forum of the major industrialized and developing
economies, is paying an increasingly important role in resolving
global economic problems, including the undervaluation of
China’s currency and imbalances caused by that nation’s export-
driven growth model. The U.S. and Europe have virtually the same
views on most of these matters. France will host the G-20 summit
in November, and Obama should engage with Sarkozy to prepare for
it.  France and the U.S. have been uneasy allies for most of the
past century. As a result, their friendship has never reached
its true potential. Sarkozy has taken important steps to turn
that around. It is now up to Obama to respond by giving Europe
the attention it deserves.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 