-- 
Sept. 11 Shows Examine Bomb-Proof Concrete, Tree Irrigation: TV

-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 
2011-09-05T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/sept-11-specials-examine-bomb-proof-concrete-tree-irrigation-greg-evans.html
As thousands of gallons of  New York
City  tap water cascade for the first time into the tower
footprint pools at  Ground Zero , architect Michael Arad is
overcome with emotion.  “I’ve lost the words,” says Arad, who designed the 9/11
memorial at the former site of the World Trade Center.  The scene in PBS’s “ Engineering Ground Zero ” captures a
rare moment: Nowhere else on TV this week will anyone be at a
loss for words about 9/11.  Broadcast networks and cable channels will air more than 40
specials and documentaries before and during the 10th
anniversary week.  Smithsonian Channel’s “ 9/11: Day That Changed the World ” is
a fine place to start. Tonight’s show is a thoughtful recapping
of the day’s events as witnessed by an impressive array of
insiders, from political leaders ( Dick Cheney ,  Donald Rumsfeld 
and  Rudolph Giuliani ) and military brass to intelligence
officials and reporters. Only President  George W. Bush  is
missing, having chosen the National Geographic Channel for his
less-than-revelatory interview.  Immediately following “Day” is Smithsonian’s “ 9/11: Stories
in Fragments ,” an unexceptional documentary that contributes
little to the by-now familiar 9/11 artifacts genre. The self-
congratulatory tone might be less irksome heard through
earphones, wandering the museum’s halls.  9/11 Children  NBC’s “ Children of 9/11 ,” also airing tonight, catches up
with 11 now-adults who lost parents that day. The special has a
mood of somber uplift, but it’s the unvarnished anger and grief
that lingers.  “For years and years and years, I thought he had survived,”
says Madison Burnett, who was 5 when her father Tom died in the
crash of United Flight 93. “Like he was somehow in  Pennsylvania 
and on his way home.”  Tomorrow, PBS’s excellent “ Top Secret America ”
will have viewers not only looking back, but over their
shoulders.  This collaboration between “Frontline” producer Michael
Kirk and Pulitzer-winning journalist Dana Priest reveals
evidence of a massive, largely clandestine national security
system that might be the most far-reaching, under-examined,
legacy of 9/11.  ‘Top Secret America’  While “Top Secret America” investigates covert U.S. actions
in Afghanistan and  Iraq , the more revelatory segments address
the domestic multibillion-dollar, security network of government
agencies and private contractors. The effectiveness of the
surveillance work, the documentary suggests, is as uncertain as
its methods and locations are shadowy.  On Wednesday, Nova’s fascinating “Engineering Ground Zero”
studies the technical challenges in rebuilding the  World Trade
Center site . How to irrigate the 400 trees? What recipe for
concrete is the most bomb-resistant? “Engineering Ground Zero”
has the details, and builds them into something profound.  The best of the  History Channel ’s crowded lineup is
Friday’s “9/11: The Days After.” Making powerful use of raw news
footage and film shot by amateurs in the aftermath of the
attacks, “Days” has an immediacy that all but makes the last 10
years vanish.  Showtime’s star-struck documentary “ The Love We Make ,”
filmed in 16-mm black and white by the great documentarian
Albert Maysles (along with Bradley Kaplan), chronicles
 Paul McCartney ’s rehearsals for, and performance at, 2001’s
benefit Concert for New York City.  McCartney Concert  Like the concert itself, “Love” (airing Saturday) has some
decent moments, but McCartney has been at this game too long to
let even Maysles get beneath his unrelentingly pleasant surface.  Still, McCartney solo is preferable to the film’s
celebrity-studded second half, when “Love” goes backstage at
Madison Square Garden.  “As I was saying to Jim,” says a name-dropping George Pataki to McCartney, as a maniacally grinning Mr. Carrey looks
on.  Showtime redeems itself on the anniversary day with the
poignant documentary “ Rebirth ,” which focuses on five people
whose lives were forever altered by 9/11. Director James
Whitaker has interviewed his subjects every year since the
tragedy, providing a chronicle of perseverance in the face of
devastation.  Also on Sept. 11, CBS will air “ 9/11: 10 Years Later ,” an
updated version of the remarkable 2002 documentary by James
Hanlon and brothers Jules and Gedeon Naudet.  The Science Channel marks the anniversary day with
a marathon of Discovery’s terrific six-hour documentary series
“ Rising: Rebuilding Ground Zero .” It’s everything you’d expect
from executive producer  Steven Spielberg : beautifully crafted,
certainly bloated and genuinely moving.  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in  New York  at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 