-- 
SIFs Will ‘Probably’ Sell Stakes in BCR to Erste, Wood Says

-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 
2011-09-05T16:33:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/sifs-will-probably-sell-stakes-in-bcr-to-erste-wood-says-1-.html
Romanian funds, known as SIFs, will
probably sell their stakes in Banca Comerciala Romana SA to the
lender’s majority owner  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) , Wood & Co.
brokerage said, following a conference call with SIF Moldova SA.  SIF2’s management is currently analyzing all the potential
options to dispose of BCR stake, such as a listing of the bank
on the stock exchange, selling the stake to Erste or developing
potential structured products, Ovidiu Fer, an analyst at Wood in
 Prague , said in a note to customers today.  “As the listing option seems less likely, as SIF Banat-
Crisana SA and SIF Transilvania SA have refused their
shareholders’ requests for meetings on the matter, the scenario
of selling the stake to Erste is becoming more probable, in our
opinion,” according to the note.  Erste, eastern  Europe ’s second-biggest bank after Italy’s
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) , agreed to buy the Romanian bank in 2005 for 3.75
billion euros ($4.45 billion at the time). It was the biggest
takeover in Austrian history up to that point. Erste said then
that it might list BCR’s shares within three years.  The Vienna-based lender agreed with the SIFs, which
together hold a 30.1 percent stake in BCR, to extend the
deadline to list BCR until market conditions improved amid a
global economic crisis. This agreement expires on October 13,
Wood said.  Increase Stake  “All the five SIFs plus Erste are to meet in the next few
weeks to discuss potential solutions to what happens after the
agreement expires,” Fer said in the note.  SIF2’s shareholders will vote on what to do with the fund’s
stake in BCR on Sept. 23 and Sept. 24, according to a statement
today.  Erste would like to increase its 69.4 percent stake in BCR
as soon as it gets the chance, Chief Executive Officer Andreas Treichl said last month.  If SIFs decide to sell their stakes to Erste, “the most
likely scenario will be a mixed payment,” the brokerage said.
Part of the money from the sale could be paid as dividends and
the other part could be used to buy stocks from the market,
“where Fondul Proprietatea SA shares would probably be the main
target, given their liquidity and attractive price,” Wood said.  “We believe that an obvious disagreement is underway
between the SIFs at the moment on the BCR issue, which is
undermining their negotiation power with Erste and could lead to
further volatility in the coming weeks,” Fer also said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  