-- 
Temasek Holdings Spends $2.8 Billion for Shares in China Construction Bank

-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-09-06T02:25:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/singapore-s-temasek-buys-construction-bank-shares-for-up-to-2-8-billion-.html
Temasek Holdings Pte, Singapore’s
state-owned  investment company , bought shares in  China
Construction Bank Corp. (939)  for as much as HK$21.7 billion ($2.8
billion) about eight weeks after paring its holdings.  Temasek purchased 4.4 billion shares, paying as much as
HK$4.94 apiece and increasing its stake to 8.1 percent of the
Hong Kong-listed shares, according to a  filing  to the Hong Kong
stock exchange yesterday.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  said Aug. 29
that it agreed to sell about half its stake in the Beijing-based
lender for $8.3 billion to bolster capital.  The purchase rebuilds Temasek’s stake in CCB at a cheaper
price after it sold HK$9.4 billion of stock at HK$6.26 a share
in July. Temasek said after the sale that it remained
“bullish” on CCB, which has dropped 14 percent in  Hong Kong 
trading since the end of June on concern the nation’s record
$2.7 trillion lending boom will lead to a wave of defaults.  The purchase “reflects a long-term confidence in the
Chinese economy and Chinese banking sector,” Eugene Tan, an
assistant professor of law at the  Singapore Management
University , said by telephone. “Given the volatility of the
markets, investors like Temasek may be forced to adopt such
strategies to enable them to continue toward their longer term
objectives of making good returns.”  Hiring From BofA  Separately, the Singapore company hired Tan Chong Lee as
its chief investment officer-designate from Bank of America,
according to two people familiar with the matter. Tan, who was
the head of corporate and investment banking in  Southeast Asia 
at Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch unit in Singapore, will be a
senior managing director at Temasek, said the people, declining
to be identified as the information isn’t public.  Construction Bank declined 0.9 percent to HK$5.48 as of
10:21 a.m. local time in Hong Kong, extending its drop this year
to 21 percent.  Temasek, which sold part of its stakes in Construction Bank
and  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  for $3.6 billion in July, said at the
time that it’s still seeking deals in China, the company’s
largest investment destination.  Boosting Bank Stakes  The fund’s units had sold 1.5 billion shares in
Construction Bank for HK$6.26 a share, and 5.19 billion shares
of  Bank of China  at HK$3.63 apiece.  The sales were part of its “portfolio rebalancing” and
the world’s fastest-growing major economy accounts for more than
20 percent of its S$193 billion ($160 billion) portfolio, the
investment company said.  It bought 97.1 million shares of Bank of China on Aug. 22,
boosting its stake to 7.07 percent of the Hong Kong-listed
shares from 6.96 percent, according to a  filing  to the Hong Kong
stock exchange last week. Temasek paid an average HK$2.972 a
share, with a maximum price of HK$3, it said.  Temasek held 16.9 billion shares in Construction Bank as of
Dec. 31, giving it 7.03 percent of the Hong Kong-listed shares
and 6.76 percent of the total, according to the Chinese lender’s
annual report. Its Fullerton Financial unit held 14.1 billion
shares, or 5.65 percent of the total.  Financial services companies made up  36 percent  of its
portfolio as of March. It’s the biggest investor in banks
including  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  and  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS)  and
holds stakes in  India ’s ICICI Bank Ltd. and  Indonesia ’s PT Bank
Danamon Indonesia.  Capital Shortfall  CCB said it extended an agreement with Bank of America to
December 2016 that allows the firms to work together on retail
and corporate operations, as well as wealth management and
investment banking, according to a separate statement to the
Hong Kong stock exchange yesterday.  Bank of America will have a $3.3 billion gain from selling
13.1 billion shares of Construction Bank this quarter to a group
of investors in a private transaction, the Charlotte, North
Carolina-based lender said Aug. 29 in a statement, which didn’t
identify the buyers.  The U.S. lender, which was the second-biggest shareholder
in CCB at year-end, aims to bolster capital ahead of new
international standards.
It began investing in CCB before the Chinese bank’s 2005 initial
public offering and owned 25.6 billion shares at the end of June,
the lender said in a regulatory filing. The stake equaled about
10.6 percent of CCB’s Hong Kong-listed shares, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors’ Concern  Selling the shares helps Bank of America raise capital to
comply with tougher minimums that may be imposed by regulators
as they try to prevent a repeat of the 2008 financial crisis.  Bank of America Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan ,
51, has also been selling businesses and assets as the firm
seeks to comply with international capital standards set by the
 Basel Committee on Banking Supervision . The bank, the largest in
the U.S. by assets, has slumped 46 percent this year in New York
trading amid investor concern that it may need to issue stock as
mortgage-related losses deplete capital.  CCB’s Fund-Raising Plans  Construction Bank, the world’s second-most valuable bank,
said on Aug. 21 that first-half profit jumped 31 percent to a
record 92.8 billion yuan ($14.5 billion) as credit demand
climbed. The lender said Aug. 22 that 93 percent of its local-
government loans were covered by  cash flow  at the end of June.  China ’s first audit of local government debt found
liabilities of 10.7 trillion yuan at the end of 2010, 79 percent
of which were bank loans, the National Audit Office said in June.  China’s banking regulator told lenders to accelerate
collections and said they haven’t set aside adequate funds for
losses on local-government debt, a person familiar with the
matter said in July.  Standard & Poor’s  estimates as much as 30
percent of such loans may sour and be the biggest contributor to
bad debts at banks.  Construction Bank also plans to raise most of a proposed 80
billion yuan debt offering in Hong Kong, it said last month. The
lender hopes to sell the subordinated debt by the end of this
year, Chairman  Guo Shuqing  told reporters in Beijing on Aug. 22.
Construction Bank won approval from shareholders on Aug. 18 to
replenish capital within two years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in  Singapore  at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  