-- 
South African Lawmakers Panel Backs Legislation to Safeguard State Secrets

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-09-05T16:20:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/south-africa-s-anc-uses-majority-to-push-ahead-law-guarding-state-secrets.html
A committee of South African
lawmakers approved draft legislation that aims to safeguard
state secrets, a measure civil rights activists and opposition
parties say may violate the Constitution.  The ruling  African National Congress  used its majority on
the panel to adopt the  Protection of State Information Bill ,
which proposes jail sentences of as long as 25 years for anyone
accessing classified information. Lawmakers representing three
opposition parties voted against the bill at a hearing in Cape
Town today. The bill will now be voted on in Parliament, before
being referred to President  Jacob Zuma  to sign into law.  “I don’t think one can expect any more radical changes to
the bill during the parliamentary process,” said Murray Hunter,
convener of the  Right2Know  campaign, which opposed the bill on
the grounds that it would violate rights to free speech and
hobble efforts to expose corruption. “It’s deeply
problematic.”  In June, the ANC buckled to pressure to limit the scope of
the law to protect information that had the potential to
undermine national security, rather than the broader national
interest. It rejected calls for the insertion of a clause
allowing such information to be released in the public interest.  Court Challenge  The Freedom Front Plus, an opposition party, said it would
ask the Constitutional Court, the country’s highest judicial
body, to determine whether the omission of a public interest
defense was lawful.  “We believe that the exclusion of the defense gives too
much power to the government to classify information as
confidential and will therefore not withstand the test of
constitutionality,” the party said in an e-mailed statement
today.  The bill proposes that anyone who releases or receives top
secret information for the purposes of espionage be jailed for
between 15 years and 25 years. It envisions sentences of between
three and 15 years for lesser offenses relating to the access
and possession of classified documents.  “The penalties are incredibly harsh” and will serve as a
deterrent to whistle-blowers, Right2Know’s Hunter said in an
interview in  Cape Town .  Right2Know represents more than 400 organizations and
16,000 individuals. Its backers include cleric Desmond Tutu and
author Nadine Gordimer, both of whom are Nobel laureates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town Nef at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  