-- 
South Korea’s Economy Grows More Than Initially Estimated on Construction

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S i m
-- 
2011-09-05T23:13:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/south-korea-s-economy-grows-more-than-initially-estimated-on-construction.html
South  Korea ’s economy expanded more
than initially estimated in the second quarter as spending on
public construction projects was higher than expected.  Gross domestic product grew 0.9 percent over the three
months through June from the first quarter, compared with a July
estimate of 0.8 percent, the  Bank of Korea  said in Seoul today.
The economy expanded 3.4 percent from a year earlier, matching
the July estimate.  The Bank of Korea will decide on Sept. 8 whether to raise
 interest rates  for the fourth time this year as it grapples with
risks from accelerating inflation and a global economic
slowdown. Consumer prices climbed 5.3 percent in August, the
fastest pace in three years and above the central bank’s 4
percent ceiling.  "The BOK will stand pat for a while as it needs to gauge
risks at home and abroad despite inflationary pressures," Lee Sung Kwon, an economist at Shinhan Investment Corp. in  Seoul ,
said before the release. "The economy won’t fall sharply but
weaken as a slowdown in the U.S. and  Europe  takes its toll on
exports."  The won fell 0.5 percent to close at 1,068.84 in Seoul
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
benchmark Kospi stock index dropped 4.4 percent.  Exports continue to drive the economy, expanding a more-
than-expected 27.1 percent in August, while industrial
production rose 3.8 percent from a year earlier in July, less
than analysts’ median estimate of 6.2 percent.  Goods exports rose 0.9 percent in the second quarter from
the previous quarter, today’s report showed. Private consumption
increased 0.9 percent and  government spending  rose 0.8 percent
while facility investment jumped 3.9 percent and construction
investment gained 1.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Sim in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  