-- 
Stagnant August Hiring in U.S. May Signal Renewed Recession

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-09-05T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/stagnant-august-payrolls-in-u-s-add-to-signals-of-renewed-recession-risk.html
The U.S. may be on the cusp of a
recession for the first time in more than two years.  Stagnant payrolls in August reported last week added to
data over the past month showing the economy is faltering,
including slowing manufacturing, plunging consumer confidence,
falling home values and lower bond yields and stock prices.  “At this stage of the typical expansion we expect above-
average growth and instead we are barely seeing any growth at
all,” said James Hamilton, an economics professor at the
 University of California ,  San Diego , who has advised Federal
Reserve banks and studied what tips the U.S. into downturns.
“We have to be more worried. Overall, the economy is in a
delicate position and another shock could send us down.”  September could mark the start of the slump, said  Julia Coronado , chief economist for  North America  at BNP Paribas in
New York, who predicts the economy will shrink at a 2 percent
annual rate in the fourth quarter. Economists at UniCredit Group
and Mesirow Financial Inc. also say the U.S. is at risk of
tipping into the first recession since the last one ended in
June 2009.  “When there are no jobs and no income, there will not be a
lot of spending either,” Coronado said.  Gross domestic product peaked in April and declined in May
and June, according to monthly tracking of output by St. Louis-
based Macroeconomic Advisers LLC that is used by the  National
Bureau of Economic Research  in dating contractions.  “I’d put the odds at 50-50 or maybe a little higher,”
said  Diane Swonk , chief economist at Chicago-based Mesirow
Financial, which has $57 billion in assets under management.
“At best we are treading water. What you are worried about is
the next wave will push you under.”  Private Hiring  Private hiring, which excludes government agencies, climbed
17,000 last month, the smallest increase since a decline in
February 2010, the Labor Department said Sept. 2 in Washington.
The jobless rate held at 9.1 percent.  Hourly earnings and hours worked both declined, reducing
the incomes of consumers whose spending accounts for 70 percent
of the world’s largest economy.  Employment is one of the indicators the NBER’s Business
Cycle Dating Committee uses in determining a recession. It
defines a recession as a period of falling activity spread
across the economy, lasting more than a few months, normally
“visible in real GDP, real income, employment, industrial
production, and wholesale-retail sales.” By contrast, some
economists define a recession as two consecutive quarters of
contraction in GDP.  ‘Worrisome’ Trend  “The trend is worrisome,”  Jeffrey Frankel , a Harvard
professor on the NBER committee, said after the jobs report.
While he doesn’t expect to make an official recession call, he
says, “This is a long slump we’re in. In that sense it’s like
the 1870s or 1930s. You have a recovery but not enough to create
jobs or get the economy going.”  Historically, it takes between six and 21 months to
determine a recession’s start and end. The last recession, which
began in December 2007 and ended in June 2009, was the deepest
since World War II. Gross domestic product shrank 5.1 percent
from the fourth quarter of 2007 to the second quarter of 2009,
revised Commerce Department figures showed in July.  Harvard University’s  Martin Feldstein , another member of
the nine-person NBER committee, said on Aug. 26, “We’ve got a
better-than-even chance that we’re going to be sliding into what
will be called a recession.” The former chief economic adviser
to President Ronald Reagan predicted drops in “production,
employment and sales and so on going forward.”  Fed Action  Last week’s jobs report makes it more likely that Chairman
Ben S. Bernanke and his Fed colleagues will take further steps
to protect the recovery when they meet Sept. 20-21, economists
said.  One possible move: replacing short-term Treasury securities
in the Fed’s $1.65 trillion portfolio with long-term bonds in a
bid to lower rates on everything from mortgages to car loans,
according to economists at Wells Fargo & Co. and Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.  At least two Fed presidents said in the past 10 days that
signs of a recession could prompt more easing.  Dennis Lockhart ,
president of the Atlanta Fed, said Aug. 31 that additional
large-scale securities purchases might be needed in the event of
“deflationary pressures developing or moving clearly in the
direction of recession.”  James Bullard , president of the St. Louis Fed, said on Aug.
26, “If the economy is weaker and the inflation picture
moderates, we could consider more action.”  Stocks Plummet  Political squabbling over the budget and mounting concern
about a default in  Europe  caused the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
to plummet 17 percent from July 22 to Aug. 8, prompting
companies and consumers to cut back. Declines of that size have
occurred just twice without signaling a recession, according to
figures going back to at least 1970 from ISI Group Inc.  “Companies have held back on hiring activity and become
more cautious because of politics and uncertainty,” which may
be leading to a “self-fulfilling prophesy” or vicious cycle in
which declining confidence leads to lower activity, said  Harm Bandholz , chief U.S. economist at UniCredit Group in  New York .  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan measure consumer
sentiment fell last month to the lowest level since November
2008. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index has been stuck below
minus 40, the level associated with recessions or their
aftermath, since the end of February.  “I had been saying for three months we wouldn’t have a
double dip, but I am losing that discussion,” said Tony Raimondo, chairman and chief executive of 900-employee Behlen
Manufacturing Co., which makes agricultural equipment and
commercial buildings in Columbus, Nebraska. “All the data, the
momentum, the emotions say the country is in the doldrums.”  Manufacturing Slows  Manufacturing, which helped pull the economy out of the
last recession, is losing momentum. The Institute for Supply
Management’s factory index fell last month to 50.6, the lowest
in more than two years. Figures less than 50 signal a
contraction.  Gross domestic product, adjusted for inflation, cooled to a
1.5 percent rate in the second quarter from a year earlier.
About 70 percent of the time when the pace has fallen below 2
percent, a slump has followed within a year, according to data
since World War II in an April study by  Jeremy Nalewaik , a Fed
board staff economist.  The shrinking gap between the 10-year Treasury note yield
and the target for the federal funds rate may be another
recession indicator, according to  Paul Kasriel , chief economist
at Northern Trust Corp. in  Chicago .  Benchmark Rate  With the benchmark rate on overnight loans among banks
stuck at near zero since December 2008, the spread between
short-term and 10-year rates has declined in tandem with the
falling 10-year yield. The 10-year yield fell to 1.99 percent on
Sept. 2, from 3.77 percent in February.  Some economists aren’t ready to conclude a recession is
inevitable. For one, the August payroll figure was pulled down
by a strike at Verizon Communications Inc. involving about
45,000 workers.  Also, while “soft data” such as business and  consumer
confidence  determined by surveys points to recession, most
“hard data” including reports of sales and production continue
to expand, said Michael Gapen, senior U.S. economist at Barclays
Capital Inc.  “Downside risks are certainly elevated, and there are
several risks that could indeed tip the economy into recession
but things like higher uncertainty alone historically are not
something that by themselves send the  U.S. economy  into
recession,” he said.  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in New York, said it takes three months of
declining payrolls to signal a downturn.  “There is no recession,” he said. “We are not even at
stage one alert yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in  Washington  at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  