-- 
Swiss Private Bankers Pursue Acquisitions to Solve ‘Growth or Die’ Dilemma

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-09-05T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/swiss-private-bankers-pursue-acquisitions-to-solve-growth-or-die-dilemma.html
Swiss private bankers are pursuing
acquisitions to boost profits as punitive tax agreements make
the nation less attractive for rich foreign clients.  Union Bancaire Privee, the Geneva-based firm that ranked
among the world’s biggest hedge fund investors as recently as
2008, agreed last month to buy ABN Amro Bank NV’s Swiss wealth-
management unit for an undisclosed sum.  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) 
and  Vontobel Holding AG (VONN)  have said they may make takeovers.  Deals are under consideration as the more than 160 private
banks in Switzerland are seeking new ways to gain assets after a
crackdown on  tax evasion  in the U.S. and Europe. The process may
be accelerated by tax changes with  Germany  and the U.K. that are
prompting clients to move money back to their home countries.  “This really is a question of growth or die,” said Arno Endres, head of research at Luzerner Kantonalbank AG in Luzern,
Switzerland. Money management is “a size business, and if some
banks are merging, it creates pressure on other participants.”  Only two Swiss banks were among the world’s top 10 wealth
managers last year, with UBS AG third with $1.56 trillion of
assets under management and Credit Suisse Group AG fifth with
$865 billion, according to data compiled by Scorpio Partnership.
Geneva’s Pictet & Cie. and Lombard Odier Darier Hentsch & Cie.
make the top 20, along with Zurich-based  Julius Baer .  Adding Scale  The Swiss government agreed in March 2009 to adopt
international standards on the exchange of information on tax
evaders after being accused by Germany and the U.S. of helping
to shelter cheats. The policy was the biggest change to the
country’s banking secrecy laws since their introduction in 1934.  In the new business environment, private banks will
probably need at least 100 billion Swiss francs ($126 billion)
of assets under management to succeed, Endres said. It’s a level
that would eliminate all but seven Swiss wealth managers.  Julius Baer, with 166 billion francs of client assets,
counts Switzerland amongst its “focus markets for
acquisitions,” said Jan Vonder Muehll, a company spokesman. The
nation’s largest publicly traded private bank has about 1
billion francs of excess capital that may be used for purchases.  For UBP,  ABN Amro ’s $15.8 billion of assets will add
“scale,” Chief Executive Officer Guy de Picciotto said last
month. UBP, whose clients posted losses from investments tied to
 Bernard Madoff ’s Ponzi scheme, is rebuilding after assets under
management slumped 55 percent to 60.7 billion francs since the
end of 2007.  Tax Trigger  ABN Amro is getting out of Swiss  wealth management  to focus
on markets where it has a larger position, said Brigitte Seegers, a spokeswoman for the Amsterdam-based bank.  Swiss tax accords with Germany and the U.K., which end
disputes over tax evasion by wealthy Germans and Britons with
cross-border accounts, will spur acquisitions, said Andreas
Lenzhofer of consulting firm Booz & Co. in Zurich. The amount of
undeclared money in  Switzerland  is estimated by some observers
at between 300 billion francs to 1 trillion francs, the
 International Monetary Fund  said in May.  “These new tax agreements will accelerate consolidation,”
said Lenzhofer. “They will make it easier to assess the risks
within client portfolios.”  Swiss banks plan to levy a 26.375 percent withholding tax
on interest, dividends and  capital gains  earned by Germans with
offshore accounts. The rates for Britons will be 48 percent on
investment income and 27 percent on capital gains. Revenue
generated will go to the German and British treasuries, while
the clients’ identities remain secret.  Under Pressure  That will improve transparency, which was lacking when
Julius Baer bought  ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s Geneva-based wealth management
business in October 2009, according to Lenzhofer. Buyers weren’t
sure what percentage of a bank’s assets under management were
undeclared client funds, which might be moved out of Switzerland
during a crackdown by tax authorities.  The difficulty in valuing these assets has so far made
potential buyers wary. There were 166 private banks in
Switzerland at the end of last year, compared with 181 in 2005,
figures compiled by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in Zurich show.  Zurich-based Vontobel is looking for a private-banking
acquisition in Switzerland or Germany, Chief Executive Officer
Zeno Staub said last month. A company with assets of 4 billion
francs to 10 billion francs under management would hit “the
sweet spot,” he said.  “For a dynamic buyer with a clear strategy and a large
enough war chest, the opportunities to make value-adding deals
are clearly increasing,” said Patrik Kerler, head of mergers
and acquisitions for  KPMG  in Switzerland.  Coutts to Barclays  Foreign-owned private banks that lack size will be under
particular pressure as margins on offshore assets are squeezed
and European clients repatriate funds from Switzerland,
according to Lenzhofer.  HSBC Holdings Plc’s Swiss private bank is above the 100
billion-franc threshold. The London-based bank might make an
acquisition if it found a target with the right presence in
emerging markets, Alexandre Zeller, the CEO of the company’s
Swiss private bank, said in an interview.  RBS Coutts Bank AG in Zurich has less than a quarter of the
client asset base managed by HSBC. Client funds at Barclays
Plc’s Geneva subsidiary shrank in 2010 and were about 10 billion
francs in April this year.  “It’s difficult to be a small Swiss bank,” said Gregoire
Pennone, a spokesman for Banque Benedict Hentsch & Cie., a
Geneva bank with fewer assets under management than Barclays.
“But since we’re a young bank we don’t really have troubles
with clients’ tax situations.”  Focus on Niche  Wealth managers  of 10 billion francs and smaller should
focus on niche markets to survive, according to Endres of
Luzerner Kantonalbank.  While Swiss wealth managers are seeking to build networks
in  Europe  and faster-growing Asian markets, those customers
typically generate less revenue as local competition, higher
personnel costs and lower fee levels squeeze margins.  “A client in  Singapore  is just not as profitable as an
offshore European client in Switzerland,” said  Florian Esterer ,
who helps oversee about $60 billion at Swisscanto Asset
Management AG in Zurich. “As you start to grow your onshore
emerging markets book, your margins will just come down.”  That will make it more difficult for smaller firms to
compete with UBS, Credit Suisse and other global banks that find
managing the wealth of millionaires an attractive alternative as
more stringent capital rules reduce profits from trading.  “Smaller private banks will find it particularly difficult
to manage a higher cost base and a lack of new money,” said
Martin Schilling of PwC in Zurich. “We expect more sales of
foreign banks, and independent Swiss firms remain the key
buyers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly in Paris at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  