-- 
Former Sydney Turf Club Chairman Challenges Ban on Artificial Insemination

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 
2011-09-05T08:06:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/sydney-turf-club-s-ex-chairman-challenges-ban-on-artificial-insemination.html
The former chairman of the  Sydney
Turf Club  is challenging a requirement that thoroughbred horses
physically mate to produce offspring in a lawsuit that may
change horse racing worldwide.  Bruce McHugh’s claim that a ban on artificial insemination
of thoroughbred horses is an illegal restraint of trade is being
heard in Sydney federal court starting today. The trial is
scheduled to take at least six weeks.  International rules banning the registration of
thoroughbreds produced by artificial insemination, and adopted
by racing officials in Australia, in part they say to maintain
the integrity of the sport, are outdated and designed to protect
large-scale commercial stud farms who now have a “license to
print money,” Ian Tonking, McHugh’s lawyer, said in his opening
statement today.  “The ban has no bearing on the conduct of the sport,”
Tonking told Justice Alan Robertson, who is hearing the case and
will determine the verdict. “It has nothing to do with a level
playing field on the track, but much to do with the playing
field that’s far from level, off the track.”  The lawsuit has rattled a multibillion-dollar global
industry, where a thriving breeding trade has developed. Each
year, owners of the world’s most-prized horses, including
Dubai’s ruler Sheik Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum, owner of two
stud farms in  Australia , send so-called shuttle stallions around
the globe to breed with mares, collecting fees which have
exceeded $330,000 per mating episode.  Those are “powerful economic interests” who want to
maintain the status quo, Tonking said.  Small Operators  The vast majority of breeders in Australia, the second-
biggest thoroughbred racing jurisdiction in the world, are small
operators, who have an average of three mares and whose voice is
being ignored, Tonking said. They would benefit from not having
to ship their mares to stud farms and gaining access to the
sperm of top-rated horses from around the globe, he said.  A court victory for McHugh could make Australia a trend-
setter, tempting stud book operators around the world to follow
its lead in allowing the registration of offspring from
artificially inseminated mares and saving money in the process,
breeders have said.  McHugh, who sued because he wants to breed horses and is
limited by the current rules, is scheduled to testify tomorrow,
Tonking said.  The trial is also scheduled to include testimony from
racing experts in Australia and  Europe , with at least four
European witnesses scheduled to testify by video, according to
Robertson. McHugh has scheduled to call 20 to 25 witnesses,
court documents show.  Stud Book  To be eligible to race, thoroughbreds must be registered in
a recognized stud book. The Australian  Stud Book  dates back to
1878, when the first one was compiled by William C. Yuille,
sporting editor of the Melbourne Weekly Times newspaper,
according to the organization’s website.  The book preserves an official record and ensures the
integrity of the thoroughbred breeding industry, the
organization said. Racing associations in other countries keep
stud books. More than 70 stud book authorities are members of
the  International Stud Book Committee .  Allowing artificial insemination in Australia will result
in the country becoming a “pariah” in international racing
circles, with horses being barred from participating in races
overseas, supporters of the ban, including the Australian Turf
Club and the Stud Book, plan to argue, according to Tonking.  ‘Hermetically Sealed’  It will have “disastrous ramifications” and will lead to
Australia being “hermetically sealed from the rest of the
world,” they will say, according to Tonking. “That’s a classic
straw man debating technique.”  McHugh has proposed the creation of a separate registry,
for horses produced through artificial insemination, which has
been rejected by the Australian Turf Club, Tonking said.  France 
allows separate registries, some of which allow horses produced
through artificial insemination, and that country hasn’t seen
any repercussions, he said.  The prohibition of any form of artificial insemination for
thoroughbreds has been in place in Australia since at least
1949, to prevent fraud and reduce errors in the registration of
thoroughbreds, Tonking said. Since horses are now electronically
tagged, and identified by their DNA, that argument no longer has
any justification, he said.  The International Stud Book Committee has always recognized
that a challenge to the ban on artificial insemination may
occur, “but in common with racing authorities, has maintained
that it would not be in the interest of the industry to
change,” the group said on its website.  The case is Between Bruce McHugh and the Australian Jockey
Club Ltd. NSD1187/2009. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  