-- 
Syria Kills 20 Protesters as Soldiers Ambushed

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-09-05T15:05:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/syrian-death-toll-rises-as-protesters-soldiers-killed-in-assad-crackdown.html
Syrian security forces have killed
at least 20 protesters since the European Union expanded its
sanctions in response to President Bashar al-Assad’s crackdown
on dissent.  At least two people died today in the central town of
Talkalakh, in the Homs governorate, while several people were
wounded in the northern province of Idlib, Mahmoud Merhi, head
of the Arab Organization for Human Rights, said by phone from
Damascus. Eighteen people were killed yesterday in Homs, Idlib
and the Hama governorate, he said.  Nine people, including an army officer and five soldiers,
were killed and 17 injured when a “terrorist group” ambushed a
military bus in the central area of the country, the state-run
 Syrian Arab News Agency  said yesterday. Security forces killed
three people after pursuing the attackers, the news service
said, citing an unidentified military official.  Assad, who inherited power from his father 11 years ago,
faces the biggest challenge to his rule as international
pressure to end the violence increases. The EU announced on
Sept. 3 that it had added four people and three companies to the
list of those targeted by an asset freeze and travel ban against
 Syria , where the unrest began almost six months ago. A day
earlier, the EU banned imports of Syrian oil.  Dead, Injured, Jailed  More than 2,450 civilians and 700 members of the security
forces have been killed during the crackdown, while 15,000
people have been injured and at least 20,000 are in prison,
according to Merhi.  The president of the International Committee of the Red
Cross, Jakob Kellenberger, said after a meeting with Assad today
that his delegation was given permission to visit the Damascus
Central Prison. “We are hopeful that we will soon be able to
visit all detainees,” he said in a statement.  Merhi said that human rights organizations should be
permitted to visit inmates at prisons throughout the country,
including some run by the security services that don’t answer to
the Interior Ministry.  Security forces have failed to halt the protests, which
were inspired by unrest across the  Middle East  and North Africa
that unseated Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali in
January and Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  the following
month.  Muammar Qaddafi  is in hiding after an uprising ended his
control over most of  Libya .  Oil Exports  Syria shipped 3.2 billion euros ($4.5 billion) of oil to
the EU last year, about 88 percent of its total exports to the
bloc, according to EU figures. The U.S. imposed a similar ban
last month.  The companies added to the EU’s asset-freeze list are Mada
Transport, Cham Investment Group and Real Estate Bank.  Russia doesn’t support unilateral sanctions against Syria,
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said Sept. 3. “It is
destroying any partnership approach to any problem,” Lavrov
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut  at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 