-- 
U.K. Retail Sales Decline as Britons Fret About Jobs, BRC Says

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-09-05T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/u-k-retail-sales-decline-as-britons-fret-about-jobs-brc-says.html
U.K. retail sales dropped in August
as consumers remained concerned about their jobs and incomes,
the British Retail Consortium said.  Sales at stores open at least 12 months, measured by value,
fell 0.6 percent from a year earlier, the London-based trade
group said in an e-mailed report today. Sales of clothes, shoes
and furniture fell.  U.K.  consumer confidence  fell for a third month in August
as turmoil on equity markets and signs of a faltering economic
recovery shook sentiment, GfK NOP Ltd. said on Aug. 31. Adding
to Britons’ concerns, spending power is being eroded at the
fastest pace since the 1970s as inflation outpaces wage growth.  “Poor consumer confidence, high inflation and the on-going
squeeze on personal finances remain the biggest threats to the
retail sector,” BRC Director General  Stephen Robertson  said in
the report. “Sales of big-ticket items are very dependent on
discounting and many retailers’ margins are being cut to the
bone.”  Declines were led by footwear, which posted their largest
annual drop since May 2009, and home textiles and accessories,
the BRC said. Clothing and big-ticket items such as fitted
kitchens and bathrooms were hurt as consumers put off making
purchases and focused on essentials, the group said.  In the three months through August, food sales rose 1.4
percent from a year earlier on a like-for-like basis, the BRC
said. Sales of non-food items dropped 1.5 percent.  The BRC report, which is compiled in conjunction with
accountancy firm KPMG LLP, measures changes in the actual value
of retail sales and doesn’t adjust for price changes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  