-- 
U.S. Tax Deal Must Comply With Swiss Law, Bank Group Says

-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a   a n d   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-09-05T09:34:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/u-s-tax-deal-must-comply-with-swiss-law-bank-group-says-1-.html
Switzerland  and the U.S. must agree
on a tax deal that complies with Swiss law, according to Patrick Odier, chairman of the  Swiss Bankers Association .  “The solution must be globally applicable, be definitive
and correspond to existing Swiss law,” Odier told reporters in
Zurich today. “We have two double taxation agreements with the
U.S. which cover such cases. A solution must be found within the
agreements’ framework.”  Switzerland has until Sept. 6 to provide the U.S. with data
relevant to a criminal investigation of alleged  tax evasion  by
some clients of  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , SonntagsZeitung reported
yesterday. The U.S. is requesting information about accounts
held by thousands of Americans in 10 banks including Credit
Suisse, the Zurich-based newspaper reported, citing
correspondence last week between Michael Ambuehl, the state
secretary to the Swiss Finance Ministry, and  James Cole , the
U.S. deputy attorney general.  Switzerland said in June that it was in talks with the U.S.
to resolve the issue of untaxed assets held by American citizens
in Swiss bank accounts. The U.S. Internal Revenue Service and
the  Justice Department  have stepped up enforcement to combat
offshore tax evasion after  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank,
handed over data on 4,450 accounts to resolve a lawsuit.  The way U.S. tax authorities are seeking information from
Switzerland on alleged tax evasion by Americans is “legally
unacceptable,” Swiss President Micheline Calmy-Rey said in a
speech on Aug. 22.  Tax Deals  Switzerland last month reached agreements with Germany and
the U.K. over taxation of undeclared bank accounts. Under the
accords, due to come into effect in 2013, Swiss banks will
collect taxes on investment and capital gains as well as a levy
for not disclosing the accounts in the past. Revenue generated
will go to the German and U.K. treasuries while client
identities remain secret.  “The U.S. should take the tax agreements with  Germany  and
the United Kingdom as an example,” Odier said, adding that
another state treaty that was required to allow UBS to disclose
data on about 4,450 accounts of its American clients “has to be
avoided and the U.S. needs to respect this.”  In February 2009, the U.S. gave Switzerland an ultimatum to
disclose client data or face criminal charges against UBS.
UBS avoided criminal prosecution by paying a penalty of $780
million, admitting it fostered tax evasion and giving the IRS
data on more than 250 accounts. UBS later turned over data on
another 4,450 accounts and the U.S. dropped its criminal case
against the bank.  “There can be no ultimatums between two friendly
nations,” Odier said. “I’m sure that the U.S. understands that
we’re not a  banana republic  here. Therefore I’m confident that a
solution can be found with the U.S.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net ;
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  