-- 
Mubarak Trial Hears Officers Testify They Were Unaware of Live-Fire Orders

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-09-05T23:35:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/mubarak-trial-re-opens-with-tv-banned.html
The court trying former Egyptian
President  Hosni Mubarak  heard security officers testify that
they had no knowledge of orders to fire live ammunition at
protesters during the country’s uprising, in a stormy hearing
where fistfights broke out between his supporters and opponents.  Families of the victims and lawyers representing them in
the courtroom said yesterday they were shocked by the testimony,
which they say may undermine the case against the 83-year-old
Mubarak.  Yesterday’s hearing was the first time witnesses took the
stand and the first since Judge Ahmed Refaat barred television
cameras from the courtroom. Mubarak’s trial began on Aug. 3
after pressure from demonstrators demanding a swift and public
prosecution of the man they blamed for corruption, political
repression and police abuses. At least 846 people were killed
during the revolt. Mubarak has pleaded not guilty, and the trial
was adjourned until Sept. 7.  Hussein Saeed Mohamed, head of the communications
department at the central security agency, testified that on
Jan. 28 orders issued by the then assistant interior minister
and defendant in the case, Ahmed Ramzy, were for the security
forces to try to prevent protesters from reaching  Tahrir Square .  “The instructions for the leaders in Tahrir Square were to
deal with the protesters according to how they see the
situation,” Mohamed said. “It was left up to them to disperse
the protesters in the way they see appropriate using the
equipment they have.”  Water, Tear Gas  Mohamed said that meant they could use water, tear gas,
shields, batons and bird shot. Mohamed said Ramzy ordered
weapons and ammunition and forces to be sent to the Interior
Ministry to protect it on Jan. 28, after hearing a group of
demonstrators planned to storm it, adding that he had no
firsthand knowledge of whether those arms were used against
protesters.  Three days earlier, on the first day of mass
demonstrations, Ramzy had ordered security forces to use water
cannons and tear gas to disperse the crowds, Mohamed said.  Asked by Judge Refaat if he was aware of orders for
security forces to use firearms against protesters, Mohamed
responded: “No.” He said that “during the 30 years I worked
for the central security, there was no incident to show that
anyone used live ammunition against protesters.”  Fistfights broke out between supporters and opponents of
Mubarak during one of the hearings’ breaks after a supporter of
the former president raised a photo of him. The courtroom
erupted in chaos as lawyers from both sides jumped on benches,
scuffled and exchanged insults.  Self-Restraint  Emad Badry Saeed, who worked at the central security
operations room on Jan. 28, told the court that instructions
from Ramzy were for security forces “to show utmost self
restraint.” “He always told us to deal with the others as if
they were our brothers or sons,” the witness said, adding he
was not aware of any orders to fire at protesters.  Bassem Mohammed, another officer and prosecutor witness was
asked if there were orders to fire live ammunition at
protesters, and responded: “No. Only if they stormed the
Interior Ministry, then the forces would fire bird shot in the
air and on the feet. We weren’t notified that any live
ammunition was used.”  “These are lies and deception,” said Moustafa Mohammed
with a photo of his son, who he said was killed during the
revolt, wrapped around his neck. “These witnesses sound like
defense witnesses, not the prosecutors’. The case is very
weak,” he said.  “If this drags on and the law fails to get us our rights,
we will get revenge with our own hands,” the father said.  Families of Victims  Gamal Eid, a lawyer representing families of the victims,
said the prosecutors’ witness testimonies showed that
“investigations were not serious and were blatantly biased to
the defendants and not to the victims.”  “The witnesses are talking as if it were aliens who came
and committed these crimes against the martyrs,” the lawyer
said.  Mubarak’s two sons, Alaa and Gamal, former Interior
Minister Habib el-Adli and six of el-Adli’s aides are also on
trial in the Cairo courtoom.  Repeatedly during the session, Judge Refaat struggled to
maintain order, at times banging with his fist on the podium and
yelling at lawyers to take their seats. At one point, he evicted
one of those from the courtroom.  As Mubarak was brought back to the defendants’ cage after a
break, his opponents yelled: “Oh Mubarak, execution awaits
you.”  Key Ally  Mubarak, a key ally of the U.S. and  Israel  while in power,
is also charged with using his office to acquire property for
himself and his sons, and in relation to selling natural gas to
Israel at below-market prices.  The trial comes as authorities struggle to repair the
economy and grapple with demands for a transition to democracy.
 Egypt ’s economy shrank an annual 4.2 percent in the first
quarter as tourists stayed away and factory output was reduced
by strikes.  The overthrow of Mubarak, which followed a revolt in
 Tunisia , has inspired uprisings in other Arab countries,
including Syria, Yemen and  Libya .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 