-- 
Mukherjee Sees India’s Central Bank Holding Rates, PTI Reports

-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-09-05T11:54:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/mukherjee-sees-india-s-central-bank-holding-rates-pti-reports.html
India ’s central bank may pause
raising rates as the nation’s economy slows, the Press Trust of
India reported, citing Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee.  Further rate increases may adversely affect economic
growth, the  news agency  reported.  Reserve Bank  of India Governor
Duvvuri Subbarao has raised interest rates 11 times since March
2010 and last increased the benchmark repurchase rate on July 26
by 0.5 percentage point to 8 percent.  Investment banks including UBS AG, Credit Suisse Group AG
and Morgan Stanley have cut estimates for India’s growth. UBS
predicts 7.2 percent growth for the year ending March 31, lower
than an earlier estimate of 7.5 percent. The central bank may
raise rates at least once more after inflation stayed above 9
percent for eight straight months in July, said Shubhada Rao,
chief economist at Mumbai-based  Yes Bank Ltd. (YES)   “Interest rates are close to peaking,” Rao said. “As
such the RBI may raise rates once more before pausing. There is
a moderation in growth.”  India’s services sector expanded at the slowest pace in two
years while manufacturing slowed to a 29-month low after the
central bank raised rates. The Reserve Bank said last month
price gains may remain “stubborn‘‘ in the near term.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index for services fell to 53.8 in
August, the lowest level since June 2009,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and
Markit Economics said in an e-mailed statement today. It stood
at 58.2 in July. The Purchasing Managers’ Index for
manufacturing fell to 52.6 in August from 53.6 in July.  While threats to growth could increase if global financial
risks amplify, the ‘‘immediate challenge to sustaining growth’’
lies in taming inflation, the central bank said Aug. 25.  Mukherjee made the comments at an event organized by the
Confederation of Indian Industry, PTI reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  