-- 
Ukraine Sees No Gas War Looming With Russia, Azarov Says

-- B y   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 
2011-09-05T12:20:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/ukraine-sees-no-gas-war-looming-with-russia-premier-azarov-says.html
Ukraine doesn’t expect a “gas war”
as the transit country seeks to revise its long-term contract
for Russian fuel imports, Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov  said.  “There is not going to be any kind of war, including a gas
war, with our strategic partner  Russia ,” Azarov said in an
interview broadcast by Inter TV Channel late yesterday.  Ukraine has asked Russia to revise a 10-year gas supply
deal, signed in 2009, to help balance the budget and persuade
the  International Monetary Fund  to release the remainder of a
$15.6 billion loan program. Gas pricing disputes with Ukraine
have led OAO Gazprom, Russia’s gas export monopoly, to cut
supplies at the start of the year twice since 2006, disrupting
deliveries to the European Union during freezing weather.  “We will stick to our contracts until we reach an
agreement,” Azarov said.  NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy, the Kiev-based state energy company,
is aiming to reduce the cost of imported gas instead of raising
prices at home as it seeks to close a deficit. Ukraine has
received $3.4 billion of the IMF loan in two parts, while the
third tranche has been delayed since March.  Gazprom, Naftogaz Merger  Ukraine is obliged to buy no less than 33 billion cubic
meters of natural gas a year under the supply contract, Gazprom
Chief Executive Officer  Alexei Miller  said on Aug. 31. The
Russian export monopoly links contract prices to oil and
products with a time lag.  Gazprom may revise contracts only if Ukraine agrees to a
merger with Naftogaz, Miller said last week. Ukraine must
resolve the import price before considering a merger or
integration of Naftogaz and Gazprom, President  Viktor Yanukovych 
said Sept. 3.  Naftogaz has said it is paying $355 per 1,000 cubic meters
of gas this quarter. In May, Yanukovych said Ukraine was seeking
a price of $240.  Ukraine’s government has sent a proposal to Russian Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin  calling for a return to government-level
gas agreements from 2004, according to a statement on its
website last week. The 2009 supply contract was signed between
the two state companies and contradicts the earlier agreements,
Azarov said.  The eastern European country may have to turn to an
international court “as a last resort” in order to revise gas
supply contracts, Yanukovych said on Sept. 3, according to his
 website .  “Ukraine is losing lots of money,” Yanukovych said. “We
are sure that we are suffering extra losses now. We cannot
afford not taking active steps to solve this issue somehow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  