-- 
Hungarian Brokers Worry Xetra Platform Will Erode Market

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-09-05T13:54:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/hungarian-brokers-oppose-introduction-of-xetra-trading-system.html
Five of Hungary’s biggest brokers
oppose the introduction of Deutsche Boerse AG’s Xetra trading
platform in Budapest, saying it will erode the local Hungarian
capital’s stock market, according to a statement today.  Concorde Ertekpapir Zrt., Buda-Cash Brokerhaz Zrt., Equilor
Befektetesi Zrt. and the local units of  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  and
 ING Groep NV (INGA)  wrote to the heads of Hungary’s central bank and
the financial watchdog, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  and the
chairman of the Budapest Stock Exchange to voice their concerns,
the five brokers said in a statement distributed to reporters.  The five companies are all co-owners of the bourse, whose
majority shareholder is the Vienna-based CEE Stock Exchange
Group (CEESEG). The five brokers represent 47 percent of the
trading volume on the Budapest Stock Exchange, according to the
statement. The BSE has called a  shareholders’ meeting  for
tomorrow to decide on the adoption of the Xetra system,saying it
will boost trading volume.  “If this system is introduced, foreign players would be
able to join the Hungarian stock exchange directly, without any
investment, which means they would be taking volume away from
the Hungarian players, who have made substantial investments,”
the five brokers said in the statement. “Over the long term, it
would result in the erosion of the Hungarian  capital market .”  Fear for Future  Seven other members of the bourse including  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG (RBI)  and Intesa Sanpaolo SpA’s CIB Bank Zrt. unit
also supported the request to delay the decision on the trading
system until the end of the year, Arpad Pal, Concorde’s chief
executive officer, told reporters today.  “We fear for our activities and for our future,” said
Arpad, whose company had the second-biggest stock turnover in
Budapest last month, after Erste.  The benchmark BUX stock index fell 1.7 percent as of 1:58
p.m. in Budapest, extending its slump this year to 16 percent,
matching the 2011 performance of  Poland ’s WIG20 gauge and
outperforming the 20 percent plunge in  Prague ’s PX index.  “The timing is bad,” said Zsolt Katona, head of equity
markets at ING’s Hungarian unit. “Many negative factors are
already weighing on Hungarian banks and investment service
providers.” Katona referred to  Hungary ’s tax on the financial
services industry as one negative factor.  The Budapest Stock Exchange won’t comment before tomorrow’s
shareholder meeting, spokeswoman Angela Torgyik said by
telephone today.  “Vienna and Ljubljana are already trading on Xetra and
Budapest and Prague will follow next year, in the second half,”
Michael Buhl, co-chief executive officer at CEESEG and Wiener
Boerse AG, said in an interview in Bucharest on Aug. 25. “This
will be a big synergy for us.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  