-- 
UniCredit Plans to Open Branches, Double Staff in China

-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 
2011-09-06T08:29:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/unicredit-to-open-branches-double-staff-in-china-nicastro-says.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Italy’s biggest bank,
plans to open new branches in  China , doubling its staff to
increase revenue in Asia’s fastest-growing economy, General
Manager  Roberto Nicastro  said.  “We are inaugurating our second branch in Guangzhou and
aim to open other branches in Beijing, in the coast and in the
central western cities of Chongqing and Chengdu,” Nicastro said
in an interview in Cernobbio, Italy. “The Chinese market is
crucial for us, we are ready to double our presence in the next
few years.”  In China, the Milan-based lender offers finance, advisory
and global transaction banking services for European customers
through branches in Shanghai and Guangzhou and a representative
office in Beijing which employ about 50 people. China, the
world’s second-biggest economy, expanded 9.5 percent in the
second quarter of this year and is expected to grow 9 percent by
year-end, according to an Aug. 18 note by Morgan Stanley.  Unicredit provides 500 million-euros ($704 million) of
loans in China, Nicastro said. It competes with  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK) , Germany’s biggest lender and Italy’s  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA. (ISP)   The bank’s second-quarter quarter profit more than tripled
to 511 million euros on lower provisions and higher revenue.
Executives are reviewing the bank’s strategy in some markets to
increase profitability. A new business plan should be presented
by November.  Supporting Clients  “Our strong presence in Europe gives us a competitive
advantage, as we can follow our European customers, especially
German and Italian, that want to develop business in China,”
Nicastro said. “The Chinese market is booming and the outlook
for European quality exports there is one of the very few truly
exciting developments today.”  Italian exports to China grew 29 percent to 8.6 billion
euros in 2010, according to data from ICE, Italy’s office for
international trade. Marcegaglia SpA, the steelmaker owned by
the head of Italy’s main business lobby,  Emma Marcegaglia , and
German carmakers are among the clients UniCredit is supporting,
Nicastro said.  Intesa Sanpaolo has an office in Beijing, branches in
 Shanghai  and  Hong Kong  and owns stakes in Qingdao City
Commercial Bank, insurance company Union Life and Penghua Fund
Management, according to an Intesa slide presentation in June.
Deutsche Bank employs more than 500 people in mainland China,
offering advisory, private and consumer banking, asset
management, commercial and real-estate services, according to
Deutsche Bank’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  