-- 
UPS Website Traffic Redirected by Hackers Whose Targets Included Vodafone

-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-09-05T11:50:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/ups-says-domain-registration-firm-unable-to-provide-access-1-.html
United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) ,  Betfair
Group Plc (BET)  and  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  were among companies whose
websites were disrupted by an attack that redirected  Internet
users  to a hacking holding page.  Online gaming company Betfair said in an e-mail that there
may be problems with traffic “for some hours ahead.”
Vodafone’s group website, which doesn’t hold customer data, was
also subject to the attack, said Simon Gordon, a spokesman for
the world’s biggest mobile-phone company.  The “illegal changes were reversed quickly,” said  Stuart
Fuller , a spokesman for Group NBT, the U.K. company which hosts
the domain registrations. “While no one can completely defend
against such sustained and concentrated malicious attacks we
will continue to review our systems.”  Hackers changed so-called Domain Name System records
without breaching the websites themselves, according to  Sophos
Ltd.,  a computer security provider. Consequently, users were
taken to a third-party website. Traffic to client websites was
redirected to a page branded TurkGuvenligi, NBT said.  UPS, the world’s largest provider of package deliveries,
said no customer data was compromised. “A fix is in place,
and we expect access to UPS.com to resume to impacted customers
within a couple of hours,”  Susan Rosenberg , a spokeswoman for
Atlanta-based UPS, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Access to the websites of computer-maker  Acer Inc. (2353)  and
publications including The Register was disrupted by a hack that
redirected users to the home page of the attacker, ZDNet
reported. The websites for National Geographic also were
affected, Sophos said.  ‘Graffiti’  “In many ways we have to be grateful that the message
displayed appears to be graffiti,” rather than an attempt to
steal information, Sophos said.  “What seems to have happened is that someone changed the
lookup, so when you entered Betfair.com into your browser you
were instead taken to a website that wasn’t under the control of
Betfair,” Jonathan Oates, a spokesman for Betfair said today in
a statement.  The corrected entries for the DNS records for the affected
websites take time to circulate worldwide, Oates said.  Henry Wang, a spokesman for Taipei-based Acer, said he
wasn’t aware of the situation. Washington-based National
Geographic Society didn’t immediately respond to requests for
comment that were made outside regular business hours.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at 
 kmiller@bloomberg.net  