-- 
Uranium Deal at 40% Premium Shows Nuclear Future After Fukushima: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 
2011-09-05T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/uranium-takeover-at-40-premium-shows-nuclear-future.html
Less than six months after the worst
atomic disaster since Chernobyl,  Cameco Corp. (CCO) ’s gambit to buy a
Canadian uranium deposit in its biggest ever acquisition is
showing that the nuclear future is now.  Cameco, the largest uranium producer, took its $530 million
bid for  Hathor Exploration Ltd. (HAT)  to shareholders last week after
negotiations failed to lead to an agreement. The industry’s
biggest takeover since the partial meltdown of a Japanese power
plant in March was set at a 40 percent premium even as the price
of uranium fell below levels reached in the aftermath of the
disaster. Hathor, which surged above the C$3.75 bid, said it is
also in talks with other potential buyers.  While Cameco has plummeted almost 40 percent since reactors
at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant leaked radiation after being hit
by an earthquake and tsunami, the Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based
mining company is betting uranium prices will rebound as
developing nations from China to  India  try to meet energy
demands in the world’s fastest-growing economies. The hostile
bid may also reignite interest in acquisitions of uranium miners,
which have lost half their value since the crisis, according to
Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. and Rivanna Capital LLC.  “This transaction indicates a dose of rationality on the
future of nuclear,” Ben-Ari Elias, a New York-based analyst at
Sterne Agee, said in a telephone interview. “People had gotten
distracted trying to figure out what the needs would be after
the earthquake and crisis in Japan. There was a lot of panic. As
that fear subsides, you could potentially see more deals.”  Valuation Gap  Before announcing its C$520 million ($530 million) bid,
Cameco said it delivered a written proposal to Vancouver-based
Hathor on Aug. 19. Cameco took the offer directly to Hathor’s
shareholders after the companies couldn’t agree on a price,
according to Cameco’s Chief Executive Officer Timothy Gitzel.  “The bottom line was we just couldn’t see each other’s
goal posts with respect to valuation,” he said on a conference
call on Aug. 26.  Cameco spokesman Murray Lyons declined to comment further.  Directors of Hathor said in a statement last week that
shareholders shouldn’t tender their stock to Cameco until the
company has had “sufficient time to respond.”  The tender offer, which began last week and expires on Oct.
31, gives Hathor’s owners C$3.75 in cash for each share held.
Hathor closed at C$4.12 last week, or 9.9 percent above the bid,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Relative Value  “We definitely feel that the valuation put forth by Cameco
is low and obviously the market feels it’s low as well,” Tony
Nunziata, a spokesman for Hathor, said in a telephone interview
Sept. 2. “We do have other players we’re talking to who are
seriously looking at the company. We’ll see if one of them steps
up to the plate or if Cameco bumps its offer.”  If successful, Hathor will be Cameco’s largest takeover and
the first of a publicly traded company, the data show.  It was also the first announced offer by Gitzel since he
took over Cameco in July. Gitzel said he would start looking at
acquisitions after  Japan ’s nuclear disaster push down prices of
uranium producers, according to an interview with the Globe and
Mail published in late June.  The magnitude-9 temblor and subsequent tsunami that struck
on March 11 knocked out power and disabled back-up generators at
Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima plant, leading to
explosions and radiation leaks as cooling water boiled away.  While Japan was hit by rolling blackouts, then-Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan  called for the nation to end its reliance on
atomic energy and imposed the first mandatory power savings
since the 1970s. Nuclear energy provided about 30 percent of
Japan’s electricity before the crisis.  Uranium Prices  The disaster caused uranium to plunge 27 percent in three
days to $49.99 per pound of U3O8, its tradable form. While
prices rebounded to $61.27 by March 24, the metal has since
dropped further, falling to a low of $48.75 on Aug. 30.  The  Global X Uranium ETF (URA)  has tumbled 45 percent since March
11, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s left the median
company in the exchange-traded fund valued at 1.25 times net
assets, down from 2.75 times on March 11, the data show.  Gitzel is using acquisitions to help Cameco double its
uranium production to 40 million pounds by 2018 after the stock
lost more than 60 percent since its record high four years ago.  Hathor’s Roughrider deposit in the Athabasca Basin, a
mining region in northern Saskatchewan, has so-called indicated
uranium resources of about 17.2 million pounds and is about 25
kilometers (16 miles) northwest of Cameco’s Rabbit Lake mill,
Cameco said in the Aug. 26 statement.  Roughrider Deposit  “It’s in their backyard,”  John Kinsey , a Toronto-based
 fund manager  for Caldwell Securities Ltd., which invests in
Cameco as part of its C$1 billion in assets, said in a telephone
interview. “They know the Athabasca region very well. This
could be insurance for Cameco to make sure they don’t disappoint
and do indeed reach that target.”  Cameco’s mill in the area is only running at about half of
its capacity, Kinsey said.  Developing nations such as China, India and  Russia  are
turning to nuclear power to meet their power needs, boosting
demand for uranium. About 180 million pounds of uranium ore was
used last year, outstripping production by 40 million pounds,
according to Sterne Agee’s Elias.  China  has 14 nuclear reactors, 26 under construction and 52
more planned, according to the  World Nuclear Association ’s
website. India has six under construction and 17 planned, while
Russia has 10 being built and 14 more in the lineup.  Nuclear Push  Those nations are “the big players that are going to drive
the next wave of demand for nuclear energy and uranium,” Ben Mackovak, a senior analyst at Charlottesville, Virginia-based
hedge fund Rivanna Capital, said in a telephone interview.  Renewed support for nuclear power in Japan may also bolster
uranium prices. Yoshihiko Noda, who replaced Kan as the nation’s
prime minister on Aug. 30, said in a policy statement that Japan
will “guarantee the stable supply of power by utilizing nuclear
plants after confirming their safety.”  “It was a terrible disaster, but nuclear power still needs
to be part of the solution,” Mackovak said. The renewed
interest in acquisitions “shows that the future for nuclear is
there. It was never derailed. There was just the perception that
it was derailed because there was a lot of panic and fear in the
markets,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 