-- 
Turkish Inflation Unexpectedly Accelerated in August After Lira’s Decline

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t   a n d   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-09-05T09:00:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/turkish-august-inflation-unexpectedly-accelerated-to-6-65-.html
Turkish inflation unexpectedly
accelerated in August as a weaker lira pushed up the cost of
imported goods.  The inflation rate rose to 6.7 percent from 6.3 percent a
month earlier, the statistics office in Ankara said today on its
website. The median estimate of six economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was 6.2 percent. In the month, prices rose 0.7
percent.  The lira has declined about 10 percent against the dollar
in the past three months, as the central bank’s commitment to
low  interest rates  deterred some investors. The bank cut its
benchmark rate to 5.75 percent last month, and said Aug. 26 that
any jump in prices stemming from the lira’s decline will likely
prove temporary as the economy slows.  Lower inflation in recent months “constituted a key pillar
of easy monetary policy,” said  Tatha Ghose , senior emerging
markets economist at Commerzbank AG in  London . “Today’s data,
however, highlight the adverse impact that such policy is having
on inflation through its disastrous effect on the  exchange
rate .”  The jump in prices probably won’t deter central bank
Governor Erdem Basci from cutting rates further, though a
reduction this month is unlikely, Ghose said. The bank’s next
interest rate meeting is on Sept. 20.  The lira fell 0.6 percent to 1.7626 per dollar at 11:15
a.m. in Istanbul. It has dropped more than 12 percent this year,
the worst performer among 31 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. Yields on two-year lira bonds dropped 4 basis points
to 7.76 percent, after climbing as high as 7.92 percent
immediately following the inflation data.  Import Costs  Transport costs jumped 1.9 percent in August, the
statistics institute said, as the lira’s drop made fuel imports
more expensive, offsetting a decline in  oil prices .  The central bank’s measure of  core inflation , which
excludes energy, food, beverages and tobacco, rose to 6.2
percent, the highest since February 2009, from 5.4 percent.  The bank said on Aug. 26 that it’s unlikely to take action
to rein in prices unless expectations of future inflation start
to rise. The estimate for the inflation rate in 12 months’ time
fell to 6.8 percent in the bank’s latest survey of economists
and executives published Aug. 22, from 6.9 percent two weeks
earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 