-- 
Turkish Yields Fall on Speculation Rates Won’t Rise on Inflation

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-09-05T09:12:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/turkish-yields-fall-on-speculation-rates-won-t-rise-on-inflation.html
Turkish yields erased gains as
analysts speculated a jump in inflation wasn’t enough to trigger
interest-rate increases.  Yields on two-year benchmark debt fell five basis points,
or 0.5 percentage point, to 7.75 percent at 11:57 a.m, a Turk
Ekonomi Bankasi index of the securities showed, after earlier
rising as much as 12 basis points. The lira weakened for a third
day, depreciating 0.5 percent to 1.7616 per dollar.  Inflation unexpectedly accelerated to 6.65 percent in
August as the weaker lira pushed up the cost of imported goods.
It was expected to slow to 6.2 percent this month from 6.3
percent in July, according to the median estimate of six
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The rise in inflation was not big enough to create
expectations of a rate hike and the yields reversed gains as the
market has calmed after some panic selling from some
investors,” Arda Kocaman, head of treasury at Finans Invest in
Istanbul, said by telephone.  Turkish policy makers cut  interest rates  twice this year
even as inflation hovered above the central bank’s 5.5 percent
target. The benchmark rate was reduced by a combined 75 basis
points this year to a record-low 5.75 percent on Aug. 4 at an
extraordinary session, with policy makers citing the risk of
recession in  Europe .  The lira has weakened 12 percent this year, the biggest
decline among more than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  ‘Disastrous Effect’  “Today’s data highlights the adverse impact that such
policy is having on inflation through its disastrous effect on
the  exchange rate ,”  Tatha Ghose , senior emerging-market
economist at Commerzbank AG in  London , said in e-mailed
comments. “Even so, we do not think that the central bank will
be deterred from further rate cuts over the coming months,
although the bank may not cut rates this month.”  Turkey ’s economy is slowing and the impact on import prices
from the lira’s decline is likely to prove temporary, the
central bank said on Aug. 26. Price increases remain on course
to meet the 2012 goal of 5 percent, and policy makers are
unlikely to take action unless expectations for future inflation
start to rise, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Bentley at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net  