-- 
Huttenlocher Said to Answer SFC Complaint After Fund Delay

-- B y   B e i   H u   a n d   D e b r a   M a o
-- 
2011-09-05T04:32:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/huttenlocher-said-to-answer-regulator-s-allegations-after-hedge-fund-delay.html
Carl Huttenlocher, the former  Asia 
head of Highbridge Capital Management LLC, will answer
allegations made in a complaint to  Hong Kong ’s securities
regulator that held up the license of his own hedge fund company,
said two people with knowledge of the matter.  The city’s  Securities and Futures Commission  informed Hong
Kong-based Myriad Asset Management Ltd. on Sept. 2 that it had
received a complaint, they added, declining to be identified
because of the confidential nature of the inquiry.  It alleged, among other things, that Huttenlocher
disadvantaged redeeming investors when the Highbridge Asia
Opportunities Fund he oversaw limited withdrawals at the height
of the financial crisis in 2008 and valued hard-to-sell assets
improperly. Myriad was previously scheduled to start trading on
Sept. 1 with about $300 million from Huttenlocher, 38, and
investors approved by Highbridge.  “We think this single complaint is frivolous and will be
resolved quickly,” Huttenlocher said in an e-mailed statement
today, declining further comment. “We look forward to launching
our fund in the near future.”  The SFC requested information from Myriad, Huttenlocher
said. “Of course we will give them what they ask for,” he said.  Wall Street Journal first reported the delay on Sept. 3.
SFC spokesman Ernest Kong wasn’t immediately able to comment on
the matter.  Myriad’s Assets  The collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September
2008 damped securities markets and made it hard for  hedge funds 
to sell assets to meet mounting withdrawals. The complaint
against Myriad relates to the common practice of limiting
redemptions, known as gating, and is holding up one of the
largest hedge fund startups expected in Asia this year.  Myriad’s assets are expected to hit $1 billion after it
starts to accept money from other investors on Dec. 1, people
with knowledge of the matter said in July.  At the end of 2008, 12 percent of the $1.5 trillion global
hedge fund industry’s assets were restricted by managers,
according to Credit Suisse Tremont Index, a joint venture
between Credit Suisse Group AG and Tremont Capital Management
Inc. Managers including D.E. Shaw & Co., Harbinger Capital
Partners LLC and Citadel LLC froze or limited redemptions from
their funds.  Separating Assets  Highbridge Asia Opportunities Fund separated its easy- and
hard-to-sell assets into two about equal-sized pools after it
received redemption requests for about 55 percent of its $2
billion assets at the end of December 2008, said the people
today.  The asset separation and withdrawal limits were decided by
Highbridge’s operating committee and were consistent with those
adopted by the flagship Highbridge Multi-Strategy Fund, they
added.  “We do not believe there is any merit to the complaint the
SFC received from a single anonymous individual,”  Kristin Lemkau , a New York-based spokeswoman for  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
which controls Highbridge, said in an e-mailed statement. “We
are very pleased with Carl’s performance at Highbridge and know
he always operates within the highest standards.”  Highbridge returned some cash to investors immediately with
the sale of liquid assets separated from the Asia fund and
gradually sold less frequently traded securities to repay
redeeming investors, the people said.  Clients who redeemed at the end of 2008 received more than
100 percent of the Asia fund’s net assets value at the time of
their withdrawal requests by September 2009, Lemkau said.  The Asia fund returned 56 percent in 2009 when prices of
convertible bonds rebounded, the people said.  As  fund manager , Huttenlocher was not responsible for
valuing the assets in the fund, the people said.  Highbridge President Todd Builione didn’t immediately reply
to an e-mail seeking comment.  Highbridge decided to liquidate the $1.4 billion Asia
Opportunities Fund after Huttenlocher resigned earlier this year,
people with knowledge the matter said in March. Huttenlocher
also oversaw about 8 percent of the $6.5 billion assets in the
Highbridge Multi-Strategy Fund before he left.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  