-- 
LVMH Said to Weigh Bidding for Amanresorts Luxury Hotel Chain

-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-09-05T10:01:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/lvmh-moet-said-to-examine-offer-for-dlf-s-amanresorts-luxury-hotel-chain.html
LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) 
is among companies that might be seeking to acquire luxury-hotel 
chain Amanresorts International Pte, said two people with 
knowledge of the matter.  DLF Ltd. (DLFU) , an Indian real estate developer, has received at
least five non-binding bids of $400 million to $450 million for
 Amanresorts , one of the people said, speaking on condition of
anonymity as the details are private. Amanresorts owns and
manages 25 small luxury resorts worldwide, according to its
website.  LVMH, the maker of Celine handbags and TAG Heuer watches,
said in April 2010 it plans to open two luxury property
developments on islands in Oman and  Egypt  under the Cheval Blanc
brand. New Delhi-based DLF is seeking to raise as much as 100
billion rupees ($2.2 billion) through asset sales to repay debt,
according to its latest annual report.  Spokespeople for Paris-based LVMH, the world’s largest
luxury-goods maker, and DLF declined to comment on the deal.  Private-equity firms are among bidders for Amanresorts, one
of the people said without naming the companies. The flagship
Amanpuri in Phuket on  Thailand ’s coast was built in 1987 and
rooms as the resort start at $525 per night in September,
according to its website.  DLF may sell part of its stake in the Amanresorts to a
“strategic partner,” Executive Director Saurabh Chawla said on
a conference call with analysts on July 29. The company plans to
keep the Amanresort in  New Delhi , two people with knowledge of
the matter said. DLF’s interest costs jumped almost six times in
the latest fiscal year ended March 31 from four years earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Indian company bought a controlling stake in
Amanresorts in November 2007 for about $400 million, including
$150 million of net debt. DLF took full ownership of the hotel
chain during the fiscal year that ended March 31 after settling
litigation with minority shareholders, according to its annual
report.  The first  Maison Cheval Blanc  hotel was built by LVMH
Chairman  Bernard Arnault  at the French ski resort of Courchevel
in 2006.  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  