-- 
Volkswagen-Suzuki Alliance Unraveling Over Control of Driver’s Seat: Cars

-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a ,   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a   a n d   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-09-05T23:10:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/vw-suzuki-alliance-unraveling-over-control-of-driver-seat-cars.html
A tiff that started over  Volkswagen
AG (VOW) ’s description of  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269)  in its annual report has
escalated into a spat threatening to unravel the two automakers’
planned alliance before the partnership ever gets going.  “Volkswagen is not talking to us,”  Osamu Suzuki , the
Hamamatsu City, Japan-based company’s chairman, said in an
interview. “We have no plans to talk to them.”  The downward spiral began in March when VW said in the
 report  that it could “significantly influence financial and
operating policy decisions” at Suzuki, describing the Japanese
company as an “associate.” That didn’t sit well with Suzuki.  The two since then have engaged in a public feud that has
brought to a halt VW’s efforts to turn a 222.5 billion-yen ($2.9
billion) investment into an operational alliance. The
partnership was meant to combine Suzuki’s leading position in
India,  Asia ’s second-fastest growing major economy, with
Volkswagen’s global reach as the world’s third-biggest carmaker.  When the deal was signed in December 2009, with VW taking
a 20 percent Suzuki stake, the companies said they intended to
cooperate on technology, including hybrids and electric cars,
and expansion in emerging markets. Almost two years later, no
joint projects have begun.  VW, which forecasts deliveries will rise 5 percent this
year after selling 7.2 million vehicles in 2010, aims to surpass
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  General Motors Co. (GM)  as the world’s largest
carmaker by 2018 and is targeting India as an expanding market
to boost sales. Suzuki, which sold 2.64 million cars in its last
fiscal year, delivered 1.13 million of those vehicles in  India .
VW sold 53,300 cars in the country in 2010.  Partners Needed  “Suzuki really needs a big manufacturer behind it, so the
effect of a withdrawal would be far worse for them,” said
Aleksej Wunrau, a Frankfurt-based BHF Bank AG analyst.
“Volkswagen could very well step back from Suzuki and either
seek another partner or start afresh on their own in Japan and
India, which would of course be a lot more expensive.”  VW shares have gained 64 percent since the partnership was
announced on Dec. 9, 2009, valuing the Wolfsburg, Germany-based
carmaker at 46.1 billion euros ($65 billion). Suzuki has dropped
33 percent, giving Japanese company a market capitalization of
860 billion yen ($11.2 billion).  Osamu Suzuki hasn’t found any VW technologies he’d like to
adopt following an extensive review of what they have to offer,
he wrote in a Nikkei newspaper column in July. Instead, he
decided in June to buy  diesel engines  from  Italy ’s  Fiat SpA (F)  for
cars built in  Hungary . Suzuki in July also said the automaker
was open to forming alliances with others.  Fiat Snub  The moves have left VW baffled, with the carmaker now of
the opinion that Suzuki has rolled back the partnership to
square one by keeping its German ally in the dark about the Fiat
plans and its intentions to seek alliances with rivals,
according to a person familiar with VW’s thinking, who declined
to be identified discussing private matters. VW Chief Financial
Officer Hans Dieter Poetsch on a July 28 conference call said
the partnership is under “review.”  “VW and Suzuki still are, and will continue to be, two
independent companies with different business models from
different cultural environments,” Hans Demant, VW’s coordinator
for international projects, said in an e-mailed statement. “The
cooperation is marked by highest respect and acceptance.”  A successful relationship depends on an understanding that
the two are equal partners, according to two Suzuki executives,
who declined to be publicly identified discussing the matter.
The company is aiming to clarify what direction it wants to take
with the partnership by October, one of the executives said.  Indian Attraction  “Volkswagen keeps talking to the media, but not to us
directly,” Chairman Suzuki said in the Aug. 10 interview.  Volkswagen Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  said
in May the automaker planned to target the small-car segment in
India as a potential joint project with Suzuki, as well as parts
procurement and development of alternative-drive technologies.  While Suzuki has a dominant position in India, where its
 Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL)  unit is the market leader, increasing
competition means holding onto the top spot will become harder.
VW’s global reach and product portfolio, with more than 60
models at the namesake brand alone, could help.  Maruti Suzuki will sell 36 percent of the 3.07 million
vehicles delivered in India in 2011, IHS Automotive estimates.
Overall sales in the market will climb 76 percent to 5.41
million in 2016, with Maruti Suzuki nabbing 25 percent,
according to IHS forecasts.  GM Alliance  The German automaker remains convinced of business
opportunities for both sides, according to the person familiar
with VW’s thinking. A report by German newsletter Platow Brief
on Aug. 5 that VW and Suzuki will terminate the alliance “is
nonsense,” VW spokesman Michael Brendel said. Suzuki’s
intention is also to salvage the relationship, said one of its
executives who declined to be identified.  Suzuki previously had a 27-year equity alliance with GM,
which resulted in joint product development and global
purchasing. The partnership ended as GM headed toward bankruptcy.
The Detroit-based  carmaker  sold a 17 percent stake in 2006 to
raise $2 billion and strengthen its balance sheet. It unwound
its remaining 3 percent stake in 2008.  The lack of progress in the new cooperation with Volkswagen
contrasts with what  Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211)  and PSA Peugeot
Citroen have achieved, said Masatoshi Nishimoto, a Tokyo-based
IHS auto analyst.  Starting Over?  Mitsubishi and Peugeot began a partnership in 2005 when the
Japanese carmaker began supplying a car based on its Outlander
sport-utility vehicle to its French partner. Since then, they’ve
built a factory together in  Russia  that started operating last
September, and Peugeot in 2010 announced it would sell electric
cars supplied by Mitsubishi.  “That partnership has resulted in many joint models; it’s
been working very well,” Nishimoto said. For Suzuki and VW,
“the alliance hasn’t benefited either company in any
significant way so far.”  Volkswagen and Suzuki originally planned to work together
to develop hybrid and electric cars to sell under both car
brands, and set up offices at each other’s headquarters. Before
any of that can happen, they need to figure out whether they
still want to work together.  “The question is whether they can really start again with
a clean slate,” Wunrau said. “Can they start over?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in  Tokyo  at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net ;
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net ;
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net . 