-- 
World Bank, China May Cooperate to Transfer Manufacturing Jobs to Africa

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-05T09:36:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/world-bank-china-may-cooperate-to-transfer-manufacturing-jobs-to-africa.html
The  World Bank  is in “very early
stage” talks on cooperating with China to promote the transfer
of low-value manufacturing jobs from the nation to  Africa , said
 Robert Zoellick , head of the Washington-based lender.  An expected end to the expansion of China’s labor force and
the government’s push for domestic companies to move up the
value chain could help shift jobs that would boost employment in
sub-Saharan Africa and North Africa, Zoellick said at a briefing
in Beijing today at the end of a five-day visit.  China’s three-decade-old, one-child policy may accelerate
declines in the workforce, forcing companies to upgrade to
higher-value products. The pool of 15 to 24-year-olds, a
mainstay for factories making cheap clothes, toys and
electronics, will fall by almost 62 million people in the 15
years through 2025, according to United Nations projections.  There are about 85 million low-value manufacturing jobs in
 China  compared with about 8 million to 10 million in sub-Saharan
and North Africa, Zoellick said. Transferring 5 million of those
85 million jobs would boost employment opportunities in the
African regions by 50 percent, he said.  Zoellick said he held discussions with Chinese vice
premiers, officials at the commerce ministry and provincial
leaders on how to convince Chinese companies to shift jobs to
Africa through methods such as the creation of industrial zones.  Issues including energy supplies, training, logistics and
political stability still need to be resolved to pave the way
for these job transfers, Zoellick said.  The  World Bank  also sees potential for China to help in its
attempts to improve  food production  in African and sub-Saharan
regions in areas such as irrigation, fertilizer, storage and
research into seed varieties, Zoellick said.  “This is one of the areas we are encouraging deeper
cooperation between China and Africa,” he said, without
elaborating.  --Li Yanping. Editors: Nerys Avery, John Liu  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  