-- 
Yankees Beat Orioles 11-10 as Montero Hits First 2 Home Runs; Boston Loses

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-09-06T04:30:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/yankees-beat-orioles-11-10-as-montero-hits-first-2-home-runs-boston-loses.html
Rookie Jesus Montero twice emerged
from the dugout to acknowledge the applause of 45,069 fans at
Yankee Stadium after hitting his first two Major League Baseball
home runs as  New York  beat the Baltimore Orioles 11-10.  “I was dreaming of doing that before. I was always telling
myself before, ‘One day I’m going to be that guy,’” Montero
told reporters. “It was amazing moment and an amazing
feeling.”  Also yesterday, Cliff Lee pitched his league-leading sixth
shutout of the season as the  Philadelphia Phillies  beat the
Atlanta Braves 9-0, while rookie Zach Stewart took a perfect
game into the eighth inning as the  Chicago White Sox  swept their
double header against the  Minnesota Twins .  The 21-year-old Montero, a catcher who was promoted from
the minor leagues on Sept. 1, hit a solo home run in the fifth
inning yesterday for New York to snap an 8-8 tie and added a
two-run shot in the seventh as the Yankees extended their
winning streak to five games.  Montero is the first Yankee to hit his first two major-
league homers in the same game since Shane Spencer in 1998,
according to the Elias Sports Bureau.  “We always thought that this young man can swing the
bat,” Yankees manager  Joe Girardi  said. “The one thing is, you
don’t get too giddy on one game and you don’t get too down on
another game.”  Robinson Cano hit a grand slam, his third of the year, and
Mark Teixeira added his 36th home run of the season for the
Yankees, who have won eight of nine games.  Yankees Extend Lead  New York (86-53) pushed its lead atop the American League
East to 2 1/2 games as second-place  Boston  (84-56) lost 1-0 in
11 innings to the  Toronto Blue Jays  yesterday.  The Yankees and Orioles combined for 13 runs over the first
two innings as both starting pitchers struggled. Brian Matusz
gave up five runs in 1 1/3 innings for Baltimore, while Yankees
pitcher  Freddy Garcia  allowed a season-high seven runs in 2 2/3
innings.  New York pulled away behind Montero, who was in the lineup
as the team’s designated hitter, a role he could fill in the
postseason against left-handed pitchers. In four games since his
call-up, Montero is hitting .385.  The  Red Sox  lost for the fifth time in seven games as
Toronto’s Brett Lawrie hit a game-ending home run in the bottom
of the 11th inning.  It was the second setback of the day for Boston, which lost
starting pitcher  Josh Beckett  to an ankle injury during the
fourth inning.  Lee Extends Win Streak  At Citizens Bank Park in Philadelphia, Lee won his seventh
straight start to improve to 16-7. The left-hander has a 0.96
earned run average during his streak, while the win extended the
Phillies’ MLB-best record to 89-48.  The White Sox won their first game against the Twins
yesterday 2-1 behind seven scoreless innings by Philip Humber.
In the second game, Stewart finished with a one-hitter as
 Chicago  won 4-0.  Stewart retired 21 batters before Danny Valencia got a
leadoff double in the eighth to end the right-hander’s bid to
become the 21st rookie in major league history to throw a no-
hitter.  Stewart was 0-1 with a 10.98 earned run average in his two
previous major league starts. A third-round pick of the
 Cincinnati Reds  in 2008, the White Sox acquired the 24-year-old
from the Toronto Blue Jays along with pitcher Jason Frasor on
July 27 in exchange for pitcher Edwin Jackson and infielder Mark Teahen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  