-- 
Yuan Declines for Third Day on Global Growth Slowdown Concern

-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-09-05T09:10:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/yuan-declines-for-third-day-on-global-growth-slowdown-concern.html
China ’s yuan fell for the third day
as fresh signs the global economic recovery is losing traction
dimmed the outlook for exports and curbed demand for emerging-
market assets.  Jobs growth in the U.S. unexpectedly stalled in August, the
country’s labor department said on Sept. 2. German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel ’s party lost an election in her home state,
fanning concern  Europe ’s major economies will back away from
bailing out smaller neighbors facing debt crises. Chinese export
orders contracted in August for the first time in two years,
according to the findings of a survey published Sept. 1 by the
China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing.  “U.S. and Europe’s poor economic outlook will exert
pressure on China’s exports as they remain the country’s major
export markets,” said Shen Jianguang, chief economist for
greater China at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. in Hong Kong.
“With a less certain export outlook, China faces more domestic
opposition to allow more currency gains.”  The yuan weakened 0.05 percent to close at 6.3858 per
dollar in  Shanghai , according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System. The People’s Bank of China set the  reference rate 
0.05 percent lower at 6.3926. The currency is allowed to trade
up to 0.5 percent on either side of the daily fixing.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan fell 0.1 percent
to 6.3595 per dollar. Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards
slipped 0.07 percent to 6.2868, a 1.6 percent premium to the
onshore spot rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China’s non-manufacturing industries expanded at a slower
pace last month, based on the findings of a China Federation of
Logistics and Purchasing survey published Sept. 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  