-- 
Zimbabwe’s Mugabe Will Die of Prostate Cancer in Two Years, WikiLeaks Says

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-09-05T12:34:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/zimbabwean-president-mugabe-dying-of-prostate-cancer-wikileaks-cable-says.html
Zimbabwean President  Robert Mugabe 
has prostate cancer that may kill him within two years, central
bank Governor Gideon Gono told the country’s U.S. ambassador,
according to a diplomatic cable posted by  WikiLeaks .  Gono told U.S. Ambassador to Zimbabwe James McGee in a June
2008 meeting that Mugabe was informed by his doctor he had
between three and five years to live because he was succumbing
to “prostate cancer that has metastasized,” according to the
cable.  WikiLeaks , which publishes secret government documents
online, posted the report on its website on Sept. 1.  Gono denied he is the source of the information when called
today by Bloomberg News. Mugabe’s spokesman  George Charamba 
didn’t answer two calls to his mobile phone, which didn’t accept
voice messages. The U.S. State Department doesn’t comment on any
“allegedly leaked documents,” Elizabeth Trudeau, a spokeswoman
for the U.S. embassy in  South Africa , said in an e-mailed
response to questions today.  Mugabe, 87, who has ruled Zimbabwe since independence in
1980, has traveled to  Singapore  several times this year for
cataract operations and follow-up treatment, the state-
controlled Herald newspaper reported on May 19, citing the
president.  Mugabe is pushing for the coalition government, set up in
2009 to share power between his party and the Movement for
Democratic Change, to hold elections this year. Prime Minister
 Morgan Tsvangirai , who is head of the MDC, and regional leaders
have opposed Mugabe’s move until the country has a new
constitution.  Zimbabwe is reversing a decade of recession triggered by
the collapse of farming when Mugabe’s government began seizing
white-owned commercial farms in 2000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  