-- 
Zoellick: Too Soon to Relax on China  Inflation

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-05T09:02:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-05/zoellick-says-it-s-too-soon-to-conclude-china-inflation-resolved.html
China ’s campaign to tame inflation
has helped ease price gains in the world’s second-biggest
economy although it’s too early to conclude the problem has been
resolved,  World Bank  President Robert Zoellick said.  Increased yuan appreciation and tighter credit have helped
to rein in prices, Zoellick said at a briefing in Beijing today.
Consumer prices probably climbed 6.2 percent last month, slowing
from a three-year high in July, according to a Bloomberg News
survey of 26 economists.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  reaffirmed last week that stabilizing
prices remains his top economic priority after a global stock
rout and faltering growth in the U.S. and  Europe  triggered
speculation he may start to unwind monetary tightening. Banks
including China International Capital Corp. and Credit Suisse AG
estimate the central bank may still raise  interest rates  by the
end of the year as inflationary pressure persists.  “The Chinese authorities are sensitive” to surging prices
“because if you look back into recent Chinese history,
inflation could be a very destabilizing element,” Zoellick
said. “It’s too early to conclude that this has been resolved,
but I think China is moving in the right direction.”  Consumer prices in China jumped 6.5 percent in July from a
year earlier, the most in three years, driven by a 14.8 percent
surge in food costs. The price of pork, the most consumed meat
in the world’s most populous nation, surged 57 percent in July
and June compared with the same period last year.  Threaten Social Stability  The ruling Communist Party is loath to allow high
inflation, according to Patrick Chovanec, a business professor
at  Tsinghua University  in Beijing. Inflation of around 20
percent was one reason protesters took to Tiananmen Square in
1989, he said in an interview in July.  Wen said in March that price gains, including
“exorbitant” increase in housing costs in some cities, have
the potential to undermine social stability.  The government doesn’t plan to alter the direction of
economic policies, Wen said in an article in the Party’s
official magazine  Qiushi  published on Sept. 1. Still, it needs
to make sure that past monetary policy tightening doesn’t damage
the real economy and that policies are forward looking, he said.  Inflation is not just an issue for China, Zoellick said
today, noting that  India  and emerging markets in  Southeast Asia 
are now having to slow down their economies.  “They have to strike a careful balance because at the same
time, the developed economies are struggling to grow, and that
will lower demand and ease inflation,” Zoellick said.  Higher Interest Rates  The People’s Bank of China has raised interest rates five
times since mid October and raised banks’ reserve requirements
nine times to a record 21.5 percent for the biggest lenders. In
the latest tightening banks, effective today, were told to
include margin deposits in calculations of their requirements.  The PBOC may raise interest rates one more time this year
as inflationary pressure persists, Peng Wensheng, chief
economist at Beijing-based investment bank CICC, said in a
research note today. Credit Suisse’s China economist Dong Tao
said in a Sept. 1 note he expects one more increase in benchmark
rates this year, taking the one-year lending rate to 6.81
percent and the deposit rate to 3.75 percent.  The central bank has allowed the yuan to rise more rapidly
over the past two months, helping to ease imported inflation.
The currency climbed 0.9 percent against the  U.S. dollar  in
August, the most since December. The yuan declined 0.05 percent
in  Shanghai  today to 6.3860 per dollar as of 4 p.m. on concern
the global economic recovery is losing traction.  Rebalancing the Economy  Zoellick said his discussions with Chinese officials during
his five-day visit to the country suggest that some policy
makers think a change in the  exchange rate  alone won’t be enough
to resolve the economy’s structural problems.  He reiterated his calls for China to rebalance its economy
away from a reliance on investment and exports by boosting
consumption.  “It’s hard to see the continued reliance of export and
investment-led growth will work for China over the next
decade,” Zoellick said. “That challenge becomes even clearer
if developed countries have a hard time resuming growth.”  Some economists say China’s tightening measures have gone
too far.  Wang Jian , a government researcher at an institute
affiliated with the National Development and Reform Commission,
said growth may slump to 7 percent or lower by the first quarter
of next year if the government doesn’t ease monetary policy
immediately.  Weakening Momentum  “We’ve come to a point where growth momentum is weakening
sharply because we’ve placed too much emphasis on fighting
inflation,” Wang said in an interview with internet portal
Hexun.com. Lending quotas should be eased and  money-supply 
growth should be expanded “as soon as possible” to at least 17
percent, he said. M2, the broadest measure of money supply grew
14.7 percent in July from a year earlier, the lowest in at least
six years, according to central bank data.  During his visit to China, Zoellick held talks with Vice
President  Xi Jinping , Vice Premiers Li Keqiang and Wang Qishan,
Finance Minister Xie Xuren, People’s Bank of China Governor Zhou
Xiaochuan, and  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  Chairman  Guo
Shuqing , the World Bank said in a statement. He also met Liu He,
deputy director of the office of the Central Leading Group on
Financial and Economic Affairs, who advises Premier Wen Jiabao
and President  Hu Jintao .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  