-- Manchester Utd. Rallies on Van Persie Goals to Beat Southampton
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-09-02T23:01:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/manchester-united-rallies-to-beat-southampton-3-2-in-league.html
Robin van Persie  scored a hat-trick
as  Manchester United  rallied late to win 3-2 at Southampton in
manager  Alex Ferguson ’s 1,000th league match in charge.  Southampton, back in English soccer’s Premier League for
the first time since 2005, twice led at St. Mary’s yesterday on
goals from Rickie Lambert and Morgan Schneiderlin. Van Persie,
who had a penalty saved when he attempted a chipped shot toward
the corner, got the winning goal in injury time.  “I don’t know what I was thinking about with the
penalty,” Van Persie told Sky Sports. “I wanted to hit it hard
as always, but changed my mind at the last second.”  In yesterday’s other matches, Arsenal won 2-0 at Liverpool
for its first victory of the season, and  Aston Villa  tied 1-1 at
Newcastle.  Chelsea leads the standings with nine points from three
matches, Swansea, West Bromwich Albion and  Manchester City  have
seven points, while United is among three teams on six points.  Southampton took the lead on 16 minutes after an opening
period in which United had pushed the home team back into its
own half without threatening the goal.  Schneiderlin cut out a pass from Tom Cleverley in the
center of the field and passed to Jason Puncheon who curled in a
cross from the right for Lambert to head into the net.  Seven Minutes  The advantage lasted only seven minutes before Van Persie
scored for a second straight game. The Dutchman chested down a
ball from Antonio Valencia before striking a shot past Kelvin
Davis.  Van Persie  curled a freekick wide and Patrice Evra had a
headed effort, but United struggled to create many more chances
before halftime as the Saints held firm.  Shinji Kagawa and Van Persie both hit shots wide in the
opening few minutes of the second half before Southampton re-
established its lead after 55 minutes.  Evra slipped, leaving Schneiderlin unmarked 10 yards out to
head past Anders Lindegaard. United’s goalkeeper made a low save
at his near post three minutes later to stop the Saints from
scoring again.  “Southampton kept crossing the ball and scored two goals
from crosses, which is disappointing, but credit to them, they
are good at it,” Ferguson told  Sky Sports .  Van Persie was United’s main attacking threat and he had an
opportunity to tie the game for a second time when his team was
awarded a penalty kick in the 69th minute. The Dutchman tried to
chip the ball over Davis, who dived the correct way and turned
it around the post.  Southampton was enjoying a spell of possession and appeared
as likely to increase its lead as allow a goal from record 19-
time league champion United.  United Levels  United was finally level with three minutes remaining when
 Rio Ferdinand  headed against a post and Van Persie followed up
to score.  The visitors pressed forward for a winning goal and two
minutes into stoppage time Van Persie headed in his fourth goal
in three matches since joining from Arsenal. It gave Ferguson a
599th league win with the club.  The defeat leaves the Saints as the only team yet to score
a point in the Premier League this season.  At Anfield, Arsenal’s new signings Lukas Podolski and Santi Cazorla scored to send the hosts stumbling to their worst league
start in 50 years.  Podolski’s left-foot strike went past Liverpool goalkeeper
Pepe Reina in the 31st minute for the Gunners’ first goal of the
season. Cazorla’s shot snuck under the keeper in the 68th
minute.  Poor Start  Liverpool is among four teams with only one point, which
matches the start from the 1962-63 season as the worst in the
club’s history.  For Arsenal, which started with two 0-0 draws, it was the
first time in 88 years the team hasn’t allowed a goal in its
first three matches.  “The sharpness gets better from game to game,” Arsenal
manager  Arsene Wenger  told reporters. “Overall we looked
solid.”  Aston Villa secured its first point with a Ciaran Clark
goal at Newcastle, which replied in the second half from a
powerful shot by Hatem Ben Arfa.  Two days ago, Manchester City beat Queens Park Rangers 3-1,
West Ham defeated Fulham 3-0, and Tottenham was held to a 1-1
home draw by Norwich. West Bromwich Albion won 2-0 against
Everton, while the matches between Swansea and Sunderland, and
Wigan and Stoke, finished as 2-2 draws.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 