-- With Romneys in Their Midst Mormons Cheer Attention to Faith
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-09-03T04:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/at-church-with-romney-mormons-cheer-attention-to-their-faith.html
Among  Mitt Romney ’s advisers and
family members, a debate has continued over whether his Mormon
faith is a political negative or positive for him. Among members
of his church, there’s little dispute: Having Romney as the
Republican presidential nominee has been a boon to their
religion.  As Romney and his wife, Ann, sat in church yesterday in
Wolfeboro,  New Hampshire , congregants giving their monthly
testimonials spoke about how his candidacy has helped the  Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints  by introducing the U.S.
public to role models who reflect well on the religion.  “There has never been as much positive publicity about the
church,” John Willard “Bill” Marriott, chairman of Marriott
International Inc., said during his testimony, “thanks to the
wonderful campaign of Mitt Romney and his family.”  In recent weeks, he said, “we see the church coming out of
obscurity, and we see that 90 percent of what has been written
and said” has been “favorable.”  “That’s a great tribute to Mitt and Ann and their family
for living such an exemplary life,” Marriott said. With the new
attention, “Everybody is looking at us and saying, ‘Are you as
good as the Romneys?’” he said.  2007 Speech  Romney’s Mormon religion has been viewed with varying
degrees of skepticism by evangelical Christians, some of whom
consider it a non-Christian cult. He addressed it in a 2007
speech during his first presidential run, while staying
relatively quiet about it this year -- until the  Republican
National Convention  last week when he alluded to his Mormon
faith during his nomination acceptance speech and his campaign
gave speaking roles to church members who he helped when he was
a bishop in the 1980s.  It was part of an effort to humanize Romney, a former
private-equity company chief executive, as he introduces himself
to a broader swath of voters and to counteract his image as
aloof and out of touch with the concerns of ordinary Americans.  A  poll  for the Pew Research Center released in July showed
41 percent were comfortable with Romney’s religious faith, with
13 percent saying they were uncomfortable with it. Thirty-two
percent said they didn’t know of Romney’s religion, while 14
percent said it didn’t matter.  A church member who followed Marriott’s testimonial
yesterday and didn’t identify himself praised the Mormons who
spoke about Romney at the convention, saying they “represented
us so well, and the teachings and the doctrines of the church.”  ‘Real Deal’  He said people often approach him and ask if he knows
Romney. “I say, ‘Yeah, he’s the real deal, he really is. You
should support him.’ I think he’s a marvelous ambassador of who
we are.”  Another man who got up to speak without identifying himself
said he was pleased to see people of other churches embrace a
Mormon.  “Never in my life did I think I would ever see -- as I’m
watching the RNC --I would never see a Catholic get up and say
that a Mormon is just as good as any Catholic,” he said, an
apparent reference to Romney’s vice presidential running mate,
Representative  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin .  Ryan said in his acceptance speech last week that while he
and Romney go to different churches, they share the same “moral
creed.”  Scrutiny of Mormonism hasn’t always been welcome, Marriott
said yesterday, noting that when the television news magazine
program “60 Minutes” did a special about the religion in the
1990s, there was concern in the church about how public
attention would reflect on it. Marriott participated in a 45-
minute interview for the program, and he said the only portion
that aired concerned the special underwear Mormons wear.  Boating Accident  Asked about the temple garments -- which he described as
like a t-shirt and boxer shorts -- Marriott related a story
about a boating accident in which his polyester pants burned off
but the portions of his body protected by his special
undergarments were spared.  “Those holy undergarments saved my life,” he said.  A woman calling herself Sister Goodall told about visiting
a church member in a nursing home recently and being asked by an
employee whether she was a family member of the patient. When
Goodall said she was a friend from the Church of  Jesus Christ  of
Latter-day Saints, the employee’s face brightened and she
replied, “Oh, Mormons. Oh, Mitt!”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington
at  at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  