-- Australia Carbon Price Seen Lower After Floor Scrapped, CMI Says
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2012-09-02T02:25:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/australia-carbon-price-seen-lower-after-floor-scrapped-cmi-says.html
Australia ’s decision to abandon
setting a minimum rate for carbon permits and instead linking it
to the European Union market by mid-2015 will mean a lower price
for carbon, the Carbon Market Institute said.  “Not having a floor price means, presuming that the price
does ease off, we have a lower cost of compliance with the
carbon tax,” Chairman Les Hosking told Australian Broadcasting
Corp.’s Inside Business today. “In 2015, it means that we have
a lower price for carbon.”  EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  and Australia’s
Climate Minister  Greg Combet  announced plans to link the two
markets on Aug. 28. To facilitate the connection, Australia
agreed to scrap a planned floor price and set a new “sub-
limit” on the use of United Nations-sponsored emission credits.  “Artificial prices do not work, they do not eliminate
volatility and uncertainty and risk, they actually increase
it,”  Hosking  said. Still, “linking the market to a market
which is in a volatile environment itself doesn’t look as though
it’s an exact solution and doesn’t really solve the problem of
 carbon emissions .”  Combet said Aug. 28 the two programs will have their first
links as of July 1, 2015, and a full tie-in three years later.
Businesses will be able to buy carbon units immediately from the
EU system to comply with Australia’s new emission restrictions,
he said.  Biggest Polluters  Australia’s fixed price on carbon was set at A$23 ($23.74)
a metric ton for about 300 of its largest polluters on July 1
and it will rise at a predetermined-rate of 2.5 percent a year
in real terms until 2015. The Australian law set a minimum price
for the market phase starting at A$15 in 2015. EU permits for
December delivery closed at 8.08 euros ($10.16) on Aug. 31.  The carbon price is Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s main
tool for reducing Australia’s reliance on coal and meeting its
target for a 5 percent cut in greenhouse gas emissions from 2000
levels by 2020.  The EU created its carbon market in 2005 as a key tool to
reduce  greenhouse gases  and has repeatedly said that it is
committed to have an international network of linked emissions
trading programs by the middle of this decade. In Australia,
Gillard has struggled to defend a carbon price more than twice
as high as the one in  Europe , which runs the world’s biggest
cap-and-trade plan.  The proposed linking of the EU and Australian greenhouse-
gas-reduction programs will demonstrate to policy makers across
the world that carbon markets can help address climate change,
 Andrei Marcu , head of the Centre for European Policy Studies’
Carbon Market Forum in Brussels, said Aug. 29.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  