-- Australian Manufacturing Contracted at Slower Pace in August
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-09-02T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/australian-manufacturing-contracted-at-slower-pace-in-august.html
Australian  manufacturing  contracted
at a slower pace in August as production and new orders improved
while food-and-beverage and furniture industries expanded, a
private gauge showed.  The  manufacturing index  rose to 45.3 last month from 40.3
in July, the Australian Industry Group and
PricewaterhouseCoopers said in a survey released today. A
reading below 50 indicates a contraction.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  will leave
the nation’s benchmark interest rate unchanged at 3.5 percent,
economists said in a Bloomberg survey before tomorrow’s
decision. Resource investment to meet Chinese demand and foreign
investment funds seeking a haven have spurred gains in the
nation’s currency, which closed above parity with the  U.S.
dollar  for all but 23 days this year.  “Manufacturing conditions continue to be very challenging
across the sector with the high dollar and weakness in demand in
the domestic and export markets weighing on growth,” Innes Willox, chief executive officer at AIG, said in a statement.
“There are some encouraging signs in the August Australian PMI
with the production sub-index lifting and the forward-looking
new orders sub-index rising strongly.”  The manufacturing index’s reading on wages dropped 6.2
points to 65.2 last month while inventories rose 3.3 points to
49.1, today’s report showed. Supplier deliveries edged up 1.8
point to 44.2.  A gauge of employment rose 2.3 points to 41.2 in August,
while new orders surged 8.7 points to 49.1, the report showed.
The production measure advanced 5.3 points to 43.1.  The manufacturing survey, which is similar to the U.S.
Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc.’s factory index,
polled more than 200 companies about production, new orders,
deliveries, inventories and employment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  