-- Australia to Stay in Afghanistan After Worst Day Since Vietnam
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2012-09-02T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/australia-to-stay-in-afghanistan-after-worst-day-since-vietnam.html
Australia  won’t withdraw from
Afghanistan earlier than planned after suffering the most
casualties in a single day since the  Vietnam War , Foreign
Minister Bob Carr said, stressing its commitment as U.S.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  visited the Pacific region.  “The choice here is between a planned, phased withdrawal
and a sudden rush to get out that would be very disruptive,”
Carr said on Sky News’s Australian Agenda program yesterday.
“We’ve got a chance to leave a functioning Afghan state.”  Three Australian soldiers representing the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization-led International Security Assistance Force
were killed by a gunman wearing the uniform of the Afghan
National Army last week, on the same day that two soldiers died
when their helicopter crashed.  The U.S. and its allies plan to hand over security to
Afghan forces by the end of 2014. Australia, which has about
1,500 soldiers in  Afghanistan , intends to withdraw most of those
troops by as early as mid-2013.  “Australia making a dash for it would do our reputation
great harm,” Carr said. “It’s not part of the Australian
character to bolt from an alliance.”  Australia has lost 38 soldiers in Afghanistan, according to
government figures. The shooting took place in Uruzgan province
in southern Afghanistan and is now under investigation, ISAF
said Aug. 30. The helicopter crashed in Helmand province.  NATO Partnership  So-called insider attacks on NATO and ISAF personnel are
increasing, with at least 40 coalition deaths this year compared
with 35 in all of 2011, according to ISAF. Afghan President
 Hamid Karzai  has blamed such attacks on efforts by neighboring
 Pakistan  and  Iran  to undermine the U.S. and NATO’s partnership
with Afghanistan.  “There’s no appetite to stay there a day longer than we
need to,” Carr said. A handover to Afghan forces in Uruzgan
province may take 12 months to 18 months, he said.  Hillary Clinton visited the Pacific region to underscore
U.S. commitment to security and development, attending the
Pacific Islands Forum in Rarotonga,  Cook Islands  on Aug. 31.
Gillard left the forum early to return to Australia after the
deaths of the soldiers. The government will fulfill its
commitments in Afghanistan, she said last week.  In comments directed to Gillard and New Zealand Prime
Minister John Key, Clinton expressed gratitude to both nations
for the sacrifices of their soldiers and civilians who have
served in the NATO-led coalition in Afghanistan.  While the loss of life is dispiriting, Clinton said Aug. 31,
the U.S. and its partners are “determined to see this
through,” because “we cannot afford to see Afghanistan turn
back into a haven that threatens us all.”  Vietnam War  Five New Zealand soldiers were killed in Afghanistan last
month, raising that nation’s death toll in the conflict to 10.  Australia’s involvement in the  Vietnam  war lasted from 1962
to 1972, its longest major conflict. The  Royal Australian Air Force  sent personnel back to Vietnam in 1975 to assist in
evacuations and humanitarian work during the war’s final days,
according to the Australian  government . About 60,000 Australians
were involved in the conflict and more than 500 killed.  In the early 1970s, more than 200,000 people marched in the
streets of Australia’s major cities to protest the war and use
of conscripts. Australia introduced the National Service Scheme
in November 1964 based on a  birthday ballot  of 20-year-old men
who had registered with the Department of Labour and National
Service. It was suspended in 1972.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  