-- Barclays’ Azar Sees Pick-Up in Middle East M&A, Fee Income
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2012-09-03T08:40:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/barclays-azar-sees-pick-up-in-middle-east-deals-and-fee-income.html
Middle East  merger and acquisition
deals will probably rise in the next year as sovereign wealth
funds look for ways to spend cash from oil sales and regional
companies seek expansion, a  Barclays Plc (BARC)  executive said.  M&A activity is “picking up and our deal pipeline feels
much better than two or three years ago,” Makram Azar, vice
chairman of investment banking at Barclays, said in an interview
at the bank’s Dubai offices on Aug. 30. Sovereign wealth funds
“need to put their cash to work, particularly outside the
region, in emerging and high growth markets or in opportunistic
deals in Europe where valuations are depressed,” he said.  A total of 194 M&A deals worth $29.7 billion have been
announced in the Middle East and North  Africa  so far this year,
down 5.3 percent from 219 deals worth $31.4 billion in the same
period last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Barclays, the second-ranked arranger of M&A deals in the region,
is advising Qatar Telecom QSC on its $2.2 billion purchase of a
47.5 percent stake in Kuwait’s  National Mobile Telecom Co. (NMTC)  and
also managed the $1.4 billion acquisition by Qatar Investment
Authority of a 20 percent stake in BAA Ltd.  The London-based bank’s fees from mergers and acquisitions
advisory services “will be higher than last year’s,” Azar
said, without giving more details on expected earnings.  Oil Production  Countries in the Middle East, including Saudi Arabia, the
United Arab Emirates, Qatar and Kuwait, pump more than 20
percent of the world’s oil. In March, Mubadala Development Co.
PJSC, the Abu Dhabi investment fund, announced it will pay $2
billion for a 5.63 percent preferred equity interest in
Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista ’s EBX Group Co. to help
diversify investments, while Qatari sovereign funds have been
acquiring assets in companies such as Swiss miner  Xstrata Plc. (XTA)   Several Middle East companies are being “selectively
active about acquisitions after digesting the impact of the
credit crisis and cleaning up their balance sheets,” Azar said.  Barclays rose 0.2 percent to 183.60 pence in London as of
9:38 a.m. local time and gained about 5 percent this year.  Qatar National Bank SAQ (QNBK) , the Persian Gulf country’s biggest
bank by assets, is in talks to buy a majority stake in Societe
General SA’s Egyptian unit,  National Societe Generale Bank SAE (NSGB) ,
the Cairo-based bank said Aug. 30. Societe Generale owns 77.2
percent of its Egyptian unit that has a value of 11.9 billion
Egyptian pounds ($1.9 billion), Bloomberg data shows.  Qatar Bank  Qatar National also increased its stake in the U.A.E.’s
 Commercial Bank International PSC (CBI)  to 39.9 percent from 16.5
percent, CBI said Aug. 30, a deal worth about $75 million.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  is the top M&A advisor in the
Middle East and Africa and globally this year, according to
Bloomberg data. The value of announced M&A deals globally has
declined 32 percent in 2012 to $1.38 trillion, the data shows.  Barclays named  Antony Jenkins , the head of its consumer
business, as chief executive officer on Aug. 30. Jenkins said
that day he would “think strategically” about the investment
bank’s future given regulatory pressures, and that the division
had a “very good team.” Barclays is replacing some senior
managers, including former CEO  Robert Diamond  and Chairman
Marcus Agius, after politicians, shareholders and regulators
accused the bank of having a culture of aggressively
interpreting regulations and failing to stop wrongdoing.  Investment Bank  Diamond, who built Barclays’s investment bank into the
world’s biggest global bond underwriter, resigned in July after
the bank was fined 290 million pounds ($459 million) by U.S. and
U.K. regulators for attempting to rig the London interbank
offered rate. With increased regulation from  Europe  and the
U.K., volatile market conditions for mergers and acquisitions
and continuing criticism of bankers’ pay by politicians,
Barclays has faced calls from analysts and shareholders to
either sell the division or reduce its size.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ; or
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  