-- Big Banks Are Hazardous to U.S. Financial Health
-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 2012-09-02T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/big-banks-are-hazardous-to-u-s-financial-health.html
The debate over whether the U.S.’s
largest banks are too big is heating up. Since the 2008
financial crisis, the perception has taken hold among some
analysts and economists that certain U.S. institutions are too
big to fail, meaning they would have to be bailed out to protect
the financial system in the event of another calamity.  The recent trading losses at JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
scandals over money laundering at HSBC Holdings Plc and Standard
Chartered Plc have prompted even financial-industry insiders to
ask whether these complex global organizations are too big to
manage.  The continued downward spiral in  Europe  raises a similar
question: Are some banks too big to save, meaning their collapse
could dramatically worsen the euro crisis (as happened in
Ireland in the fall of 2008 and is happening now in  Spain  and
 Greece )?  The critics must be gaining converts because, in recent
weeks, the defenders of large banks have started to push back.
William B. Harrison Jr., the former chairman of JPMorgan, and
 Wayne Abernathy , the executive vice president of the  American
Bankers Association , both  wrote   op-eds  that argue against
breaking up banks. The Financial Services Roundtable, a large-
bank lobby group, has circulated two  e-mails  insisting that the
critics’ arguments are based entirely on  myths .  Three Claims  The big-bank proponents make three main claims about bank
size; none is convincing when one considers the facts.  First, Harrison argues that growth in banks’ size in recent
decades was purely market-driven, in the sense that no
government subsidies were (or are) involved. He neglects to
mention that this growth is largely a much more recent
phenomenon.  In 1995, the Big Six -- JPMorgan, Bank of America Corp.,
Citigroup Inc.,  Wells Fargo & Co ., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Morgan Stanley -- had assets worth only 17 percent of U.S. gross
domestic product. As recently as 2005, their collective balance
sheets were valued at less than 50 percent of GDP.  Today, the Big Six are much bigger, with combined assets of
60 percent of GDP. Their size, relative to the economy, isn’t as
great as that of some German and U.K. banks, but that doesn’t
mean the U.S. is safer -- only that Europe’s problem is worse.
Ironically, the biggest U.S. banks got even bigger, and more
dangerous, through acquisitions and government-encouraged
mergers in the 2008 crisis.  Harrison and the others claim that the increase in bank
size is driven by the demands of international trade in general
and the specific needs of large, globe-spanning corporate
clients. But international trade boomed for many years after
World War II without bank sizes increasing relative to the size
of the  U.S. economy .  When I talk to executives at multinational companies, they
stress the need to buy financial services from a number of
providers. It wouldn’t be good business practice, they say, to
rely too much on one megabank. Bond issues, loans, payment
processing and other financial services are handled across
multiple banks.  The big development since 1995 had little to do with global
trade and a lot to do with deregulation, which resulted from
intense lobbying by powerful financial figures such as Sanford Weill, the former Citigroup chief executive officer. Weill
championed the repeal of the Depression-era  Glass-Steagall Act 
that separated  investment banking  from  depository institutions ,
allowing him to create Citigroup as a banking supermarket. But
Weill in July said he now believes investment banks should be
kept separate from commercial banks.  Big Six  Besides, does anyone seriously think that any
administration would allow another Lehman-type failure? Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. had assets of about $640 billion when it
went bankrupt; Bear Stearns Cos. was slightly smaller at its
peak. All of the Big Six are currently larger than either
investment bank was when it failed.  Due to this implicit protection, most analysts estimate
that too-big-to-fail banks can borrow for about 50 basis points,
or 0.5 percentage point, less than financial firms that aren’t
effectively backed by the government.  The bigger these subsidized institutions become, the more
likely they are to receive government support in times of
distress. Implicit subsidies increase as the systemic importance
of a bank rises, creating more incentive for management to talk
up the social value of their bank becoming even larger.  All of this is really about privatizing the benefits when
things go well and socializing the costs when things go poorly.
No one has found measurable economies of scale or scope for
banks with more than $100 billion in total assets, yet four of
the Big Six have balance sheets exceeding $1 trillion. Global
megabanks have become a huge, nontransparent and dangerous
government-subsidy program.  Second, the Financial Services Roundtable baldly states
that the U.S. doesn’t have the largest banks in the world.  This isn’t true if we do the comparison properly. Under
U.S. accounting rules, JPMorgan has a balance sheet with
slightly more than $2 trillion in assets. As I explained in an
earlier  column , several non-U.S. banks are larger but they use
international accounting standards, which don’t allow as much
“netting” of derivatives positions as U.S. accounting rules do.
Netting allows banks to report smaller liabilities on their
balance sheets.  My colleague at  Massachusetts Institute of Technology , John Parsons, and I converted JPMorgan’s balance sheet to
international rules and found that the assets would grow to
almost $4 trillion. Measured this way, JPMorgan and Bank of
America are the largest banks in the world, and at least 50
percent larger than their nearest non-U.S. rivals.  Third, the roundtable points out that some other countries’
banks are bigger as a percentage of their domestic economies
than is the case in the U.S.  Excessive Risks  This is true, but think about the problems some European
countries have encountered because of the excessive risks their
banks took: Iceland’s economy collapsed and needed an
international bailout; Ireland rescued its banks but the fiscal
disaster that followed ended in a bailout; and Spain, in a
downward spiral at the moment, is seeking a bailout for its
banks.  Large financial institutions in countries such as Greece,
Italy and  France  pose a systemic risk to their governments --
and perhaps to the euro area, as well.  Do you really think big banks have been well-managed in
Japan or  Germany ? Look at the exposure of German banks to
troubled euro-area governments. And please don’t bring up  Canada 
unless you are willing to discuss the full panoply of government
support provided to its banks in general and during the 2008-09
crisis, in particular. Even  Switzerland , sometimes synonymous
with the phrase “powerful banker,” is trying to get its largest
banks, UBS AG and Credit Suisse Group AG, to scale back and
reduce the risks they pose to Swiss taxpayers.  None of these countries offers an appealing model for the
U.S., which should go in the other direction and roll back
recent increases in bank size. The U.S. nonfinancial sector
worked fine in the mid-1990s, including its ability to run
global supply chains and to generate productivity increases.  The U.S. should make its largest banks small and simple
enough to fail without government or central-bank intervention.
End their subsidies now.  ( Simon Johnson , a professor at the  MIT Sloan School of
Management  as well as a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute
for International Economics, is  co-author  of “White House
Burning: The Founding Fathers, Our National Debt, and Why It
Matters to You.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on unglamorous but  successful
job-creation programs  and on the  latest Iran nuclear report ;
 Albert R. Hunt  on  Barack Obama’s second-term persona ; Simon
Johnson on the  perils of big banks ;  Pankaj Mishra  on the  rebirth
of the Nonaligned Movement .  To contact the writer of this article:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Paula Dwyer  at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net  