-- Blast Rocks Damascus, Targets Military Unit, Syria TV Says
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2012-09-02T12:51:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/blast-rocks-damascus-targets-military-unit-syria-tv-says-1-.html
A blast rocked an area near a
military guard unit in Damascus, Syrian state television
reported, calling it a “terrorist” attack as government forces
and rebels battle for control of airbases across the country.  Two explosive devices were used in the attack on al-Mahdi
St. in the Abou Remaneh area and wounded four people, the  Syrian
Arab News Agency  reported on its website, without saying where
it got the information. Al Arabiya television, citing a rebel
group, said the bombing targeted the Syrian army’s command.  Syrian forces have struggled to maintain security in the
country’s capital after rebels pushed into neighborhoods in July
as they try to oust President Bashar al-Assad. A bomb attack
that month killed key members of Assad’s military establishment,
including his brother-in-law, Major General Assef Shawkat, and
Defense Minister Dawoud Rajhah in the capital.  Syrian forces killed 27 people today, while 12 soldiers
died in the fighting, the Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights 
said in an e-mailed statement. More than 23,000 people have died
since the uprising against Assad began in March last year,
according to the observatory.  Airbase Attacks  Rebels have turned their attacks against airbases as they
try to reduce the strength of the government’s air power being
deployed against them. Fighting continued today around the
perimeter of the Abu Zhuhoor military airport in the northern
province of Idlib, the observatory said in an e-mail.  Rebels detained more than 16 members of Syrian armed forces
after storming a building in the city of Bukmal in Deir Ezzour
province near  Iraq ’s border, the U.K.-based group said on its
Facebook page yesterday. Those captured included officers and
regular conscripts, the group said.  The Syrian army clashed with rebels in the provinces of
Hama and Homs and conducted raids in Aleppo, the  Syrian Arab
News Agency  reported, citing its own reporters. A car bomb
explosion in the Damascus suburb of Sabina killed at least 15
civilians in a Palestinian refugee camp, Middle East News Agency
reported earlier today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  