-- Buyout Firms Said to Be Probed by N.Y. Over Tax Tactic
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-09-02T20:08:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/buyout-firms-said-to-be-probed-by-n-y-over-tax-tactic.html
Bain Capital  LLC and  Apollo Global
Management LLC (APO)  are among private-equity firms subpoenaed by New
York’s attorney general in an investigation into whether they
are depriving the state of  tax revenue , according to two people
familiar with the matter.  New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman is probing a
practice that reduces tax liability of the buyout firms by
converting management fees paid by their investors into fund
investments, which are taxed at a lower rate, said the people,
who asked not to be identified because the investigation hasn’t
been disclosed publicly.  At least a dozen firms were subpoenaed in July, one of the
people said. Other firms that received subpoenas include  KKR &
Co. (KKR) , TPG Capital, Silver Lake and Providence Equity Partners
Inc.  The investigation is being conducted by Schneiderman’s
taxpayer protection bureau, the New York Times reported
yesterday. Michelle Duffy, a spokeswoman for Schneiderman,
declined to comment on the investigation.  Charles Zehren , a spokesman for Apollo at Howard J.
Rubenstein Associates;  Kristi Huller , a spokeswoman for KKR;
 Owen Blicksilver , a spokesman for TPG at Owen Blicksilver Public
Relations Inc.; Gemma Hart, a spokeswoman for Silver Lake at
Brunswick Group Inc.; and Jonathan Doorley, a spokesman for
Providence Equity at Sard Verbinnen & Co., declined to comment.
Alex Stanton, a spokesman for Bain at Stanton Public Relations &
Marketing, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail yesterday
seeking comment.  Carried Interest  Private-equity firms raise money from investors such as
pension funds and endowments and combine it with loans to
acquire companies. Their goal is to improve performance,
sometimes by cutting jobs, and sell the companies for a profit
within about five years.  The firms collect management fees from investors, usually
about 2 percent of assets, and take a cut of investment profits,
known as carried interest, that averages about 20 percent.  At issue in the  New York  investigation is that some firms
convert the fees, which are taxed as ordinary income at rates as
high as 35 percent, into a stake in a fund whose carried
interest is taxed as  capital gains  at 15 percent, said the
person.  By deferring the receipt of fees, buyout firms get a second
benefit by deferring the tax. While the partners are well-
positioned to know what investments may be winners, the waiver
is irrevocable, meaning the fees disappear if the deals don’t
generate profit.  The tactic hasn’t been deemed a violation of federal tax
laws.  Bain Fund  Bain Capital Fund VII LP disclosed in a 2009 report that
the general partner in the fund had in the past waived
management fees and converted those fees into an interest in the
fund called a “priority profit share.”  Mitt Romney , the Republican presidential candidate,
invested in some Bain funds that employed the fee-conversion
strategy. Romney, who co-founded Bain in 1984, was able to put
money into the funds after he left in 1999 to oversee the Salt
Lake City Olympics and later serve as governor of Massachusetts.  “Investing fee income is a common, accepted and totally
legal practice,” Brad Malt, a partner at Ropes & Gray LLP in
Boston who manages Romney’s investments and oversees his family
trust, said in an e-mailed statement. “However,
Governor Romney’s retirement agreement did not give the blind
trust or him the right to do this, and I can confirm that
neither he nor the trust has ever done this, whether before or
after he retired from Bain Capital.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  