-- Cameron Urged by EEF to Step Up Aid as U.K. Economy Shrinks
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-09-02T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/cameron-urged-by-eef-to-step-up-aid-as-u-k-economy-shrinks.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
government should enhance its growth strategy as the British
economy heads for its first full-year contraction since 2009,
the Engineering Employers’ Federation said.  Gross domestic product  will fall 0.2 this year and rise 1.4
percent in 2013, the London-based manufacturing lobby group said
in a report published today. It previously estimated growth of
0.3 percent and 1.8 percent respectively. A quarterly survey
showed factory output and orders dropped to their lowest levels
in almost three years, the EEF said.  Bank of  England  policy makers will maintain their
quantitative-easing target this week as the euro-area debt
crisis and the largest budget reductions since World War II
undermine confidence, economists say. Calls for Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  to do more to spur the economy
intensified after the recession deepened in the second quarter.  “What our members are looking for is something from the
government on growth that will match its determination on
 deficit reduction ,” EEF Chief Economist  Lee Hopley  said in an
interview on Aug. 31. Still, “there’s not a lot the government
can do on the external factors bearing down on confidence.”  The Bank of England last month abandoned its forecast of
growth this year and said the outlook is “unusually uncertain”
after the economy shrank 0.5 percent in the three months through
June. Gauges of manufacturing and services fell in July,
indicating a weak start to the third quarter.  The  Confederation of British Industry  and the British
Chambers of Commerce both urged the government to act on growth
last week as they forecast the economy will contract this year.  Manufacturing Declines  Of 369  manufacturers  questioned between Aug. 1 and Aug. 22,
the number saying sales rose in the past three months exceeded
those reporting declines by 4 percentage points, the weakest
reading in three years, the EEF and accountancy company BDO LLP
said in the quarterly survey. That compares with 20 points in
the last survey published in June.  A gauge of domestic orders fell 15 points to minus 6, while
a measure of export orders dropped 9 points to 2.  Manufacturing output will shrink 1.5 percent this year
before growing by a similar amount in 2013, the EEF said. The
lobby group previously estimated growth of 0.1 percent and 2.2
percent respectively, Hopley said.  A separate survey by Lloyds Bank showed that for the first
time in three months more U.K. companies were  optimistic  than
pessimistic about the economic outlook. The index of sentiment
rose to 10 in August from minus 8 in July, the third consecutive
monthly increase, the unit of Lloyds Banking Group Plc said.  The upturn is “still at a low level by historical
standards and suggests lackluster underlying activity into the
end of the year,” it said. The bank surveyed 300 companies with
sales exceeding 1 million pounds ($1.59 million) between Aug. 6
and Aug. 17.  The  Bank of England , which will complete a 50 billion-pound
round of bond purchases in November, will maintain its QE target
at 375 billion pounds, according to 38 out of 39 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. Policy makers will also leave their
 benchmark interest rate  at a record-low 0.5 percent, all 51
economists said in a separate poll. The decisions will be
announced at noon on Sept. 6 in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig  Stirling  at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  