-- China Deterioration Raises Risk of Wen Missing Target: Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-03T07:28:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/china-economy-s-deterioration-raises-risk-of-wen-missing-target.html
China’s economy  is showing mounting
signs of deterioration from manufacturers to banks, raising the
risk that outgoing Premier  Wen Jiabao  will miss his growth
target for the first time since taking office in 2003.  Manufacturing slowed further in August, surveys of
 purchasing managers  showed Sept. 1 and today, with one gauge at
the lowest level since March 2009. The readings added to
evidence of weakness after a surfeit of unsold goods left near-
record rubber stocks at  China ’s main hub for the commodity and
financial strains saw a 27 percent jump in overdue loans at the
five biggest banks in the first half.  China hasn’t failed to exceed the Communist Party’s annual
growth target since the throes of the Asian financial crisis in
1998, and a miss of this year’s 7.5 percent goal may complicate
a once-a-decade leadership handover. The outgoing generation of
policy makers has held back on stimulus this year as it seeks to
rein in a property-market boom and avoid a jump in bad debt.  “If there is no further policy response, it’s very likely
that GDP growth will fall below the target and this
administration will likely hand over a hard-landing economy to
the next one,” said Liu Li-Gang, chief China economist at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in  Hong Kong . The
central bank should “revert to cutting banks’ reserve
requirements more aggressively to revitalize the economy. If we
have a cut soon we could have good fourth-quarter growth.”  Financial Strains  The risk of below-7-percent  expansion  could potentially
trigger financial distress or even a crisis if local governments
run out of money, said Liu, who has worked for the  World Bank 
and Hong Kong Monetary Authority. Underscoring a buildup in
strains, Construction Bank Corp. reported its overdue loans in
the eastern manufacturing and export hub of the  Yangtze River
Delta  doubled to 16.8 billion yuan ($2.6 billion).  Liu cut his estimate for full-year expansion to 7.8 percent
from 8.2 percent after the release of the official manufacturing
purchasing managers index. The gauge fell to 49.2 from 50.1 in
July, below the estimates of 24 of the 25 analysts in a
Bloomberg News survey. The dividing line between expansion and
contraction is 50.  A separate manufacturing PMI released today by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics was at 47.6, indicating the
fastest contraction in more than three years, with an employment
index at a 41-month low. A government services PMI showed a
faster expansion in August.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) , China’s benchmark stock gauge,
rose 0.6 percent today. It fell 2 percent last week to the
lowest level since February 2009, and is heading for its first
three straight years of annual declines since the  Shanghai Stock
Exchange  opened in December 1990.  Yuan Drop  The yuan, which has weakened 0.9 percent this year, is on
pace for its second annual decline since the country overhauled
the exchange-rate system in 2005 and removed a peg to the  U.S.
dollar .  ANZ is the latest bank to lower its growth forecast. Mizuho
Securities  Asia  Ltd. on Aug. 31 cut its projection to 7.6
percent from 8.1 percent while Bank of America Corp. reduced its
estimate last month to 7.7 percent from 8 percent.  Asia’s next two largest economies are also showing signs of
slowing.  Japan ’s industrial production unexpectedly slumped in
July, data showed Aug. 31.  India  reported the same day that its
gross domestic product increased 5.5 percent last quarter from a
year ago, down from an 8 percent pace in the same period in 2011.  India today said exports in July dropped 14.8 percent from
a year earlier, while imports declined 7.6 percent. Australian
retail sales unexpectedly declined in July by the most in almost
two years, data today showed.  Inflation Pressures  The slowdown in growth has dissipated inflation pressures,
with South Korea today reporting consumer prices rose 1.2
percent in August from a year before, down from the 1.5 percent
increase the previous month. Thailand’s inflation rate slowed to
2.69 percent in August from 2.73 percent in July. Indonesia’s
core inflation rate fell to 4.16 percent from 4.28 percent,
while total inflation held below 4.6 percent.  A gauge of euro-area manufacturing may confirm a
contraction for a 13th straight month in August. The U.S.
observes its Labor Day holiday today. Three days ago, Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled he’s prepared to
deploy additional asset purchases amid an American  unemployment
rate  that’s “far above” the Fed’s mandate.  Economic growth has slowed for six  quarters  to 7.6 percent
in the three months through June from 9.8 percent in the fourth
quarter of 2010 as  Europe ’s debt crisis crimped exports and a
prolonged crackdown on property speculation damped domestic
demand.  Further Measures  The slowing will continue this quarter to 7.4 percent,
according to Lu Ting, at Bank of America in Hong Kong, the No. 1
forecaster on China in Bloomberg Markets’ annual ranking of
global economists for the two years through September 2011. He
said there’s a risk the full-year rate will be below 7.5 percent,
and growth may miss his forecast if the government “fails to
roll out further policy measures in the next few months.”  Growth averaged 10.9 percent from 2005 to 2011 when the
target was 8 percent and was as high as 14.2 percent in 2007.
The government set a goal of an average 7 percent expansion for
the five-year plan that runs through 2015.  Industrial companies’ earnings fell in July by the most
this year, according to government data. The nation’s
steelmakers posted a 96 percent drop in first-half profit as
demand weakened and prices fell, the China Iron and Steel
Association said July 31.  Plant Shutdown  Hitachi Construction Machinery Co., the world’s third-
biggest maker of building equipment, is shutting its Chinese
plant for two weeks a month until October due to a sales slump,
President Yuichi Tsujimoto said in an Aug. 29 interview.  Inventories of rubber at Qingdao port, the country’s main
hub for the car-tire material, were forecast to match a January
record last month on a weaker auto market, Li Xiangou, chairman
of the city’s rubber exchange, said in an Aug. 17 interview.  Retailers are also suffering. Parkson Retail Group Ltd.,
which operates more than 50 department stores in China, said
first-half same-store sales rose at less than a quarter the pace
of a year earlier and sportswear seller  Li Ning Co. (2331)  shut 1,200
shops in the six months ending June 30.  China’s government has refrained from a stimulus on the
scale of the 4 trillion  yuan  package unveiled during the global
financial crisis that helped keep growth above 9 percent in 2008
and 2009 while the rest of the world slumped.  Wen said in October the government would “fine tune”
economic policies. Since then, banks’ reserve requirement ratios
have been cut three times, approvals for investment projects
have been accelerated and social security and health spending
have risen. The central bank lowered  interest rates  in June for
the first time in three years and cut them again in July.  Stimulus Reticence  “The lack of really decisive bold action over the last few
months signifies at least in some part the government is content
with a growth figure closer to the actual target than perhaps
they would have previously liked,” said Alistair Thornton, an
IHS Global Insight economist in Beijing. “They’ve got
sufficient clout to turn things around if they really want to
and they’ll only really want to when the labor market feels the
impact.”  A growth rate of 7.5 percent to 8 percent would still
compare well with the world’s biggest economies. The
International Monetary Fund’s latest forecasts, published in
July, put U.S. expansion this year at 2 percent and Japan’s at
2.4 percent with the euro area contracting 0.3 percent.  Korean Experience  Even so, China is at risk of repeating the experience of
South Korea in the 1990s, where a slower pace of growth resulted
in a “significant deterioration” in profits as companies were
burdened with higher fixed costs from capital spending booms
aimed at supporting the economy, according to Duncan Wooldridge,
chief Asia economist at UBS AG in Hong Kong.  “China’s reluctance so far this year to replicate the
investment surge in 2009 is a good thing even if it delays a
cyclical improvement by a few quarters,” Wooldridge wrote in
the Aug. 30 note.  With less than seven months left in office, Wen may need to
leave the task of reviving growth to new crop of government
officials due to take over in March 2013 after the annual
session of the National People’s Congress.  “There have been rising concerns within policy circles in
Beijing that the government’s growth target of 7.5 percent for
the year may be at risk,” said Ramin Toloui, Singapore-based
global co-head of emerging-markets portfolio management at
Pacific Investment Management Co., which manages the world’s
largest bond fund.  “More policy easing helps shield against a major
contraction, but is unlikely to catalyze a strong recovery
because the economy and financial sector is still digesting the
large investments made in recent years,” said Toloui, who
visits Beijing several times a year.  --Nerys Avery,  Kevin Hamlin . Editors: Scott Lanman, Stephanie Phang  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  