-- Jenson Button Wins Belgium Grand Prix, Alonso, Hamilton Crash
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-09-02T22:01:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/mclaren-s-button-wins-belgium-grand-prix-vettel-is-second.html
McLaren’s Jenson Button led from
start to finish at yesterday’s Belgian Grand Prix for his first
victory since the opening race of the season.  The Briton’s chances of winning the drivers’ title remain
slim, although he cut his deficit to championship leader
 Fernando Alonso  to 63 points with eight races to go. Ferrari’s
Alonso was among four drivers forced to retire following a crash
at the first corner.  “This circuit is so special to most drivers,” Button said
on the podium after the race. “To get a victory here from
lights to flag is very special, especially as it has not been an
easy year for me.”  Button, 32, had never won at Spa-Francorchamps. Red Bull’s
Sebastian Vettel was second and  Kimi Raikkonen  of Lotus, a four-
time winner at the circuit, completed the podium positions.  Alonso remains on 164 points, Vettel has 140,  Mark Webber 
of Red Bull 132, with Raikkonen on 131. Then follows McLaren’s
 Lewis Hamilton  on 117 and Button on 101.  Alonso’s record of finishing in the points at every race
this season was ended on the first lap, with Lotus’s  Romain Grosjean , Hamilton and Sauber’s Sergio Perez also forced out in
the incident.  Grosjean cut across to try to block Hamilton, with his
rear-right tire hitting the front-left of the McLaren, which
went into a spin and hit the Lotus. A stewards’ inquiry found
Grosjean responsible for the accident, and he will be banned
from next week’s race in  Italy . He was also fined 50,000 euros
($63,000).  No Injuries  “I honestly thought I was ahead of him and there was
enough room for both cars,” Grosjean said on the Formula One
website. “I didn’t deliberately try to squeeze him or anything
like that. This first corner situation obviously isn’t what
anyone would want to happen and thankfully no one was hurt.”  Alonso and Perez were taken out, while Pastor Maldonado of
Williams and Sauber’s Kamui Kobayashi sustained damage but were
able to continue at the back of the field. Maldonado’s race was
ended when he crashed on lap five, soon after the safety car had
returned to the pits.  Maldonado will drop ten places on the starting grid at
Monza in Italy next week after being cited for two violations by
the stewards. He was punished for jumping the start as well as
the collision with Timo Glock on lap 5 that caused him to quit.
Glock was able to finish.  Schumacher’s Race  Button settled into a lead as several drivers battled for
positions behind the Briton. Mercedes driver  Michael Schumacher ,
competing in his 300th Grand Prix, climbed to second after
several drivers pitted as he looked for a record-extending
seventh win in  Belgium .  Schumacher almost hit Vettel as he dived into the pit lane
on lap 20, forcing his countryman to take evasive action.
Button, on a one-stop strategy, had a 2.6-second stop to further
enforce his position.  Vettel was the fastest driver on the circuit and
established himself in second spot with 16 laps to go as
Schumacher, Raikkonen,  Nico Hulkenberg  of Force  India  and Webber
scrapped for the next four spots.  “It was a crazy race,” Vettel said. “Fortunately we came
back with a fantastic strategy.”  Raikkonen finally broke free with 10 laps to go, while
Ferrari’s  Felipe Massa  joined the group and eventually finished
fifth, behind Hulkenberg. Webber was sixth, ahead of Schumacher,
with Toro Rosso’s Jean-Eric Vergne and Daniel Ricciardo and Paul
di Resta of Force India also in the points.  Schumacher’s Plans  Schumacher’s plan for only one stop was changed because of
wear to his tires, while he ended the race without sixth gear.
The 43-year-old told the British Broadcasting Corp. he was yet
to decide whether to continue beyond this season.  Button becomes the fourth multiple winner this season,
joining Hamilton and Webber on two victories. Alonso is the only
driver with three wins, while there have been three other
winners in the 12 races so far.  The 20-race series continues next weekend with the Italian
Grand Prix in Monza.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 