-- Coco Chanel, Chagall Reign at Paris Opera Costume Show
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2012-09-02T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/coco-chanel-chagall-reign-at-paris-opera-costume-show.html
Painters and fashion designers make
unlikely bedfellows. That hasn’t stopped the Paris Opera from
presenting them side by side.  “L’Etoffe de la Modernite,” or the Fabric of Modernism,
tells the story of how the style of opera costumes changed at
the beginning of the 20th century.  In the 19th century, big stars traveled with their own
wardrobes. Adelina Patti, the reigning diva in the century’s
final decades, appeared with diamonds sewn into La Traviata’s
bodice and hired detectives to mingle with the chorus to keep an
eye on them.  For the costumes of lesser mortals the aim was historical
accuracy. The most influential model, imitated all over  Europe ,
was the German court theater in Meiningen where uniforms were
authentic down to the last button.  Sergei Diaghilev’s Ballets Russes changed all that. When
they first appeared in Paris, in 1909, they startled the
audience not only with their brilliant dancing; the Parisians
were even more impressed by the colorful, non-naturalistic
settings and costumes designed by Leon Bakst and other painters.  The sensational success of the Ballets Russes was not lost
on Jacques Rouche, who directed the Paris Opera from 1914 to
1945.  Fernand Leger  He invited painters such as Maurice Denis, Giorgio De
Chirico, Andre Masson and Fernand Leger to work for ’La Grande
Boutique’ (Verdi’s name for the Paris Opera). Bakst, after his
split with Diaghilev, was appointed artistic consultant of the
Opera.  Rouche’s successors continued his practice: In 1959,  Marc Chagall  designed the costumes and sets for Ravel’s ballet
“Daphnis et Chloe.”  In 1924, Diaghilev had persuaded  Coco Chanel  to design the
costumes for Darius Milhaud’s ballet “Le Train Bleu.” The
Opera was slow in following his example.  The first fashion designer whose name appeared in a program
of the Palais Garnier was  Yves Saint Laurent  in 1965. He paved
the way for Christian Lacroix, Kenzo Takada and others.  The most original among the 80 or so sketches in the show
are not necessarily those by the big names. I was particularly
impressed by Paul Colin’s witty bat for a 1939 production of
Ravel’s “L’Enfant et les Sortileges” and Jacques Dupont’s
designs for a 1968 “Turandot” looking like ink-blots in a
Rorschach test.  Rudolf Nureyev  The sketches are complemented by some 30 costumes including
those for Serge Lifar’s “Giselle” and Rudolf Nureyev’s “Romeo
et Juliette.”  Among the accessories, you can find the wig of the faun in
Debussy’s “L’Apres-midi d’un Faune” whose 1912 premiere with
Nijinsky in the title role had outraged the prigs.  Stage costumes have a magic of their own as the Paris Opera
learned, to its consternation in 1999 when collectors bought
10,000 items at affordable prices.  Such was the crush that the gendarmes had to be called in
to control the crowd that threatened to storm the tent on Place
de la Bastille, just as their predecessors on the royal prison
on July 14, 1789.  “L’Etoffe de la Modernite” is at the museum of the Palais
Garnier through Oct. 14.  Information:  http://www.operadeparis.fr .  (Jorg von Uthmann writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Lewis Lapham  on history.  To contact the writer of this review:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 