-- Commodities Beat Stocks, Bonds for Second Month in August
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a ,   R i t a   N a z a r e t h ,   Y e   X i e   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-09-03T21:14:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/commodities-beating-all-assets-again-for-first-time-in-16-months.html
Commodities beat equities, bonds and
the dollar for a second consecutive month, the longest streak in
more than a year, on mounting speculation policy makers will
seek to rescue their economies.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Total Return Index of 24
commodities rose 6.4 percent in August, led by silver, cocoa and
heating oil. The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities gained
1.9 percent for a third straight advance, as the U.S.  Dollar
Index (DXY) , a measure against six currencies, dropped 1.7 percent.
Bonds of all types returned 0.2 percent on average, led by
Europe’s most indebted nations, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Index.  Gains in riskier assets show investors expect policy makers
will succeed in bolstering growth. The  Federal Reserve  and
 European Central Bank  are already holding borrowing costs at a
record low, and more than two-dozen nations cut market  interest
rates  this year. China has slowed for six quarters, the 17-
nation euro area is contracting, and  consumer confidence  in the
U.S. fell the most in 10 months in August.  “The market has clearly already taken a very sanguine
view,” said  Bill O’Neill , the London-based chief investment
officer for Europe,  Middle East  and Africa at Merrill Lynch
Wealth Management, which oversees more than $1.8 trillion of
assets. “The dollar has been weaker, and that’s one of the
reasons why commodities are propelled higher. Part of it has
been the easing expectations, and the conviction that the Fed
would do something aggressive in early September.”  Bull Market  Raw materials entered a  bull market  last month after rising
more than 20 percent since mid-June, erasing this year’s losses.
They last beat every other asset for two months in March and
April 2011. Commodities rose more than 80 percent from December
2008 to June 2011 as the Fed bought $2.3 trillion of debt in two
rounds of quantitative easing.  Silver futures added 13 percent last month, the most since
January, as holdings through exchange-traded products advanced
for a fourth month, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Investors
buy silver both as a hedge against inflation and as a bet on a
stronger economy because 53 percent is used in industrial
applications from televisions to batteries. The spot price rose
1.2 percent to $32.115 an ounce at 4:37 p.m. New York time.
Earlier, the metal reached $32.3025, the highest since April 13.  Midwest Drought  Heating oil rose 12 percent. July was the hottest month in
the lower 48 states in records going back a century. The worst
U.S. Midwest drought since 1936 is hurting crops in the biggest
agricultural exporter, driving corn and soybean prices to
records. Cotton jumped 8.3 percent, the most since February
2011, and cattle futures advanced 1.3 percent. All 105 counties
in Kansas, the biggest grower of winter wheat, have been
declared federal disaster areas.  Crude traded in New York rose 9.6 percent, the most since
October, on increasing concern about supply after the European
Union began sanctions on Iran’s oil exports. Production in
OPEC’s second-largest member fell 11 percent in August, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Iran, which says its nuclear program
is for civilian purposes and not weapon development, threatened
to retaliate by blocking the  Strait of Hormuz , the transit point
for about 20 percent of the world’s oil. Oil futures for October
delivery gained 0.6 percent $97.05 a barrel today on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange .  Goldman’s Forecasts  Oil will advance 19 percent to $115 in three months,
soybeans 14 percent to $20 a bushel and corn 13 percent to $9 a
bushel, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a report Aug. 13. The
bank predicted a month earlier that the S&P GSCI Enhanced
Commodity Index would gain 27 percent in a year, with the best
returns in energy and industrial and  precious metals .  Gasoline futures added 6.6 percent, reaching a four-month
high Aug. 27. The  cost  of a gallon of regular unleaded gas at
U.S. pumps was $3.827 on Aug. 31, from $3.521 a month earlier,
according to the American Automobile Association.  Hedge funds  are holding close to their biggest  bet  on
rising raw-material prices since May 2011, according to data
from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Open interest, or
outstanding futures contracts, across the 24 members of the S&P
GSCI rose 1.5 percent last month, the most since March, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Central Bankers  While declining supplies of crops and crude helped lift
commodities, prices also rose on optimism demand will strengthen
as policy makers bolster growth. ECB President  Mario Draghi  said
Aug. 2 the central bank may buy bonds of distressed euro-area
nations should they ask for aid from the region’s bailout fund.
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told central bankers and economists
meeting in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, on Aug. 31 that he would not
rule out further bond purchases to boost growth.  Almost $3.6 trillion has been added to the value of global
equities since the beginning of June, as 71 percent of the
members of the  S&P 500  Index reported quarterly earnings that
beat analyst expectations.  Companies that are most-dependent on economic growth led
the gains in the MSCI index. Consumer discretionary, technology,
energy and financial shares added at least 2.5 percent.  Cisco
Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the world’s biggest maker of computer-networking
equipment, soared 20 percent as  profit  and sales topped
estimates. Bankia SA and Mediobanca SpA surged at least 33
percent to pace advances in European lenders.  ‘Positive Surprises’  “You’ve had a risk-on trade,” said Paul Zemsky, the New
York-based head of  asset allocation  for ING Investment
Management, which oversees $170 billion. “There were
expectations the ECB would soon be able to buy bonds and that
the Fed would announce another round of quantitative easing. On
top of that, people recognize that even though earnings weren’t
as robust as they hoped, we’ve had positive  surprises .”  Strategists say the best is over for the S&P 500, which
added 2 percent last month, and are forecasting a 0.8 percent
drop to 1,396 by the end of the year, according to the average
of 14 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The Stoxx Europe 600
Index climbed 1.9 percent last month, and the MSCI Asia-Pacific
Index fell 0.8 percent.  Diminishing demand for the safest assets caused the dollar
to depreciate in August amid mounting optimism the ECB will be
able to contain Europe’s debt crisis. Intercontinental Exchange
Inc.’s  Dollar Index , tracking the greenback against six major
U.S. trading partners, erased the previous month’s 1.2 percent
gain. The gauge will average 83 in the fourth quarter, 2.2
percent higher than now, according to the median of 11 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Average Yields  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Index
extended a 1.4 percent gain in July. The gauge, tracking some
19,600 securities with a market value of about $44 trillion,
rose 4.4 percent this year. Average yields fell to 1.7 percent,
from 2.24 percent at the end of 2011.  The index rose as investors sought the riskiest securities,
with those of Europe’s biggest debtors leading the gains after
Draghi said July 26 he would do whatever it takes to preserve
the euro. Greek bonds were the best performers among the 26
sovereign markets tracked by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies, rising 16 percent.
Portugal was second, with an 11 percent gain. Italy’s returned
4.9 percent and Spain’s 3.9 percent.  Treasuries lost 0.1 percent, their biggest decline since
June, Bank of America index data show. Yields on the 10-year
securities climbed 16 basis points, the second month the
interest rate increased. Yields will average 1.71 percent in the
third quarter, from 1.62 percent now, according to the Bloomberg
weighted average compiled from 80 analyst estimates.  Fifth Advance  Investment-grade corporate debt rose 0.6 percent in August,
for a fifth consecutive monthly gain, while an index of high-
yield bonds advanced 1.6 percent. Speculative-grade debt is
rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and less than BBB-
at  Standard & Poor’s .  The  MSCI Emerging Market Index (MXEF)  of stocks fell 0.5 percent.
The Shanghai Composite Index lost 2.7 percent, reaching the
lowest since February 2009 on Aug. 30. China’s slowing economy
prompted the People’s Bank of China to cut interest rates in
June and July for the first time since 2008. It has lowered
banks’ reserve requirements three times starting in November.  “The market is in a waiting pattern right now,” said
Steffen Reichold, an emerging-market economist at Stone Harbor
Investment Partners in New York. “No one is really trying to
put on big positions.”  Financial System  The benchmark Vietnamese stock index fell 4.5 percent after
Nguyen Duc Kien, a founder of Asia Commercial Bank, the nation’s
fourth-biggest lender by market value, was detained for what the
central bank called conducting “business illegally.” That
raised concern among investors about the stability of the
nation’s financial system.  Dollar-denominated emerging-market  government bonds  tracked
by JPMorgan Chase & Co. returned 1.2 percent for the month as
investors sought alternatives to record-low yields in the U.S.
and Germany. Emerging-market  local currency bonds  dropped 0.1
percent in dollar terms, according to JPMorgan’s GBI-EM Global
Diversified Index.  Belize’s $544 million bonds due in 2029 lost 26 percent in
August, the biggest loser among emerging-market government debt,
as the Central American country defaulted by missing a coupon
payment Aug. 20.  Colombia’s peso declined 1.7 percent, the most among
emerging market currencies, as the government bought dollars to
weaken the foreign-exchange rate in a bid to spur exports.
Central banks from China to Uruguay are also taking measures to
weaken their currencies to make their exports cheaper and
stimulate their economies.  “The real world is just chopping along and getting by, and
that’s about all you can hope for,” said  Doug King , the London-
based co-founder of the Merchant Commodity Fund, which oversees
about $450 million of assets. “A lot of people have a watching
brief until we get more facts on the macro picture. There is a
risk the market gets disappointed in macro news and there’s a
rush to the exit.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in New York at   yxie6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at   swallace6@bloomberg.net . 