-- Danish Housing Slump in End Phase as Excesses Die Out
-- B y   T a s n e e m   B r o g g e r
-- 2012-09-03T08:17:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/danish-housing-slump-in-end-phase-as-excesses-die-out.html
Denmark’s housing slump is nearing
its end as the excesses of the nation’s property boom fade and
the gap between what people earn and the price of a home
narrows, Standard & Poor’s analyst Per Tornqvist said.  “We think the bulk of the adjustment process, of needing
to sort out what had obviously been excesses, that this will
potentially be completed by the end of this year,” Tornqvist,
who is based in  Stockholm , said in an Aug. 31 phone interview.
“So we are close to the end of the adjustment process.”  Home prices  have plunged about 25 percent since a 2007 peak
and declines this year will average 3.5 percent, the government
estimates. The housing crisis, combined with rising job losses,
has suffocated demand and pushed the economy to the brink of its
second  recession  in less than a year. Any recovery in Denmark’s
housing market is likely to be gradual, S&P estimates.  “There are some signs of improvement, though we do not
expect a rapid turnaround,” Tornqvist said. “The problem with
a high private debt burden is that it is a very long-term trend
to change the leverage in society. You’re almost looking at a
multi-decade process, certainly a process that can last a
decade.”  Gross domestic product sank 0.5 percent in the second
quarter from the three months through March and contracted an
annual 0.9 percent. The slump was led by a quarterly 4.2 percent
decline in business investments and a 0.9 percent drop in
 consumer spending , the statistics office in Copenhagen said on
Aug. 29.  Debt Risks  Danes bear the highest household debt burdens in the world,
relative to income. Indebtedness reached 322 percent of
disposable incomes in 2010, S&P estimates.  “It’s come down very slightly since then but it’s
obviously not a ratio that changes very fast,” Tornqvist said.  AAA rated Denmark has relied on its haven status, supported
by a government debt level that’s less than half the euro-zone
average and a current account surplus, to keep its borrowing
costs low. The country pays less than  Germany  to borrow for 10
years and has charged investors to hold its two-year debt
through most of July and August.  The stable outlook on  Denmark ’s top credit rating is
unaffected by last week’s budget proposal, S&P said Aug. 31. The
rating company sees this year’s 4.6 percent deficit of gross
domestic product narrowing to 3 percent in 2013. That compares
with the government’s forecast for a 4 percent shortfall this
year, and a 1.9 percent deficit in 2013.  The yield on Denmark’s 3 percent note due November 2021
rose one basis point to 1.104 percent as of 9:11 a.m. local
time, 24 basis points less than yields on similar-maturity
German bunds. Denmark’s two-year yield was little changed at
minus 0.142 percent, or 10 basis points less than bunds.  ‘Painful Shock’  A capital influx into Denmark has also forced the central
bank, which pegs the krone to the euro, to cut its benchmark
rates to record lows and bring its deposit rate to an
unprecedented minus 0.2 percent. Even rates on short-term Danish
mortgage bonds may sink below zero, according to Rune Brinch Kristensen, chief analyst at Nykredit A/S, the country’s largest
mortgage lender and  Europe ’s biggest issuer of covered bonds
backed by home loans.  While S&P’s main scenario is that monetary policy will
“continue as it is in the medium term,” Danes are at risk of
depending too much on record-low borrowing costs to sustain
their debt loads, Tornqvist said.  “It’s a key weakness in Denmark that the economy is
reliant on low  interest rates ,” he said. “Should interest
rates rise sharply, that is potentially the most painful
economic shock to Denmark.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  