-- Democrats Try to Shape Race as Contrast Rather Than Referendum
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-09-02T16:33:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/democrats-try-to-shape-race-as-contrast-rather-than-referendum.html
Democrats gathering for their
national convention framed this year’s election as two competing
economic plans rather than a referendum on President  Barack Obama .  With  unemployment  at 8.3 percent and job growth anemic, the
Democrats said that Obama’s policies were helping the U.S. climb
out of the recession he inherited and accused Republican
presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  of seeking to return to the
same policies that led to the economic meltdown.  “We’re going to explain to the American people and the
middle class of this country, how we’re going to continue to
recover, but do more than just recover from the recession, to
build an economy from the middle out,” said  David Plouffe , a
White House senior adviser, on ABC’s “This Week” today. “What
Mitt Romney is going to offer America is top-down, trickle-down
fairy dust. It didn’t work then, it’s not going to work now.”  Obama, who Democrats will re-nominate in Charlotte,
 North Carolina , is seeking to shore up his support as voters are
divided over his handling of the economy. A Washington Post/ABC
News  survey  released Aug. 28 showed 44 percent trust Obama more
on the economy, compared with 46 percent who trust Romney more.
Among registered voters, the race was virtually deadlocked, with
47 percent favoring Romney and 46 percent backing the president.  Jobs Focus  Romney adviser  Eric Fehrnstrom , speaking on CNN’s “ State
of the Union ,” said the campaign’s main issue remained  job
creation .  “The president needs to explain why he didn’t do what he
said he was going to do,” Fehrnstrom said. “The economy has
not turned around. In fact, I think the biggest news next week
will not be the three nights of the Democratic convention, but
it will be on Friday when we hear again about the monthly jobs
report for the month of August.”  Obama’s allies have touted 29 straight months of private-
sector job growth, while saying it has taken longer to climb out
of the economic downturn the president inherited from his
predecessor, Republican  George W. Bush . The Commerce Department
last revised its estimate of second-quarter growth to 1.7
percent from 1.5 percent. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Stock Index (SPX) 
has risen 65 percent since Obama took office in January, 2009.  “What you’re going to hear this week in Charlotte is a
president who is going to present a clear agenda” for a second
term “that talks about how we build a sound economy and lift
the middle class in this country,” said Obama’s chief
strategist,  David Axelrod , on “Fox News Sunday.”  ‘Derivative’ Ideas  Republicans “simply don’t want to talk about their ideas,
because their ideas are not ideas about the future,” Axelrod
said. “They are derivative of what we did in the last decade
that brought our economy to its knees.”  Still, Obama is presiding over a jobless rate above 8
percent for the longest stretch since World War II. And working-
class individuals -- those nonprofessional occupations lacking
college degrees -- saw their median earnings fall 4.6 percent
between 2007 and 2010, according to a study of U.S. Census data
prepared for  Bloomberg News  by Sentier Research of Annapolis,
Maryland.  “We all have responsibility for the way things are,”
Maryland Governor  Martin O’Malley  said on CNN’s “State of the
Union. “But the question is do we want the go back to the
failed policies that led to the Bush job losses, the Bush
recession, the Bush deficits, or do we want to dig deep as our
parents and grandparents did, invest in education, innovation
and also rebuilding America so that we can create a stronger and
growing middle class.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Charlotte, North Carolina, at
   jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 