-- Federer Reaches U.S. Open Quarterfinals as Mardy Fish Withdraws
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-09-03T17:17:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/djokovic-reaches-u-s-open-tennis-4th-round-roddick-set-to-play.html
Top-seeded  Roger Federer  reached the
quarterfinals of the U.S. Open today without taking the court
when American  Mardy Fish  withdrew for unspecified health
reasons.  Federer, 31, a five-time U.S. Open champion from
Switzerland, now has reached at least the quarterfinals in 34
straight Grand Slam tennis tournaments.  Fish, seeded 23rd and one of only two American men left in
the tournament, had reached the fourth round with a five-set win
against France’s Gilles Simon that lasted until 1:10 yesterday
morning. Organizers announced Fish’s withdrawal in an e-mailed
statement.  Federer will meet 26-year-old Tomas Berdych, the sixth seed
from the  Czech Republic , who won 7-6 (7-4), 6-4, 6-1 today
against No. 11 Nicolas Almagro of Spain. Berdych had 17 aces as
he reached the quarterfinals of the  U.S. Open  for the first time
in 10 tries.  Ana Ivanovic advanced to the quarterfinals for the first
time in her career with a 6-0, 6-4 win today against Tsvetana
Pironkova of Bulgaria.  Ivanovic, 24, the women’s 12th seed from Serbia, won the
French Open in 2008 and has reached at least the semifinals at
Wimbledon and the Australian Open. Until today, she had never
made it past the fourth round at the U.S. Open.  Ivanovic’s victory ended about 10 hours after American John Isner lost a match that tied the latest finish in tournament
history.  Knocked Out  Isner, who at No. 9 was the top American in the men’s draw,
was knocked out with a five-set loss to 19th-seeded Philipp Kohlschreiber of Germany that ended at 2:26 a.m. today. It
matched the record for the latest finish in U.S. Open history, a
1993 second-round meeting between Swedes  Mats Wilander  and
Mikael Pernfors.  “It was really late, so everyone who was here is really a
crazy tennis fan,” Kohlschreiber said in a televised interview
after his 6-4, 3-6, 4-6, 6-3, 6-4 win. “It was great for me and
I thought we played some really good tennis.”  Isner’s loss and Fish’s withdrawal left  Andy Roddick  as the
only American left in the men’s singles draw at the National
Tennis Center in New York. Roddick, 30, has said he will retire
at the end of the tournament.  Serena Williams , a three-time women’s singles champion at
the U.S. Open, is scheduled to play twice today in Arthur Ashe
Stadium. The women’s fourth seed will meet Andrea Hlavackova of
the Czech Republic for a spot in the quarterfinals in the
afternoon and then return for a doubles match with older sister
 Venus Williams  during the night session.  Also in the women’s draw today, No. 2 Agnieszka Radwanska
of Poland meets No. 20 Roberta Vinci of Italy. Third-seeded  Andy Murray  of Britain meets No. 15 Milos Raonic of Canada tonight
for a spot in the men’s quarterfinals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  