-- Dollar Falls 3rd Day Versus Yen on Fed Stimulus Prospects
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-09-03T01:17:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/dollar-holds-drop-versus-yen-on-fed-stimulus-prospects.html
The dollar slid for a third day
against the yen before U.S. data this week forecast to show
manufacturing activity and hiring remained weak, adding to the
case for further monetary easing by the  Federal Reserve .  The  Dollar Index  traded near a three-month low after Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said at an annual forum in  Jackson
Hole , Wyoming that joblessness was a “grave concern” and that
further bond purchases under quantitative easing shouldn’t be
ruled out. Labor Department data on Sept. 7 may show the U.S.
added fewer jobs in August. Australia’s dollar slid while the
yen climbed amid signs of slowing growth in  China .  “Weak U.S. data will now be seen as raising the chance of
QE, which is  U.S. dollar  negative,” said  Mike Jones , a currency
strategist at Bank of  New Zealand  in Wellington, referring to
asset purchases known as quantitative easing. “Non-farm
payrolls is certainly the most important event for this week.”  The dollar slid 0.2 percent to 78.23 yen as of 10:12 a.m.
in  Tokyo  from the close on Aug. 31, when it touched 78.19, the
lowest since Aug. 13. The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which Intercontinental
Exchange Inc. uses to track the greenback against the currencies
of six major U.S. trade partners, was at 81.264 from the 81.208
close last week, when it reached 80.964, the lowest level since
May 22. U.S. markets are closed today for a holiday.  The Australian dollar dropped 0.5 percent to $1.0266 and
lost 0.7 percent to 80.33 yen. Japan’s currency gained against
all its 16 major peers, rising 0.2 percent to 98.34 per euro.  U.S. Economy  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  manufacturing index 
was probably at 50 in August, the dividing line between
expansion and contraction in August, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  before the
Tempe, Arizona-based group releases its figures tomorrow. It was
at 49.8 in July.  Economists in a separate Bloomberg poll forecast U.S.
employers added 125,000 jobs last month, fewer than the 163,000-
position increase in July, before the Labor Department reports
the data this week. The jobless rate will remain at 8.3 percent,
they projected. U.S.  unemployment  has stayed at or above 8
percent since February 2009. It was 4.4 percent in October 2006.  Bernanke told central bankers and economists at the Kansas
City Fed’s annual economics symposium on Aug. 31 that
“nontraditional policies” shouldn’t be ruled out if economic
conditions warrant them. He emphasized that a third round of
bond purchases is an option, and repeated the  Federal Open
Market Committee ’s last statement that the central bank “will
provide additional policy accommodation as needed” to spur
growth.  Jobs Numbers  The Fed chief’s speech came two weeks before the next
meeting of the policy-setting FOMC. Many policy makers at the
previous gathering said additional stimulus probably will be
needed soon unless the economy showed a “substantial and
sustainable strengthening,” according to minutes of their July
31-Aug. 1 meeting.  “If the jobs numbers come in weak, that would
significantly heighten expectations of QE3,” said Kengo Suzuki,
a currency strategist in Tokyo at Mizuho Securities Co., a unit
of Japan’s third-largest bank by market value. “The dollar may
test lower over the near term.”  The greenback fell 0.8 percent in the past month, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies. The yen declined 0.5 percent in the
same period, while the Australian dollar dropped 3.9 percent.  Retail Sales  The so-called Aussie touched a five-week low of $1.0256
before data on Australian retail sales and amid concern growth
is slowing in China, the nation’s biggest trading partner.  Sales probably grew 0.2 percent in July from the previous
month, when they rose 1 percent, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg before the Bureau
of Statistics releases data today.  A  Purchasing Managers ’ Index of Chinese manufacturing fell
to 49.2 in August from 50.1 the previous month, the National
Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing said on Sept. 1. HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics will release a separate  PMI index  of Chinese
manufacturing today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  