-- Draghi May See Silver Lining in Disappointing Investors
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-09-03T09:32:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/draghi-may-see-silver-lining-in-disappointing-investors.html
Mario Draghi  might not be too
worried about disappointing investors this week.  As markets look for the European Central Bank president to
unveil details of his bond-purchase program on Sept. 6, Italy
and  Spain  are showing little willingness to request aid from
 Europe ’s bailout fund -- a pre-condition for the ECB to start
buying their debt. A jump in bond yields may remind governments
that they need to act first.  “The market is expecting a lot from the ECB,” Gustavo Reis, an economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, wrote in a
note to clients. “However, we look for little clarification on
the bond-buying program. The likely market disappointment should
intensify the pressure on Spain.”  Draghi’s plan hinges on governments asking the bailout fund
to buy their bonds on the primary market, which would require
them to sign up to strict conditions, before the ECB intervenes
on the secondary market. While Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  and Italian Premier  Mario Monti  are heaping pressure on
the ECB to act to lower their borrowing costs, they’re resisting
making an application to the bailout fund for aid.  “Draghi’s announcement of intervention shows the robust
will of the ECB to solve the problem,” Rajoy told  Spain’s ABC ,
 Germany ’s  Bild am Sonntag , France’s  Le Journal du Dimanche  and
Italy’s  Corriere della Sera  in a joint interview published over
the weekend. “I will await the results of the ECB and then make
a decision that’s good for Spain and for the euro.”  Jackson Hole  The euro, which is down 12 percent against the dollar in
the past year, fell 0.1 percent to $1.2566 at 11:22 a.m. in
 Frankfurt .  Monti said in an interview with  Il Sole 24 Ore  published
Aug. 29 that the Italian government’s austerity measures are
starting to offset market concerns and the country doesn’t need
to tap European rescue funds at the moment.  Europe’s woes were center stage at the weekend meeting of
central bankers and economists in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , with
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  among those identifying
them as a threat to economic growth and urging they be fixed.  “Some recent policy proposals in Europe have been quite
constructive in my view, and I urge our European colleagues to
press ahead with policy initiatives to resolve the crisis,”
Bernanke said.  Schaeuble’s Warning  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  warned today
against expecting too much of the ECB, saying whatever Draghi
announces must fall within the central bank’s mandate. “We have
to be very careful that we don’t raise false expectations,”
Schaeuble told Deutschlandfunk radio.  In addition to governments dragging their heels, tensions
between the ECB and Germany’s Bundesbank are growing. Bundesbank
President Jens Weidmann, who opposes ECB purchases of  government
bonds , has considered quitting over Draghi’s plan, Bild
newspaper reported Aug. 31.  Weidmann, who traveled to Jackson Hole while Draghi
remained in Frankfurt to assemble the bond plan, said he “won’t
comment on speculations” when asked about the report.  Italian and Spanish bond yields have receded since Draghi
promised on July 26 to do whatever is needed to preserve the
euro. While Spain’s two-year rate has dropped to 3.58 percent
from 6.65 percent on July 24, it compares with minus 0.04
percent in Germany. Spain’s 10-year rate was at 6.82 percent
today compared with Germany’s 1.33 percent.  ‘Unbearably High’  “A currency union can’t function if some countries are
financing themselves at negative  interest rates , while others
have to face unbearably high yields,” Rajoy said in the
interview. “Draghi has made clear that, more than anything
else, doubt over the irreversibility of the euro is responsible
for this dangerous yield divergence.”  Draghi said on Aug. 2 that the ECB is working on a bond-
purchase program to lower yields that policy makers will decide
on at this month’s meeting.  No single option has emerged as preeminent and ECB council
members will have only about 24 hours to digest Draghi’s
proposal before they start debating it, three central bank
officials said on Aug. 31.  The ECB’s Executive Board will send a list of options to
the 17 governors tomorrow, a day before the Governing Council
convenes in Frankfurt, the officials said on condition of
anonymity. The meeting ends on Sept. 6, after which Draghi holds
his regular press conference. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
travels to  Madrid  for talks with Rajoy the same day.  ‘Big Bazooka’  “The ECB should act and the sooner it does the better,”
 Angel Gurria , head of the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development, said yesterday in Bled, Slovenia. “The ECB
needs to tell markets it is ready to act. The whole European
system is at stake. The ECB is the big bazooka.”  Options under consideration by the ECB include sovereign
bond yield caps and targets on spreads over German bunds, the
three central bank officials said. One said there has also been
discussion about making purchases in a range of asset classes
and not just government bonds. An ECB spokesman declined to
comment.  The lack of a clear preference, the complexity of the issue
and the shortage of time increase the risk that Draghi won’t
present a detailed plan this week, according to economists at
Commerzbank AG and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  German Court  The ECB may also choose to hold back some details of the
plan until the German Constitutional Court rules on the legality
of Europe’s permanent bailout fund on Sept. 12, two of the
officials said.  “Draghi will be vague, and he should be,” said  Erik Nielsen , global chief economist at UniCredit Bank AG in  London .
“He’ll reiterate the conditionality aspect, that whatever
they’ll do will be ‘enough’,” and that “the objective of such
interventions, if they happen, will be to prevent speculation of
a euro-zone break-up.”  The ECB will publish new economic forecasts on Sept. 6 that
council member Ewald Nowotny has said are likely to revise down
the outlook for growth.  Economists are divided on whether the ECB will cut interest
rates further. While the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
 survey  of 57 economists is for a 25 basis-point reduction in the
 benchmark rate  to a new record low of 0.5 percent, 25 predict no
change.  The ECB shouldn’t rush fresh anti-crisis measures until
governments demonstrate they’re willing to act as well to quell
the turmoil, former ECB council member Athanasios Orphanides
said in Jackson Hole.  “What is crucial to see is how the governments are
progressing on what they need to do,” Orphanides said in a
Bloomberg Television interview on Sept. 1. “It would not be a
good idea for the ECB to rush into things without everything
falling into place.”  Draghi has an “opportunity” to hold back details of the
ECB’s bond program, said Ed Lalanne, a strategist at Macro Risk
Advisors in  New York . “I don’t think there’s going to be a full
plan.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in Jackson Hole, Wyoming at 
 Skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  