-- Egyptian Foreign Reserves Rose to $15.1 Billion in August
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   N a d i n e   M a r r o u s h i
-- 2012-09-02T13:49:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/egyptian-foreign-reserves-rose-to-15-1-billion-in-august-1-.html
Egypt’s international reserves rose
to $15.1 billion in August after their biggest gain since the
uprising that ousted President  Hosni Mubarak  last year.  Gross reserves climbed by $705 million from $14.4 billion
the previous month, according to data posted on the central
bank’s website today. The figure was shy of projections outlined
by the country’s legal affairs minister, Mohamed Mahsoub, who
had said last week reserves were likely to climb by about $1
billion. Mahsoub said the gains would be partly fuelled by a
$500 million deposit in the central bank by Qatar.  “On the surface, it may appear to be positive news, but it
doesn’t signal any fundamental turnaround in the economy,”  Wael Ziada , head of research at Cairo-based EFG-Holding SAE, said by
phone. The increase “isn’t based on sustainable capital inflows
or a decline in the current account deficit.”  The gains are critical for  Egypt , which has seen
international reserves plunge by roughly 60 percent since the
start of the uprising that pushed Mubarak from power.  The Egyptian pound, subject to a managed float, has
weakened 4.7 percent since the uprising to 6.1028 a dollar on
Aug. 31, the lowest level since December 2004. Egyptian
officials, including President Mohamed Mursi, have said they are
not considering devaluing the currency.  The increase in reserves “gives the central bank more room
to defend the currency,” Ziada said.  An International Monetary Fund team is expected to arrive
in Cairo this month to discuss the country’s request for a $4.8
billion loan, funding seen as key in helping secure backing from
other lenders and donors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Inal Ersan at 
 iersan@bloomberg.net  