-- Meles Mourned in Ethiopia as Ruling Party Names Successor
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-09-02T12:27:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/meles-mourned-in-ethiopia-as-ruling-party-names-successor.html
Thousands of Ethiopians gathered in
the capital,  Addis Ababa , for the funeral of Prime Minister
Meles Zenawi today as the ruling party plans to meet to endorse
Hailemariam Desalegn as his successor.  A public ceremony was held in Meskal Square attended by
several African leaders, including South Africa’s  Jacob Zuma  and
Nigeria’s Goodluck Jonathan, followed by a private burial at
Holy Trinity Cathedral.  “He was a man of such high caliber, rare talent and
selflessness that we all fear the magnitude of the gap he has
left,” Rwandan President  Paul Kagame  said at the ceremony.  The  Ethiopian People’s Revolutionary Democratic Front ’s
council is set to meet after the funeral and will probably
“legally endorse” Hailemariam as party chairman, Seikoture
Getachew, the foreign relations head of the party’s secretariat,
said in an interview on Aug. 26. Hailemariam was appointed
acting prime minister after Meles’s death.  Meles died on Aug. 20 from an infection after not being
seen in public for weeks due to ill health. He ruled Ethiopia
for 21 years, helping to attract investment and foreign aid and
overseeing one of the fastest-growing economies in  Africa . He
was criticized by human rights groups for cracking down on civil
liberties and introducing anti-terrorism laws in 2009 that have
been used to jail opposition politicians and reporters.  U.S. Ally  “I would reassure you that the EPRDF and our developmental
and democratic state will immediately act to implement all the
policies and strategies” of Meles, Hailemariam told mourners at
the public ceremony today. “Our beloved Prime Minister Meles
Zenawi may have departed from us in flesh, but his spirit will
always live with us in all our struggles.”  Meles, a key U.S ally in the region in the fight against
terrorist groups such as al-Qaeda, favored a state-led economic
development model that channeled loans, aid, investment and
domestic revenue into infrastructure, industry and public
services. The result was growth that averaged 11 percent in the
past seven years.  “We renew our commitment to our valued partnership with
the people and government of Ethiopia,”  Susan Rice , the U.S.
ambassador to the  United Nations , said at the public ceremony
today.  Parliament, which has only one opposition representative
out of 547 lawmakers, is on “stand-by” to swear in Meles’s
successor after the nation finishes mourning, Communication
Minister Bereket Simon said on Aug. 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  