-- Lenovo Looks at Purchases Amid Mobile-Device Expansion
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-03T08:21:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/lenovo-looks-at-purchases-amid-mobile-device-expansion.html
Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  said it will
consider acquisitions to drive growth and build competence as
the world’s second-largest personal computer maker expands in
new areas such as mobile devices.  “We would fully leverage this tool if the target is
consistent with our strategy,” Chief Executive Officer  Yang Yuanqing  said in a telephone interview from Beijing. “Any area
which is consistent with our strategy where we are weak, we
would like to consider acquisitions.”  As Lenovo gets closer to its goal of passing market leader
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  in global computer shipments, Yang is
looking at ways to sustain the fastest annual pace in sales
growth in six years. The company, which overtook  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in
the three months through June for second place in smartphone
sales in China, will introduce 40 models of phones in the year
started April 1, Yang said.  “The mobile business, tablets and smartphones, is crucial
for its long-term outlook, given the slowdown of global PC
demand,” said Vincent Chen, an analyst at Yuanta Securities Co.
in Taipei.  Shares of Lenovo jumped 3.8 percent in Hong Kong trading to
close at HK$6.54, their biggest gain since Aug. 17. The  shares 
have gained 26 percent this year, compared with a 6.1 percent
advance in the  Hang Seng Index .  Widen Offerings  Lenovo, which bought the PC division of  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  in 2005, boosted sales last year by
buying control of  Medion AG (MDN) , an Essen, Germany-based computer
maker, and the PC unit of Tokyo-based  NEC Corp. (6701)  Sales rose 37
percent to $29.6 billion in the year ended March 31, the fastest
rate since the 12 months through March 2006.  Now, Yang is stepping up development of smartphones,
tablets and Internet-ready televisions to widen the company’s
offerings, following Apple and Samsung Electronics Co. Yang
declined to comment on specific potential acquisitions in the
Aug. 31 interview.  The  company , whose headquarters are in Beijing and
Morrisville, North Carolina, will introduce a wider array of
phone models this fiscal year, making its strategy very
different from a company like Apple that relies on the iPhone,
Yang said.  Overtaking Apple  “Some companies use just one model to cover all the price
bands and customer segments,” Yang said. “We will have
multiple models to cover different price bands. We will have a
much broader, wider product portfolio. Our development cycle
will be much faster than our competitors.”  Lenovo, which started smartphone sales 2 1/2 years ago in
 China , will start selling the devices in India, the  Philippines 
and Indonesia in “a couple of months,” Yang said. The phone
business, which currently loses money, will become profitable in
“a couple of quarters,” Yang said.  Lenovo overtook Apple during the second quarter for second
place in smartphone sales in China, the world’s largest handset
market. Lenovo jumped from seventh place in the first quarter to
claim 11 percent of China’s smartphone sales in the three months
ended June 30, market researcher IDC said Aug. 24. Apple’s share
fell to 10 percent from 19 percent. Both trailed leader Samsung
Electronics Co.’s 19 percent share, IDC said.  Acquisition is a “key strategy,” Geng Yang, a BOCI
Research Ltd. analyst, wrote in a note dated today. The target
may be in  Europe ,  North America  or a Japanese brand that enjoys
“good market share” overseas, Geng wrote.  Market Share  Lenovo’s first-quarter  profit  rose 30 percent to $141.4
million, beating analysts’ estimates, as it expanded market
share globally.  Lenovo increased shipments of computers including Thinkpad
laptops by almost 15 percent in the second quarter, compared
with a 0.1 percent decline in industrywide sales,  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based Gartner Inc. said in July. That increased
Lenovo’s market share by two percentage points to 14.7 percent
in the period, almost matching Hewlett-Packard’s 14.9 percent,
Gartner said.  Sales of PCs are expected to expand 0.9 percent in 2012 to
367 million units. Tablet sales should increase 54 percent to
107 million and smartphones may rise 39 percent to 686 million,
according to a forecast by IDC.  Competition from tablets and smartphones may put that 1
percent PC growth at risk, according to Anand Srinivasan, an
analyst with Bloomberg Industries.  “Lenovo is acknowledging the difficulties ahead in PC
hardware by attempting to rapidly expand its” mobile portfolio,
said Jean-Louis Lafayeedney, an analyst at JI Asia in  Hong Kong .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  