-- Mexico’s Calderon Submits Labor Bill With Annual Message
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 2012-09-02T02:48:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/mexico-s-calderon-submits-labor-bill-with-annual-message-1-.html
Mexican President  Felipe Calderon 
sent Congress a labor bill that would ease the process for
hiring and firing workers and a measure to increase local
government transparency along with his annual message today.  Interior Minister  Alejandro Poire  delivered the document to
lawmakers in Mexico City on behalf of Calderon, who’s due to
leave office when his term expires in three months. Calderon
will speak about the message on Sept. 3, according to a
statement today on the website of Mexico’s presidency.  Calderon submitted the legislation under a law, passed
during his administration, that lets the president propose two
priority bills at the start of each Congressional session and
requires lawmakers to vote on them within 30 days.  During his six-year tenure, Calderon has lobbied Congress
to pass labor changes that would make it easier for companies to
get rid of workers, overhaul the tax system to increase
government revenue and open the oil industry to more private
investment.  Mexico ’s  gross domestic product  has expanded an
average 1.9 percent a year under Calderon, about half the pace
of  Brazil , though Mexico’s growth rate has overtaken that of
 Latin America ’s only larger economy in the past two years.  Union Transparency  The labor bill is “an encapsulation of all the initiatives
that have been made, that includes all the topics that people
have said should be in a labor reform,” Hector Larios, a senator
for Calderon’s  National Action Party , told reporters today. It
includes measures to increase union transparency, which have
been debated in Congress in the past, Larios said, according to
an e-mailed transcript of his comments.  Mexico’s electoral tribunal yesterday named Enrique Pena Nieto of the  Institutional Revolutionary Party  as president
elect, rejecting a challenge by  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador  of
the Democratic Revolution Party, the runner-up in Mexico’s July
1 vote.  Lopez Obrador  had sought to overturn the result on
charges Pena Nieto’s PRI party bought votes and used illegal
campaign funds.  Pena Nieto, who is scheduled to take office on Dec. 1,
returning his party to power after 12 years of rule by
Calderon’s PAN party, also said during the presidential campaign
that he supports overhauling the labor code.  In his message, Calderon praised Mexico’s achievements in
tackling organized crime. During his administration, Mexico has
captured or killed 22 of the nation’s 37 most-wanted criminals,
seized more than 114 tons of cocaine, almost 11,000 tons of
marijuana and more than 154,000 weapons, Calderon said.  Killings related to drug violence in Mexico totaled 1,341
in August, the second-highest monthly rate since Calderon took
office in December 2006 and sent troops to fight crime groups,
newspaper  Milenio  reported today on its website. Last month’s
toll pushed the number of killings during Calderon’s tenure to
55,416, according to the Mexico City-based newspaper.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  