-- Fresenius Said to Decide Against New Rhoen-Klinikum Bid
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e ,   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-09-03T16:12:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/fresenius-said-to-decide-against-new-rhoen-klinikum-bid.html
Fresenius SE decided against
reviving its bid for German competitor  Rhoen-Klinikum AG (RHK) ,
capping more than four months of jockeying over the top spot in
Germany’s hospital market.  Fresenius doesn’t plan to submit a renewed offer for the
time being, the Bad Homburg-based company said in a statement
today. The company now holds 5 percent of Rhoen-Klinikum plus
one share, Fresenius executives said in a conference call today.  Fresenius was concerned that a renewed attempt would be
complicated by rivals such as Asklepios Kliniken GmbH, which had
also purchased stakes in the target, as well as by risks tied to
gaining control of Rhoen’s supervisory board, people familiar
with the situation said yesterday. Buying Rhoen-Klinikum would
have cemented the bigger company’s position in  Germany ’s
private-hospital market as acquisition opportunities dwindle.  “Blocking our attempt seems to be the name of the game,”
Ulf Mark Schneider, Fresenius’s chief executive officer, told
analysts, adding that none of the parties that undermined
Fresenius’s offer proposed a “meaningful and constructive”
alternative. “We considered this unfair not only to us, but
also to Rhoen, the true pioneer of the German hospital market,
which clearly deserved better than this.”  ‘Sheer Desire’  “We decided that our responsibilities and reputations as
good stewards and guardians of your capital were more important
than the sheer desire to ram this through and teach some of our
adversaries a lesson,” Schneider said.  Rhoen-Klinikum slumped 21 percent to 14.985 euros in
 Frankfurt  trading, the biggest drop since at least October 1998.
Fresenius rose 2.4 percent to 86.87 euros.  With other hospital companies as shareholders, “Rhoen-
Klinikum, as a competitor, has been materially weakened,”
Volker Braun, an analyst at Commerzbank in Frankfurt, wrote in a
report today. “Management’s degree of freedom to operate has
been reduced.”  Rhoen-Klinikum regrets Fresenius’s decision, the Bad
Neustadt an der Saale-based company said in a separate statement
today.  “The management board continues to consider it logical
from the strategic point of view to merge two private clinic
operators in Germany,” Rhoen-Klinikum said in the statement.  Offer Failed  Fresenius’s previous 3.1 billion-euro ($3.9 billion) bid
failed to win enough shareholder support after another German
hospital chain, Asklepios Kliniken GmbH, bought 5 percent of
Rhoen-Klinikum’s shares the day the offer ended on June 27.  B. Braun Holding GmbH, a Melsungen, Germany-based supplier
of medical products to hospitals, entered the fray by buying a 5
percent stake in Rhoen-Klinikum last week, complicating
considerations by Fresenius of mounting a second attempt.  A takeover bid from Asklepios is unlikely because Fresenius
would block it and the combination would have too high a ratio
of debt to earnings, said Moritz Dullinger, an analyst at Kepler
Capital Markets in Zurich.  “We believe Asklepios will stick to the minority stake and
ensure Rhoen will stay independent,” he wrote in an e-mail.  About 84 percent of Rhoen-Klinikum’s stock was tendered in
the original offer. The 22.50-euro-a-share bid was contingent on
winning at least 90 percent of the stock at the time.  Fresenius had weighed the possibility of purchasing a
simple majority of Rhoen shares in a revived bid, people
familiar with the situation said last week. Fresenius had
originally aimed to make a decision by the end of August.  “Why did it take us so long?” Schneider said on today’s
conference call. “Let me assure you the answer is not our
summer vacations. We have seen very little of that this year.”  Fresenius needed time to study possible alternative ways to
structure the takeover, he said.  Fresenius’s Helios unit took the lead in the German
hospital-management industry with the takeover of  Damp Group  in
March. Rhoen ranks second by revenue while closely held
Asklepios places third.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  