-- Germany Sheltering Weary and Burdened Rejuvenates Siemens
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2012-09-03T10:09:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/germany-sheltering-weary-and-burdened-rejuvenates-siemens.html
After graduating from the National
Technical University of Athens, Vlasios Ntizos spent months
sending out as many as six resumes a day seeking work.  His luck finally turned when he signed up for a
apprenticeship at  Siemens AG (SIE)  in Berlin and nabbed a slot,
beating more than other 1,000 compatriots to train for three
years as an electrical engineer in the German capital.  “I guess I am one of the chosen few,” Ntizos said during
a break from dismantling electric plugs in the sprawling red-
brick training center at Siemensstadt, the company’s main
manufacturing complex. “For me, this is a great chance.”  Ntizos, 25, is part of a team of 29 European youths who
signed up at  Germany ’s biggest engineering company in search of
a brighter future, the first time Siemens has made a concerted
effort to add foreigners to its crop of apprentices in Germany.
The  European debt crisis  has unleashed a wave of job seekers
flocking to Germany, where a rigid trainee system churns out a
steady stream of skilled professionals.  Germany’s apprenticeship programs and its renown as the
standard bearer of quality manufacturing are helping companies
rejuvenate their aging workforce with foreigners eager to escape
economic malaise at home. Admitting foreigners promises to give
German companies a reputational halo as Europe’s largest economy
seeks to avoid the image of bullying laggards into austerity.  The country’s vocational system combines practical training
with classroom sessions and has companies pitching in, offering
more than half a million high-school graduates annually hands-on
education in hundreds of professions as a well-respected
alternative to a university degree. With the government paying
for the schools, the system has helped keep youth unemployment
at 7.9 percent, the lowest rate in  Europe , according to
International Labor Organization data.  Not Cheap  Siemens spends about 177 million euros ($222 million) each
year on apprentices, with 1,350 trainees and students passing
through its facilities in Berlin. A regular trainee costs
Siemens as much as 100,000 euros for a three-year program, an
advance payment the company provides in a bid to foster a sense
of loyalty that ideally lasts a lifetime.  At Siemens, the training facilities look like a typical
shop floor. Under the watchful eye of skilled staffers, trainees
clad in Siemens overalls and t-shirts learn how to drill or mill
a piece of metal. The air in the underbelly of the building is
thick with the stale, oily scent of metal works; above, endless
miles of corridors connect classrooms where the trainees study
academic subjects such as accounting and electrical engineering.  ‘Big Effort’  Creating a dedicated apprenticeship for foreigners comes
with its own challenges. Most of the chosen few speak little
German. Siemens has recruited half a dozen teachers to shadow
the European team, and the company provides insurance, housing,
regular flights home and perks such as a six-week welcome
program spruced up with field trips around town, rock concerts
and brewery visits.  It’s not something that the small to mid-sized companies
that form the backbone of Germany’s economy could sustain, said
Martin Stoeckmann, who oversees training at Siemens in Berlin.
The cost of the initiative exclusively for foreigners, hatched
at the start of the year, is about 30 percent more than an
average trainee, he said.  “We are making a big effort, but eventually I believe it
will be worth it,” Stoeckmann said. “We’ll have better people
abroad, and we are strengthening our inter-cultural
capabilities. We are opening up.”  ‘Stuck’  Youth unemployment in  Greece  and  Spain  stands at more than
50 percent, according to ILO. A third of the 29 participants in
the program are from those two countries and  Portugal , where
youth unemployment is 37 percent.  “All my friends at home are trying to leave,” 19-year-old
Lisbon resident Tiago Vitoriano said against the screeching and
scratching of power drills and files in the Siemens workshop.
“Portugal is stuck.”  He now is part of a group of 2,350 new apprentices at
Siemens welcomed by board member Brigitte Ederer in Berlin
today, with 375 of them starting in Berlin. The company received
45,000 applications for the current class, Ederer said.  “The only risk is that you will fall in love here and end
up wanting to stay in Germany,” Ederer said to the newcomers
joining Siemens’ ranks. “For Siemens, this is a small
contribution against youth unemployment in Europe,” she said.  Tradition  Germany’s unique educational approach is rooted in a guild
system dating back centuries. Trainees receive a modest salary
during their education and most get a job offer once they
complete their apprenticeships.  “Germany has many skilled workers because we train
systematically,” said Johann Eekhoff, a professor of economy at
the University of Cologne and a former German Deputy Economic
Minister. “There is a tradition, and you can’t transplant
tradition.”  That’s why Siemens has chosen to import high potentials
rather than export its training model, as car companies
including  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  do. It’s not a one-way
ticket though, as the company, keen to avoid any accusation of
being a predator scooping up talent abroad, insists the students
will be sent back home after training.  Import, Export  “Of course it’s only a drop in the ocean, but it’s meant
to be a signal for others, too,” said Stoeckmann, the Siemens
trainer.  Volkswagen has started a two-year trainee program in
Germany for university graduates from Spain and Portugal with an
engineering degree. The company will provide language courses
and mentors, and says it has received more than 1,800
applications for 43 positions.  While the promise of a few years in Berlin and a guaranteed
job may attract thousands of applications from Europe’s stricken
south, Germany’s hinterland hasn’t gotten quite as much
interest.  That’s why the German government sponsors a campaign called
“ make it in Germany ,” advertising the country abroad in a move
to ease what it predicts be a shortfall of as many as 6 million
skilled workers by 2025.  German Screws  Wuerth Group, a family-owned distributer of screws and
fasteners, says it is hunting for software developers in Spain,
Italy and Greece via online ads in those countries. The company
tries to make relocation to its headquarters in Kuenzelsau, a
town of 14,500 in Lower Franconia, easier by offering language
courses and assistance when dealing with local authorities.  The medieval town of Schwaebisch Hall was flooded with
15,000 applications from Portugal after a field trip for
journalists from southern Europe resulted in an article
describing the town as providing free education, affordable
housing, and salaries of as much as 8,000 euros a month for
engineers.  For the time being, pulling through may be the biggest
obstacle for the Siemens trainees in Berlin, who face the
challenge of learning a trade and a new language.  “I understand how these kids feel when they get
homesick,” said Christos Papabitis-Tsianakas, one of their
teachers. He was five years old when his own parents left Greece
in 1964 to seek a better fortune in Berlin, and has remained
loyal to the company and the city that welcomed him.  “I won’t speak a word of Greek with them though,” he
said. “That’s part of the deal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  