-- Glencore Said to Stick to Xstrata Terms Days Before Vote
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-09-03T15:44:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/glencore-said-to-stick-to-xstrata-terms-days-before-vote.html
Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  is
continuing to stick to the terms of a $33 billion bid for
 Xstrata Plc (XTA) , resisting mounting pressure from shareholders to
sweeten the offer four days before investors vote, according to
a person with knowledge of the matter.  Glencore didn’t hold negotiations with Qatar Holding LLC,
the biggest opposing shareholder, on the weekend and none are
scheduled, according to the person, who asked not to be named
because the matter is private. Should its current proposal fail,
executives are considering a structure for a new offer that
would be more difficult to block, the person said.  Opposition to Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore’s all-share
offer made in February intensified last week when Qatar Holding,
owner of 12 percent of Xstrata, confirmed it would vote against
the current terms on Sept. 7. Glencore owns 34 percent of
Xstrata and wants the rest of the coal, copper and zinc producer
to create the world’s fourth-biggest mining company.  “Pragmatically it would make sense for Glencore to bump
slightly and move on,” Myles Allsop, an analyst at  UBS (UBSN)  AG in
London, said today. “It’s risky because Qatar is a long-term
shareholder and is likely to be patient. If Glencore decides to
come back in 12-18 months time, Glencore will still have to
convince Qatar and other dissenters of the relative value.”  The lack of talks on the final weekend before shareholders
vote heightens the prospect of the deal collapsing. Under the
proposal, known as a scheme of arrangement, just 16.48 percent
of Xstrata shareholders can block the transaction, while
Glencore isn’t allowed to vote its stake.  New Proposal  Glencore is considering returning with an offer structured
as a more conventional takeover should the current plan fail
this week, the person said. That would reduce the level of
acceptances needed to complete a deal to more than 50 percent,
compared with 75 percent using a scheme of arrangement.  Under U.K. takeover rules, Glencore would typically be
barred from returning with an offer for a year. It could only
return within the 12 months with the agreement of Xstrata and
the Takeover Panel, or in the event a rival bidder emerges.  “It is unlikely that Xstrata’s board will recommend a
switch from a scheme to a tender offer over the next 12
months,” UBS’s Allsop said. “If you are going hostile, you’d
have to wait for 12 months and you have to pay a premium. It
moves from a merger of equals to a takeover. It’s a tricky
one.”  Charles Watenphul, a spokesman for Glencore, declined to
comment, while an Xstrata spokesman also wouldn’t comment. Qatar
officials weren’t immediately available to respond.  Billionaire CEO  Glencore rose 0.8 percent to 388.15 pence by the close in
 London . Xstrata fell 0.5 percent to 947.20 pence. Xstrata is
trading at a ratio of 2.44 times that of Glencore, compared with
the current bid of 2.8 shares for each of Xstrata’s.  Glencore’s billionaire Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg, 55, is the largest shareholder of the commodities
trader with about 15.7 percent. Glasenberg has repeatedly
rebuffed calls to raise his offer, saying on Aug. 21 that he was
ready to move on from the transaction rather than overpay.  “The question really boils down to whether they believe it
is better to do the deal now or later,” Jefferies Group Inc.
said in an Aug. 31 note to clients. “Ivan Glasenberg’s
reputation for standing firm in a negotiation is unrivaled.”  The all-stock deal for Baar, Switzerland-based Xstrata was
agreed to between the two companies in February, with Xstrata’s
 Mick Davis  lined up to be the combined company’s CEO and
Glasenberg his deputy and president.  Knight Vinke  Knight Vinke Asset Management LLC, the New York-based
activist fund, also said last week it intends to vote against
the proposal on its current terms.  Schroders Plc (SDR)  and  Standard
Life Investments (SLGLDIA)  have said they would vote it down.  The chance of success was sliding below 30 percent, Liberum
Capital Ltd. said Aug. 29. The initial offer was made at an 8
percent premium, the second-lowest for any mining deal worth
more than $5 billion, according to data Bloomberg compiled.  The cost of insuring against default on debt sold by
Glencore rose by the most among 125 investment-grade companies
in the Markit iTraxx Europe Index today. Credit-default swaps on
Glencore rose 14 basis points to 352, the highest since June 29,
and Xstrata rose 2 basis points to 210.5 basis points.  Opposition to the bid had grown to about 15 percent of
Xstrata investors after the Financial Times reported last month
that  Norway ’s sovereign wealth fund, with 3 percent of Xstrata,
planned to block the deal with Qatar, Liberum said. UBS said
Aug. 20 it saw a 60 percent chance of the deal being voted down.  Qatar’s Position  Analysts including UBS,  Jefferies (JEF) ,  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  and
Liberum have predicted that Glencore would need to raise its
offer to 3 shares to complete the transaction.  Qatar Holding said Aug. 30 that while it supported the deal
in principle, it wouldn’t vote in favor under the current terms.  The Qatari fund “believes that Xstrata has a strong
future, whether in combination with Glencore on acceptable terms
or as a stand-alone entity, and that its shares represent an
attractive long-term investment,” it said.  Glencore met with Qatar in late June after the fund said an
offer of 3.25 Glencore shares was “more appropriate.”  At the same time, Xstrata moved to defuse objections from
its own investors, some of whom criticized the 172.8 million
pounds ($275 million) of retention payments it planned to pay 73
of its executives.  Hong Kong  They include CEO Davis, 54, who stands to receive 28.8
million pounds of shares over three years. The terms of the
payments were altered on June 27, linking some to performance
and converting bonuses to shares rather than cash.  Xstrata shareholders other than Glencore would hold 45
percent of the combined entity, to be known as Glencore Xstrata
International Plc and listed in London and  Hong Kong , the
companies said in February. It would be based in  Switzerland .  Xstrata is working with  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , Deutsche Bank AG and Nomura Bank International Plc
as financial advisers. Glencore, which had agreed to pay Xstrata
a so-called break fee of 298 million pounds should it withdraw
the offer, tapped  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Morgan Stanley. (MS)  Qatar
Holding has been advised by  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  