-- Goethe’s Weimar Honors Poet With Fossils, Michelangelo
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-09-02T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/goethe-s-weimar-honors-poet-with-fossils-michelangelo.html
Germany ’s national poet is
omnipresent in the pretty baroque city of Weimar. Walking from
Goetheplatz to the  Goethe National Museum , I passed the Goethe
Cafe, the Goethe Kaufhaus and the Hotel am Goethehaus.  The time is ripe, then, for the comprehensive permanent
exhibition dedicated to the author of “Faust” that has just
opened in the museum building next to his house.  Over two floors,  “Lebensfluten -- Tatensturm”  (Flood of
Life -- Storm of Deeds) explores Johann Wolfgang von Goethe’s
political career, his love life, his interest in art, his
scientific research and, of course, his writing. (It turns out
he didn’t actually write in later life; he dictated, and then
made additions and corrections by hand.)  Exhibits range from his extravagantly embroidered
suspenders to his collection of erotic cameos; from his heavy
gray wool travelling coat to a copy of Michelangelo’s “Last
Judgment” that found its way into his collection.  Goethe was an obsessive collector. The museum estimates
that he accumulated as many as 56,000 items, from coins to art,
rocks to ceramics. Just a fraction is on display here -- his
geological samples, fossils of fish, animal skulls and
Renaissance faience plates.  Classical Staircase  The new show gives a sense of the times, and is a welcome
complement to Goethe’s house next door, which brings alive the
author in a way no exhibition could.  The grand classical staircase he added, inspired by a visit
to  Italy , the casts of Greek and Roman sculptures, and the walls
covered in paintings and graphics provide insight into his
tastes and varied interests.  Cabinets for his collections line the rooms, many of which
are painted in cheery bright colors. As a young musician, Felix Mendelssohn entertained guests for hours on the piano in one of
the drawing rooms.  The writer moved into the spacious house in 1782 as a
tenant. In 1792, Duke Carl August of Saxe-Weimar-Eisenach bought
it for Goethe as an important mentor who was also his privy
councilor.  Goethe held an astonishing array of offices under the
duke’s reign -- he was in charge of the local copper mines,
waterworks, road-building, taxes and fires and flood crisis
management. Later, he oversaw the theater (where he staged many
of Friedrich Schiller’s plays), the building of the city palace
and the ducal libraries.  Crammed Study  He died in his house in 1832 at the age of 82, in an
armchair next to the simple wooden bed, by his study crammed
with his books and collections. The study is still exactly as it
was at the time of Goethe’s death, thanks to a detailed
inventory.  The number of visitors to Goethe’s house each day is
limited and often there is greater demand than can be
accommodated at once, so people are allocated times and sent
away. The new exhibition offers a good way to while away the
time before your time slot.  It also adds to a growing list of reasons to visit Weimar,
which has experienced a rapid transformation in the past 20
years. A city of palaces, parks, cobbled streets with a
remarkable literary tradition, it has this year already marked
the opening of the  Goethe and Schiller Archive  after renovation.  The beautiful  Duchess Anna Amalia Library  with its gilded
Rococo Hall, horrifically damaged by fire in 2004, has opened in
renewed splendor after thorough reconstruction. A new Bauhaus
museum is planned for 2015. The city palace is to be revamped to
house exhibitions and be more accessible to the public -- at the
moment, a lot of it is occupied by offices.  Weimar is still changing fast.  Information:  http://www.klassik-stiftung.de/index.php?id=20   (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris art.  To contact the reporter on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Weimar at  chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 