-- Gold Wagers on Rally Jump to Five-Month High on Stimulus
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-09-03T20:24:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/gold-wagers-jump-to-5-month-high-as-fed-spurs-rally-commodities.html
Speculators increased bets on rising
gold prices to the highest since March as mounting speculation
that the  Federal Reserve  will expand its record stimulus drove
the metal to its second-biggest monthly gain this year.  Money managers raised their net-long positions by 19
percent to 131,687 futures and options contracts in the week to
Aug. 28, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.
Combined bets across 18 U.S. commodities fell 1.9 percent to 1.3
million  contracts , still near the highest in 15 months. The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials gained for
the fifth straight week, the longest rally since June 2011.  Investors accumulated record holdings last week in
 exchange-traded products  backed by gold, exceeded only by the
U.S. and  Germany  when compared with national reserves. Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  pledged in an Aug. 31 speech to promote
growth with “additional policy accommodation as needed.” The
price of the metal rose 70 percent as the Fed bought $2.3
trillion of debt in two rounds of quantitative easing from
December 2008 through June 2011.  “Anytime they’re putting more money into the economy, it’s
good news for gold,” said Dan Denbow, a fund manager at the
$1.8 billion USAA Precious Metals & Minerals Fund in San
Antonio. The outlook for monetary stimulus “allows the risk-on
trade to come back in to the market.”  Commodity Rally  The GSCI index rose 6.2 percent in August for a third
straight monthly gain, the longest rally since April 2011. Gold
climbed 4.5 percent last month, exceeded this year only by
January’s 11 percent jump. The MSCI All-Country World Index of
equities advanced 1.9 percent, and the dollar fell 1.7 percent
against a measure of six trading partners. Treasuries lost 0.1
percent, according to a Bank of America Corp. index.  Eighteen of the 24 commodities tracked by the GSCI gauge
increased in August, led by a 13 percent gain in silver, the
biggest jump since January. Soybeans and corn rose to records
last month as the most-severe U.S. drought since 1936 scorched
fields. The number of  contracts  outstanding across the raw
materials tracked by S&P expanded 1.5 percent last month, the
most since March.  The GSCI index surged 92 percent from the end of December
2008 through June 2011 as the Fed kept  interest rates  near zero
and bought government and housing debt. Gold rose to a record
$1,923.70 an ounce in September 2011. The spot price was little
changed at $1,692.40 at 4 p.m.  New York  time after extending a
rally to a five-month high.  ‘Grave Concern’  Bernanke’s told an annual forum in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming ,
last week that U.S. unemployment remains a “grave concern.” In
two weeks, he leads a meeting of the  Federal Open Market
Committee . In 2010, the Fed chairman used the Wyoming gathering
to foreshadow $600 billion of bond buying in the second round of
quantitative easing.  Central bank action may not be enough to stave off slowing
global growth that will crimp demand for commodities including
copper, said James Dailey, who manages $215 million at TEAM
Financial Asset Management LLC in Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania .  Two rounds of large-scale asset purchases have failed to
lower the U.S. jobless rate below 8 percent, more than three
years into the recovery. In the week ended Aug. 25, initial
jobless  claims  were higher than forecast, the Labor Department
said Aug. 30. American  consumer confidence  fell by the most in
10 months in August, a Conference Board report showed Aug. 28.  Europe Unemployment  Unemployment in the 17-nation euro area rose to a record
 11.3 percent  in July, the same as in June, the European Union’s
statistics office said Aug. 31. The region’s economic confidence
fell to the lowest in almost three years last month, the
European Commission said Aug. 30.  “The global economy is decelerating, which will trump any
type of monetization,” said Chad Morganlander, a  Florham Park ,
New Jersey-based  fund manager  at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., which
oversees about $127 billion of assets. “The global slowdown
within the economy will eventually catch up to prices in the
not-too-distant future.”  Europe  consumes 18 percent of the world’s copper and
accounts for 22 percent of oil demand, data from Barclays Plc
and BP Plc show. The U.S. is the world’s largest oil and corn
consumer, and  China  is the biggest user of metals, soybeans and
cotton.  Inflows to raw-material funds totaled $1.37 billion in the
week ended Aug. 29, the fourth gain in five weeks, according to
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global, which tracks the
funds. Almost all the gains were attributable to gold and
precious-metal funds, which took in about $1.35 billion, said
 Cameron Brandt , the director of research.  Platinum Holdings  Holdings in gold-backed ETPs are up 4.4 percent this year,
reaching a record 2,460.46 metric tons on Aug. 29. The amount of
silver held in global ETPs has risen for four months, the
longest climb since December 2010. Platinum holdings are up 12
percent this year, and the palladium hoard has grown 17 percent.  Billionaire  John Paulson  raised his stake in the  SPDR Gold
Trust (GLD) , the biggest bullion-backed ETP, by 26 percent in the
second quarter, and  George Soros  more than doubled his holdings,
according to government filings. In August, U.S. sales of gold
coins jumped 28 percent from July.  Funds increased their silver  holdings  by 46 percent to
25,527 contracts in the week to Aug. 28, the fifth straight
gain, the CFTC data show. Platinum bets jumped 31 percent to the
highest since March. Wagers on a palladium rally more than
doubled in August, the most since at least January 2010.  Hurricane Isaac  Investors raised bullish oil bets by 7.2 percent to 192,471
contracts, the most since May, according to the CFTC data.
Prices rose 0.3 percent last week to $96.47 a barrel in New
York. It was a fifth weekly gain, driven by the threat of
Hurricane Isaac moving toward the  Gulf of Mexico  and an
explosion closing Venezuela’s largest refinery. Isaac weakened
to a tropical depression after making landfall in Louisiana as a
Category 1 hurricane on Aug. 28.  A  measure  of 11 U.S. farm goods showed speculators lowered
bullish wagers in agricultural commodities by 5.1 percent to
865,437 contracts. The bets have more than doubled since the end
of May as the U.S. drought cut the prospects for crop yields.
Based on average temperatures and rain in June and July, the
drought in the Midwest was the most severe in 76 years,
according to T-Storm Weather LLC.  “As long as there is a worldwide monetary bias toward
liquidity, easier money, quantitative easing and other measures,
the underlying environment for an increase in commodity prices
is favorable,” said  Michael Cuggino , who manages about $17
billion at San Francisco-based Pacific Heights Asset Management.
While Bernanke “didn’t really say anything new, he kept the
door very, very open to further action down the road,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  