-- Guar Gum Exports From India to Drop on Halliburton Stocks
-- B y   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2012-09-03T06:57:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/guar-gum-exports-from-india-to-drop-on-halliburton-stocks.html
India’s exports of guar gum, a
thickening agent used for oil and gas extraction, are poised to
drop 20 percent this year as high inventory and a slump in
prices cool demand among users including  Halliburton Co. (HAL)   Shipments may total 400,000 metric tons in the year that
began on April 1, compared with 500,000 tons a year earlier,
said P.K. Hissaria, president of the Indian Guar Gum
Manufacturers Association. Prices plunged 69 percent to about
30,000 rupees ($539) per 100 kilograms from a record 95,920
rupees in March after India banned futures trading, he said.  An increase in inventory amid declining demand will
pressure prices further, Hissaria said. A nine-fold surge in
prices in a year prompted Halliburton, the world’s largest
provider of hydraulic-fracturing services, to warn of negative
impact on  profit margins  in April.  “Export queries are less now because oil-services
companies built huge inventory fearing that guar gum might not
be available,” Hissaria said in a phone interview on Aug. 31.
“Since prices have come down, they are not buying and are using
their inventory.”  Halliburton’s North American operating profit margin
dropped 4.8 percentage points to 20.7 percent in the second
quarter compared with the first quarter as the company purchased
too much guar gum too early with high prices. “We should not
have purchased the extra inventory,” Chief Executive Officer
Dave Lesar told said on a conference call on July 24.  Fracking Slows  Halliburton helps companies drill and complete oil and gas
wells using a pressure-pumping technique known as fracking,
which blasts water mixed with sand and chemicals underground to
free trapped hydrocarbons from shale formations. Guar gum, made
from beans, is used to blend materials in fracking.  “Fracking activities in shale gas have drastically come
down as prices of shale gas have come down,” Hissaria said.  The shale gas boom helped the U.S. meet 81 percent of its
energy demand in 2011, the highest level since 1992, according
to Energy Department data compiled by Bloomberg. Improved
drilling techniques including fracking contributed to record
U.S. output. Natural gas prices, which have fallen for four
straight years, are 11 percent higher this year on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange.  Falling prices for fracking work spread to more liquid
basins in  North America  in the second quarter, Paal Kibsgaard,
chief executive officer of  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) , the world’s
largest oilfield-services provider, said on July 21. Operating
profit margins for fracking will continue to fall in the third
quarter due to lower prices and more expensive materials, he
said. Prices that Schlumberger is bidding for fracking jobs are
down about 20 percent from their peak, Kibsgaard said.  Food Emulsifier  Demand may reemerge from late October with the arrival of
fresh crop, Hissaria said. Indian  processors  are running their
plants at about 30 percent of the capacity due to lower demand
and a lack of seeds, according to the group.  Guar gum, extracted from the seeds of a leguminous plant
grown in  India ,  Pakistan  and the U.S., is also an ingredient in
food emulsifiers, additives and thickeners. India accounts for
more than 70 percent of the global seed production, according to
the  Multi Commodity Exchange of India Ltd.   The area under guar in Rajasthan, Haryana and Gujarat, the
biggest producers, increased to 3.53 million hectares (8.7
million acres) as of Aug. 31 from 3.09 million hectares a year
earlier, according to  government data . Farmers in Rajasthan,
which produces 70 percent of the nation’s crop, sowed the crop
in 2.75 million hectares after monsoon rains revived in August.  “My initial expectation in April was that the sowing area
would be doubled as the weather bureau predicted normal
rainfall,” Hissaria said. When the rain arrived after a delay,
it was insufficient and dashed predictions, he said.  The rainfall has been 12 percent below a 50-year average
since the start of the monsoon season on June 1, according to
the  India Meteorological Department .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prabhudatta Mishra in  New Delhi  at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  