-- Michigan Auto Revival Spreading Stabilizes Property After Slide
-- B y   J e f f   G r e e n
-- 2012-09-02T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/michigan-auto-revival-spreading-stabilizes-property-after-slide.html
Property values in Ottawa County,
Michigan, a lakeside community of 266,300 known for its annual
Tulip Time festival, may halt a three-year slide in 2013 as the
auto-industry comeback spreads across the state’s economy.  “We do think things are improving,” said Keith Van Beek,
assistant administrator for the county that was forced to
eliminate 46 positions in recent years to balance its budget.
“We’re still not looking at restoring things we cut. It’s not
that good yet. But we feel like we’re getting back to
equilibrium.”  Michigan’s economic health ranked second among U.S. states
in the first quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The state trailed only  North Dakota , which is benefiting from an
oil-drilling boom.  The improving economy means only one-third of Michigan’s
local governments say they’re somewhat or significantly less
able to meet their fiscal needs this year, according to a survey
released today by the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy at
the University of Michigan. That compares with 48 percent in
2011 and 61 percent in the 2010 survey of 1,856 general-purpose
governments. About a quarter said conditions improved in the
latest report.  “We see a clear easing trend,” said Thomas Ivacko, one of
the study’s authors. “But you can’t yet say it’s a good time
for local government in Michigan.”  Economic Chaos  The 18-month recession that ended in June 2009, and
bankruptcies that year of two automakers, plunged Michigan’s
economy into chaos. Detroit and three other cities are under
state-appointed emergency managers because of failing finances.  Three years after the federally backed rescue of  General
Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC, 2012 U.S. light-vehicle sales
are on pace to exceed 14 million, the industry’s best year since
2007, according to Autodata Corp., which collects sales
information in  Woodcliff Lake ,  New Jersey . Industrywide
deliveries through July climbed 14 percent, to 8.43 million.
That puts the market on track for a third-straight year of at
least a 10 percent gain, the first such streak since 1973.  Michigan’s unemployment rate of 9 percent is down from 14.2
percent in August 2009, shortly after GM and Chrysler emerged
from the rescue effort. The current jobless rate, even after
three straight months of gains, marks the biggest decrease in
that measure over the last three years among all 50 states.  Along  Lake Michigan  in Ottawa County, 167 miles (269
kilometers) west of  Detroit , unemployment, which peaked at 12.3
percent in 2009, has fallen to an annualized rate of about 6.8
percent so far this year, Van Beek said.  Auto Suppliers  The county has operations for large auto suppliers such as
 Johnson Controls Inc. (JCI) ,  Gentex (GNTX)  Corp. and  Magna International (MGA) 
Corp., he said. Another example of improving fortunes is the
conversion of an idled Delphi Automotive Plc auto-parts plant
into a dairy processing operation, Van Beek said.  Tax valuation, which had been improving at an annual rate
of 6 percent in 2008 started to weaken in 2009 and then fell the
next three years, he said.  This year, projections suggest the values might hold
steady, he said.  “We’re at a point where we probably don’t need to make
additional cuts in employees,” said Van Beek, whose county is
the state’s leading blueberry and turkey producer, according to
its website.  The  University of Michigan  survey marks the first time in
four years that more officials predict good times in the
upcoming year than expect bad times. Yet it also shows that
communities are working to offset continuing declines in revenue
with more cost cuts, Ivacko said.  Of communities responding to the survey, 64 percent said
property tax revenues continue to fall and 46 percent said state
aid was reduced. About 14 percent said they’ll reduce services
and 19 planned to increase fees.  Health-Cost Shifting  About 40 percent of communities plan to increase
cooperation among governments while 36 percent intend to
increase privatization and 62 percent expect to shift more
health care costs to employees, the survey found. About 19
percent cut the number of workers among all communities,
including 59 percent of places with 30,000 or more residents,
according to the survey results.  Home foreclosures rose in 41 percent of the communities
this year, compared with 56 percent last year, according to the
survey.  As its economy has gained,  Michigan ’s state and local bonds
have beaten the $3.7 trillion municipal market this year through
Aug. 29, returning about 5.5 percent, including price change and
interest, versus the U.S. average of 5.4 percent, according to
Barclays Capital index data.  The economic improvement has also helped the state and its
municipalities win a decline in their  relative borrowing costs .
Michigan securities maturing in 10 years yielded 69 basis points
more than top-rated muni debt as of Aug. 30, down from 101 basis
points on Jan. 2, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The devil is in the details, and hundreds of communities
are still in trouble,” Ivacko said. “But I am surprised how
many fewer communities are expecting hardship.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall in  New York  at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  