-- IDB Yield Hits Record, Shares Drop on Rating Cut: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n   a n d   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2012-09-02T13:48:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/idb-yield-hits-record-shares-drop-on-rating-cut-tel-aviv-mover.html
The yield on  IDB Holding Corp. (IDBH) ’s
2020 bond soared to a record and the shares fell after its
 credit rating  was cut and accountants questioned the viability
of the owner of Israel’s biggest mobile-phone provider.  The yield on IDB’s 5.1 percent notes maturing in December
2020 jumped 170 basis points, or 1.7 percentage points, to 78.45
percent, at the 4:30 p.m. close in Tel Aviv, the highest level
since the notes started trading in May 2007. The  shares  dropped
2.1 percent to 14.01 shekels, bringing the slump this year to 64
percent. Israel’s benchmark TA-25 index slipped 0.5 percent.  The second-quarter loss at IDB, whose chairman is Nochi Dankner, increased to 1.27 billion shekels ($316 million) from
883 million shekels in the year-earlier period, the company said
Aug. 31. Standard & Poor’s Maalot that day lowered the holding
company’s rating to CCC, citing a continued deterioration in
liquidity levels and concern over debt repayment abilities over
the coming year.  “Dankner is the latest in the so-called Israeli tycoons to
have run into financial difficulties,” Richard Gussow, an
analyst at DS Securities & Investments in Tel Aviv said today by
phone. “He’ll have to reach a settlement with bondholders and
sell off some of his assets, which could provide a much-needed
lifeline to IDB.”  ‘Rough Days’  Israeli companies will struggle to issue new debt and roll
over maturing liabilities to pay obligations coming due in 12
months, Moody’s Investors Service Inc. said in a report on May
8. More than 30 Israeli companies sought debt forgiveness since
2011 as refinancing costs rose and growth slowed, the Israel
Securities Authority said in a July 1 report.  “The company does not have the ability at this point to
recycle its debt in the  capital markets  or with banks and it
hasn’t yet attained additional sources to repay its debt from
June 2013 onwards,” IDB’s accountants BDO Ziv Haft and KPMG-
Israel said in a so-called going-concern warning in the notes
accompanying the quarterly report. “Significant doubts arise as
to the continued existence of the company,” the accountants
said.  IDB, which has stakes via a unit in  Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL)  and
 Shufersal Ltd. (SAE) , the largest supermarket chain by market value
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, has enough money to
continue operations for “close to a year,” Dankner said in a
letter to employees. The company will sell some assets, cut
expenses and seek partners to get through the current “rough
days,” Dankner, who owns IDB Holding via Ganden Holdings Ltd.,
said in the message that was circulated internally on Aug. 31
and made public yesterday by e-mail.  Selling Assets  A unit of billionaire  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/B)  last month agreed to acquire a U.S. unit of IDB’s  Clal
Insurance Enterprise Holdings Ltd. (CLIS)  for $221 million. IDB said
Aug. 29 it is in talks with a potential investor.  Israeli Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz said today in a
cabinet meeting that he foresees no “significant” damage to
the public’s pension savings as a result of IDB Holding Corp.’s
difficulties, even in a worst-case scenario, according to an e-
mailed statement today.  IDB appointed Avital Bar-Dayan as head of  investor
relations  and debt, according to an e-mailed statement today.  Discount Investment Corp. (DISI) , a unit of IDB, said today its
 Ma’ariv Holdings Ltd. (MARV)  will stop publishing a daily newspaper,
with the exception of a printed weekend edition, and focus on
its website. Discount Investment said Aug. 31 its second-quarter
loss widened to 1.27 billion shekels from 703 million shekels a
year ago.  The Tel-Bond 40 index of corporate bonds fell for a fourth
day, declining less than 0.1 percent to 266.04.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  