-- In Tehran, Nonalignment Gets a New Lease on Life
-- B y   P a n k a j   M i s h r a
-- 2012-09-02T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/in-tehran-nonalignment-gets-a-new-lease-on-life.html
Last week, Iran’s Supreme Leader
 Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  inaugurated the summit of Nonaligned
Movement leaders in Tehran with a blistering attack on the
“dictatorship” of Western countries at the  United Nations
Security Council .  The Iranians then had to listen stony-faced to  Egypt ’s
President Mohamed Mursi, the first Egyptian head of state to
visit Iran since 1979, as he stressed the need for a united
opposition to their ally, the murderous Syrian regime.  Over several decades NAM summits, including the previous
one hosted by Egypt’s  Hosni Mubarak  at  Sharm el-Sheikh , have
resonated with this kind of contradictory rhetoric.  Does it underline the irrelevance of the NAM, or point to
its new role as a platform for emerging powers such as Egypt to
balance their multiple affiliations?  Certainly, the fact that Mubarak and then Khamenei -- one
pro-American, the other anti-, but both disgraced and
discredited in their own countries -- should become the
movement’s helmsmen in recent years argues for the  dissolution 
of this  Cold War  holdover.  No Bombast  You only have to compare Khamenei’s rabble-rousing with the
speech by Indonesia’s President Sukarno at the Indonesia city of
Bandung in 1955, where Asian and African leaders first gathered
on the platform that in 1961 was formalized as the Nonaligned
Movement.  “For many generations,” Sukarno  said , “our peoples have
been the voiceless ones in the world. We have been the
unregarded, the people for whom decisions were made by others
whose interests were paramount, the people who lived in poverty
and humiliation.”  This was more than bombast. The experience of a racist
imperialism and anti-imperial struggle had shaped the Asian and
African leaders who were in stalwart attendance at Bandung.
Bringing together leaders such as  India ’s Jawaharlal Nehru and
Egypt’s Gamal Abdel Nasser, Bandung highlighted their shared
dilemmas and challenges: for instance, what kind of relations to
have with Asia and Africa’s former colonial masters, and what
kind of national economies to develop after a long period of
exploitation during which the industrial North had effectively
relegated the largely agrarian countries of the South to the
ranks of permanent losers.  At its most idealistic (and smug), the Nonaligned Movement
also aimed to project superior values into the realm of
international relations. It rejected the moral grandstanding of
a free world that included apartheid  South Africa  (and could
countenance Jim Crow segregation in the American South).  Most important, it outlined a world beyond the West -- one
not entirely shaped by Western interests and concerns.  As it turned out, most countries, faced with the great
tasks of postcolonial self-strengthening, had their own
interests to protect, and partly aligned themselves with one or
the other superpower (and sometimes with both). In 1955,
 Pakistan , for instance, was already a member of two U.S.-led
security pacts.  The Bandung meeting itself hinted at the differences to
come when the prime minister of  Sri Lanka  insisted on including
a reference to “Soviet colonialism” in the final statement
issued by the conference.  Widening Split  Over the years, the splits widened. India and  China , the
earliest embodiments of the Bandung spirit of friendship and
cooperation, went to war in 1962. NAM continued to reveal its
inability to mediate effectively in any major wars involving its
members, such as a destructive eight-year-long war between Iran
and Iraq in the 1980s.  The collapse of the Soviet Union, and the apparent rise of
the U.S. as the lone superpower, should have brought the
curtains down on it. But then there is a good reason that the
NAM survived for as long as it did. Despite severe internal
dissensions, it provided a broad cover for pragmatic forms of
strategic alignment to newly independent nations.  If anything, this role has become more important in a
multipolar world where regional powers such as China, Egypt,
Iran, South Africa and  Turkey  pursue their interests through
nonexclusive alliances.  Last week,  Manmohan Singh , the most pro-American Indian
prime minister in history, led the biggest foreign delegation to
Tehran. Bypassing U.S. sanctions, India continues to trade with
Iran. It remains dependent on Iran’s  crude oil ; the two
countries also work together in  Afghanistan  -- a role likely to
increase as U.S. troops withdraw and Pakistan’s proxies advance.  Singh signed a momentous nuclear deal with the U.S. in
2005, but India has favored  France  in its recent big arms
purchases. Early this year, some of India’s most respected
public intellectuals and commentators on foreign affairs co-
wrote a document provocatively titled  Nonalignment 2.0 . One of
its numbered points states, “We must seek to achieve a situation
where no other state is in a position to exercise undue
influence on us -- or make us act against our better judgement
and will.”  This also seems to be the motto of many Asian leaders who
attended the NAM summit in Tehran. In practice, it means
improvising unlikely new partnerships and alliances. The
“contact group” for Syria proposed by the Egyptian president
Mursi includes  Saudi Arabia  and Turkey as well as Iran; it
offers a middle path between Western interventionism and Chinese
and Russian obstructionism at the UN.  New Alignments  None of this should come as a surprise, except to those who
are still immersed in fantasies that pit a “concert of
democracies” against authoritarianism -- empty words that now
merely signify minds unable to understand the contemporary world
except through the rephrased ideological binaries of the Cold
War.  Nonalignment as an ideal never had much of a chance. The
movement was never -- and couldn’t be -- a cohesive entity. But
it did allow new and small countries a respite from the
rivalries of big powers, and, sometimes, a way to play them off
against each other. Its absurd rituals, particularly the
increasingly hollow invocations of anti-imperial solidarity,
were always easy to mock. But they concealed larger shifts in
the balance of power and the steady process of decolonization --
the emergence from a West-dominated world that has been speeded
up in our own time by the Arab Spring.  The fulminations of  Iran ’s leaders may again dominate the
news emanating from Tehran. But, as always, it is the fresh
strategic alignments of many of the 120 nations constituting the
Nonaligned Movement that are truly revealing. For they outline
yet again, and more enduringly this time, the shape of the post-
Western world.  ( Pankaj Mishra , is a Bloomberg View columnist, based in
London and Mashobra, India, and the author of “From the Ruins of
Empire: The Revolt Against the West and the Remaking of Asia.”
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on unglamorous but  successful
job-creation programs  and on the  latest Iran nuclear report ;
 Albert R. Hunt  on  Barack Obama’s second-term persona ;  Simon
Johnson  on the  perils of big banks .  To contact the writer of this article:
Pankaj Mishra at  pmashobra@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 