-- India Proposes Tax-Clampdown Delay as Singh Seeks Investment
-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a   a n d   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-09-03T10:37:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/india-signals-natural-death-to-tax-plan-amid-downgrade-threat.html
A panel set up by India’s prime
minister recommended deferring a proposal to crack down on  tax
avoidance  by three years, a move investors said may help boost
capital inflows amid the threat of a rating downgrade to junk.  The General Anti-Avoidance Rule, or GAAR, outlined by
former finance minister  Pranab Mukherjee  in his March 16 budget
spooked foreign investors and raised concerns that the crackdown
with retrospective effect would indiscriminately apply to their
holdings of stocks and bonds. A draft report released on Sept. 1
by the four-member committee suggested delaying its
implementation to the assessment year 2017-18 on
“administrative grounds.”  “It is definitely good news and a sentimental boost,”
said Ananth Narayan G., managing director and co-head of
wholesale banking at Standard Chartered Plc in Mumbai.
“Essentially the proposal will be on hold for the next three
years and hopefully will die a natural death, at least the
retrospective clause.”  Global funds turned net sellers of Indian stocks in April
and May after the proposals, pushing the rupee down to a record
low as Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  grappled with corruption
allegations, a record current-account deficit, and missed budget
targets. Singh set up the panel in July to help “reverse the
climate of pessimism” after Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings
cut the sovereign credit outlook to negative, a step closer to
non-investment grade rating.  Vodafone Ruling  The tax panel led by Parthasarthi Shome, a former adviser
to the finance minister, also suggested abolishing taxes on
proceeds from the transfer of listed securities, whether they
are from  capital gains  or business income, for both Indians and
non-residents.  Mukherjee in the annual budget also proposed clarifications
to allow the retrospective taxation of overseas deals in which
an Indian asset is transferred. The announcement followed a
ruling in January by India’s Supreme Court that  Vodafone Group
Plc (VOD)  doesn’t have to pay $2.2 billion in tax on its purchase in
2007, conducted offshore, of the local business of Hutchison
Whampoa Ltd.  The panel will “look into” the tax treatment of such
deals, Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said at a
briefing in  New Delhi  today. The government is confident of
achieving its direct tax collection target of 5.7 trillion
rupees ($102.7 billion) for the fiscal year ending March 31, he
said.  The rupee gained 0.1 percent to 55.4787 against the dollar
as of 3.45 p.m. in Mumbai, while the yield on the 8.15 percent
bond due June 2022 declined to 8.22 percent from 8.24 percent on
Aug. 31. The BSE  India  Sensitive Index closed down 0.3 percent.  Tax Mitigation  The committee said tax mitigation using legal means should
be distinguished from tax avoidance, and the GAAR rules must be
invoked only in cases of “abusive, contrived and artificial
arrangements.” The rule must not override an international  tax
treaty  with provisions for anti-avoidance, the panel said.  The recommendations also included a monetary threshold of
30 million rupees per taxpayer in a year under the GAAR rule,
according to the report. Singh set up the four member panel,
consisting of tax experts and government officials, in July to
seek suggestions and submit their final recommendations by the
end of September.  Investor concerns that foreign investments will decline
prompted Mukherjee to retreat in May and delay the
implementation of the rule to April 2013.  Standard & Poor’s  cut
its credit outlook to negative on April 25, citing diminishing
growth prospects and slow progress on fiscal reforms. Fitch
followed on June 18.  BlackRock’s iShares  Mukherjee resigned as finance minister on June 26 to become
the president of India a month later, while Chidambaram took
charge from Singh, who held the portfolio until July 31.  The rupee has declined 17.5 percent against the dollar in
the past year, and touched an all-time low of 57.3275 on June 22.
India  attracted  $10.1 billion worth of foreign direct investment
in the six months to June 30 compared to $15.6 billion in the
same period a year ago.  The proposed tax avoidance rules prompted BlackRock Inc.,
the world’s biggest money manager, to tell investors of its
 iShares BSE Sensex India Index ETF (2836)  to “carefully consider their
position and seek advice as necessary,” according to the
exchange-traded fund’s 2012 semi-annual report on June 30.  Ishares BSE has  gained  7.3 percent this year in  Hong Kong ,
compared with a 13 percent increase in the Sensex index.  ‘Like a Sword’  “The GAAR issue was hanging like a sword over foreign
investors,” Kishor Ostwal, managing director of Mumbai-based
equities research provider CNI Research (India) Ltd., said by
phone on Sept. 2. “The announcement will clear a lot of doubts
and accelerate foreign inflows into the stock market.”  A rebound in purchases of stocks by overseas investors is
crucial to reverse the slide in the rupee and fund the current
account deficit that widened to a record 4.2 percent of gross
domestic product in the financial year ended March 31. The $1.8
trillion economy expanded 5.3 percent in the first quarter of
2012, the slowest pace in three years, and 5.5 percent in the
following three months. Growth averaged 7.5 percent in 2011.  Chidambaram on Aug. 7 said he will unveil a plan to contain
India’s fiscal deficit and clarify tax laws to “regain”
investor confidence.  “Our policy actions should match our long term economic
objectives, although in the past year, certain retrograde
measures reversed the economic reforms process,” said Nirakar Pradhan, chief investment officer at Future Generali India Life
Insurance Co. in a telephone interview. “The government should
make more such efforts to attract foreign investments as we are
starved of capital. We need policies that deepen our market and
encourage overseas investments.”  The chances the panel’s recommendations won’t be
implemented in the final report are “fairly” remote, Satya
Poddar, a Gurgaon-based tax partner with Ernst & Young said on
Sept. 1.  “Essentially what they’re saying is that India is not
ready for GAAR and if it is applied, it should be severely
constrained,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tushar Dhara in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net ;
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ;
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  