-- Hiring Probably Limited by Cooling Demand: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-09-02T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/hiring-probably-limited-by-cooling-demand-u-s-economy-preview.html
Payrolls probably grew at a slower
pace in August and unemployment exceeded 8 percent for a 43rd
month, highlighting why  Ben S. Bernanke  said the lack of jobs is
a “grave concern” for U.S. policy makers, economists said
before a report this week.  The employment tally of 125,000 would follow a 163,000 gain
in July, according to the median forecast of 71 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg ahead of Labor Department figures Sept. 7.
The jobless rate likely held at 8.3 percent. A separate report
may show manufacturing teetered between growing and shrinking.  “Payroll growth is pretty lackluster,” said  Joshua Shapiro , chief U.S. economist at Maria Fiorini Ramirez Inc. in
 New York . “It’s going to be hard to bring down the unemployment
rate quickly. Demand is soggy and on top of that we have
weakening exports and fiscal policy uncertainty.”  The stagnant labor market is one reason why more action on
the monetary policy front remains an option, Federal Reserve
Chairman Bernanke said last week. A cycle of below-average gains
in employment and consumer spending is now being reinforced by a
global slowdown and concern over the so-called U.S. fiscal
cliff, making a rebound more daunting to achieve.  The  unemployment rate  has exceeded 8 percent since February
2009, the longest stretch in monthly records going back to 1948.  Payroll gains slowed from an average 226,000 in the first
quarter to 73,000 in the April to June period, before picking up
in July. Including the July advance, it has taken the U.S. three
years to recover about half, or 4 million, of the 8.8 million
jobs lost as a result of the 18-month recession that ended in
June 2009.  Cutting Staff  Businesses reducing workers include  Google Inc. (GOOG) , which said
it will cut about 4,000 jobs at its Motorola Mobility Holdings
Inc. unit. Two-thirds of the reductions will be outside the
U.S., the  Mountain View , California-based company said Aug. 13.  Lexmark International Inc. (LXK) , a Lexington, Kentucky-based
printer maker, said on Aug. 28 it plans to cut 1,700 jobs
globally and shut a factory in the  Philippines .  Dollar Tree Inc. (DLTR) , the U.S. operator of more than 4,500
 discount stores , is attracting bargain-hunting shoppers as
joblessness stays elevated, Chief Executive Officer Bob Sasser
said.  Customers are “struggling to balance their family budgets
in the face of persistently high unemployment and now
unpredictable fuel prices,” he said on an Aug. 16 conference
call with analysts.  Bernanke’s View  Bernanke, in an Aug. 31 speech to central bankers and
economists at an annual forum in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , focused
on “the daunting economic challenges” that confront the U.S.
He also said the Fed will provide additional policy stimulus as
needed to promote a stronger economic recovery.  “The stagnation of the labor market in particular is a
grave concern,” he said. It entails “enormous suffering and
waste of human talent,” and persistently high unemployment
“will wreak structural damage on our economy that could last
for many years.”  Stocks climbed on the prospect that the central bank will
do more. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rallied 0.5 percent to
close at 1,406.58 on Aug. 31, extending a third consecutive
monthly gain.  Jobs and the economy are central themes in the presidential
campaign, with President  Barack Obama  and Republican challenger
 Mitt Romney  each trying to convince voters they can best
energize the expansion.  Manufacturing, a pillar of growth of the early part of the
recovery, is losing steam as global demand softens. The
Institute for Supply Management Inc.’s factory index registered
a reading of 50, the dividing line between growth and
contraction, compared with 49.8 in July, according to the
Bloomberg survey  median . The report will be released on Sept. 4.  Two days later, the Tempe, Arizona-based ISM may report its
 services index , which covers almost 90 percent of the economy,
was little changed at 52.5 in August from the prior month’s 52.6
reading, according to economists surveyed.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  