-- Japan May Add Mortgage Tax Benefits to Cushion Slow Sales
-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 2012-09-02T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/japan-may-add-mortgage-tax-benefits-to-cushion-sales-slowdown.html
Japan  may extend mortgage tax
benefits by five years and raise the deduction rate to cushion
an expected slowdown in  home  sales in 2014 when a consumption
tax increase takes effect.  The finance and land ministries are in talks on a plan that
would save the average home buyer as much as 10 million yen
($128,000) in 2014, compared with 3 million yen this year, the
Nikkei newspaper said Sept. 1 without citing the source of the
information. Details will be decided later this year, it said.  Home sales may slow, retarding economic growth, when the
 sales tax  jumps to 8 percent from 5 percent, Nikkei said.
Property and fund association groups are seeking a tax reduction
for home buyers to counter any slowing of the housing market.  “This is better than doing nothing,” Masaaki Kanno, chief
economist at JPMorgan Securities Japan Co., said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “Numbers show the economic outlook started
deteriorating already, and this is doing little more than to
patch over the problem temporarily.”  The plan will call for extending to 15 years from 10 the
tax benefit for new home buyers starting in 2014 and raising the
deduction to as much as 2 percent of the outstanding mortgage
balance from 1 percent, Nikkei said. The government will
consider further benefits from 2015 when the sales tax jumps to
10 percent, it said.  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  in August won parliamentary
approval for a boost in the sales tax to ease the government’s
reliance on debt to cover the rising costs of care for Japan’s
aging population.  Housing Loans  New housing loans jumped 14.7 percent from a year earlier
in the second quarter, the biggest gain since March 2006,
buoying a housing market entering its third decade of deflation.
About 1.3 trillion yen of extra home purchases are expected
before the tax increase takes effect in 2014, according to
estimates by NLI Research Institute, a Tokyo-based research and
consulting unit of Nippon Life Insurance Co.  Housing investment rose 3.8 percent, the first increase in
five years, to 13.1 trillion yen in the fiscal year ended March
31, according to government data. Japan’s banks offered 2.98
trillion yen of new loans for home purchases in the three months
ended June 30, according to the  Bank of Japan .  Housing investments surged to almost 28 trillion yen in
April 1996, ahead of the most-recent increase in the sales tax
to 5 percent from 3 percent, according to NLI Research. Last-
minute home buying ahead of that tax boost totaled 2.4 trillion
yen.  History shows any gain may be temporary: Japan entered a
20-month recession after the tax was raised in 1997. Housing
investments declined to about 19 trillion yen a year after the
surge, according to NLI.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  