-- Japan, Australian Stock Futures Rise on Stimulus Optimism
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-09-02T23:38:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/japan-australian-stock-futures-rise-on-stimulus-optimism.html
Japanese and Australian  stock 
 futures  rose after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
signaled further monetary easing. Gains in Asian equities may be
limited after China’s manufacturing unexpectedly contracted in
August and the yen’s rise to a three-week high against the
dollar weighs on Japanese exporters.  American depositary receipts of  Honda Motor Co. (7267) ,  Japan ’s
second-largest carmaker by market value, rose 1 percent from the
closing share price in Tokyo. Those of  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) ,
Australia’s No. 2 lender by market value, advanced 1.1 percent.
Sharp Corp. shares may be active after the Nikkei newspaper
reported the Japanese television maker cut the price of a stake
it is selling to Taiwan’s Foxconn Technology Group.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring in
September closed at 8,890 in Chicago on Aug. 31, compared with
8,820 in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 8,900
in Osaka, at 8:18 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index added 0.6 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50
Index gained 0.2 percent in Wellington.  “The market is getting excited about more stimulus,” said
 Donald Williams , chief investment officer at Platypus Asset
Management Ltd. that manages about $1 billion. “You got weak
data coming out of China, and you got mixed data coming out of
the U.S. I think it’s going to be difficult for the market to
keep rallying on the promise of QE and other measures without
some improvement in the data,” he said, referring to Fed’s
asset purchases, known as quantitative easing.  Asset Purchases  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  were little
changed today. The index advanced 0.5 percent in New York on
Aug. 31, capping its third monthly gain, after Bernanke said he
wouldn’t rule out measures to lower the jobless rate. Two rounds
of large-scale asset purchases have failed to bring the
 unemployment rate  below 8 percent more than three years into the
recovery.  Additional monetary easing in the U.S. could be a mixed
blessing for Japanese equities because it buoys investors’ risk
sentiment while weakening the dollar against the yen. The dollar
touched 78.19 yen on Aug. 31, the lowest since Aug. 13.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  lost 0.8 percent in August, the
first monthly drop since May, on concern policy makers won’t
introduce enough stimulus measures to revive the global economy.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark were valued at 12.3 times
estimated earnings on average as of last week, compared with
13.6 times for the S&P 500 and 11.6 times for the Stoxx Europe
600 Index.  In  China , the Purchasing Managers Index fell to 49.2 in
August from 50.1 in July, the National Bureau of Statistics and
China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said Sept. 1.
That’s the first contraction in nine months.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. rose 1.4 percent in August to
87.95, the steepest rise since February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 