-- NASA Helps Hatch Robots for Drilling Oil Without Humans: Energy
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-09-03T17:33:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/nasa-helps-hatch-robots-for-drilling-oil-without-humans-energy.html
NASA ’s Mars rover has something to
teach the oil industry.  Traversing the Red Planet while beaming data through space
has a lot in common with exploring the deepest recesses of earth
in search of crude oil and natural gas.  Robotic Drilling Systems
AS , a Norwegian company developing a drilling rig that can think
for itself, signed an information-sharing agreement with NASA to
discover what it might learn from the rover Curiosity.  The company’s work is part of a larger futuristic vision
for the  energy industry . Engineers foresee a day when fully
automated rigs roll onto a job site using satellite coordinates,
erect 14-story-tall steel reinforcements on their own, drill a
well, then pack up and move to the next site.  “You’re seeing a new track in the industry emerging,”
says  Eric van Oort , a former  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  executive
who’s leading a new graduate-level engineering program focused
on automated drilling at the  University of Texas  at Austin.
“This is going to blossom.”  Apache Corp. (APA)  and  National Oilwell Varco Inc. (NOV) , both Houston-
based, along with  Norway ’s  Statoil ASA (STL)  are among the companies
working on technology to take humans out of the most repetitive,
dangerous, and time-consuming parts of oil field work.  “It sounds futuristic,” says Kenneth Sondervik, sales and
marketing vice president for Robotic Drilling Systems. He
compares it to other areas that have become highly automated,
such as car manufacturing or cruise missile systems.  Tough Sell  Until recently, robots have been a hard sell in an industry
that has long relied on human ingenuity, says Mark Reese,
president of rig solutions at National Oilwell Varco.  “In the past, it’s been all about, ‘We need more and more
people and experience, and that’s the only way to accomplish
this task,’” Reese said.  The 2010 BP disaster in the  Gulf of Mexico  helped shift
attitudes, says Clay Williams, chief financial officer at
National Oilwell Varco. Eleven men were killed when the
Deepwater Horizon rig caught fire and sank. Statoil has
projected that automation may cut in half the number of workers
needed on an offshore rig and help complete jobs 25 percent
faster, says Steinar Strom, former head of a research and
development unit on automation at the Norwegian company.  Robot Deckhands  Robotic Drilling Systems is designing a  series  of robots to
take over the repeatable tasks now done on rigs by pipehandlers,
deckhands and roughnecks. Its blue, 10-foot-tall robot deckhand
has a jointed arm that can extend about 10 feet, with 15 or so
interchangeable hands of assorted sizes. The robot is anchored
in place to give it better leverage as it lifts drill bits that
weigh more than a ton and maneuvers them into place.  The Sandnes, Norway-based company also is collaborating
with researchers at  Stanford University  on a three-fingered
robot hand embedded with sensors that give it a touch delicate
enough to pick up an egg without crushing it.  The Mars rover is designed to collect data and take action
on its own based on programmed reasoning. As a step in that
direction, some companies are working on technology that will
make drill bits more intelligent and able to respond instantly
to conditions they encounter, such as extreme temperatures or
high pressures.  National Oilwell Varco, the largest U.S. maker of oilfield
equipment, and  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) , the world’s largest oilfield
services provider, have developed drill pipe wired with high-
speed data lines to allow the bit to feed information to workers
at the surface.  Thinking Bits  Apache, the third-largest U.S. independent oil and natural-
gas producer by market value, is writing software that will
essentially allow the drill bit to think for itself,
communicating directly with equipment at the surface that
controls speed and direction.  Graham Brander, the company’s director of worldwide
drilling, sees it working much like a plane on autopilot, flying
on its own with a human on standby, ready to assume the controls
if necessary.  “That’s what I view very much as the automation model for
the oil and gas business,” he says.  Other breakthroughs are taking place onshore, where
producers are racing to drill tens of thousands of wells in U.S.
shale fields. On a recent morning in north Houston, Johnny
Alverson, a senior foreman at rig builder  Drilling Structures
International Inc. , fired up an 1,800-horsepower John Deere
engine and picked up a remote control box as big as a car
battery as he prepared to move a 167-foot-tall  drilling rig 
without the aid of a crane.  With the push of a couple of buttons on the remote, the
green light lit up next to “walk” and the rig slowly heaved
itself up five inches off the ground on four large, flat feet.
The $20 million monster can move at a rate of a foot a minute.
Says Drilling Structures Executive Vice President  P.J. Rivera :
“You start to feel good about yourself when you can pick up a
million pounds with the flick of a thumb.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  