-- Netanyahu Says World Not Doing Enough to Stop a Nuclear Iran
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2012-09-02T11:20:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/netanyahu-says-world-not-doing-enough-to-stop-iran-nuclear-drive.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said today that diplomacy and sanctions have failed to
halt  Iran’s nuclear program , and the international community is
not demonstrating sufficient resolve on the issue.  “I believe we need to say the truth, that the
international community has not set a clear ‘red line’ on Iran,
and Iran doesn’t see international determination to stop its
nuclear program,” Netanyahu said at the weekly cabinet meeting
in Jerusalem, in remarks broadcast on  Army Radio . “Iran cannot
get nuclear weapons.”  Israeli leaders have said repeatedly that Iran’s nuclear
program is intended to build weapons that pose an existential
threat, and that all options are on the table to stop it.
Netanyahu told U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  on Aug. 1
that time “is running out” for a peaceful solution to Iran’s
atomic program. Israel is widely believed to be the only
nuclear-armed state in the  Middle East , a status the country
hasn’t confirmed or denied.  The Israeli leader said today the report released by the
International Atomic Energy Agency on Aug. 30 confirms that
economic sanctions placed by the U.S. and European Union on Iran
have failed to delay its nuclear program. The IAEA said Iran’s
stockpile of medium-enriched uranium grew 31 percent in May.  Iranian leaders have said its program is intended only for
civilian purposes, and it has no intention to make nuclear
weapons. Negotiations between Iran and the so-called P5+1 -- the
U.S., U.K.,  China , Russia, France and Germany -- on limiting its
nuclear program have so far failed to reach agreement.  “The Iranians are using the discussions with the
superpowers in order to gain time and to advance their nuclear
program,” Netanyahu said today.  U.S. General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff, said last week that any Israeli attack on Iran would
delay but not stop the Iranian program, and any gain from a
delay would probably be lost to an all-out rush by Iran to make
weapons after it ejects IAEA monitoring. Dempsey told
journalists in London that an Israeli attack lacking
international support could also help Iran by causing sanctions
to unravel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in  Jerusalem  at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  