-- Obama Says Romney Recycling Ideas That Didn’t Create Jobs
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-09-02T21:49:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/obama-says-romney-recycling-ideas-that-didn-t-create-jobs.html
President  Barack Obama , stopping in
the swing state of  Colorado  en route to the Democratic National
Convention, said his Republican opponents are offering nothing
more than discredited policies they have touted before.  “They have tried to sell us this tired, trickle down,
you’re on your own, snake oil before,” Obama told 13,000 people
gathered at the University of Colorado-Boulder. “Those ideas
don’t work, they didn’t work then, they won’t work now, they did
not  create jobs , they did not cut the  deficit .”  Leading into the convention, which begins in  Charlotte ,
 North Carolina  on Sept. 4, Obama is crisscrossing the country on
a tour of key battleground states -- Iowa, Colorado, Ohio and
 Virginia  -- all of which he won in 2008 and where he’s now
locked in tight contests with Republican presidential nominee
 Mitt Romney .  Trends aren’t necessarily on Obama’s side: the unemployment
rates in Iowa, Virginia and Colorado increased in July from the
previous month. Along with North Carolina, they hold 61 of the
270 Electoral College votes needed to win the White House.  The president used his speech to contrast his proposals
with those of Romney’s.  Mobilizing Voters  Appearances like today’s in Colorado are part of an effort
to mobilize and register new voters. Campaign volunteers had
voter registration forms for those at today’s rally, and Obama
alluded to the need for them to register and vote.  “The good news is, you get to choose the path we take,”
Obama said. “You can go with their plan to give massive new tax
cuts to folks who have already made it, or we could go forward
with my plan to keep taxes low for every American who is still
trying to make it.”  Romney’s aides say he is laying out a clear plan for
creating jobs, and charge Obama is trying to obscure his record.  “Instead of delivering hope and change, the president has
resorted to divisive attacks to distract voters from the
problems facing middle-class families,” Romney’s press
secretary, Andrea Saul, said.  In his speech, Obama touted his support for allowing women
to decide whether to have an abortion, for same-sex marriage,
for his executive order ending deportations of those brought to
the U.S. illegally as children, and for his health-care
legislation, which allows young people to remain on their
parents’ plans until age 26.  “Despite all the challenges that we face in this new
century, what they offered over those three days was an agenda
that was better suited for the last century,” Obama said.  “It
could have been at ‘Nick at Nite.’ We’ve seen it before. You
might as well have watched it on a black and white TV with some
rabbit ears.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Boulder, Colorado, at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 