-- London Luxury Homebuilding to Jump 70% on Foreigner Cash
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-09-03T13:23:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/london-luxury-homebuilding-to-jump-70-on-foreigner-cash.html
Luxury-home builders plan to
complete more than 15,000 houses and apartments in  London  over
the next decade as demand from overseas encourages development
outside the city’s traditional prime neighborhoods, according to
EC Harris LLP.  The 10-year development pipeline has increased 70 percent
from a year earlier and companies now expect to construct homes
with a sales value of 38 billion pounds ($60 billion), the
consulting firm said in a report today. About 3,800 units are
expected to be completed in 2016, more than seven times this
year’s total of 500.  “The pipeline now is pretty unprecedented,” Mark Farmer,
head of residential property for EC Harris, said in an
interview. “Follow where the money is and at the moment it’s in
London prime.”  Home prices  in London’s most expensive areas have gained 49
percent since a March 2009 low point and are now 14 percent
above the previous peak in 2008, according to broker  Knight
Frank  LLP. Investors from abroad, including the  Middle East  and
mainland  Europe , consider central London real estate a safe
haven from economic and political unrest in their home markets.  About 2 billion pounds worth of new luxury homes were sold
in 2011 at developments such as One Hyde Park, Farmer said. The
firm estimates sales of 10.2 billion pounds in 2016 and 8.5
billion pounds the following year.  One Hyde Park  An apartment at One Hyde Park was put on the market today
for 65 million pounds, according to broker Aylesford
International. The property, taking up an entire floor of the
development, is 9,000 square feet (836 square meters) resulting
in a price of 7,200 pounds a square foot.  Despite the price surge, starting development based on
today’s market carries some risk for the builder, Farmer said.  “There’s always the chance you miss the boat and by the
time you deliver your scheme things aren’t quite as good as they
are now,” he said.  Prices in affluent neighborhoods such as Knightsbridge and
Belgravia will reach 10,000 pounds a square foot by 2016 because
of a lack of luxury-home supply in the city’s best locations,
Knight Frank said in December.  Chelsea and Fulham are the strongest areas for new
development, accounting for one in four of the planned homes,
according to EC Harris. The next is the South Bank, with 17
percent, followed by the City of London financial district and
its fringes and the Midtown area between the City and  West End .  Prices Rise  London luxury home prices have gained 9.9 percent in the
year through August, Knight Frank said in a report today. That’s
the smallest annual gain since last August. Values rose 0.5
percent from last month, the London-based broker said.  Newly built luxury properties likely to be sold this year,
include the final homes at One Hyde Park as well as Northacre
Plc’s The Lancasters site, a city block of renovated 1850s
townhouses across from Hyde Park, EC Harris said. Units in the
Shard skyscraper across the  River Thames  from the City of London
will also probably be sold this year. The Shard, western
Europe’s tallest building, has apartments on floors 53 to 65.  “There’s quite a big peak of potential development
activity in 2016 and 2017,” said Farmer. “One of the big
issues is how many of those schemes can developers and
landowners actually get funded.”  Berkeley Group Holdings Plc (BKG) , the U.K.’s largest homebuilder
by market value, acquired derelict offices in the City of London
and City of Westminster and is converting them into luxury
homes.  Barratt Developments Plc (BDEV)  and  Taylor Wimpey Plc (TW/) , two of
Berkeley’s competitors, have focused on building homes for the
mainstream market.  ‘Growth Curve’  An influx of companies into London’s prime real estate
development market is inflating land prices and diminishing the
availability of stock, according to Andrew Murray, co-founder of
luxury developer  Morpheus London Ltd .  “I’d like a leveling of the turf,” he said in a telephone
interview. “A steep growth curve isn’t attractive for our
business and attracts outsiders into our market.”  An apartment in One Hyde Park, a luxury complex conceived
by Christian and Nick Candy, sold for 7,500 pounds a square foot
after being furnished last year. A penthouse apartment in
Knightsbridge was purchased for about 100 million pounds, a
person with knowledge of the transaction said in December.  Morpheus develops homes in London’s Mayfair, Kensington and
Belgravia districts that cost as much as 3,500 pounds a square
foot. It’s currently building three townhouses in Chelsea and
renovating a 19th century house in Belgravia.  Real estate developers  hoping to attract similar prices for
units in their luxury projects may be left disappointed,
according to Farmer.  “There may be a question mark about the sustainability of
some of the price growth we’ve seen in the last year or two in
certain areas of super-prime London, which has been
phenomenal,” he said by phone.  Brokers including Savills Plc and Knight Frank define prime
real estate as homes in the most expensive central London
neighborhoods such as Belgravia, Kensington and Knightsbridge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 