-- Hong Kong Recession Risk May Increase on Exports, Tsang Says
-- B y   S i m o n   L e e
-- 2012-09-03T02:32:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/hong-kong-recession-risk-may-rise-as-exports-falter-tsang-says.html
Hong Kong ’s risk of a “technical
recession” may increase after declines in exports and a
slowdown in retail sales, Financial Secretary  John Tsang  said.  “We are unable to escape the impact of the  European debt
crisis ,” Tsang wrote on his blog yesterday in Chinese. He
didn’t give a forecast for third-quarter gross domestic product.  Hong Kong’s economy shrank 0.1 percent in the second
quarter from the previous three months as the sovereign debt
crisis in Europe capped  export  demand. China’s slowdown is
dragging on trade, weighing on confidence and encouraging the
million of mainlanders who visit each month to spend less on
luxury goods.  The benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI) , down about 10 percent from
this year’s high in February, was little changed as of 10:19
a.m. local time. Hong Kong’s retail sales grew in July at the
slowest pace since the global financial crisis. The city’s
exports fell 3.5 percent from a year earlier.  A shrinking economy would add to challenges for Chief
Executive Leung Chun-ying, who took office July 1 and faces
public concern over housing costs, the gap between rich and poor
and the mainland government’s role in education. Thousands of
residents demonstrated on Sept. 1 to protest a planned education
program they say will be Communist Party propaganda.  Retail figures are “worrying” and it will be difficult
for exports to return to growth in the short term, Tsang said,
adding that the city also faces a risk of rising unemployment.  Donna Kwok, an economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in Hong Kong,
said Aug. 30 that visitors from China are paring spending on
 luxury goods  and  consumer confidence  has weakened, “weighed
down by continued turbulence in global financial markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee650@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  