-- Monte Paschi Bondholders Face 60% Loss Risk: Corporate Finance
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 2012-09-03T08:28:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/monte-paschi-bondholders-face-60-loss-risk-corporate-finance.html
Investors in about 5 billion euros
($6.3 billion) of  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA ’s junior
 debt  face a more than even-money chance of suffering losses as
bad loans pile up at the world’s oldest bank.  The cost of insuring 10 million euros of the lender’s
subordinated debt is 2.75 million euros in advance and 500,000
euros a year, signaling an almost 60 percent probability of
default, according to data provider CMA. That’s up from 1.7
million euros upfront on Jan. 1, and credit-default swaps on
Monte Paschi’s senior and junior bonds are the worst-performing
among 92 European lenders this year, Bloomberg data show.  Subordinated debt investors and shareholders should take
losses to recapitalize the bank that was founded in 1472,
according to  Alberto Gallo , head of European credit research at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London. Siena, Italy-based
Monte Paschi, which posted a 1.67 billion-euro quarterly loss
last week, already asked the government for aid as provisions
against bad debts surged 40 percent to 409 million euros.  “Some form of burden-sharing should be implemented, rather
than using public funds first to recapitalize the bank,” Gallo
said. “In the worst-case scenario, a resolution regime could be
implemented in which sub-debt and equity holders take losses.”  Fourth Recession  Italy’s fourth recession since 2001 coupled with the
austerity plan implemented by Prime Minister  Mario Monti  is
hurting businesses, making it harder for them to repay debt.  Unemployment held at 10.7 percent in July as employers
remain reluctant to hire amid a deepening crisis that has seen
the nation’s debt spiral to more than $2 trillion. The country
remains one of the most vulnerable to contagion from  Europe ’s
troubles, which begin in  Greece  almost three years ago.  Monte Paschi’s loan book is “very fragmented and exposed
to small borrowers,” according to a research note by Gallo.  Credit-default swaps insuring the bank’s senior debt rose
44 percent this year to 790 basis points, the most of any
European bank, Bloomberg data show. That compares with a 24
percent increase at the second-worst performer and  Spain ’s
second-largest bank, Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA.  A total of 4,726 credit-default swaps contracts protecting
a net $972 million of Monte Paschi’s debt were outstanding as of
Aug. 24, according to the  Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.   Swaps Liquidity  A basis point on a swap protecting 10 million euros of debt
from default for five years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.
The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  “Monte Paschi is always committed to fulfilling its
obligations with each different category of bondholders from
covered to subordinated ones,” according to a statement from
the bank. “The CDS prices cannot be taken as a real probability
of default at this moment due to the lack of liquidity.”  A total of 27 credit-default swaps covering a net $107
million of Monte Paschi debt was traded in the week ending Aug.
24, according to  DTCC , which runs a central registry for the
swaps market that captures most trading.  The bank is borrowing 3.4 billion euros by selling bonds to
the state after failing to find private investors to close a 3.3
billion-euro capital shortfall identified by the European
Banking Authority. It’s also one of the top 10 biggest users of
the  European Central Bank ’s 1 trillion-euro longer-term
refinancing operations, taking 29 billion euros of loans.  Capital Ratio  Monte Paschi’s core Tier 1 capital ratio, boosted by 1.9
billion euros of government funding, is 10.8 percent, and 8.85
percent net. The ratio is a key measure of a bank’s financial
health.  That compares with a ratio of 10.7 percent for Italy’s
second-biggest bank,  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , and 10.24 percent for
the country’s fifth-largest lender,  Unione di Banche Italiane
SCPA , according to filings.  Monte Paschi may become the first Italian lender since the
1990s to have the government as a shareholder because it must
give shares to the Treasury in lieu of interest on its
borrowings if it reports an annual loss, according to a law
approved this month.  Italy  sold bank holdings in the 1990s as it
sought to improve lenders’ profitability and foster
consolidation.  Irish Losses  Investors in the subordinated debt of Irish banks suffered
about 15 billion euros of losses after the nation’s lenders
collapsed under the weight of bad property loans. In Spain, the
government was said to have balked at using European Union money
to bail out Bankia group because it didn’t want to impose losses
on junior debt investors.  Monte Paschi bondholders may escape losses because the
bank’s financial health isn’t as “disastrous” as may first
appear, according to Roger Francis, a credit analyst at Mizuho
International Plc in London. The lender’s  second-quarter loss 
mostly comprised a 1.6 billion-euro goodwill writedown, he said.  “Above a certain threshold of assistance, the EU will
insist on burden sharing by sub-debt holders, which would likely
include a halt to discretionary calls and coupon payments,”
Francis said. “In terms of actual realized capital losses, I’d
say that’s still a very low probability.”  Junior notes known as Tier 1 securities rank below senior
bank loans and other bonds for payment and are first to get hurt
in a default. Banks divide  debt capital  into tiers, depending on
the ability of the bonds to absorb losses, with Tier 2 debt
comprising more senior securities.  Average Returns  Monte Paschi’s six bonds included in the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch EMU Financial Corporate Index were the fourth-
worst performers in July, returning 0.22 percent compared with
an average 1.61 percent for the index as a whole. Investors
demand an extra 537 basis points in yield to hold the bank’s
securities, more than double the 244 basis-point spread for the
index, which contains securities from banks including ABN Amro
Bank NV and UBS AG.  The spread on Monte Paschi’s 800 million euros of 7.25
percent bonds due 2015 narrowed to 603 basis points over the
benchmark midswap rate, from a high of 775 on July 24, the week
the company announced it may be forced to merge, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. The bank ended its first half with 232
million euros of liabilities on its balance sheet, down from
241.5 million euros at the same point a year earlier, according
to its earnings statement.  Bonds Maturing  Monte Paschi has 5.37 billion euros of bonds maturing this
year, data compiled by Bloomberg  show , rising to 19.6 billion
euros in 2013. It’s  rated  BBB with a “stable” outlook by  Fitch
Ratings , while Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s 
grade it one level lower at Baa3 and BBB-, both with
“negative” outlooks.  “Significant pressure remains” on the lender’s
profitability, asset quality and funding, Fitch analysts led by
Christian Scarafia wrote in a June 29 report. Monte Paschi is
more affected by external conditions because of its need to
rebalance its funding “by de-leveraging during times of market
stress,” according to the report.  Fitch cut its rating on Monte Paschi’s junior Tier 1
securities by three levels to CCC from B+ and its upper Tier 2
instruments to B- from BB- to reflect increased non-performance
risk. “The receipt of government capital increases the risk of
the non-payment of the coupons,” the analysts wrote.  “The bank will be less friendly toward sub bondholders in
terms of call policy, and coupons that are non-mandatory may be
suspended,” said RBS’s Gallo.  Monte Paschi “has 5 billion euros of subordinated debt
available, which could create a substantial capital buffer to
withstand potential future losses in its 144 billion-euro loan
book,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in  London  at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  