-- Oosthuizen Takes 3-Shot Lead Into Final Round at Playoff Event
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-09-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/oosthuizen-opens-3-shot-lead-at-pga-tour-s-second-playoff-event.html
Louis Oosthuizen said he was
thinking about a record-tying score of 59 after opening the
third round of the U.S. PGA Tour’s Deutsche Bank Championship
with eight birdies in 10 holes.  The South African instead settled for an 8-under-par 63 and
a three-stroke lead over Rory McIlroy heading into today’s final
round of the second FedExCup playoff event outside Boston.  Tiger Woods  and  Dustin Johnson  are six shots behind Oosthuizen, who at
19-under broke the tournament’s 54-hole scoring record.  “After 10 holes being 8-under, you always think about
getting it to 59,” Oosthuizen, 29, said in a news conference
yesterday. “I didn’t do anything different from there on in. I
gave myself good chances to post that number.”  Oosthuizen, who won the 2010 British Open, had a score of
7-under-par 29 for the first nine holes yesterday at TPC Boston
in Norton, Massachusetts. He ran off seven birdies in a row from
the fourth hole and followed with six straight pars before
closing his round with a bogey at the 17th hole and a birdie at
the par-5 18th.  “You get those days where you just look at a putt and you
hole it,” said Oosthuizen, who once  carded a 57  in a non-
tournament round on his home course at  Mossel Bay , South Africa.
“That was my first nine holes. Still played well on the back
nine, put myself in good spots to make birdies, and just
couldn’t make any putts.”  McIlroy, who won this year’s  PGA Championship , followed up
consecutive rounds of 65 with a third-round 67 to get to 16-
under par. Woods shot a 3-under-par 68 for the second straight
day while Johnson carded a third-round 65.  Six Back  “I’m six back so I’m going to have to put together a
really good round,” Woods said in a televised interview. “You
have to get off to a quick start and at least get some momentum
going.”  Bryce Molder  and  Ryan Moore  are tied at 11-under par, with
 Charley Hoffman  and  Jason Dufner  each one shot further back.  After this week’s tournament, which includes the top 100
players in the FedExCup point  standings , the field will be
reduced to 70 for the BMW Championship at Crooked Stick Golf
Club in Carmel, Indiana, next week.  Following a one-week break, the top 30 players on the
points list will contend for the FedExCup title and the
champion’s $10 million bonus at the Tour Championship at East
Lake Golf Club in Atlanta.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  