-- U.K. Keeps Deficit Plan as Coalition Eyes Quicker Investment
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-09-03T11:47:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/osborne-says-u-k-government-getting-on-top-of-the-deficit-.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said his government will continue with its deficit-reduction
plans amid calls from opposition lawmakers for a rethink as the
economy struggles to exit a double-dip recession.  “We’ve cut the deficit by a quarter already, and we are
sticking to this course: rejecting the easy path; restoring
sanity to our finances,” Cameron wrote in an opinion column
published yesterday in the Mail on Sunday newspaper. “We’re on
a hard road to balancing Britain’s books” and “you cannot
borrow your way out of a debt crisis,” he said.  With Britain striving to climb out of its  second slump  in
three years, calls for the government to do more to spur the
economy have intensified as the largest  budget reductions  since
World War II and the euro-area debt crisis hurt demand.  While stopping short of saying he will fund new
infrastructure, Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said
yesterday that the government will announce proposals to
guarantee investment finance and is overhauling planning laws to
accelerate the approval of projects. Legislation will be put
forward this week, he said.  The plan is for the government to “use the low  interest
rates  we’ve earned by being tough on the deficit to help
underwrite construction projects, including housing,” Osborne
said in a television interview on the  BBC ’s “Andrew Marr
Show.” The government is doing “all these things to get the
economy moving, to make sure that the jobs we’re already
creating in this economy continue to be created,” he said.  ‘Controversial Projects’  “A lot of this is how you can make sure projects,
particularly those big, sometimes controversial projects, can go
through,” Cameron’s spokesman Steve Field told reporters in
 London  today. “We are looking at the financing of those
projects and the planning restrictions that might put a brake on
those projects happening.”  The  Campaign to Protect Rural England , a pressure group,
said the “green belt” of countryside around Britain’s cities
is “the envy of the world” which stops urban sprawl into rural
areas.  “In times of economic slowdown, politicians can sometimes
be tempted by the false promise of an easy construction boom,”
Paul Miner, senior planning officer for CPRE, said in a
statement on the group’s website. “But destroying the
countryside is not the path to lasting economic prosperity.
Sustainable economic improvement can only come from the sort of
urban regeneration that has already done much to rejuvenate many
of our largest cities.”  Borrowing Costs  The chancellor has resisted demands to ease the pace of his
fiscal squeeze, saying his plans have helped to insulate Britain
from debt turmoil emanating from the euro-area. Based on 10-year
government bond yields, the U.K. pays 1.64 percent to borrow
compared with 2.65 percent in October last year. The rates are
6.77 percent for  Spain  and 5.79 percent for  Italy .  The government said it will announce legislation this week
to guarantee as much as 40 billion pounds ($63.5 billion) of
infrastructure investment, as well as proposals for guarantees
worth up to 10 billion pounds to boost homebuilding.  Osborne also said officials are working on creating a
state-backed bank to lend to small businesses.  “The weakness in our banking system is one of the biggest
problems we’ve got,” he said. “We do need to actively consider
now, and actively work on as we are in the Treasury, a small
business bank sponsored by the government. Small businesses are
the innocent victims of the financial crash.”  ‘Unusually Uncertain’  The comments come after the  Confederation of British
Industry  and the British Chambers of Commerce last week both
urged the government to act to foster growth as they forecast
the economy will contract this year.  The  Bank of England  in August abandoned its forecast of
growth this year and said the outlook is “unusually uncertain”
after the economy shrank 0.5 percent in the three months through
June.  With tax receipts slowing in the face of the deteriorating
outlook, Osborne will miss the  Office for Budget
Responsibility ’s deficit-reduction forecasts until 2015,
according to the chambers of commerce.  Chuka Umunna, the opposition  Labour Party ’s head business
spokesman, said they would welcome a move by the government to
speed up infrastructure projects.  “We would give an immediate boost to the economy,” Umunna
told the BBC yesterday. “Unless you get people back into work,
you can’t reduce your borrowing figures.”  ‘No Alternative’  Osborne said yesterday that he would ask his critics to
support the government in making it easier to spur investment.  “We are getting on top of the deficit,” Osborne said.
“Britain’s economic problems are deep-rooted, built up over
many years. If there was a quick fix, or an easy road, I would
be the first on it. There is no alternative easy road.”  “There is no simple alternative,” U.K. Business Secretary
 Vince Cable , a member of the Liberal Democrats, the coalition’s
junior partner, said in an interview on BBC Radio 4 yesterday.
“The way we have approached this is to make sure the
government’s finances are in order so the Bank of  England  then
has confidence to give stimulus through monetary policy. We’ve
got to continue to work on that combination of things.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  