-- Poland Can Reduce Rates as Economy Slows, Belka Says
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   S a r a   E i s e n
-- 2012-09-03T12:18:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/poland-can-reduce-interest-rates-as-economy-slows-belka-says.html
Poland’s central bank, the only one
in the European Union to raise  interest rates  this year, has
scope to reduce borrowing costs if needed as the country’s
economy slows, Governor  Marek Belka  said.  “There is a room to reduce which, if necessary, I’m sure
we’ll utilize,” Belka told Bloomberg Television during a
weekend conference of central bankers and economists in  Jackson
Hole ,  Wyoming . “We feel the economy is slowing,” Belka said,
while adding fluctuations in the currency are not a concern and
its current value is “good for exports.”  The Narodowy Bank Polski unexpectedly raised its benchmark
seven-day rate by a quarter-point to 4.75 percent in May before
rejecting motions to cut in subsequent months. It will hold its
next meeting on Sept. 4-5 after Belka said last week that its
“policy bias” has changed and the prospects for cutting
borrowing costs have increased.  The zloty last week logged its biggest weekly slump this
year and 10-year bond yields rose on concern the slowest pace of
economic growth since 2009 shows  Poland ’s resistance to the euro
zone’s crisis is diminishing. The zloty traded at 4.1913 per
euro at 2 p.m. in Warsaw, after dropping to as low as 4.201
earlier in the day, down from 4.1693 on Aug. 31.  The government’s five-year bond yield fell 3 basis points
to 4.29 percent, near the record low of 4.28 percent on Aug. 3.
Forward-rate agreements have declined to 43 basis points below
the Warsaw interbank offered rate, signaling bets for almost two
quarter-point rate reductions over three months, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Slowing Growth  Poland’s economy expanded 2.4 percent in the three months
through June from a year earlier, the slowest pace in 11
quarters, Statistical Office data published on Aug. 30 showed.
The 17-nation euro area buys 54 percent of Polish exports.  Belka said Poland had witnessed increased investment from
 China  with the opening of two Chinese bank branches in Warsaw.
“This shows they see Poland as a handy place to invest in the
European Union,” he said.  Poland’s purchasing managers’ index, a gauge of
manufacturing, fell to 48.3 in August from 49.7 in July, HSBC
Holdings Plc said today in a statement posted on the website of
Markit Economics. A reading above 50 indicates expansion, while
a figure below 50 shows a contraction.  The figure was the second-lowest in 35 months and signaled
a fifth successive monthly deterioration in the business
climate, HSBC said. New orders have now declined every month
since February, while production of goods fell for a fourth
month and at the fastest pace in more than three years, with
backlogs declining at the second-fastest rate in 15 months,
according to the report.  The Belka-led 10-member Monetary Policy Council will keep
the benchmark rate unchanged, according to 24 of 25 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. One economist expects the rate will be
cut to 4.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  