-- Real Madrid, PSG Get First League Victories of Season; Juve Wins
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-09-02T23:38:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/real-madrid-psg-get-first-league-victories-of-season-juve-wins.html
Cristiano Ronaldo scored twice as
Real Madrid beat Granada 3-0 for its first win of the Spanish
league soccer season. Zlatan Ibrahimovic also got two goals as
Paris Saint-Germain logged its sole victory so far in France.  Portuguese forward Ronaldo, 27, scored either side of half
time last night to take his tally to 150 goals in 149 matches
since joining Real in 2009. Substitute Gonzalo Higuain completed
the scoring in the 76th minute.  “It’s not enough to just win, we have to play better than
we did,” Real coach  Jose Mourinho  said on his team’s website.
“The team has to work harder and have more intensity.”  Real, which began its title defense with a draw and a loss,
trails leader Barcelona by five points in the standings after
the Catalan club maintained its winning start to the season by
beating Valencia 1-0 on Adriano’s 22nd-minute strike.  Elsewhere yesterday,  Athletic Bilbao  beat Valladolid 2-0,
Levante defeated Espanyol 3-2, and Rayo Vallecano and Sevilla
drew 0-0.  In France, off-season signing Ibrahimovic struck twice in
the opening 21 minutes as PSG beat Lille 2-1 last night to claim
its sole win in four matches. Marseille tops Ligue 1 after
extending its 100 percent record with a 3-1 home victory against
Rennes.  Champion Montpellier beat Sochaux 3-1 two days ago to end
its three-match winless run at the start of the season.  Juventus Wins  Juventus, unbeaten in Italy’s Serie A last season, has two
wins from as many games this campaign after yesterday’s 4-1
victory at 10-man Udinese, which had goalkeeper Zeljko Brkic
red-carded after 12 minutes.  Sebastian Giovinco got two goals, while  Arturo Vidal  and
Mirko Vucinic also scored for Juve.  Lazio and Napoli had home wins against Palermo and
Fiorentina, respectively, to secure their second straight
victories, while Roma won 3-1 at  Inter Milan . Giampaolo Pazzini
had a hat trick in AC Milan’s 3-1 win at Bologna two days ago.  Bayern Munich  and Eintracht Frankfurt are the only teams
with maximum points through two games in Germany’s Bundesliga.  Bayern routed Stuttgart 6-1 yesterday, with  Thomas Mueller 
scoring twice. Eintracht Frankfurt won 4-0 at Hoffenheim two
days ago.  Wolfsburg could have joined both teams at the top with a
win yesterday, though slipped to a 4-0 home defeat to Hanover.  FC Twente  maintained its winning start in Dutch soccer’s
Eredivisie with a 1-0 victory against VVV Venlo yesterday,
second-place  Vitesse Arnhem  beat Feyenoord 1-0, while  PSV
Eindhoven  routed  AZ Alkmaar  5-1. Defending champion Ajax tied 2-
2 at Heerenveen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 