-- Serbia Borrowing Costs May Rise More, Analysts Say
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-09-02T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/serbia-borrowing-costs-may-rise-more-hsbc-nomura-analysts-say.html
Serb borrowing costs, the highest in
two weeks, may rise more should the  International Monetary Fund 
continue to put a $1.3 billion lending program on hold, analysts
at HSBC and Nomura said.  The yield on Serbia’s benchmark 2021 dollar bond has risen
to 7.10 percent on Aug. 31 from 6.45 percent before May 6
general elections, lifting the premium over  U.S. Treasuries  to
583 basis points from 493, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co’s
EMBIG index. The dinar has lost 5.5 percent against the euro in
the same period, reaching its weakest on record on Aug. 10.  IMF officials are scheduled to meet Cabinet and central
bank members beginning in mid-September to discuss a change in
the central bank law that imposes parliamentary controls over
the institution and measure progress on a pledge to cut debt and
spending. Since elections that brought Ivica Dacic, a former
ally of  Slobodan Milosevic , who led the Balkan wars in the
1990s, to power, the dinar has been the fourth-worst performing
currency of the 178 traced by Bloomberg worldwide.  Investors will be “monitoring closely the fiscal
consolidation plans and whether they get the IMF’s stamp of
approval,” said  Agata Urbanska , and emerging-market economist
at London-based HSBC Holdings Plc. “Otherwise, they will want
to be paid for higher risk.”  Program Freeze  The IMF, which joined the  World Bank  and the European Union
in criticizing the central bank amendment, has already frozen
its lending program because of fiscal concerns and may withhold
additional support and backing for its policies, forcing the
government to look elsewhere for financing.  The government is considering a new Eurobond issue and is
searching for as much as 2 billion euros ($2.5 billion) of
“non-market” funding to pay public wages, pensions and welfare
and repay creditors, he said on Aug. 8.  Jorgovanka Tabakovic, the vice president of the ruling
Progressive Party, was appointed as the bank’s new governor on
Aug. 6, after her predecessor quit in protest to the law change.  The IMF mission that will arrive in mid-September will also
discuss fiscal slippages and will want to see Dacic’s deficit-
cutting plans, it said on Aug. 24. The IMF won’t specifically
discuss the suspended program, it said.  “The softening of the backstop in this way is very
worrying, even if  Serbia  did not need to draw on funds,” Peter Attard Montalto, an emerging-market strategist at the London-
based Nomura International Ltd. said in an Aug. 24 e-mail.
Serbia will find it difficult to borrow, he said.  Sovereign Spread  Serbia’s sovereign spread, according to  JP Morgan Chase &
Co’s EMBIG index , stood at 576 basis points on Aug. 24, compared
with 490 basis points in early May before general elections.
 Romania ’s sovereign spread was 416.76 basis points.  The 10-year Eurobond yield rose to 7.026 percent on Aug. 24
from 6.908 percent on Aug. 1 when the ruling parties announced
the plan to change the central bank law.  “All we have seen so far is a lack of buyers and hence
Serbia externals have seen no rally in the same way others in
the region have done,” Montalto said. “I don’t think they
could issue here at all, really.”  Serbia’s economy is in its second recession in three years
and it is forecast to contract by as much as 1 percent this
year, according to the central bank. The fiscal gap expanded to
7.2 percent of gross domestic product, compared with a planned
4.25 percent, while the public debt reached 54.7 percent at the
end of June exceeding a fiscal rule limit at 45 percent of GDP.  Inflation Pickup  Inflation is estimated to accelerate to 10 percent as the
government raises taxes and increases regulated prices by the
end of 2012, according to the central bank.  The current-account deficit widened to 14 percent of GDP at
the end of June amid capital flight, turning the dinar into
 Europe ’s worst performing currency of 174 currency worldwide
tracked by Bloomberg.  Standard & Poor’s  cut Serbia’s credit rating to BB- from BB
on Aug. 7 and  Fitch Ratings  revised its outlook to negative on
Aug. 16.  Serbia has kept the Eurobond plan open as Finance Minister
 Mladjan Dinkic  seeks to reduce borrowing at home, where the
government pays as much as 15 percent a year for dinar-
denominated debt.  The government needs to repay 53.5 billion dinars ($570.68
million) worth of Treasury bills that mature in September and
October of a total of 85.4 billion dinars maturing by the end of
December, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Dinkic is preparing a supplementary 2012 budget and invited
the IMF “to play a role” in drafting the 2013 budget.  “I think the political interference with the central bank
is a shocking own goal,” Gabriel Sterne, senior economist at
the London-based Exotix Ltd., said in an Aug. 21 e-mail. “It’s
a significant backward step that politically-based changes were
forced, I moved Serbia to a Sell as a result. Serbia has much to
do to rebuild credibility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  