-- Slovenia Should Focus on Fixing Banks Before Bailout Plea
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-09-02T09:51:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/slovenia-should-focus-on-fixing-banks-before-bailout-plea.html
Slovenia should work on fixing its
banks and overhauling the pension system and labor market before
requesting aid, said  Angel Gurria , the secretary general of the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  “Why don’t we spend some time trying to go for the pension
reform in Slovenia, labor market reform, the banking reform, the
budget adjustment process, the state-owned enterprise changes,”
Gurria told reporters on the sidelines of a business forum in
the Alpine resort of Bled, Slovenia today. When these changes
are passed “and the markets are still attacking, then I would
say, yes let’s ask the family to help. Are we there yet?
Certainly not,” he said.  Slovenia may be on course to become the sixth euro-region
member to ask for international assistance for its banking
industry, which is relying on European Central Bank loans for
liquidity. The export-oriented economy shrank an annual 3.2
percent in the second quarter, adding to concern the government
of Prime Minister  Janez Jansa  will struggle to lower the budget
gap, which swelled to 6.4 percent of total output last year.  Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings downgraded the former Yugoslav nation last month as the
need for additional capital at state-owned lenders such as Nova
Ljubljanska Banka d.d. is likely to further burden state
finances. All three rating companies kept a negative outlook on
the sovereign.  Slovenia’s borrowing costs surged to over 7 percent last
month, a level that forced Ireland and  Portugal  to ask for a
bailout.  The government in the capital Ljubljana has repeatedly said
it will not ask for aid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  