-- South Africa Drops Murder Charges Against Lonmin Miners
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-09-02T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/south-africa-drops-murder-charges-against-lonmin-miners.html
South African prosecutors dropped
murder charges against 270 striking miners after being
criticized for using an apartheid-era law to hold them liable
for the deaths of 34 fellow workers shot by police.  The mineworkers will be released from prison and the case
postponed until a judicial commission of inquiry completes its
work, Acting National Director of Prosecutions Nomgcobo Jiba
told reporters in  Pretoria  yesterday. The murder charges may be
reinstated following the investigation, she said.  South African Justice Minister  Jeff Radebe  said on Aug. 31
the decision by the  National Prosecuting Authority  to pursue
murder charges against the strikers had caused “shock, panic
and confusion.” Police killed the workers at  Lonmin Plc (LON) ’s
platinum mine in Marikana, in North West province, on Aug. 16 as
they tried to disperse them following a six-day standoff.
Prosecutors charged the strikers last week with murder under the
“common purpose” law, which the white minority government had
used in the past to crack down on anti-apartheid protesters.  “The protesters are to be released conditionally on
warning and their case postponed pending the finalization of
investigations including the investigations by the commission,”
Jiba said. “The decision to institute murder charges against
the miners is based on a sound legal principle which has not
only been part of our legal system for decades, but continues to
remain relevant and applicable in our democratic dispensation.”  Apartheid Law  In addition to murder, the miners had faced charges of
attempted murder, public violence, illegal gathering, possession
of dangerous weapons and possession of firearms and ammunition,
the NPA said on Aug. 31. The NPA’s head of North West province,
Johan Smit, had personally approved the charges, the authority
said.  Toward the end of white minority rule in 1994 and under
increased internal and external pressure from opponents, the
state relied more on the provisions of the Riotous Assembly Act
of 1956 as well as the common purpose doctrine in an attempt to
criminalize the actions of all people involved in protest
action, according to Pierre De Vos, a law professor at the
University of  Cape Town . The law was never struck off the
statute books after democracy in 1994, unlike many similar
apartheid laws, he said on a  weblog  on Aug. 30.  Prosecutors have in “many cases” used the principle of
holding suspects liable for murder if their actions resulted in
the deaths of others, Jiba said.  Judicial Inquiry  “Where a group of armed robbers meet resistance and a
violent confrontation ensues during which one of the robbers or
bystanders is killed by either police or co-robbers, the co-
robbers may be charged with the murder of the co-robber or
bystander,” Jiba said.  President  Jacob Zuma  has set up a judicial commission of
inquiry to probe the shootings, the deadliest police action
since the end of apartheid. Police said they acted in self-
defense after being shot at from the crowd of about 3,000
strikers as they were being dispersed.  Zuma won’t intervene to release the miners, his office said
in an e-mailed statement on Sept. 1. Jiba said she hasn’t been
in contact with Zuma’s office regarding the case.  The Lonmin mine remains closed with talks between
management and workers due to resume this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  