-- Sun Myung Moon, Church Head Who Ran Business Empire, Dies
-- B y   M a r k   S c h o i f e t
-- 2012-09-03T01:04:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/sun-myung-moon-church-head-who-ran-business-empire-dead-at-92.html
Sun Myung Moon, the Korean-born
founder of the Unification Church and self-proclaimed messiah
who built a secretive global business empire that sells cars,
guns, newspapers and sushi, has died. He was 92.  Moon died in the early hours of this morning at a church-
owned hospital in Gapyeong County, northeast of  Seoul , the
church said in an e-mailed statement. On Aug. 14, he had entered
the intensive-care unit of St. Mary’s Hospital in Seoul with
complications from a cold and pneumonia.  To thousands of followers,  Moon  was the benevolent “True
Father” who was asked by Jesus to complete his unfinished
mission on Earth. To detractors, he was a megalomaniacal cult
leader who exploited disciples though brainwashing, separated
them from their families and used their labor to amass a
personal fortune.  “I don’t think there will be any individual who will take
his place,” said  Frederick Sontag , a former professor of
religion at Pomona College in  California  who studied Moon’s
organization, in a 2007 interview. “He is too powerful a
figure.”  Moon arrived in the U.S. from South  Korea  in 1971 and
gained attention when he came to the defense of President
 Richard Nixon  during the Watergate crisis two years later. A
staunch anti-Communist who had been imprisoned in  North Korea ,
he organized “God Loves Richard Nixon” rallies on  Capitol Hill 
and met with the president in the White House.  He built his U.S. following by touring the country and
delivering fiery speeches translated from Korean into English.
He deployed eager young acolytes to street corners, where they
sold flowers and candles and became known as Moonies.  Mass Wedding  “How does a preacher with murky credentials draw a crowd
in jaded  New York City ?”  Time magazine  asked in September 1974
after 25,000 of Moon’s followers packed Madison Square Garden.
“Simple. You field a corps of 2,000 tireless, polite young
buttonholers who spend weeks offering people free tickets.
Invest $300,000 on publicity for the one-night stand -- far more
than Billy Graham has ever spent for an eight-day crusade.”  Madison Square Garden was also the site of one of Moon’s
most famous undertakings, a mass wedding of 2,075 couples in
1982.  Moon faced widespread criticism for his aggressive
recruitment practices. Former Unification Church members said
they were lied to -- a church-approved practice known as
heavenly deception -- deprived of sleep and beaten by church
followers. Many turned over their savings to Moon’s organization.  Tax Evasion  The U.S. government also took aim at the preacher. In 1978,
a congressional committee found evidence of Moon’s ties to
Korean intelligence agencies and concluded that his organization
“systematically violated U.S. tax, immigration, banking,
currency and  Foreign Agents Registration Act  laws.”  He was convicted in May 1982 of failing to report $162,000
in income on his tax returns and served 13 months in the medium-
security federal prison in Danbury,  Connecticut , and a halfway
house. Moon claimed that the prosecution was political
retribution for his earlier support of the unpopular Nixon.  Moon had problems in other countries as well. He was banned
from entering the UK from 1995 until 2005 on the grounds that
his presence wouldn’t be “conducive to the common good for
reasons of public order.”  The evangelist was also labeled a bigot. He referred to
homosexuals as “dirty, dung-eating dogs” and said Jews were to
blame for the Holocaust because they betrayed Jesus by handing
him over to the Romans. He claimed to have personally helped the
spirits of Hitler and Stalin become “reborn as new persons.”  Worldwide Following  The number of Moon’s followers was the subject of
conjecture throughout his life. In the 1970s, the church said it
had 600,000 adherents worldwide, including 300,000 in  South
Korea , 200,000 in  Japan  and 30,000 in the U.S. The church’s
official worldwide membership in 1981 rose to 3 million, a
figure most experts dismissed. In 1999, the  New York  Times
estimated the number of Moon’s followers in the U.S. at about
3,000.  Through a web of companies, foundations and non-profit
organizations, Moon had controlled the  Washington Times 
newspaper; the United Press International wire service;
Washington-based Atlantic Video, one of the biggest independent
broadcasting facilities in the U.S.; the Hotel New Yorker in
 Manhattan  and the University of Bridgeport in Connecticut.  An avid fisherman, he ran a lobster operation in Gloucester,
 Massachusetts , and owned  True World Foods , a Chicago-based
company that, according to a 2006 Chicago Tribune investigation,
supplied raw seafood to more than 75 percent of the nation’s
9,000 sushi restaurants.  Tongil Group  In South Korea, through his Seoul-based  Tongil Group , he
owned drugmaker Ilhwa Co., which in turn owned the Seongnam
Ilhwa Chunma soccer team; marble and granite slab supplier
 Ilshin Stone Co. (007110) ; Yongpyong Resort featuring a golf course,
water park, ski slope and deer farm; and the Seil Travel agency;
the Korean-language daily newspaper Segye Times; and Pyeonghwa
Motors, which opened North Korea’s first car-assembly plant in
2002.  Moon remained politically connected through ownership of
the Washington Times, which he established to counter what he
saw as the liberal bias of the Washington Post.  He caused a stir in 2004 over a ceremony in the Dirksen
Senate Office Building attended by several members of Congress
in which he declared himself the messiah. One congressman, Danny K. Davis, wore white gloves and carried a pillow containing two
crowns that were placed on the heads of Moon and his wife, Hak
Ja Han. After the event was reported, some lawmakers said they
had been unaware the ceremony was connected to Moon.  Name Change  Church membership waned in the 1990s as more young people
turned to evangelical Christianity, Sontag said. Moon played
down the name Unification Church, opting to use the Universal
Peace Federation as the flagship for his global empire. In 1996
he officially changed the name of the church to the  Family
Federation for World Peace and Unification.   Moon Yong Myung was born on Jan. 6, 1920, into a family of
farmers in what now is North Korea, according to an official
 biography . He would change his name to Sun Myung Moon upon
reaching adulthood. As a boy, he studied at a Confucian school.
His parents converted to Christianity when he was about 10, and
he was raised as a Presbyterian.  On Easter morning in 1935, according to Moon, he was
praying in the Korean mountains when Jesus appeared and asked
him to “complete the task of establishing God’s kingdom on
Earth and bringing peace to humankind.” Moon would spend the
next 10 years studying and praying before he developed his own
theology.  War Years  In 1941, Moon graduated from high school and moved to Japan,
which occupied Korea at that time, to study electrical
engineering. That same year Japan attacked Pearl Harbor, drawing
the U.S. into World War II.  Moon joined the movement for Korean independence, working
with fellow Christians and communists. He was eventually
imprisoned by the Japanese for his activities.  In 1943, Moon returned to Korea and married Choi Sang Il, a
Presbyterian. He was arrested by the occupation government in
1944 for his role in the anti-Japanese underground. He refused
to confess and was released.  By 1945 Moon had developed the core of his theology. Called
the  Divine Principle , it held that Jesus failed to restore human
beings to their intended position as God’s “perfect children”
because he was crucified before he could marry and have children.  ‘True Parents’  Moon preached that Eve had sex with the devil in the Garden
of Eden. Jesus, according to Unification Church teachings, was
supposed to be the second Adam who would create a perfect family.
When Jesus died before marrying, he redeemed mankind spiritually
but not physically. That task would be left to the “True
Parents” -- Moon and his wife -- who would link married couples
and their families to God through them.  After World War II and the division of the Korean peninsula,
Moon continued to preach. Charged with disturbing the social
order, he was imprisoned by the Communist authorities that
controlled the northern portion, tortured, thrown out of the
prison and left to die before he was rescued by some of his
followers. He was arrested again in 1948 and sentenced to five
years of hard labor in prison.  Moon was freed by the United Nations forces that entered
North Korea in July 1950, only hours before he was to be
executed, according to the church. He moved to South Korea to
resume evangelical work, and his wife filed for divorce.  Suspected Orgies  On May 1, 1954, Moon founded the Holy Spirit Association
for the Unification of World Christianity, which came to be
known as the Unification Church. According to the church’s
 official history , Moon was jailed several times by South Korean
authorities under suspicion that he was a North Korean agent and
was running sex orgies.  He married his second wife, Han Hak Ja, a member of the
church, in March 1960. Known to followers as the “True
Mother,” she gave birth to 14 children, including a daughter
who died in infancy. One son, Heung Jin, died in a 1984 car
crash at age 17. Another son, Young Jin, died in 1999 of an
apparent suicide and a third, Hyo Jin, died in 2008 from a heart
attack.  Moon embarked on his first world tour in 1965, visiting 40
countries. Three years later, he founded the International
Federation for Victory Over Communism, the first of several such
groups he created during the  Cold War .  He kicked off his first U.S. tour at Alice Tully Hall in
New York’s  Lincoln Center  in February 1972.  Church Camps  As Moon’s popularity grew, anti-Moon organizations began
forming around the country. Defectors told tales of non-stop
indoctrination at church-run camps, including yelling and
physical abuse by instructors. Recruits weren’t allowed time
alone; someone even accompanied them to the bathroom.  They were told they could voluntarily leave the next day.
When that day came, they were told the buses weren’t running
until the following day. Before long, they were praying to
portraits of Moon and his wife.  Not all of the coercion was hostile. Moon’s followers
employed a technique known as “love bombing,” in which new
recruits were showered with affection, often from members of the
opposite sex.  The church conceded that converts underwent dramatic
changes but denied using nefarious methods.  In 1976, Moon held a  rally  at Yankee Stadium in the Bronx
commemorating the U.S. bicentennial. He predicted an overflow
crowd of 200,000, perhaps as many as 1 million. About 27,000
people attended.  Shifting Focus  Concern about Moon’s organization increased after November
1978, when more than 900 followers of the Reverend Jim Jones,
the leader of the Peoples Temple cult in Guyana, died after
drinking cyanide-laced fruit punch.  The controversy over Moon’s practices died down after the
1980s as membership waned and he focused on his business
interests outside the U.S., such as a newspaper in  Argentina  and
an estimated 1.7 million acres of real estate in Brazil and
Paraguay. He built a compound in Uruguay.  He grew increasingly disillusioned with the U.S., calling
it “a Hell on Earth” that was “heading for destruction.”  In later years, he focused on one of his pet projects: a
proposal to build a $200 billion tunnel under the Bering Strait
to connect  North America  with  Asia . He also was a proponent of
Korean unification, traveling to North Korea in 1992 to meet the
aging leader  Kim Il Sung . The Seoul government accused him of
“causing a split in national opinion.”  Potential Successors  Moon’s successor is in doubt. In 1992, he elevated his wife
to his level “horizontally,” though some members questioned
whether she can maintain the church and its businesses. A son,
Kook Jin, a Harvard graduate known as Justin Moon, who runs Kahr
Arms, a U.S. gunmaker, has been cited as a potential successor.  Sontag, the religion professor who died in 2009, once met
with Moon and asked him who would run his organization when he’s
gone.  “I will continue to lead the church from the spirit
world,” Moon replied.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Schoifet in New York at 
 mschoifet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  