-- Swedes Enraged as Taxes Pay Dolphin PR Parties
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n   a n d   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-09-02T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/swedes-enraged-as-taxes-pay-dolphin-pr-parties.html
Swedish government employees are
being treated to wine tastings, communication courses with
dolphins and a James Bond-theme party, all at the taxpayer’s
expense.  The revelations, published in local media, have provoked a
backlash from voters, who have punished the party seen
responsible for failing to monitor the extravagances with poll
ratings that would kick them out of parliament and undermine the
coalition that Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt  needs to stay in
power.  “There’s no respect for the fact that this involves other
people’s money -- taxpayers’ money,” said Torsten Svenonius,
spokesman for Skattebetalarna, a group of more than 100,000
members advocating tax cuts and more oversight. “This isn’t
even the tip of the iceberg -- it’s just a snow flake. This
really involves hundreds of billions of kronor.”  For Swedes, who bear the world’s highest tax burden after
the Danes, the scandals have shaken confidence in the
government. The excessive spending, with the James Bond-themed
party thrown by the secret police alone costing 4.3 million
kronor ($647,000), comes as voters across  Europe  are called on
to endure cuts needed to rein in budgets.  Bearing the brunt of the dissatisfaction is Annie Loof,
Center Party leader and enterprise minister, who is responsible
for many of the agencies said to have thrown lavish parties.
Support for her party has slumped to 3.8 percent from 6.6
percent in the 2010 election, according to a Novus Opinion and
TV4 poll published Aug. 29. That’s below the 4 percent needed to
be in parliament. The government has 42.8 percent backing,
versus 50.1 percent for the opposition, according to the poll.
The next election is in 2014.  Leader Crisis  The Center Party is “in a way fighting for their life,”
said Jonas Hinnfors, a political science professor at  Gothenburg
University . “It would be a very difficult situation if there’s
a party leader crisis.”  Examples of taxpayer-funded spending that have provoked
censure in local media include an event organized by Loof’s
ministry costing 10,000 kronor to visit the dolphins at the
Kolmaarden safari park in  Sweden  in order to learn how to
communicate and give feedback. Loof wasn’t available to comment,
said her spokeswoman Anna-Karin Nyman. The Center Party was also
found to have incorrectly billed taxpayers for a dinner party.  In a webcast interview with newspaper Expressen, Loof said
she understood people’s “frustration and anger.”  Knowledge, Inspiration  Loof on Aug. 6 fired the head of the Swedish Agency for
Economic and Regional Growth after it was revealed the authority
had splurged 780,000 kronor on a party at Stockholm’s Grand
Hotel. The May 23 event cost 2,690 kronor per staff member,
which the agency now says “was too expensive and took place in
the wrong place.”  Reinfeldt told  news agency  TT on Aug. 28 that independent
agency heads have responsibility for their own budgets and need
to use better judgment in how they spend taxpayers’ money.  The James Bond party held by Sweden’s Security Service in
June 2011 was intended to “give knowledge, inspiration and
solidarity at the end of a big reorganization of the authority
and also followed a very work-intensive year for employees,”
Anders Thornberg, who heads the security police, said in a
 statement  on its website. “I understand that the cost of 4.3
million kronor, as a lump sum and taken out of context, can seem
very ample and it’s of course a lot of money.”  Vinnova, Sweden’s Innovation Agency, said Aug. 1 it will
tighten its standards after treating employees to wine tastings
and overstepping spending rules on drinks at dinners.  Fiscal Discipline  The scandals contrast with the goals of fiscal discipline
upheld by Reinfeldt and his Finance Minister  Anders Borg , both
members of the Moderate Party. After keeping the Swedish budget
largely balanced through the financial crisis, Borg on Aug. 24
announced that the government will be able to boost spending by
as much 50 billion kronor over the next two years to stimulate
growth in the largest Nordic economy.  The Swedish National Audit Office said it’s increasing its
focus to monitor areas where the risk of damaging taxpayers’
trust is high, such as internal representation.  A lack “of management of tax funds risks damaging faith in
individual authorities but also faith in the entire operations
of the state,” the agency said in an Aug. 16  statement .  “While in Sweden policies have led us to largely managing
the economy well, there’s still a lot of money to be fetched by
looking over the costs,” Svenonius at Skattebetalarna said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net ;
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net ; 