-- Synairgen in Drug Partnership Talks After Study Results
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-09-03T16:06:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/synairgen-in-drug-partnership-talks-after-asthma-study-results.html
Synairgen Plc (SNG)  is in talks with
potential partners following the results of a study of an
experimental medicine targeting infections that trigger asthma
attacks, Chief Executive Officer Richard Marsden said.  Synairgen is speaking with larger drugmakers that will help
the company with regulatory filings and marketing the product,
SNG001, Marsden said in an interview at the  European Respiratory
Society ’s annual meeting in Vienna yesterday.  In a mid-stage study of 134 adults who caught a cold,
SNG001 was effective in the most difficult-to-treat patients,
preventing asthma symptoms from getting worse during the first
week of infection and treatment. There was also a 65 percent
reduction in the number of patients who experienced asthma
attacks during the treatment period compared with a group on
placebo, the company said.  The results are “critical to the partnership
discussions,” Marsden said. “This is the patient group most in
need of new approaches and is an area of great interest for the
large biotech and pharma companies that we are talking to.”  Synairgen  rose  6 percent, the biggest gain in two months,
to 44 pence at the close of trading in  London . That gave the
Southampton, England-based company a market value of 33.1
million pounds ($52.6 million).  Targeting Infections  SNG001 is a beta interferon treatment that works by
targeting virus infections, which trigger 80 percent of asthma
attacks. The drug is aimed at the 10 percent to 20 percent of
patients infected by a virus who don’t respond to the maximum
doses of approved asthma treatments. Beta interferon is well-
established in treating multiple sclerosis, which makes the
development of SNG001 less risky, Marsden said.  “They are thinking about asthma in a different way,” said
Daniel Mahony, a health-care fund manager at Polar Capital LLP
in London, which holds 2 percent of Synairgen’s outstanding
shares. “They’re addressing the cause of the disease and not
the effects. All the big boys in asthma should be looking at
this.”  Synairgen is also studying SNG001 for chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease, or smoker’s cough, and is preparing to
approach the U.S. Department of Defense and  National Institutes
of Health  to help develop the drug for use in combating
potential bio-terrorism attacks, Marsden said.  Sales of the medicine could reach “billions” of dollars
for each of the asthma and smoker’s cough indications, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  