-- Syrian Army Hits Aleppo as Car Bomb Explodes Near Damascus
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2012-09-03T21:24:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/syrian-forces-kill-144-some-execution-style-opposition-says.html
Syrian warplanes bombarded targets
in the city of Aleppo and surrounding regions, as a car-bomb
exploded in Jaramana near the capital, Damascus.  Syrian government forces killed 235 people across the
country today with 62 of those dead in Aleppo. Most were killed
when al-Bab town and other neighborhoods came under aerial
attack. A total of 57 were in Daraa, including 43 found in a
mass grave in al-Hirak town and 36 in and around the capital,
Damascus, the opposition Local Coordination Committees said in
an e-mailed statement.  Al-Bab in Aleppo province came under aerial attack and
several neighborhoods inside Aleppo city were also targeted, the
U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights  said in an e-
mailed statement today. The group reported five people killed
and at least 27 injured by the Jaramana bomb, and said there was
fighting in the mountains near Latakia.  Syrian security forces killed 16 people execution-style in
Damascus neighborhood of Qabun, al-Jazeera reported, citing
activists. Syrian troops loyal to President Bashar al-Assad
stormed the village of Faraya in Hama and killed 21 people, most
of them with knives, the Local Coordination Committees said in a
statement.  The battle for control of Aleppo,  Syria ’s biggest city, and
Damascus intensified last month as United Nations monitors
pulled out of the country after failing to implement a cease-
fire negotiated by envoy  Kofi Annan .  Syria will cooperate with Annan’s successor, Lakhdar Brahimi, Information Minister Omran al-Zoubi told state
television today. The success of Brahimi’s effort to find a
political solution will depend on Qatar,  Saudi Arabia ,  Turkey 
and the U.S., he said. All those countries have backed the
opposition fighting to remove President Bashar al-Assad.  More than 23,000 people have died since the uprising
against Assad began in March 2011, according to the Observatory.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glen Carey in  Riyadh  at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  