-- U.S. Steel Reaches Tentative Labor Deal for 66% of Workforce
-- B y   T h e o   M u l l e n   a n d   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2012-09-02T22:38:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/u-s-steel-reaches-tentative-labor-deal-for-66-of-workforce-1-.html
U.S. Steel Corp. reached a tentative
three-year contract with the United Steelworkers union for about
two-thirds of its workforce.  The accord would cover 16,000 employees at flat-rolled and
iron-ore mining facilities as well as tubular operations in
Lorain,  Ohio , and Fairfield,  Alabama , the company said in a
statement. The proposal remains subject to ratification.  “This agreement is in the best interests of our company,
our employees and all of our stakeholders,” Chief Executive
Officer John Surma said in the statement.  The Pittsburgh-based
company had about  24,000 workers  at the end of last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. Steel, the country’s largest producer of the metal by
volume, negotiated the agreement amid sluggish demand, with
sales dropping 2 percent to  $5.02 billion  in the three months
through June.  A union spokesman, R.J. Hufnagel, declined to provide
details on the contract before it’s reviewed and voted on by
members. The previous accord was set to expire yesterday, and
Surma told analysts in late July that the company expected to
reach a “competitive agreement.”  One of the key points in negotiations was increasing
retiree health-care costs, the union said in a separate
statement.  “Both sides worked hard to come up with a solution that
continues to provide our current and future retirees with access
to high-quality, low-cost medical care,” said Steelworkers
International Vice President Tom Conway, the lead negotiator.  Separately, the union is “exchanging proposals” with
 ArcelorMittal (MT)  USA on behalf of nearly 14,000 workers at 15 U.S.
locations, said USW International President Leo W. Gerard.  USW union members are working under terms of the group’s
2008 contract, Gerard said. USW members will continue to operate
ArcelorMittal while negotiations continue, the union said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theo Mullen in  New York  at 
 tmullen11@bloomberg.net ;
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  