-- Lufthansa Attendants to Resume Strike Tuesday, Union Says
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-09-02T19:08:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/lufthansa-attendants-to-resume-strike-tuesday-union-says.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  flight
attendants will stop work Sept. 4, expanding the length and
locations of an eight-hour walkout Aug. 31 over a 13-month wage
dispute at Europe’s second-biggest airline.  Details of the cabin crew’s actions will be provided at
least six hours in advance of the strike, the Unabhaengige
Flugbegleiter Organisation union said in an e-mailed statement
today. The UFO, which says it represents about 19,400 flight
attendants in the contract talks, didn’t say how many flight
attendants would go on strike.  “Since Lufthansa provided no signal to the UFO after the
strike at Frankfurt airport, the labor dispute continues,” the
union said in its statement.  Lufthansa canceled at least 207 flights Aug. 31, primarily
within  Europe , as well as services to and from some U.S. cities,
 Tel Aviv  and Chennai,  India , according to Lufthansa’s website.  The dispute centers on pay increases and whether separate
wage scales apply to some groups of  flight attendants  as
Cologne, Germany-based Lufthansa implements a 1.5 billion-euro
($1.9 billion) savings program dubbed Score.  The company has already announced plans to scrap as many as
4,500 jobs in administration and catering to reduce its 120,000-
employee global workforce. Contract talks between UFO and
Lufthansa collapsed on Aug. 28. The union has outlined plans for
short-term strikes initially, with unlimited walkouts possible
later.  Extended Walkout  Extending the walkout across  Germany  would set Lufthansa
back 12 million euros a day, Peter Oppitzhauser, a Zurich-based
Credit Agricole analyst, has estimated. That would amount to 2
percent of full-year analysts’ consensus predictions for
operating profit, according to Oppitzhauser.  UFO wants a 5 percent raise on a one-year contract
backdated to April 1, and contends that Lufthansa’s most recent
pay proposal amounts to a 1.5 percent annual increase that would
erode wages by 1,300 euros a month after inflation. Lufthansa
said on Aug. 28 that its raise totals 3.5 percent over time, and
all flight attendants would get higher pay.  The union also opposes Lufthansa’s demand that flight
attendants assigned to Berlin, where the airline is expanding,
work 9 percent more hours than employees elsewhere for the same
wages, and has objected to the use of temporary workers there.
In addition, the parties have been unable to agree on whether to
protect employees after 2013 from being transferred to low-cost
divisions under cheaper pay contracts, according to UFO.  Frankfurt was Europe’s third-busiest airport in the 12
months through May, trailing only London and Paris, according to
trade group  Airports Council International . Among carriers in
the region, Lufthansa ranks second to Paris-based  Air France-KLM
Group (AF)  in terms of traffic, or the number of passengers
multiplied by the distance flown.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  