-- Unglamorous but Effective Ways to Create More Jobs
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-02T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/unglamorous-but-effective-ways-to-create-more-jobs-view.html
We keep hearing that the  U.S.
presidential election  is all about jobs. So why aren’t we
getting more concrete ideas from the candidates about how to
create more of them?  That’s a trick question; we know there are no easy answers.
Declaring that you will produce 12 million jobs in your first
term by lowering taxes, boosting domestic energy production and
cutting  government spending , as Republican nominee  Mitt Romney 
 does , isn’t convincing. Nor is President  Barack Obama ’s promise
to lower unemployment by taxing the rich and spending more on
education, public works and manufacturing.  The U.S.’s 8.3 percent  unemployment  rate requires more
short-term, down-to-earth ideas than either candidate’s long-
term agenda is serving up. So on the day we celebrate the
American worker, it’s worth noting some success stories from the
annals of  job creation . The best examples come from the
persistent efforts of local, state and regional groups --
economic development agencies, community colleges, Chambers of
Commerce, nonprofit groups, local business leaders, elected
officials in both parties -- managing their local and regional
economies as a team.  Successful Ideas  The to-do list of the most successful collaborations
includes fostering a pro-business environment in which licenses,
permits and red tape are kept to a minimum, and basic services
such as broadband communication and efficient transportation are
readily available. The best coalitions make sure training
programs offer workers the right skills for the local job
market. And these groups work hard to diversify their local
economies to avoid overdependence on a single employer or
industry.  One of the best examples of the collaborative approach
comes from the campaign battleground of Ohio. The state lost
282,000 jobs in the 2007-2009 recession. Today, Ohio’s
unemployment  rate  is 7.2 percent, 1.1 percentage points below
the national figure. It’s all the more impressive considering
that Ohio was devastated by the housing bust, the near-collapse
of the U.S.  auto industry  and the offshoring of manufacturing to
cheaper locales in  Asia .  As the presidential campaign intensifies, Obama will try to
claim credit for Ohio’s comeback, as will the state’s Republican
governor,  John Kasich . In truth, they both deserve some credit -
- but not all or even most of it. Obama’s contribution was
bailing out the auto industry, which employed 35,000 Ohioans in
2002. Today, that’s down to about 20,000, after hitting a low of
14,000 in January 2009, before Obama took office.  But more has gone right in Ohio than the auto industry’s
revival. Kasich’s two predecessors, one a Democrat and one a
Republican, got the ball rolling with a program called  Third
Frontier , a 10-year-old economic development plan that
encourages advanced technology companies, suppliers, service
providers and academic institutions to work together to attract
more employers to the area. The state now has 20 clusters
devoted to industries such as flexible electronics and energy:
hybrid cars, fuel cells, smart office buildings, and wind, solar
and nuclear power.  Third Frontier provides research and development support;
lobbies governments to cut red tape; jawbones local colleges to
produce more engineering, math and science graduates; connects
entrepreneurs with business leaders who can provide mentoring;
and helps link companies to overseas markets.  Ohio  voters have
twice approved bond issues to fund the program.  Big Payoffs  Supplemental regional efforts offer smaller programs that
can have big payoffs. For example, Cleveland-based  Nortech 
offers one called Speed to Market Accelerator, which helps small
companies commercialize their products faster. Nortech also does
old-fashioned networking, having recently connected a major
plastics manufacturer with an entrepreneur looking to produce
synthetic oil from polymer waste.  All of this collaboration seems to be having an effect.
Ohio says Third Frontier has directly created 14,500 jobs, at an
average salary of about $62,000. Manufacturing has rebounded.
There are waiting lists for vacant apartments in downtown
Cleveland. Office space is scarce in Youngstown. Unemployment is
6.9 percent in Akron.  A recent Brookings Institution  study  of the U.S.’s 100
largest labor markets says  Cleveland  was fourth-best in the
country for attracting new industries and lowering unemployment.
Youngstown came in sixth, and Akron and Columbus tied for eighth
place.  None of these coalitions are ideological or partisan.
Government money is needed to pay for salaries and other
necessities, but the work doesn’t require gobs of federal funds.
It doesn’t provide easy sound bites the way tax cuts,  deficit
reduction  or entitlement reform do, and it isn’t as
intellectually stimulating as debating the virtues of free
markets versus the power of Keynesian economics. The evidence,
however, shows that it’s much more effective.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View.  Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  latest Iran nuclear
report ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  Barack Obama’s second-term persona ;
 Simon Johnson  on the  perils of big banks ;  Pankaj Mishra  on the
 rebirth of the Nonaligned Movement .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 