-- Yankees Beat Orioles 4-3 to Extend Lead in American League East
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-09-02T04:35:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-02/yankees-beat-orioles-4-3-to-extend-lead-in-american-league-east.html
Eduardo Nunez  capitalized on a
bases-loaded error to give the New York Yankees a 4-3 victory
that extended their American League East lead over the Baltimore
Orioles to three games.  Nunez raced home on shortstop J.J. Hardy’s error to cap a
three-run seventh inning yesterday as New York came from behind
to split the first two games of the three-game series at Yankee
Stadium.  The Yankees improved to 76-56 atop the AL East. In the AL
wild card race, the Orioles (73-59) are tied with the Oakland
Athletics (75-57) who defeated the Boston Red Sox 7-1 last night.  “A lot of people bend, but don’t break,” Orioles manager
Buck Showalter told reporters. “It’s not one of those things
that we’re going to dwell on. This could have been. That should
have been. That would have been. We understand that. These guys
will turn the page.”  The Orioles had a team-record 13 straight one-run decisions
broken by the loss. It was the longest streak of one-run
victories in Major League Baseball since the Toronto Blue Jays
had 19 straight in 1984, according to the Elias Sports Bureau.  Matt Wieters hit a home run in the fourth to give the
Orioles a 3-0 lead until  Robinson Cano  answered with a homer in
the bottom of the inning and the Yankees scored three in the
seventh, with Nunez hitting a run-scoring single,  Derek Jeter 
walking in a run and Nunez scoring when Hardy misplayed  Nick Swisher ’s one-hop grounder.  Wei-Yin Chen (12-8) went 6 2/3 innings for the Orioles and
took the loss, allowing four runs on four hits.  Boone Logan  (6-2) earned the win in relief and  Rafael Soriano  tallied his 35th save with a perfect ninth inning.  Granderson Sidelined  Curtis Granderson , who leads the majors with 75 home runs
since the start of 2011, left the game with a tight right
hamstring. An MRI at New York Presbyterian Hospital showed he
has tendinitis, Yankees manager  Joe Girardi  told reporters.  “He had a hard time getting loose, and we just thought if
he had to make a burst that it could turn into something really
not good,” Girardi said. “If he had a strain, you’re looking
at probably a minimum of two weeks. At this time of the year,
it’s hard to overcome that.”  At Nationals Park, the Washington Nationals lost 10-9 to
the St. Louis Cardinals while holding on to the top spot in the
majors. The Nationals (80-52) share the best record in the
league with the Cincinnati Reds (81-53).  The Cardinals (72-61) are tied for the lead in the NL wild
card race with the  Atlanta Braves  (74-59), who lost 5-1 to the
Philadelphia Phillies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  