-- A Pair of Kindle-Killers Surpass Amazon: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2012-04-25T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/a-pair-of-kindle-killers-surpass-amazon-rich-jaroslovsky.html
Success breeds competition, a
lesson  Apple (AAPL)  knows well from its iPhones and iPads. Now
 Amazon.com (AMZN)  is learning it from two new devices that take dead
aim at its Kindle tablet-and-e-reader business.  Samsung’s Galaxy Tab 2 7.0 is a low-cost, color-tablet
alternative to the Kindle Fire. Taking on the traditional
monochrome Kindle is Barnes & Noble’s Nook Simple Touch with
GlowLight. Each has features that surpass Amazon’s current
offerings.  Of all the tablets launched in the iPad’s wake, the Kindle
Fire has fared the best, thanks to its low $199 price and easy
access to Amazon’s vast collection of books, movies and music.
But with chunky hardware and sluggish software, the Fire itself
is no great shakes.  At $249, the Galaxy Tab 2 is $50 more expensive. But you
get your money’s worth in features missing from the Fire,
including front and rear-facing cameras and a remote-control
zapper for your home-entertainment gear. There’s also a more
elegant design and more-up-to-date software.  The Galaxy, like the Kindle, operates only over a Wi-Fi
Internet connection. Both are based on Google’s Android
operating system. But while the Kindle runs a heavily modified
version that requires you to get apps only from Amazon, the
Samsung uses the latest tablet-friendly flavor, known as “Ice
Cream Sandwich,” that allows apps from multiple sources.  Minimal Storage  Like the Kindle, the Galaxy features a seven-inch backlit
color screen with 1024-by-600 resolution and a minimalist eight
gigabytes of onboard storage -- less than five gigabytes of
which are actually available to the user for storing content and
apps.  But the screen is housed in a unit that is thinner and, at
12.13 ounces, lighter than the Amazon tablet. And the Galaxy
features a slot for a MicroSD card to expand its capacity.  That isn’t important if you mostly use your tablet for
reading e-books, which don’t take up much space, or for
streaming media over the Wi-Fi connection. It’s crucial if you
have a lot of movies and music you want to be able to carry with
you and access even when you’re offline.  While the Galaxy comes pre-loaded with e-reader software
from  Kobo , I immediately installed the free  Kindle Android app ,
which gave me access to all the e-books I’d previously purchased
from Amazon, as well as the ability to buy new ones from the
best-of-breed Kindle Store.  No Lending  Still, the app lacks some additional features you find only
on a Kindle device, such as the Lending Library that allows
users of Amazon’s $79-a-year Prime service to electronically
borrow books at no extra cost.  It’s in perks like that, and the overall seamlessness of
the Kindle, that the Galaxy Tab finds it hardest to compete.
Yes, you have more choices -- Samsung’s own  Media Hub  store,
 Netflix (NFLX) ,  Google Books  and the like -- but they require separate
apps and separate log-ins. Compared with Amazon’s built-in
software and one-time log-in, the Samsung experience is
fragmented.  One general advantage of color tablets is that they provide
their own light, making them easy to read in less-illuminated
conditions. Unless, of course, you’re reading in bed next to
someone who’s trying to sleep.  Light Reading  Until now, there’s been little recourse, since the
monochrome Kindle and its competitors, which use a technology
called E Ink, have required an external source like a lamp or
clip-on reading light. That’s where the $139  Nook Simple Touch
with GlowLight  comes in.  At first glance, the new Nook is indistinguishable from
 Barnes & Noble (BKS) ’s $99 monochrome reader, which I found to be a
close second to Amazon’s comparable  Kindle Touch  the last time I
looked at the field.  The big difference is that the new Nook has its own built-
in row of light-emitting diodes hidden along the upper edge of
the screen. You can turn the light on and off and also adjust
the brightness.  The light imparts a bluish glow to the screen that makes
text quite readable in low-light situations. While the light on
my test unit wasn’t uniform -- I noted a slightly dark area near
the top of the screen, affecting the first couple lines of text
-- I still found it easy on the eyes, and a lot more convenient
than other solutions.  Little Imposition  Aside from the $40 premium over the standard Nook, Barnes &
Noble says using the light doubles the Nook’s power consumption.
But battery life is already so great with  E Ink (8069)  devices that
having to charge the Nook once a month instead of every two
months doesn’t seem an undue imposition.  At less than seven ounces, the new model weighs even less
than the already featherweight unlit version, and B&N has also
added a new anti-reflective screen protector.  Amazon’s devices have so much momentum it’s unlikely that
the Galaxy Tab or Nook will dethrone them, and no doubt future
Kindles will quickly adopt the more compelling new features.
Still, the Galaxy Tab 2 and Nook with GlowLight provide
worthwhile alternatives.  (Rich Jaroslovsky is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on Broadway and  Jason
Harper  on autos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rich Jaroslovsky  in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 