-- ABB Declines on Slowdown in Chinese Construction, Transport
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2012-04-25T12:50:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/abb-declines-on-slowdown-in-chinese-construction-transport-2-.html
  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  shares fell as much as
4.2 percent after the world’s largest supplier of power grids
said it sees no immediate recovery in Chinese demand in
construction and transportation.  First-quarter Asian orders declined, led by  China , Zurich-
based ABB said today. The Swiss maker of transformers and
substations said it sees clearer signs of recovery in  North
America .  Cost cuts and price increases were “not enough to cover
the incredible slowdown seen in China,” Chief Executive Officer
 Joe Hogan  said on a media conference call.  The slowdown in the country hit revenue from China’s
transportation, construction industries. ABB saw weaker demand
in that market for low-voltage products like circuit- and
switch-breakers, and some medium-voltage products.  “It’s difficult to see when we can see a rebound in
construction and transportation” Chief Financial Officer Michel Demare said.  “The outlook statement looks more guarded with expectation
of flat or low single-digit revenue growth in early-cycle
businesses compared to the previous expectation of low single-
digit growth,” said Panagiotis Spiliopoulos, an analyst at Bank
Vontobel.  ‘Unfavorable Product Mix’  ABB said it needs China and southern  Europe  to recover in
order to improve the current “unfavorable product mix” that
has hampered margins. More than half of ABB’s profitability
decline from the first quarter of 2011 was attributable to the
challenging environment in China, the company said.  China made up 14 percent of revenue at the end of the
fourth quarter of 2011, said Thomas Schmidt, an ABB spokesman.  Part of ABB’s business in Europe and China is generated by
lower-margin products such as connectors and low-voltage gear
that are shipped in large volumes. These products generally
contribute about 20 percent to 25 percent of revenue,
Spiliopoulos said.  Shares of ABB traded 3.1 percent lower at 17.81 francs as
of 2:22 p.m. in Zurich.  First-quarter profit matched analysts’ estimates after the
company cut costs to counter weaker pricing. Earnings before
interest and taxes rose to $1.05 billion from $1.01 billion a
year earlier. Orders increased 2 percent in local currencies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  