-- Accretive Put Debt Collectors in Hospitals, State AG Says
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-04-25T21:54:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/accretive-placed-debt-collectors-in-hospitals-minnesota-ag-says.html
Accretive Health Inc. (AH)  tumbled by
the most ever after  Minnesota ’s attorney general alleged that
the company improperly posted debt collectors in hospital
emergency rooms and at the bedsides of patients.  Accretive  dropped  42 percent to $10.75 in  New York  today,
the most since the debt-collection company first sold shares to
the public in 2010.  Minnesota Attorney General Lori Swanson is suing Chicago-
based Accretive for violations of U.S. and state patient-privacy
and debt-collection laws. She said patients at Fairview Health
Services, a Minnesota hospital chain, were pressured for payment
before they received care in some cases and that Accretive’s
debt collectors didn’t properly disclose their role.  Employees of Fairview, a nonprofit chain of seven hospitals
based in  Minneapolis , were required to use a computer system
derisively called “Blue Balls” to track whether patients paid
their bills and push for payment before they received care,
Swanson said yesterday. The payment system began after Fairview
hired Accretive in May 2010, Swanson said in a report describing
the companies’ relationship.  Accretive’s tactics as “a high-pressure boiler-room-style
sales atmosphere,” are “in conflict with the purpose of a
charitable health-care organization,” according to the report
based on internal documents and interviews with employees.  Swanson  said Fairview may have jeopardized its tax-exempt
status by partnering with the debt-collection company.  “It is critical that our business practices align with our
values and comply with applicable laws and industry standards,”
Fairview said in a statement.  Payment Scripts  Ryan Davenport, a spokesman for the hospital group, said in
an e-mail that he couldn’t “address specific issues raised” in
Swanson’s report.  Actions that Accretive used at Fairview included issuing
emergency room employees “scripts” for conversations with
patients that “can lead a patient or her family to believe the
patient will not receive treatment until payment is made,”
Swanson said in her report.  Federal law prohibits hospitals from refusing emergency
treatment to anyone, regardless of ability to pay.  Employees were instructed to ask for credit card payments,
tell patients they’d wait for them to retrieve their checkbooks
from their cars, or if the patients said they couldn’t pay,
remind them that debt-collection activities “can affect your
credit score,” according to the scripts.  ‘Accountable Care’  Fairview’s board of directors voted to end part of its
contract with Accretive last month, a decision that may cost the
collection company as much as $68 million this year, Accretive
said in a March 29 filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  “We have a great track record of helping hospitals enhance
their quality of care,” Francesca Luthi, a spokeswoman for
Accretive, said yesterday in a statement. “For example, we have
helped over 250,000 patients get insurance coverage.”  Luthi’s statement was issued by  Rhonda Barnat , a managing
director of the Abernathy MacGregor Group in New York.  Fairview is one of 32 large hospital systems and physician
groups around the country participating in an experiment with
Medicare to try to coordinate patient care more efficiently TO
reduce costs. Fairview gets to split any savings with the
government if the arrangement, called an “accountable care
organization,” is successful.  A spokesman for Medicare,  Brian Cook , didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail yesterday after business hours seeking
comment on Fairview’s participation in the program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  