-- Ace ‘On the Hunt’ in Japan as Greenberg Calls Rivals Naive
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-04-26T01:47:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/ace-on-the-hunt-in-japan-as-greenberg-says-rivals-were-naive.html
Ace Ltd. (ACE) , the Swiss insurer with
operations in more than 50 countries, is seeking expansion in
 Japan  after the country’s insurers took on too much risk, Chief
Executive Officer Evan Greenberg said.  “We have an operation in Japan, and we’re on the hunt
there,” Greenberg said on a conference call yesterday.  Reinsurance rates rose as much as 60 percent for earthquake
coverage in Japan, and less for other risks, after the country’s
temblor and tsunami in March 2011, Swiss Re Ltd. said in June.
Greenberg said local companies may have charged too little in an
attempt to maintain contracts in their home country.  Japanese insurers were “naïve in their underwriting,”
Greenberg said on the call with analysts. “We’re seeing some
opportunity and that may accelerate.”  Ace’s expansion plan comes as Japanese insurers are turning
to foreign markets and cutting costs locally to counter
declining demand because of the nation’s stagnant economy and
shrinking population.  MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings Inc. (8725) ,
Japan’s biggest casualty insurer, is buying a stake in  India ’s
Max New York Life Insurance Co., while  Tokio Marine Holdings
Inc. (8766) , the second largest, agreed to buy Delphi Financial Group
Inc. in its biggest acquisition in three years in December.  Earthquakes, Floods  Reinsurance rates rose in April 1 renewals, which focus on
the Asia-Pacific region, after last year’s losses from
earthquakes and floods in Japan, Thailand and  New Zealand ,
reinsurance broker Guy Carpenter & Co. said on April 5. About
two-thirds of annual property and casualty reinsurance contracts
typically come up for renewal in January, with the remainder
renewed in April and July.  Ace, which sells both primary coverage and reinsurance, has
expanded through acquisitions in  Hong Kong , Korea and  Malaysia ,
including the purchase of some Asian units of New York Life
Insurance Co. for $425 million. U.S. policy sales increased 0.6
percent in the first quarter, compared with an 8.4 percent jump
overseas, the insurer said April 24.  Net income more than tripled to $973 million in the first
quarter as catastrophe costs fell, the Zurich-based insurer said.
Operating income, which excludes some investment results, was
$2.05 a share, beating by 18 cents the average estimate of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The insurer advanced 0.9 percent to $75.95 in New York
yesterday and has gained 8.3 percent this year. The 77-company
Bloomberg World Insurance Index gained 12 percent since Dec. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  