-- Acquity Pushing Ahead With U.S. IPO After China Auto Postpones
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-04-25T17:43:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/acquity-pushing-ahead-with-u-s-ipo-after-china-auto-postpones.html
Acquity Group Ltd. (AQ) , a Hong Kong-
based digital marketing firm, will push ahead with its U.S.
initial public offering, even as the second Chinese company to
try and sell shares in New York this year postponed its IPO.  Acquity plans to raise as much as $55.6 million tomorrow
selling American depositary receipts in the company in a price
range of $8 to $10 apiece, according to an April 23  filing .
Beijing-based China Auto Rental Holdings Inc. delayed its IPO
late yesterday because of “the current capital market
conditions” according to an e-mailed statement from the car
rental company’s public relations firm.  “We are still on schedule,” Audrey Ling, Acquity’s
investor relations manager, said by phone today in  New York ,
after China Auto’s announcement. The IPO will be priced tomorrow
and the shares will start trading on the New York Stock Exchange
on April 27, she said.  Vipshop Holdings Ltd. (VIPS) , the first Chinese company to go
public in the U.S. this year, raised 39 percent less than
planned in its March 23 IPO and is trading 17 percent below its
offer price. IPOs by Chinese companies fell to 13 last year,
from 38 in 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, as
short sellers including Muddy Waters LLC accused firms of
misstating assets and the European debt crisis boosted concern
over a global slowdown.  Acquity “has a better chance to complete its IPO because
they are profitable,”  Francis Gaskins , president of Marina Del
Rey, California-based IPO desktop, which monitors IPO deals,
said in an interview. “China Auto was profitable in the recent
quarter and needs to show profits for several more quarters.”  Acquity had a net profit of $8.3 million in 2011, after
incurring losses in the previous three years, according to its
filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  