-- Mad Cow Disease Remains Rare Since Discovery in U.K.: Factsheet
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r   a n d   A n g e l a   Z i m m
-- 2012-04-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/mad-cow-disease-remains-rare-since-discovery-in-u-k-factsheet.html
Mad cow disease, identified in four
cases involving U.S. cattle starting in 2003, is related to an
incurable condition in humans called variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob
that leads to a rapid decline of mental function and movement.  The latest mad cow case, found at a California rendering
plant this month, didn’t enter the food chain for humans,
according to the U.S. Agriculture Department.  Here’s a rundown on the two conditions, based on
information from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention in Atlanta and the  National Institutes of Health  in
Bethesda, Maryland:  Q: What is mad cow disease?  A: Known formally as bovine spongiform encephalopathy, it
is a neurological disorder in cattle that leads to degeneration
in the brain and spinal cord, and eventually death. The
infection, first diagnosed in the U.K. in the 1980’s, probably
originated from cattle feed that contained ground-up infected
animal parts. BSE is considered to be caused by an abnormal
protein known as a prion that lodges in brain and spinal tissue.
Animals become disoriented, stumble and eventually die.  “It’s been rare here,” Michele Jay-Russell, a researcher
at the Western Institute for  Food Safety  and Security at the
 University of California  in Davis, said by telephone. “ Canada 
has had more cases than we have. We have a fairly robust
surveillance system.”  Q: How many cases have been identified in  North America ?  A: Twenty-two were identified in North America through the
end of 2011, including three in the U.S. One of the U.S. cases
involved an animal born in Canada, where 19 cases have been
recorded. An outbreak in the U.K. peaked in January 1993 at
almost 1,000 new cases in cattle a week.  The latest case is atypical, said Guy Loneragan, an
epidemiologist and professor of food safety and public health at
Texas Tech University in Lubbock. That means it “may be a
spontaneous, extraordinary event in older animals” and not
likely due to  animal feed , he said.  Q: Can people get mad cow disease?  A: The human form is called variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob
disease, or vCJD, and studies have shown a link between the
human prion disease which was first reported in the U.K. in
1996, and the animal form. The disease in humans is probably
spread through consumption of processed food containing infected
beef, scientists said.  Symptoms can include blurred vision, disorientation,
hallucinations, lack of coordination and speech impairment. The
condition is progressive, and can be fatal within months. There
is no treatment. In the 1990’s, an outbreak of the disease in
Britain led to the wholesale destruction of English cattle to
prevent further cases.  Q: Are there treatments for animals?  A: No.  Q: Should I be concerned about eating meat?  A: The USDA said it “remains confident in the health of
the national herd and the safety of beef and dairy products.”  Q: What protective restrictions or preventive measures are
in place in the U.S.?  A: Concern about tainted beef resurfaced in 2003 when the
first infected cow was found, and the government expanded its
screening program at the time. State veterinary laboratories do
surveillance to identify cattle showing neurological symptoms
that suggest mad cow. The U.S. bans the use of cow brains and
spinal tissue in cattle feed.  There is also evidence from a small number of case reports
that vCJD can be transmitted through transfusion. Since there is
no test that can be used to screen human blood, the American Red
Cross doesn’t accept blood from people who lived or visited the
U.K. for more than three months from January 1980 through
December 1996; or spent five years or more from January 1980 to
the present in any European country.  U.S. and international surveillance systems are working,
according to John Clifford, the USDA’s chief veterinarian. Last
year, there were 29 worldwide case of mad cow, a 99 percent
reduction since the peak in 1992 of 37,311 cases, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Zimm in Boston at 
 azimm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  