-- AIG Sues Ex-International Lease Executives Over Trade Secrets
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-04-25T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/air-lease-says-aig-s-trade-secrets-lawsuit-is-baseless-1-.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
sued the former chief executive officer of its International
Lease Finance Corp. aircraft lending business, saying he stole
confidential information when he left the company and started
 Air Lease Corp. (AL)   AIG filed a complaint yesterday in Los Angeles Superior
Court accusing Steven Udvar-Hazy and 10 other former
International Lease Finance executives of breach of fiduciary
duty and stealing trade secrets, among other claims, when they
left the company in 2010. AIG seeks to recover “several
hundreds of millions” of dollars, according to the complaint.  “We regret having to file this suit, but the defendants’
misconduct left us no choice but to go to court to protect our
rights and the rights of our shareholders, including our largest
shareholder, the American taxpayer,” Mark Herr, a spokesman for
New York-based AIG, said in an e-mailed statement.  AIG said Udvar-Hazy tried to buy all or part of
International Lease Finance, the Los Angeles-based company he
started in 1973 and sold to AIG in 1990 for $1.3 billion. AIG
was soliciting bids for International Lease Finance in 2008 when
the insurer needed to raise capital to repay an $85 billion U.S.
government loan, according to the complaint.  Fleet of Planes  Udvar-Hazy couldn’t reach an agreement in January 2010 to
buy a fleet of planes from International Lease Finance to start
his business because he wouldn’t be allowed to solicit other
executives or use confidential data, according to AIG’s
complaint. He “resigned from ILFC, and then stole what ILFC
refused to sell,” according to the complaint.  Among the  trade secrets  AIG says the former executives
stole were leased aircraft valuation summaries, terms sheets and
contracts of dozens of leases, the “sin list” of customer
payment history, and lease agreements some of these executives
were actively working on.  Air Lease said in a statement that International Lease
Finance resorted to filing a lawsuit because it hasn’t been able
to compete and perceives Air Lease as a growing threat.
International Lease Finance has “struggled with an aging fleet,
heavy debt load, and loss of talent,” Air Lease said.  Herr said in a follow-up statement that Air Lease’s
allegations were “spurious” and a “smoke screen to distract
attention from it illegal conduct.”  The case is AIG v. Air Lease, BC483370, Superior Court of
 California  ( Los Angeles ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 