-- Taiwanese Nationals Charged in Military Technology Plot
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-04-25T21:13:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/taiwanese-nationals-charged-in-military-technology-plot-1-.html
Two Taiwanese nationals already
accused of trying to smuggle drugs through a  New Jersey  port
were charged today with plotting to export sensitive U.S.
military technology to benefit the Chinese government.  Hui Sheng Shen, 45, and Huan Ling Chang, 41, who were
arrested in February and are being held without bail, appeared
before a judge today in  Newark , New Jersey. They are accused of
conspiring to buy unmanned aerial vehicles, or drones, as well
as E-2C Hawkeye surveillance airplanes and stealth technology
related to F-22 fighter planes.  Shen and Chang “purportedly acted on behalf of agents of
the People’s Republic of  China  and sought to acquire assets and
information which, in their words, ‘would hurt America,’”
according to an amended criminal complaint. Agents posing as
crooked importers recorded the pair, U.S. authorities said.  The two were among 29 people charged with smuggling
$325 million in counterfeit  consumer goods  from China, including
phony Nike Inc. sneakers and Coach Inc. handbags, through a New
Jersey port, authorities announced March 2. Shen and Chang were
charged with trying to import 50 kilograms (110 pounds) of
crystal methamphetamine from Taiwan to the U.S.  “Initial investigations into counterfeit goods importation
led federal law enforcement to a meth trafficking operation and
an alleged plot to export some of America’s most sensitive
weapons and related technology to China,” U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman said in a statement.  Life Sentences  Shen and Chang may face life sentences on the drug count
and as long as five years in prison on charges brought under the
Arms Export Control Act.  “My client asserts her innocence and we look forward to
her vindication on all of the charges,” said Chang’s attorney,
Maria Noto. Shen’s attorney, Ken Kayser, declined to comment.  Shen portrays himself as a logistics expert who can move
contraband around the world, according to the complaint prepared
by the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation. Chang portrays herself
as a schoolteacher who is fluent in English, Spanish and
Mandarin, the FBI said.  They were charged with trying to import crystal meth with
Soon Ah Kow, 72, of  Hong Kong , who was indicted in January and
arrested Feb. 18 in  Manila . He was also accused of illegally
importing cigarettes and footwear.  ‘Sample Load’  Shen and Chang had discussed selling 50 kilograms of
crystal meth to undercover FBI agents, and delivered one kilo as
a “sample load” concealed in tea bags hidden in a computer
inside a cargo container, authorities said.  While negotiating the meth sale, Shen and Chang said they
were “working with a special adviser to a high-ranking Chinese
government official,” according to the complaint. They asked
agents about “nuclear technology, Global Hawk drones, Reaper
drones, Raven drones, control panels of aircraft engaged in
advanced radar warning systems, and F-22 stealth technology,”
authorities said.  In a series of recorded conversations about military
technology, Shen and Chang told the agents that their associates
were “connected to the Chinese government, worked for a Chinese
intelligence company like the CIA, and would be using government
money to make the purchases,” according to Fishman’s statement.  Geng Shuang, a spokesman for the Chinese embassy in
 Washington , didn’t respond to an e-mail or call seeking comment
on the allegations.  ‘Hurt America’  The FBI said an agent was recorded as saying: “I would
prefer not to make money on something that would hurt the  United
States .”  Shen replied, “I think that all items would hurt
America,” according to the U.S.  Chang and Shen came to  New York  on Feb. 18 to discuss drug
and weapons transactions, according to the FBI complaint. Shen
and Chang told agents they bought cameras to photograph military
technology. They said they intended to take pictures, delete
them on their memory cards to avoid detection, and have a friend
in China retrieve them after leaving the U.S., the FBI said.  In discussing how he would remove one military item from
the U.S., Shen said “he could use techniques that he had
learned from narcotics trafficking, such as using scuba divers
to swim out to a ship docked offshore with parts,” according to
the FBI. He also said he would load parts onto a “remote
controlled semi-submersible vehicle,” and rendezvous with a
ship, the FBI said.  On Feb. 24, agents showed Chang and Shen manuals for two
weapons. They photographed both manuals, according to the FBI.  “Before defendants could delete the photographs,  law
enforcement  officers arrested” them, the FBI said.  The case is U.S. v. Shen, 12-mj-7062, U.S. District Court,
District of New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 