-- Akamai Says CEO Sagan to Leave; Profit Less Than Estimates
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-04-26T13:39:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/akamai-says-ceo-departing-by-end-2013-sales-top-estimates-1-.html
Akamai Technologies Inc. (AKAM) , which
helps businesses deliver data at faster speeds over the
Internet, said Chief Executive Officer Paul Sagan will leave by
the end of 2013.  The Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company is starting a
search to replace Sagan, who became president in 1999 and CEO in
2005. Akamai’s sales more than quadrupled during his leadership,
to $1.16 billion in 2011 from $283.1 million in 2005.  Sagan, 53, has been with Akamai for almost 14 years,
helping the company become less dependent on its content-
delivery network business, which was becoming commoditized. He
acquired companies to add services and products that would
differentiate Akamai from competitors, said  Sameet Sinha , an
analyst at B. Riley & Co. in  San Francisco .  “They’re positioning themselves as a cloud-computing
applications-services provider, while their competitors just
sell core CDN,” Sinha said. “Paul has been around a long time
in a tough industry.”  Second-quarter profit excluding some costs will be 36 cents
to 38 cents a share, James Benson, Akamai’s chief financial
officer, said during a call with analysts yesterday. That’s less
than the average  analyst  estimate of 39 cents, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales will be $322 million to $330
million, more than analysts’ average estimate of $314.8 million.  Akamai shares declined 8.8 percent to $35.35 at 9:37 a.m.
in New York. The stock has climbed 20 percent this year before
today.  No ‘Radical Change’?  “Of course, he would like to go out with great numbers,”
said  Donna Jaegers , an analyst at D.A. Davidson & Co. in Denver,
referring to Sagan. “I don’t sense that there’s going to be a
radical change in the company.”  Akamai’s customers include  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  When former CFO J.D.
Sherman departed earlier this year, Akamai promoted Benson, who
had joined the company in 2009 from  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  This
time, they’re likely to replace Sagan with an outside candidate
with a corporate sales background, Sinha said.  “They need somebody who’s not a telecom guy,” Sinha said.
“They need somebody who’s worked in hardware or software who
has enterprise sales experience.”  Sagan, a cousin of scientist Carl Sagan, has a background
in broadcast journalism. In 1991, while working at Time Warner
Inc., he helped design and introduce NY 1 News, the cable
network in  New York City , and later helped found Road Runner,
the first broadband cable-modem service. He joined Akamai in
October 1998.  ‘Next Level’  “Starting a search now means the board and I can take the
time we need to find the right person to elevate the company to
the next level and achieve the $5 billion revenue goal I set for
us by the end of this decade,” Sagan said on a conference call.
“I intend to vigorously lead the company until my successor has
been named.”  Akamai, which went public at the height of the Internet
boom in late 1999, lost most of its value after the bubble
burst. Sagan helped lead Akamai after its co-founder, Daniel Lewin, died aboard American Airlines Flight 11, which crashed
into the World Trade Center on Sept. 11, 2001.  Sagan  owns  $15.4 million worth of shares in Akamai,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Today, the company is
being helped by demand for services that push data-heavy digital
media content, such as videos, around the world more quickly.
While Sagan is still running the company, he needs to get more
traction internationally, Jaegers said.  “They need to grow faster in  China  and  India  and they need
to increase the size of the sales force to take advantage of
opportunities in the enterprise,” she said.  Acquisition Prospects  The CEO transition will make an acquisition of the company
less likely, Jaegers said.  The  company  also said first-quarter sales rose to $319.4
million, topping $310.8 million, the average  analyst  estimate.
Profit excluding some costs was 41 cents a share, Akamai said in
a statement yesterday. That beat the 38-cent estimate.  Net income fell to $43.2 million, or 24 cents a share, from
$50.6 million, or 26 cents, a year earlier, the company said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  