-- Lakers’ Metta World Peace Suspended Seven Games by NBA for Elbow
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-04-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/lakers-world-peace-is-suspended-7-nba-games-for-throwing-elbow.html
The  Los Angeles Lakers  will begin
the playoffs without starting forward Metta World Peace, who was
suspended seven games without pay by the  National Basketball
Association  for elbowing Oklahoma City guard James Harden in the
head and giving him a concussion.  World Peace, who legally changed his name from  Ron Artest 
last year, was thrown out of the Lakers’ 114-106 double-overtime
win against the Thunder on April 22 following the incident,
which led to a flagrant 2 foul.  World Peace, 32, was pounding his chest with his right hand
after a dunk when he raised his left arm across his face and
then swung it back, elbowing Harden near the ear. Harden fell to
the floor and held the side of his head as play was stopped for
several minutes. Harden didn’t return to the game, and did not
play last night against the  Sacramento Kings .  “The concussion suffered by  James Harden  demonstrates the
danger posed by violent acts of this kind, particularly when
they are directed at the head area,” NBA Commissioner  David Stern  said in a statement released last night by the league.
“We remain committed to taking necessary measures to protect
the safety of NBA players, including the imposition of
appropriate penalties for players with a history of on-court
altercations.”  The suspension will begin with the Lakers’ game tomorrow at
 Sacramento , their last regular-season game, and continue into
the playoffs. The Lakers lead the Pacific Division with a 41-24
record and are in position for the No. 3 seed in the Western
Conference as they seek a third NBA championship in four seasons.  Apology to Harden  World Peace apologized to Harden and the Thunder after the
game, saying the elbow was unintentional and that he was caught
up in the emotion of dunking on Kevin Durant and Serge Ibaka.  “Metta has for the most part been a model citizen both on
and off the court since joining the Lakers,” General Manager
Mitch Kupchak said in a statement on the team’s website. “Still,
his most recent lapse in judgment is not to be condoned or
accepted.”  World Peace left yesterday’s practice just as reporters
were being allowed in, and canceled a scheduled appearance on
Conan O’Brien’s late-night television show.  Previous Suspensions  It was the latest incident of questionable behavior in the
13-year NBA career of World Peace, a native of Queens, New York,
who played at  St. John’s University  in 1997-99.  In 2004, he ran into the stands and started a brawl with
Detroit Pistons fans while playing for the  Indiana Pacers . He
was suspended for a total of 86 games -- the final 73 of the
regular season and another 13 in the playoffs.  World Peace, who was also banned for the first seven games
of the 2007-08 season after pleading no contest to spousal abuse,
a year ago received the NBA’s citizenship award for his efforts
to promote mental-health awareness. He was averaging 7.6 points
and 3.4 rebounds in his third season with the Lakers, who won
NBA titles after the 2008-09 and 2009-10 seasons.  “His actions could have seriously injured another player,
and his absence during this suspension will hurt our team,”
Kupchak said. “While we accept the league’s decision, we will
be supportive of Metta and try to help him be more professional
on the court.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  