-- Al-Qaeda Seeks Cyber-Attack Skills, U.S. Official Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-04-25T04:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/al-qaeda-seeks-cyber-attack-skills-u-s-official-says.html
Al-Qaeda operatives are seeking the
capability to stage cyber attacks against U.S. networks, the
intelligence chief of the U.S. Cyber Command said.  While it’s “accurate today,” that the terrorist group
isn’t close to having such a capacity, “how fast that can
change is my concern,” Rear Admiral  Samuel Cox  said at a
conference yesterday in Arlington, Virgina.  “We are used to what the current threat is, and we lose
sight of just how fast that can change and go bad,” Cox said at
the conference organized by Representative Jim Moran, a Virginia
Democrat who serves on the House defense appropriations panel.
“They don’t have to build some technological thing.”  Al-Qaeda “could hire it, or blackmail it, or find the
right person who has that skill set and be able to use that and
rapidly increase their capabilities,” he said.  Cox gave his assessment during an overview of cyber threats
the U.S. faces from nation states and non-state actors that can
infiltrate  computer networks  to gather information or launch
attacks that take down networks. Certain nations that don’t now
have them are within a few years of acquiring offensive cyber
capabilities comparable to those of the U.S., he said.  “We have a good understanding of what techniques the
 United States  could use against other countries if directed, and
how long it would take other adversaries to achieve the same
capability -- that time frame is relatively short,” Cox said.  Immunizing the Public  Cox said the constant references in the media to “cyber
attacks” may be immunizing the public against concern because
the term doesn’t capture the different dimensions of hacking the
U.S. faces.  “In some respects, it’s been a little over-hyped” because
“the likelihood that an adversary is going to take down the
entire power grid of the U.S. or stop the Internet -- there’s
huge amounts of resiliency built into the system that makes that
kind of catastrophic thing very difficult,” he said.  “But you could do more tailored, precise-type strikes”
against the U.S. financial network “that results in an
uncontrolled run on U.S. banks,” Cox said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  