-- Halliburton Opposes BP’s Proposed Settlement of Gulf Spill
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 2012-04-25T03:34:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/halliburton-opposes-bp-s-proposed-settlement-of-gulf-oil-spill.html
Halliburton Co. (HAL)  is opposing a
$7.8 billion proposed settlement between  BP Plc (BP/)  and lawyers
suing the London-based company over the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil
spill, according to a court filing.  BP in March agreed to resolve most private plaintiffs’
claims for economic loss, property damage and spill and clean-up
related injuries. Lawyers for BP and the plaintiffs filed the
accord April 18 with U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in  New
Orleans  for preliminary approval. Barbier is considering the
request for approval at a hearing tomorrow.  Halliburton “objects to the limited amount of time
available to analyze the settlement agreements and files these
preliminary objections,” Donald E. Godwin, a lawyer for the
Houston-based company, said in court papers today. The proposed
agreements cover two classes, for economic loss and medical
injury.  Halliburton also objects to the agreement because it
assigns BP’s claims against the company to the plaintiffs
lawyers and attempts to make Halliburton “liable in part for
settlement payments,” Godwin said. The settlement also
restricts Halliburton’s ability to settle claims, he said.  The blowout and  explosion  on the Deepwater Horizon drilling
rig killed 11 workers and caused the worst offshore  oil spill  in
U.S. history. The accident prompted hundreds of lawsuits against
London-based BP;  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the Vernier, Switzerland-based
owner and operator of the rig; and Halliburton, which provided
cementing services.  Proposed Settlement  The proposed settlement, reached March 2, days before a
scheduled trial on liability for the 2010 spill, doesn’t cover
federal government claims and those of the Gulf Coast states
 Louisiana  and  Alabama .  Also excluded are claims of financial institutions,
casinos, private plaintiffs in parts of Florida and  Texas , and
residents and businesses claiming harm from the Obama
administration’s moratorium on deep-water drilling prompted by
the spill.  BP and the Plaintiffs Steering Committee, a group of
lawyers appointed by Barbier to handle the lawsuits, asked the
judge to hold a Nov. 8 fairness hearing before final approval of
the accord and to postpone any trial on liability until after
the hearing.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the  Gulf of Mexico  on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  