-- Altech Gains After Announcing East, West African Review
-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-04-25T15:25:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/altech-gains-for-first-time-in-three-days-on-africa-review-1-.html
Allied Technologies Ltd. (ALT)  gained
after saying it is reviewing operations in East and West Africa
as it incurred losses in the regions, leading to a full-year
loss of 502 million rand ($65 million).  Shares in the South African maker of pay-TV set-top boxes
rose 0.5 percent to 52.50 rand at the close in Johannesburg, the
first advance this week.  The loss for the year through February compared with a
profit of 225 million rand a year earlier. Operations in Nigeria
and  Kenya  have not performed to management’s satisfaction, the
company said in a statement today. Kenya Data Networks is
trading below expectations and has been “heavily impacted” by
the cancellation of a major client’s dark fibre business, it
said. Impairments on the East and West African businesses
contributed to a pretax loss of 240 million rand, Altech said.  “It’s been a poor performance so restructuring might have
a positive effect going forward,” Hennie Fourie, a portfolio
manager at PSG Konsult, said by phone from  Pretoria . “The
results were expected so that was already priced into the
shares.”  The company has restructured its operations in  East Africa 
into a more “regionally-focused” business, Altech said. Closer
collaboration between these businesses is already having a
“positive” effect, it said.  “Given the disappointing performance, the turnaround of
Altech’s East African businesses is clearly a top priority
within the group and is receiving considerable management
attention,” the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net  or
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  