-- Amgen to Acquire Mustafa Nevzat to Tap Growth in Turkey
-- B y   M a r t h e   F o u r c a d e
-- 2012-04-25T20:26:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/amgen-to-acquire-mustafa-nevzat-to-tap-growth-in-turkey-3-.html
Amgen Inc. (AMGN) , the world’s largest
biotechnology company, agreed to buy closely held Mustafa Nevzat
Pharmaceuticals for almost $700 million to expand in Turkey,
where economic growth is boosting demand for medicines.  Amgen will pay cash to get 95.6 percent of Mustafa Nevzat,
or MN Pharmaceuticals as the Istanbul-based generic-drug maker
is known, the companies said in a joint statement. The
transaction will boost Amgen’s presence in a region that has
“large, fast-growing, priority markets,” they said.  Amgen is seeking to shore up revenue as its former core
anemia franchise declines. In the past few months, the  Thousand
Oaks , California-based company has acquired Micromet Inc. for
$1.16 billion to add an experimental leukemia drug, signed a
development deal with AstraZeneca Plc and boosted its presence
in the cancer market through sales of the bone drug Xgeva.  “Amgen’s focus on  Turkey  and the surrounding region is
part of a broad international expansion strategy,” the company
said in the statement.  Amgen rose 2.3 percent to $70.19 at 4 p.m. New York time,
its highest amount since January 2007. The shares have gained
9.1 percent this year.  Turkey has been a popular target for deals in recent years,
with companies seeking to tap its $772 billion economy, which
grew 8.5 percent last year, the third-fastest rate among the
Group of 20 countries after  China  and  Argentina . Zentiva NV, a
Czech drugmaker bought by Sanofi in 2009, acquired 75 percent of
the generic-drug unit of Turkey’s Eczacibasi in 2007 and later
purchased the remaining 25 percent stake.  FDA License  MN is the leading supplier of pharmaceuticals to hospitals
in Turkey and garnered sales of about $200 million last year,
according to the statement. It was the first Turkish
pharmaceutical company to win a license from the  Food and Drug
Administration  to sell products in the U.S., according to the
company’s  website .  The company’s owners, the children and grandchildren of the
founder Mustafa Nevzat Pisak, hired bankers last year to sell a
stake, people with direct knowledge of the situation said Jan.
31. Bank of America Merrill Lynch advised them and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. worked with Amgen. Amgen’s lawyers were  Cleary
Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP  in  London  and Paksoy in Istanbul,
a spokeswoman said.  Two other Turkish pharmaceutical companies -- Abdi Ibrahim
Ilac Sanayi & Ticaret, the country’s largest, and Biofarma
Pharmaceutical Industry Co. -- have failed in efforts to sell
stakes over the past two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marthe Fourcade in Paris at 
 mfourcade@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  