-- AMR Likely to Consider Merger in Bankruptcy, Adviser Says
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-04-26T17:03:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/amr-will-likely-consider-merger-in-bankruptcy-adviser-says.html
American Airlines , as part of its
bankruptcy reorganization, will probably consider a merger as it
seeks to get the best deal for stakeholders, an investment
banker for the airline said in court.  David Resnick, chairman of global financing advisory at
Rothschild Inc., was asked yesterday at a court hearing whether
a merger would be considered before exiting bankruptcy. He said
it’s likely because American is obliged to get the highest value
for stakeholders.  “Stakeholders would want to ensure they are getting the
highest possible value so they would want the debtor to look at
alternatives to a stand-alone plan,” he said during testimony
in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  Manhattan .  Resnick’s comments come as  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  seeks to
build support for a possible takeover of American parent  AMR
Corp. (AAMRQ)  Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways is targeting AMR’s
unsecured creditors committee after winning the backing of the
carrier’s biggest unions.  US Airways Chief Executive Officer Doug Parker said
yesterday on a conference call with analysts and investors that
agreements with the labor groups were a “big step” as the
company progresses from the unions to the creditor panel and
eventually to AMR’s board.  Labor Contracts  Resnick was testifying as part of American’s effort to win
court approval to void labor contracts with unions. The  Fort
Worth , Texas-based airline is seeking to cut $1.25 billion in
annual labor costs in its restructuring. Jeffrey Brundage,
senior vice president of human resources at the company, is
scheduled to testify today.  When the hearing on the union contracts began April 23, AMR
Chief Executive Officer  Tom Horton  said in a letter to employees
that any decision to pursue a merger is “the charge” of the
board of directors and the company’s leadership “in close
collaboration with the creditors committee.”  “Everyone should understand that what’s best for our
company, our people and our financial stakeholders will be
determined by the facts in a disciplined manner and process,”
Horton wrote. “And this includes whether American will choose
to pursue any combination down the road.”  Resnick testified yesterday about a presentation to the
creditor’s committee that discussed consolidation opportunities.  ‘Our Focus’  During his testimony, when asked when AMR should consider
strategic alternatives, Resnick said the airline should develop
a stand-alone plan and use it as a basis for comparing
alternatives such as a merger. A stand-alone reorganization
would pay unsecured creditors with equity in the reorganized
company, he said.  “Our focus to date has been on the stand-alone plan,” he
said.  Alexander Dichter, an AMR adviser who works at consulting
firm McKinsey & Co., also argued in favor of first developing a
business plan during his testimony today. The power a company
brings to merger negotiations is linked to its business plan, he
said.  “We believe strongly it is very important to have a viable
stand-alone plan before you consider such alternatives, not just
on paper but in actuality,” Dichter said.  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  