-- Animal Abusers Would Be Named Under Bills in 26 States
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2012-04-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/animal-abusers-would-be-named-under-bills-in-26-states.html
Those who batter, abuse or kill
dogs and cats would get the same public scorn as sex offenders
in bills introduced in legislatures throughout the U.S.  Online registries for convicted animal abusers already have
been approved in three  New York  counties, including Suffolk,
where the nation’s first takes effect May 7. Twenty-five states
have considered such laws since 2010, according to the  Animal
Legal Defense Fund , which is leading the campaign.  Backers say the bills recognize a growing awareness of
animal rights -- and the public-safety benefits of stopping
abusers, who studies show often go on to harm humans.  “There’s a mountain of evidence that says we need
something like this,” said Michigan Representative Harvey Santana, a Detroit Democrat who’s proposed a registry there.
“There is a strong correlation between people who abuse animals
and graduate to abusing people.”  Other states where legislatures are considering similar
bills include New York,  New Jersey ,  Connecticut ,  California ,
 Texas ,  Pennsylvania ,  Florida  and  Maryland , according to the
Cotati, California-based Legal Defense Fund.  The case of National Football League quarterback  Michael Vick  shows why the drive has momentum, said Stephen Wells,
executive director of the fund, which says it has 100,000
members. Vick was sent to prison in 2007 on charges of
conspiracy to break dog-fighting laws, not animal cruelty, Wells
said.  ‘Common Sense’  “It’s frustrating to see repeat offenders commit these
crimes and get away with it in people’s eyes,” said Wells, 47,
in a telephone interview. “The registries appeal to people’s
common sense.”  Public shame has a long history in the U.S., dating to the
Puritans’ use of stocks to punish colonial criminals. Some
cities have combated prostitution by publishing photos of their
clients in newspapers and, in  Minneapolis , on an electronic
billboard.  The animal-abuse idea is an outgrowth of registries for sex
offenders begun by states in 1996 under order of Congress. The
initiative isn’t uniformly supported by animal-rights
organizations.  Tracking abuse in FBI data would do more to prevent it,
Wayne Pacelle, chief executive of the  Humane Society  of the
U.S., wrote in a December 2010 blog post. Many people convicted
of neglect are mentally ill, he said.  Driving Them Away  “Shaming them with a public Internet profile is unlikely
to affect their future behavior,” Pacelle wrote, “except
perhaps to isolate them further from society and promote
increased distrust of authority figures trying to help them.”  People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals supports
registries, said Stephanie Bell, associate director of cruelty
investigations.  “Community members have a right to know when a convicted
animal abuser is in their midst,” Bell said. “People who abuse
animals rarely do so only once.”  Suffolk County’s registry is administered by its Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. Its head, Roy Gross,
said studies show those who abuse animals often hurt people.  “If you had a convicted animal abuser next to you,
wouldn’t you want to know?” he said.  Boston Strangler  A person who abuses or kills animals is five times more
likely to commit violence against people and four times more
likely to commit property crimes, according to a 1997 study by
 Northeastern University  and the Massachusetts SPCA. Serial
killers who abused or killed animals include Boston strangler
Albert Desalvo, “Son of Sam” David Berkowitz and Carroll
Edward Cole.  Gross said Suffolk County, with 1.5 million people in
eastern  Long Island , investigates about 3,000 animal-abuse cases
a year. He estimated a dozen or so will be prosecuted.  Rockland and Albany counties in New York last year enacted
similar registries.  Without national standards, communities will create a
patchwork of laws, said Alison Gianotto, 36, president of Pet-
Abuse.com, an international database of more than 19,000 cases.
Abusers can move easily across jurisdictions to buy or adopt
animals, foiling local or state registries, Gianotto said,  “Legislators want voters to feel good,” she said. “They
just haven’t thought it out well enough.”  Michigan legislator Santana is working with Republican
state Senator Rick Jones on the registry legislation. Santana
said he’s received many e-mails from supporters in both parties.  “There are no Republican dogs or Democratic cats,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing, MI 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Merelman at  