-- Antarctic Ice Loss Mainly From Warm Ocean Currents, Study Shows
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-04-25T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/antarctic-ice-loss-mainly-from-warm-ocean-currents-study-shows.html
The loss of Antarctic ice is mainly
caused by warm ocean currents, according to a finding by British
Antarctic Survey-led researchers that will help gauge how much
the continent will contribute to rising sea levels.  Upwellings of warm water are melting the base of 20 of the
54 ice shelves surrounding the southern continent that were
studied, according to a paper led by the Cambridge-based group
in the journal Nature today. The phenomenon is causing thinning
and acceleration of glaciers, the researchers said. The shelves
are ice masses resting on the sea that are attached to land.  “We’ve looked all around the Antarctic coast and we see a
clear pattern: in all the cases where ice shelves are being
melted by the ocean, the inland glaciers are speeding up,”
Hamish Pritchard, lead author of the paper, said in an e-mailed
statement. “It’s this glacier acceleration that’s responsible
for most of the increase in ice loss from the continent and this
is contributing to sea-level rise.”  Scientists are seeking to quantify how much the ice may
contribute to higher sea-levels after the  United Nations  in 2007
predicted water will rise 18 to 59 centimeters (7 to 23 inches)
this century. Ice in parts of the southern continent is growing
thicker after higher snowfall, while glaciers and ice shelves on
the Antarctic Peninsula, a northerly region pointing toward
 South America , have retreated or broken up in recent years.  Antarctica holds enough ice to raise sea levels by about 57
meters (187 feet), though melting isn’t likely for thousands of
years, according to the UN. Some ice shelves are thinning by a
few meters a year, and glaciers in response are draining
billions of tons of ice into the sea, Pritchard said.  “Most profound contemporary changes to the ice sheets and
their contribution to sea level rise can be attributed to ocean
thermal forcing that is sustained over decades and may already
have triggered a period of unstable glacier retreat,” the
researchers wrote.  They used a laser instrument aboard  NASA ’s ICESat satellite
to gauge the changing ice thickness between October 2003 and
November 2008, taking 4.5 million measurements. The Netherlands’
Utrecht University, the Scripps Institution of Oceanography at
the  University of California  in  San Diego , and Corvallis,
Oregon-based Earth & Space Research contributed to the study.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  