-- Anti-Euro Le Pen’s Gain Spooks Overseas French Investors
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-04-26T10:33:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/anti-euro-le-pen-gain-spooks-overseas-investors-in-french-stocks.html
Pierre Mouton, a  fund manager  at
Notz Stucki & Cie. in Geneva, looks at the rise of anti-
European, anti-austerity parties across the border in  France 
with concern. It may keep him out of the country’s stock market.  “We’re cautious on French stocks,” Mouton, whose firm
manages $7.5 billion and has been reducing its holdings in
France, said in an interview. “If the new president breaks
under pressure from these groups, stocks will suffer. We prefer
not to take that risk.”  Marine Le Pen of the anti-euro, anti-immigrant National
Front won 17.9 percent, while Communist Party-backed Jean-Luc Melenchon took 11.1 percent in the first round of the French
elections on April 22. Socialist  Francois Hollande , who got 28.6
percent, and President  Nicolas Sarkozy , with 27.4 percent, will
square off in the decisive second round on May 6.  The risk for investors is that the strong showing by the
so-called extreme parties may influence the next president,
making him reluctant to embrace policies needed to revamp the
economy. France’s economy is slowing and its joblessness is at a
12-year high. With public debt at more than 85 percent of gross
domestic product, France was stripped this year of its AAA
rating by  Standard & Poor’s .  “What is worrisome is the strength of the extreme parties,
which say ‘no’ to Europe and ‘no’ to austerity,” Amelie de Montchalen, an economist at Exane BNP Paribas in Paris, said in
an interview. “Outside of France, Le Pen is equated with
leaving the euro zone, and Melenchon is seen as nationalizing
banks. That’s not very positive for the stock market.”  Market Woes  France’s  CAC 40 Index (CAC)  is up 1.5 percent this year, lagging
behind the Stoxx Europe 600 Index’s 4.7 percent gain. The French
benchmark was down 0.9 percent to 3,205.88 at 12:26 p.m. in
Paris.  About 42 percent of the CAC 40’s market value is held by
non-residents, according to the Bank of France.  Amandine Gerard, president and fund manager at Financiere
de l’Arc in Aix-en-Provence, France, which oversees $243 million
in assets, said the rise of extreme parties may make stock
market investors pause.  Votes for such parties “can worry international
investors,” she said in an interview. “Whichever candidate is
elected will have to take that into account.”  Philipp Musil, who helps manage about $10 billion at Semper
Constantia Privatbank AG in Vienna, says the rise of such
political parties worries him enough to stay away from French
companies that depend on the domestic market.  Domestic Dependence  “It makes the market more fragile and the market doesn’t
like uncertainty,” he said in a telephone interview. “It will
have a negative impact on French companies with mainly a
domestic market. They will suffer.”  Musil said that while he would invest in French companies
that have a large global presence, he may steer clear of those
with most of their sales at home.  Some investors see the next president having very little
room to maneuver. The ballot’s outcome won’t influence her
investment strategy, said  Valerie Cazaban , a fund manager at
Stratege SA in Paris, with $105 million in assets.  Hollande will beat Sarkozy by 56 percent to 44 percent in
the final round, according to surveys conducted after the first
round by the polling companies CSA and  Harris Interactive .  “The  European Central Bank  has more and more importance
and countries have less room for national sovereignty,” she
said in an interview. “If Hollande would break from the
framework, he would quickly be reminded. I don’t think that
Francois Hollande can revolutionize the French budget.”  Market Test  Meanwhile, Le Pen advocates taking France out of the euro,
tightening borders against immigration and pulling away from
European treaties.  Melenchon’s proposals included a new constitution to found
the Sixth Republic with more parliamentary powers and a 100
percent tax on annual income above 360,000 euros ($472,600).  De Montchalen said it will be important to note how
Hollande and Sarkozy address the ideas of Le Pen and Melenchon
ahead of the legislative elections on June 10 and 17.  The extent to which they are embraced will be a bellwether
of the influence of such parties on economic policy and the
composition of the future government, she wrote in a note with
Chief Economist Pierre-Olivier Beffy.  “The market will test the winner of the election,” said
Notz Stucki’s Mouton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  