-- Hanwha, ESB Back TenKsolar’s Systems for Boosting Solar Power
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-04-25T21:19:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/hanwha-esb-back-tenksolar-s-systems-for-boosting-solar-power.html
South Korean conglomerate  Hanwha
Corp. (000880)  and ESB Novusmodus LP, a fund backed by Irish state
utility Electricity Supply Board, led a $15.5 million Series B
investment in closely held TenKsolar Inc.  Hanwha, which owns a controlling stake in photovoltaic
manufacturer Hanwha SolarOne Co., will help TenKsolar sell solar
panels, it said today in a statement.  The company, based in  Minneapolis , has developed racking
and reflector systems that are incorporated with conventional
solar cells and sold as a package that boosts energy production,
according to TenKsolar Chief Executive Officer Joel Cannon.  Hanwha plans to sell TenKsolar’s products in  Japan , and
both companies are “making plans to roll out joint marketing in
other markets as well,” Cannon said today by telephone.  The cells in conventional solar panels are strung in
series, meaning the total output drops if a single cell is
damaged or isn’t producing optimally, Cannon said. The company
builds its modules in such a way that each cell produces power
independently, which also enables reflectors to be used to boost
output, he said. Using reflected light with conventional solar
panels typically isn’t allowed under warranty due to fire risk,
Cannon said.  Cannon wouldn’t say how much more his company’s panels sell
for than competing products.  “We get this tremendous performance gain because you don’t
have any cell dependencies inside the module, and then when you
add the reflector you get this energy gain,” Cannon said.
“It’s a truly revolutionary system.”  The company has used “a lot” of cells from Hanwha, though
it also has suppliers in  Taiwan  and the U.S., including Suniva
Inc., Cannon said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  