-- Apple Profit Rises 94% on Growing Global IPhone Demand
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-04-25T20:47:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/apple-profit-rises-94-on-growing-global-iphone-demand.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  has its biggest gain in
more than three years after reporting that demand for the iPhone
in  China  fueled a 94 percent surge in quarterly profit. That
eased concerns that had cut shares 12 percent in two weeks.  Net income in the fiscal second quarter climbed to $11.6
billion, or $12.30 a share, as sales rose 59 percent to $39.2
billion, Cupertino, California-based Apple reported yesterday.
Analysts had predicted profit of $10.02 a share on revenue of
$36.9 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Buying by Chinese consumers helped Apple sell a higher-
than-predicted 35.1 million iPhones last quarter and made the
world’s most populous country responsible for 20 percent of
sales, up from 12 percent last year. Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  said there will be “a lot more opportunity” in China as
he introduces the iPad and expands operations there.  “They are truly just beginning to grow in Asia, and China
is possibly their most important market, where they just really
started expanding,” said  Michael Obuchowski , chief investment
officer at First Empire Asset Management in Hauppauge, New York,
which manages about $4.5 billion, including Apple shares. “For
Apple right now, the most important part of thinking about their
business is the international growth.”  Apple rose 8.9 percent to $610 at the close in New York,
for the biggest increase since Nov. 24, 2008.  The company sold 11.8 million units of the iPad, which was
updated last month to include a high-definition screen and
faster processor. Apple has sold 67 million iPads since the
device’s 2010 debut. It took the company 24 years to reach that
milestone with the Mac computer, Cook told analysts yesterday.  Gross Margin  Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg on average predicted Apple
would sell 11.9 million iPads and 31.2 million iPhones.  Apple also benefited from reined-in costs and lower
component prices. Gross margin, the percentage of sales
remaining after deducting costs of production, was 47.4 percent,
compared with 41.4 percent a year earlier.  Before today, the company’s shares had tumbled $75.95 since
a record close of $636.23 on April 9 amid reports that indicated
a possible shortage in key components for its mobile devices and
showed a quarter-over-quarter decline in iPhone sales at
wireless carriers. Some traders took cues from technical
indicators that use historical trends to predict stock moves.  “This report should erase any doubt in investors’ minds
that this company can’t continue to deliver,” said  Jack Ablin ,
chief investment officer of Harris Private Bank in  Chicago ,
which oversees about $60 billion, including Apple shares.  Signs of Recovery  The results added to evidence of a rebound in some pockets
of the economy that buoyed results for other technology
bellwethers. Microsoft Corp., the top software maker, last week
reported better-than-expected corporate purchases of computers,
while Texas Instruments Inc., the biggest maker of analog chips,
this week indicated robust demand for a range of electronics.
International Business Machines Corp, the biggest computer-
services provider, also reported higher profit.  For Apple, China has made up a growing slice of results
since the introduction of the iPhone there in 2009. The most
populous country accounted for $7.9 billion of revenue, Cook
said on the call with analysts. That’s three times the level for
a year earlier, Cook said.  “China has been a very fast-growing region for them,”
said Abhey Lamba, an analyst at Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in
 New York . “There’s more disposable income, strong demand for
high-end products and their penetration has been very low in
that market.”  To ‘Understand China’  Cook visited China last month, meeting with government
officials and touring plants where the company’s products are
built. The visit came just as a labor group said workers at
those facilities, which are operated by Foxconn Technology
Group, were violating local laws for excessive work hours.  Cook, who has vowed to improve working conditions at the
facilities, said Apple and other companies are benefiting from
China’s growing middle class.  “There is tremendous opportunity for companies that
understand China,” Cook said on the call. “We’re doing
everything we can to understand it and serve the market as good
as we can.”  The company is in  talks  to sell the iPhone through China
Mobile Ltd., the country’s largest carrier. The opportunity to
market the iPhone to China Mobile’s more than 600 million
subscribers would give Apple added scope for growth in  Asia .  Apple sold 4 million Mac computers and 7.7 million iPods,
compared with 4.5 million Macs and 7 million iPods projected by
analysts.  Quarterly Forecasts  Apple added to its cash hoard during the quarter. The
company said it now has $110.2 billion in cash and investments
on its balance sheet. Part of that sum will be returned to
investors starting later this year, when Apple plans to start
paying a dividend and buying back shares.  Looking ahead to results for the current quarter, Apple
 forecast  revenue of about $34 billion and profit of $8.68 a
share. That compares with average analysts’ predictions for
sales of $37.5 billion and profit of $9.96 a share.  The results will be lower because Apple doesn’t expect to
sell as many iPhones in the quarter now under way, said  Peter Oppenheimer , Apple’s chief financial officer. Customers often
hold off on purchases of the iPhone in the months before Apple
releases an upgrade. Analysts including Chris Whitmore of
Deutsche Bank AG have predicted that Apple will introduce a new
iteration of the handset later this year.  New Products Coming  Cook, who took over for late co-founder  Steve Jobs  last
year, hinted new products will be released.  “You’re going to see a lot more of the kind of innovation
that only Apple can deliver,” Cook said in a statement.  Cook also discussed one product Apple won’t be making. He
said Apple doesn’t intend to release a hybrid tablet-laptop
computer. By contrast, Microsoft is introducing a new operating
system that will run on smartphones, tablets and personal
computers. Cook said users prefer to have different experiences
on mobile devices and PCs.  “You can converge a toaster and a refrigerator, but those
things are probably not going to be pleasing to the user,” Cook
said.  In China and elsewhere around the world, Apple is in the
midst of a growing rivalry with  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , Asia’s
largest consumer-electronics maker. While Samsung is a supplier
of components for Apple devices, it also is among the biggest
makers of products that run Google Inc.’s Android software.
Earlier this month, Samsung reported profit rose to a quarterly
record of 5.8 trillion won ($5.1 billion).  Dearth of Adjectives  Samsung is one of several companies entangled in patent
litigation with Apple in the U.S.,  Europe  and Asia.  Cook said that while he’d prefer to settle the lawsuits
than battle in court, he didn’t give any details on when such a
deal may be reached.  “We need people to invent their own stuff,” Cook said.  Apple’s results contrast with those of  Research In Motion
Ltd. (RIMM)  and Nokia Oyj, which have cut jobs and reorganized
operations after falling behind in smartphone sales.  Apple’s growth also is bringing more government scrutiny.
The U.S.  Justice Department  is suing Apple for allegedly
colluding with book publishers to raise the price of e-books.
Apple has denied wrongdoing.  Nonetheless, the second-quarter results point to Apple’s
continued leadership in the technology industry, said  Gene Munster , an analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos.  “We’ve run out of adjectives to describe these quarters,”
Munster said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  