-- Arcandor Wins Liability Ruling Against Middelhoff, Former Board
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-04-25T13:14:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/arcandor-wins-liability-ruling-against-middelhoff-former-board.html
Arcandor AG (ARO) ’s insolvency
administrator won a German ruling holding former Chief Executive
Officer  Thomas Middelhoff  and other former management board
members liable for management failures.  While dismissing most of the 175 million-euro ($231
million) suit, the Essen Regional Court said the former
management board members should have stopped or unwound a sale
and lease-back transaction concerning a Wiesbaden department
store. Similar claims regarding four others transactions were
rejected, as was the case against six former supervisory board
members, court spokesman Stephan Hackert said.  “The court didn’t rule on the amount of damages, which
will have to be determined in a separate proceeding,” said
Hackert. An expert hired by Arcandor’s administrator claims that
damage to be between 30 million and 46 million euros, Hackert
said.  Arcandor, the former parent of German department-store
chain Karstadt, filed for insolvency in June 2009. Middelhoff’s
home and office were searched in 2010 as part of a criminal
probe into the company’s demise.  The agreements under which Karstadt sold the five stores
and agreed to later lease them back were closed in 2001 and
2002. The sale prices were too low and the lease prices too
high, Arcandor’s insolvency administrator Gerd Jauch claims.  Middelhoff’s attorney Winfried Holtermueller described the
liability ruling as wrong and said he will appeal. Stopping the
transaction would have cost Arcandor 71 million euros and the
court failed to take that into account.  The case is LG Essen, 41 O 45/10.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons in London at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net  