-- Arch Said to Seek Buyers for Several U.S. Coal Mines
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2012-04-26T20:15:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/arch-said-to-seek-buyers-for-several-u-s-thermal-coal-mines.html
Arch Coal Inc. (ACI) , the fourth-largest
U.S. producer of the fuel, is seeking buyers for several of its
thermal-coal mines in the U.S., which together may fetch $600
million or more, said people with knowledge of the matter.  First-round bids for the mines, located in Kentucky,
Illinois and Utah, are expected to come in late May, said one of
the people, who declined to be named because the process is
private. The mines will probably be sold in separate deals, said
this person.  Financial advisers including Deutsche Bank AG were hired in
recent weeks by St. Louis-based Arch to help sell the mines,
said the people. The mines are attracting interest from private-
equity investors as well as U.S. and foreign coal producers, one
of the people said.  “If you were able to sell thermal mines for that
valuation, it would give a big lift to the whole sector,” said
Kuni Chen, an analyst at CRT Capital Group in  Stamford ,
Connecticut. The assets “may be strategic to certain buyers if
the reserves are contiguous to their mines.”  Arch is among U.S. coal companies to curtail production
this year as some power stations switch to natural gas, which
has fallen to its cheapest in a decade. Arch has cut jobs in
eastern Kentucky and idled mines and as part of its plan to
reduce output by 5 million tons.  Retiring CEO  Steven F. Leer, who’s retiring as chief executive officer
today after leading Arch since it formation in 1997, has
expanded the company’s international sales. The company paid
$3.4 billion for U.S. competitor International Coal Group Inc.
in June to boost output of coal used by steelmakers, which is
more profitable than thermal coal burned by power stations.  Arch rose 0.6 percent to $9.62 at the close in  New York .
The shares have slumped 71 percent in the past 12 months. The
company, which has a BB-  credit rating  from  Standard & Poor’s ,
was placed on CreditWatch with negative implications by S&P
yesterday.  Arch operates 24 mining complexes in eight states,
according to its website. Kim Link, a spokeswoman for Arch,
declined to comment in an e-mail. A spokesman for Deutsche Bank
declined to comment.  The three largest U.S. coal producers ranked by revenue are
 Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) ,  Alpha Natural Resources Inc. (ANR)  and  Consol
Energy Inc. (CNX)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  