-- Arizona’s Immigration Crackdown Gets Support at Top Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-04-25T19:12:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/arizona-illegal-immigrant-crackdown-gets-support-at-top-court.html
U.S. Supreme Court justices
spanning the ideological divide signaled they were prepared to
uphold the core of Arizona’s trailblazing crackdown on illegal
immigrants in what would be a blow to President  Barack Obama .  Both Republican and Democratic appointees, hearing
arguments today in Washington in a case with ramifications for
this year’s elections and for laws across the country, aimed
skeptical questions at U.S. Solicitor General Donald Verrilli as
he argued that the measure would lead to the harassment of U.S.
citizens and legal residents.  “You can see it’s not selling very well,” Justice  Sonia Sotomayor , the first Hispanic named to the high court, told
Verrilli half way through his presentation.  Like the health-care case argued last month, the
immigration dispute pits the Obama administration against
Republican-controlled states over the federal-state balance of
power. The court’s decision, likely to come in June, may affect
laws enacted during the past two years in  Alabama ,  South
Carolina ,  Georgia ,  Utah  and  Indiana .  Both cases have placed the court in the middle of a
campaign.  Mitt Romney , who along with Obama is vying for
Hispanic votes, has taken a tough stance on illegal immigration
in his bid for the Republican presidential nomination even with
a report this week that the wave of illegal immigrants from
 Mexico  has ended as many return to their native country.  Activists on both sides demonstrated outside the court as
the justices heard the case.  Defending the Borders  Inside, court members voiced skepticism about parts of the
Arizona law, including penalties on illegal immigrants who seek
jobs. Still, the justices made clear they see states as having a
role to play in addressing the presence of what the government
has  estimated  is 11.5 million unauthorized aliens in the U.S.  “What does sovereignty mean if it does not include the
ability to defend your borders?” Justice  Antonin Scalia  said
during the 80-minute session, which ran 20 minutes beyond its
scheduled time.  The central legal question is whether the U.S. Immigration
and Nationality Act, which says states may cooperate in
enforcing federal law, pre-empts the  Arizona  law.  The administration sued to challenge four provisions in the
2010 Arizona law, known as S.B. 1070. Probably the measure’s
most contentious part says police officers must check
immigration status when they arrest or stop someone and have
“reasonable suspicion” that the person is in the U.S.
illegally. The disputed provisions haven’t taken effect.  Playing Down Impact  Early on,  Paul Clement , representing Arizona, sought to
minimize the provision’s impact. Answering questions from
Sotomayor, Clement -- who argued against Verrilli in the health-
care case as well -- said if federal officials said they didn’t
want to take custody of an illegal immigrant, Arizona police
officers would have to release the person unless they had a
basis under state law for making an arrest.  That statement set the tone for much of the rest of the
session, undercutting Verrilli’s contention that the law
encroaches on the exclusive federal right to set immigration
policy.  Chief Justice  John Roberts  repeatedly said federal
officials would make the final call about whether a person
should be deported or prosecuted for violating federal law.  “All it does is notify the federal government, ‘Here is
someone who is here illegally,’” Roberts said. “The discretion
to prosecute for federal immigration offenses rests entirely
with the attorney general.”  Don’t Want to Know  Later, Roberts said, “It seems to me that the federal
government just doesn’t want to know who is here illegally or
not.”  Two Democratic appointees -- Sotomayor and Justice  Stephen Breyer  -- joined in that line of questioning. Breyer raised the
possibility of upholding the provision with the understanding
that it wouldn’t cause people to be detained “significantly
longer” than they would have been previously.  “If that were the situation, and we said it had to be the
situation, then what in the federal statute would that conflict
with?” Breyer asked Verrilli.  The Obama administration says the measure would undermine
its efforts to give highest priority to illegal aliens who
threaten public safety and those who belong to gangs that
smuggle other aliens, drugs and weapons.  “These decisions have to be made at the national level,”
Verrilli argued.  ‘Unusual Theory’  Clement said many Arizona police officers already are
routinely checking immigration status when they stop a person or
make an arrest. The new law would simply extend those “ad hoc”
checks into a statewide policy, he said.  “The government’s rather unusual theory that something
that’s OK when done ad hoc becomes pre-empted when it’s
systematic, I think that theory largely refutes itself,”
Clement argued.  One issue not directly before the justices is the
contention that the law will lead to racial profiling by police
officers. That claim is part of a separate lawsuit being waged
by civil rights advocates against the Arizona measure.  ‘Probable Cause’  In addition to the status-check provision, Arizona’s law
would authorize officers to arrest anyone they have “probable
cause” to believe is eligible to be deported.  The law also would bar aliens without proper papers from
seeking or performing work. It would be a state criminal offense
for a foreigner to be in Arizona without correct documentation,
subjecting violators to as much as 30 days in prison.  Roberts suggested he was skeptical about the employment
provision. Federal law punishes employers that hire illegal
aliens rather than focusing on workers seeking jobs.  The Arizona employment provision “does seem to expand
beyond the federal government’s determination about the types of
sanctions that should govern the employment relationship,” he
said.  Verrilli was making his first appearance before the
justices since he argued the health-care case in March, squaring
off again against Clement, the former solicitor general who
represented 26 states challenging the health-care law.  Justice Elena Kagan didn’t take part today’s case. She
played a role in the litigation as Obama’s top Supreme Court
lawyer before her 2010 appointment to the court.  4-4 Split?  Her disqualification creates the possibility that the court
might divide 4-4 on some aspects of the law. That would leave
intact a lower court ruling blocking those provisions, without
setting a nationwide precedent.  Arizona says its 370-mile border with Mexico is the
crossing point for half the nation’s illegal immigrants, giving
it the right to tackle a problem the national government has
failed to address.  Arizona had 360,000 unauthorized immigrants in 2011,
according to the U.S. Homeland Security Department. During the
last four decades, 12 million immigrants came to the U.S. from
Mexico, most illegally, according to a report released April 23
by the Pew Hispanic Center, a nonpartisan research group in
 Washington . Net Mexican migration to the U.S. has now stopped
and may have reversed, the report said.  The court last year upheld a separate Arizona law that
threatens companies with loss of their corporate charters if
they hire illegal immigrants. The 5-3 ruling said a federal law
governing immigrant hiring leaves room for states to impose
their own penalties for non-compliance.  The current case is Arizona v.  United States , 11-182.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  