-- Arizona Immigration Argument May Lead to National ID
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2012-04-25T20:49:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/arizona-immigration-argument-may-lead-to-national-id.html
Can the police stop you and make
you show your papers? In  Europe , the answer has long been yes.  On Wednesday, the U.S. Supreme Court took up the issue --
and from what the justices said at oral argument, it seems the
U.S. might soon be getting more European. Or at least one step
closer to requiring a national ID card.  The Arizona law before the court, S.B. 1070, makes it a
state crime to be an illegal immigrant, and for illegal
immigrants to seek work. It empowers the police to arrest anyone
suspected of committing a crime that would merit deportation,
even if the crime occurred in a different state.  But the law’s most controversial and important provision,
section 2(B), requires  law enforcement  to determine immigration
status whenever officers have a “reasonable suspicion” that
any person with whom they have lawful contact is in the country
illegally.  After Arizona passed the law, the Barack Obama
administration challenged all these provisions before the
federal courts. Civil rights activists believe, reasonably, that
the law could be used to discriminate against Latinos, who are
more likely to look suspiciously like illegal immigrants in the
eyes of the Arizona police.  Yet the  Justice Department  decided to sidestep that racial
issue. Instead, it asserted the inherent federal power to set
law and policy on immigration. It claimed that Arizona was
trying to set up its own policy of “attrition by enforcement”
-- scaring illegal immigrants back across the border to  Mexico ,
or at least to surrounding states. A lower federal court and the
9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals agreed, blocking Arizona from
enforcing the law without waiting to see how it would be applied
in practice.  Risky Strategy  Avoiding the question of discrimination may have been good
politics, but it was a risky legal strategy for the
administration. No one (or at least no one but Justice  Clarence Thomas ) doubts that federal law can implicitly pre-empt an
inconsistent state policy. Arizona, represented by  Paul Clement 
(the conservative hero of last month’s health-care arguments),
maintained before the court that its law is perfectly consistent
with federal immigration law -- it is just taking that law
seriously and giving it bite.  That left Solicitor General Donald Verrilli (who had a
rough time during the health-care argument) to insist that
 Arizona  had crossed the line into inconsistent policy-making.
The trouble with this argument is that the law has not yet been
enforced -- which makes it harder to claim that enforcement of
the Arizona law would lead to inconsistency with federal policy.  To complicate things further, the framers of the
Constitution were not worried about the states over-enforcing
federal law. To the contrary, they feared that states would
ignore laws made by Congress, as they had done under the
Articles of Confederation. The Constitution solved that problem
by making federal law the “supreme law of the land,” binding
on states. To say that states cannot use at least some of their
own discretion in enforcing federal law seems to turn states
rights on its head.  In Wednesday’s argument, the justices understandably
focused on the “papers, please” provision. The government
asserted that the obligatory demand to provide proof of
citizenship conflicted with federal policy not to require such a
demand -- but not that the demand was otherwise
unconstitutional. For his part, Clement argued that the demand
alone could not displace federal law or immigration policy.
Under the Arizona immigration law, any person detained for
failing to produce his papers would be transferred immediately
to federal immigration authorities, who could then make a
decision about whether to deport him.  Real World Scenario  The upshot was that the court never had to confront the
core question of whether there is a right to walk down the
street without being challenged to provide proof of citizenship.
Of course, the Arizona law requires reasonable suspicion before
the demand is made. And Clement claimed in the oral argument
that the law only allows the demand to be made after a stop
based on probable cause.  But what, in the real world, would create a reasonable
suspicion that someone is not American? It can’t be appearance
or language. Americans come in all shapes and sizes, and there
is no legal obligation for Americans to speak or understand
English. In the old war movies, knowing who had won the  World
Series  was proof of being a real American. But that is not
information you wear on your sleeve.  This isn’t some theoretical question. If I can be forced to
prove my citizenship on pain of arrest, I need something to
convince the police that I’m a citizen. If I’m a legal
immigrant, I will own the papers to prove it -- and I will have
to carry them with me everywhere.  But what about citizens who are born in the U.S. but do
something that makes the police reasonably suspect that they are
illegal? What they need is a piece of paper declaring that they
are citizens. A state-issued driver’s license won’t do, because
noncitizens can drive. Anyway, states may have no record of who
is a U.S. citizen. The ID card has to be national, as when we
travel abroad -- which means a passport.  You can’t blame the justices for avoiding such a tough
issue when the government didn’t raise it in the first place.
But if the court holds that Arizona can experiment with
“papers, please,” you should consider renewing your passport
before bringing the family to the Grand Canyon.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Scorpions: The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s
Great Supreme Court Justices,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from Bloomberg View.  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman in Cambridge, Massachusetts, at
 noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 