-- Stocks Advance on Earnings, Fed as Treasuries Trim Drop
-- B y   M i c h a e l   S h a n a h a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-04-25T20:15:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/asian-stocks-gain-on-earnings-cattle-futures-rebound.html
Stocks (MXWD)  rose for a second day as
earnings beat estimates at companies from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  to  Boeing
Co. (BA) , while Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said he
remains prepared to do more to stimulate growth if needed.
Treasuries pared earlier losses and the dollar weakened.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index jumped 1.4 percent to close
at 1,390.69 at 4 p.m. in  New York . The  Nasdaq-100 Index (NDX)  rallied
2.7 percent, the most in 2012, with Apple surging 8.9 percent
for its best gain in more than three years. Ten-year Treasury
note yields added one basis point to 1.99 percent after gaining
six points earlier. The dollar fell versus 13 of 16 major peers.
Cattle rebounded after tumbling yesterday following the first
U.S. case of mad-cow disease in six years.  Apple late yesterday posted earnings that almost doubled,
reflecting growing demand for the iPhone in  China  and helping
the most-valuable company rebound following a 12 percent slide
from its record on April 9. The Fed said policy makers expect
the economy to accelerate gradually, increasing forecasts for
2012 growth and reducing projections for the jobless rate. 
Bernanke said the central bank remains prepared to take 
additional action if needed to boost the economy.  “The Fed is providing an insurance policy to the
economy,” Ann Miletti, senior portfolio manager for Wells Fargo
Advantage Funds in  Menomonee Falls , Wisconsin, said in a
telephone interview. Her firm manages $213 billion. “There’s a
sense that things are improving, yet there’s some instability.
The Fed is saying that it will be there to help keep things
going. Earnings have been strong. The market likes it.”  Fed Projections  Fed policy makers repeated the view that borrowing costs
are likely to remain “exceptionally low” at least through
2014. Fed officials forecast the  unemployment rate  would average
7.8 percent to 8 percent in the final three months of this year
versus a forecast of 8.2 percent to 8.5 percent in January,
according to central tendency estimates. The economy is forecast
to expand at a 2.4 percent to 2.9 percent rate this year,
compared with a previous forecast for 2.2 percent to 2.7
percent.  “We remain prepared to do more as needed to make sure that
this recovery continues and that inflation stays close to
target,” Bernanke said at a press conference today following a
meeting of the  Federal Open Market Committee . Officials raised
forecasts for the inflation rate this year, as measured by the
personal consumption expenditures  index (MXEF) , to 1.9 percent to 2
percent, from 1.4 percent to 1.8 percent. The forecasts reflect
the so-called central tendency, which excludes the three highest
and three lowest projections of 17 policy makers.  Earnings Season  Quarterly earnings-per-share  have risen 11 percent for the
174 companies in the  S&P 500  that reported since April 10, with
per-share results beating analysts’ forecasts by 9.7 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Before the start of the
earnings season, analysts had predicted earnings growth of 0.8
percent.  Boeing Co. rallied 5.3 percent to lead the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  up 89.16 points to 13,090.72. Earnings beat
estimates as the world’s largest aerospace company delivered
more commercial jets while pushing production to record levels.
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  had the biggest drop in the Dow, tumbling 4.6
percent, as a gain in quarterly revenue trailed analysts’
estimates after sales of construction equipment fell in China
and Brazil.   Corning Inc. (GLW) , the largest maker of glass for flat-panel
television sets, and Harley-Davidson Inc., the biggest U.S.
motorcycle maker, also jumped at least 6.2 percent after
releasing results that beat estimates.  “The earnings season is shaping up to be quite a bit
better than expected,” said  Mike Ryan , the New York-based chief
investment strategist at UBS Wealth Management Americas, which
oversees $844 billion. “Remember that the bar was set
incredibly low. Overall however, it is supportive for markets.
What this tells us is that we are in a more sustainable and
durable expansion.”  Durable Goods  Equities advanced even as Commerce Department data showed
bookings for durable goods dropped 4.2 percent, the biggest
decrease since January 2009. Economists forecast a 1.7 percent
decline, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Shipments of non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft,
used in calculating gross domestic product, increased 2.6
percent. The bigger-than-forecast gain in shipments in that
category may prompt some economists to boost estimates for
growth in the first quarter, while the drop in orders means
projections for GDP this quarter may be cut.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  rose 1 percent, extending
yesterday’s 1 percent gain. Electrolux AB climbed 6.5 percent as
the world’s second-biggest appliance maker reported first-
quarter earnings that beat analysts’ estimates after raising
prices in  North America .  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  rallied 3.5 percent and
Temenos Group AG, a Swiss maker of banking software, jumped 19
percent after the companies also reported results.  U.K. Contracts  Benchmark indexes in Germany, Italy and France rose at
least 1.7 percent. The FTSE-100 Index lagged, rising 0.2
percent, after U.K. gross domestic product contracted 0.2
percent from the fourth quarter of 2011, when it shrank 0.3
percent, the Office for National Statistics said. The median
economist estimate in a survey was for an increase of 0.1
percent. A technical recession is defined as two straight
quarters of contraction.  Cattle futures rebounded 0.6 percent to $1.12275 a pound
after falling by the 3-cent exchange limit yesterday. Japan, the
European Union and Taiwan said they’ll continue to import U.S.
beef after a case of mad cow disease was reported in California,
the first in six years. The disease, known as bovine spongiform
encephalopathy, was found in a dairy cow in central California,
John Clifford, the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s chief
veterinarian, said yesterday. Meat from the animal didn’t enter
the food chain, he said.  Oil Supplies  Oil rose 0.6 percent to $104.12 a barrel as the Fed’s
statement overshadowed a U.S. Energy Department report showing
supplies increased 3.98 million barrels to 373 million, the
report showed. They were forecast to grow 2.8 million barrels,
according to the median of 11 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg
survey. Oil, which rallied as much as 0.9 percent earlier today,
also retreated from its high of the session after Iran’s envoy
in Moscow said his country is considering a Russian proposal to
halt the expansion of its atomic program to avert new sanctions.  Thirty-year Treasury bonds also declined, sending yields up
two basis points to 3.15 percent. Two-year yields were little
changed at 0.27 percent.  Treasury Auction  The U.S. sold $35 billion in five-year notes at higher-
than-average demand. The notes drew a yield of 0.887 percent,
compared with a forecast of 0.905 percent in a Bloomberg News
survey of 11 of the Fed’s primary dealers. The bid-to-cover
ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total bids with the
amount of securities offered, was 3.09, compared with an average
of 2.88 for the previous 10 sales.  Among European bond markets, Germany’s 10-year rate
increased four basis points to 1.74 percent and U.K. gilt yields
rose 4.5 points to 2.14 percent. Rates on Spanish, Italian and
Portuguese debt decreased.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index added 0.1 percent as the
Shanghai Composite gauge jumped 0.8 percent and Taiwan  TWSE (TWSE) 
added 0.9 percent. Among eastern European markets, Hungary’s BUX
index rallied 4.2 percent to lead gains and the forint rose
against all 16 major peers after the nation won the go-ahead to
pursue a financial aid package.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Shanahan in London at 
 mshanahan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  