-- AstraZeneca Amarin-to-Forest Deal Seen on Lost Patents: Real M&A
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i ,   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-04-25T13:56:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/astrazeneca-amarin-to-forest-deal-seen-on-lost-patents-real-m-a.html
AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s need to restock
its drug pipeline and boost the lowest valuation in the
pharmaceutical industry is turning companies from  Amarin Corp. (AMRN) 
to  Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX)  into takeover candidates.  The U.K.’s second-biggest drugmaker, which agreed this week
to buy  Ardea Biosciences Inc. (RDEA) , is in talks with other companies
about possible deals as it faces increasing generic competition,
AstraZeneca’s head of business development said. The London-
based maker of Seroquel and Nexium is set to lose patent
protection by 2014 on drugs representing more than 40 percent of
last year’s sales, and analysts are already projecting
AstraZeneca will suffer a 30 percent  drop in profit  this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  AstraZeneca, which has a market value of $58 billion, is
searching for more deals as investors pay 6.3 times earnings to
own its shares, the lowest multiple for any large pharmaceutical
company, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Buying Amarin would
give AstraZeneca potential revenue from a new heart medication
that’s close to gaining U.S. approval, according to Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. Forest’s  products  would fit well with
AstraZeneca’s existing offerings, said Liberum Capital Ltd.  The company “is certainly under pressure to take more
action,”  Seamus Fernandez , an analyst with Leerink Swann LLC in
 Boston , said in a telephone interview. AstraZeneca “would
benefit from doing more M&A given the fact that they have a
sustained sequential cliff of patents and their profitability is
going to be under pressure,” he said.  Billion-Dollar Deal  AstraZeneca’s planned $1.26 billion purchase of Ardea, a
San Diego-based maker of experimental gout and cancer
treatments, marks its first acquisition of more than $1 billion
since the $14.7 billion takeover of MedImmune Inc. in 2007, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The company is also speaking with several other companies
about possible licensing accords and acquisitions, Shaun Grady,
head of business development, said in a phone interview after
the Ardea deal was disclosed April 23. It would consider buying
late-stage assets outside of its research and development focus
on cancer, diabetes and gastrointestinal ailments, Grady said.  AstraZeneca will probably pursue additional acquisitions
valued at about $5 billion to replenish its drug pipeline and
make up for lost sales as its patents expire,  Tim Anderson , a
New York-based analyst at Bernstein, said in a telephone
interview.  “The ideal is to find a company that has both revenues and
some stuff in the pipeline,” Anderson said.  Possible Candidates  Amarin, a Dublin-based biotechnology company that’s
developing a cholesterol drug; Forest, the New York-based maker
of the Alzheimer’s treatment Namenda and other medications, and
San Diego-based  Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMLN) , which develops
drugs for diabetes, are all possible candidates, he said.  Amarin shares rose 1.1 percent to $9.86 at 9:46 a.m. in New
York. Forest added 1 percent to $33.86, and Amylin gained 1.3
percent to $25.89.  When asked about potential purchases yesterday,  Sarah Lindgreen , a spokeswoman at AstraZeneca, said the company would
be open to conversations with “lots of” businesses.  “Our strategy includes looking for assets that fit with
our business and that are in line with our strategy, but in
terms of specifics we don’t comment,” she said.  AstraZeneca’s sales and profits are projected to fall as
two of its best-selling drugs, Seroquel for schizophrenia and
ulcer medication Nexium, lose patent protection by 2014.
Seroquel and Nexium alone  generated  about $10.3 billion of sales
last year, or about 30 percent of the company’s total, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Crestor, its top seller with $6.6
billion in 2011 sales, must now contend with increased
competition from a generic version of Pfizer Inc.’s Lipitor,
which entered the market last year.  ‘Worst Profile’  Profit is projected to drop this year for the first time
since 2007,  analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg show, amid
setbacks in its  drug development , including the failure or delay
of experimental treatments for diabetes, ovarian cancer and
severe depression.  “AstraZeneca’s probably got one of the worst profiles out
of all the pharmaceutical companies,” said  Kevin Shacknofsky ,
who helps manage about $5 billion for Alpine  Mutual Funds  in
Purchase, New York. “A lot of the revenue is coming off patent
and they don’t have anything in the pipeline because research
and development has been very unsuccessful.”  The company’s stock traded at 2,837.5 pence ($46)
yesterday, about 6.3 times last year’s earnings, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s less than half the average of
15.2 times profit for 28 large pharmaceutical companies
worldwide, the data show.  Shares of AstraZeneca fell 10.5 pence to 2,827 pence today.  Action Needed  “There’s a reason why the valuation is low,” Naresh Chouhan, a London-based analyst at  Liberum Capital , said in a
telephone interview. “It’s because earnings are declining and
there’s no hope that it’s going to improve unless they do
something else.”  AstraZeneca could buy Amarin and benefit from future sales
of the $1.3 billion company’s cholesterol medicine AMR101, which
is now under review by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration,
Bernstein’s Anderson said.  “This would be very much a complementary product,” he
said. “It’s cardiovascular and that’s the key area for Astra.”  David Schull, an outside spokesman for Amarin, declined to
comment on takeover speculation.  ‘Double Whammy’  A bigger target such as New York-based Forest could also be
a good fit for AstraZeneca, said Liberum Capital’s Chouhan and
Corey Davis, a New York-based analyst for Jefferies Group Inc.  Forest, valued at $8.9 billion as of yesterday’s close, is
an attractive target for AstraZeneca because the companies
overlap in researching and developing treatments for infections
as well as respiratory and central nervous system diseases,
Chouhan said.  The company has five medications in their third stage of
 development . It also filed new drug applications for treatments
targeting pulmonary disease and irritable bowel syndrome, which
may generate more than $1.2 billion in annual revenue in 2018
for Forest, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “With more muscle, these products can be even bigger,”
Davis said in a phone interview. “You get the double whammy of
cutting the synergies from the acquisition, but also boosting
the revenue estimates under a different platform.”  Davis said it would be “unreasonable” for Forest to sell
for any anything less than $50 a share, a premium of about 50
percent to yesterday’s closing price of $33.54.  Amylin Attraction  Frank Murdolo, a spokesman for Forest, didn’t return a
phone call and e-mail seeking comment on whether it would be
willing to sell itself to AstraZeneca.  Amylin, with its injectable diabetes treatments, would also
be an attractive target for AstraZeneca as the number of people
suffering from the disease rises, said Scott Goginsky, a
research analyst and money manager at Milford, Pennsylvania-
based Biondo Investment Advisors LLC.  Amylin won regulatory approval in January for Bydureon, the
once-a-week formulation of its Byetta drug, a twice-daily shot
that was approved by the FDA in 2005. Revenue from the drugs may
reach at least $1.5 billion, according to  Ian Somaiya , a New
York-based analyst for Piper Jaffray Cos.  While Amylin has reported losses since at least 1990, it
would be a profitable business if it were acquired by a larger
pharmaceutical company such as AstraZeneca, Goginsky, whose firm
oversees $450 million and owns shares of Amylin in its  Biondo
Focus Fund (BFONX) , said in a telephone interview.  Rejecting Bristol-Myers  “Amylin is probably at the top of the list of potential
buyouts,” he said. “For someone to come in and buy them and
give them the needed scale and get rid of the redundant costs
would probably be the best move.”  The company rejected a $22-a-share unsolicited bid from
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. in February, people familiar with the
discussions, who declined to be identified because the talks
were private, said last month. Amylin is now seeking a buyer,
people with knowledge of the matter said this week.  Biondo Investment’s Goginsky said Amylin could fetch $32 to
$35 a share in a takeover, or as much as a 37 percent premium to
yesterday’s closing price of $25.55.  Alice Izzo, a spokeswoman for Amylin, said the company
doesn’t comment on speculation, when asked whether it has been
approached by AstraZeneca or is seeking buyers.  Instead of pursuing a deal, AstraZeneca may itself become a
target because of its low valuation, according to Gbola Amusa,
an analyst at UBS AG in  London . An acquirer could unleash up to
$53 billion of value by permanently shutting down AstraZeneca’s
research and development efforts, Amusa wrote in an April 12
note.  Still, that would be a $58 billion purchase, without
accounting for any potential premium.  Many big pharmaceutical companies are facing lost revenue
from expiring drug patents and are looking to takeovers as a way
to help fill in pipeline gaps, Bernstein’s Anderson said.  “AstraZeneca’s need just happens to be a little more
substantial and acute than the other companies” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in  New York  at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Connolly in  Frankfurt  at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at +33-1-5530-6277 or  pserafino@bloomberg.net . 