-- Matthew Broderick Lumbers Through Gershwins’ ‘Nice Work’
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-04-25T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/matthew-broderick-lumbers-through-gershwins-nice-work-.html
“Nice Work If You Can Get It,”
which stars  Matthew Broderick  and Kelli O’Hara, isn’t nearly as
self-important and ambitious a disappointment as  “The
Gershwins’ Porgy and Bess.”  The show, drawing hither and yon from the Gershwin
songbook, demonstrates how hard it is to create the illusion of
effortless whimsy.  A new book by Joe DiPietro pays heavy-handed tribute to the
flimsy plots that Guy Bolton and P.G. Wodehouse once devised for
George and Ira to showcase their sublime ditties.  The result is mostly a flop-sweat inducing affair. However
appealing Broderick and O’Hara are individually, as romantic
leads, they’re weak sparks on damp leaves.  Fortunately, a pair of first-rate second bananas -- Judy
Kaye and Michael McGrath -- partly salvage this misguided
enterprise.  Set during the Prohibition, “Nice Work” has the requisite
elements: Jimmy Winter, an aimless scion under the thumb of his
tyrannical mother and betrothed to a society girl, falls for
Billie Bendix, a spirited working-class girl.  A Greek chorus of statuesque chorines streams out of
cramped places to serenade them as they court. This will all be
familiar from more successful Broadway “revisals” like “Crazy
for You” and “My One and Only.”  Beach Cottage  The action unfolds primarily in Jimmy’s 47-room Long Island
“beach cottage,” where Billie and her gang of bootleggers have
stashed their contraband.  Jimmy (Broderick) shows up unexpectedly with soon-to-be
wife number four (Jennifer Laura Thompson), an Isadora Duncan-
like dancer whose father is a senator. But Billie (O’Hara)
catches his eye and soon they’re crooning the title song (far 
too early in the show, by the way).  There will of course be plenty of silly obstacles along
their way to matrimonial bliss.  Most of the fun is provided by McGrath, as a snappish gang-
member unhappily put to work as a butler on the estate, and Kaye
as the senator’s Temperance-spouting sister. They do a divine
duet that pairs “By Strauss” and “Sweet and Lowdown.” The
unsinkable Estelle Parsons makes a delightful last-minute
appearance as Jimmy’s mother.  Earthbound  Broderick is too long in the tooth to be relying on the
boyishness that once was his signature quality, and too
earthbound in his dancing and singing to put an audience, let
alone his partner, at ease.  Thus abandoned, O’Hara can do little more than plaster a
smile on her face and plow on through.  They do well by “Will You Remember Me?” from 1924’s
“Lady Be Good,” though less so by such standards as “Let’s
Call the Whole Thing Off” and “But Not For Me.”  In such a show nearly everyone’s work is seen in an
unflattering light. Martin Pakledinaz’s costumes are unpretty;
Derek McLane’s sets are just serviceable; only Peter Kaczorowski’s lighting is better than that.  I did enjoy Bill Elliott’s brisk, brassy orchestrations.  In the end, though, director/choreographer Kathleen
Marshall couldn’t overcome the fatal combination of ill-matched
lovers and creaky machinery. George and Ira will undoubtedly
survive.  At the Imperial Theatre, 249 W. 45th St. Information: +1-
212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com . Rating: *1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include  Greg Evans  on  television 
and Ryan Sutton on  restaurants .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 