-- Kiwi Advances Versus Aussie on Prospects of RBA Rate Cut
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-04-26T06:41:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/aussie-dollar-remains-higher-n-z-swaps-drop-after-rbnz-meeting.html
New Zealand ’s dollar strengthened
against its Australian counterpart on prospects the bigger
nation’s central bank will cut interest rates next month.  The so-called kiwi climbed against all of its 16 major
peers after the  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand left the benchmark
rate unchanged, citing benign inflation. The Australian
currency, nicknamed the Aussie, advanced against the  U.S. dollar 
after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the Fed
stands ready to introduce more stimulus measures if necessary.  “Compared to the Aussie, we’re seeing a bit of
resilience” in the kiwi, said Lee Sue Ann, a Treasury economist
at  United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB)  in Singapore. Unlike the Reserve
Bank of  Australia , which is “looking at rate cuts, in New
Zealand, we’re looking for a rate hold.”  The New Zealand currency gained 0.3 percent to NZ$1.2690
per Australian dollar as of 4:24 p.m. in Sydney after having
lost 0.4 percent in the past three days. It climbed 0.6 percent
to 81.86 U.S. cents. The Aussie added 0.3 percent to $1.0386.
Two-year  swap rates  in the smaller nation slid as much as 9.7
basis points to 2.7584 percent, the lowest since Feb. 2.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares advanced 0.5 percent,
boosting the relative allure of higher-yielding currencies.  The RBNZ left its official cash rate at 2.5 percent at a
policy meeting today.  “The New Zealand dollar has stayed elevated despite recent
falls in commodity prices,” Governor Alan Bollard said in a
statement. “Should the  exchange rate  remain strong without
anything else changing, the bank would need to reassess the
outlook for monetary policy settings.”  RBA Outlook  New Zealand’s dollar has gained 3 percent this year, the
best performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The Aussie
has lost 0.9 percent.  “Today’s comments suggest that the RBNZ may now be
comfortable with a strong New Zealand dollar, should N.Z.
commodity prices recover and domestic growth pick up,” Hamish Pepper and Olivier Desbarres, currency strategists in  Singapore 
at Barclays Plc, wrote in a research note.  Traders are betting the Reserve Bank of Australia will
definitely cut its benchmark rate from 4.25 percent at its next
meeting on May 1, according to a Credit Suisse Group AG  gauge 
based on swaps.  An index of Australian leading economic indicators was
unchanged in February after gaining 1 percent the prior month,
the New York-based Conference Board said today.  Fed Policy  Fed policy makers upgraded their U.S.  growth projection 
this year while repeating their view that borrowing costs are
likely to remain “exceptionally low” at least through late
2014. They now forecast the economy will grow as much as 2.9
percent, compared with a January estimate of 2.7 percent.  “We remain prepared to do more as needed to make sure that
this recovery continues and that inflation stays close to
target,” Bernanke said at a press conference following a two-
day meeting of the  Federal Open Market Committee .  The central bank bought $2.3 trillion of bonds in two
rounds of so-called quantitative easing between December 2008
and June 2011. It has kept its benchmark  interest rate  at zero
to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  A third round of quantitative easing is “on the table,”
said  Imre Speizer , a strategist in Auckland at  Westpac Banking
Corp. (WBC) , Australia’s second-largest lender. “That’s a positive”
for the Aussie and kiwi, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  