-- Bawag Bankers Who Lost Billions Begin Austrian Retrial
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-04-25T11:20:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/austria-starts-retrial-of-bawag-psk-bankers-who-lost-billions.html
Fund manager Wolfgang Floettl and
others who helped run up as much as 1.7 billion euros ($2.25
billion) of losses at  Austria ’s Bawag PSK Bank AG today face
retrial in Austria’s biggest ever white-collar crime case.  Floettl, 56, and seven other men, including Bawag managers,
supervisory board members and one of its auditors, were granted
a new trial by Austria’s highest court in 2010. Floettl, who is
married to a granddaughter of former U.S. President Dwight Eisenhower, had been found guilty of misuse of funds in the
first trial against the group in 2008. The overturned verdicts
against the others included fraud and false accounting,
depending on their roles in the losses.  “The defendants sent millions of dollars on a trip, and
all of them were lost,” chief prosecutor Sonja Herbst told the
court, led by Judge Christian Boehm. “In the end, Bawag was on
the brink of ruin.”  Herbst said that the high court rejected the original
judge’s findings mainly based on the defendants’ intent, and
that this would be the focus of the retrial. The retrial is
preliminarily scheduled to last 20 days.  Floettl had run up the losses for Bawag, which was then
owned by Austria’s trade union federation, from the late 1990s,
mostly with wrong-way bets on the Japanese yen. Floettl’s
acquittal on part of the charges had been affirmed by the high
court when it granted the retrial.  The losses weren’t discovered until U.S. futures broker
Refco Inc. collapsed into bankruptcy in 2006. Their discovery
eventually forced the union to sell Bawag to private equity firm
Cerberus Capital Management LP in 2007.  Former Bawag Chief Executive Officer Helmut Elsner, 76, was
already sentenced to 10 years in jail, the harshest possible
punishment for the crimes of which he was already convicted.
While prosecutors aren’t retrying his case, he will attend the
retrial because Bawag is trying to claw back a one-time pension
payment he received when he retired.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  