-- Austria Injects $1.3 Billion Into KA Finanz on Greek Losses
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-04-25T14:12:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/austria-injects-1-3-billion-into-ka-finanz-on-greek-losses-1-.html
Austria  injected 998 million euros
($1.3 billion) into nationalized KA Finanz AG after the lender
lost more than 1 billion euros on its bonds and credit-default
swaps in  Greece ’s debt restructuring.  KA Finanz, whose predecessor, Kommunalkredit Austria AG,
was nationalized in 2008, received the funds after canceling its
share and non-voting capital, the company said in a statement
today, causing a loss for its previous owners,  Oesterreichische
Volksbanken AG (VBPS)  and  Dexia SA. (DEXB)  Austria also provided an asset
guarantee to narrow the Vienna-based lender’s 2011 loss.  “The portfolio of KA Finanz with a 76.6 percent share of
European risks depends significantly on the stability of
European financial markets,” KA Finanz said in the statement.
“The 2011 business year was characterized by the turmoil on
euro-area financial markets and the Greek debt restructuring.”  KA Finanz is the so-called bad bank of Kommunalkredit,
which Austria took over when the company was near collapse after
the Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. insolvency in 2008. While
Kommunalkredit continues as a municipal lender and is being
privatized, KA Finanz took on securities, loans and CDS that
aren’t part of that main business and is winding down those
assets.  The biggest part of the capital KA Finanz is canceling is
434 million euros of so-called participation capital, it said in
the statement. Dexia and Volksbanken provided about 280 million
euros of that, according to KA Finanz’s  2009 annual report .  Dexia Loss  The capital cut together with a shareholder contribution by
Austria and the guarantee will help clear KA Finanz’s balance
sheet of the losses made in the Greek debt swap. Its remaining
net loss after those measures was 534.4 million euros, it said
in the statement.  Under the 2008 bailout agreement, Volksbanken and Dexia
sold their stakes in Kommunalkredit to Austria for a nominal 1
euro and turned 372 million euros of loans they had given to
Kommunalkredit into participation capital, which is equivalent
to equity. When the bank was split into Kommunalkredit and KA
Finanz, Dexia ended up with about 150 million euros of
participation capital in KA Finanz, while Volksbanken holds
about 130 million euros. Volksbanken wrote off that investment
in its 2011 results.  KA Finanz has reduced its risks, including the assets it
took over from Kommunalkredit and the debt it guaranteed by
writing CDSs, to 17.7 billion euros by the end of March from
21.3 billion euros at the end of June 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  