-- AutoNation: Carmakers Confirm Production Amid Resin Issue
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-04-25T20:18:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/autonation-says-carmakers-confirming-output-amid-resin-shortage.html
AutoNation Inc. (AN) , the largest U.S.
retailer of new vehicles, reported quarterly profit that beat
analysts’ estimates and said automakers expect to avoid losing
output amid a shortage of resin used in fuel and brake parts.  First-quarter net income rose to $73 million from $69.4
million a year earlier, the  Fort Lauderdale , Florida-based
company said today in a statement. Profit from continuing
operations rose to 56 cents a share, topping the 53-cent average
 estimate  of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales rose 10
percent to $3.66 billion.  Automakers see the shortage of the resin PA-12, also called
Nylon-12, as “nothing like” the challenge of last year’s
tsunami in  Japan  and floods in Thailand that curbed production,
said  Mike Jackson , AutoNation’s chief executive officer. The
retailer boosted prices and used-vehicle sales last year as the
natural disasters limited shipments from  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and
Honda Motor Co.  “Production for the next four to six weeks has all been
confirmed by the various manufacturers, and they’ve told us that
they will find solutions for the period beyond that,” Jackson
said today in a phone interview. “Everything’s smooth sailing.
If there’s a moment of truth it would be in four to six weeks
when they can’t confirm production schedules.”  Boosting Outlook  AutoNation forecasts U.S. light-vehicle sales will be
“mid-14 million units” for the industry this year, according
to today’s statement, up from an estimate of about 14 million
given Jan. 26. Industrywide deliveries were 12.8 million in
2011, according to Autodata Corp., a  Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-
based researcher.  Manufacturers including automakers  General Motors Co. (GM) ,
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and Chrysler Group LLC, and
motorcycle maker  Harley-Davidson (HOG)  Inc. drafted a plan on April 23
to expedite their parts-validation processes to speed the use of
alternatives to counter the resin shortage. A follow-up meeting
to approve the plan is scheduled for April 30, according to the
Automotive Industry Action Group.  Harley-Davidson has a few parts that use the nylon in short
supply, Chief Executive Officer Keith Wandell said in an
interview. The Milwaukee-based company doesn’t anticipate cuts
to production, he said.  Resin is in short supply after the March 31 explosion at
chemical maker Evonik Industries AG, which halved global
capacity to make Nylon-12. Evonik’s Marl,  Germany , factory made
a base ingredient used in the resin called cyclododecatriene, or
CDT, and supplied the material to other makers of Nylon-12
including France’s  Arkema SA. (AKE)  Switzerland’s  Ems-Chemie Holding
AG (EMSN)  and Japan’s  Ube Industries Ltd. (4208)  also produce Nylon-12.  AutoNation fell 1 percent to $33.23 at the close in  New
York . The shares have slid 9.9 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  