-- May Cow Case May Pose No Threat to U.S. Feed-Crop Demand
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-04-25T09:13:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/may-cow-case-may-pose-no-threat-to-u-s-feed-crop-demand.html
The first U.S. case of mad cow
disease in six years may not disrupt the nation’s corn and
soybean exports because global demand for crops used as
livestock feed is surging, said  Roy Huckabay , an executive vice
president at Chicago agriculture broker Linn Group.  “Mad cow will have little impact on domestic feed
demand,” Huckabay said. “Drought in  South America  is boosting
demand for U.S. soybeans and soybean meal.  China  is buying U.S.
corn, and that is the tip of an iceberg of new demand. China
will buy 10 million metric tons of corn this calendar year, up
from 5 million currently on the export books.”  A dairy cow at a rendering plant in  California  was
identified by a routine test for the brain-wasting disease,
known as bovine spongiform encephalopathy, the government said.
Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack said in a statement that the
animal didn’t enter the human food chain and there is “no
reason to believe” other cattle are affected.  Corn and soybeans from the U.S., the world’s largest
producer of both crops, are used mostly for feed, food and
biofuels. Record global corn crops have failed to meet demand
for three straight years, reducing stockpiles to the lowest
since 2007, U.S. Department of Agriculture data show. Global
inventories of soybeans will fall 20 percent before the next
harvest, the biggest drop since 1996, the USDA estimates.  “The discovery of the disease means that the surveillance
process is working, and that means very limited impact on corn
or soybean demand,”  Steve Nicholson , the chief economist for
International Food Products Corp. in Fenton,  Missouri , said in a
telephone interview. “The global demand for food, especially
from China, is not going to slow, even if the world economy
continues to struggle.”  Temporary Losses  Before yesterday, there were three confirmed cases of BSE
in the U.S., including a Canadian-born cow in 2003 in Washington
State. Each time, corn and soybeans prices fell temporarily
before regaining losses within several days, said William Tierney, the chief economist for AgResource Co. in Chicago.  Soybeans for July delivery rose 1.2 percent to $14.825 a
bushel today, the highest for the most active contract in more
than three years, as a freeze threatened the Argentine crop.
July corn gained 0.4 percent to $6.105 a bushel in  Chicago .  U.S. corn  inventories  on March 1 slumped to the lowest for
that time of year since 2004, the USDA said March 30. The
agency’s estimate of consumption in the three months ended Feb.
29 unexpectedly rose 3.1 percent to a record 3.64 billion
bushels. Reserves before the start of the harvest this year will
fall to the lowest since 1996.  Cash Premium  July corn in Chicago traded at a 67.5-cent premium to
December futures today, a sign of tighter domestic inventories.  In Decatur,  Illinois , a corn-processing hub that is
headquarters to  Archer Daniels Midland Co. (ADM) , buyers paid an
average premium of 27 cents a bushel above the Chicago futures
price to take delivery of corn in April, the most in at least
four years, data compiled by Bloomberg show. A year earlier,
they were paying a premium of 3.6 cents.  “The strong cash basis and inverted  futures markets  are
signs that corn supplies are extremely tight and demand has not
slowed from exporters, livestock producers and ethanol
producers,” Tierney said.  Tightening global supplies will drive prices in the next
several months, he said. “China is buying both corn and
soybeans.”  Corn will remain supported on speculation that China, the
world’s biggest grower after the U.S., is increasing purchases
to build state reserves, Linn Group’s Huckabay said.  U.S. exporters sold 480,000 metric tons of corn to unknown
destinations, the USDA said yesterday. China may have purchased
as much as 1 million tons last week to increase stockpiles,
researcher Grain.gov.cn said this week. The cost of importing
U.S. corn on April 19 fell to the lowest this month, according
to Shanghai JC Intelligence Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  