-- Bayern Munich Wins Shootout to Reach Champions League Final
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-04-25T22:07:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/bayern-munich-beats-real-madrid-in-champions-league-shootout.html
Bayern Munich  beat Real Madrid 3-1
in a penalty shootout to advance to the Champions League soccer
final against Chelsea.  Goalkeeper  Manuel Neuer  made two saves and David Alaba,
 Mario Gomez  and Bastian Schweinsteiger converted their penalty
kicks at Madrid’s Bernabeu Stadium last night to send Bayern to
the final for the second time in three seasons.  Real forced extra time and the shootout with a 2-1 victory
that left the teams tied 3-3 over two games. Cristiano Ronaldo
scored twice for Real and Arjen Robben had the Bayern goal.  Bayern has won Europe’s elite club competition four times
and will be making its ninth appearance in the final. Real was
trying to reach the title game for the first time since winning
the last of its record nine European titles in 2002.  “It was a big blow for us,” Real goalkeeper Iker Casillas
said on the UEFA website. “Penalties are always a lottery. We
played well, but Bayern are a great team.”  Bayern will face Chelsea, which eliminated defending
champion Barcelona two nights ago, in the May 19 game at
Munich’s Allianz Arena. Bayern is the first team to play a
 Champions League  final in its home stadium.  Alaba and Gomez scored with Bayern’s first two attempts in
the shootout, while Neuer made saves against Ronaldo and Kaka.
Real’s Casillas stopped the next two shots by the German team,
while  Xabi Alonso  converted for the home side.  Real’s  Sergio Ramos  then sent his shot over the goal,
leaving Schweinsteiger to score and clinch Bayern’s victory.  Trailing 2-1 from last week’s first game in Germany, Real
took the lead in the sixth minute on Ronaldo’s penalty kick
after a handball against Alaba. Ronaldo added his second goal
eight minutes later to give Real the lead in the series.  Robben then scored with a penalty kick in the 27th minute,
after Gomez was taken down by Pepe, to leave the teams tied 3-3
on aggregate.  The loss denies Real manager  Jose Mourinho  a chance to face
former club Chelsea. Mourinho was attempting to take his third
team to the final, after winning the tournament with Porto in
2004 and Inter Milan in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 