-- LBBW’s First-Quarter Pretax Declines to 150 Million Euros
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2012-04-25T11:51:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/lbbw-says-first-quarter-pretax-profit-declines-to-eu150-million.html
Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg,
Germany’s biggest state-owned lender, posted a 67 percent fall
in first-quarter pretax profit after one-time gains on
investments weren’t repeated.  Pretax profit fell to 150 million euros ($198 million) from
about 455 million euros a year earlier, the Stuttgart-based
company said in a  statement  today. Last year the bank was helped
by about 200 million euros of  valuation gains .  The lender had a “satisfactory” start this year and
sticks to its target to increase its earnings this year if there
are no “dramatic dislocations” in  capital markets , Chief
Executive Officer Hans-Joerg Vetter said at a press conference
in Stuttgart today.  LBBW said last month it returned to an annual profit of 87
million euros in 2011 as reduced provisions for risky loans
helped snap three years of losses. LBBW booked charges of about
940 million euros related to the sovereign-debt crisis last
year. Earnings of more than 500 million euros could be realistic
for LBBW once the restructuring is completed, Vetter said.  Job Cuts  As part of a restructuring agreement reached with the
 European Commission , the lender is cutting about 2,500 jobs by
2013 and agreed this year to sell its LBBW Immobilien real
estate unit to a group led by  Patrizia Immobilien AG (P1Z)  for 1.44
billion euros.  “We aim to complete the job reduction by a large extent
this year,” Vetter said today. The lender has cut 2,000
positions so far. Of planned cost reductions of about 700
million euros by 2016, 380 million euros have already been
achieved, Vetter said.  Talks with LBBW’s owners about a conversion of capital
instruments to make them compliant with Basel III rules for
banks are ongoing and are expected to be resolved in summer,
Vetter said, adding that “he doesn’t see a need to raise
additional capital.”  Bayerische Landesbank , Germany’s second-biggest state-owned
lender, said last month that net income declined 84 percent to
104 million euros in 2011 because of a loss at its Hungarian MKB
Bank subsidiary. BayernLB is the last of  Germany ’s so-called
Landesbanken to await a verdict from European Commission on
conditions for its 2008 bailout by the German state of Bavaria.  “We want to expand our corporate banking business in
Bavaria and North-Rhine Westfalia and our business relationships
with selected large corporations in German speaking countries,”
Vetter said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  