-- Bernanke Takes On Krugman’s Criticism Ignoring Own Advice
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-04-26T14:28:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/bernanke-rejects-criticism-he-ignores-his-own-policy-advice.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  took on Nobel prize-winning economist Paul Krugman
yesterday and called his advice to reduce unemployment by
boosting inflation “reckless.”  “The question is, does it make sense to actively seek a
higher inflation rate in order to achieve” a slightly faster
reduction in the  unemployment rate , Bernanke said yesterday to
reporters after a Federal Open Market Committee meeting. “The
view of the committee is that that would be very reckless.”  Krugman, whom Bernanke hired at  Princeton University  in
2000 when he was chairman of the economics department, said in a
New York Times Magazine article that the Fed should raise its 2
percent inflation target to cut unemployment. Such a policy
shift would align with Bernanke’s comment in 2000 that the  Bank
of Japan (8301)  should pursue faster inflation to escape deflation, he
said. Japan’s consumer prices fell 0.2 percent that year.  “While the Fed went to great lengths to rescue the
financial system, it has done far less to rescue workers,”
Krugman wrote. “Higher expected inflation would aid an
economy” because it would persuade investors and businesses
“that sitting on cash is a bad idea,” Krugman said.  Bernanke, during yesterday’s press conference in
Washington, denied that the FOMC’s policy contradicts his prior
academic work. The chairman spoke in response to a reporter’s
question referring to Krugman’s story, titled “Earth to  Ben
Bernanke ,” published April 24. The article cited “the
divergence between what Professor Bernanke advocated and what
Chairman Bernanke has actually done.”  ‘Completely Consistent’  “So there’s this view circulating that the views I
expressed about 15 years ago on the Bank of  Japan  are somehow
inconsistent with our current policies,” Bernanke said. “That
is absolutely incorrect. My views and our policies today are
completely consistent with the views that I held at that time.”  Krugman didn’t respond to telephone and e-mail messages to
his publicist, Sarah Fogarty.  Bernanke said the main difference between Japan’s economic
slump 15 years ago and the U.S. today is that Japan was in
deflation and the world’s largest economy isn’t, with an
inflation rate that’s close to the Fed’s objective.  The U.S. today doesn’t face a deflation threat, in part
because the Fed expanded its balance sheet to  $2.88 trillion 
through $2.3 trillion in bond purchases, Bernanke said. The FOMC
yesterday raised its estimate for the personal consumption
expenditures price index for this year to 1.9 percent to 2
percent versus 1.4 percent to 1.8 percent in January.  Inflation, Deflation  Bernanke said pushing the increase in prices above the
Fed’s 2 percent goal would risk undermining inflation
expectations and erode the central bank’s credibility as a force
for stable prices.  “There are academics who have suggested that the Fed
actively seek very high inflation for a couple of years,” said
 Laurence Meyer , senior managing director at Macroeconomic
Advisers LLC  in  St. Louis  and a former Fed governor. “Central
bankers appreciate that credibility helps stabilize inflation
and makes the real sector more stable. The costs of getting it
back when you lose it are enormous.”  If the Fed can’t convince investors that it can contain
inflation, “we would in fact have less rather than more
flexibility to use accommodative monetary policy to achieve our
employment goals,” Bernanke said.  ‘Doubtful Gains’  “We, the  Federal Reserve , have spent 30 years building up
credibility for low and stable inflation, which has proved
extremely valuable in that we’ve been able to take strong
accommodative actions in the last four, five years,” Bernanke
told reporters. “To risk that asset for what I think would be
quite tentative and perhaps doubtful gains on the real side
would be, I think, an unwise thing to do.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.1 percent to
1,391.92 as of 10:16 a.m. in New York. Yields on benchmark 10-
year Treasury notes slumped four basis points to 1.95 percent.  Krugman, who won the 2008  Nobel Prize  in Economics, said in
a  blog posting  on the  New York  Times’ opinion page yesterday
that Bernanke’s response was “disappointing stuff.”  Krugman, 59, has previously proposed higher inflation to
boost employment and criticized Bernanke in a Bloomberg News
interview last year for not taking more aggressive action.  Bernanke, 58, joined Princeton, in  New Jersey , as a
professor in 1985, according to the central bank’s website. He
was a member of the Fed’s Board of Governors from 2002 to 2005
and chairman of President  George W. Bush ’s  Council of Economic
Advisers  from 2005 to 2006, when he took office as Fed Chairman.  “Krugman’s views are not closely related to the reality in
which Bernanke is forced to operate,” said Anthony Karydakis,
an adjunct professor of economics at New York University’s
Leonard N. Stern School of Business and former chief U.S.
economist at JPMorgan Asset Management. “One of them has the
responsibility of steering the economy through treacherous
waters and the other has the luxury of sitting in his office and
sending articles to the New York Times,” Karydakis said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in  Washington  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  