-- Bernanke Fails to Get Desired Effect, Ira Jersey Says
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-04-25T18:39:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/bernanke-fails-to-get-desired-effect-ira-jersey-says.html
Federal Reserve monetary measures
to address the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression
have failed to boost the economy as much as Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  would like, according to Ira Jersey, an interest-rate
strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG.  The central bank’s policy is “not having the impact that”
Bernanke “hoped, at the speed that he hoped,” said Jersey,
whose company is one of the 21 primary dealers that trade with
the Fed, on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance Midday” in an
interview with  Tom Keene . “There is a limited amount of usage
for monetary policy, at this point, in the real economy.”  The Fed’s polices have held borrowing costs near record-low
levels and helped banks improve their balance sheets. At the
same time, the central bank’s measures aren’t being felt by
consumers, households and businesses in the way the monetary
policy makers had hoped,  Jersey  said.  An April 27 government report may show that gross domestic
product rose at a 2.5 percent annual rate, according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists, down
from 3 percent last quarter. Bernanke, who cited “green shoots”
of recovery in the U.S. in March 2009 only to see the U.S.
jobless rate reach 10 percent seven months later, has had to
contend with an unemployment rate at 8.2 percent in March.  Policy Stance  Central bankers, who repeated their view today that
borrowing costs are likely to remain “exceptionally low” at
least through late 2014, said  would continue its swap of $400
billion of short-term debt with long-term debt to lengthen the
average maturity of its holdings, a move dubbed Operation Twist.
The Fed is scheduled to complete the program at the end of June.  Fed officials forecast the  unemployment rate  would average
7.8 percent to 8 percent in the final three months of this year
versus a forecast of 8.2 percent to 8.5 percent in January,
according to central tendency estimates.  Even as the Fed’s balance sheet hovers at $2.88 trillion as
a part of its efforts to increase the  money supply  in the U.S.,
the rate of growth in funds in the system has failed to keep up,
Jersey said.  “Even though the Fed has put a lot of money into the
system, the actual money supply has not grown that quickly,”
Jersey said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  