-- Bernanke Says Fed May Name Officials Making Rate Forecasts
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-04-25T22:28:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/bernanke-says-fed-may-identify-officials-making-rate-forecasts.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank is considering identifying the
interest-rate forecasts of individual policy makers as it
reviews ways to improve its communications with the public.  The Fed is looking “for ways to improve transparency, and
we’re looking at everything,” Bernanke said at a press
conference today following a meeting of the  Federal Open Market
Committee  in Washington. Giving the names of the individuals
making forecasts is “on the table.”  The Fed currently releases a chart showing dots which
correspond to the interest-rate forecasts of its 17 policy
makers and a table showing the range of their forecasts for
inflation, growth and  unemployment . The chart doesn’t give the
names of the policy makers. Only 10 of them are voting members
of the FOMC in any given year, and the chart and table do not
explain the preferences of the FOMC’s voting membership.  The FOMC’s committee on communications discussed providing
more information that “could convey a sense of how the
committee might adjust policy in response to changes in the
economic outlook,” according to minutes of the Fed’s March
meeting.  Seven of 17 Fed officials expect borrowing costs to remain
below 1 percent at the end of 2014, compared with nine in
January, while 10 expected rates to be 1 percent or higher,
versus eight in January, according to the chart released today.  2014 Pledge  Even so, the FOMC today repeated that borrowing costs are
likely to remain “exceptionally low” at least through late
2014. The Fed lowered its target for the benchmark federal funds
rate to zero to 0.25 percent in December 2008 as it battled the
recession and later bought $2.3 trillion of Treasuries and
housing debt to bring down long-term  interest rates .  “We remain prepared to do more as needed to make sure that
this recovery continues and that inflation stays close to
target,” Bernanke said. Additional bond-buying is still “very
much on the table.”  Officials forecast the  unemployment rate  would average 7.8
percent to 8 percent in the final three months of this year
versus a forecast of 8.2 percent to 8.5 percent in January,
according to central tendency estimates. The new forecasts are
still far above policy makers’ estimates for full employment,
which range from 4.9 percent to 6 percent.  The so-called central tendency economic forecasts exclude
the three highest and three lowest projections.  Fed officials estimated the economy will expand 2.4 percent
to 2.9 percent this year, compared with a January forecast of
2.2 percent to 2.7 percent. They see growth of 2.7 percent to
3.1 percent in 2013 and 3.1 percent to 3.6 percent in 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  