-- Biggs Says Stocks at Least Three Weeks From Ending Slump
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H a y s
-- 2012-04-25T21:01:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/biggs-says-stocks-at-least-three-weeks-from-ending-slump.html
Barton Biggs , the hedge-fund
manager who raised bets on equities before the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index rallied this year, said the U.S. market may slump
three or four more weeks as  Europe ’s economy worsens.  “I don’t think that this correction we’re in is quite over
yet,” Biggs said today in an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s
“The Hays Advantage” with  Kathleen Hays . “I just don’t think
it’s gone far enough. Europe is still a shipwreck, and the  U.S.
economy  has drifted into this soft patch.”  The S&P 500 dipped 3.3 percent from an April 2 peak through
yesterday as political uncertainty in France and the Netherlands
intensified concern over Europe’s sovereign debt crisis. Biggs
said Europe is likely to switch emphasis to fiscal stimulation
to boost growth as its citizens continue to rebel against
austerity measures.  Biggs said he has taken short positions on German and
French indexes, betting they will decline, because the political
rhetoric and economic data from Europe signal a change of course
and a deeper slump.  The U.K. economy shrank in the first quarter as Britain
slid into its first double-dip recession since the 1970s,
forcing Prime Minister  David Cameron  to defend his spending cuts
in Parliament. Gross domestic product fell 0.2 percent from the
fourth quarter, when it declined 0.3 percent, the Office for
National Statistics said today in  London .  Withstanding Pressure  The U.S. is still primed to withstand pressure from Europe
as shown by stronger-than-expected retail sales and declining
consumer debt levels, according to Biggs. Retail sales rose 0.8
percent in March, three times as much as economists projected.
Consumer borrowing rose less than forecast in February,
restrained by a drop in credit-card debt.  Federal Reserve policy makers said today they expect growth
to slowly accelerate and cut their 2012 unemployment forecast to
7.8 percent to 8 percent from an earlier forecast of at least
8.2 percent, while saying borrowing costs are likely to remain
exceptionally low at least through late 2014. The  S&P 500  rose
1.4 percent to 1,390.69 in  New York .  “I’m relatively convinced that the U.S. is not going to
roll into a double-dip,” Biggs said. The market will end its
slump because “I don’t think it’s truly justified.”  Biggs said he doesn’t plan to change his mix of investments
as the U.S. exits its current “soft patch.” He said he is
“heavily” invested in technology stocks, owns oil service and
industrial machinery stocks, and will maintain his positions to
 China .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hays in New York at 
 khays4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  