-- BlackRock Said to Plan Asia Investment Fund With CIC
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s   a n d   B e i   H u
-- 2012-04-27T13:44:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/blackrock-said-to-plan-asia-investment-fund-with-cic.html
(Corrects announcement date of warehouse deal in 11th
paragraph, in story originally published April 26.)  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest
money manager, plans to start a fund with China Investment
Corp., according to a person familiar with the matter.  CIC, the nation’s sovereign-wealth fund, and BlackRock will
initially provide capital for the investments, which would be in
Chinese companies and businesses that sell products in China,
said the person, who asked not to be identified because the
details aren’t public. The joint venture will be managed by Liu Erh-fei, who will leave his position as chairman of Bank of
America Corp.’s brokerage operations in China, the person said.  Laurence D. Fink, chairman and chief executive officer of
BlackRock, said during a conference call with analysts and
investors last year that the firm is interested in expanding in
 Asia  and investor deposits there are “slower than we would
like.” BlackRock, based in New York, had $3.68 trillion in
assets under management as of March 31.  “BlackRock is partnering up with one of the biggest
sovereign wealth funds, a big name with big connections, someone
who will open doors and raise their profile,” said  Fraser
Howie , a Singapore-based managing director at CLSA Asia-Pacific
Markets, a unit of Credit Agricole SA, and co-author of the book
“Red Capitalism” on China’s financial system. “CIC is looking
to diversify the way it invests, basically tying up with an
established partner to try to do more things.”  CIC Assets  Bobbie Collins, a spokeswoman for BlackRock, declined to
comment. Two calls to CIC’s public-affairs office in Beijing
weren’t answered. Selena Morris, a spokeswoman for  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based Bank of America, didn’t immediately return
calls.  CIC, which was set up in 2007 with $200 billion from
China’s Ministry of Finance, had $410 billion of assets at the
end of 2010, according to its latest annual report. The fund
posted an 11.7 percent return on its overseas investments in
2010, it said in July, comparing with the 9.6 percent gain of
the MSCI World Index.  News of the fund was reported earlier by the Financial
Times, quoting Hu Bing, a senior CIC official who spoke of the
fund at a conference in Beijing, and unidentified people with
knowledge of the matter.  The primary focus of the fund would be on companies outside
of  China  which have technologies or resources useful to the
country, the unidentified people told the FT. It could, for
example, co-invest with Chinese companies in their international
acquisitions or take stakes in the Chinese operations of
multinational companies, they added.  BlackRock Stake  In its first quarterly disclosure of U.S. stock holdings in
February 2010, CIC revealed a $714 million stake in BlackRock.  CIC has been ramping up international investments to help
boost returns on the country’s foreign exchange reserves and
meet the nation’s thirst for resources.  In January, it  bought  an 8.68 percent stake in Thames Water
Utilities Ltd., the biggest U.K. water and sewerage company. It
will buy 25 percent of former South African politician Cyril
Ramaphosa’s Shanduka Group for 2 billion rand ($252 million),
the company said on Dec. 22. It also agreed to tie up with
 Singapore ’s Global Logistic Properties Ltd. to buy 15 warehouses
in  Japan  in December.  It had about 60 percent of its assets in the U.S.,  Jin Liqun , chairman of its supervisory board, told CNBC in December.  Russia Fund  GDF Suez SA and CIC signed an agreement covering a 2.3
billion euro ($3 billion) minority investment in GDF Suez’s
exploration and production division and CIC’s purchase of a 10
percent stake in a LNG liquefaction plant.  Last year, CIC committed $1 billion toward a Russian
private-equity fund championed by President  Dmitry Medvedev .  CIC began investing in the U.S. amid the credit crunch in
2007, buying stakes in Blackstone Group LP and Morgan Stanley
that year.  CIC and Blackstone were teaming up to buy real estate-
related non-performing loans being sold by Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc, China’s 21st Century Business Herald
reported in October.  The sovereign wealth manager has also invested billions in
hedge- and private-equity funds, Chairman  Lou Jiwei  said in
August 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  