-- BMW Stretches 3-Series in Top Down China Luxury Expansion: Cars
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-25T01:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/bmw-stretches-3-series-in-top-down-china-luxury-expansion-cars.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  is
making a bigger version of its popular 3-Series sedan in a bid
to tap into Chinese car buyers’ taste for larger cars and lure
them away from the likes of General Motors Co.  The stretch 3-Series, made uniquely for the Chinese market,
is 11 centimeters (4.3 inches) longer than the regular model and
is part of a broader effort by German luxury-car makers to sell
more cars targeted toward first-time buyers in China, after
years of focusing on selling their priciest models.  “The premium market here is developing from the top
downward,”  Ian Robertson , BMW’s sales chief, said this week at
the Beijing auto show. “Over time, you will see the smaller
segments growing more rapidly.”  The small car market in China is currently dominated by
high-volume manufacturers like  General Motors Co. (GM)  BMW,  Daimler
AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi are expanding into
that market to boost growth and lessen reliance on their biggest
models like the 7-Series, half of which are sold in China, as
overall car sales in the country slipped 1.3 percent in the
first quarter.  Larger sedans and sport-utility vehicles accounted for at
least 70 percent of premium car sales in China last year
compared with 40 percent in  Germany , according to Bernstein
Research.  Rich Chinese  “The second generation of the rich Chinese is growing up
and shopping for cars,” said Cui Dongshu, deputy secretary
general of China’s Passenger Car Association. “Luxury
automakers want to lure those young customers with lower-end
product and prepare them to trade up.”  The German automakers, the world’s three largest luxury car
producers, stand to gain market share in 2012 in  China  as wider
offerings puts pressure on mass-market manufacturers. Those car
makers have also been more sensitive than the luxury brands to
China’s weaker economic growth, which decelerated to its  slowest
pace  in nearly three years.  At the Beijing auto show, Mercedes showcased a pre-
production version of the CLA four-door coupe, the smaller
cousin of the $71,300 CLS. Audi presented concepts based on the
Q3 compact SUV, which will be imported into China starting this
year, following the A3 hatchback and A1 subcompact that went on
sale last year. The extended version of the 3-Series marks BMW’s
second model designed specifically for China after debuting the
long-wheelbase 5-Series in 2010.  Feeling the Pinch  “Here in China, people are aspiring for their first car,
and they go for entry level,” Daimler Chief Executive Officer
 Dieter Zetsche  said to reporters in Beijing. “The ultimate
aspiration is to arrive at the top segment. That definitely
plays into our hands. There’s tremendous opportunity.”  Growth in China’s luxury-car segment will probably be in
the range of 15 percent to 20 percent, more than triple the
total market’s 5 percent gain, Zetsche said, adding that demand
for upscale cars could outpace the overall market for “years.”  Mass market brands like  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  are already
starting to feel the impact of the expansion by the German
brands, which dominate China’s luxury segment with a combined
share of more than 75 percent.  German premium automakers’ introduction of offerings in the
same customer segments as  Honda Motor Co. (7267) ’s Accord mid-sized
sedan is making it harder to boost sales, Takanobu Ito, Honda’s
president, said in Beijing.  Prices Coming Down  A Mercedes A-Class compact sells for as little as 178,000
yuan at a dealership in Beijing’s Chaoyang district, according
to figures by auto pricing website cheshi.com. A 2.4 liter
engine Honda Accord starts at 172,400 yuan, cheshi data shows.  Tokyo-based Honda is seeking to make its cars more “price
competitive” by cutting costs and is also tailoring of the
Accord to Chinese tastes, Ito said.  “Prices of luxury cars are coming down to a more
reasonable level,” said Dong Haiyang, vice president of BAIC
Motor Corp. “The discounts by luxury carmakers are adding more
pressure on the cars that carry price tags between 250,000 yuan
and 300,000 yuan by offering consumers choices of having a
premium brand car with about the same amount of money.”  After getting her driver’s license, Mandy Zhao, a school
teacher in China’s bustling coastal region, wasn’t sure at first
that she’d be able to afford the silver-grey Mercedes B-Class
compact that she eventually bought at the end of March.  Building Smaller Cars  “I initially had the impression it would be out of my
reach,” said the 58 year old from Suzhou. “I realized how
wrong this impression was. Prices on some models are reasonable
and still within reach of middle-income earners.”  To win over Zhao, the Mercedes dealer offered a discount of
70,000 yuan ($11,100), or 23 percent off the 310,000-yuan
sticker price. The Stuttgart, Germany-based automaker plans to
make the model more competitive by assembling the vehicle in
China to eliminate  import duties .  “Competition will become more and more intense,” said
Jenny Gu, an analyst with LMC Automotive in  Shanghai . “The
slowdown that has currently hit cheaper, smaller car sales will
one day spread to the higher-end cars.”  BMW and Audi will also start building smaller cars in
China. A new BMW plant in Tiexi, which will start production
next month, will make the X1 compact SUV. Audi plans to build
the Q3 locally.  Sought After Market  The competition means that mass-market brands also have to
stand out. Italy’s  Fiat SpA (F)  unveiled the Viaggio sedan in
Beijing this week, marking its latest push into China. It plans
to use a Gucci edition of the retro-styled 500 mini car to
distinguish itself from VW and other mass-market brands.  “China is probably one of the most competitive markets in
the world,” Olivier Francois, head of the Fiat brand, said in
an interview. The Gucci 500 helps the carmaker stake out its
“own territory” as luxury brands expand into lower segments.  China is a sought-after market because of the fast pace of
growth and the higher prices. The country is the top market for
the Mercedes S-Class, even though the vehicle costs the
equivalent of $147,500, 60 percent more than the U.S. starting
price of $91,850.  The higher prices help BMW, Audi and Mercedes earn average
profit margins of about 16 percent to 18 percent in China,
compared with 10 percent to 12 percent globally, according to
 Credit Suisse. (CSGN)  Still, holding on to customers remains a
challenge.  “Chinese buyers are brand conscious but not brand loyal,”
said  Ashvin Chotai , managing director of Intelligence Automotive
 Asia  in  London . “As the market matures and buyers have more
experience, brand loyalty will slowly evolve.”  To that end, getting customers early may help. Mercedes at
any rate has a good shot at holding on to B-Class buyer Zhao.  “I’m happy with the car,” the school teacher said. “It’s
a comfortable drive and good value for the money. If we did have
the intention to upgrade, I would definitely consider a Benz.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net ;
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  