-- Bo Says School Paid by Scholarships, Never Drove a Ferrari
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-25T14:19:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/bo-s-son-issues-statement-to-harvard-publication.html
Bo Guagua, the son of ousted
Chinese Politburo member  Bo Xilai , said his education was funded
by scholarships and his mother’s savings and denied ever driving
a Ferrari as he sought to dispel speculation of an extravagant
lifestyle supported by ill-gotten wealth.  In his first public comments since his father was removed
and his mother arrested on suspicion of murder, the 24-year-old
Harvard Kennedy School student defended his academic record and
said he was “deeply concerned” by the events surrounding his
family, which is at the center of China’s biggest political
upheaval in more than two decades.  “Recently, there has been increasing attention from the
press on my private life,” Bo said in a  statement  in the
Harvard Crimson, the university’s student newspaper. “As a
result of these speculations, I feel responsible to the public
to provide an account of the facts.”  Bo Xilai’s ouster and reports that his wife had moved money
abroad have focused attention on how his son’s education was
funded. Along with Harvard, Bo Guagua has attended the exclusive
Harrow School and Oxford University in the U.K. While Bo Xilai’s
 salary  as Chongqing Communist Party Secretary was about 10,000
yuan ($1,586) a month, his relatives have accumulated wealth of
at least $136 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
on the extended family’s business interests.  ‘Mother’s Generosity’  “My tuition and living expenses at Harrow School,
University of Oxford and  Harvard University  were funded
exclusively by two sources -- scholarships earned independently,
and my mother’s generosity from the savings she earned from her
years as a successful lawyer and writer,” Bo said. He didn’t
say where the scholarships came from.  Harvard said it won’t comment on how many Chinese students
receive financial aid.  Bo said he never lent his name to “or participated in any
for-profit business or venture, in  China  or abroad.” He said he
has been involved in developing a not-for-profit social
networking website in China.  Bo Xilai, 62, who was suspended as Chongqing Party chief
last month, has been accused of “serious violations of
discipline,” the Xinhua News Agency said April 10. His wife, Gu
Kailai, and an aide were put in custody for suspicion of
murdering British businessman Neil Heywood. Gu Kailai is Bo
Guagua’s mother.  That was after Bo Xilai’s former police chief, Wang Lijun,
had spent a night in February at the U.S. consulate in Chengdu,
an event confirmed by both the U.S. and Chinese governments.
Xinhua reported that Wang disclosed the murder allegations.  Academic Defense  In the statement, Bo Guagua said he was “deeply concerned
about the events” surrounding his family, though he had no
comment about the investigation of them.  The New York Times reported on April 18 that Bo Guagua was
suspended for a year at Oxford after struggling with his
coursework. The report said he liked European  sports cars  and
enjoyed throwing parties.  “It is impossible to address all of the rumours and
allegations about myself, but I will state the facts regarding
some of the most pertinent claims,” Bo said.  He defended his academic record and social life while at
 Oxford University , saying he debated at the Oxford Union and was
president of the Politics, Philosophy and Economics Society.  “Like many other university students, I also devoted time
and energy to extra-curricular activities,” he said. “These
extra-curricular activities enabled me to broaden my
perspective, serve the student community, and experience all
that Oxford has to offer.”  No Ferrari  Bo said he had never driven a Ferrari and never visited the
U.S. ambassador’s residence in China, contradicting a report in
the Wall Street Journal in November. Speaking March 9 in
Beijing, Bo Xilai denied as “completely rubbish” reports that
his son drives a red Ferrari, and said his son attended Harvard
and Oxford on scholarships.  Bo Guagua lives in a two-bedroom luxury apartment in
Cambridge, Massachusetts, while studying at Harvard. Units of
that size start at $3,000 a month, according to a concierge at
the building.  Bloomberg News reported April 14 that Gu Kailai’s sisters
controlled an international web of businesses worth at least
$126 million. On April 23, Bloomberg reported that family
members of Bo Xilai have held positions at  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and
alternative-energy company  China Everbright International Ltd. (257)   Kennedy School  According to its website, the Kennedy School  estimates  that
the minimum cost, including tuition and living expenses, is
$70,802 for one year of studies.  Harvard College  has financial aid programs that include
free tuition for families with annual income of less than
$60,000. According to the Kennedy School website,  funding  for
the graduate school itself “is limited” and students are
encouraged to seek outside aid.  China has 582 students at Harvard, more than any other
foreign country, and more than half of them, 288, are in the
Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, according to the
university website. Harvard’s Kennedy School, where Bo Guagua is
enrolled, has 29 Chinese students.  The Journal reported April 16 that Bo Guagua had left his
Cambridge apartment escorted by private security guards. U.S.
State Department spokesman Mark Toner told reporters last week
that Bo was still at school at Harvard and wasn’t in custody.  Bo’s statement was posted on the Harvard Crimson website.
Julie Zauzmer, the Crimson’s managing editor, said the paper’s
reporters spoke with Bo Guagua on the phone and verified that he
sent the e-mail statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Rayman in Cambridge,  Massachusetts   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  