-- Bo Brother Resigns From Everbright as Son Defends Lifestyle
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-26T06:16:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/bo-xilai-s-brother-resigns-as-vice-chairman-of-china-everbright.html
The brother of ousted Chinese
politician Bo Xilai resigned from a corporate executive post,
and Bo’s son defended his lifestyle and educational expenses,
amid scrutiny of the family’s wealth and influence.  Li Xueming, the brother of former Politburo member Bo Xilai, stepped down as a director and vice chairman of  China
Everbright International Ltd. (257) , after media reports that
highlighted his personal background.  “The board has been advised by Mr. Li that he, for the
best interest of the company and its shareholders as a whole,
has decided to resign from the board,” China Everbright, an
alternative energy company, said yesterday in a statement.  The media reports about Li’s identity emerged after Bo’s
removal, which marks the biggest political upheaval in China in
more than two decades. Bo’s downfall and the arrest of his wife,
Gu Kailai, on suspicion of involvement in the murder of a
British businessman have heightened scrutiny of the family’s
business interests and influence.  Bo’s Son  Harvard student Bo Guagua,  Bo Xilai ’s younger son, said his
education was funded by scholarships and his mother’s savings
and denied ever driving a Ferrari as he sought to dispel
speculation of an extravagant lifestyle supported by ill-gotten
wealth. In an April 24 statement, the first public comments
since his mother’s arrest, the 24-year-old said he was “deeply
concerned” by the events surrounding his family.  Bo Xilai, 62, who was suspended as Chongqing Party chief
last month, has been accused of “serious violations of
discipline,” the Xinhua News Agency said April 10. His wife and
an aide were put in custody for suspicion of murdering British
businessman Neil Heywood.  The arrests came after Bo Xilai’s former police chief, Wang
Lijun, had spent a night in February at the U.S. consulate in
Chengdu, an event confirmed by both the U.S. and Chinese
governments. Xinhua reported that Wang disclosed the murder
allegations.  Most Serious Crimes  The Communist Party believed one of Bo’s most serious
crimes was a wiretapping campaign that included monitoring the
phones of top leaders, the New York Times reported today, citing
people with party ties it did not identify. The report said Bo
was accused of damaging party unity by collecting the evidence.
Those monitored included President  Hu Jintao , it said.  Li Xueming, 64, who also goes by the name Bo Xiyong, sold
12 million shares in China Everbright in 2010 and 2011, cashing
out HK$43.2 million ($5.6 million), according to Hong Kong
Exchange filings. That left him with 10 million options,
according to the company’s latest annual report.  Singapore  and Hong Kong corporate filings reviewed by
Bloomberg News show shared addresses, shareholders and directors
indicating Bo Xiyong and Li Xueming are the same.  ‘Quite Disgraceful’  “It is quite disgraceful that individuals are allowed to
adopt different identities depending on which company or
circumstance they are appearing in,”  David Webb , a former
director of the Hong Kong bourse, said in an April 24 interview.
“Shareholders have a right to know exactly who is running their
companies.”  Ernest Kong, a spokesman for the Securities and Futures
Commission, the Hong Kong regulator, didn’t respond to e-mails
or voicemail messages seeking comment on Li’s resignation.
Shares of China Everbright International rose as much as 7.3
percent in trading on the Hong Kong stock exchange today and
were up 7 percent at 1:35 p.m. The benchmark  Hang Seng Index  was
up 0.2 percent.  Gu’s sisters controlled an international web of businesses
worth at least $126 million and the family members of Bo Xilai
have held positions at companies including Citigroup Inc. and
Citic Securities Co., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Harvard Student  Bo Guagua is a student at the Harvard Kennedy School in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts . In his statement, which ran yesterday
in the  Harvard Crimson , the university’s student newspaper, he
defended his lifestyle.  “Recently, there has been increasing attention from the
press on my private life,” Bo said in the statement. “As a
result of these speculations, I feel responsible to the public
to provide an account of the facts.”  Bo Xilai’s ouster and reports that his wife moved money
abroad have focused attention on how his son’s education was
funded. Along with Harvard, Bo Guagua has attended the exclusive
Harrow School and Oxford University in the U.K. While Bo Xilai’s
salary as Chongqing party secretary was about 10,000 yuan
($1,586) a month, his relatives have accumulated wealth of at
least $136 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg on
the extended family’s business interests.  ‘Scholarships Earned’  “My tuition and living expenses at  Harrow School ,
University of Oxford and  Harvard University  were funded
exclusively by two sources -- scholarships earned independently,
and my mother’s generosity from the savings she earned from her
years as a successful lawyer and writer,” Bo said. He didn’t
say where the scholarships came from.  Harvard said it won’t comment on how many Chinese students
receive financial aid.  He defended his academic record and social life while at
 Oxford University , saying he debated at the Oxford Union and was
president of the Politics, Philosophy and Economics Society.  ‘Broaden My Perspective’  “Like many other university students, I also devoted time
and energy to extra-curricular activities,” he said. “These
extra-curricular activities enabled me to broaden my
perspective, serve the student community, and experience all
that Oxford has to offer.”  Bo Guagua said he had never driven a Ferrari and never
visited the U.S. ambassador’s residence in  China , contradicting
a report in the Wall Street Journal in November. Speaking March
9 in Beijing, Bo Xilai denied as “completely rubbish” reports
that his son drives a red Ferrari, and said his son attended
Harvard and Oxford on scholarships.  Bo Xiyong is the oldest son of Bo Yibo, a former vice
premier of China who died in 2007. The family patriarch was one
of the so-called eight immortals who helped steer China after
the 1966-1976 Cultural Revolution.  China Everbright said in the statement that “recent
reports by the media” on Li Xueming’s background “have no
relationship with the normal business and operations of the
company, and have not affected and will not affect the normal
business and operations of the company and its subsidiaries.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Yidi Zhao in Beijing at 
 yzhao7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  