-- BofA’s Rubinoff Said to Quit After Losing Role
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-04-25T03:11:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/bofa-s-rubinoff-said-to-quit-after-losing-role.html
Bank of America Corp. ’s  Michael Rubinoff  quit after losing his role earlier this year as co-head
of global corporate and investment banking, according to two
people with knowledge of the decision.  Rubinoff stepped down this week as chairman of that
business, said the people, declining to be identified because
the move hasn’t been announced. He didn’t respond to messages
left at his Bank of America office, and John Yiannacopoulos, a
company spokesman, declined to comment.  Rubinoff joins a growing number of senior executives to
leave the company’s investment bank, which is led by co-Chief
Operating Officer Thomas K. Montag.  Andrea Orcel , the division’s
chairman and a top dealmaker, and James Forbes, who oversaw $30
billion in the bank’s principal investments, joined UBS AG in
the past month. Jonathan Moulds, president of  Europe  and
 emerging markets , is retiring in June.  Christian Meissner was named sole leader of global
corporate and investment banking in January, less than a year
after he, Rubinoff and Paul Donofrio were appointed to co-head
that unit. Montag shook up the division after the broader
investment bank, including trading, posted an annual profit that
plunged by half to $2.97 billion in 2011 as Europe’s sovereign-
debt crisis roiled markets.  Deepening Relationships  At the time, Rubinoff, 49, was given the chairman title
along with Purna Saggurti, and was made responsible for
deepening relationships with chief executive officers and
directors of large corporations. Bank of America has worked on
Safra Group’s agreement to pay more than 1 billion Swiss francs
($1.1 billion) for a controlling stake in wealth manager  Bank
Sarasin & Cie. AG (BSAN) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rubinoff said he plans to work for the Safra family,
according to the people. Safra Group controls  Brazil ’s Banco
Safra SA and is led by Joseph Safra, the world’s 52nd-richest
 person , according to Forbes magazine. Robert Siegfried, a
spokesman for Sao Paulo-based Banco Safra, declined to comment.  In a memo to employees, Montag called Rubinoff an
“accomplished” banker to some of the world’s largest financial
firms who helped Bank of America strengthen its capital level
through asset sales.  Orcel, who will serve as co-head of UBS’s investment bank,
joined Merrill Lynch & Co. in 1992. He was among the biggest
dealmakers when the firm was independent, leading the team that
helped Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc buy ABN Amro Holding NV
in 2008 in the biggest banking takeover. Orcel was named
chairman of global banking and markets after Bank of America
acquired Merrill Lynch in 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in  New York  at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  