-- BP Oil Spill Judge ‘Leaning’ Toward Pact Approval
-- B y   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-04-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/bp-oil-spill-judge-leaning-toward-pact-approval.html
The U.S. judge presiding over
lawsuits tied to the 2010  Gulf of Mexico  oil spill said he is
“leaning” toward approving  BP Plc (BP/) 's multibillion dollar 
settlement with private plaintiffs.  BP in March agreed to pay an estimated $7.8 billion to
resolve most private plaintiffs’ claims for economic loss,
property damage and spill and cleanup-related injuries. Lawyers
for BP and the plaintiffs filed the accord April 18 with U.S.
District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans, seeking preliminary
approval. The settlement establishes two separate classes, one
for economic loss and the other for any physical injuries
related to the spill or the cleanup.  Barbier said at a hearing yesterday that he is “leaning”
toward preliminary approval because “without it there can be no
due process.” This includes sending out notices to potential
class members, he said. “But again I remind people, this is
just a starting point, not an ending point,” Barbier said.  Barbier said he would issue a ruling “within the next
several days or a week or so.”  The blowout and  explosion  on the Deepwater Horizon drilling
rig killed 11 workers and caused the worst offshore oil spill in
U.S. history. The accident prompted hundreds of lawsuits against
London-based BP;  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the Vernier, Switzerland-based
owner and operator of the rig; and  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which
provided cementing services.  Other Claims  The proposed settlement, reached March 2, days before a
scheduled trial on liability for the 2010 spill, doesn’t cover
federal government claims and those of Gulf Coast states
 Louisiana  and  Alabama .  It also excludes claims of financial institutions, casinos,
private plaintiffs in parts of Florida and  Texas , and residents
and businesses claiming harm from the Obama administration’s
moratorium on deep-water drilling prompted by the spill.  Lawyers for BP and the plaintiffs argued yesterday before
Barbier for preliminary approval of the settlement. Barbier
didn’t hear from objectors to the settlement, including
Halliburton. Barbier said he would review all objections.  “This is not a final approval of anything,” Barbier said
as the hearing began. The proceeding is meant only to consider
the request by BP and plaintiffs’ attorneys for preliminary
approval, he said. “The earliest we could get final approval on
this scheduled would be early November,” he said.  “Preliminary approval of both settlements is warranted,”
BP lawyer Richard Godfrey told Barbier. The agreement is
“comprehensive” and far-reaching, he said.  ‘Full and Fair’  Unlike lawsuits over the Exxon Valdez  oil spill  or other
class actions, “this is full and fair compensation offered
now,” not after years of litigation, Godfrey said. “BP made a
commitment to paying now,” he said.  “We tried to achieve the greatest good for the greatest
amount of people,” said plaintiffs’ attorney Robin Greenwald,
who described the medical benefits section of the settlement to
the court.  BP and the Plaintiffs Steering Committee, a group of
lawyers appointed by Barbier to handle the lawsuits, asked the
judge to hold a Nov. 8 fairness hearing before final approval of
the accord and to postpone any trial on liability until after
the hearing. BP has agreed to pay claimants before final
approval of the settlement, plaintiffs’ attorney  Steve Herman 
told Barbier yesterday.  Macondo Well  The plaintiffs’ and government claims against BP’s
contractors on the doomed Macondo well remain, and no new trial
date has been set. A trial would cover federal and state
government pollution claims, as well as cross-claims between BP
and its partner companies in the Macondo site and rig.  Under the settlement, BP has assigned to the plaintiffs the
company’s right to seek cleanup costs and the value of the lost
oil from Transocean and Halliburton.  The proposed settlement between BP and the Plaintiffs
Steering Committee will be paid out of a $20 billion trust set
up to compensate spill victims. The trust has about $14 billion
remaining.  BP has estimated the cost at $7.8 billion. All sides agree
the amount may increase depending on the number of claims paid.
The amount also may be lower than the estimate. If the trust is
exhausted, the company will pay additional funds directly,
lawyers for the plaintiffs said last month.  ‘No Cap’  “There is no cap on the settlement,” plaintiffs’ attorney
Joe Rice told Barbier at the hearing. Rice, an attorney with
Motley Rice LLC in Mount Pleasant,  South Carolina , was one of
the PSC’s lead negotiators for the BP settlement. “No attorney
fees will be deducted” from individual settlements, Rice said.  BP will pay attorneys fees and costs on top of the
settlement amount, Rice said. Administration of the settlement
will also be paid by BP, he said.  Halliburton is opposing the settlement, according to a
court filing. The Houston-based company “objects to the limited
amount of time available to analyze the settlement agreements
and files these preliminary objections,” Donald E. Godwin, a
lawyer for the Houston-based company, said in court papers filed
April 24.  Halliburton also objects to the agreement because it
assigns BP’s claims against the company to the plaintiffs
lawyers and attempts to make Halliburton “liable in part for
settlement payments,” Godwin said. The settlement also
restricts Halliburton’s ability to settle claims, he said.  Quick-Pay Claims  Mississippi Attorney General Jim Hood said in a court
filing yesterday that the spill victims who previously agreed to
accept so-called quick-pay settlements should be allowed to
participate in the settlement process. Individuals received
$5,000 and businesses got $25,000 through the quick-pay claim
system, regardless of the magnitude of damages they suffered.  Many of the 200,000 spill victims who gave up their right
to sue for actual and future damages did so “as a result of
economic duress,” because they didn’t have the economic staying
power to wait for a court resolution of their claims, Hood said.  The American Shrimp Processors Association asked Barbier
this week to delay preliminary approval of the settlement,
calling it biased against some members of the shrimp industry.
The accord treats shrimp harvesters and boat captains better
than owners of docks and plants that receive the catch and
prepare it for market, the organization said in court papers
April 23.  The deal will allow victims who aren’t satisfied with it to
opt out and pursue lawsuits against BP. Plaintiffs not covered
in the overall settlement, such as those claiming harm from the
drilling moratorium that followed the spill, can continue to
pursue their claims, according to the April 18 filing of the
proposed agreement.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  