-- BP Spill Pact Should Be Approved, Plaintiffs’ Lawyer Argues
-- B y   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-04-25T20:02:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/bp-spill-pact-should-be-approved-plaintiffs-lawyer-argues-1-.html
BP Plc (BP/) ’s proposed $7.8 billion
partial settlement of claims arising from the 2010  Gulf of
Mexico  oil spill should be given preliminary approval, a lawyer
suing the company told the judge overseeing the litigation.  BP in March agreed to resolve most private plaintiffs’
claims for economic loss, property damage and spill and cleanup-
related injuries. Lawyers for BP and the plaintiffs filed the
accord April 18 with U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in  New
Orleans , seeking preliminary approval. Barbier is considering
that request at a hearing today.  “We are here today to present a fairly unique class-action
settlement, actually two settlements,” the plaintiffs’
attorney,  Steve Herman , told Barbier. The settlement establishes
two separate classes, one for economic loss and the other for
any physical injuries related to the spill or the cleanup,
Herman said.  The blowout and  explosion  on the Deepwater Horizon drilling
rig killed 11 workers and caused the worst offshore  oil spill  in
U.S. history. The accident prompted hundreds of lawsuits against
London-based BP;  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the Vernier, Switzerland-based
owner and operator of the rig; and Halliburton Co., which
provided cementing services.  Not Final  “This is not a final approval of anything,” Barbier said
as today’s hearing began. The proceeding is meant only to
consider the request by BP and plaintiffs’ attorneys for
preliminary approval, he said. “The earliest we could get final
approval on this scheduled would be early November,” he said.  The proposed settlement, reached March 2, days before a
scheduled trial on liability for the 2010 spill, doesn’t cover
federal government claims and those of the Gulf Coast states
 Louisiana  and  Alabama .  It also excludes claims of financial institutions, casinos,
private plaintiffs in parts of Florida and  Texas , and residents
and businesses claiming harm from the Obama administration’s
moratorium on deep-water drilling prompted by the spill.  BP and the Plaintiffs Steering Committee, a group of
lawyers appointed by Barbier to handle the lawsuits, asked the
judge to hold a Nov. 8 fairness hearing before final approval of
the accord and to postpone any trial on liability until after
the hearing. BP has agreed to pay claimants before final
approval of the settlement, Herman said today.  Macondo Well  The plaintiffs’ and government claims against BP’s
contractors on the doomed Macondo well remain, and no new trial
date has been set. A trial would cover federal and state
government pollution claims, as well as cross-claims between BP
and its partner companies in the Macondo site and rig.  Under the settlement, BP has assigned to the plaintiffs the
company’s right to seek cleanup costs and the value of the lost
oil from Transocean and  Halliburton. (HAL)   The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  