-- Brazil Futures Yields Fall to Record Low on Savings-Account View
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2012-04-25T13:18:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/brazil-futures-yields-fall-to-record-low-on-savings-account-view.html
Yields on Brazilian interest-rate
futures contracts dropped to a record as President  Dilma Rousseff  left open the possibility of changes to savings-account
rules that would allow for more cuts in borrowing costs.  The yields fell after O Estado de Sao Paulo reported that
Rousseff, when asked by reporters yesterday in Brasilia about
possible changes to savings rules, said “we’ll see.” The
yields plunged last week after the central bank signaled in a
statement that slowing inflation and weaker global economic
growth may allow for further cuts in  interest rates .  “Dilma said they’re going to think about changing the
poupanca rule, which is different from what they had said
before, which is that they wouldn’t touch it,”  Tony Volpon ,
head of emerging-markets research at Nomura Securities
International Inc., said in a phone interview from  New York .
“That shift in tone is an indication they may do something.”  The yield on the futures contract due in January 2014 slid
for a second day, dropping five basis points, or 0.05 percentage
point, to 8.81 percent at 10:01 a.m. in Sao Paulo. It earlier
touched a record low 8.79 percent. The real was little changed
at 1.8793 per dollar.  Brazilian law requires minimum returns on savings accounts,
known as poupanca, spurring concern further reductions by the
central bank will drive investors out of  government bonds  and
into bank deposits.  Policy makers lowered the benchmark lending rate last week
by 75 basis points to 9 percent, near the record low of 8.75
percent. They said in a statement accompanying the unanimous
decision that they were “continuing the adjustment process of
monetary conditions” given that inflation risks “remain
limited.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in  Sao Paulo  at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  