-- Build America Bonds Merit Tax Panel's Time, Democrats Say
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-04-25T04:01:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/build-america-bonds-merit-tax-panel-s-time-democrats-say.html
Top Democratic tax writers in the
U.S. House said Republicans are unfairly excluding Build America
Bonds and benefits for energy manufacturing from a debate over
reviving expired tax provisions.  Those tax breaks and others that expired at the end of 2010
were effective and should be considered along with provisions
that lapsed in December 2011, Democrats Sander Levin and Richard Neal said in a letter to Republican  Dave Camp , chairman of the
House Ways and Means Committee.  “The majority’s approach fails to recognize the importance
of tax provisions in promoting  job creation , investment and
economic growth,” Levin and Neal wrote in a letter delivered
yesterday.  A Ways and Means subcommittee plans to meet tomorrow to
discuss expired tax breaks, such as the deduction for state and
local sales taxes, the research and development tax credit and
multinational companies’ ability to defer U.S. taxes on
financial services income earned outside the country.  Republicans, who are working on a tax-code overhaul that
would eliminate targeted breaks and reduce rates, have said they
want to review the effectiveness of various provisions before
deciding whether to extend them.  The panel will hear testimony only from House members who
introduced bills on a list of tax breaks that mostly expired at
the end of 2011 or are scheduled to expire in December.  Formal Opportunity  “This hearing provides a formal opportunity for the
subcommittee to hear from our House colleagues about the merits
of extending -- or not extending -- many of these tax
policies,” Republican Representative Pat Tiberi of  Ohio ,
chairman of the tax subcommittee, said in a statement.  Levin, of  Michigan , and Neal, of  Massachusetts , wrote that
they were “troubled by the tone and substance” of the
announcement of the hearing because it didn’t distinguish
between provisions designed to be temporary and others that they
said merit extension.  “This is an extenders hearing, and, since Democrats failed
to extend these stimulus provisions in 2010 when they controlled
the House, the Senate and the White House, it seems obvious that
they do not fit the parameters for this hearing,” said Michelle
Dimarob, a spokeswoman for the Ways and Means Committee.  The definition of tax extender for the hearing excludes
broader fiscal issues such as income tax rate cuts that expire
at the end of this year. It doesn’t allow discussion of tax
provisions that Congress let lapse in 2010 as part of a
bipartisan deal that extended income tax rate cuts.  After that agreement, Republicans took credit for allowing
Build America Bonds and energy manufacturing incentives created
in the 2009 stimulus law to expire.  ‘Tax Subsidies’  “Republicans were able to prevent a long list of existing
tax subsidies (estimated at over $100 billion) from being
extended,” said a Ways and Means Republican  press release  in
2010 that cited 73 provisions that were allowed to expire.  Build America Bonds were created in 2009 to reduce
borrowing costs for municipalities as banks remained cautious
about extending credit after the financial crisis. The Treasury
paid 35 percent of the interest on the securities while the
interest on the bonds was taxable, in contrast to the income-tax
exemption for buyers of traditional municipal bonds.  Democrats, including the Obama administration, have
unsuccessfully tried to revive the stimulus tax breaks.
Republicans said Build America Bonds generated high fees for
Wall Street underwriters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  