-- California’s Chiang to Dock Lawmaker Pay, Judge Rules
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-04-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/california-s-chiang-to-dock-lawmaker-pay-judge-rules.html
California Controller John Chiang’s
decision to withhold lawmakers’ pay in a budget dispute last
year overstepped his constitutional authority, a judge said in a
tentative ruling.  Chiang doesn’t have the power under a state constitutional
amendment passed by voters in 2010 to determine if a budget
approved by the Legislature is legally balanced, Sacramento
County Superior Court Judge  David Brown  said in the ruling. The
amendment, known as Proposition 25, bars lawmakers from getting
paid if they fail to pass a balanced budget on time.  Chiang docked the pay of the entire Legislature on June 21,
concluding that an $86.6 billion general-fund spending plan it
had passed on time six days earlier was incomplete and built on
faulty assumptions. He said he was acting under Proposition 25.
Governor  Jerry Brown , a Democrat, vetoed the budget and a
compromise was passed by Democratic lawmakers before the start
of the fiscal year July 1.  “Voters passed Proposition 25 because they’re tired of the
Legislature’s chronic inability to pass a balanced budget by the
June 15 constitutional deadline,” Chiang, a Democrat, said in a
statement yesterday. “The initiative was clear -- no balanced,
on-time budget, no pay for lawmakers.”  Chiang said the tentative ruling would allow lawmakers “to
keep their salaries flowing by simply slapping the title ‘budget
act’ on a sheet of paper by June 15.”  State Assembly Speaker John Perez and Senate President Pro
Tem Darrell Steinberg, both Democrats, sued Chiang in January,
asking a judge to determine whether the elected controller can
impose his judgment on when a budget is balanced.  The case is Steinberg v. Chiang, 2012-00117584, California
Superior Court ( Sacramento ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  