-- Cameron Urges ‘Financially Sustainanable’ Clean Energy
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   R e e d   L a n d b e r g
-- 2012-04-26T14:02:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/cameron-sees-clean-energy-supporting-15-000-jobs-in-u-k-.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said wind and solar companies need to cut costs and develop the
most suitable sites to win citizens over to the technology.  Clean energy projects brought in 4.7 billion pounds ($7.6
billion) of investment to the U.K. in the last year, supporting
15,000 jobs, Cameron told energy ministers from 23 nations today
as the government announced a series of contracts worth 350
million pounds for companies including utility  EON AG. (EOAN)   “Our commitment and investment in renewable energy has
helped to make renewable energy possible,” Cameron said at the
event in  London  overseen by U.K. Energy Secretary Ed Davey and
his U.S. counterpart Steven Chu. “Now we have a different
challenge. We need to make it financially sustainable.”  Under Cameron, who has said he wants to make his government
the “greenest ever,” the U.K. cut subsidies for solar power as
a surge in installations risked driving up electricity costs. At
the same time, it raised targets for offshore wind installations
amid the country’s first double-dip recession since the 1970s.  “The government seems to forget it needs to be affordable
for consumers who are the ones left picking up the bill,” said
Richard Lloyd, executive director for the Which? organization
that publishes consumer advice magazines. “People tell us that
soaring fuel bills are their No. 1 financial concern.”  Ministers Meeting  Delegates at the Clean Energy Ministerial meeting hosted by
Britain represent nations making up 80 percent of greenhouse-gas
emissions and 90 percent of global clean-energy investment.
They’re working on policies that boost renewable power and
energy efficiency while cutting  carbon emissions .  Chu, speaking to reporters after Cameron’s speech, said
ministers are sharing findings on energy efficiency standards
for more than 60 domestic appliances that have the potential to
reduce electricity demand by about 600 terawatt-hours.  That’s “the equivalent of roughly 200 mid-size  power
plants ” that may not have to be built, Chu said. “The
acceleration of green technologies can save consumers’ money and
create growth.”  Ministers agreed on six new programs, including one to
bring lighting to two million people in India by the end of 2015
and an atlas of global wind and solar resources to assist in
development of renewables, Davey said.  U.S. Wind Support  The U.K. yesterday pledged 60 million pounds to help
develop  carbon capture  and storage projects in  emerging markets ,
and on April 23 announced a program with the U.S. to develop
floating  wind turbines . The U.S. offered $180 million for four
demonstration projects, while Britain pledged 25 million pounds
for contractors to demonstrate the technology.  Asked about a U.S. tax credit benefitting wind power that
expires this year, Chu declined to predict whether Congress will
extend it, saying only that the credit is “an important part of
helping renewable technologies move forward.”  Cameron’s government has supported investment in offshore
wind capacity, a technology in which Britain leads the world in
terms of deployment. A third of the most favorable sites in
 Europe  are in its waters.  Britain’s economy shrank 0.2 percent in the first quarter
after a 0.3 percent contraction in the final three months of
last year, defying analysts’ predictions that growth had resumed
following the recession in 2008 and 2009.  ‘Huge Challenges’  Today, the prime minister said renewable-energy sources are
needed to drive economic growth and that the power they provide
must be affordable.  “There are huge challenges facing governments across the
world today, and one of the most important of all is how we meet
our growing energy demands,” Cameron said. “We urgently need a
more diverse, cleaner mix of energy sources that will give us
security without causing irreparable damage to the planet.”  The government is also encouraging wider use of biomass,
geothermal and heat-pump technology. EON, JDR Cable Systems
Holdings Ltd. and  Helius Energy Plc (HEGY)  are among the companies
announcing investments in the U.K. alongside the ministerial
meeting, the Department of Energy and Climate Change said today.  More than 20 companies are joining the Norstec group that
plans to develop renewable infrastructure around the North Sea.
Supporters include Scottish Power Ltd., Dong Energy A/S,
Mainstream Renewable Power Ltd.,  Statoil ASA (STL) , Statkraft AS,
 Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA (GAM) ,  Alstom SA (ALO) ,  Areva SA (AREVA)  and
David Brown Gear Systems Ltd., the prime minister’s office said.  U.K. Contracts  Energy investments confirmed today include:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg in London at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  