-- Cameron Braces for U.K. Confidence Shock on Recession Return
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-04-26T07:56:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/cameron-braces-for-u-k-confidence-shock-as-recession-returns.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
government is bracing itself as the first U.K. recession since
he took office threatens to deliver a shock to confidence.  As the premier persists with the fiscal squeeze that has
defined his administration, he now faces twin dangers from
political fallout and economic damage. While Cameron insists his
austerity program has kept U.K. government  bond yields  low and
aided the economy, he said yesterday that a 0.2 percent first-
quarter contraction was “very disappointing.”  “The headlines all over the place will do damage to
confidence,” said  Brian Hilliard , an economist at  Societe
Generale  in London, who was the only one of 40 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey to correctly forecast the outcome. “It
will increase the pressure on Cameron at a time when he’s making
many missteps on other issues.”  News of a  double-dip recession  and the threat it poses to
sentiment among consumers and businesses risks compounding the
woes of the Conservative premier after a month when the
opposition  Labour Party  increased its lead in opinion polls.
Cameron is nursing the fallout from negative reaction to his tax
cuts for the rich and countering suggestions that the government
improperly favored  News Corp . in a takeover battle.  Bank of England policy maker  David Miles  signaled in an
interview this week that a renewed slump could hurt sentiment, a
concern echoed yesterday by the  Confederation of British
Industry , the nation’s biggest business lobby. A drop in
confidence could prompt companies to rein in investment and
consumers to curtail spending.  Short-Lived Increase  Nationwide Building Society  said today that its  consumer
confidence index  rose to a nine-month high of 53 in March from
44 in February. Still, the increase in the measure, based on a
survey conducted Feb. 20 to March 25, could be “short-lived.”  The GDP data are “likely to damp sentiment in the near
term, both in terms of consumers and in terms of businesses,”
said Nationwide Chief Economist Robert Gardner. “The fact the
economic backdrop is still very difficult is clearly going to be
the main thing holding back spending.”  The  Office for National Statistics  said yesterday the
economy shrank in the three months through March as construction
slumped 3 percent, the most in three years. In addition,
services, the biggest part of the economy, grew just 0.1
percent. The report was preliminary and the data may be revised.  Damage Done  Bank of England  Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  was among
officials and economists warning that a construction slump could
lead to a drop in gross domestic product. Policy makers said in
the minutes of their April meeting that the economy could shrink
in the first and second quarters, undermining confidence “even
if the underlying pace of economic expansion were stronger.”  CBI Chief Economic Adviser Ian McCafferty said that even if
the statistics office revises the GDP number up, the damage to
confidence may already be done.  “There is clearly a risk” the negative data could affect
business sentiment “given that confidence is still fragile,”
he said in London. While a CBI index published yesterday showed
that manufacturing sentiment rose to the highest in two years in
April, McCafferty said the outlook “will remain uncertain until
the euro-zone crisis is resolved.”  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , the U.K.’s largest drugmaker, reported
first-quarter profit and sales yesterday that missed analyst
estimates as revenue declined in a “challenging” Europe.  Losing Support  Cameron and Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  have
lost public support over their March 21 budget, which voters say
helped the rich at the expense of pensioners and charities, and
the handling of a threatened strike by tanker-truck drivers.
Their Conservative-led coalition is also under fire for
ministerial ties to  Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp. The opposition
Labour Party led the Tories by 41 percent to 33 percent in an
ICM Ltd. poll published yesterday.  In response to accusations in Parliament yesterday from
Labour lawmakers that he is out of touch with the concerns of
ordinary Britons, Cameron said that the U.K. now faced “a very
tough situation that, frankly, just got tougher.” He still
pledged to stick to his deficit-cutting plans.  Cameron will use a speech in  London  today to highlight
Britain’s ability to attract investment and say that renewable
energy companies have invested 4.7 billion pounds ($7.6 billion)
in the U.K. in the past year, supporting 15,000 jobs. He will
also announce new contracts worth 350 million pounds and 800
jobs, according to a statement released by his office.  Longest Slump  Britain was hit hard by the financial crisis and GDP is
still 4.3 percent below its pre-recession peak at the end of
2007. It means the British economy has had its longest peacetime
slump for a century. Each of the four previous recessions since
the 1920s saw output return to pre-slump levels within four
years, according to the National Institute of Economic and
Social Research.  The latest setback to the recovery adds to the case for the
government to pull back from its austerity program, said Chris Scicluna, head of economic research at Daiwa Capital Markets
 Europe  in London and a former U.K. Treasury official  “That would be the appropriate thing to do, but would
represent a significant political U-turn and one that would be
very uncomfortable for him to engineer,” he said. “You can
defend it in terms of the economy but it would suggest that his
strategy was misplaced.”  Cameron said his policy is supporting the economy by
keeping government bond yields low and that abandoning austerity
would trigger a loss of confidence among international investors
and push up borrowing costs. The yield on the 10-year gilt was
at 2.16 percent as of 8:47 a.m. in London. That compares with an
average 3.75 percent over the last five years.  “The austerity plan is the coalition’s economic raison
d’etre,” said Simon Wells, chief U.K. economist at HSBC
Holdings Plc in London and a former Bank of England official.
“I don’t see them abandoning that easily, and they have at
least until the autumn statement in November to hope that things
improve.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  