-- Canadian Dollar Reaches 7-Month High on Global Stocks
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-04-25T21:16:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/canadian-dollar-touches-highest-since-march-on-stocks.html
Canada ’s dollar strengthened to a
seven-month high against its U.S, counterpart on speculation
equities gains signal the global economic growth outlook is
improving, bolstering prospects for the nation’s exports.  The Canadian dollar rallied against most of its major peers
and is headed for a 1.5 percent gain this month versus the
greenback, trailing only the yen. It remained higher after the
 Federal Reserve  refrained from additional stimulus measures
including further asset purchases as policy makers said they
expect economic growth to gradually accelerate.  “Risk assets will fade a bit if there is little or no hint
of additional easing measures,” said  Shaun Osborne , chief
currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities
unit, via e-mail. “The statement was not greatly changed from
last time around and gave no indication of any change in FOMC
thinking.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie, touched 98.23
cents per  U.S. dollar , the strongest since Sept. 19, before
trading 0.4 percent higher at 98.33 cents at 5 p.m. in Toronto.
One Canadian dollar buys $1.0170.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.4 percent. The MSCI
World Index advanced 1.1 percent.  Currency Forecast  The loonie will strengthen to 98 cents per U.S. dollar by
year end, according to the median of 40 forecasts compiled by
Bloomberg.  Canada has the second-fastest gross domestic product growth
after  Germany  among Group of Seven nations and may be the first
to raise  interest rates  later this year, swaps trading shows.  “The Canadian dollar, which is already being coveted on a
relative-value basis, is attracting more bids,” said  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange at National Bank of
Canada in Toronto, in a telephone interview. “We like Canada,
both against the U.S. dollar and selectively on the crosses.”
Cross-trades are currency transactions that don’t involve the
U.S. dollar.  Fed policy makers led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  are
holding off on additional steps to boost the economy amid signs
the more than two-year expansion is gaining strength. Still, the
jobless rate isn’t declining fast enough to satisfy central
bankers, who repeated their view today that U.S. borrowing costs
are likely to remain “exceptionally low” at least through late
2014.  Bonds Fall  Canadian 10-year  government bonds  fell, pushing the yield
to 2.11 percent, up three basis points. The 3.25 percent
securities maturing in June 2021 fell 27 cents to C$109.49.  Federal  government bonds  have lost 0.9 percent this year,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Canadian
Governments index.  Canada sold C$2.9 billion ($3 billion) of  three-year bonds 
at an average yield of 1.598 percent. The debt matures in August
2015.  Ontario Premier Dalton McGuinty’s agreement to secure
support of the opposition New  Democratic Party  for his budget
boosted the province’s bonds on expectations higher revenue will
help narrow its deficit.  McGuinty won approval from lawmakers on a key budget vote
yesterday after agreeing to a 2 percent surtax on people earning
more than C$500,000 a year, meeting a key demand of NDP Leader
 Andrea Horwath .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  