-- Caterpillar Revenue Misses Estimates as China Sales Slow
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2012-04-25T20:33:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/caterpillar-raises-forecast-as-construction-sales-rise.html
Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the world’s
largest maker of construction equipment, reported a gain in
first-quarter revenue that was less than analysts estimated
after sales fell in China and  Brazil .  Revenue climbed 23 percent to $16 billion, the Peoria,
Illinois-based company said in a statement today. The average of
13  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg was for $16.1 billion. Net
income rose to $2.37 a share, beating the $2.13 average of 21
estimates. Caterpillar raised its full-year profit forecast
while maintaining its projected 2012 sales. The shares fell the
most in seven months.  “They still reported a big number but lower than expected
on near-term softness in China and Brazil,” Larry De Maria, a
New York-based analyst for William Blair & Co. who recommends
buying the shares, said in an interview. “There was no change
to the top-line guidance. People want to see the whole thing.”  Caterpillar says sales in developing nations this year will
be lower than anticipated, a reversal after 2011 growth in  Latin
America  and the Asia-Pacific region outpaced  North America ,
helping to drive record revenue and profit. The company is the
latest manufacturer to report sales in China have been curbed.
United Technologies Corp. yesterday posted a drop in Chinese
orders while 3M Co. forecast below-trend growth in the country.  U.S. Sales  Caterpillar fell 4.6 percent to $103.44 at the close in  New
York , the biggest decline since Sept. 22.  China accounted for 3 percent of first-quarter sales,
Michael DeWalt, Caterpillar’s director of  investor relations ,
said today on a conference call. Chinese sales fell by $250
million to $300 million, the company said.  The company’s sales of excavators in China fell 51 percent
in March from a year earlier, Jefferies said in an April 11
report that cited  China  Construction Machinery Association data.
The industry has “too much inventory” in the country and
Caterpillar plans to move some excavators to other regions,
DeWalt said.  China’s effect on Caterpillar goes beyond just the sales of
machinery in the country because its consumption of commodities
drives mining globally, Chief Financial Officer Ed Rapp said in
a telephone interview today.  China represents almost 40 percent of global base-metals
use and a sustained slowdown may impact mining-equipment demand,
according to Karen Ubelhart, a New York-based analyst at
Bloomberg Industries.  Mining Deals  Caterpillar Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Doug Oberhelman has bet on growth in mining with the $8.8 billion
purchase in July of Bucyrus International Inc. and the proposed
acquisition of Hong Kong-based  ERA Mining Machinery Ltd. (8043)   Caterpillar isn’t seeing signs that China’s cooling economy
is slowing global mining-equipment demand, Rapp said.  “If you look at it from a demand on commodities
perspective, China is continuing to grow,” he said.  Caterpillar maintained its full-year sales forecast of $68
billion to $72 billion and raised the full-year profit outlook
to about $9.50 a share. That compares with the  previous
projection  of $9.25 and the average estimate of $9.57 from 22
analysts.  Caterpillar’s ability to increase profit from new sales has
improved, said  Joel Levington , managing director of corporate
credit at Brookfield Investment Management Inc. in New York.  Process Improvement  “The operating leverage Caterpillar achieved was better
than we expected, and demonstrates improvement in their
processes, which can help the company sustain earnings
momentum,” Levington said in an e-mail.  The company is still selling more excavators, dozers and
 dump trucks  as the U.S. building industry recovers. Construction
spending was 6 percent higher in February compared with a year
earlier, U.S. Census Bureau data show. .  Caterpillar said that while the North American construction
equipment rental fleet has increased slightly in size from post-
recession lows, the average age of the machines is still close
to a historical high.  The average age of the fleet is about 52 months, close to
the peak of about 53 months, Barclays Plc said in an April 16
report. An estimated 200,000 units need to be bought annually to
maintain that age, Barclays said.  Increasing demand and a record backlog of orders have
spurred Caterpillar to increase its workforce to build more
excavators and wheel loaders. U.S. headcount rose by more than
6,500 in the last year, excluding acquisitions, and is up about
7,200 in other countries.  The company’s capital expenditure this year will be $4
billion, unchanged from the prior estimates, with about half of
that in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in  Chicago  at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 