-- Cattle Rebound From Biggest Drop in 10 Months on Mad Cow
-- B y   J a e   H u r ,   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l   a n d   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-04-25T20:11:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/cattle-rebound-from-biggest-drop-in-11-months-on-mad-cow.html
Cattle futures rebounded from a
nine-month low as countries from Canada to Japan said they’ll
continue to import American beef after the U.S. reported its
first case of mad cow disease in six years.  Canada,  Mexico , Japan and  South Korea , the four biggest
buyers of U.S. beef last year, said they won’t halt purchases
after the disease, known as bovine spongiform encephalopathy,
was found in a dairy cow in central California. No meat from the
animal entered the human food chain, John Clifford, the U.S.
Department of Agriculture’s chief veterinarian, said yesterday.  U.S.  beef  exports at a record 2.79 billion pounds (1.27
million metric tons) in 2011 had just returned to levels
achieved before the first BSE case in the U.S., discovered in
December 2003, USDA data show. Exports tumbled from 2.52 billion
pounds in 2003, the previous all-time high, to just 460.3
million in 2004, as countries including  Japan ,  China  and Taiwan
put restrictions in place. Last year,  shipments  were worth a
record $5.42 billion, according to  data  from the U.S. Meat
Export Federation, a trade group.  Futures rebounded today as “the emotion of this scare is
being relieved,” Paul Georgy, the president of brokerage
Allendale Inc., said by telephone from McHenry,  Illinois .
“Countries like Mexico, Japan and South Korea have said that
they will not halt imports, although South Korea said they were
going to step up checks.”  Live-cattle futures for June delivery climbed 0.6 percent
to settle at $1.12275 a pound by 1 p.m. on the  Chicago 
Mercantile Exchange. The price yesterday tumbled the exchange’s
3-cent limit to settle at $1.11575, the lowest for a most-active
contract since July 1. The commodity has dropped 15 percent
since reaching a record $1.315 on Feb. 22.  Fourth Case  This is the fourth confirmed case of the brain-wasting
disease in the U.S. cattle herd since the first discovery in
December 2003, in an animal that came from  Canada .  The North American country bought $1.03 billion in U.S.
beef last year, according to the U.S. Meat Export Federation.
Canada has had 19 cases as of February 2011, according to the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  U.S. trade with its northern neighbor “will not be
impacted” by the BSE finding,  Canada ’s Agriculture Minister
Gerry Ritz said today in an e-mailed statement. The  Agriculture
Ministry  in Mexico, the second biggest buyer, said it expects
its cattle trade with the U.S. to remain unchanged.  Japan won’t suspend imports because shipments are made
under a framework that assumes the disease isn’t eradicated,
Minoru Yamamoto, director at the farm ministry’s international
 animal health  affairs office, said today. Before yesterday’s
discovery, the health ministry was planning to relax the import
restriction after getting approval from the nation’s Food Safety
Commission, Hideshi Michino , director at the ministry’s import
food safety office, said on April 11.  Japanese Restrictions  Japan restricts U.S. beef imports to cattle 20-months-old
or younger as older animals are at higher risk of having the
disease. The regulation was put in place before the Asian
country resumed purchases in 2005 of American beef, which had
been banned after of the first case was discovered in the U.S.
 Taiwan  now allows beef imports from cattle younger than 30-
months-old.  Price Rebound  “The rebound came as major Asian buyers, including Japan,
said they were not taking any measures against U.S. beef
imports,” said Toshimitsu Kawanabe, an analyst at broker
Central Shoji Co. “This may not last long as consumers in those
importing nations will shy away from U.S. beef on food safety
concerns and seek other origins, such as Australian beef.”  South Korea, the fourth-largest buyer of U.S. beef, may
strengthen quarantine inspections of the meat, Lee Byoung Guan,
deputy director for planning and coordination at the Animal
Plant & Fisheries Quarantine & Inspection Agency, said by phone
today. Customs clearance of shipments hasn’t been halted, he
said. Earlier today, Park Sang Ho, an official at South Korea’s
farm ministry, said inspections would be suspended. He wasn’t
available on his office or mobile phone later in the day.  Taiwan doesn’t plan to change existing rules, said Tai Yu-
yen, chief secretary of the Council of Agriculture. European
Union spokesman  Frederic Vincent  said the EU plans no measures
in response to the case.  California Plant  Baker Commodities Inc. said the case was at its Hanford
deadstock plant, where dead livestock are held before going to a
rendering plant. The animal arrived at the plant April 18 and
all test samples are sent to the University of  California  at
Davis, the company said.  The finding shows surveillance is working, which should
give confidence to trading partners, according to the  United
Nations ’ Food & Agriculture Organization. The case shouldn’t
have implications for the U.S. status of “controlled risk” for
BSE, the World Organisation for Animal Health said.  U.S. beef is “very safe” and “firewalls” put in place
ensure that there are no health concerns, Joel Haggard, Asia-
Pacific vice president of the U.S. Meat Export Federation, said
in an interview with Bloomberg Television.  The news came “at the very tail-end of what is a major
downward correction,”  Dennis Smith , a senior account executive
at Archer Financial Services in Chicago, said in a phone
interview. Prices have fallen 7.3 percent this year.  The cow that tested positive for mad cow “didn’t come
anywhere near the food chain,” Troy Vetterkind, the owner of
Vetterkind Cattle Brokerage, said in a phone interview from
Chicago yesterday. “The government, the USDA, their inspection
service did their job. It’s a non-event in my opinion.”  Quarantine Strengthened  South Korea’s government should immediately halt imports of
U.S. beef, the Hanwoo Association, which represents local cattle
breeders, said in a statement on its website.  “It’s a political economy story. It’s not a public health
story,” Daniel Pinkston, an analyst at the  International Crisis
Group , said today. “Farmers and livestock ranchers in South
Korea have political clout, political influence.”  Seoul-based  Harim Co. (136480) , a maker of canned chicken breasts
and nuggets, rose 3.2 percent and Seoul-based  Dong Won Fisheries
Co. (030720) , a deep-sea fishing company, gained 15 percent in trading in
the city on speculation demand for poultry and seafood will
increase. Tokyo-based Yoshinoya Holdings Co., a Japanese beef-
bowl chain, fell as much as 3.7 percent, the most in a year in
trading there.  In 2003, after the first case of the disease, dozens of
countries shut their doors to U.S. shipments. Losses to
livestock producers and meatpackers ranged from $2.5 billion to
$3.1 billion annually from 2004 through 2007, according to the
 International Trade Commission . Nations including China have
maintained some restrictions ever since.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jae Hur in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in  London . 