-- Caveman Diet, Barefoot Running Help Man Get Healthy
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-04-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/caveman-diet-barefoot-running-help-skinny-fat-man-get-healthy.html
“Eat right and exercise” doesn’t
sound so hard. In practice, though, it can be excruciating.
That’s the message of  A.J. Jacobs ’s new memoir, “ Drop Dead
Healthy .”  Jacobs, who describes himself as “skinny fat,” had begun
worrying that he might not be around for major milestones in his
children’s lives.  And so, since he’s a pioneer in the field of doing extreme
things and then writing books about them -- reading the entire
Encyclopedia Britannica for “ The Know-It-All ,” following every
rule in the Bible for “ The Year of Living Biblically ” -- he
decided to pursue health as far as he possibly could.  This is not a science book or a how-to guide. Although
Jacobs talks with experts and notes some studies, his
experiments frequently skew toward the faddish -- the ultra-low-
carb caveman diet, barefoot running, a juice fast.  At first, this troubled me, though fads are more
entertaining than solid science. But I soon realized that Jacobs
was approaching “being healthy” the way most people do -- in
fits and starts, trying to figure out what works for him.  To his credit, he’s clear with the caveats to his more
outlandish approaches. He’s also a genial, amusing narrator who
has the grace to give his wife all the best punch lines.  Ultimately, Jacobs’s goal is to find sustainable habits. He
isn’t hawking one approach; he’s trying to find out what he can
stand to do every day, possibly for decades.  Taking the Plunge  And so we see him doing a triathlon and being freaked out
by the icy water off  New York ’s  Staten Island , hating the
Blueprint Cleanse, and worrying about what it means not to have
been breast-fed. Unlike the guys on the covers of fitness
magazines, Jacobs isn’t trying to prove it’s easy to stay on the
healthy straight-and-narrow.  Most affecting are the sections of the book he devotes to
his aging grandfather, which are considerably more open and less
jokey. When his grandfather dies, Jacobs grieves -- and falls
off the health wagon. Getting back on it is difficult, though he
manages. These passages are a wonderful homage to a man Jacobs
clearly admired.  His emotional honesty is echoed by another kind: the book
opens with a photo of Jacobs’s shirtless gut. The thought of
taking a similar photo, much less publishing my weight every
month, makes me break into a cold sweat.  In appendices, Jacobs rounds up sane tips for general well-
being, many of which are supported by strong science: eat
mindfully, reduce stress through meditation and self-massage,
and give yourself motivation (perhaps by writing a check for a
donation to an organization you find noxious -- he picks the Ku
Klux Klan -- and having someone mail it if you don’t make your
goal).  But that’s not the point of the book, really. Acquiring
healthy habits isn’t easy, but Jacobs makes it feel like
something that’s within reach of any Joe or Jill Couch Potato.
That’s an accomplishment worth admiring.  “Drop Dead Healthy: One Man’s Humble Quest for Bodily
Perfection” is published by  Simon & Schuster  (402 pages, $26).
To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Elizabeth Lopatto is a reporter for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  James Pressley ’s business book
reviews and  Ryan Sutton  on dining.  To contact the writer of this column:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 