-- Census Bureau Says 1 in 10 Marriages Are Interracial
-- B y   F r a n k   B a s s
-- 2012-04-25T19:15:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/census-bureau-says-1-in-10-marriages-are-interracial.html
The number of interracial married
couples in the U.S. jumped by almost one-third during the last
decade to include almost 1 of every 10 family households, the
 Census Bureau  said today.  Couples consisting of white non-Hispanics and Hispanics
made up the largest share of interracial households, accounting
for 37.6 percent of the tally. Households consisting of Asians
and whites were the second-most common, at 13.7 percent of
interracial couples, the bureau said. Marriages between blacks
and whites made up about 8 percent of interracial households.  The ranks of unmarried interracial couples rose to 18
percent from 15 percent in 2000. About 21 percent of same-sex
unmarried couples consisted of people of different races or
ethnicities.  “Households are becoming more diverse,” Daphne Lofquist,
a statistician with the bureau’s fertility and family statistics
branch, said in a telephone briefing.  States with the highest percentage of mixed-race couples
were primarily in the West and Southwestern U.S., the bureau
said.  Even with diverse family relationships becoming more
common, the  Census Bureau  said nonfamily households grew twice
as fast as family households from 2000. The 39 million nonfamily
households represented a 16 percent increase compared with the 8
percent increase to about 78 million for families. There were
116.7 million total households in the U.S. in 2010.  Below 50 Percent  The growth in nonfamily households has come at the expense
of married-couple households, which fell below 50 percent of all
U.S. households for the first time since the Census Bureau began
collecting family relationship data in 1940.  “It’s one of the biggest changes we’ve seen over the 20th
century, and it continues into the 21st century,” Lofquist
said.  Nonfamily households, which primarily include people living
alone, were most common in the upper Midwest, which has higher
concentrations of senior citizens, and along the East Coast,
with young professionals. Atlanta, Washington, D.C., Cincinnati,
and Alexandria,  Virginia , had the highest percentages of single-
person households, with individuals making up more than 43
percent of all households.  Explaining the draw of the nation’s capital, Rose Kreider,
chief of the bureau’s fertility and family statistics branch,
said, “The population has a lot of people who come there to
start their careers.”  The report also showed the number of multigenerational
households grew to 5.1 million in 2010, a 30.8 percent
increase from 2000. Families with more than two generations
living together now account for 4.4 percent of all households.
Hawaii had the highest percentage, with 1 in 12 households
consisting of multigenerational families.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frank Bass in New York at 
 fbass1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark McQuillan in  Washington  at 
 mmcquillan@bloomberg.net  