-- CFPB-Arbitration Clauses, Swap Rules, Bonus Bonds: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-04-25T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/cfpb-arbitration-clauses-swap-rules-bonus-bonds-compliance.html
The U.S. Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau is seeking comment on the use of clauses that
require consumers to resolve disputes with companies through
arbitration rather than through the court system.  CFPB Director  Richard Cordray  said yesterday in an e-mail
statement announcing the request that the bureau wants to assess
whether rules are needed with respect to arbitration clauses.
Comments are due to the agency by June 23.  Mandatory arbitration clauses are used for products
including credit cards, checking accounts and payday loans.  The bureau didn’t say when it would complete its study,
which is required under the Dodd-Frank Act. Under the 2010 law,
the consumer bureau can ban or condition the use of mandatory
arbitration in financial-services contracts, consistent with the
results of the study.  Compliance Policy  CFTC May Vote on Swap Rule Delay Provision Through December  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission may vote to
delay some Dodd-Frank Act derivatives regulations from taking
effect until as late as the end of the year, a person briefed on
the matter said.  The agency’s commissioners may consider an order providing
temporary relief from provisions scheduled to take effect July
16, according to the person, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the process is private. The order would be open to
public comment before completion.  The agency has previously provided relief from provisions
that were set to take effect in July 2011 to give commissioners
more time to consider rules. The new order may provide relief
from the provisions through December unless the provisions are
effective earlier, the person said.  The CFTC is preparing to complete regulations governing
capital and margin requirements in non-cleared trades as well as
the international reach of regulations. Commissioners may decide
to limit the reach of Dodd-Frank swap rules to allow U.S.
regulators more time to determine the comparability of overseas
regulations, the person said.  The Washington-based agency that is writing derivatives
regulations is also considering a proposal that would include a
phased-in compliance system.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and other banks have said U.S. regulators will hurt
their ability to compete with overseas rivals if the rules apply
to foreign-based subsidiaries.  Compliance Action  Wal-Mart Bribery Probe Seen as Examining Coverup Claims  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  may spend hundreds of millions of
dollars investigating $24 million in alleged Mexican bribes as
the U.S. government weighs whether the company or executives
also broke the law by covering up an internal probe, former
federal prosecutors said.  The company said it’s aiding U.S. probes of payments
detailed April 21 in the  New York  Times. The newspaper said  Wal-
Mart de Mexico  failed to fully investigate the bribe claims as
well as well as $16 million in “donations” to Mexican local
governments to fuel store expansion in the country up to 2005.  Wal-Mart disclosed the payments to the  Justice Department 
and U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, according to a
December 2011 regulatory filing, and said its outside advisers
are briefing the agencies on its own probe. Prosecutors will
want to know why Wal-Mart didn’t fully examine claims in 2005 by
a company lawyer that he funneled bribes to Mexican officials,
said  Paul Pelletier , a former federal prosecutor.  The Justice Department is investigating potential criminal
charges under the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, according
to a person familiar with the probe who wasn’t authorized to
speak publicly. The FCPA bans payments by companies or their
agents to foreign governments to obtain or retain business.  The company said it created a new position to monitor
global compliance with the FCPA.  For more, click here.  Credit Suisse Bonus Bonds Lead Embrace of ‘Capital Relief’  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ’s $750 million in bonuses given this
year in the form of bonds, while compensating employees, also
played a role in shifting risk in derivatives trading.  The securities shielded the Zurich-based bank from
potential losses on $16 billion of derivatives trades -- and
reduced its capital needs -- by shifting some of the risk onto
employees, people with knowledge of the matter said. Instead of
the company bearing the full brunt of any trades where customers
failed to pay up, bonus recipients will share the cost.  The bonds are part of a resurgence in “regulatory capital
relief transactions,” created by bankers looking to cut risk
and build cushions against losses without diluting shareholders,
selling assets or scaling back trades and loans. Some of
Europe’s biggest banks including  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Standard
Chartered Plc (STAN)  and Commerzbank AG are paying investors and
employees interest rates as high as 15 percent in return for
agreeing to share losses on at least $30 billion of assets.  Using techniques similar to the ones that packaged
mortgages into bonds, lenders are turning holdings of corporate
loans, export-import credit or derivatives-trading gains into
triple-A securities.  The practice has drawn scrutiny from regulators in the U.K.  For more, click here.  Courts  Indian Court Delays Cancellation of Phone Licenses by 3 Months  India’s Supreme Court postponed by three months the
deadline for cancellation of 122 mobile-phone licenses to Sept.
7 and said the government must complete its auction of the
wireless airwaves within that time.  Supreme Court Judge G.S. Singhvi rejected the government’s
request for a 400-day window to complete the auction of the
canceled airwaves permits. The court had earlier set a four-
month deadline for the completion of the auction.  Companies including Norway’s  Telenor ASA (TEL) , Russia’s  AFK
Sistema (AFKS)  and  Emirates Telecommunications Corp. (ETISALAT) , or Etisalat, will
now gain an extra three months to continue providing services to
their Indian subscribers, while considering their options.
Yesterday’s decision comes almost a month before the Supreme
Court’s June 2 auction deadline, set in February.  Telenor spokesman Glenn Mandelid didn’t answer two calls to
his mobile phone.  Goldman Sachs Wins Dismissal of Claim in ACA Financial Suit  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. won the dismissal of a claim in a
lawsuit brought by ACA Financial Guaranty Corp. over a mortgage-
based investment that led to a settlement with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  ACA Financial sued Goldman Sachs in New York State Supreme
Court in January 2011 in connection with a collateralized debt
obligation known as Abacus.  Justice Barbara Kapnick threw out one of the claims in an
order dated yesterday, saying that the plaintiffs failed to
establish that Goldman Sachs was unjustly enriched at ACA
Financial’s expense. Kapnick declined to dismiss the other two
claims in the complaint, which allege fraudulent concealment and
fraudulent concealment.  Goldman Sachs, based in New York, agreed in July 2010 to
pay $550 million, the largest penalty ever assessed by the
agency against a Wall Street firm, to settle allegations against
it involving Abacus.  The case is ACA Financial v. Goldman Sachs & Co.,
650027/2011, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  Interviews/Hearings  MF Global Executives Will Not Receive Bonus Money, Trustee Says  Senior  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  executives still working at
the bankrupt firm will not receive bonuses, the company’s
trustee told lawmakers at a hearing on  Capitol Hill .  Louis Freeh , the former Federal Bureau of Investigation
director serving as trustee for the New York-based firm,
committed to lawmakers that he wouldn’t award bonuses to current
or former employees in the wake of reports that compensation
packages for Chief Operating Officer Bradley Abelow, General
Counsel Laurie Ferber and Chief Financial Officer Henri J.
Steenkamp were being prepared.  “It was never my intention” to pay out bonus money to
executives from the firm, Freeh told members of the  Senate
Banking Committee  at a hearing today. Freeh committed to
lawmakers that he would not distribute bonus money to current or
former MF Global employees.  MF Global Holdings, once run by Jon S. Corzine, a Democrat
who served in the Senate before serving as New Jersey’s
governor, filed the eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy on Oct. 31
after getting margin calls and bank demands for money at its
brokerage unit, MF Global Inc. While the holding company is
returning funds to creditors under Freeh in a Chapter 11
bankruptcy, the brokerage unit is returning funds to customers.  U.S. lawmakers seized on the bonus issue last month. The
Senate adopted a non-binding resolution objecting to the
distribution of bonus money.  Rewrite Dated U.S. Telecommunications Law, Diller Urges Senate  IAC/Interactive Corp. (IACI)  Chairman Barry Diller, who’s
distributing television channels online, urged U.S. legislators
to rewrite communications laws to reflect blurring lines between
Internet, cable and broadcast providers.  “You’ve got to rewrite the communications act” of 1996,
Diller, whose company has invested in a service that lets users
watch broadcast TV on mobile devices, said at a  hearing 
yesterday before the Senate Commerce Committee. “It’s overdue
given the Internet.”  Diller was among witnesses called to a hearing to examine
how new Internet-driven technology is changing television
viewing. Also asked to appear were executives from  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) , whose Xbox gaming platform can be used to watch movies
and TV shows, and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , which offers online video for
purchase or rent.  Jay Rockefeller , the West Virginia Democrat who is chairman
of the committee, told reporters after the hearing that the
rapidly evolving communications landscape “will require
legislation.” No telecommunications update will pass this year,
Rockefeller said, because it is “not a simple business” and it
“raises a lot of questions” that can’t be answered
legislatively at this point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  