-- CFTC Said to Debate Small-Bank Clearing Exemption in Dodd-Frank
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-04-25T17:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/cftc-said-to-debate-small-bank-clearing-exemption-in-dodd-frank.html
The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  is poised to consider a rule that could require
smaller banks to clear swaps and comply with higher collateral
standards under the Dodd-Frank Act, according to two people
briefed on the measure.  The so-called end-user rule, which may come up for a final
vote next month, will determine when companies must use
clearinghouses to reduce risk in trades. Dodd-Frank, the 2010
regulatory overhaul, requires the CFTC to consider a small-bank
exemption that isn’t currently in the measure, according to the
people, who requested anonymity because the process isn’t
public. The agency is debating whether to include an exemption,
according to a third person.  Banks with as much as $50 billion in assets are urging the
CFTC to exempt them from the clearing requirement, arguing that
their trades don’t pose the financial-system risk the law is
meant to rein in. Lenders including Los Angeles-based  City
National Bank , San Antonio-based Frost National Bank and
 Susquehanna Bank  of Lititz,  Pennsylvania , have told regulators
they should be considered end-users of swaps.  “These small institutions use derivatives in a limited --
but necessary -- fashion,” U.S. Senator Robert Casey told the
CFTC in an Aug. 2 letter. “Small institutions do not engage in
trades of the size or scope necessary to create systemic risk,”
the Pennsylvania Democrat wrote.  Derivatives, including swaps, are financial instruments
used to hedge risks or for speculation. They’re based on stocks,
bonds, loans, currencies and commodities, or linked to specific
events such as interest-rate changes.  The CFTC is working to complete Dodd-Frank rules to reduce
risk and boost transparency in the $708 trillion swaps market
after unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis.  Flexible Threshold  Dodd-Frank calls for most derivatives trades to be moved
into clearinghouses, though Congress asked regulators for some
exemptions, notably for end users. The law authorizes the CFTC
to consider exempting banks with assets of $10 billion or less.  Congressional lawmakers have told regulators that the
threshold is flexible, and banks have urged that it be raised to
as much as $50 billion.  The CFTC proposed an end-user exception in December 2010
without seeking comment on a specific exemption for small banks.  “At the end of the day there are going to be rules that
come out on this small bank, small farm credit, small credit
union provision,” CFTC chairman  Gary Gensler   said  at a Dec. 9,
2010 meeting. “I don’t think we should necessarily delay.”  The CFTC hasn’t proposed an exemption since that meeting,
and smaller banks have continued to lobby regulators.  The prospect of a U.S. small-bank exemption has prompted
objections from Jonathan Faull, the European Commission’s
director general for financial services.  “The adoption of a small-bank exemption would cause
serious concern,” Faull wrote in a March 16 letter to Gensler.
“This would lead to a significant increase in systemic risk, a
potential for unlevel playing-fields between US and EU banks,
and scope for regulatory arbitrage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  