-- Chained CPI Switch Is a Slam Dunk, Even in Election Year
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-04-25T23:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/chained-cpi-switch-is-a-slam-dunk-even-in-election-year.html
Sadly, Congress and the White House
seem incapable of agreeing on substantive measures to tackle the
 $10.4 trillion  mountain of  U.S. debt .  But there is one long-overdue piece of important business
that can and should get done: The adoption of a more accurate
gauge of U.S. inflation that would yield immediate savings and
help put the economy on firmer ground. The fix has already been
endorsed by lawmakers in both parties, the Obama administration,
many economists and a series of bipartisan deficit-reduction
panels. Best of all, it would help shore up Social Security.
Trustees for the retirement fund on April 23 projected it would
run dry in 2033, three years earlier than last year’s forecast.  It has been widely recognized for almost two decades that
the current measure, the  consumer price index , contains several
biases that cause it to overstate inflation anywhere from 0.3
percentage point to  0.8 percentage point , depending on which
expert you talk to. The miscalculation has damaging consequences
for the  U.S. economy . The CPI is the benchmark that determines
cost-of-living adjustments for a wide range of government
programs, including Social Security and federal employee
pensions. It also is used to peg income-tax brackets,
exemptions, deductions and credits.  Consumer Behavior  A more accurate measure has long been available in the form
of the chained CPI, which corrects for one of the most prominent
distortions -- the failure to track changes in consumer
behavior. To calculate the  standard CPI , Bureau of Labor
Statistics employees shop for a market basket of 80,000 goods
and services that are weighted to reflect consumer-spending
patterns. Since 2002, the BLS has also compiled the  chained CPI ,
a more exact measure that accounts for the substitutions
consumers make when a product’s price goes up. A shopper might
respond to an increase in the cost of Granny Smith apples, for
example, by switching to lower-cost Red Delicious, a process
known as lower-level substitution. Or a consumer might react to
a price increase in one item by switching to another category
altogether, say less-expensive oranges instead of pricier apples
-- called upper-level substitution.  While the standard CPI largely maintains the same basket of
goods regardless of price changes, the alternative measure more
accurately models substitution behavior by “chaining” two
consecutive months of price data and adjusting the weights to
account for a decrease in purchases of the more expensive
product and increased purchases of the lower-cost substitute
(more oranges, fewer apples).  On average, the BLS’s chained CPI has been  0.25 percentage
point to 0.35  percentage point lower than the standard CPI. That
doesn’t sound like much, yet switching to the alternate measure
would produce as much as $300 billion in savings and revenue
within a decade. The  Congressional Budget Office  has estimated
that using the chained CPI to set cost-of-living increases for
Social Security alone would save $ 112 billion  from 2012 to 2021.
An additional $33 billion could be saved by applying the measure
to other federal spending.  Those estimates alone should make the chained CPI a slam
dunk. The effect on  tax collection  would also be dramatic. The
switch would mean smaller annual adjustments to tax thresholds.
Many people’s wages would rise faster than the new inflation
index, pushing them into higher tax brackets and producing as
much as $90 billion in new revenue over 10 years. It would also
reduce interest payments on the debt by about $44 billion.  Political Cover  Making this change wouldn’t require an extraordinary act of
political courage. The adoption of the chained CPI has been an
element of every serious bipartisan deficit-reduction plan of
recent years, including those of  Alan Simpson  and  Erskine Bowles , Alice M. Rivlin and Pete V. Domenici, as well as the
“Gang of Six” led by Senators Mark Warner and  Saxby Chambliss .
It also was among the ideas very nearly agreed on during last
summer’s debt-limit negotiations between the White House and
 House Republicans .  Moreover, it has found favor with think tanks of the left,
such as the Center for American Progress, that usually oppose
anything resembling a benefit cut, and those of the right, such
as the  Heritage Foundation , which typically bristle at proposals
that can be construed as tax increases.  AARP  and other groups have raised legitimate concerns that
the new inflation measure would reduce future Social Security
payouts. Those concerns could be addressed by  improving benefits 
for low-income seniors. In any case, the Social Security
trustees’ report this week provides ample evidence that a quick
correction is needed now.  Refining an economic gauge that is as fundamental as the
CPI is simple common sense. It is understandable that a vigorous
debate has erupted over just how much inflation -- if any -- is
desirable or tolerable in our economy. But that discussion is
entirely separate from the important step we are recommending:
Let’s make sure the measure we use is accurate.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  dealing with China ;  Noah
Feldman  on  Arizona immigration arguments ;  Caroline Baum  on the
 fiscal future ;  Ezra Klein  on  money and politics ;  Susan Crawford 
on  cyber protection ; Steven Neil Kaplan on  inequality and
unemployment ; Jared Diamond on the roots of  Japan’s economic
malaise .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  