-- Chile Peso Gains as Copper and Emerging Currencies Rise on Fed
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-04-25T18:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/chile-peso-gains-as-copper-and-emerging-currencies-rise-on-fed.html
Chile’s peso gained for a second
day after reaching a four-week low as copper rose and emerging-
market currencies rallied ahead of comments from Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke .  The peso gained 0.3 percent to 486.45 per  U.S. dollar .
Copper, Chile’s biggest export, rose as much as 1.1 percent to
$3.723 a pound in  New York .  Stocks (SPX)  in the U.S. climbed the most in a week after Apple
Inc., the world’s most valuable company, said demand for iPhones
drove a 94 percent jump in quarterly profit. The dollar weakened
against major trading counterparts and 15 of 25 leading
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg appreciated as
traders waited for a speech in which the Fed chairman may
reiterate a pledge to keep  interest rates  low in the world’s
biggest economy.  “This is a continuation of the retracement from 490,”
said Katia Diaz, an economist at 4Cast Inc. in New York. Stocks
“got a boost from Apple earnings and the weak durable goods
data in the U.S. doesn’t seem to have had much impact.”  Orders for U.S.  durable goods  fell by the most in three
years in March, according to data published today by the U.S.
Commerce Department in  Washington .  Chilean industrial holding company  Sigdo Koppers SA (SK)  sold
$93 million of inflation-linked bonds due in 21 years at a yield
of 3.98 percent, according to data from the Santiago stock
exchange.  Celulosa Arauco & Constitucion SA, Chile’s biggest forestry
company, plans to sell as much as $232 million of inflation-
linked bonds, according to a prospectus published on the website
of the country’s securities regulator. Arauco is a unit of
Empresas Copec SA.  Empresas CMPC  The second-largest forestry company, Empresas CMPC SA last
week sold $500 million of inflation-linked bonds. Wood pulp was
Chile’s third-biggest export after gold and copper last year,
according to central bank data.  Chilean exporters selling inflation bonds domestically and
swapping the liabilities into dollars may affect the inflation-
linked swap market, according to economists at Banco de Credito
e Inversiones in Santiago. The gap between five-year inflation-
linked swaps and five-year inflation-linked  government bonds 
could widen by 20 basis points, they wrote. That spread was at
30 basis points as of 2:00 p.m. today.  The five-year inflation-linked swap rate rose two basis
points to 2.17 percent today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  