-- China-Bashing Is Popular but Could Do More Harm Than Good
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-04-25T21:58:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/china-bashing-is-popular-but-could-do-more-harm-than-good.html
President  Barack Obama  and the
presumptive Republican nominee,  Mitt Romney , both act as if
lecturing China about its undervalued currency is a good way to
show they care about U.S. jobs.  We hope Treasury Secretary  Tim Geithner  and Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  will be able to set such rhetoric aside
next week when they head to Beijing for a fourth round of talks
on strategic and economic cooperation.  Make no mistake: China’s exchange-rate policy represents a
threat to the world’s financial and economic stability. By
keeping its currency cheap to support  export-driven  growth,
China is doing more than just putting the squeeze on other
countries’ manufacturers. With dollars  piling up  from its  trade
surplus , China is flooding the rest of the world with easy
money. That encourages more borrowing and spending, contributing
to debt crises like the one from which the global economy is
still struggling to recover.  Pushing China to revalue its currency, though, is no way to
fix the problem. Economic reality is applying ample pressure
without any help from the U.S. China’s share of world exports is
reaching the point where further expansion will be unprofitable.
The country’s overheated export machine is driving up  prices  and
 wages  inside China. This real appreciation has the same effect
as nudging up the exchange value of the yuan: Chinese goods
become more expensive, and hence less competitive, abroad.  Slowly Rising Yuan  China has also been letting the nominal  exchange rate 
slowly rise. As of Wednesday, a yuan bought 15.9 cents, up from
14.6 cents two years ago and 12.1 cents in 2005.  What, then, might U.S. politicians achieve by taking a
tough stand on the currency? For one, such pressure could
actually prevent Chinese officials from pursuing exchange-rate
liberalization, for fear of looking as if they’re capitulating
to foreign interests. Worse, if the U.S. -- as Romney has
advocated -- follows through on threats to declare China a
currency manipulator and imposes sanctions, it could trigger a
trade war that would incur heavy losses for both sides.  Even if China moved further on the yuan, it’s not clear the
outcome would be beneficial.  China  faces the daunting task of
shifting its economy to consumer-led growth, a move that will
require it to end various subsidies supporting export
industries. If it gets the timing and mix of currency, trade and
financial liberalization wrong, that could derail an economy
that has been a major driver of global growth. Such reforms
could also lead to social upheaval if major job losses result.  More important, success in reducing China’s trade surplus
wouldn’t necessarily help the U.S. In 2011, China’s current-
account  surplus , a broad measure of trade and financial flows,
shrank by nearly 50 percent as a share of gross domestic product
-- a trend economists attribute to rising commodity prices,
slowing global growth and a previous increase in the exchange
rate of the yuan. During the same period, the U.S. current-
account  deficit  hardly budged.  Given the uncertain benefits and abundant risks, the U.S.
would be better off doing nothing than adding its voice to that
of the growing ranks of China-bashers. If it wants to address
the root causes of global trade and finance imbalances, the U.S.
could focus on limiting the government’s appetite for borrowing
to cover its budget deficits, or on reforming a tax system that
encourages consumers and companies to take on debt.  Low Rates  On the Chinese side, officials are aware there’s much to do
beyond nudging up the exchange rate. China’s consumers, for
example, would have more spending money if they didn’t have to
keep their savings in banks that pay penuriously low  interest
rates . China also would free its consumers to save less and
spend more if it created retirement and health-care safety nets.  True, such reforms are more difficult to pursue and sell to
constituents than a public fight with a foreign power that is
seen as stealing U.S. jobs (the populist American perspective)
or looking to contain its ambitions (the nationalist Chinese
view). But they would make a more desirable and lasting
difference.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  saving social security ;
 Noah Feldman  on  Arizona immigration arguments ;  Caroline Baum  on
the  fiscal future ;  Ezra Klein  on  money and politics ;  Susan
Crawford  on  cyber protection ; Steven Neil Kaplan on  inequality
and unemployment ; Jared Diamond on the roots of  Japan’s economic
malaise .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 