-- China Repo Rate Jumps Most in Two Weeks as Deposit Growth Slows
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-04-25T08:52:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/china-s-repo-jumps-most-in-two-weeks-as-deposit-growth-slowing.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
rose the most in more than two weeks on speculation deposit
growth at banks is slowing, causing cash shortages.  Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Ltd., China
Construction Bank Corp., Bank of China Ltd. and Agricultural
Bank of China Ltd. lost more than 1 trillion yuan ($159 billion)
in combined deposits in the first two weeks of April, the 21st
Century Business Herald reported last week, citing an
unidentified person. Lending was mostly unchanged, the report
said.  The  seven-day repurchase rate  climbed 19 basis points, the
most since April 6, to 3.93 percent in  Shanghai , according to a
weighted average compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center. It has risen 48 basis points this month after declining
215 basis points in the first three months of the year.  “The seven-day repo is very much dependent on banks’
liquidity, which in turn is driven by deposits,” said Wee-Khoon Chong, a Hong Kong-based strategist at  Societe Generale . The
rise in the repo rate since last month is “a reflection of
slowing deposit growth,” he said.  China’s economic prospects are still “grim,” the Ministry
of Industry and  Information Technology  said in Beijing today.
Gross domestic product rose 8.1 percent in the three months
through March from a year earlier, the least since 2009.  Bond Auction  The People’s Bank of China didn’t gauge demand for bill
sales, suggesting it won’t sell debt maturing in less than a
year tomorrow, according to a trader at a primary dealer
required to bid at the auctions. The central bank asked banks to
submit orders for 91-day  repurchase agreements , the trader said.  The Ministry of Finance sold at least 30 billion yuan of
three-year bonds at an average yield of 2.91 percent today,
according to a trader at a  finance company  that participates in
government debt auctions. That compared with the 2.90 percent
median estimate of seven fixed-income analysts and traders in a
Bloomberg News survey.  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost needed to receive
the seven-day repurchase rate, increased one basis point to 3.24
percent in Shanghai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield on 3.51 percent government bonds due February
2022 was little changed at 3.536 percent, according to the
National Interbank Funding Center.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  