-- China Auto Scraps IPO After Struggling to Lure Investors
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   F o x   H u
-- 2012-04-25T09:45:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/china-auto-postpones-ipo-after-struggling-to-attract-investors.html
China Auto Rental Holdings Inc. (CARH) 
postponed what would have been the second U.S. initial public
offering by a Chinese company this year after struggling to
attract investors.  The IPO was delayed because of “the current capital market
conditions” according to an e-mailed statement from Christensen
Investor Relations Inc.,  China  Auto’s public relations firm.
China Auto had considered reducing the offering price after only
about half the order book for the IPO was covered by early this
week, according to people with knowledge of the matter.  China Auto, which calls itself the country’s biggest car-
rental provider, pulled the offering as U.S. investors’ appetite
for mainland Chinese companies evaporated since 2010 amid
accounting scandals and share declines. Guangzhou, China-based
online retailer  Vipshop Holdings Ltd. (VIPS)  slashed its IPO by 39
percent last month and slid by as much as a third once it
started trading.  “People are concerned about corporate governance issues
and bad press surrounding Chinese companies,” said Nicholas
Yeo, head of China and Hong Kong equities at Aberdeen Asset
Management, which oversees $295 billion globally. “China is
still compelling in the long term, but how to get access to its
growth is challenging.”  China Auto was seeking to raise as much as $137.5 million
by offering 11 million American depositary receipts for $10.50
to $12.50 each, according to regulatory filings.  Valuation Premium  The midpoint of the offering range would have valued China
Auto at $847 million, or about 7 times last year’s sales. Lentuo
International Inc., the Chinese car retailer that completed a
U.S. IPO in December 2010, trades at 0.6 times revenue after
losing half its value since the sale, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  China Auto, whose customers include General Motors Co. and
China Telecom Corp., initially filed for a $300 million IPO on
Jan. 18. The company was founded in 2007 and has reported  net
losses  every year since at least 2009, its filings show.  The loss widened to 151 million yuan ($24 million) last
year as revenue jumped fivefold to $123 million, filings show.
While mainland China’s securities regulator requires three
continuous years of profitability for new listings on its main
board, the U.S. has no such rule.  China Auto planned to use proceeds from the offering for
fleet expansion and other working capital needs. Founder and
Chief Executive Officer Charles Zhengyao Lu was set to own 25
percent after the IPO, and Legend Holdings Ltd., parent of
Lenovo Group Ltd., would retain 55 percent, filings show.  Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of America
Corp. were managing the deal.  Dating Website  The number of new listings by mainland China-based
companies on the New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq Stock Market
peaked in 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The 13 Chinese companies that debuted in the U.S. last year
include traditional medicine maker  Tibet Pharmaceuticals Inc. (TBET) ,
which has  declined  77 percent, and dating website Jiayuan.com
International Ltd., which has slid by more than half.  Vipshop, which fell 33 percent in its first five days of
trading, has  recovered  to close yesterday at $6.02, down from
its $6.50 offer price. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Deutsche
Bank AG were lead managers on the IPO.  Chinese companies attempting IPOs in foreign markets are
encountering heightened scrutiny from investors after others
that had gone public through reverse mergers were later revealed
to be misreporting financial information.  One such company, Sino-Forest Corp., lost C$3.3 billion
($3.3 billion) of its market value after Carson Block, founder
of research firm Muddy Waters LLC, accused the company of
overstating its timber holdings last June. In a reverse merger,
a closely held firm buys a publicly traded shell company and
retains its listing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Fox Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  