-- China’s Stocks Gain on Wen’s Economy Pledge, U.S. Data
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-25T07:45:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/china-s-stocks-swing-between-gains-losses-on-earnings-economy.html
China’s stocks  rose for the third
time in four days after Premier  Wen Jiabao  pledged to maintain
steady economic growth and U.S. housing data bolstered the
outlook for exports to the world’s biggest economy.  China Vanke Co. (000002)  and Poly Real Estate Co. led gains for real
estate companies after the China Securities Journal reported
investment funds bought more shares of developers in the first
quarter. Jiangxi Copper Co., the biggest producer of the metal,
gained 1.8 percent on speculation an improving global economy
will spur demand. Xinjiang Goldwind Science & Technology Co.,
the second-biggest maker of  wind turbines , advanced 2.4 percent
after profit beat the company’s projection.  “The government has the tools to stem a decline in
economic growth and they will act when the situation worsens,”
said  Li Jun , a strategist at Central China Securities Co. in
Shanghai. “Earnings are still a major concern and will limit a
rebound. Trading will be range-bound for the time being.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 18 points, or 0.8
percent, to 2,406.81 at the close. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  added 0.8
percent to 2,625.99. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the
measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies,
retreated 0.4 percent in New York yesterday.  Thirty-day  volatility  in the Shanghai Composite was at 18.7
today, near the lowest in a week. About 13.4 billion shares
changed hands in the  Shanghai Stock Exchange  yesterday, or 51
percent higher than the daily average this year.  Maintain Growth  The Shanghai index has climbed 9.4 percent this year amid
speculation the government will take measures to boost the
economy. Stocks in the Shanghai gauge are valued at 10.2 times
estimated earnings, compared with a record low of 8.9 times on
Jan. 6, according to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg.  Premier Wen said the country will maintain steady growth
even amid signs the world’s second-largest economy is slowing.
The government in March lowered its annual economic growth
target to 7.5 percent from an 8 percent goal in place since
2005.  “ China  has confidence that it will sustain steady and
robust economic growth,” Wen said yesterday at a press
conference in Stockholm with Swedish Prime Minister  Fredrik
Reinfeldt , according to an English translation of his remarks.
“China will remain committed to reform and opening up.”  The growth rate of industrial production will be slightly
higher in the second quarter than in the previous three months,
 Zhu Hongren , a spokesman for the Ministry of Industry and
 Information Technology , said at a briefing in Beijing today.
Industrial output rose 11.6 percent in the first quarter.  Mutual Fund Holdings  Jiangxi Copper rose 1.8 percent to 25.59 yuan. Tongling
Nonferrous Metals Group Co. jumped 3 percent to 20.95 yuan.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  rose 0.2 percent today amid
better-than-estimated earnings at companies from AT&T Inc. to 3M
Co. and as data indicated the U.S. housing market is
stabilizing. The U.S. is China’s second-largest export market,
making up about 17 percent of the nation’s overseas shipments,
according to Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co.  Chinese mutual funds increased their average stock holdings
by 0.52 percentage point to 78.8 percent in the first quarter
from the end of 2011, the China Securities Journal reported
today, citing TX Investment Consulting Co.  Mutual funds bought more shares of real estate developers,
banks and insurers in the first quarter, while selling shares of
information technology companies and drugmakers, according to
the report.  A gauge of  developers  in the  Shanghai  Composite jumped 3.4
percent, the most among the five industry groups. Vanke, the
biggest developer, climbed 2.9 percent to 8.88 yuan. Poly Real
Estate advanced 2.5 percent to 12.31 yuan.  Xinjiang Goldwind climbed 2.4 percent to 7.66 yuan. First-
quarter profit fell 97 percent from a year earlier, the company
said in a statement yesterday. That compared with an April 13
projection that profit may have been wiped out.  Earnings Outlook  Eight hundred and thirty-two companies in the Shanghai
Composite have released annual earnings. They posted profit
growth of 14 percent on average, trailing analyst estimates by
2.2 percent, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. That
compared with an increase of 38 percent in the previous year.  Chinese  Internet stocks  slumped in the U.S. on speculation
declining profit for Facebook Inc. and Apple Inc.’s drop to a
six-week low signal that the information technology sector is
faltering.  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , the nation’s biggest online search
engine, slid to the lowest since March 7 after forecasting
second-quarter sales growth below analysts’ estimates.  The  IShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S. rose for the fifth time in six
days, climbing 0.5 percent to $37.19 yesterday.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  