-- China Helps First-Home Buyers as Market Cools: Mortgages
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-26T06:37:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/china-helps-first-home-buyers-as-market-cools-mortgages.html
Kevin Xi had no trouble getting a
mortgage to buy a 1.53 million yuan ($242,563) one-bedroom
apartment in Beijing last month, even as  China ’s government
tries to cool the housing market. He even got a 10 percent
reduction on interest.  “I didn’t expect to get such a good rate,” said Xi, 27,
an employee of a property company whose 960,000 yuan mortgage
loan with Bank of China Ltd. was approved within five working
days. “I thought only employees from government agencies or
state-owned companies qualified.”  The government is pushing in two directions as it seeks to
slow price growth while avoiding a collapse. It’s lowering
borrowing costs for first-time homebuyers to encourage purchases
while Premier Wen Jiabao keeps curbs in place to stem the
speculators who have helped drive home prices up by as much as
140 percent since 1998. China’s 18 percent first-quarter drop in
 home sales  contributed to the slowest economic growth in almost
three years.  “Property is an important sector for  China’s economy ,”
said Jack Gong, a Hong Kong-based property analyst at Jefferies
Group Inc. “The central government will not forcefully crack
down on the market even if it is not supporting it. Fine-tuning
the mortgage policies shows the government’s clear intention to
uphold economic growth.”  The benchmark rate for mortgages in China is the five-year
lending rate set by the People’s  Bank of China , currently 7.05
percent. Bank of China, China Construction Bank Corp. and
Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. offer as much as a 10 percent
discount to borrowers the banks deem as safest in Beijing, while
smaller lenders such as China Merchants Bank Co. and Bank of
Beijing Co. are charging the benchmark rate, according to Bacic
& 5i5j Group, Beijing’s second-biggest real-estate agency.  Government Easing  Lenders in Beijing started offering mortgages to first-home
buyers at or below the central bank’s benchmark rate in February,
compared with rates 5 percent to 10 percent higher in the second
half of last year, said Wu Hao, a manager at the loan brokerage
of  Bacic & 5i5j . Home buyers in Beijing and  Shanghai  could get
as much as a 15 percent discount, according to the realtor.  The lower  mortgage rates  for those buying their first
properties are an indication that the government may gradually
ease its more stringent home-purchase restrictions in the second
quarter, according to CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets, a unit of
Credit Agricole SA.  ‘Gradual Easing’  “It is clear that the government has eased its controls
over bank lending to first-time homebuyers,” said Andy Rothman,
CLSA’s China macro strategist in an interview in Shanghai.
“These are the first hints of what will be gradual easing of
central government enforcement of the house purchase
restrictions.”  Home sales in 33 out of 40 cities jumped in March from the
previous month, according to SouFun Holdings Ltd., the country’s
biggest real-estate website.  Xi is ready to move into his new one-bedroom 58 square-
meter (624 square-foot) home, which he said had basic décor and
he didn’t plan to renovate. The five-year-old apartment is
located outside Beijing’s Fourth Ring Road, one of the capital’s
six highway loops.  Property Curbs  China’s campaign to put the brakes on a surge in property
prices began two years ago and measures in place include higher
mortgage and down-payment requirements, and home-purchase
restrictions for about 40 cities.  Home prices   grew  6 percent in
2010 after surging 25 percent the previous year when the
government started imposing the curbs. Last year, the statistics
bureau changed the way it calculates home prices, abandoning a
nationwide index.  Home buyers in China are required to put down 30 percent of
the property’s price to purchase their first home and 50 percent
for a second property. Down payments were raised to 40 percent
and 60 percent for first and second homes, respectively, in
China’s eastern province of Zhejiang last year as part of the
government’s efforts to keep housing affordable.  Authorities have refrained from cutting interest rates amid
inflation concerns. The central bank  increased  interest rates
three times last year.  Large Down Payments  About 50 percent to 70 percent of home buyers in China’s
major or first-tier cities of Shanghai, Beijing and Guangzhou
take out mortgages to buy homes, borrowing on average 50 percent,
according to  Centaline Property Agency Ltd. , China’s biggest
real-estate brokerage. The loans, whose rates move with the
benchmark rate, usually have maturities from five to 30 years,
depending on borrowers’ ability to repay.  Buyers in smaller cities, the so-called second- and third-
tier cities such as Wenzhou in Zhejiang province, tend to pay
cash. That compares with  Australia , where more than 35 percent
of new  homeowners  in the quarter ended Dec. 31 borrowed at least
80 percent of their property’s value, according to central bank
figures.  “The smaller the cities the buyers are in, the more
willing they are to pay cash,” said Liu Yuan, a Shanghai-based
Centaline researcher. “Interest rates are not really affecting
home purchase decisions. Chinese buyers care more about current
discounts rather than the lower costs for borrowing money.”  Unsold new homes in 10 cities, including Beijing and
Shanghai, tracked by Bacic & 5i5j jumped 46 percent from a year
earlier to 594,500 units as of March 31, indicating rising risks
and a higher probability that local governments may “fine-
tune” policies to reduce inventories, the agency said in an
April 13 report.  Sales Rebound  The central bank said last month it will ensure that “loan
demand from first-home families” is met. Housing Minister  Jiang Weixin  said in December that China would prioritize loans for
first-home buyers and support reasonable property purchase
demand. The government has lowered the amount of cash that banks
must set aside as reserves twice since November to boost
liquidity and spur loan growth.  Home sales in March reached 373.3 billion yuan, surpassing
the first two months of the year combined, according to the
government data on April 13.  March home sales at  China Vanke Co. (000002) , the biggest developer
by market value listed on Chinese exchanges, jumped 23.5 percent
from last year to 11.5 billion yuan, while  Poly Real Estate
Group Co. (600048)  said they rose 47 percent. Mortgage lending discounts
boosted demand from first-home buyers, said Tan Huajie, Vanke’s
board secretary in an e-mailed statement on April 5.  Currently about 80 percent to 90 percent of purchasers in
the market are first-time buyers, according to Century 21 China
Real Estate, the country’s second-biggest brokerage.  Fine Balance  Outstanding  mortgage loans  rose 15.5 percent to 7.1
trillion yuan last year, slower than the 29.5 percent expansion
in 2010, as banks suspended lending for third homes and
tightened criteria on second homes, according to a central bank
report released Feb. 15.  China Construction Bank, the world’s second-biggest lender
by market value, was one of the first Chinese lenders last year
to increase the  interest rate  for first homes to 10 percent more
than the benchmark rate. Now it is offering mortgage rates
“appropriately” lower than the benchmark for first-home buyers
to reduce their borrowing costs, the lender’s Vice President
Zhao Huan said at a briefing in Beijing March 26.  The government should gradually loosen or even support
demand from end users, such as first-time homebuyers, to offset
the sharp decline in investment demand, according to Citigroup
Inc. China’s  economy  grew a less-than-forecast 8.1 percent in
the first three months from a year earlier, the slowest pace in
11 quarters, according to government data on April 13.  “The central government is searching a balanced point
between tightening and loosening the policies,” wrote
Citigroup’s Hong Kong-based analysts led by Oscar Choi in a
report on March 29.  Price Cuts  The central city of Wuhan allowed some first-time home
buyers to pay as little as 20 percent down payment with loans
from the public housing fund, the official Xinhua News Agency
reported on April 24, citing the local authorities. Interest
rates on loans from the housing fund usually are lower than the
lending rate. Residents usually pay a portion of their income
each month into the fund to be eligible for such loans, while
their employers also contribute.  The biggest mortgage discounts Chinese banks offered were
as much as 30 percent below the benchmark rate in 2008, when the
country’s home sales slumped 17 percent, retreating for the
first time since the 1998 privatization of the housing market.  It was unlikely banks would offer those kind of discounts
this year because they would hurt their profitability, according
to UBS AG.  The impact on home sales of lower mortgage rates for first-
home buyers is limited, because buyers would rather wait for
more price cuts with the government’s determination to bring
home prices down, Chen Li, head of China equity strategy at UBS,
said in an interview in Shanghai. Home prices fell for the
seventh month in March from February, according to SouFun.  ‘Resolute’ on Restrictions  China’s Premier  Wen Jiabao  has said the government will
“resolutely” maintain its curbs on the  property market , and
the country’s home prices were far from a reasonable level.  “Direct price cuts would be more effective than mortgage
rate discounts,” Chen said. “ Hadn’t Wen made such remarks,
the easing of mortgage lending rates would have given a bigger
boost to the market.”  As for Xi, he says he is just happy to have gained entry
into Beijing’s property market, where prices have surged 30
percent from the beginning of 2009 to the end of 2010, even
though his commute to work will increase to about one hour by
public transport from a 15-minute walk from the apartment he
rents now.  “I just like finally having my own place, even though that
means I’ll spend more time on the road,” said Xi. “I think
home prices in Beijing will still rise, and since I’m qualified
to buy here, why not just go ahead.”  --Bonnie Cao, Zhang Dingmin. Editors: Andreea Papuc, Rob Urban  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  