-- Chrysler to Let Ally Auto-Financing Pact Expire
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-04-26T04:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/chrysler-to-let-ally-auto-financing-pact-expire.html
Chrysler Group LLC, the automaker
controlled by  Fiat SpA (F) , will let its operating agreement with
 Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)  expire in April 2013 as the company
negotiates with other banks for vehicle financing.  Chrysler notified Detroit-based Ally yesterday that it
won’t renew the agreement, according to regulatory filings from
both companies. The pact required  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based
Chrysler to allow Ally to finance a minimum percentage of
vehicles sold with subvented loans, which are made to consumers
at below-market rates. Automakers pay lenders to make up the
difference.  Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  said Feb. 28 that
Chrysler is negotiating with several banks about the third-
largest U.S. automaker’s financing needs. Chrysler generates
more than $25 billion in auto loans annually, people familiar
with the matter said in February.  Ally’s agreement with Chrysler extends through April 2013
and has automatic one-year renewals, according to its annual
report filed Feb. 28. Chrysler needed to notify Ally of
nonrenewal before the end of this month, the filings show.  Subvented loans with Chrysler accounted for about 5 percent
of Ally’s total U.S. consumer originations in the first quarter,
according to Ally’s filing yesterday. The agreement does not
cover other business Ally does with Chrysler dealers, such as
wholesale financing, so-called standard rate financing for
consumers and leasing, according to the filing.  ‘Constructive Discussions’  “Chrysler and Ally continue to have constructive
discussions about the future relationship,” the Ally filing
said. “Ally expects to continue to play a significant role with
Chrysler dealers in the future as the dealer is Ally’s direct
customer for the majority of business that is conducted.”  Ally Chief Executive Officer Michael Carpenter is trying to
repay U.S. bailouts exceeding $17 billion that left the Treasury
Department with a  74 percent stake . Carpenter has backtracked on
a prediction in August 2010 that Ally could stage an initial
public offering valuing it at as much as $30 billion, saying
Feb. 2 that a sale won’t happen until the company resolves
issues tied to faulty loans at its home-mortgage business
Residential Capital LLC.  ResCap didn’t make a scheduled interest payment on about
$473 million of debt on April 17, Ally said in an April 17
regulatory filing. Ally said ResCap had 30 days after the missed
payment of about $20 million before a default occurs, and people
familiar with the matter have said the company is considering
bankruptcy for the unit.  Banks Negotiating  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , Santander Holdings USA Inc., General
Electric Capital Corp., U.S. Bancorp and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
are among banks that have negotiated with Chrysler about its
auto-financing needs, three people familiar with the talks said
in February.  Chrysler has told banks they can submit two bids: one to
form a joint venture that covers “captive” finance business
such as dealer financing, and the second for Chrysler-branded
auto loans, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the talks were private. Turin, Italy-based Fiat has a
financing joint venture with  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  in  Europe .  Ally originated 2.3 million auto loans and leases worldwide
last year totaling about $53.3 billion, according to its annual
report. The lender provided financing for 29 percent of
Chrysler’s North American retail sales and 65 percent of its
dealer inventory in  North America .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  