-- Coal No Longer King as Southern Speeds Switch to Gas-Fired Power
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2012-04-25T21:13:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/coal-no-longer-king-as-southern-speeds-switch-to-gas-fired-power.html
Southern Co. (NSC) , one of the largest
U.S. consumers of coal, expects to generate 57 percent of its
power from natural gas by 2020 if low prices and new
environmental rules remain in effect.  Southern, based in Atlanta, Georgia, burned more gas than
coal during the first quarter as collapsing prices made gas the
cheapest  fossil fuel  in the utility’s four-state region of the
southeastern U.S., Thomas Fanning, Southern’s chairman and CEO,
said during an interview today.  “We think with this change in energy production, we will
be the third-largest gas consumer in our industry,” Fanning
said.  The rapid switch away from coal by Southern and other large
U.S. power companies is expected to dent gas inventories that
ballooned as production expanded and a warm winter tempered
demand. Gas futures in New York rose for the third time in four
days after  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said prices may rebound to
$4 per million British thermal units “relatively quickly.”  Natural gas for May delivery increased 9.3 cents to $2.068
per million British thermal units at the close on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  Southern, whose energy output matches that of the country
of  Australia , has halved its coal use to about 35 percent of
energy sales since 2007, Fanning said. The company’s gas-fired
generation rose threefold to 47 percent.  Fanning and his team accelerated the transition to gas last
year as prices began to tumble and the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency announced stricter curbs on common coal-fired
plant pollutants.  Southern is monitoring stockpiles and renegotiating mine
and rail contracts as its coal burn drops to 45 million tons
this year from 56 million tons in 2011, Fanning said during a
quarterly conference call.  Southern fell 0.9 percent to $45.48 at the close in  New
York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  