-- Coke’s Stock Split Recalls Buffett’s Pickpocket Warning
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2012-04-25T20:45:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/coke-s-stock-split-recalls-buffett-s-warning-against-pickpockets.html
Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  Chairman  Muhtar Kent ,
who pushed for the beverage maker’s 11th stock split with an
appeal for greater market liquidity, may be philosophically at
odds with his biggest investor, Warren Buffett.  Buffett, who controls a  Coca-Cola stake  of almost $15
billion, has resisted splitting Class A shares of his  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , which closed yesterday at $119,700. Splits, he
said in a 1984 letter, may encourage short-term investment
strategies that enrich brokers at the expense of the business.  “I don’t know what he would say about this one,” said
 Howard Buffett , the investor’s son and a director at Atlanta-
based Coca-Cola. Howard Buffett, who spoke today on the
sidelines of the soft-drink maker’s annual meeting, said he
voted for the 2-for-1 split and had not discussed the
transaction with his father. “Every situation is different.”  The transaction will halve the price of Coca-Cola, which
ended yesterday at $74.12, making it more affordable for retail
investors, said  Jack Russo , an analyst at Edward Jones & Co. It
“reflects our desire to share value with an ever-growing number
of people and organizations around the world,” Kent, also the
chief executive officer, said today in a statement.  “It’s somewhat ironic that a stock that’s been part of the
Buffett  portfolio  all these years is playing that stock-
splitting game,” said  David Rolfe , chief investment officer of
Berkshire shareholder Wedgewood Partners Inc. “Be careful what
you wish for. Is it more and better shareholders that are going
to have a long term view? I doubt it.”  Coca-Cola rose 1.1 percent to $74.93 at 4 p.m. in New York.
Berkshire, where Buffett is chairman and CEO, accumulated its
stake in the world’s largest soft-drink maker from 1988 to 1994
at a cost of about $1.3 billion.  ‘Pickpocket of Enterprise’  Coca-Cola split its stock in 2-for-1 transactions three
times while Buffett, a Coca-Cola director from 1989 to 2006, was
on the board. Howard Buffett, also a director at Berkshire,
joined the Coca-Cola board in 2010.  “One of the ironies of the stock market is the emphasis on
activity,”  Warren Buffett  said in the 1984  letter . “But
investors should understand that what is good for the croupier
is not good for the customer. A hyperactive stock market is the
pickpocket of enterprise.”  Shareholders at today’s annual meeting stood and applauded
when Kent told them of the newly proposed split. Warren Buffett
didn’t mention the action in a video he taped to open the
meeting.  ‘Never Sold a Share’  “I’ve had a relationship with Coke for over 70 years,”
Buffett, who drinks Cherry Coke, said in the video. “Today we
own 200 million shares. We’ve never sold a share of Coca-Cola.”  Kent Landers , a spokesman for Coca-Cola, declined to
comment about the statements in Buffett’s letter. Warren Buffett
didn’t return a message seeking comment.  Buffett, who holds more than $40 billion in Berkshire
stock, has said gains represent a barrier to entry for short-
term investors and encourage shareholders to think like owners.
Berkshire shares cost a minimum of $33,200 each 16 years ago.
The cost of entry fell as Buffett added a second class of stock
and, two years ago, split the B shares to facilitate the $26.5
billion cash-and-stock takeover of railroad Burlington Northern
 Santa Fe .  ‘One Opinion’  Berkshire Class B shares rose 15 cents to $79.94. Buffett
split the B shares 50 for 1 in 2010, and said it enabled
Burlington Northern investors to convert more of their holdings
into Berkshire shares, reducing cash proceeds and tax costs.
Howard Buffett said his father has “one opinion about how
Berkshire should handle a stock split and another about how Coke
would handle it.” The stock split requires shareholder
approval.  Coca-Cola’s quarterly dividend has advanced more than 10-
fold since Berkshire began buying shares, and Buffett said in
2011 that he expected the payouts to double in the next 10
years. Berkshire’s share of the quarterly payout rose to $102
million this year.  “Time is the friend of the wonderful business,” Buffett
said of Coca-Cola in his  letter  to shareholders last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Orland at   korland@bloomberg.net . 