-- Colombia Proves Latin America’s Best Equities Since 2002
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-04-25T20:41:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/colombia-proves-latin-america-s-best-equities-since-2002.html
Colombia (IGBC) , Latin America’s murder
capital when Pablo Escobar ran the Medellin drug cartel in the
1980s, produced the region’s best risk-adjusted stock returns
over the past decade as improved security bolstered economic
growth and foreign investment.  The BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING shows the IGBC index
returned 70 percent in the past 10 years after adjusting for
volatility, the most among six major benchmark indexes in the
region. Colombia, the top performer also over five years and
three years, had a volatility-adjusted return of almost six
times that of the  Bovespa gauge  in Brazil in the past decade.  Colombia, which won an investment-grade credit rating last
year for the first time since 1999, outperformed as military
victories spearheaded by former President  Alvaro Uribe  turned
the tide in a 50-year war with Marxist rebels. Improved public
safety lured a record $13.2 billion last year from investors
including billionaires  Carlos Slim  and  Eike Batista  with
companies such as Tabasco Oil Co. and MPX Energia SA. The
growing economy swelled the middle class, which will bolster
 consumer spending  and fuel further stock gains, said Frederick Searby, the chief regional strategist at Deutsche Bank AG.  “Colombia has had such a phenomenal peace dividend after
going through a wrenching decades-long guerrilla war,” Searby
said by phone from  New York . “It’s got a sustainable growth
story, with a very high investment rate. From a macroeconomic
perspective, Colombia is one of the most attractive markets.”  Volatility Outlook  Colombia’s total return of 1,606 percent was second only to
the 1,719 percent from Peru’s Lima General Index. It moved to
the top spot because it had the third-lowest volatility.
Volatility in  Brazil ’s Bovespa was 34 percent above that for the
Colombian gauge over the past 10 years.  Volatility will probably stay low because local pension
funds, which generally buy stocks and hold securities, account
for 10 percent of trading in the market, said  Ed Kuczma , who
helps manage $34 billion in assets at Van Eck Associates in New
York. Foreign investors accounted for 35 percent of trading last
year in the Bovespa, compared with 7.5 percent in Colombia.  “Pension funds continuously invest in the equity of their
own country,” Kuczma said. “When you get a big or even a
regular size sell-off, they are very quick to put a floor into
the market.”  The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing total return by  volatility , or the degree
of daily price variation, giving a measure of income per unit of
risk. A higher volatility means the price of an asset can swing
dramatically in a short period of time, increasing the potential
for unexpected losses.  Changed Perception  “The perception of Colombia is very different than what it
was a decade ago,” said Jose Fernando Restrepo, the head
analyst at Interbolsa SA, Colombia’s biggest brokerage. “The
country is in an upward growth trend” and attracting new
companies and investors into the stock market, he said.  President  Juan Manuel Santos , who took office in August
2010 after serving as defense minister from 2006 to 2009, and
Uribe, the president from 2002 to 2010, have drawn investment by
curtailing homicides and weakening rebel groups.  The government’s stepped-up attacks on the Revolutionary
Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, after almost five decades of
battles helped cut the group’s membership to about 8,000 from a
peak of 17,000 in 2002, according to Defense Ministry data. The
annual number of murders dropped by almost half from 2002 to
2011 as kidnappings declined 89 percent.  Economic Growth  The government forecasts  foreign direct investment  may rise
to $16 billion this year, more than five times the levels of a
decade ago. The economy’s 5.9 percent growth last year was the
fastest since gross domestic product jumped 6.9 percent in 2007,
the most in 30 years. The central bank forecasts South America’s
fourth-biggest economy may grow as much as 6 percent in 2012.  While  Venezuela ’s return adjusted for volatility exceeded
Colombia’s in the past decade, trading was limited. About 142
million bolivars ($33 million) in stocks changed hands last year
 in Venezuela , according to data from the Caracas stock exchange,
compared with average daily volumes of $92 million in Colombia
and $3.9 billion in Brazil.  “Until not too long ago Colombia was considered somewhat
of a failed state,” Santos, sitting between U.S. President
 Barack Obama  and Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff , told
hundreds of business leaders gathered April 14 for a summit in
the resort city of Cartagena. “Things have changed.”  Medellin Murders  Medellin was for many years the murder capital of  Latin
America , registering 6,349 homicides in 1991, when the war
between cartels for control of the drug trade was at its height.
Escobar was killed 18 years ago by a special  task force  Colombia
created to track him down. Homicides in Medellin fell to 1,649
in 2011, according to government data.  Drug violence also led to the assassination of presidential
candidates such as Luis Carlos Galan, who led polls in 1989 when
he was shot dead near Bogota.  The limited number of investment options in Colombia have
driven valuations to relatively high levels, limiting the
potential for future gains in the short term, said Francisco Alzuru, who helps manage about $200 million in emerging-market
assets at Hansberger Global Investors in Fort Lauderdale,
 Florida . Stocks in Colombia’s IGBC trade at 14 times trailing
12-month earnings, compared with a ratio of 12.7 for Brazil’s
Bovespa.  “It creates pressures that might not exist in other
countries,” Alzuru said. “The stocks don’t offer as much value
as others in the region.”  ‘Wanting to Stay’  Since 2008, the government has played on the word “risk”
to invite travelers to its cities, jungles and beaches. An
international advertising campaign uses the slogan: “Colombia:
 the only risk is wanting to stay .”  Colombia last year garnered an investment-grade  credit
rating  from  Standard & Poor’s , Moody’s Investors Service and
Fitch Ratings, 11 years after it was cut to junk when violence
and a banking crisis helped trigger six straight quarters of
contraction beginning in 1998. The extra yield investors demand
to own Colombian government dollar debt instead of U.S.
Treasuries is 149 basis points, or 1.49 percentage point,
according to data from JPMorgan Chase & Co. That compares to 184
basis points in Brazil, 187 for  Mexico  and 968 for  Argentina .  Attacks on pipelines, roadways and bridges fell to 196 in
2011 from more than 900 in 2002, according to government
figures. Improved security helped draw investment from Slim’s
Grupo Carso SAB, which bought a stake last year in Geoprocesados
SA’s Tabasco Oil. Batista is investing in coal through MPX
Energia.  Oil Output  The country seeks to boost crude output to 1.5 million
barrels a day by 2020. Production increased 7.2 percent in March
from a year earlier to 951,000 barrels a day.  Celsia SA, a holding company that is now focused on energy
projects, handed investors a risk-adjusted return of 148 percent
in the past decade, the most among members of the IGBC. Mineros
SA, Colombia’s largest gold producer, posted a risk-adjusted
return of 116 percent as prices for the metal soared.  Bancolombia SA (BCOLO)  and Banco de Bogota SA, the country’s
biggest and second-biggest banks, Grupo de Inversiones
Suramericana SA, Latin America’s largest private pension-fund
manager, and Grupo Nutresa SA, Colombia’s biggest food producer,
were also among the 10 top performers in the index as the
growing economy buoyed consumer spending and credit demand.  Consumer Spending  Investors are focused on companies in growing economies
such as Colombia’s, where consumer spending is picking up,
according to Deutsche Bank’s Searby.  Retail sales  jumped 23
percent in April 2011, the most since January 2000 when
Bloomberg records begin, and have risen every month since
October 2009.  “People are playing the consumer story on this idea that
commodity prices stay high and you get this multiplier effect of
GDP growth,” Searby said. As more Colombians enter the middle
class, they’re “going from consuming almost none of these
products, whether its financial services or retail, to consuming
quite a bit,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Jenkins in New York at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  