-- Consumer Stocks Climb as Wen Bolsters Outlook: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-04-25T20:41:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/consumer-stocks-climb-as-wen-bolsters-outlook-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities in the U.S. rose
for the first time in four days, led by consumer stocks, on
prospects the world’s second-largest economy will maintain
growth as domestic demand climbs.  Air carriers  China Eastern Airlines Corp. (CEA)  and  China
Southern Airlines Co. (ZNH)  rallied in New York, while online travel
agency  Elong Inc. (LONG)  rose the most in three weeks. The  Bloomberg
China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese shares in the
U.S. added 1.1 percent to 101.74 in New York. Macau casino
operator  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL)  traded at a  premium  over
its Hong Kong stock for the first time in four days.  The world’s biggest exporter will sustain “steady and
robust” economic growth, Premier  Wen Jiabao  told reporters in
Stockholm on April 24, more than a month after releasing the
lowest annual target for expansion since 2004. While demand
outside of China is waning, growth in the domestic market will
bolster  industrial output  in this quarter, after the pace picked
up in the first three months of 2012 from the least in two
years,  Zhu Hongren , spokesman for the Ministry of Industry and
Information Technology, said yesterday in Beijing.  “A lot of consumer stocks are on a rebound as there’s been
a lot of data recently supporting the views of the soft landing
crowd,” Erik Lam, director of Asian equity sales at Auerbach
Grayson & Co. in New York, said by a phone yesterday. “Growth
is already coming from domestic demand, and as a result, stocks
viewed as benefiting from increased consumption, Internet,
airlines, casino, are getting a boost.”  China ETF Rises  The  IShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., climbed 0.9 percent to $37.53
in its second day of gains. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
jumped 1.4 percent to 1,390.69 yesterday, after  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  said
quarterly earnings almost doubled and Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said he remains prepared to do more to stimulate
growth if needed.  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG) , the nation’s biggest
Internet bookseller, surged 9.7 percent to $8.23 in New York
yesterday, extending its advance this year to 87 percent.  American depositary receipts of Shanghai-based  China
Eastern , the nation’s second-largest carrier by passenger
numbers, rose 3.5 percent to $15.96 in New York, the highest
close since April 9.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  reiterated its buy rating on China
Eastern on April 23, saying it expects the airline to make a
“small profit” in the first quarter. China Eastern is due to
report results for the period tomorrow.  Guangzhou-based China Southern, Asia’s biggest air carrier
by passenger numbers, advanced 2.4 percent to $21.25 in New
York, the biggest one-day rally in two weeks. The company’s ADRs
traded 0.6 percent  above  its Hong Kong stock, which climbed 1.9
percent to HK$3.28 yesterday, the equivalent of 43 U.S. cents.
The premium in the ADRs, each representing 50 Hong Kong shares,
was the highest since April 12.  Acquity IPO  Acquity Group Ltd. (AQ) , a Hong Kong-based digital marketing
firm, will push ahead with its U.S. initial public offering,
even as the second Chinese company to try and sell shares in  New
York  this year postponed its IPO.  Acquity plans to raise as much as $55.6 million today,
selling American depositary receipts in the company in a price
range of $8 to $10 apiece, according to an April 23 filing.
Beijing-based China Auto Rental Holdings Inc. delayed its IPO on
April 24 because of “the current capital market conditions”
according to an e-mailed statement from the car rental company’s
public relations firm.  “We are still on schedule,” Audrey Ling, Acquity’s
investor relations manager, said by phone yesterday in New York,
after China Auto’s announcement. The IPO will be priced today
and the shares will start trading on the New York Stock Exchange
tomorrow, she said.  Low Valuations  Chinese companies listed in the U.S. on the Bloomberg gauge
 are trading  at 18.9 times analysts earnings estimates, near the
lowest valuation in nine months. The  Bloomberg Russia-US Equity
Index (RUS14BN)  of the most-traded Russian companies in the U.S. has a
price to earnings ratio of 6.5 times estimates, near the lowest
in 12 weeks.  “China is a really cheap market in search of a catalyst,
which is going to be improvement in non-inflationary growth, but
it will come slowly,” Nicholas Smithie, a New York-based
emerging market strategist at UBS AG, said in a phone interview.
“For the moment, investors want exposure to Chinese consumer
stocks because that’s an area of growth, and also a sector that
is very scarcely represented in the indices.”  Beijing-based Elong, whose biggest shareholder is U.S.
online travel agency  Expedia Inc. (EXPE) , increased 1.4 percent to
$14.37, the biggest one-day jump since April 5.  Melco Crown -- which operates casinos in Macau, the only
place in China where they are legal -- climbed 4.6 percent to
$15.78 in New York, trading 2.1 percent above its Hong Kong
stock, the widest premium in four days.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  advanced 0.8 percent to
2,406.81 yesterday, while the  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI) 
of Chinese companies traded in Hong Kong was little changed at
10,812.79.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  