-- Container Lines Seen Ending Losses After Rates Jump 36%
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2012-04-25T16:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/container-lines-seen-ending-losses-after-rates-jump-36-.html
Container lines may have learnt
their lesson after losing at least $6 billion last year in price
wars.  Average rates from China have jumped 36 percent this year,
the fastest increase since the China Containerized Freight Index
was established in 1998, according to HSBC Holdings Plc, as
lines focus on earnings rather than market share. That change
has caused companies including  Maersk Line , CMA CGM SA and
Mediterranean Shipping Co., the world’s three biggest, to slow
ships and pool vessels with rivals to pare overcapacity.  “We have to stop trying to outgrow each other,” Soeren Skou, chief executive officer of Maersk Line, said in  Singapore 
last month. “Our focus for this year and in the coming years
will be on restoring profitability.” The A.P. Moeller-Maersk
A/S unit, which has forecast a second straight  annual loss ,
plans to cut Asia-Europe capacity 9 percent this year.  The new-found cooperation and capacity restraint means
average global container rates will rise 9.8 percent this year
after dropping 16 percent in 2011, according to Nomura Holdings
Inc. It may also let lines sustain peak-season surcharges after
2011’s levies failed to stick amid competition for market share.  “Shipping lines have been victorious in raising rates this
year because they have exercised discipline,” said Jee Heon Seok, an analyst at NH Investment & Securities Co. in  Seoul .
“They’re reaping the benefits of working together and that
could mean annual profits.”  Peak-Season Surcharges  Carriers are yet to say how high the surcharges will be in
the peak season, which roughly runs from July until October.
Demand in the period is driven by retailers stocking up for the
back-to-school and holidays shopping seasons.  There is “strong” consensus among lines about the need to
levy surcharges on the trans-Pacific routes this year, according
to Kim Young Min, chief executive officer at Hanjin Shipping Co.,
 South Korea ’s biggest cargo-box carrier. Lines have limited
antitrust immunity to discuss rates on the route through the
Transpacific Stabilization Agreement. There is no similar group
for Asia- Europe  rates.  Improving U.S. consumer spending and job prospects may also
bolster demand and shipping fees. Container traffic at major
retail ports will probably jump 3.6 percent in June from a year
earlier, followed by a 1.9 percent gain in July and a 7.4
percent increase in August, according to the  National Retail
Federation , a Washington-based trade group.  Profit Estimates  The rising outlook has prompted analysts to raise earnings
estimates for container-shipping lines even after  fuel prices 
averaged about 20 percent higher so far this year in Singapore
trading than a year earlier.  Five  analysts  have raised their 2012 profit forecast for
Copenhagen-based A.P. Moeller-Maersk this month, with none
cutting. The company, which also has energy and retail units, is
expected to make a net income of 21.1 billion kroner ($3.7
billion) this year, based on the average nine analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg in the 28 days through yesterday. That
compares with 15.2 billion kroner last year.  Six analysts have also raised their earnings forecasts for
 Neptune Orient Lines Ltd. (NOL) , parent of  Southeast Asia ’s biggest
container line, this month through yesterday, with no cuts.
 China  Shipping Container Lines Co. has had seven increases in
the past month. The company reported a first-quarter  loss  of
1.45 billion yuan ($230 million) late yesterday.  Even ahead of the peak season, lines have largely pushed
through three increases totaling $1,100 per 40-foot box for
Asia-U.S. shipments this year. The moves were coordinated by the
Transpacific Stabilization Agreement. That’s also helped spot
rates for Asia-U.S. west coast shipments to rise 43 percent to
$2,415 per 20-foot box, according to Shanghai Shipping Exchange.
Lines are now seeking increases of at least $500 as they
negotiate annual contracts generally starting around next month.  Asia-Europe Rates  On Asia-Europe routes, spot rates have more than doubled
this year to $1,708 per container last week, according to
Shanghai Shipping Exchange. A number of carriers have announced
plans for further increases of as much as $850 per box starting
May 1.  “Shipping lines will try to impose much higher rates
during the peak season,”  Nexen Tire Corp. (002350)  said in an e-mailed
response to query. “They’ve been raising rates because it’s a
matter of survival.”  The Korean tiremaker shipped about 1,400 containers a month
to the U.S. and about 800 to Europe last year. Volumes will
increase about 5 percent this year, it said.  Customers’ acceptance of the need for increases may falter
now that rates have returned to profitable levels, HSBC analysts
led by Mark Webb said in an April 20 note. Current Asia-Europe
rates are already “comfortably” above break-even levels, they
said.  Returning Ships  The higher rates are also tempting lines to return some
idled ships to service, which may limit the ability to push fees
higher, the analysts said. The capacity of ships out of service
dropped to 723,000 containers as of April 9 from a peak of
913,000 in mid-March, according to data from Paris-based
Alphaliner.  “Any sudden emergence of greed among carriers” is a risk,
 Johnson Leung , a Hong Kong-based Jefferies Group Inc. analyst,
said in an April 16 note. That could undermine the “dramatic
turnaround” seen this year because of capacity discipline, he
said.  New Vessels  Lines are also still adding new vessels. The capacity of
the global container-ship fleet will expand 7.4 percent this
year, little changed from last year’s 7.9 percent pace,
according to Nomura. New ships entering service this year will
be able to hold 1.27 million containers, it said. That will rise
to 1.51 million next year, helped by the launch of Maersk
vessels able to hold a record 18,000 cargo boxes.  “We have an excessive supply of  container ships ,” Yasumi Kudo, president of  Nippon Yusen K.K. (9101) ,  Japan ’s largest shipping
line by sales, said on April 18 in  Tokyo . “It’s going to take a
significant time for the shipping lines to close the supply-
demand gap.”  Still, in the short term, lines will resist the urge to
slash fees to win market share and fill expanding fleets, NH
Investment’s Jee said. Instead, they will focus on raising rates
and adding levies in order to return to profit, he said.  “Imposing peak-season surcharges appears to be the top
priority,” said Hanjin’s Kim. “Shipping lines need to
survive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  