-- Cop-Led ‘Death Race’ Renews Focus on N.J. Police Misdeeds
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-04-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/cop-led-death-race-renews-focus-on-n-j-police-misdeeds.html
The police-escorted “Death Race”
of exotic cars that sped to  Atlantic City  put the latest smudge
on a  New Jersey  agency marred by racial profiling, claims of
hazing and a high-speed wreck that left a governor near death.  Less than three years ago, the U.S. Justice Department
ended a decade of monitoring traffic stops made by state
troopers, prompted by complaints that some members of the 2,700-
strong force had targeted minorities. Colonel Rick Fuentes, head
of the New Jersey State Police, said then that his officers were
upholding “best practices of police professionalism.”  Fuentes suspended two troopers amid investigations of the
high-speed caravan along the Garden State Parkway March 30 and
transferred a barracks commander. Ultimately, Fuentes reports to
Attorney General Jeff Chiesa, an appointee of Governor  Chris Christie . The first-term Republican on April 23 said providing a
police escort to speeding Porsches, Ferraris and Lamborghinis
“was a dumb thing to do.”  “I hate for this to be a blemish on the rest of the
organization who do great things all year long,” Fuentes told
reporters yesterday at the Statehouse in Trenton. He said
troopers follow guidelines for “hundreds” of escorts each
year, sometimes assisting agencies such as the New York Police
Department and the U.S. Secret Service, which protects the
president. He called the March 30 incident an “aberration.”  Risky Business  Complaints about the caravan to the New Jersey Turnpike
Authority, which oversees the toll road, returned public focus
to the risks of high-speed travel conducted by troopers. The
incident, first reported by the Star-Ledger newspaper, prompted
state probes and the suspensions.  Two State Police cruisers, lights flashing, led the group
of  sports cars  south on the parkway at speeds estimated at 100
miles (160 kilometers) an hour. One motorist who complained,
Wayne Gantt of Little Egg Harbor, called it “Death Race 2012.”  The two suspended officers were taken off the job without
pay April 23. In a related move, the commander of the Totowa
barracks was transferred until any involvement on his part can
be determined, according to a statement from Chiesa’s office.  “The ‘Death Race 2012’ is yet another incident within a
troubled State Police culture that’s not surprising, considering
my fight to expose corruption,” Justin Hopson, 38, a former
trooper, said by telephone yesterday. He sued the agency in
December 2003, claiming he had been a victim of hazing.  Targeted for Hazing  Hopson, now a private detective in Mount Pleasant,  South
Carolina , claimed he had been targeted over a whistle-blower
case by a loosely knit and secretive group of white officers
called the “Lords of Discipline.” In a January 2005 report,
the attorney general’s office said it had punished seven
troopers for harassing colleagues, while finding no evidence
that the group named by Hopson existed.  In October 2007, the state settled the matter with a
$400,000 payment to Hopson, who left the agency.  Six months earlier, then-Governor  Jon Corzine , a Democrat,
received serious injuries in a high-speed wreck with a trooper
behind the wheel. The sport-utility vehicle carrying Corzine was
going 91 miles (145 kilometers) an hour when it ran off the
parkway. The driver, Trooper Robert Rasinski, was declared
“culpably inefficient” and sanctioned by Fuentes following an
investigation. Corzine credited Rasinski with saving his life.  Hiring Again  The State Police, set up in 1921, patrols New Jersey’s
highways, protects the governor and operates medical evacuation
flights. Christie has added $1 million to the agency’s budget,
giving it the first chance to hire since 2010. While local
public-safety departments cope with payroll cuts, plans call for
adding 225 troopers to the force this year.  Last year, the state chapter of the National Association
for the Advancement of Colored People, the oldest and largest
U.S. civil-rights organization, threatened to sue if the State
Police didn’t try to hire more minority candidates. This month,
the agency indicated it plans to recruit among minorities more
actively for the next class of trainees.  The monitoring that ended in 2009 stemmed from an incident
in April 1998, when two white troopers shot three unarmed men
during a traffic stop on the  New Jersey Turnpike . The incident
led to accusations that racial profiling was used to determine
which cars to stop. In 1999, the agency agreed to federal
oversight as it sought to eradicate the practice.  Troubling Development  The high-speed caravan sends a disturbing signal, according
to Reverend Reginald Jackson, executive director of the Black
Ministers Council of New Jersey.  “It sends a very troubling message and says if you are in
a particular group, or are special or have some level of
privilege, then the state police will actually help you violate
the law and give you an escort down one of the state’s major
highways,” Jackson said yesterday by telephone.  Assemblyman  Gordon Johnson , a Democrat from Teaneck who is
a former Bergen County undersheriff, said he was satisfied with
the response by Chiesa and Fuentes to “Death Race” complaints.  He also wondered why the incident had occurred.  “What’s in a person’s mind to say, ‘Gee, this will be a
good idea to have these guys fly down the turnpike, parkway and
Atlantic City Expressway at high speeds, and we’re going to
escort them and not get caught,’” he said by telephone.
“That’s incredible to me.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  