-- Credit Suisse Posts 96% Profit Drop on Debt Charge
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2012-04-25T07:54:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/credit-suisse-posts-first-loss-in-three-years-on-revamp.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the second-
largest Swiss bank, reported a 96 percent decline in first-
quarter profit after booking accounting charges related to its
own debt and costs for 2011 bonuses.  Net income fell to 44 million Swiss francs ($48 million)
from 1.14 billion francs in the year-earlier period, the Zurich-
based bank said in a statement today. Earnings beat the 297.9
million-franc average loss  estimate  of nine analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Brady Dougan  said the bank
benefitted from an “improved environment” in the quarter and
cut risk-weighted assets at the investment bank by more than
previously targeted. Credit Suisse decided to scale down its
investment bank last year as the European sovereign-debt crisis
and stricter  capital requirements  contributed to a 62 percent
drop in the group’s annual earnings.  “I’m relatively impressed with what they’ve achieved in
the first quarter,”  Dirk Becker , a Frankfurt-based analyst at
Kepler Capital Markets who rates the bank “reduce,” said in an
interview. Still, “the challenges are really huge for Credit
Suisse” going forward, in both  investment banking  and in wealth
management, he said.  Credit Suisse was little changed at 23.56 francs by 9:42
a.m. in Zurich trading. The stock has  gained  6.8 percent this
year, compared with a 2.1 percent increase in the 43-company
Bloomberg  Europe Banks and Financial Services Index  and a 1.6
percent advance in UBS AG, its larger Swiss competitor.  Fixed-Income Rebound  Pretax profit at the investment bank fell 33 percent to 993
million francs in the quarter, while earnings from private
banking dropped 27 percent to 625 million francs. The asset
management division had a 43 percent increase in pretax profit
to 250 million francs, driven by a 178 million-franc gain from
the sale of part of the bank’s stake in Aberdeen Asset
Management Plc.  The firm benefited less from the rebound in fixed-income
markets in the quarter than its U.S. competitors. Revenue from
fixed-income sales and trading fell 21 percent to 2 billion
francs from a year earlier, compared with the average 12 percent
increase excluding valuation adjustments reported by  Citigroup
Inc. (C) , JPMorgan Chase & Co,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Bank of
America Corp. and Morgan Stanley, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The bank’s deleveraging efforts contributed to the decline
in revenue, Dougan said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television today, adding that he’s “happy with the diversity”
of revenue.  Not as Favorable  The bank cut risk-weighted assets in the quarter by 45
billion francs to 294 billion francs on a Basel III basis,
exceeding the accelerated targets announced in February.  Equities sales and trading fell 12 percent to 1.4 billion
francs, compared with the average 9 percent decline reported by
the U.S. companies. Revenues from underwriting debt and equity
sales and advising clients on mergers and acquisitions fell 18
percent to 761 million francs, compared with the average 15
percent drop reported by U.S. competitors, Bloomberg data show.  Market conditions in April “haven’t been as favorable” as
in the first quarter, Dougan said in the interview. While the
bank has a “pretty constructive” view for the rest of the
year, it has to be prepared for renewed market volatility, he
said.  Credit Suisse booked a 1.55 billion-franc charge related to
an increase in the price of its own debt in the first quarter.
The accounting charge stems from a rule tied to the theoretical
cost of buying back the bank’s debt as market prices fluctuate.
The bank also had 534 million francs in costs related to bonds
linked to derivatives, which were awarded as part of 2011
bonuses to more than 5,500 bankers.  Job Cuts  The firm, which announced 3,500 job cuts last year, said
it’s on track to save about 2 billion francs in annual costs by
the end of 2013. Dougan said the bank doesn’t have plans for any
additional cost reductions. Credit Suisse intends to boost the
private bank’s pretax profit by 800 million francs by 2014 as
sluggish client activity squeezes margins.  Credit Suisse reported net new money of 5.8 billion francs
in  wealth management  in the quarter. That compared with 15.7
billion francs a year ago, after an outflow of 4.1 billion
francs from Clariden Leu clients as the company integrated the
private bank with the rest of its business.  The bank is a target of a criminal investigation by the
 U.S. Department of Justice  over former cross-border private-
banking services to American customers, the company said in
July. Eight bankers, including Credit Suisse’s former head of
North America offshore banking, were charged with conspiring to
help American clients evade taxes through secret bank accounts.
Credit Suisse continues to “work hard” to resolve the U.S.
probe, Dougan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  