-- Credit Suisse Chief Says April Market Conditions Less Favorable
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2012-04-25T12:06:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/credit-suisse-chief-says-april-market-conditions-less-favorable.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  Chief
Executive Officer Brady Dougan said market conditions worsened
in April from the first quarter, when its investment bank
returned to profit after a 2011 loss.  “So far in April market conditions haven’t been as
favorable as they were in the first quarter,” Dougan said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television in Zurich today. “We’re
pretty constructive about what we hope we’ll see for the rest of
the year. We certainly have to be prepared for volatility in the
markets.”  Dougan said the bank benefited from an “improved
environment” in the first quarter and cut risk-weighted assets
at the investment bank by more than previously targeted. Credit
Suisse decided to scale down its securities unit last year as
the European sovereign-debt crisis led to losses. The division
reported a pretax profit of 993 million francs ($1.09 billion)
for the quarter after a loss of 428 million francs in 2011.  “I’m relatively impressed with what they’ve achieved in
the first quarter,”  Dirk Becker , a Frankfurt-based analyst at
Kepler Capital Markets who rates the bank “reduce,” said in an
interview. Still, “the challenges are really huge for Credit
Suisse” going forward, in both  investment banking  and in wealth
management, he said.  First-quarter net income fell to 44 million francs from
1.14 billion francs in the year-earlier period after accounting
charges related to Credit Suisse’s own debt and costs for 2011
bonuses. Nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg on average
 estimated  a 297.9 million-franc loss for the quarter.  Fixed-Income Rebound  Credit Suisse fell 1.6 percent to 23.18 francs by 1:48 p.m.
in Zurich trading. The stock has  gained  5 percent this year,
compared with a 4.1 percent increase in the 43-company Bloomberg
 Europe Banks and Financial Services Index  and a 1.5 percent
advance in UBS AG, its larger Swiss competitor.  Pretax profit at the investment bank fell 33 percent in the
quarter from 1.48 billion francs a year earlier, while earnings
from private banking dropped 27 percent to 625 million francs.
The asset management division had a 43 percent increase in
profit to 250 million francs, driven by a 178 million-franc gain
from the sale of part of the bank’s stake in Aberdeen Asset
Management Plc.  The firm benefited less from the rebound in debt markets in
the quarter than U.S. competitors. Revenue from fixed-income
sales and trading fell 21 percent to 2 billion francs from a
year earlier, compared with the average 12 percent increase
excluding valuation adjustments reported by  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
JPMorgan Chase & Co.,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Bank of America
Corp. and Morgan Stanley, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Equities Trading  The bank’s deleveraging efforts contributed to the decline
in revenue, Dougan said in the interview, adding that he’s
“happy” with the diversity of revenue.  The bank cut risk-weighted assets in the quarter by 45
billion francs to 294 billion francs on a Basel III basis,
exceeding the accelerated targets announced in February.  Equities sales and trading fell 12 percent to 1.4 billion
francs, compared with the average 9 percent decline reported by
the U.S. companies. Revenues from underwriting debt and equity
sales and advising clients on mergers fell 18 percent to 761
million francs, compared with the average 15 percent drop
reported by U.S. competitors, the data show.  The bank restated some figures for the division after it
decided to record valuation adjustments on structured notes in
the corporate center instead of the investment bank.  Job Cuts  Credit Suisse booked a 1.55 billion-franc charge related to
an increase in the price of its own debt in the first quarter.
The accounting charge stems from a rule tied to the theoretical
cost of buying back the bank’s debt as market prices fluctuate.
The bank also had 534 million francs in costs related to bonds
linked to derivatives, which were awarded as part of 2011
bonuses to more than 5,500 bankers.  The firm, which announced 3,500 job cuts last year, said
it’s on track to save about 2 billion francs in annual costs by
the end of 2013. Dougan said the bank doesn’t have “any plans
for any other major reductions in headcount beyond that.”  Credit Suisse intends to boost the private bank’s pretax
profit by 800 million francs by 2014 as sluggish client activity
squeezes margins. The gross margin at the  wealth management 
business, which shows how much the bank earns on assets under
management, remained unchanged from the fourth quarter at 109
basis points - a level Dougan called a “cyclical low.” A basis
point is one hundredth of a percentage point.  Inflows Shrink  Credit Suisse reported net new money of 5.8 billion francs
in wealth management in the quarter. That compared with 15.7
billion francs a year ago, after an outflow of 4.1 billion
francs from Clariden Leu clients as the company integrated the
private bank with the rest of its business.  The bank is a target of a criminal probe by the  U.S.
Department of Justice  over former cross-border private-banking
services to American customers, the company said in July. Eight
bankers, including Credit Suisse’s former head of North America
offshore banking, were charged with conspiring to help American
clients evade taxes through secret bank accounts. Credit Suisse
continues to “work hard” to resolve the U.S. probe, Dougan
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  