-- Critz Wins Pennsylvania House Democratic Primary Over Altmire
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-04-25T04:01:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/critz-defeats-altmire-in-house-democratic-primary-in-pa-1-.html
U.S. Representative Mark Critz
survived a primary challenge by fellow Democratic incumbent
Jason Altmire in a redrawn  Pennsylvania  congressional district.  Critz led Altmire 52 percent to 48 percent with 99 percent
of precincts reporting, according to the  Associated Press .  The two Democrats were forced into running against each
other in yesterday’s primary because the state’s Republican-led
legislature packed them into the same House district after
Pennsylvania lost one of its 19 seats following the 2010 Census.  The race was the third of 11 match-ups between incumbents
of the same party as a result of redistricting. Redrawn
congressional districts in Ohio and  Iowa  will spur general
election contests between incumbents of different parties.  First elected in 2006, Altmire, 44, hasn’t been a reliable
vote for House Democratic leaders. A member of the self-
described fiscally conservative Democratic Blue Dog Coalition,
Altmire voted against the health-care overhaul, the centerpiece
of President Barack Obama’s legislative agenda.  A former health-care executive, Altmire said he opposed the
overhaul -- which became law in 2010 -- because it wouldn’t
improve care or reduce spiraling medical and hospital costs.  Critz, 50, was elected during a special 2010 election
following the death of Representative John Murtha, for whom he
had worked as a congressional aide.  Labor Endorsements  Critz won endorsements by organized labor, while Altmire
seemingly benefited from redistricting with a majority of the
voters in the new district already his constituents.  Critz’s campaign paid for ads to run 1,800 times on  network
television  through April 23 at an estimated cost of $742,440,
compared with 1,221 ads for Altmire at a cost of $605,870,
according to New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG, which tracks
advertising.  In another Pennsylvania contest, U.S. Representative Tim Holden, a 10-term Democrat, lost a primary challenge to lawyer
Matthew Cartwright. Holden’s district was changed by the
Pennsylvania legislature to include the Democratic-dominated
Scranton and Wilkes-Barre region.  With 99 percent of precincts reporting, Cartwright led
Holden 57 percent to 43 percent. Holden, a member of the Blue
Dog Coalition, had won his previous races in a Republican-
leaning district.  ‘Too Beholden’  The non-partisan Campaign for Primary Accountability ran
ads in the district attacking Holden, 55, as “too beholden” to
 Wall Street  interests and called Cartwright as a “true-blue
Democrat” who “will stand up for the middle class and stand up
to big banks and Wall Street.” The  League of Conservation
Voters  ran ads critical of Holden’s environmental record.  Center Forward, a group with ties to the Blue Dog
Coalition, aired ads critical of Cartwright. Holden aired ads
1,234 times at a cost of $408,300, compared with Cartwright’s
848 ads at a cost of $329,890, CMAG data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  