-- Czech Policy Maker Says Euro Area Crisis Still Risk to Growth
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-04-25T10:50:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/czech-policy-maker-says-euro-area-crisis-still-risk-to-growth.html
The euro area’s debt crisis is
still a risk for Czech economic growth as renewed turbulence may
hurt demand for the country’s exports from its main market,
policy maker Kamil Janacek said.  The Czech central bank board member commented on euro-area
risks, the banking industry and outlook for Czech interest rates
in an interview in  Prague  yesterday.  On euro area developments:  “Even with the difficult situation in the euro zone as a
whole, the latest data show that the effective euro zone is
developing somewhat more favorably than the entire bloc.  ‘‘There is still some nervousness related to developments
in  Spain  and its debate on the size of the reduction of the
public-finance deficit this year.  ‘‘Overly tight fiscal policies and overdone austerity
programs may have a negative impact on economic growth, and can
lead a number of countries into excessive recessions.  ‘‘Fiscal consolidation is necessary for sustainable
economic growth, but spreading these programs over time may be
more suitable than trying to fix the problems with shocks.
Pressuring some countries to harshly reduce the deficit may be
counterproductive.  On economic growth:  ‘‘We cannot rule out more turbulence related mainly to
developments in the southern wing of the  euro zone . This
represents an indirect risk for the Czech economy, as the
turbulence may negatively affect economic growth in the euro
zone and thus lower demand for Czech exports.  ‘‘Forecasts show that if there is small Czech economic
growth of 0.2 to 0.5 percent this year, it would be solely
driven by exports.  ‘‘We can’t expect domestic demand, households, government
and investments, to contribute to gross domestic product growth
this year.  ‘‘In uncertain times, households tend to save more, or at
least they don’t reduce the rate of savings in any sizable way.
Government steps to increase indirect taxes, and a plan to
increase some direct taxes as well, are limiting dispensable
income.  ‘‘This may cause household consumption to decline, or, at
best, stagnate, which could be probably a too-optimistic
assumption.  ‘‘Investment activities will likely resume only at export-
oriented companies that have booked solid orders for their
production. So we can’t expect a significant contribution to
growth either.’’  On the banking industry:  ‘‘The positive news is that the Czech banking sector is
robust and there is no spillover of problems from abroad.  ‘‘We are rigorously monitoring the situation in the banks,
which have an obligation to report exposure to their parent
groups on a weekly basis. This exposure has held well below the
regulatory limits.  ‘‘Should this measure deteriorate, we will act immediately,
and we have the tools to prevent it from happening.’’  On inflation expectations:  ‘‘The big question now is how much will a higher headline
inflation rate, above 3 percent, influence wage negotiations for
2013. Whether this may boost inflation expectations and whether
it may spark demand-driven inflationary pressures.  ‘‘Nominal wage growth of 4 or 5 percent and more, across
all sectors of the economy, could be risky in the current
situation of anemic economic growth. It would mean a relatively
rapid increase in unit-labor costs, which could negatively
affect competitiveness and create demand-driven pressures.  ‘‘There is a prevailing agreement within the bank board
that the domestic demand is not a pro-inflationary risk at the
moment, but the question is how long will this last and how
quickly it can change.  ‘‘We could experience, for the first time since the
introduction of inflation targeting, a situation when the value-
added tax rates rise in two years in a row. This would be a new
situation for developments with inflation expectations, and a
new challenge for  monetary policy .  ‘‘Our analyzes show that inflation expectations, short-term
and long-term, are well-anchored at present. Provided that the
VAT rates rise again at the beginning of 2013, the question is
whether this time it doesn’t push these inflation expectations
up.  ‘‘Monetary policy doesn’t react to spikes in the headline
inflation rate caused by increases in indirect taxes, but we
still have to take this into serious consideration because it
affects inflation expectations.  ‘‘I’m not sharing the view of most Czech analysts that we
will hold rates unchanged until the first half of 2013.’’  ‘‘I’m not saying we will change rates for sure, but what is
clear is that the discussion about trends in inflation
expectations will be more dominant in the second half of this
year, and mainly in the fourth quarter. And, as a result, there
will be a discussion whether the time has come to react by
increasing  interest rates .’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  