-- Czech Policy Maker Sees Debate on Rate Increase After June
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-04-25T14:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/czech-rate-increase-should-be-discussed-after-june-janacek-says.html
The Czech central bank should
consider increasing  interest rates  for the first time in four
years after June as price growth exceeding its target may boost
inflation expectations and wage demands, a policy maker said.  The Prague-based Ceska Narodni Banka has left the  two-week
repurchase rate  at a record-low 0.75 percent, a quarter point
below the  European Central Bank ’s main benchmark, since a cut in
May 2010. While the central bank doesn’t react to price spikes
fueled by government measures, it should stop them from boosting
inflation expectations, board member Kamil Janacek said in an
interview yesterday.  Borrowing costs have been steady as the economy slid into
recession in the second half of 2011 and an increase in the
value-added tax at the start of this year drove  inflation  to the
fastest pace in more than three years. One of seven rate-
setters,  Eva Zamrazilova , voted for a quarter-point increase at
the last meeting on March 29.  “I’m not saying we will change rates for sure, but it’s
clear that the discussion about trends in inflation expectations
will be more dominant in the second half of this year, mainly in
the fourth quarter,” Janacek said, declining to say how he will
vote at the next meeting on May 3. “And, as a result, there
will be a discussion on whether the time has come to react by
increasing interest rates.”  Forward-rate agreements fixing the three-month  interbank
rate  in nine months rose to 1.23 percent today from 1.03 percent
on Feb. 2, when the central bank’s forecast signaled interest
rates may decline later this year. The three-month interbank
offered rate, or Pribor, was 1.25 percent. The koruna extended
its gains after Janacek’s comments, trading up 0.7 percent
against the euro at 24.743 as of 3:55 p.m. in Prague.  Growth Prospects  Policy makers across  Europe  are weighing economic-growth
prospects against inflationary pressures amid the continent’s
sovereign-debt crisis. Hungary kept its two-week deposit rate at
7 percent for a fourth month yesterday.  Romania ’s central bank
has cut the benchmark interest rate four times since November to
5.25 while  Poland  left its main rate at 4.5 percent for a 10th
month on April 4.  The economy, which exports about 80 percent of its output,
 contracted  in the third and fourth quarters of 2011 as
government spending cuts outweighed demand abroad for Czech-made
vehicles, car parts and electronics goods. The  inflation  rate
rose to 3.8 percent in March, exceeding the central bank’s 2
percent target for a sixth month.  Inflation Forecast  The bank forecasts the inflation rate above 3 percent this
year, before falling to 1.5 percent in the first quarter of
2013. Inflation relevant for monetary policy, defined as price
growth adjusted for the primary impact of changes in indirect
taxes, was 2.7 percent in March, the central bank said. It sees
monetary-policy inflation moving “near” the 2 percent
inflation target by the third quarter of 2013.  “There is a prevailing agreement within the bank board
that the domestic demand is not a pro-inflationary risk at the
moment, but the question is how long will this last and how
quickly it can change,” he said. “Provided that the VAT rates
rise again at the beginning of 2013, the question is whether
this time it doesn’t push these inflation expectations up.”  The bank’s inflation forecasts may change with the
government of Premier Petr Necas planning to push through
another increase in the value-added  tax rate  as of 2013 as part
of measures to cut the public-finance  deficit  below the European
Union’s limit of 3 percent of GDP.  ‘Well Anchored’  While outlook for future price growth is “well-anchored”
now, a second VAT increase in as many years would be a “new
situation for developments with inflation expectations, and a
new challenge for monetary policy,” said Janacek.  Gross domestic product shrank 0.1 percent in the last
quarter of 2011, the same as in the previous three months,
according to statistics office data. The country ships about 70
percent of its exports to the euro area’s 17 members, with
 Germany  taking the largest share, and exports will probably stay
the sole contributor to GDP growth this year, Janacek said.  “We can’t expect domestic demand, households, government
and investments, to contribute to gross domestic product growth
this year,” he said. Households tend to increase savings in
“uncertain times,” while the government is cutting spending
and companies that don’t have enough export orders are cautious
to invest, Janacek said.  Wage negotiations for next year will be an indication of
whether the current higher price growth is spilling into
inflation expectations in the economy, Janacek said. Skoda Auto
AS, the unit of  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and the largest Czech
manufacturing company, agreed to raise salaries by 5 percent for
the year ending March 2013.  “Nominal wage growth of 4 or 5 percent and more, across
all sectors of the economy, could be risky in the current
situation of anemic economic growth,” Janacek said. “It would
mean a relatively rapid increase in unit labor costs, which
could negatively affect competitiveness and create demand-driven
pressures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  