-- TD Says Lawyer Falsely Told Judge Document Didn’t Exist
-- B y   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-04-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/td-bank-says-its-lawyer-wrongly-claimed-document-didn-t-exist.html
A  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  lawyer
falsely told a judge that a document didn’t exist when investors
suing over convicted conman Scott Rothstein’s Ponzi scheme
requested it, the bank’s attorneys said in a filing.  The bank this week produced the document, an internal bank
record called a “Standard Investigative Protocol,” and told a
judge that its attorney had previously given false information
when she said it didn’t exist.  TD Bank also replaced the  law firm , Greenberg Traurig LLP,
which represented it during a January trial in which the bank
was sued by investors who claimed it should have detected  money
laundering  in accounts Rothstein held there. Jurors in Miami
awarded the investors $67 million.  McGuireWoods LLP will now represent TD Bank in the lawsuit
and in a related one, Rebecca Acevedo, a bank spokeswoman, said
in a statement.  “TD and  Greenberg Traurig  decided it was in the best
interest of all concerned that McGuireWoods represents TD,”
Acevedo said.  During the January trial, one of the bank’s attorneys with
Greenberg Traurig told U.S. District Judge Marcia G. Cooke that
the bank didn’t have a “Standard Investigative Protocol,”
according to a transcript of proceedings on Jan. 13. A TD Bank
senior vice president also said in an affidavit that the
document didn’t exist.  ‘Professional Manner’  “We cannot comment directly about facts regarding our
representation of a client, particularly a matter currently
before the court,” Jill Perry, a spokeswoman for Greenberg
Traurig, said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “We are
working to address this situation in a professional manner.”  David Mandel, attorney for the investors, declined to
comment.  Separately, the investors, known collectively as the
Coquina group, asked the judge last week to sanction the bank
because a different document produced by the bank was altered
before it was given to Coquina’s attorneys.  Cooke has scheduled a hearing for Greenberg Traurig to
address the issue of the altered document and to show why its
attorneys shouldn’t held in contempt for their statements about
the protocol.  50-Year Sentence  Rothstein, co-founder of the now-defunct Fort Lauderdale-
based firm Rothstein, Rosenfeldt & Adler, is serving a 50-year
sentence for conspiracy to commit fraud. Investigators say his
$1.2 billion  Ponzi scheme  is the largest in  Florida  history.
Rothstein sold investors stakes in sexual- and employment-
discrimination cases that turned out to be non-existent.  After briefly fleeing the country when the scheme collapsed
in October 2009, Rothstein has been cooperating with
investigators. Eight associates have been accused of helping him
defraud investors.  The case is Coquina Investments v. Rothstein, 10-cv-60786,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida (Miami).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  