-- Darvish Outduels Kuroda as Rangers Defeat Yankees to Tie Series
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-04-25T04:22:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/darvish-outduels-kuroda-as-rangers-defeat-yankees-to-tie-series.html
Yu Darvish came within two outs of
his first complete game in  Major League Baseball  as he guided
the  Texas  Rangers to a 2-0 win against the  New York Yankees .  Darvish improved to 3-0 as he struck out 10 batters and
allowed seven hits in 8 1/3 innings in front of a sellout crowd
last night at Rangers Ballpark in Arlington, Texas. Yankees
starter  Hiroki Kuroda  (1-3) took the loss, giving up two runs on
five hits in 6 2/3 innings.  Darvish outdueled Kuroda in the seventh major league game
between starting pitchers born in Japan. The Rangers improved to
14-4, the best record in the American League. The Yankees are
10-7.  “He has a lot of talent, and when you have a guy like that
on the mound you just gotta find a way to score runs,” Texas
shortstop  Elvis Andrus  said in a televised interview. “He kept
us in the game.”  The Yankees beat Texas 7-4 in the opener of the three-game
series, which is scheduled to conclude tonight.  Darvish, who threw 119 pitches, in January signed a six-
year contract with the Rangers that MLB.com said is worth about
$60 million. The deal came after the Rangers paid a record $51.7
million to his Japanese team, the Hokkaido Nippon Ham Fighters,
for the right to negotiate with the 25-year-old Darvish, who
went 18-6 with a 1.44 ERA in 28 games in Japan last season.  Kuroda, a 37-year-old right-hander who never pitched in a
game opposite Darvish in  Japan , signed a one-year, $10 million
contract with the Yankees in January after spending four seasons
with the Los Angeles Dodgers.  Lead-Off Homer  Ian Kinsler hit Kuroda’s third pitch 429 feet to center
field for his fifth home run of the season. It was the 21st time
Kinsler has led off a game with a home run, extending his
franchise record.  Darvish found himself in a jam in the third when he failed
to field a bunt by Derek Jeter after giving up a single to Eric Chavez and walking Russell Martin. Darvish then struck out
Curtis Granderson and the Rangers escaped on a double-play
groundout by  Alex Rodriguez .  In the bottom of the third, Andrus walked with two outs and
stole second before scoring on a Josh Hamilton single.  Manager Booed  Rangers manager  Ron Washington  was booed as he walked to
the mound in the ninth inning to relieve Darvish, who
surrendered a single to Nick Swisher with his final pitch. The
game ended with a double-play grounder by Raul Ibanez on the
next pitch to give Joe Nathan his fifth save of the season.  The last major league matchup of Japanese starting pitchers
was on July 22, 2010, when Kuroda and the Dodgers beat Hisanori Takahashi and the New York Mets 2-0.  Daisuke Matsuzaka of the  Boston Red Sox  has been a part of
two major league games involving Japanese starting pitchers,
facing Kenshin Kawakami of the Atlanta Braves in 2009 and Tomo Ohka of the  Toronto Blue Jays  in 2007. Ohka also started against
Mac Suzuki of the Kansas City Royals in 2002.  In the first major league game featuring two Japanese
starting pitchers, Hideki Irabu of the Yankees faced Suzuki in
1999. Hideo Nomo of the  Detroit Tigers  went up against Suzuki
the following year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 