-- DBS Paying ‘Fair Value’ With $7.2 Billion Danamon Bid, CEO Says
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2012-04-25T07:37:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/dbs-paying-fair-value-with-7-2-billion-danamon-bid-ceo-says.html
DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS)  said its
it’s paying “fair value” for its $7.2 billion bid for PT  Bank
Danamon Indonesia (BDMN)  even as the biggest takeover by a Southeast
Asian lender dilutes earnings for the first two years.  The  Singapore  bank’s earnings per share will rebound from
the third year of the acquisition, Chief Executive Officer
 Piyush Gupta  said when questioned by shareholders on the merits
of the deal at a  shareholders’ meeting  in Singapore today.  DBS is paying more than the median book value for banking
deals over $1 billion as he seeks to diversify away from
Singapore to an economy that’s three times the size of its home
market. Indonesia’s gross domestic product expanded 6.46 percent
last year, the most since the before the Asian financial turmoil
that started in 1997.  “The price to book for Indonesia must reflect the
reality,” Gupta said. “It’s a high growth, high return market.
You have to pay the price that is relevant to that country to
access the opportunities in the country.”  The stock has fallen 3.6 percent this month, compared with
the 0.7 percent gain in the  Bloomberg Asia Pacific Banks Index (BPRBANK) ,
which tracks 56 lenders in the region including DBS. The lender
climbed 0.3 percent to S$13.67 as of 3:07 p.m. in Singapore.  DBS will buy 67 percent of Danamon for about $4.9 billion
in shares from Temasek Holdings Pte, Singapore’s state-owned
investment company that’s also its biggest stakeholder. It also
made a cash offer for the remaining stock at a 52 percent
premium from the previous closing price. Temasek will increase
its stake in DBS to 40.4 percent from 29.5 percent.  Shareholder Query  At least five shareholders at the meeting today raised
concerns their holdings will be diluted with the new shares for
Temasek. They asked Gupta and the board why they weren’t given
the option of a rights offer.  “It is true that you will earn less on an earnings per
share basis for the next one or two years,” Gupta said. “By
the third year, we are fairly confident that the incremental
profit we’ll make from this acquisition will actually increase
the earnings per share which the minority shareholders will
get.”  DBS expects to hold a meeting with investors in June for
the purchase of Temasek’s Danamon stake if it secures the
regulatory approvals. The remaining shares will be bought after
the purchase of Temasek’s holdings is completed.  Bank  Indonesia ’s Deputy Governor Halim Alamsyah on April 11
said the central bank will seek talks on reciprocity with
Singapore as a condition for approval of DBS’s offer and sent a
letter to the Monetary Authority of Singapore on the issue.  Acquiring the Jakarta-based bank will help DBS expand
through 3,000 Danamon branches.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  