-- Defense Panel Leader Aims to Boost Tanks, Missile Defense
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-04-25T23:15:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/defense-panel-leader-aims-to-boost-tanks-missile-defense.html
U.S. Representative Howard P. “Buck” McKeon, the chairman of the House Armed Services
Committee, said he will seek to boost funding for battle tanks,
Navy destroyers and missile defense in the Pentagon’s 2013
budget.  McKeon, a California Republican, said in a speech in
 Washington  today to the Hamilton Society that he also will work
to slow down a reduction in U.S. military forces and eliminate
fees proposed by the Obama administration for the military
health-care system.  McKeon outlined his priorities for the 2013 defense
authorization bill, which sets military policy and spending
targets for the fiscal year that starts Oct. 1. His speech
indicates that the Republican-led House Armed Services Committee
won’t hesitate to refashion the spending proposal that Defense
Secretary  Leon Panetta  has said should be passed as a package
without modifications that risk reversing the proposed savings.  “We were presented a budget from the Administration that
takes a knife to the  defense budget , while growing the size and
scope of the federal government,” McKeon said in the prepared
speech. “As defense continues to be crowded out of the picture,
we have to be extraordinarily careful in choosing where we
allocate the military’s funding.”  McKeon’s panel will be the first House committee to act on
the budget blueprint President  Barack Obama  and the Pentagon
proposed in February to cut $487 billion from previously planned
defense spending over 10 years.  Health Fees  As part of that blueprint, Obama is planning to reduce U.S.
military forces by about 120,000 by 2017. McKeon vowed to slow
down the reductions that he said would mean an increase to troop
deployments. McKeon also said he would eliminate the health-care
fees proposed by the Obama administration.  “Our forces on the front lines shouldn’t have to worry
about caring for their families’ health back home,” McKeon
said. “That’s our job, and it’s a responsibility I take
seriously.”  McKeon also said that he will seek to preserve production
lines for  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) ’s Abrams tank and  BAE Systems
Plc (BA/) ’s Bradley Fighting Vehicle to avoid a proposed temporary
shutdown.  McKeon’s panel will also try to scale back a Navy plan to
retire nine guided missile cruisers and authorize the purchase
of 10 additional destroyers, instead of nine.  The House Armed Services Committee’s seapower panel today
moved to restore funding for a second Virginia-class submarine
that the Navy struck from fiscal 2014 plans as part of Pentagon
budget-cutting. The panel recommended adding a down payment, or
“advance procurement,” in the fiscal 2013 budget, according to
documents released today.  Nuclear Sub  It also proposes giving the Navy authority to
“incrementally” fund the nuclear-powered submarine in fiscal
2014 and beyond. The Navy had planned to buy two Virginia-class
submarines a year, with the work split between  Huntington
Ingalls Industries Inc. (HII)  of  Newport News ,  Virginia , and General
Dynamics’s Groton, Connecticut-based Electric Boat unit.
Instead, the Pentagon now proposes buying one boat in fiscal
2014, while delaying another until fiscal 2018.  Israel ’s Iron Dome missile-defense system also stands to
gain as much as $680 million in U.S. aid under a proposal in the
armed services panel. A subcommittee is seeking the funding from
2012 to 2015 for the system built by Rafael Advanced Defense
Systems Ltd., according to documents released today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  