-- Dewey, Cozen, Mayer Brown, Fried Frank: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-04-25T10:45:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/dewey-cozen-o-connor-mayer-brown-fried-frank-business-of-law.html
Fred Gander, a Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP
partner who helped manage the firm, has left for  KPMG  LLP.  Gander, who was the chairman of Dewey’s European
supervisory committee, will head KPMG’s U.S. tax practice for
Europe and the Middle East, Robert Nihen, a KPMG spokesman,
confirmed. Gander was the managing partner of Dewey Ballantine
before its merger with LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & McRae in 2007.  Dewey & LeBoeuf has struggled since the beginning of the
year with partner departures that are reported to top 70,
according to the online publication legalweek.com. The firm said
last month it would set up a new chairman’s office with five
equal members from its most profitable groups.  Legalweek.com  reported  yesterday that a team of London
partners from Dewey are in talks with Akin Gump Strauss Hauer &
Feld LLP. Those considering a jump to Akin Gump include oil and
gas partners John LaMaster and Marc Hammerson, finance partner
Bruce Johnston and banking partner Amanda Jennings, the
publication said.  “Akin Gump regularly talks to potential lateral candidates
who may be a good fit with the firm,” Rick Burdick,
international managing partner, said in a statement. “However,
we are unable to provide any confirmation of hires until there
is an agreement between all parties. If the firm has an
announcement, it will be made through the usual channels.”  The Wall Street Journal also  reported  yesterday that Dewey
is continuing merger discussions with Greenberg Traurig LLP.
Dewey owes about $75 million to a syndicate of bank lenders and
has until the end of the month to extend its $100 million  credit
line , according to the newspaper.  Firm News  Cozen O’Connor Continues IP Expansion with Washington Hire  Cozen O’Connor  said Louis M. Heidelberger, formerly at
Connolly Bove Lodge & Hutz LLP, joined the firm’s intellectual
property group as a member in the  Washington  office.  Heidelberger follows a number of new lawyers brought into
Cozen O’Connor. On April 16, the firm announced that it had
hired nine IP attorneys from Duane Morris LLP, including seven
members, five in the Washington office. The following day, it
announced three Dewey LeBoeuf LLP energy lawyers, including one
partner, were joining the firm. In June, the firm added 19 New
York-based IP attorneys from Cohen Pontani Lieberman & Pavane
LLP, according to a statement.  “We are now one of the largest IP practices in the country
for generic pharmaceutical patent litigation,” Camille Miller,
who heads Cozen O’Connor’s intellectual property practice, said
in a statement.  The firm’s hiring spree stems from “the continued
implementation of our strategic plan to expand our depth and
national scope across our IP, energy, commercial litigation and
real estate practices,” Miller added in an e-mail.  Heidelberger has more than 35 years’ experience
representing clients in a variety of areas including
intellectual property counseling, due diligence, licensing,
transactions, litigation, opposition and cancellation
proceedings, reissue and reexaminations, and domain name and
anti-cybersquatting matters.  The IP group now has 45 attorneys practicing out of  New
York , Philadelphia, Washington,  Chicago  and Atlanta. Cozen
O’Connor has 575 attorneys in 21 offices in the U.S., Canada and
U.K.  Litigation  Google Was Never Told by Sun to License Java, Schmidt Says  Google Inc. (GOOG)  Chairman  Eric Schmidt  testified that his
company developed the Android operating system using the Java
programming language after partnership talks with Sun
Microsystems Inc. fell through and Sun made no demand for a
license to use Java.  Sun sought $30 million to $50 million and tight control
over Java’s use for Android, Schmidt told jurors yesterday in
federal court in  San Francisco  during  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ’s trial
against Google. When deal negotiations fell through in 2006,
Google built the Android software for mobile devices using
aspects of the Java platform without infringing on Sun’s
intellectual property, he said. Oracle now owns Java.  Schmidt said that based on his understanding of Sun’s
licensing requirements for Java, Google’s use of the programming
language’s tools in Android without a license was
“permissible” and “legally correct.” He said Jonathan Schwartz, who started as Sun’s chief executive officer in April
2006, never asked the search engine operator to take a license.  Oracle is seeking $1 billion in damages and a court order
blocking sales of Android, now running on more than 300 million
smartphones, unless  Mountain View , California-based Google pays
for a license.  “Schwartz didn’t express any concerns about the use of
Java?” Robert Van Nest, of Keker & Van Nest LLP, Google’s
lawyer, asked Schmidt yesterday. “Did he complain?”  “He did not,” said Schmidt, a former chief technical
officer at Sun who was the primary executive in charge of Java.  “Did he tell you that you needed a license to use Java’s
APIs,” or application programming interfaces? Van Nest asked.  “He did not,” Schmidt said.  Google plans to call Schwartz as a witness, according to a
court filing.  Oracle acquired Java as part of its 2010 takeover of Sun.
The Redwood City, California-based database maker alleges that
Google infringed copyrights on 37 APIs -- tools programmers use
to create applications using Java -- and infringed two Java
patents.  Schmidt said Java, a free programming language, is useless
without the APIs, which are used to tell computers how to print,
sort and perform other applications. Google implemented the Java
language and APIs, not Java source code, which would require a
license, he told the jury.  David Boies, of Boies Schiller & Flexner LLP, Oracle’s
attorney, showed Schmidt e-mails written by Google engineers
saying the company needed a Java license.  “Were you told in 2005 that the people responsible for
Android believed Google must take a license for Java?” Boies
asked.  “I don’t recall, but given the way the Sun licensing model
works this is actually not correct,” Schmidt said.  U.S. District Judge William Alsup, who is presiding over
the trial, said Schmidt’s answer wasn’t responsive to the
question and ordered jurors to disregard it.  The trial, expected to last eight weeks, is divided into
three phases. Oracle rested its case yesterday for the first
phase, which deals with copyright infringement. Google began its
defense of those claims yesterday, and the jury is expected to
deliberate on those claims as early as next week.  The next phases of the trial will address patent claims and
damage claims.  The case is Oracle America Inc. v. Google Inc., 10-03561,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of  California  (San
Francisco).  For more, click here.  Ex-Morgan Stanley Manager Appeals Insider Trading Conviction  Former  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Managing Director Du Jun yesterday
appealed a  Hong Kong   insider trading  conviction for which he was
sentenced to seven years in prison, saying prosecutors didn’t
prove he committed the crime.  “The prosecution failed to prove beyond a reasonable doubt
that the defendant knew it was relevant information,” said his
lawyer John Griffiths, referring to an e-mail Du received from
Morgan Stanley colleagues before buying shares of  Citic
Resources Holdings Ltd. (1205)   Du is serving the longest jail sentence doled out by the
court since the former British colony criminalized insider
trading in 2003. District Court Judge Andrew Chan in 2009 found
Du guilty of nine counts of the offense and one count of
advising his wife to trade Hong Kong-listed Citic Resources, a
Chinese oil and coal producer, in 2007.  The Beijing native, who was also fined HK$23.3 million ($3
million), bought shares of Citic Resources after learning of its
plan to purchase a Chinese oilfield while helping the company
sell bonds. He sold half of the shares in July 2007 for a profit
of about HK$33.4 million after the company announced the deal on
May 9, according to prosecutors.  Griffiths said on the first of four scheduled hearing days
in Hong Kong’s Court of Appeal that an acquisition in
Kazakhstan, also announced on May 9, and the resumption of
trading after a one-week suspension contributed to the surge in
Citic Resources shares. The lower court judge’s evaluation of
the relevance of the information Du had from the e-mail was
“fallacious,” Griffiths said.  During the appeal yesterday, Du sat silently in a navy
jacket and blue shirt, hunched at times over trial documents
provided to him in the prisoner’s dock.  The case is Hong Kong SAR v. Du Jun, CACC334/2009 in the
Hong Kong’s Court of Appeal.  For more, click here.  Moves  Mayer Brown Expands European Antitrust Practice  Mayer Brown LLP said yesterday that Robert Klotz joined the
firm as a partner in the antitrust and competition practice in
Brussels.  Klotz was previously at Hunton & Williams LLP. Before that,
he was an official of the European Commission’s Directorate
General for Competition.  “Robert’s DG Competition experience complements and
strengthens the Brussels office’s growing antitrust practice,”
Kiran Desai, partner in charge of Mayer Brown’s Brussels office,
said in a statement.  Mayer Brown has 20 offices worldwide in the Americas,  Asia 
and  Europe .  Fried Frank Expands Intellectual Property Platform  Corporate lawyer Daniel C. Glazer joined Fried, Frank,
Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP as a partner in the New York
office.  Glazer was previously a partner at Patterson Belknap Webb &
Tyler LLP, where he was one of the leaders of the intellectual
property transactions group.  Glazer, who will be in the corporate department, handles
IP/IT-related commercial agreements, such as licensing,
outsourcing, consulting, development, sponsorship, marketing and
distribution arrangements, as well as the IP/IT aspects of
mergers and acquisitions, joint ventures, securitizations and
other corporate transactions. His practice also includes
trademark and copyright counseling, enforcement and prosecution.  Fried, Frank has more than 500 lawyers at offices in New
York, Washington,  London , Paris,  Frankfurt , Hong Kong and
 Shanghai .  Energy Partner Joins Vinson & Elkins’ Tokyo Office  James Watson joined Vinson & Elkins LLP as a partner in the
global energy transactions/projects practice group in the firm’s
Tokyo office.  Previously joint head of energy and infrastructure at
Herbert Smith LLP’s Tokyo office, Watson has more than 20 years
of experience in corporate transactions, the firm said in a
statement. He focuses his practice on oil and gas exploration,
power projects, LNG, petrochemicals and renewables, as well as
infrastructure development projects.  “Over the past five years, our Asian book of business has
grown significantly across all aspects of the energy industry,”
James Atkin, managing partner of V&E’s Tokyo office, said in a
statement.  Vinson & Elkins has 15 offices worldwide, including in the
U.S., Europe, Asia and the  Middle East .  Manatt Phelps Land-Use Lawyer Moves to Loeb & Loeb  Loeb & Loeb LLP expanded its land-use practice with the
addition of partner Paul Rohrer, who joined the firm’s  Los
Angeles  office. Previously, Rohrer was a partner in the Los
Angeles office of Manatt, Phelps & Phillips LLP.  Rohrer represents governmental entities, nonprofit
educational institutions and developers in land use and
entitlement matters in connection with the acquisition, sale,
optioning and ground leasing of real property. He is also
involved in the structuring and negotiation of various
agreements, including joint development agreements, owner
participation agreements, and construction-related agreements,
the firm said in a statement.  Loeb & Loeb has more than 300 attorneys at five offices in
Los Angeles, New York, Chicago, Washington and Nashville,
Tennessee. The firm also has a representative office in Beijing.  Duane Morris’s San Diego Office Adds Special Counsel Swit  Duane Morris LLP added Michael A. Swit to its trial
practice group as special counsel in the San Diego office. Swit
will bolsters the firm’s life sciences practice, particularly in
U.S. Food and Drug Administration regulatory matters.  Before joining Duane Morris, Swit served for seven years as
vice president of Weinberg Group Inc., a scientific and
regulatory consulting firm.  Swit advises life sciences firms on complying with FDA
requirements for drugs, medical devices and other products. His
work includes FDA development strategies, compliance and
enforcement initiatives, recalls and crisis management,
submissions, labeling and advertising, and clinical research
efforts.  Duane Morris has more than 700 attorneys in 23 offices
worldwide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 