-- Disability-Rights Advocates Worry Politics Delays Workplace Rule
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .   a n d   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-04-25T18:05:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/disability-rights-advocates-worry-politics-delays-workplace-rule.html
Advocates for employees with
disabilities said new guidelines on discrimination in the
workplace from the U.S. Equal Employment Commission are being
delayed by political opposition from business.  The agency abruptly deleted the proposal today from the
agenda for a meeting, a week after business groups led by the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce pressed the Obama administration to
block the guidelines.  Employers are required to provide “reasonable
accommodation” for people with disabilities, such as extended
unpaid leave for necessary treatment. The Chamber said it was
concerned that the guidelines, which weren’t released, would
make it harder for employers to deal with requests for leave.  “It just does worry me that political opposition from one
side, sort of in the middle of the process, generates a
political response of delay,” Brian East, senior attorney with
Austin, Texas-based Disability Rights  Texas , said in an
interview. “It reminds me of the early days of agency
regulation and how we went years without regulations and clear
enforceable mandates.”  Commissioners Victoria Lipnic and Chai Feldblum, both
appointed by President  Barack Obama , declined to specify a
reason for the delay, though said they plan to deal with the
guidelines in the coming weeks. The two commissioners said they
are aware that the business community appealed to the Obama
administration.  “We all always listen to outside voices,” Lipnic said.  Chamber Protest  The Chamber, in an April 19 letter to Cass Sunstein,
administrator of the White House Office of Information and
Regulatory Affairs, said it has “significant concerns that the
guidance under consideration by the EEOC will not interpret the
ADA in the balanced manner which Congress directed.” The letter
was co-signed by the Alexandria, Virginia-based Society for
Human Resource Management and the HR Policy Association based in
 Washington .  “Additional time will allow the full commission to engage
with these important questions and to develop the most
effective, credible, the most workable guidance because that is
what people with disabilities in this country deserve and that’s
what employers in this country deserve,” Feldblum said at the
meeting.  At a conference in March, Feldblum said her preference
would be for the commission to update its guidance on reasonable
accommodation, followed later by publishing a separate document
on granting leave.  ‘Reasonable Accommodation’  When drafting the Americans with Disabilities Act, Congress
declined to define “reasonable accommodation,” Feldblum said
at the conference. The law’s history suggests that “unpaid
leave” can be a reasonable accommodation for an individual with
disabilities, Feldblum said at the time.  When Congress passed the Family and Medical Leave Act in
1993, it didn’t resolve differences with the disabilities law,
Feldblum said. That created uncertainty for employers about what
happens after a disabled individual exhausts the maximum 12
weeks of family leave and whatever additional leave an employer
might provide under the disabilities law, she said.  The Chamber said it’s concerned the commission might use
the disabilities law to require employers to give more than 12
weeks of family leave. Issues surrounding implementation of the
disabilities law were discussed at a June 8 commission meeting.  “I know that as of yesterday afternoon, they were still
furiously editing the draft,”  Michael Eastman , the Chamber’s
executive director for labor law policy, said in an e-mail. “I
suspect they ran out of time to finish it.”  The agency in recent weeks also delayed guidance to how to
assure that disabled people have access to swimming pools that
could require the installation of lifts, East said.  “This is the delay of some guidance to enforce a law that
was passed in 1990,” East said. “It is troubling and a lot of
what I heard in response to that was inaccurate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net ;
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  