-- Dogan Online Seeks Four-Fold Sales Growth by 2015 on E-Commerce
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2012-04-25T14:29:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/dogan-online-seeks-four-fold-sales-growth-by-2015-on-e-commerce.html
Dogan Online, a Turkish e-commerce
and Internet advertising company, targets $2.5 billion of annual
sales by 2015, growing more than four times from this year’s
estimated $600 million, its chief executive said.  Dogan Online, controlled by the Dogan family who owns  Dogan
Sirketler Grubu Holding AS (DOHOL) , operates  Turkey ’s oldest full-price
e-commerce website hepsiburada.com among nine websites which
include private shopping site daybuyday.com and had sales of 700
million liras ($395 million) in 2011, chief executive Yenal
Gokyildirim said in an interview April 20.  Turkish e-commerce transactions expanded 57 percent to 22
billion liras in 2011 from a year earlier, according to the
Istanbul-based Interbank Card Center, which monitors credit card
transactions in the country. Rapid growth has given rise to more
than 30 Internet companies starting up in January alone in
Turkey.  Forrester Research Inc. (FORR)  says e-commerce will grow 12
percent annually in  Europe  over the next five years.  “More than half of our growth will come from
hepsiburada.com operations,” Gokyildirim said. “Our aim is to
widen the gap between us and our competitors.” Hepsiburada.com
gets about 15.5 million visitors a month, with half the figure
representing unique visitors, he said.  As many as 4 million of Turkey’s estimated 35 million
 Internet users  do online shopping, Gokyildirim said. “That
shows the growth potential of the industry.”  Dogan Online, which is buying evmanya.com, a startup
shopping website for home decoration goods, is in talks with as
many as four other companies, said Gokyildirim, who worked at
Royal Philips Electronics BV for 14 years before joining Dogan.
The owners of the company may consider an initial public
offering of its shares, although that isn’t a priority, he said.  Dogan Online is “open to negotiations” for a stake sale
and there are some foreign companies interested in such an
acquisition, Gokyildirim said. “This is something we may
consider in the medium-term, not immediately,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  