-- Dollar Falls as Bernanke Says He’s Prepared to Add More Stimulus
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-04-25T22:58:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/dollar-falls-as-bernanke-says-he-s-prepared-to-add-more-stimulus.html
The dollar fell against most of its
major peers after comments by  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  that he’s prepared to “do more” to boost the economy
raised concern more monetary stimulus will debase the greenback.  Bernanke commented at a press conference after the central
bank left borrowing rates unchanged while saying economic growth
will accelerate. South Africa’s rand and the Australian and
Canadian dollars climbed as stocks rallied.  “Bernanke is definitely providing additional color to the
Federal Reserve’s forecast,” said  Nick Bennenbroek , head of
currency strategy at  Wells Fargo & Co . in New York. “The Fed
chairman is perceived by the market as someone who is willing to
be patient and cautious in terms of making any policy moves.”  The dollar fell 0.2 percent to $1.3217 per euro at 5 p.m.
in  New York . It touched $1.3237 earlier, the weakest level since
April 4. The greenback was little changed at 81.34 yen after
rising earlier as much as 0.5 percent.  Japan ’s currency fell 0.2
percent versus the euro to 107.52.  The rand climbed 0.6 percent to 7.7493 per dollar, and the
Aussie, as  Australia ’s currency is nicknamed, added 0.4 percent
to $1.0353.  Canada ’s dollar strengthened 0.4 percent to 98.34
cents to the greenback.  Riskier assets traditionally benefit from stimulus programs
as investors search for higher returns, shunning the low yields
of nations such as the U.S. and Japan.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of shares rallied 1.4
percent.  ‘More as Needed’  “We remain prepared to do more as needed to make sure that
this recovery continues and that inflation stays close to
target,” Bernanke said at a press conference following a two-
day meeting of the  Federal Open Market Committee  in  Washington .  Fed policy makers upgraded their forecasts for growth and
unemployment this year while repeating their view that borrowing
costs are likely to remain “exceptionally low” at least
through late 2014.  They now see the jobless rate averaging between 7.8 percent
and 8 percent in the fourth quarter, compared with estimates in
January of 8.2 percent to 8.5 percent. The economy is forecast
to grow 2.4 percent to 2.9 percent, versus 2.2 percent to 2.7
percent.  “There’s a very muted market reaction,” said  Mark McCormick , a currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman &
Co. in New York. “Right now, the  U.S. economy  appears to be
moderating, and we’re stuck in this zone of inaction where the
Fed is in a wait-and-see mode.”  Low-Rate View  Policy makers led by Bernanke are holding off on additional
steps to boost the economy amid signs the more than two-year
expansion is gaining strength. Still, the  jobless rate  isn’t
declining fast enough to satisfy central bankers, who repeated
their view today that borrowing costs are likely to remain
“exceptionally low” at least through late 2014.  The central bank bought $2.3 trillion of assets in two
rounds of stimulus known as quantitative easing between December
2008 and June 2011. The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which Intercontinental
Exchange Inc. uses to track the greenback against the currencies
of six major U.S. trading partners, lost 14 percent during that
period.  The Fed has also kept its benchmark  interest rate  at zero
to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  The greenback dropped earlier versus most major peers as
Commerce Department data showed U.S.  durable goods  orders slid
4.2 percent in March, the biggest decrease since January 2009,
after a revised 1.9 percent gain the prior month. Economists
forecast a 1.7 percent decrease, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  Worst Performers  The dollar has weakened 2.6 percent this year, the second-
worst performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes. The yen has
tumbled 8.5 percent.  The pound fell today from a seven-month high versus the
dollar after a government report showed the U.K. slipped back
into recession, backing the case for the  Bank of England  to
extend its asset-purchase program.  The British currency dropped as much as 0.4 percent to
$1.6082 was little changed at 81.78 pence per euro after gaining
to 81.44 pence yesterday, the strongest since August 2010.  Hungary’s forint was the best-performing currency after a
government official said the country can start financial-aid
talks with the  International Monetary Fund  and the European
Union as soon as it passes legislation required by the EU.  The currency rose 2.2 percent to 217.53 per dollar and
added 2.1 percent to 287.56 per euro.  Won’t Ratify Pact  The euro weakened earlier versus the dollar after  Francois
Hollande , the leading candidate to become  France ’s next
president, said the country won’t ratify the euro fiscal pact in
its current form if he is elected. He spoke at a press
conference in Paris.  Hollande, a Socialist, has also criticized austerity
measures imposed throughout the euro region, saying he’ll
refocus the economy on growth if he wins. The euro zone’s
economy is forecast to contract 0.4 percent this year.  “Some of the Hollande comments have really had an
impact,” said  Mary Nicola , a currency strategist at BNP Paribas
SA in New York. “The candidates have a week to go and elections
are tight. It’s still a nervous point for investors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  