-- Draghi Softens Tone on Inflation, Calls for Growth Compact
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-04-25T13:16:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/draghi-softens-tone-on-inflation-says-risks-broadly-balanced-.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  softened his tone on the inflation outlook and
called for a “growth compact” as the sovereign debt crisis
weighs on the euro-area economy.  While inflation will remain above the ECB’s 2 percent limit
this year, it will slow in 2013 and “underlying price pressures
should remain modest,” Draghi told lawmakers in Brussels today.
That’s a contrast to the “upside risks” to inflation he warned
of three weeks ago. Risks to the economic outlook remain on the
downside, Draghi said.  Since the ECB lifted its 2012 inflation forecast to 2.4
percent in March, the debt crisis has worsened, threatening to
derail a fragile economic recovery. Spending cuts across the
region are already damping growth, prompting a backlash against
the German-led austerity drive in countries such as  France .  Draghi, whose call for a fiscal compact to toughen budget
rules was adopted by European Union leaders, today urged them to
take similar steps to foster growth.  “We’ve had a fiscal compact,” he said. “What is most
present in my mind now is to have a growth compact. I think
that’s what we have to have.” He didn’t elaborate.  The comments were welcomed by French Socialist presidential
candidate  Francois Hollande . “He’s speaking Hollande’s
language,” said Michael Sapin, an aide to Hollande.  High Uncertainty  The economy of the 17 euro nations shrank 0.3 percent in
the fourth quarter of 2011 and the ECB predicts a contraction of
0.1 percent for this year as a whole.  While “available indicators for the first quarter of 2012
broadly confirm a stabilization in economic activity at a low
level,” uncertainty remains “very, very high,” Draghi said.  “Growth should be supported by foreign demand, the very
low short-term  interest rates  as well as our non-standard
measures,” he said. “At the same time, downside risks relate
in particular to a renewed intensification of tensions in euro-
area sovereign debt markets and their potential spillover to the
real economy.”  The ECB has injected more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3
trillion) of cheap cash into the banking system for three years
to avert a credit crunch. While debt markets rallied after the
tenders in December and February as banks used some of the
liquidity to buy  government bonds , that effect is waning.  Spanish 10-year yields breached 6 percent last week and the
cost of insuring the country’s bonds against default advanced to
a record.  German Stance  Germany  sees reducing debt along with measures to bolster
economic growth as key to winning back financial-market
confidence damaged during the debt crisis, Deputy Finance
Minister Thomas Steffen said today.  Also today, the European Commission proposed a 6.8 percent
increase in the EU budget to 138 billion euros in 2013,
promising growth-oriented investments to turn around the
economy.  For his part, Draghi said any talk of an exit from the
ECB’s stimulus measures is “premature given the current
economic situation.”  While the bank’s bond-purchase program has been inactive
for six weeks, “we don’t want to pre-commit” on whether it
will be canceled altogether or resumed, he said. “We abstain
from making announcements in either direction now.”  Draghi said the ECB’s monetary policy is “quite
accommodative” and not too tight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  