-- Draghi Says Euro Area Is in ‘Most Difficult’ Austerity Phase
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-04-25T10:50:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/draghi-says-euro-area-is-in-most-difficult-austerity-phase.html
European Central Bank President
Mario Draghi comments on fiscal austerity in the euro area,
Spain’s budget plans, special ECB measures to tackle the
financial crisis and the outlook for prices in  Europe .  Draghi spoke to a European Parliament committee today in
Brussels.  On the impact of fiscal austerity and structural changes:  “We are probably in the most difficult phases of a process
where austerity, where fiscal consolidation, has been, or is
being, undertaken and is now starting to, in a sense,
reverberate its contractionary effects.”  “We haven’t seen yet the benefits of this. At the same
time, we are convinced that we have to persevere, to continue on
that path.”  “Structural reforms hit vested interests.”  “We are just in the middle of the river that we are
crossing. The only answer to this is to persevere and for the
ECB to create an environment which would be as forthcoming, as
favorable, to this process as possible.”  “Now the ball is entirely, squarely, in the court of
governments and banks.”  “They have to give evidence. And they are -- governments
and banks -- are giving some evidence that they are actually
using this time in a productive way.”  On the Spanish government’s fiscal-austerity plans:  “Remarkable progress has been achieved and is being
achieved.”  “We have no reason to doubt about the absolute commitment
of the Spanish government to undertake the necessary reforms.”  “From this viewpoint, I think, the whole union is close to
 Spain  and certainly the ECB.”  On the ECB’s Securities Markets Program:  “The SMP is neither eternal nor infinite.”  “It’s been there. But we should not forget that the
primary mandate, that basically the ECB has to act within the
limits of its primary mandate and of the treaty.”  “The limits of the treaty prohibit monetary financing. The
primary mandate of the ECB is ensuring price stability in the
medium term for the whole of the euro area.”  “We have to, in a sense, walk this, in a sense, thin but
delicate balance where we want to preserve the credibility of
the ECB because it’s one of the few things left.”  “To do so means that we have to act within the limits of
our treaties.”  “We don’t want to pre-commit. And frankly there is also
another reason why we abstain from making announcements in
either direction now. The reason is that the uncertainty about
the present situation is very, very high.”  “Any exit strategy is premature given the current economic
situation.”  On the ECB’s Long-Term Refinancing Operations:  “We are confident that central bank liquidity has come
very close to the real economy.”  “Let me emphasize that our non-standard measures are not a
constraint on setting  interest rates  in line with what is
required to ensure  price stability  in the medium term.”  “The Governing Council will use all the instruments at its
disposal to counter possible upside risks to price stability
should they materialize.”  “We also hear concerns that the Eurosystem is exposing
itself to excessive risks. I would like to underscore that the
expansion of our balance sheet is being managed with extreme
prudence.”  “All non-standard measures are temporary in nature.
Moreover, liquidity support cannot substitute for capital or for
sound fiscal and structural policies that bring about
sustainable growth and stability in the European economy.”  On the outlook for prices:  “The Governing Council continues to expect annual
inflation rates to fall below 2 percent in early 2013.”  “Underlying price pressures should remain modest.”  “Risks to the outlook for price developments are broadly
balanced.”  “Upside risks could stem from higher-than-expected  oil
prices  and further indirect tax increases; downside risks could
arise from weaker-than-expected economic activity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  