-- Draghi Says Crisis Boosted Financial Stability Risks in 2011
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-04-25T09:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/draghi-says-crisis-boosted-financial-stability-risks-in-2011.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said the region’s sovereign debt crisis
“considerably” boosted risks to financial stability last year.  “Particularly in the second half of the year, contagion
effects in larger euro-area countries gathered strength amid
rising headwinds from the interplay between vulnerable public
finances and the financial sector,” Draghi said in the foreword
of the ECB’s 2011 Annual Report published today. “This was
accompanied by weakening macroeconomic growth prospects,
especially toward the end of the year.”  The economy of the 17 euro nations contracted 0.3 percent
in the fourth quarter as budget cuts and surging unemployment
damped investment and consumption. The ECB cut its benchmark
 interest rate  to a record low of 1 percent in December and began
to flood markets with more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion)
in cheap three-year loans to unlock credit.  While debt markets rallied after the tenders in December
and February as banks used some of the liquidity to buy
 government bonds , that effect is waning. Spanish Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  said in March the country will miss a 2012 deficit
goal set by the European Union. That pushed Spanish 10-year
yields above 6 percent last week while the cost of insuring the
country’s bonds against default advanced to a record.  “The crisis has shown that ensuring sound public finances
is a prerequisite for overall macroeconomic and financial
stability, as well as for the smooth functioning of Monetary
Union,” the ECB said in the annual report. “The adoption of
the new governance reform package following intense negotiations
on the reform of the European Union framework of economic
governance was a step in the right direction, but does not
constitute the required ‘quantum leap’.”  The ECB also said governments’ fiscal policies must
“adhere strictly” to provisions in the Stability and Growth
Pact. Greece, Ireland and Portugal “need to fully comply with
their program commitments” and “all countries subject to an
excessive deficit procedure need to ensure full compliance with
their budgetary targets,” the ECB said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  