-- Drew & Napier's Singh Says Singapore Law Market Expanding
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-04-25T04:54:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/drew-napier-s-singh-says-singapore-law-market-expanding.html
Davinder Singh , Chief Executive
Officer of Drew & Napier LLC, comments on Singapore’s legal
market. Singapore plans to invite foreign law firms to apply for
a second round of qualifying foreign law practice licenses in
the second half of the year.  On Singapore’s further opening of its legal industry:  “There is and will always be more than enough to go
around. We welcome liberalization. It has given depth and
breadth to Singapore as an international financial center. As
the market expands, there will be an increasing need for foreign
lawyers who have skills which are not so readily found in
Singapore.  ‘‘Drew & Napier and its fees have not felt any negative
impact from the opening up. In fact, it has helped us expand our
network of professional ties, resulting in more and increasingly
challenging work being referred to us.  ‘‘It is not a given that we are headed the Hong Kong way.
The history and legal landscape here are different. The large
firms will continue to remain Singaporean and are likely, in the
years to come, to continue to dominate large swathes of
corporate practice, both local and regional.  ‘‘International firms have always found  Singapore 
attractive because of the many and growing opportunities here.
Singapore is racing ahead of others and more and more
international firms realize that they should be a part of that
trajectory of success and promise.’’  On the impact on domestic law firms:  ‘‘The next generation of leaders of local firms will remain
Singaporean, and rightly so. As the market continues to open up,
they will have to continually ask themselves what the best model
for their firm is. Today’s solution is unlikely to necessarily
provide tomorrow’s answer.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  