-- Health Insurers’ Customer Rebates May Reach $1.3 Billion
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-04-26T16:25:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/health-insurers-to-give-back-1-2-billion-analyst-says.html
UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) ,  WellPoint
Inc. (WLP)  and other health insurers may have to forfeit to consumers
$1.2 billion to $1.3 billion in profits from last year because
of changes to U.S. law that limit revenue from premiums.  Rebates for exceeding the limits, called medical loss
ratio, will amount to about 6 percent of the industry’s $21
billion in profits from 2011, said Matthew Borsch, a  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  analyst. For consumers, that translates into
rebates of as much as $517 a person, according to the  Kaiser
Family Foundation .  The rebates are being promoted as one of the successes of
the 2010 health-care law, as the Obama administration awaits
word from the  Supreme Court  on whether portions of the overhaul
violate the Constitution. Changes to the health system included
limiting to no more than 20 percent the premium revenue insurers
can keep for administrative costs and profit.  “Today’s news is yet another sign of how the Affordable
Care Act is already strengthening the health-care system,”
Health and Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  said in an
e-mail. “The 80-20 rule ensures that consumers get a good value
from the money they spend on their insurance plan by requiring
80 cents on every premium dollar to go towards better health
care instead of overhead and executive bonuses.”  The largest checks based on the national average, $127
each, will go to people who don’t have insurance through their
employer and instead buy coverage on their own, Kaiser, a
nonprofit research group in  Menlo Park ,  California , said in a
 report  today. People employed by large companies will receive
rebates averaging about $14 each, the foundation said. Insurers
will pay those rebates to the companies, not to individuals.  Excess Costs  “Greater regulatory scrutiny of private insurance is
improving value and helping to get excess costs out of the
system,” Kaiser President and Chief Executive Officer  Drew Altman , said in a statement.  Kaiser estimated that the rebates will total $1.3 billion,
while Borsch at Goldman said the figure will be $1.2 billion, or
5.7 percent of $21 billion in 2011 profits. Both relied on data
insurers submitted to state regulators last week.  The cost to the industry is “more positive than
negative,” as the government had forecast refunds of about $1.4
billion, Borsch said in a note to clients yesterday.  Eight publicly traded insurers, also including Bloomfield,
Connecticut-based  Cigna Corp. (CI)  and Aetna Inc., would pay a
combined $850 million of those rebates this year because they
exceeded the limits, Borsch said. UnitedHealth will pay the
most, $307 million, Borsch estimated. A spokesman for the
company, Daryl Richard, said Borsch’s estimate is accurate.  ‘Unpredictable’ Costs  Aetna, based in Hartford,  Connecticut , will pay about $177
million, and Indianapolis-based WellPoint $94 million, Borsch
estimates.  Coventry Health Care Inc. (CVH) , based in Bethesda,
 Maryland , will pay about $50 million, he projected. Nonprofit
Blue Cross Blue Shield plans will owe $250 million, Borsch said.  The industry expected to pay rebates,  Robert Zirkelbach , a
spokesman for America’s Health Insurance Plans, a Washington-
based trade group, said in a phone interview last week.  “Given the inherent unpredictable nature of health-care
costs, it won’t be surprising if some plans are paying rebates
to customers in certain markets,” he said.  Aetna (AET) , the third-biggest U.S. insurer, was able to better
price some plans for 2012 after seeing which ones generated
rebates last year, Chief Financial Officer Joseph Zubretsky said
in a telephone interview.  State Waivers  “If there was a particular geography in the country that
was in significant rebate status for 2011, we may have chosen to
take those funds and include them in the pricing of the product
for 2012,” he said.  Rebates may be lower than forecast because insurers
“proactively” reduced their premiums to avoid paying back
customers, Borsch said. His estimate doesn’t reflect waivers the
government granted to insurers in seven states, allowing them
higher profit limits, he said.  Those waivers won’t affect rebates that plans pay by more
than about 1 percent, he said. Minnetonka, Minnesota-based
UnitedHealth is the biggest U.S. health insurer by sales.  People in Texas and  Florida  -- states that had their
requests for waivers denied by the Obama administration -- will
receive the largest rebates, Kaiser said. Texas consumers and
businesses will receive $186 million; Florida rebates will total
$149 million.  Hawaii is the only state where no one will receive a
rebate, Kaiser said.  Rebates could take the form of either checks sent to
insurers’ customers or discounts on future premiums, Kaiser
said.  Consumers probably won’t see any notable reduction in their
premiums because other provisions of the health law are
increasing costs, Zirkelbach said.  “If the goal is to bring down the rising cost of health
care, having this arbitrary cap on administrative costs isn’t
the way to do it,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  