-- HeartWare Implantable Pump Wins U.S. FDA Panel’s Backing
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-04-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/heartware-implantable-pump-wins-fda-advisory-panel-backing-1-.html
HeartWare International Inc. (HTWR) ’s
implantable pump for heart-transplant candidates won the backing
of U.S. advisory panel members who said the device would provide
dying patients a lifeline.  The Food and Drug Administration panel of academics and
physicians voted 9-2 that the benefits outweigh the product’s
risks at a meeting yesterday in Gaithersburg,  Maryland . The FDA
isn’t required to follow the group’s recommendations.  The U.S. market for left ventricular pumps may pass
$750 million in 2015, said  Jason Mills , an analyst with
Canaccord Adams Inc. in  San Francisco . If the HeartWare
Ventricular Assist System also is approved for patients who
aren’t eligible for a transplant, the Framingham, Massachusetts-
based company may split the U.S. market with Thoratec Corp.’s
HeartMate II by 2015, Mills said in a telephone interview before
the vote.  The HeartWare and Thoratec devices are intended to take
over for a failing heart, extending patients’ lives or gaining
time to find a donor for transplant. FDA staff said in an April
23  report  that they were concerned about stroke rates and
missing data for 80 percent of patients that tested the
HeartWare system.  “Lack of data really means nothing to a patient that is
dying, and this pump is a good alternative,” said Joseph Amato,
a panel member and a doctor at Rush University Medical Center in
 Chicago .  The panel also voted 8-3 that the pump is safe and 11-0
that it’s effective.  Failing Hearts  Heart failure  is a progressive disease that strikes 1 in 5
Americans older than 40. It occurs when a damaged organ can’t
supply enough oxygen-rich blood to keep other organs, such as
the lungs, working. There are few treatments and no cure.  HeartWare was supposed to collect central venous pressure
or right atrial pressure of patients using the company’s device
and of those in a registry who were considered the control
group. The company gathered the data for 51 percent of patients
and for the rest replaced the missing value with the treatment
group median, the FDA staff said.  While panel members said they wanted to have the data, it
likely isn’t a “fatal flaw” in the study, Richard Page,
chairman of the panel, said during the meeting. Page is with the
 University of Wisconsin  School of Medicine and  Public Health .  Stroke Rates  Fifteen patients on the HeartWare device experienced
strokes about six months into testing, according to the staff
report. This data “suggest a trend toward higher stroke rates”
with the pump compared to other devices, the staff wrote.  “The stroke rate given the alternative these patients are
facing, which is certain or imminent death, I think it’s
acceptable,” David Slotwiner, with the Long Island Jewish
Medical Center and a panel member, said during the meeting.  Thoratec dominates the worldwide ventricular assist device
market with about 68 percent of the market share, according to
data compiled by a Bloomberg analyst, Michael Manns. The
Pleasanton, California-based company’s HeartMate had  $366
million (THOR)  in revenue last year.  HeartWare’s device is sold in  Europe . It’s implanted next
to the heart, avoiding the abdominal surgery required by
competing devices, the company said. Thoratec’s HeartMate II is
placed below the diaphragm in the abdomen. HeartMate II is
approved for heart-failure patients whether they are eligible
for transplantation.  HeartWare is recruiting patients for a  study  on the
device’s use in patients who aren’t eligible for heart
transplant, according to the National Institutes of Health
website clinicaltrials.gov.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  