-- EDF Wins Reprieve as Hollande Cools on Greens Nuclear Pact
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-04-25T16:18:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/edf-wins-reprieve-as-hollande-cools-on-greens-nuclear-pact-1-.html
Electricite de France SA ,  Europe ’s
largest power producer, may get a boost from frontrunner
 Francois Hollande ’s backing off from a nuclear pact with the
Greens, who flopped in the first round of the elections.  Socialist candidate Hollande has distanced himself from an
accord with the Greens to shut 24 of France’s 58 nuclear
reactors by 2025 in light of union support for the industry and
the perceived threat to jobs.  The Greens candidate Eva Joly -- with her trademark round
green glasses -- got 2.3 percent of the vote in the first round
of the French presidential election on April 22. Hollande led
with 28.6 percent, while President  Nicolas Sarkozy  got 27.2
percent. Hollande and Sarkozy will square off on May 6.  “Eva Joly failed to seduce French voters,” said Nicolas
Tenzer, the director of CERAP, a political think-tank in Paris.
“There won’t be a radical change in French nuclear policy under
the Socialists.”  The nuclear meltdown in Fukushima,  Japan , last year had
sparked a debate on “over-reliance” on atomic energy in
France, which gets more than 75 percent of its electricity from
nuclear power, the most in the world. With Hollande putting the
pact on the back burner, the risk Paris-based EDF, the world’s
biggest nuclear operator, will be forced to close many reactors
in the case of a Socialist victory, has waned.  “The threat of shutdowns for EDF won’t be as immediate and
severe as some had believed,” said Myriam Cohen, an analyst at
Alphavalue in Paris. Brokerages Oddo & Cie and Berenberg Bank
recommended buying EDF shares this week.  The Pact  EDF rose 5 percent, the biggest gain in five months, to
16.22 euros. The shares have fallen about 14 percent this year.  Hollande’s pledge to lower  France ’s reliance on nuclear
energy shook investor confidence in the state-controlled
operator EDF. Sarkozy backs prolonging the operating lives of
existing reactors past 40 years and developing new ones.  Investor concern about the effects of a Hollande victory
peaked in November following the Socialists-Greens accord. The
never-published manifesto sent EDF share prices plummeting about
10 percent on Nov. 16 and Nov. 17. It cast doubt on the
utility’s ability to produce nuclear energy relatively cheaply
after spending billions on improving safety.  The Greens want France to phase out nuclear energy
altogether like Germany decided to do after Fukushima. The
Sarkozy government’s unwavering support for nuclear power led
Joly to call Industry Minister Eric Besson a “nucleopath.”  On the campaign trail, Sarkozy has raised the specter of
massive job losses and industry exodus from France without
nuclear power. EDF Chief Executive Officer  Henri Proglio  has
said a complete exit from nuclear energy would cost 400 billion
euros ($534 billion) and threaten one million jobs.  ‘Gentle Transition’  The energy source keeps French electricity prices among the
lowest in Europe and gives it lower  carbon emissions  than other
large European Union countries.  Under Hollande’s near-term plan, EDF’s oldest plant at
Fessenheim will be closed within five years because of safety
concerns, the new model EPR at Flamanville in Normandy will be
completed and the proportion of power production from nuclear
will be lowered to 50 percent by around 2025.  “We need a gentle transition,” Socialist deputy Francois Brottes told an energy conference in Paris this month. “We
aren’t completely undoing one type of energy production.”  The less-drastic plan prompted ratings upgrades this month
on EDF shares at Kepler Capital Markets and HSBC Holdings Plc.  “The greatest tangible difference between a Socialist and
a Conservative win in the upcoming presidential elections
appears to be Fesseneheim, which hardly matters for the value of
EDF shares,” wrote Kepler analyst Ingo Becker, who recommends
buying the stock.  EDF Tariffs  EDF CEO Proglio is pushing ahead with plans to spend
millions improving safety at Fessenheim. EDF has spent more than
380 million euros since 2009 on the reactors so they can pass
once-a-decade safety inspections.  “Fessenheim is complicated because it provides base power
for southern  Germany ,” said Dominique Miniere, EDF’s director
of nuclear production. “Any shutdown can’t be done overnight.”  For EDF, there may be other worries, however.  With the French economy slowing and joblessness at a 12-
year high, it may be difficult for EDF to push through an
increase in the government-set tariff no matter who is elected.  Hollande has promised new rates for power, natural gas and
water to help 8 million people struggling to pay energy bills.  It’s unlikely that there will be “clarity over tariffs in
coming years,” according to Kepler’s Becker.  Proglio’s Fate  An Hollande victory might also mean changes in the
executive suite at EDF. Although the Hollande team has said
there won’t be a witch hunt of heads of state-controlled
companies should he come to power, “the management team at EDF
may be replaced,” said UBS AG analyst Per Lekander. “A
politician could be named.”  EDF’s Proglio, who was then CEO of Veolia Environnement SA,
was among a handful of people to celebrate Sarkozy’s election
win in May 2007 at a restaurant on the Champs Elysees avenue.
EDF spokeswoman Carol Trivi declined to comment on the
presidential election and its implications for the company.  Hollande’s campaign this month called “scandalous” an
increase since 2009 in salaries of EDF top managers.  “How can we accept this intolerable behavior?” asked a
statement from Hollande’s spokesman, promising that compensation
will be reined in at state-controlled companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  