-- Edinburgh Money Man Showing World Japan Companies Best Bargains
-- B y   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n
-- 2012-04-25T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/edinburgh-money-man-showing-world-japan-companies-best-bargains.html
A search for cheaper stocks has led
a Scottish disciple of U.S. mutual fund pioneer John Templeton
to bet a bigger chunk of his firm on  Japan. (NKY)   Sandy Nairn, who founded Edinburgh Partners Ltd. in 2003
after a decade working with Templeton, increased the proportion
of his global stock fund invested in the world’s third-largest
economy to 22 percent from 13 percent at the end of 2009. The
division is now roughly in line with  Europe  and the U.S., where
he has been reducing investments, Nairn said.  “There seems to be this view that the Japanese are
congenitally uncompetitive and that wouldn’t be mine,” Nairn
said in an interview at his office in the Scottish capital.
“Just as in the early 1990s they were taking over the world,
both of those views are completely wrong.”  That thinking from the heart of Edinburgh’s 500 billion-
pound ($805 billion) fund industry jibes with predictions
elsewhere that once people realize the value of Japanese stocks,
prices will take off. David Herro, chief investment officer at
Harris Associates LP in  Chicago  and Morningstar Inc.’s
international manager of the decade, bought them last year and
still calls Japan the cheapest developed market in the world.  Nairn, 50, whose firm oversaw 8.7 billion pounds at the end
of 2011, is banking on being right to boost performance that has
lagged behind rivals. His 100 million-pound  EP Global
Opportunities Fund (EPG)  ranked 26th of 33 comparable funds in the
three years ended April 16, gaining 38 percent versus an average
83 percent for its peers, data compiled by Morningstar show.  Motorbikes, Smoking  “Our performance over the past couple of years hasn’t been
that great because this hasn’t happened yet,” said Nairn, who
started his career in the 1980s investing in  Japan .  Nairn cut the proportion of his investments in the U.S. to
18.4 percent at the end of 2011 from 23 percent two years
earlier, according to  annual statements  from the global fund.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has rallied 9 percent this year
on optimism the economy will recover more quickly.  Holdings in Japan include Shizuoka-based motorcycle maker
Yamaha Motor Co. and  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914) , the world’s fourth-
largest cigarette producer, Nairn said in an April 23 e-mail.
Yamaha has gained 7.7 percent this year and Tokyo-based Japan
Tobacco has advanced 28 percent.  The average price-to-book value for companies in the  Topix
Index (TPX) , a broad benchmark of Japanese stocks, is about one, 
compared with a ratio of 2.2 for the  S&P 500 (SPX) , according to data 
compiled by Bloomberg. Yamaha’s is at 1.3 times book value and
Japan Tobacco is at 2.7, the data show.  ‘Huge Strides’  That means Japanese companies on average trade in line with
what their assets might be worth, while in the U.S., they are
valued at more than twice their assets. They also trade at 13.9
times estimated earnings, compared with a ratio of 13 for U.S.
companies, the figures show.  “If you look at corporate earnings in Japan from 1990 till
today, they look terrible, but if you look from 2000, they look
better than most developed markets,” said Nairn. “All it’s
based on is that margins are very low and we think they’ll go up
a bit because they’ve made huge strides in productivity.”  Nairn worked for Templeton Investment Management throughout
the 1990s and was director of equity research. He became chief
investment officer at Scottish Widows Investment Partnership,
part of Lloyds Banking Group, in 2000. The Scot, who co-wrote
the book “ Templeton’s Way with Money ” published this year,
left to found  Edinburgh Partners  three years later.  Stifled Growth  Rival money managers in Edinburgh are less optimistic about
Japan. The strain on the economy of more people retiring will
continue to stifle growth,  Mike Turner , head of global strategy
at Aberdeen Asset Management.  Japan’s $5.5 trillion  economy  shrank 0.7 percent last year
after the March earthquake and tsunami and will expand 2 percent
this year before growth slows to 1.7 percent in 2013, the
 International Monetary Fund  said in its  latest report . About 23
percent of its 127 million people are older than 65, compared
with 8.9 percent in  China , according to the  CIA Factbook , which
cited figures from last year.  “We’re not dismissing it from a shorter-term
perspective,” Turner said at his office in Edinburgh on March
29. “But from a longer-term perspective I don’t think you’ll
ever see us get very excited to have this huge overweight in
Japan because you’re swimming against the tide.”  The benchmark Nikkei 225 Index lost 21 percent in dollar
terms over the past five years, almost three times the amount of
the  S&P 500 , Bloomberg data show. This year, the Nikkei is up
6.8 percent, while yen has lost almost 6 percent.  The best-performing stocks in the Nikkei this year are
Tokyo-based  Oki Electric Industry Co. (6703) , up 87 percent in U.S.
dollar terms, and  Advantest Corp. (6857) , up 55 percent.  “If you want to buy one, get in line, even for the big
ones, because it’s been depressed for so long,” Nairn said in
his Georgian meeting room. “I also think the rest of the world
has very little knowledge of Japan now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  