-- Electrolux Gains Most in Five Months on U.S. Price Increases
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-04-25T08:46:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/electrolux-gains-most-in-five-months-on-u-s-price-increases-1-.html
Electrolux AB (ELUXB) , the world’s second-
biggest appliance maker, rose the most in more than five months
after reporting profit that beat analysts’ estimates as it
raised prices in North America.  The shares  advanced  as much as 7.8 percent, the biggest
intraday gain since Oct. 28, and were up 7.2 percent at 148.1
kronor as of 10:24 a.m. in Stockholm, where the company is
based. The shares have soared 35 percent this year after
plunging 43 percent in 2011, valuing the company at 45.7 billion
kronor ($6.8 billion).  “The trend is very strong for Electrolux right now,” said
Christer Magnergard, an analyst at DNB Bank ASA in Oslo who
recommends that investors buy the shares. “In  North America ,
together with rivals they have raised prices a lot and that’s
really starting to show now, and the effects will be big also in
coming quarters.”  First-quarter net income rose to 561 million kronor from
457 million kronor a year earlier, Electrolux said in a
statement today. Fourteen analysts on average estimated a profit
of 483 million kronor in a  Bloomberg survey . Sales rose 10
percent to 25.9 billion kronor.  “We spent all year last year trying to get prices up
around the world, particularly in North America,” Chief
Executive Officer Keith McLoughlin said in a phone interview.
“Now we’re seeing it directly and materially in year-over-year
comparisons.”  Bottom Line  The price increases in North America are in the “low, mid-
single digits,” the 56-year-old executive said. “You get a few
hundred basis points and it drops straight to the bottom line,”
he said.  The maker of Frigidaire refrigerators and AEG vacuum
cleaners has suffered from the decline in  consumer confidence  in
mature markets and high raw-material costs. The company expects
a “certain” degree of improvement in the U.S. market by the
end of 2012, it said today.  “There are some positive trends in the U.S. housing
market” with more single-family homes being built, spurring
sales of dishwashers, air conditioners and dryers, the CEO said.
“It will take time to recover,” but the country is probably
past the bottom of a home-building slump, he said.  Electrolux, which has about 35 plants, will close several
of them, mainly in North America and  Europe , McLoughlin said,
reiterating comments from February. He declined to say which
plants may shut.  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR) , the world’s biggest appliance maker, is
scheduled to report profit figures tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in  Stockholm   at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  