-- Emerging-Market Stocks Gain on Apple Earnings, Hungary
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-04-25T21:28:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/emerging-stocks-gain-as-apple-suppliers-jump-hungary-nears-deal.html
Most emerging-market stocks
climbed, led by shares in Hungary and Mexico, as companies from
Apple Inc. to  Boeing Inc. (BA)  had better-than-forecast earnings and
the U.S. said it will keep interest rates low.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index  was little changed at
1,011.54 by 4:30 p.m. in New York, with 403 stocks rising and
360 declining. Information technology and consumer companies
advanced as Indian alcohol distributor United Spirits Ltd. rose
the most since Jan. 25 and  Inotera Memories Ltd. (3474) , a Taiwanese
chipmaker, had its biggest jump in more than seven months.  Hungary’s  BUX Index (BUX)  added the most since Nov. 11 after the
nation got the go-ahead from the European Union’s executive arm
to pursue an aid package. Mexico’s IPC Index climbed for the
first time in three days and  Brazil ’s  Bovespa Index  slipped.  Quarterly earnings-per-share  for the 174 companies in the
 Standard & Poor’s  500 Index that have reported since April 10
rose 11 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Federal Reserve policy makers today repeated the view that
borrowing costs are likely to remain “exceptionally low,”
between zero to 0.25 percent, through 2014 amid heightening
inflation and middling economic growth.  “The low  interest rate  motivates investors to invest in
places where the returns are theoretically better,” Bernard Horn, president and portfolio manager of Polaris Capital
Management, said by phone from Boston. “As a result, we’re
seeing some leaking of liquidity into emerging markets.”  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  has climbed 10.4 percent
this year, while the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  added 8.7 percent.
Companies on the gauge of developing nations are valued at 10.5
times estimated profits, compared with the MSCI World’s multiple
of 12.5 times.  Brazil, Russia  The IShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund , the most-traded ETF to track developing-nation shares,
rose 0.9 percent to $41.99 in New York.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets  ETF
Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a gauge of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, tumbled 2.5 percent to 25.59.  Brazil’s benchmark index fell 0.4 percent as Itau Unibanco
Holding SA, the country’s biggest lender by market value,
dropped 5.9 percent after the company reported it expects losses
from bad loans to be between 6 billion reais and 6.4 billion
reais in the second quarter. Common shares of  Usinas
Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais  S.A. advanced 2.8 percent. Mexico’s
IPC rose 0.6 percent, with Cemex SAB gaining 6.1 percent.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  in Russia rose 0.3 percent, paring losses
of 3.2 percent over the past two days, as OAO Aeroflot rose the
most in almost two weeks. The Moscow-based company gained 2
percent after Kommersant, a Russian publication, reported
Russia’s biggest airline is considering buying Belarus’s Belavia
air carrier.  Hungary Progress  The Hungarian benchmark  BUX stock index  jumped 4.2 percent
to lead gains in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index for a second
day as  OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) , the nation’s biggest lender, added 6.7
percent and  Mol Nyrt. (MOL) , the country’s largest refiner, gained 5.8
percent.  The European Commission said today it welcomes the
possibility to start talks on a joint program with the European
Union and the  International Monetary Fund  to shore up the
recession-threatened country’s finances, which are currently
saddled with a junk credit rating. The forint advanced 1.8
percent to 289 per euro.  The  PX Index (PX)  surged 1.4 percent in Prague while the
 FTSE/Africa All Shares Index (JALSH)  jumped 0.6 percent in Johannesburg
and Turkey’s  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  added 0.4 percent.  India Revision  India ’s BSE India Sensitive Index, or  Sensex (SENSEX) , fell 0.3
percent after Standard & Poor’s lowered India’s local-currency
credit outlook to negative from stable. The country’s government
faces the widest budget  deficit  among the biggest emerging
economies and has set out record borrowing needs for 2012-2013.
The gap in the year through March was 5.9 percent of gross
domestic product, compared with a projection of 5.1 percent for
2013.  “We are revising the outlook on the long-term ratings on
India to negative to reflect at least a one-in-three likelihood
of a downgrade if the external position continues to
deteriorate, growth prospects diminish, or progress on fiscal
reforms remains slow,” S&P said.  Wipro Limited (WPRO) , India’s third-largest software exporter,
dropped 7.2 percent, the most since May 2009, after its forecast
for information-technology revenue lagged behind some analysts’
estimates. United Spirits, a manufacturer of alcohol and
spirits, rose 8.9 percent after the Economic Times reported
London-based alcoholic beverage marketer  Diageo Plc. (DGE)  was in
talks to buy a minority stake in the company. United, based in
Bangalore, India, said the report on the stake sale was
factually incorrect.  State-run gas utility company Gail India Limited fell 3.3
percent to the lowest since Aug. 2009 after the New Delhi-based
company suspended cargo operations at a liquefied natural gas
terminal in Dabhol, India.  Benchmark Gains  Suppliers of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the world’s largest company by
market value, gained after the company reported profit that
almost doubled last quarter, reflecting demand for the iPhone in
 China .  “The support from the better earnings is helping to lift
all global risk asset valuations and give some comfort that
growth might be doing reasonably well,”  Nick Chamie , the head
of emerging markets at  RBC Capital Markets  in Toronto, said by
phone.  In Taiwan, the  Taiex Index (TWSE)  advanced 0.9 percent led by
gains in electronics companies.  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317) ,
an assembler for Apple products, climbed 2.4 percent.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  jumped 0.8 percent and the
 Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese stocks listed in
 Hong Kong  was little changed as 32 companies gained and 13
declined.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 351, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harvey in  New York  at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  