-- Emirates NBD Net Drops After One-Time Gain, Beats Estimates
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2012-04-25T14:20:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/emirates-nbd-net-drops-after-one-time-gain-beats-estimates-2-.html
Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) , the  United Arab
Emirates ’ biggest bank, said net income fell 55 percent in the
first-quarter as a gain from the sale of a stake in a subsidiary
last year wasn’t repeated. The profit beat analysts’ estimates.  Net income dropped to 641 million dirhams ($175 million),
or 10 fils a share, from 1.41 billion dirhams, or 24 fils a
share, in the year-earlier period, the bank  56 percent owned  by
the Dubai government said in a  statement  to Nasdaq Dubai today.
That topped the 570 million-dirham  median estimate  of three
analysts, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Emirates NBD made
1.84 billion dirhams last year from selling 49 percent of its
credit-card processing unit Network International LLC.  Banks in the second-largest Arab economy are recovering
from a slowdown in lending triggered by the global financial
crisis and a real estate crash in Dubai, which hurt  investment
banking  and led to an increase in bad loans. Emirates NBD’s
provisions, including for loan losses, fell 20 percent in the
first quarter to 1.1 billion dirhams, pushing the ratio of non-
performing loans to gross loans to 14.1 percent in March from
13.8 percent in December, the bank said.  The bank expects lending to rise by as much as five percent
in 2012, Chief Financial Officer Surya Subramanian told
reporters on a conference call today. Loan growth in the first
quarter “is in line with our full-year expectation of a 4 to 5
percent growth,” he said.  Bond Sales  Emirates NBD and its unit have already raised 7.4 billion
dirhams this year from bond sales and private placements,
Subramanian said. The bank’s loan book was unchanged at 204.1
billion dirhams at the end of March compared with December.
Deposits rose 8 percent from December to 208.5 billion dirhams.  Although funds from bond sales “comes to us at a higher
cost, the impact of which will flow through from the second
quarter, we expect this to be offset by the excellent
performance in retail deposit growth,” he said.  First-quarter net interest income rose 8 percent to 1.78
billion dirhams, while non-interest income jumped 49 percent to
909 million dirhams, the bank said. Net interest margin, the
difference between what the bank earns from loans and what it
pays out on deposits, fell to 2.63 percent in the quarter from
2.85 percent in the fourth quarter last year, the bank said.  “These results reflect the concern that we have about
asset quality,” Shabbir Malik, an analyst at EFG-Hermes Holding
SAE said in a phone interview from Dubai today. Revenue has
increased “mainly because of stronger investment returns, but
the interest income is down because of lower spreads,” he said.  New Rules  The lender’s shares  fell 2.8 percent to 2.81 dirhams at the
close in Dubai today, extending their decline this year to 4.4
percent. That compares with a 7.4 percent gain in the  Bloomberg
GCC 200 Financial Index. (BGCCFINL)   Emirates NBD said it expects its non-performing-loan ratio
to rise to between 14 percent and 15 percent this year and as
high as 16 percent in 2013. The bank is one of the biggest
lenders to investment company Dubai Group LLC, which is in talks
with banks to reschedule $6 billion of loans.  Emirates NBD is assessing the impact of new central bank
rules on limiting lending to the emirate’s government and state-
owned companies and will discuss the issue with central bank,
Chief Executive Officer  Rick Pudner  said in the call.  U.A.E. banks can lend no more than 100 percent of their
capital to local governments and the same to government-related
entities, the  central bank  said April 4. There was no limit
under previous rules. Emirates NBD’s exposure to sovereign loans
was 130 percent of regulatory capital at the end of 2011,
according to the 2011 financial statements.  The new rules “will affect the levels of allowable lending
to various government entities,” said Pudner. “It will have an
affect but we need to sit down along with other banks and also
the central bank to discuss the overall timing of this impact
and how we are going to address it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  