-- Empellon Serves Sublime Glands, No Tacos: Ryan Sutton
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-04-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/empellon-serves-sublime-glands-no-tacos-ryan-sutton.html
Empellon Cocina, a modern Mexican
spot in  Manhattan , doesn’t serve tacos. The policy is clearly
stated in a 400 word  essay  on the website.  Here’s an excerpt: “We are avoiding tacos altogether at
this restaurant because we feel that tacos would make our lives
too easy, mentally.”  Get your No. 2 pencils, everyone. It’s time for dinner with
chef Alex Stupak.  The 32-year-old Stupak bathes squid in an immersion
circulator at 59 degrees Celsius for 30 minutes, after which
it’s seared and paired with a chilhuacle chile and “29 other
ingredients.”  Let me simplify: The calamari is mind-numbingly good. The
tender spirals of white squid are the correct counterpoint to
black mole sauce and seriously smoky chorizo mayonnaise.  That’s the fun part. Stupak’s food is only complicated
until you start eating, at which point it becomes delicious.  Empellon’s dark dining room sports a candlelit statue of
the Virgin Mary, standing atop “The  Big Fat Duck Cookbook ,” a
culinary Bible that explains how rotary evaporators and liquid
nitrogen make everything taste better. Perhaps she is meant to
be blessing the food.  A plate of  Empellon ’s lamb sweetbreads is cooked so soft
they’re like a carnivore’s panna cotta, trembling until they
burst into a musky bliss.  Masa Crisps  Stupak used to be the sweets guy at Alinea and WD-50
turning out bendable chocolate and other chemistry experiments
disguised as food.  Then he gave up his candy credentials to serve fried pork
rinds. Stupak and his wife, pastry chef Lauren Resler, opened
their first Empellon in the  West Village  last year. It serves
excellent tacos.  Then in February they gave birth to Empellon Cocina in the
East Village. It serves everything else. Sort of.  Can I get some tortilla chips? Nope.  Out come masa crisps in their place. They pack the robust
flavor of corn with the unique crunch of  Kix  breakfast cereal.
They’re paired with pistachio-studded guacamole ($12).  Heat comes in many forms. Gentle is the ocean trout, topped
with oily roe here, cream cheese there. And just when you think
Stupak is deconstructing a bagel, you detect the soft pinch of
sal de gusano -- roasted caterpillar-spiked chile salt ($17).  Don’t worry, you can’t taste the caterpillars.  Wicked Punch  Ratchet up the spice with black bean vermicelli ($15), a
South of the Border riff on squid ink spaghetti. The pasta is
infused with pasilla oaxaquena, producing a wicked punch that’s
like Italian pepperoncini to the power of ten.  Finally arrives the devious habanero salsa. The pink pulp
looks like it comes from a peach, but expect at least 15 seconds
of sting with each slurp.  Stupak pairs the salsa with Empellon’s best dish: Yucatan
tamal colado ($9). A mash of lard-confited chicken thigh sits
atop strained masa.  Mull that over with a mezcal margarita ($13) or talk to
beverage director (and brother-in-law) Matt Resler about
something stronger; this guy speaks tequila as a second
language. He might steer beginners towards the El Necio,
blending  El Capo  Blanco with vermouth -- a clean agave martini.  The neutral notes deserve an easygoing, approachable dish
like the Chatham cod with chilaquiles verdes.  Advanced imbibers will order the Fidencio Tobala ($16). The
mezcal’s spice cuts through the creamy fat of shellfish flan,
while the tobacco notes of a Fidencio Madrecuixe ($20) work with
lobster covered in tetilla cheese ($19).  The latter dish comes with a side of house made tortillas,
and so does the Wagyu tartare ($16). The meat, a bit bland at
first, becomes gently more flavorful as it warms up in the
tortilla. It’s all quite brilliant.  Stupak is still learning his Mexican ways. His menudo ($14)
tastes more like clams than tripe, though some won’t object to
that.  Skip the spongy rabbit and order the duck with tinga
poblana ($24), a spicy tomato sauce that caused me to devour the
dish in five minutes flat, to the horror of my date.  Finish with rice pudding, as airy as foam, or frozen mango
mousse, wearing a sexy lime perfume.  Modern Mexican indeed.   Rating: ***  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Most small plates under $20.  Sound Level: Sometimes over 80, but open-air windows and
soundproofing keep the acoustics in check.  Inside Tip: Go with a group and share everything.  Special Feature: Over 100 tequilas and mezcals.  Back on My Own Dime: Frequently.  Empellon Cocina is at 105 First Avenue. Information: +1-
212-780-0999 or  http://www.empellon.com .  
Sound-Level (in decibels): 51 to 55: Quiet enough to converse.
56 to 60: Speak up. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to hear your
date. 66 to 70: You’re reading one another’s lips. 71 to 75:
You’re yelling. 76 to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on Broadway and  Greg
Evans  on film.  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 