-- England’s Football League to Adopt Financial Fair Play Rules
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-04-25T13:57:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/england-s-football-league-to-adopt-financial-fair-play-rules.html
England’s Football League, which
covers the three soccer divisions below the Premier League, will
introduce regulations to put caps on spending after teams
approved the measure.  Beginning next season, clubs will be required to limit
losses and owner investment under “Financial Fair Play,” the
Football League said on its  website . The rules are similar to
those designed by European soccer’s governing body UEFA for
clubs in continental competitions.  The  regulations  will entail sanctions for non-compliance
commencing from the 2014-15 campaign, for which Championship
teams have approved a move to limit total losses to 6 million
pounds ($9.7 million) and owner investment to 3 million pounds.  Third- and fourth-tier clubs will operate a system based on
curbing players’ wages as a percentage of sales.  “It means for the first time, all 72 Football League clubs
have agreed to take concerted actions towards controlling their
financial destiny,” league chairman Greg Clarke said in a
statement. “While we cannot promise that these rules will
deliver results overnight, they will begin to lay the
foundations for a league of financially self-sustaining football
clubs.”  The penalties for non-compliance will be either a transfer
embargo or a fine. An offending Championship club will be fined
if it is promoted to the Premier League, while one remaining in
the lower league will be banned from signing new players until
it shows compliance with the regulations.  UEFA’s rules could lead to clubs being barred from  Europe ’s
elite  Champions League  from 2014 for failing to meet criteria on
limiting losses. The regulations came in response to rising debt
across the continent and the effect of cash infusions from
wealthy benefactors in its competitions.  Like England’s Premier League, the second division has been
unable to keep costs under control, even with rising revenue.
Operating losses in the Championship during the 2009-10 season
increased for the sixth straight year to a record 133 million
pounds, according to a report published last year by accountant
Deloitte LLP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 