-- Equity Residential FFO Climbs on Surging U.S. Apartment Demand
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2012-04-25T21:06:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/equity-residential-ffo-climbs-on-surging-u-s-apartment-demand.html
Equity Residential (EQR) , the largest
publicly traded U.S. apartment landlord, said first-quarter
funds from operations climbed as the nation’s rents increased
amid surging tenant demand.  FFO, which gauges a property company’s ability to generate
cash, increased to $188.3 million, or 60 cents a share, from
$173.5 million, or 56 cents, a year earlier, the Chicago-based
real estate investment trust said today in a statement. The
average of 20 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg was for
FFO of 62 cents a share. The company reported normalized FFO,
which excludes some items, of 61 cents per share compared with
56 cents a year ago.  An improving  job market  and stricter mortgage-lending
standards that impede homebuying are fueling demand for
apartments nationally, allowing landlords to increase rents.
Multifamily owners’ rental revenue probably will climb 6.3
percent this year, according to  Axiometrics Inc.  Apartment REITs
have pushed rents up 2.8 percent this year, the Dallas-based
research firm said.  “While there is much discussion of a housing recovery, we
believe the catastrophic housing downturn the country
experienced has profoundly changed the way potential homebuyers
view housing,” Alexander Goldfarb, an analyst with Sandler
O’Neill & Partners LP in  New York , wrote in an April 16 note. He
has a buy rating on Equity Residential shares.  Equity Residential, founded by  Sam Zell , announced first-
quarter results after the close of regular U.S. trading. Its
shares rose 0.4 percent to $62.69 today in New York. They’ve
gained 7.5 percent in the past 12 months, compared with a 12
percent increase in the  Bloomberg REIT Apartment Index (BBREAPT)  of 16
companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  