-- Ericsson Profit Rises as Handset Disposal Helps Margins
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2012-04-25T16:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/ericsson-reports-first-quarter-profit-that-matches-estimates.html
Ericsson AB’s first-quarter profit
more than doubled on the sale of a stake in its mobile handset
venture while the company increased its profit margins from the
previous period amid cautious spending from European operators.  The net income of 8.95 billion kronor ($1.3 billion)
included 7.7 billion kronor in one-time gains from the sale of
half of  Sony Ericsson  Mobile Communications, the world’s largest
maker of wireless networks said. Gross profit margin, the
percentage of sales left after costs of goods sold, climbed to
33.3 percent from 30.2 percent in the previous period, Ericsson
said, topping the average estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 12
analysts of 31.4 percent.  “The competition is out there but nobody has really gained
anything behind us, basically I see it’s flat behind us,” Chief
Executive Officer  Hans Vestberg  said today in an interview.  As phone-equipment spending slows, Stockholm-based Ericsson
is relying on wireless operators in the U.S., its largest
market, to invest in faster fourth-generation networks as they
seek to add smartphone customers. Revenue fell 4 percent to 51
billion kronor. Vestberg said the pattern with some European
operators “cautious” to spend amid the region’s debt crisis
“hasn’t deteriorated.”  Market Share  Ericsson closed little changed at 63.65 kronor at 5:30 p.m.
in  Stockholm . The stock had lost 10 percent this year through
yesterday, while Alcatel-Lucent SA gained more than 15 percent
so far this year and was up 5.7 percent in Paris.  Ericsson’s mobile infrastructure market share gained to 38
percent in the quarter from 32 percent in 2011 on contracts to
replace aging mobile phone networks, mostly in Europe, and
presence in growth markets, Vestberg said in the interview.  “The underlying result is fine thanks to the gross margin,
which should be reassuring,” said  Alexander Peterc , a London-
based analyst with Exane BNP Paribas. “Networks sales were
light because of the decline in CDMA and macro factors in
regions like southern  Europe ,” he said, referring to the code
division multiple access wireless standard.  Profit adjusted for the sale of Sony Ericsson and the loss
in joint venture ST-Ericsson was 2.47 billion kronor, according
to data compiled by Bloonberg, compared with the average
estimate of 2.04 billion kronor in the Bloomberg survey.  Reduce Funding Need  ST-Ericsson said this week it will cut 1,700 jobs and
transfer applications processor development to
STMicroelectronics to concentrate on integrated mode and
application chips.  “With this new plan we believe we can get profitability
and our loans back,” Vestberg said on a conference call with
analysts. “That’s why we have done this restructuring, and we
are trying to reduce the need for funding by having the focus on
modems and combination modem-applications chips. It will hurt
for some more time.”  Last quarter, Ericsson expanded its stake in a joint
venture with  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  to capture growth in  Korea ,
where it is building 4G networks for all the major carriers.  Modernization contracts in Europe, which produce smaller
margins because of tough competition for them, could depress
margins for several years, the company said today, reiterating
comments it made in November. Its latest mid-term sales target
is 2 percent to 8 percent through 2014, two percentage points
below the previous three-year target.  Financial Impact  “Modernization is important for us with the footprint,”
said Chief Financial Officer Jan Frykhammar. “We took the
decision to improve our position in Europe and we have to live
with the financial impact, which on average will be with us for
18 to 24 months,” he said.  The company doesn’t see any more major modernization
projects coming up in Europe and all the contracts it has won
are now underway, Vestberg said in a Bloomberg Television
interview.  Nokia Siemens Networks, the joint venture of  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and
 Siemens AG (SIE) , last week reported a loss of 147 million euros as
revenue declined 7 percent. The company is cutting units and
staff to focus on mobile broadband and services.  ST-Ericsson, the unprofitable chipmaking joint venture with
STMicroelectronics SA, said April 23 that its first-quarter loss
widened to $312 million from $178 million. Revenue fell 35
percent to $290 million in the period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  