-- Merkel Backs Draghi’s Call for Growth to Combat Debt Crisis
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-04-25T15:24:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/merkel-backs-draghi-s-call-for-growth-to-combat-debt-crisis.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  backed
 European Central Bank  President  Mario Draghi ’s call to focus on
spurring economic growth, as German officials rejected charges
they are fixated on budget austerity to fight the debt crisis.  Europe needs growth “in the way that Mario Draghi, the
president of the European Central Bank, said it today, that is
in the form of structural reforms,” the chancellor told a
conference of her Christian Democratic bloc in Berlin today.  Merkel was responding to a call by Draghi in Brussels for
European leaders to widen their crisis response beyond cutting
debt and deficits, the goal of the German-led fiscal pact signed
by euro-area leaders in March. Draghi entered the fray as
 Francois Hollande , the French presidential election front-
runner, campaigns for treaty changes to promote growth.  “We’ve had a fiscal compact,” Draghi said. “What is most
present in my mind now is to have a growth compact.”  Hollande called the remarks helpful and said  France  won’t
ratify the fiscal pact in its current form if he is elected.
“The main risk at this time is that the European economy
remains in a recession because not enough credit is provided to
companies,” the Socialist candidate told a news conference in
Paris today.  Germany, Europe’s biggest economy and the biggest country
contributor to euro-area bailouts for  Greece ,  Portugal  and
Ireland, is facing calls from across the region to augment its
austerity emphasis as a $1 trillion firewall and unlimited ECB
loans fail to stop the crisis from threatening Spain and  Italy .  ‘Firm and Friendly’  Setting his sights beyond France’s runoff vote on May 6
that polls suggest he will win, Hollande said he’ll be “firm
and friendly” with Merkel. “We’ll have to open the discussion.
There’s no need to create a conflict, even if we’re not here to
hide our divergences.”  The European Union’s head office today asked for a growth-
boosting 6.8 percent budget increase to 138 billion euros ($182
billion) for 2013, challenging contributor countries from
Britain to  Germany  to put up more money at a time of austerity
and recession.  Merkel, who spent months lobbying fellow leaders for the
fiscal pact signed on March 2, said budget rigor isn’t the only
solution to the crisis. “We need growth in the form of
sustainable initiatives, not simply economic stimulus programs
that just increase government debt,” she said in Berlin.  Country-Specific  The growth pact may take the form of an annex to the fiscal
compact in which country-specific recommendations for growth-
boosting measures would be made, a German government official
said on condition of anonymity. Steps to raise competitiveness
along with structural reforms are likely to feature, with a
target date for completion of the Group of 20 leaders’ summit in
 Mexico  on June 18-19, the official said.  “The new European mantra is fiscal discipline and
growth,” Douglas Borthwick, managing director and head of
foreign-exchange trading at Faros Trading LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , said in an e-mail. “I expect an announcement of
Europe-wide infrastructure within the next month.”  Europe  has had “enough” austerity, Hollande said
yesterday in an interview with France’s TF1 television. He said
two days ago that budget austerity across Europe is “bringing
desperation to people” and that he’ll refocus the economy on
growth if he gets elected.  Germany has always regarded reducing debt along with
measures to bolster economic growth as key to winning back
financial-market confidence damaged during the debt crisis,
Deputy Finance Minister Thomas Steffen said separately today.  No ‘Taliban’  “Talking about fiscal discipline does not mean that
Germany is, let’s say, more or less a kind of consolidation
Taliban,” Steffen said at a Euromoney conference in Berlin.
“We do not think it’s all about fiscal consolidation, we very
much believe that the euro zone also needs more growth.”  Steffen and Bundesbank board member Andreas Dombret both
defended Germany’s insistence that overspending European
governments cut their budget deficits.  If governments keep cutting deficits, “negative short-term
effects can’t be ruled out,” said Dombret. Even so,
“consolidation constitutes necessary corrections of an
unsustainable development,” he said.  “The long-term gains not only vastly exceed potential
short-term pain, they also help to alleviate it now by restoring
the lost credibility in the ability to tackle the root causes of
the crisis.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  