-- Merkel’s Cabinet Backs Swiss Tax Accord as Best Deal Possible
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-04-25T08:56:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/merkel-s-cabinet-backs-swiss-tax-accord-as-best-deal-possible.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
government said it gained the best result possible in
renegotiating an accord with Switzerland to curb  tax evasion ,
rebuffing opposition critics who said they will block the deal.  German officials pushed hard to win new concessions from
the Swiss for the agreement, signed on April 5 and approved by
Merkel’s Cabinet today, Deputy Finance Minister Hartmut Koschyk
said. Germany secured advance payments of tax revenue that the
U.K. and  Austria  failed to gain in their respective treaties
with the Swiss, he said in an April 23 interview in Berlin.  “We won’t get a better accord,” said Koschyk, a member of
the Bavarian CSU sister party to Merkel’s  Christian Democrats .
Opposition parties that claim the deal leaves too many loopholes
open for tax dodgers are misguided to think they could win
further concessions, he said. “The opposition-run states need
to ask themselves whether they can forego the  tax revenue  that
will be generated by the agreement,” he said.  The tax accord has become a political football in Germany
as the opposition Social Democrats try to translate their
regional power, won after inflicting blows on Merkel’s CDU at
state elections over the past two years, into a national defeat.  Germans held as much as 210 billion francs ($231 billion)
in Swiss accounts in 2010, according to estimates from last year
from consultants  Booz Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH)  Those
account-holders may withdraw 36 billion  francs  from the country
ahead of new tax evasion rules, said the company.  Upper House Vote  The accord now goes to parliament’s lower house, where
Merkel’s coalition has a majority, and the upper house, where
states are represented and she’s dependent on opposition support
to pass legislation.  Germany ’s Social Democrats and Greens, who
dominate the upper house, have said they’ll block the treaty
because it still supports tax evasion by relying on voluntary
account disclosures and limited Swiss support in tax probes.  Merkel finds it “utterly incomprehensible” that any
German region should consider blocking the tax deal because
states such as North Rhine-Westphalia stand to gain “not
inconsiderable sums” of money as a result of it, deputy
government spokesman Georg Streiter told reporters April 13.  The agreement , amended after the original terms agreed last
year were deemed too lax by the German opposition, aims to set
new upper and lower tax rates of 41 percent and 21 percent for
Germans who anonymously volunteer details of their accounts,
instead of previously proposed rates of 34 percent and 19
percent. German tax officials will be permitted to make a
maximum 1,300 requests for information on bank accounts, up from
999 allowed at present, while “fishing,” or clandestine
methods to gain information, are barred.  Inherited Wealth  The new rules also apply a tax rate of as much as 50
percent on undisclosed inherited wealth that passes between
Germans’ bank accounts in  Switzerland . The countries’ banks will
transfer 2 billion francs in advance revenue payments, Koschyk
said.  Switzerland “went far” in meeting Germany’s demands in
the tax amendment, the country’s banking association said on
April 5. The group approved the changes as the “key elements”
of Switzerland’s banking strategy including anonymity and
appropriate tax rates “remained untouched.”  The group estimates that as much as 10 percent of
Switzerland’s gross domestic product is generated by its finance
industry, which employs 340,000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  