-- Mersch Says ‘Powerful’ ECB Loans Help Banks Clean Balance Sheets
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-04-25T07:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/mersch-says-powerful-ecb-loans-help-banks-clean-balance-sheets.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Yves Mersch said the ECB’s “powerful” three-
year loans will help banks to cleanse their balance sheets.  The ECB’s longer-term refinancing operations have “shown
themselves to be powerful levers on many levels,” Mersch said
in the editorial of the Luxembourg central bank’s Financial
Stability Report published today. The loans are helping banks to
“clean up their balance sheets and begin a controlled
deleveraging,” Mersch wrote. His comments were translated from
French.  The ECB loaned banks more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3
trillion) for three years at its benchmark rate of 1 percent to
head off a credit crunch, encourage lending to companies and
consumers and spur demand for unsecured bank debt. The bond-
market rally sparked by the loans has since faded amid concern
that  Spain  may follow Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  in seeking a
bailout.  Mersch said the “complexity of the transmission channels
of monetary policy, combined with the time needed to transform
central bank money into loans for the real economy” makes
evaluating the impact of the loans on credit supply
“difficult.”  A slowdown in euro-area credit growth “may simply be the
result of the current slowdown in economic growth in  Europe ,”
Mersch said. Loans to the private sector grew 0.7 percent in
February from a year earlier after gaining an annual 1.1 percent
in January, the ECB said March 28.  Economic growth in the euro area will remain “subdued” in
the short-term, even though “the situation seems to have
stabilized since the beginning of 2012,” the Central Bank of
Luxembourg, which Mersch heads, said in the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  