-- Eskenazi Said to Tell Brufau YPF Buyback Pact Off Table
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-04-26T11:41:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/eskenazi-said-to-tell-repsol-he-won-t-enforce-ypf-buyback-pact.html
Sebastian Eskenazi,  YPF SA (YPF) ’s former
CEO, told Repsol  YPF SA (YPFD)  Chairman  Antonio Brufau  in a meeting in
Madrid that he won’t immediately seek to enforce a buyback
option on YPF, two people familiar with the meeting said.  The Eskenazi family is looking at different plans for its
25 percent YPF stake after the Argentine government seized
control April 16, one of the people said, declining to be
identified because the meeting wasn’t public. Eskenazi and
Brufau met in the Spanish capital last week, the people said.  The Eskenazis, which owe at least $2.7 billion to Repsol
and banks including Credit Suisse and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
are waiting to see if Congress approves a bill to nationalize a
 51 percent stake  in YPF before making any decision, the person
said. The bill is being discussed today by Argentina’s Senate.  “We’ve assumed the worst, so anything incrementally
positive is good for  Repsol (REP) ,” said  Jason Gammel , an analyst at
Macquarie Capital Ltd. in  London . “There is transparently value
in the stock but there are still potential risks that could come
to life as this whole political mess plays out.”  Argentina’s Senate a few hours ago approved President
Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s proposal to nationalize YPF,
the country’s biggest energy company, as the government seeks to
increase oil production and reduce imports.  The legislation now goes to the lower house, where
Fernandez’s ruling Victory Front coalition and its allies have a
majority, for a vote next week.  Repsol in 2008 agreed to buy back the Eskenazi family’s
stake in YPF should Madrid-based Repsol lose control of the
company, according to an agreement between the Spanish oil
producer and the Eskenazis’ Petersen Group holding company.  Fernandez Decision  YPF’s American Depositary Receipts dropped 2.5 percent to
$13.31 in  New York  yesterday. Repsol fell 1.5 percent to 14.06
euros in  Madrid  today as of 1:37 p.m. local time, down 20
percent since the takeover was announced on April 16. That’s
made it the worst performer on the 122-member  MSCI World/Energy
Index (MXWO0EN)  this year, down 41 percent.  Kirchner’s decision to expropriate 51 percent of YPF from
Repsol invalidates the agreement because it qualifies as a force
majeure event, an unforeseeable event comparable to a hurricane
which can release a company from contractual obligations, a
Repsol spokesman, who declined to be named under corporate
policy, said last week.  “My question would be, over what time frame that
commitment was valid for?” said Stuart Joyner, an analyst at
Investec Securities Ltd. in London. “I’d be very surprised if
the Eskenazis unequivocally gave up something that has some
insurance value for them at least.”  The government is seeking investors to help YPF develop
shale reserves in the Vaca Muerta block, which holds at least 23
billion barrels of oil, 13 billion of which belong to YPF,
according to a report published by the crude producer in
February. Developing the reserves requires $25 billion a year.  Output Declines  Argentine oil output declined to 35.3 million cubic meters
in 2010 from 45.4 million in 2001, according to the most recent
data published by the  Argentina  Oil and Gas Institute. YPF
produces about 34 percent of the country’s crude.  YPF executives, including Eskenazi and the head of
exploration and production, Tomas Garcia Blanco, were told to
leave YPF’s headquarters in  Buenos Aires  on April 16, the day
that Argentina announced Planning Minister Julio de Vido would
run the company on an interim basis.  The European Union will do “everything in our power” to
support Spain in the dispute with Argentina, which nationalized
only the Spanish majority shareholder and not local
stockholders, EU Trade Commissioner Karel De Gucht said April
24.  Fernandez, in a speech in Buenos Aires province on April
24, said she was never more nervous than before her April 16
speech announcing the takeover. Argentina needs energy
independence, she said.  Repsol Investments  Since taking over YPF’s management, De Vido and Deputy
Economy Minister Axel Kicillof have met with officials from
 Chevron Corp. (CVX) , Exxon Mobil Corp and  ConocoPhillips (COP)  to discuss
possible investments in Argentina.  The government today denied claims by Repsol that the
Madrid-based company invested $20 billion in YPF between 1999
and 2011. Repsol invested $3.7 billion in the period, the
government said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sills in Madrid  at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  