-- Hess to Spend $46 Million to Settle Refinery Pollution Case
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-04-25T15:55:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/hess-to-pay-850-000-in-penalties-for-clean-air-violations.html
Hess Corp. (HES)  agreed to spend $45
million on pollution controls at its petroleum refinery in Port
Reading,  New Jersey , and pay $850,000 in penalties to resolve a
government lawsuit over harmful emissions.  A consent decree, entered today in federal court in Newark,
New Jersey, settled a lawsuit filed last week by the U.S. and
state governments. Under the agreement, emissions of nitrogen
oxides will decline by 181 tons a year and volatile organic
compounds also will decrease. Both contribute to smog and
asthma.  “This agreement will improve  air quality  for New Jersey
residents by requiring Hess to install advanced pollution
control and monitoring technology and adopt more stringent
emission limits,” Ignacia Moreno, the head of the  Justice
Department ’s Environment and Natural Resources division, said in
a statement.  Since 2000, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has
reached 31 settlements to reduce air pollution from refineries,
according to the statement. Those accords cover 108 refineries
and more than 90 percent of the refining capacity in the U.S.  Under the accord, New York-based Hess must install new and
upgraded pollution controls and adopt more aggressive
monitoring, leak-detection and repair practices to reduce
emissions from refinery equipment and processing units.  Judge’s Approval Needed  The complaint alleges that Hess modified the refinery,
which has a processing capacity of 70,000 barrels a day, without
first getting pre-construction permits and installing pollution
control equipment. Hess didn’t admit liability in the decree,
which requires approval of a judge after a comment period.  John B. Hess, the oil company’s chairman and chief
executive officer, told investors in a Jan. 25 conference call
that  Port Reading  lost $6 million in the fourth quarter of 2011
and broke even in the third quarter.  “We’ll run it so long as it generates acceptable
returns,” Hess said on the call to discuss fourth-quarter
financial  results .  Hovensa, a refinery jointly owned by Hess and  Petroleos de
Venezuela SA , closed in February. Hovensa had lost $1.3 billion
over three years, the company said.  Hess fell 6.8 percent to $51.30 at 11:41 a.m. in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading, the most in seven months,
after lowering its oil-production estimate for the Bakken Shale
formation.  The lawsuit, brought by New Jersey Attorney General Jeffrey S. Chiesa as well as the U.S., had sought civil penalties of as
much as $37,500 a day for the various violations. New Jersey
will get half of the penalties, or $425,000.  The case is U.S. v. Hess Corp., 12-cv-2335, U.S. District
Court, District of New Jersey ( Newark ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
 Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 