-- USDA Says Mad Cow Test Drop Is No Meat-Supply Threat
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r   a n d   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-04-26T14:36:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/testing-for-mad-cow-disease-falls-90-since-2005-usda-says.html
The number of cattle tested for mad
cow disease has fallen almost 90 percent since 2005, according
to U.S. Agriculture Department statistics, a drop that consumer
groups say endangers America’s  food supply .  U.S. Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack yesterday said that
animal testing is adequate, a day after his department confirmed
the nation’s first known case of mad cow disease in six years, a
dead dairy animal on its way to a rendering plant in central
California.  About 40,000 cattle were tested in the year ended Sept. 30,
down from 399,575 in 2005, according to USDA data. The drop-off
followed a surge in testing conducted to establish the
prevalence of the disease as the agency was trying to understand
the risk and create a long-term monitoring system, John Clifford, the USDA’s chief veterinarian, said in an interview.  He said testing is only one component of the agency’s
strategy to combat mad cow disease, which includes limiting the
consumption of certain parts of cattle and restricting the
content of their feed. Chris Waldrop, director of the Food
Policy Institute of the  Consumer Federation of America , a
Washington-based safety advocacy group, said the testing decline
means the U.S. is relying too much on other safeguards, which
aren’t foolproof.  Need for Firewalls  “If you’re not going to test as much, your firewalls
better be perfect, and there are loopholes in the firewalls,”
Waldrop said. “After going so long without having a case in the
U.S., and now we have one, it warrants another look at the
surveillance program and ramping it up, at least temporarily, to
see if there is something new going on.”  USDA investigations typically include tests of animals that
were in the same herd as the diseased cow, as well as feed the
animal may have consumed, Clifford said. Even when an animal
tests positive for a form of BSE not connected to feed, as in
this case, the investigative procedures are the same, he said.
Any offsrping of the infected animal are also checked.  The USDA has not yet publicly identified the farm where the
animal came from, or if the cow had any calves. Clifford would
not comment on the current investigation.  Monthly Fluctuation  The new case won’t spur more tests, as one case of the
disease, known as bovine spongiform encephalopathy, in six years
doesn’t necessarily indicate increased BSE prevalence, Clifford
said.  The 2004 surge in testing was “an effort to collect as
many samples as we could over 12 to 18 months to determine
prevalence in the U.S.,” Clifford said. “After that, we went
to a regular surveillance level that far exceeds international
standards.”  The surveillance tests focus on older cattle and animals
that may be exhibiting symptoms of the brain-wasting disease, he
said.  About 40,000 animals are sampled each year, less than 0.1
percent of the U.S. cattle herd, according to USDA records.  Testing has fluctuated in recent months, from 2,434 samples
in April 2012, down from 4,855 in March and 5,417 in February,
according to the USDA.  Analysis of the 2004 to 2006 data concluded the prevalence
of BSE in the U.S. is less than 1 case per million adult cattle,
according to the agency. As of Jan. 1, the country’s  herd of
cattle and calves totaled  90.8 million animals , according to the
USDA.  More testing isn’t necessary now that the USDA has a handle
on the extent of the disease, said Eric Mittenthal, a spokesman
with the American Meat Institute, a trade group based in
 Washington  that includes  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)  and Cargill Inc. among
its members.  “Some critics have argued that every animal needs to be
tested,” Mittenthal said in an e-mail. “That’s like saying
that kindergarteners should be tested for Alzheimer’s,” he
said. “USDA appropriately focuses its surveillance on older
animals and animals that are displaying clinical signs of the
disease,” he said.  Random Tests  Still, random tests aren’t enough to ensure that diseased
cows don’t taint the food supply, Michael Hansen, a staff
scientist at the nonprofit  Consumers Union  of Yonkers,  New York ,
said yesterday.  U.S. testing “is very consistent with international
standards and we want to make sure we abide by those
international standards,” the USDA’s Vilsack said.  Jim Cullor, a professor of infectious disease in the School
of Veterinary Medicine at the  University of California  at Davis,
said the discovery of the latest case shows the U.S.
surveillance system is effective.  In addition to the monitoring tests, the USDA protects the
food supply by prohibiting parts from other cows and related
animals to be used in cattle feed. Scientists say the disease is
spread by cattle eating rations that contain tissue from
infected animals. Since the first case in 2003, the agency has
also required slaughterhouses to remove and dispose of certain
“risk materials,” such as spinal cord and nerve tissue, to
keep it from human consumption.  No Food Threat  Officials said the infected animal found recently at a
Baker Commodities Inc. facility in Hanford,  California , never
entered the human food chain, and that the disease isn’t spread
through milk. Tests indicate the animal had atypical BSE, a form
not normally associated with infected feed.  A nationwide animal identification program that can track
animals to their source is also necessary to ensure that threats
are quickly handled, U.S. Representative  Rosa DeLauro , a
Connecticut Democrat, said in a statement.  “We were lucky to identify this case,” DeLauro said,
“but we must invest in a strong national identification system
that has the potential to improve animal traceability and ensure
the health of our domestic livestock.”  Vilsack yesterday said a new rule on animal identification
should be released “very, very soon.”  Identification System  A nationwide animal identification system that would let
officials track sick livestock back to their farms of origin --
and help identify other infected animals -- has been promised by
the Department of Agriculture since 2003, after the first U.S.
BSE case surfaced, in a cow born in  Canada .  A voluntary animal ID plan  was abandoned in 2010 after some
ranchers refused to participate, citing cost and concerns that
the proposed registry would give competitors proprietary
information.  The rule Vilsack referred to, which the USDA proposed in
August, would require registration and tagging of livestock
moved between states, with guidelines tailored to different
species. It would be put in place gradually, applying first to
older animals in the U.S. cattle herd.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  