-- Europe Seen Adding Growth to Budget Rules as Focus Shifts
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-04-26T15:03:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/europe-shifts-crisis-focus-to-growth-as-merkel-backs-draghi-call.html
Europe  may add an annex to its
budget treaty spelling out how countries can boost growth as the
bloc shifts its emphasis on tackling the debt crisis, a German
government official said.  Steps to raise competitiveness along with structural
reforms are likely to feature in the prescriptions for growth,
with a target date for completion by the June 18-19 Group of 20
leaders’ summit in  Mexico , the official said on condition of
anonymity because the discussions are private and not complete.  The change in tack was signaled yesterday by  European
Central Bank  President Mario Draghi, whose call for a “growth
compact” was quickly endorsed by German Chancellor  Angela Merkel .  Francois Hollande , the French Socialist presidential
election front-runner, welcomed Draghi’s remarks as evidence of
the need for treaty changes to boost growth, while questioning
the means of getting there.  “It’s not the same idea of growth,” Hollande said in an
interview on France Info radio today. Draghi is “adding even
stronger competition, liberalization and privatization.”  That contrasted with Merkel’s reaction. Europe needs growth
“in the way that  Mario Draghi , the president of the European
Central Bank, said it today, that is in the form of structural
reforms,” the chancellor told a conference of her Christian
Democratic bloc in Berlin yesterday.  Competitiveness Pact  “The ever politically adept Merkel recognizes the push
toward a growth pact but will not allow Germany to be out-
maneuvered,”  Marc Chandler , chief currency strategist at Brown
Brothers Harriman & Co. in  New York , said in a note to
investors. “While the growth pact may be on the agenda, she
will aim to drive its shape.”  Euro leaders have struggled to find a common way to promote
economic growth even as they have demanded budget cuts to
satisfy German priorities and settle markets. At a March 2011
summit, they endorsed Merkel’s so-called competitiveness pact
that set targets on issues including cutting labor costs and
raising the  retirement age .  Draghi used a speech in Brussels yesterday to urge European
leaders to widen their crisis response beyond cutting debt and
deficits, the goal of the German-led fiscal pact signed by euro-
area leaders in March.  ‘Too Much Smoke’  “We’ve had a fiscal compact,” Draghi said. “What is most
present in my mind now is to have a growth compact.”  That may mean an announcement on European Investment Bank
financing of region-wide infrastructure projects within a month,
said Douglas Borthwick, managing director and head of foreign-
exchange trading at Faros Trading LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  “There is absolutely too much smoke here for there to be
no fire,” Borthwick said in an e-mail. “The new European
mantra is fiscal discipline and growth.”  Germany , Europe’s biggest economy and the largest
contributor to bailouts for  Greece , Portugal and Ireland, is
facing demands from across the region to ease its emphasis on
austerity as a $1 trillion firewall and unlimited ECB loans fail
to stop the crisis from threatening Spain and Italy.  ‘Main Risk’  Draghi’s comment “illustrates the depth of concern felt by
the ECB about the weak outlook for the euro area economy,” said
 Julian Callow , chief European economist at  Barclays Capital  in
 London . “It perhaps could be a closet call for Germany to
provide greater fiscal stimulus given its low  budget deficit .”  Hollande called the remarks helpful and said France won’t
ratify the fiscal pact in its current form if he is elected.  “The main risk at this time is that the European economy
remains in a recession because not enough credit is provided to
companies,” he told a news conference in Paris. For all the
differences on how to spur growth, “he does say that we cannot
just keep on with austerity, with sanctions, and he wants to add
a growth pact to the budget pact. I have never stopped asking
for that.”  The growth pact may take the form of an annex to the fiscal
compact in which country-specific recommendations for growth-
boosting measures would be made, the German official said. This
does not include the option of deficit-financed growth packages,
the official said, adding that the French government may see
that differently after the election.  Draghi Remarks  “I see how, for example, the Socialists in  France  react to
that, with triumphant cheers, because they interpret growth as
debt-financed stimulus programs,” Christian Democrat budget
spokesman Norbert Barthle said today in a speech in the lower
house of parliament in Berlin, referring to Draghi’s remarks.
“We understand that to mean a strengthening of competitiveness
and that’s a fundamental difference.”  Setting his sights beyond France’s runoff vote on May 6
that polls suggest he will win, Hollande said yesterday that
he’ll be “firm and friendly” with Merkel. “We’ll have to open
the discussion. There’s no need to create a conflict, even if
we’re not here to hide our divergences.”  The European Union’s head office asked yesterday for a
growth-boosting 6.8 percent budget increase to 138 billion euros
($182 billion) for 2013, challenging contributor countries from
Britain to Germany to put up more money at a time of austerity
and recession.  Merkel, who spent months lobbying fellow leaders for the
fiscal pact signed on March 2, said budget rigor isn’t the only
solution to the crisis. “We need growth in the form of
sustainable initiatives, not simply economic stimulus programs
that just increase government debt,” she said in Berlin.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Washington at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  