-- Ex-Morgan Stanley Executive Pleads Guilty in Conspiracy
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2012-04-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/ex-morgan-stanley-executive-pleads-guilty-in-conspiracy.html
Garth R. Peterson, a former  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  executive, pleaded guilty to conspiracy for his role in
the transfer of a multimillion dollar ownership interest in a
Shanghai building to himself and a Chinese public official.  Peterson, 42, who was a managing director in Morgan
Stanley’s real estate investment business, pleaded guilty
yesterday in federal court in Brooklyn, New York, to conspiring
to evade accounting controls, the Justice Department said in an
e-mailed statement.  “I decided from the beginning that that I would mislead
Morgan Stanley about who would be investing as a Chinese
partner,” Peterson told U.S. District Judge  Jack B. Weinstein .
“I know what I did was wrong and I apologize for my actions.”  Peterson “lied and cheated his way to millions in personal
profit,” Assistant U.S. Attorney General Lanny A. Breuer, head
of the  Justice Department ’s criminal division, said in the
statement. “Because of his corrupt conduct, he now faces the
prospect of prison time.”  Peterson is scheduled to be sentenced July 17. He faces as
long as five years in prison and a maximum fine of $250,000,
prosecutors said.  Morgan Stanley is required, under the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act, to maintain the internal accounting controls
Peterson violated, according to the Justice Department. The
controls ensure accountability for the bank’s assets and prevent
employees from paying or promising anything of value to foreign
government officials, the Justice Department said.  Received Training  From 2002 to 2008, Peterson received training on the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act from Morgan Stanley seven times,
and he was reminded about his duty to comply with it at least 35
times, the Justice Department said.  Peterson told Morgan Stanley that the bank’s interest a
Shanghai real estate deal was being sold to a state-controlled
entity, though it was actually sold to a shell company
controlled by Peterson, a Chinese official and a Canadian
lawyer, according to the Justice Department.  Morgan Stanley sold the real estate at a discount, allowing
the conspirators to realize an immediate profit of more than
$2.5 million, according to the statement. Peterson and his co-
conspirators collected equity distributions from the deal as the
real-estate appreciated in value, the Justice Department said.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission also accused
Peterson of violating the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and
securities laws in a lawsuit filed yesterday in federal court in
 New York , according to a separate statement from that agency.  Finder’s Fees  Peterson arranged to have at least $1.8 million paid to
himself and the Chinese official that he disguised as finder’s
fees, the SEC said in its statement. Peterson, who led Morgan
Stanley’s effort to build a Chinese real estate portfolio, also
agreed as part of a settlement with the SEC to be permanently
barred from the securities industry and relinquish his interest
in the Shanghai real estate investment, currently valued at
about $3.4 million, the SEC said.  A May 2 settlement hearing is scheduled for the SEC case.  “We cooperated fully with the government, and we are very
satisfied with this outcome,” Mark Lake, a spokesman for the
New York-based Morgan Stanley, said in a statement. “Mr.
Peterson’s intentional circumvention of Morgan Stanley’s
internal controls was a deliberate and egregious violation of
our values and policies.”  Frank Wohl, Peterson’s lawyer, declined to comment after
the hearing on the guilty plea.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Peterson, 12-cr-00224, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York ( Brooklyn ). The
civil case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Peterson,
12-cv-02033, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
(Brooklyn).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Thom Weidlich in New York at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  