-- Mexico’s IPO Drought Ends as Alpek Seeks $851 Million
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2012-04-25T12:17:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/mexico-s-ipo-drought-ends-as-alpek-seeks-record-851-million-1-.html
Alpek SAB (ALPEK) , Mexico’s largest
privately owned petrochemical company, is planning the nation’s
biggest ever initial public offering, ending a nine-month lull
in new listings.  Alfa SAB (ALFAA) , the conglomerate that also owns auto-parts and
processed-foods companies, is selling a stake in Alpek after
Mexico’s  benchmark  index rallied to a record high this month and
 Brazil  and  Colombia  snapped IPO droughts. Alfa plans to raise as
much as 11.2 billion pesos ($851 million) from the sale of 17.9
percent of Alpek, which makes polyester fiber used in clothing
and expandable polystyrene for packing material.  “The IPO market is starting to show some signs of life,”
said  Ed Kuczma , who helps manage $34 billion including Mexican
shares at Van Eck Associates in  New York , speaking in a
telephone interview. “Mexico’s been slow to have deals come
out, and it’s good to see deals pop up and give investors a
chance to participate.”  While Alpek’s deal is poised to overtake OHL Mexico SAB’s
9.7 billion peso offering in 2010 as the country’s largest, the
sale is dwarfed by Brazil’s biggest IPOs, including a 3.66
billion reais ($1.95 billion) transaction yesterday by Banco BTG
Pactual SA. Banco Santander SA, the Spanish bank whose Mexican
subsidiary is weighing a Mexican listing, raised a country
record 13.2 billion reais in Brazil in October 2009 by selling
its local unit.  First Since July  Alpek’s sale will be the first in Mexico since July, when
lender  Banregio Grupo Financiero SAB (GFREGIO)  raised 1.8 billion pesos,
as  Europe ’s deepening debt crisis curbed demand for emerging-
market assets. Nine companies had outstanding exchange filings
to hold IPOs in  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy, Javier Artigas, head of strategic planning at the exchange, told
reporters on Jan. 10.  Alfa, which plans on keeping a controlling stake in Alpek,
will price the shares between 27.50 and 31.50 pesos, according
to prospectus filed with the local exchange.  Banregio has surged 16 percent since its IPO, while OHL has
retreated 22 percent.  Microfinance business Credito Real SA and bus company Grupo
Senda Autotransporte SA are among companies that have said
they’re considering listing shares in Mexico.  Brazil’s first initial public offering since July, Sao
Paulo-based car-rental company Cia. de Locacao das Americas,
priced shares 36 percent below the upper end of its target.
Unicasa Industria de Moveis SA, a furniture maker in Brazil,
will announce the results of its IPO tonight. Colombian
construction company Construcciones  El Condor (ELCONDOR)  raised 162.6
billion pesos ($91 million) in an initial sale this month.  Slim’s Frisco  The Alpek sale -- known as a carve out because Alfa will
keep control -- would resemble an offering carried out in
January 2011 by billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s holding company, Grupo
Carso SAB. After that deal, Slim’s mining unit, Minera Frisco
SAB, soared 26 percent in its first day of trading. It’s up 93
percent since the IPO, beating the 0.4 percent gain in the IPC.  “Alfa is seeking to maximize  shareholder value ,” said
Ramon Leal, Alfa’s chief financial officer, in an April 11
telephone interview from  London . The public offer gives Alpek
“the opportunity to have more independence to pursue the
projects that have been presenting themselves.”  Enrique Flores Rodriguez, head of Alfa’s corporate
communication, declined to comment further.  Carve outs can help pull in new buyers because investors
sometimes shy away from hard-to-value conglomerates, according
to Josef Schuster, founder of Chicago-based Ipox Schuster LLC,
which has about $2 billion tied to indexes that track IPOs.  Polyester Sales  Alpek, based in San Pedro Garza Garcia,  Mexico , has 20
plants in three countries and had sales of $7.3 billion last
year, about half of Alfa’s $14.7 billion total. First-quarter
revenue rose 13 percent to $1.1 billion amid higher polyester
sales in  North America , the company said in a filing with the
Mexican stock exchange.  “It’s a stable old company, and from a diversification
perspective it makes good sense,” said Schuster, who said he’s
considering participating in the sale. Carve-outs in other
markets “have been very successful.”  Alfa fell 0.9 percent to 187.74 pesos in Mexico City
trading yesterday. It’s up 24 percent this year, compared with a
4.8 percent advance for the benchmark gauge, which rose April 2
to a record high 39,963.64. The benchmark needs to climb another
2.9 percent to surpass its historic high.  Citigroup Inc., HSBC Holdings Plc, Credit Suisse Group AG
and Morgan Stanley are managing the Alpek share sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan Case in Dallas at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  