-- Mexico Oil Opening First Time Since 1938 Shows Revival: Energy
-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z   a n d   A d r i a n a   L o p e z   C a r a v e o
-- 2012-04-26T14:32:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/mexico-oil-opening-first-time-since-1938-shows-revival-energy.html
For the first time in 74 years,
Mexico may allow private investment in its oil and gas, the
third-largest reserves in  Latin America .  Enrique Pena Nieto, the leader in all major polls to win the
July 1 presidential election and a member of the party that
nationalized the industry in 1938, said April 12 that Mexico’s
oil production “can outperform and grow” through private
investment. The same day, his closest rival, Josefina Vazquez Mota, proposed to list “a minority stake” in state oil
monopoly  Petroleos Mexicanos , which has $126 billion in revenue.  Selling shares in the largest oil supplier to the U.S. will
open a Mexican industry experiencing an eighth year of declining
output, hurt by faltering investment and lack of technology and
experience for the deepest offshore wells. The cash can fund
Gulf of  Mexico  and shale gas production using techniques  Brazil 
and the U.S. employed to revolutionize their energy markets.  “The taboo has been broken” on private investment, Pemex
board member Hector Moreira said in an interview. “People
talking about private stakes -- it’s a first step. And it’s a
step that’s not prompting a negative reaction from the public.”  From school murals to speeches in Congress, state-run Pemex
has been promoted as a symbol of sovereignty and national pride.
That image is waning as fuel imports and prices increase, crude
production goals go unmet and Pemex strikes out with drilling.  While the company more than quadrupled investments during
the past decade to about $23 billion a year and expanded
exploration, none of its 18 deepwater exploration projects in
the  Gulf of Mexico  has discovered commercially viable crude.
Without enough investment Mexico may become an oil importer by
2020, according to a  study  by  Rice University  in Houston.  Schlumberger, Petrofac  An oil reform in 2008 opened exploration and production
projects to private and foreign companies for the first time
since the expropriation without giving ownership or rights over
the crude reserves. Last year, Pemex awarded two blocks to
Petrofac Ltd. and one to  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB)  to produce crude from
aging fields. The state monopoly is now offering six more
developments, including offshore fields, to private developers.  The performance-based contracts may not attract enough
private investment to reverse output declines, said Antonio Szabo, chief executive officer of Houston-based research company
Stone Bond Technologies and a former head of supply for state-
owned Petroleos de  Venezuela .  “These incentives are not as attractive as joint
ventures,” Szabo said in an interview.  27 IPOs  A potential public offer of Pemex shares may attract new
investors and issuers to Mexico’s stock exchange. In the past 10
years Mexico had 27 IPOs, compared with 134 in Brazil.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA first sold shares to the public in
December 1957 on the Rio de Janeiro stock exchange, which no
longer exists, and has soared more than sixfold in the past
decade. The company raised as much as $70 billion in 2010 to
help finance its $224 billion investment plan, intended to tap
the largest oil finds in the Americas in three decades.  Pemex output slumped to 2.55 million barrels a day on
average, compared with as much as 3.38 million barrels a day at
its peak in 2004. The country has the third-biggest proven oil
reserves in Latin America after Venezuela and Brazil, with 13.81
billion barrels, and shale-gas resources that may be as high as
460 trillion cubic feet, the company has said.  Pena wrote in an opinion column published March 18, the
expropriation anniversary day, that today’s reality is different
to the one seven decades ago, and that the country lacks the
required capital and technology.  Insufficient Budget  Energy Minister Jordy Herrera said last month that the
company’s budget to tackle all the challenges is “notoriously
insufficient.” Pemex needs to change the law to get more funds
and create a “model similar to  Petrobras (PBR)  or whatever we
decide,” he said, referring to the state-backed oil company in
Brazil.  While Pemex wanted to invest more than $30 billion this
year, the federal government cut its plans to about $23 billion,
and even those funds are not available at the speed or with the
flexibility that the company requires. Pemex paid almost  60
percent  of its revenue in taxes, cash used to finance a third of
the nation’s public budget.  Moreira said that any plan to make Pemex perform more like
a corporation than a government agency will require tax law
changes first.  A March 30 poll, by research firm Gabinete de Comunicacion
Estrategica, or GCA, showed that 47 percent of those surveyed
support a sale of a stake in Pemex on the stock exchange, while
36 percent oppose the option.  ‘Explicit Discussion’  “This is the first time the topic is discussed in a
presidential campaign, at least in such as explicit way,” said
 Jorge Chabat , a political science professor at the Center for
 Economic Research  and Teaching known as CIDE, in Mexico City. If
the new president arrives with a mandate, it should be enough to
mitigate any opposition in Congress, he said.  Herrera, the energy minister, said that lawmakers may
proceed with tax changes for Pemex even before the new president
starts Dec. 1.  The weight of Pemex’s problems may be proving heavier than
the nationalistic sentiment against any privatization, Chabat
said.  Pena Nieto, from the  Institutional Revolutionary Party , or
PRI, is preferred over Vazquez Mota, the candidate from the
ruling  National Action Party  by about 15 percentage points --
36.7 percent to 21.7 percent -- a nationwide survey by Grupo
Economistas Asociados-ISA shows.  ‘Terrible Paradox’  “It’s a terrible paradox, that despite the large size of
the energy sector in Mexico there is not a single energy company
listed at the Bolsa,” Jesus Reyes Heroles, a former chief
executive officer of Pemex, said last month in an interview.  Pena met this year with the head of the country’s exchange,
 Luis Tellez , said two people familiar with the meeting who asked
not to be identified because they were not authorized to discuss
it. The topic of a Pemex listing was addressed, one of the
people said.  Assuming Pemex pension liabilities are not transferred to
the Federal government as some company executives propose, the
equity value of the firm may be about $47.8 billion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. If the government takes up some
of the pension liabilities and subsidies currently funded by
Pemex, the value may be higher.  Pemex’s challenges are accumulating by the day. The
country’s output is falling to a 12-year low, its previous
quarterly loss was the biggest since 2008.  Changing the law to allow the sale of any stake in a crude-
production project or Pemex will require a constitutional
change. Such amendments must be approved by two-thirds of
Congress, by 16 of the 32 Mexican state legislatures and
subsequently signed by the president.  ‘Signature Issue’  Changing the rules to open Pemex to more private investment
“would be my signature issue,” Pena said in a Nov. 16
interview. “We can do what Brazil did for its  oil company , not
at the beginning but later, if we open shares to the public,”
he said.  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador , the presidential candidate of
the Party of the Democratic Revolution who narrowly lost the
2006 presidential election, opposes most privatizations in the
oil industry. He said that the proposals from his opponents
“will deteriorate the sector in every sense.”  Pemex Trading  Credit-default swap contracts for Pemex traded at 158 basis
points yesterday, or 23 below those for Brazil’s state-
controlled crude producer, according to data provider CMA. The
gap is the biggest since March 21.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meets its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  President  Felipe Calderon ’s attempts to open more of the
energy business to private investments, such us breaking Pemex’s
monopoly in refining and pipeline distribution, have been
diluted by opposition led by PRI lawmakers.  A comment last year from Calderon that selling shares of
Pemex “could be an alternative” in an upcoming energy bill
prompted demands from Pena Nieto’s party members for a special
hearing with the energy minister to explain the president’s
statement. A new energy bill has so far not been filed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos M. Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net ;
Adriana Lopez Caraveo in Mexico City at 
 adrianalopez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 