-- Mexico Facing Cost of Bribe Ethos That Snared Wal-Mart
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-04-25T15:17:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/mexico-seen-losing-capital-over-bribe-ethos-that-snared-wal-mart.html
Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)  was searching for
a way to speed up Mexican approval to export chickens raised in
that country in the mid-2000s. Company employees, Tyson later
acknowledged to U.S. authorities, achieved this by paying off
local officials.  The decision ended in Tyson, the largest U.S. meat
processor, paying regulators $5.2 million last year.  Siemens AG (SIE) ,
 Europe ’s largest engineering company, made a more expensive
mistake, paying $1.6 billion in fines and criminal and civil
penalties in 2008 for violating the U.S. Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act in markets including Mexico.  Corruption is one of the biggest obstacles to foreign
investment in Mexico, watchdogs and local attorneys say, and it
has now ensnared  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s largest
retailer. The New York Times reported April 21 the company’s
Mexican unit paid more than $24 million in bribes to open stores
more quickly. The company says it’s aiding U.S. probes into the
matter.  “This type of activity is common practice in  Mexico ,”
said Luis Alberto Perez, a partner at the Mexico City law firm
Camelo y Perez Abogados, referring to corruption. “The reality
is, if your competition is partaking of these practices and you
don’t, it’s going to be difficult for you to grow and expand
quickly.”  He says he still advises his clients not to pay bribes
because it’s against the law and unethical.  Mexico, the world’s 13th largest economy, is perceived as
less honest than 99 other nations, including communist  China  and
Cuba, in dealing with companies, according to Berlin-based
Transparency International.  Wal-Mart Case  The culture of bribery and kickbacks that pervades Mexico
hinders government efforts to attract foreign investment and
boost growth that has averaged 2.2 percent over the past decade,
less than other major  emerging markets  such as Brazil and China.
It also presents a quandary for companies seeking to expand in
the country.  Wal-Mart, which owns 69 percent of its Mexican unit, said
April 21 it is looking into the allegations that it paid bribes
in the early 2000s to expedite permits for new stores in Mexico.
The company is taking steps to ensure it remains in compliance
with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and is strengthening
controls and training in Mexico to achieve this, according to a
statement yesterday.  ‘Any Pretext’  The government’s failure to tackle graft pushed Mexico to
100 out of 183 countries in a corruption index compiled by
Transparency International, down from 72 in 2008.  Arturo Pueblita, a Mexico City lawyer whose clients include
international pharmacies and local retailers, said corruption is
“an everyday occurrence.” His firm, Cuevas y Pueblita
Abogados, hands out manuals to clients on how to react to public
officials and conducts “preventive audits” to ensure
authorities cannot find an excuse to pressure their clients for
payments, he said.  “Authorities find any pretext to close a company or
threaten to do so, unless they get what they want, which is a
bribe,” he said.  As a result, companies pay about 10 percent of their
earnings to corrupt officials, according to a study released
last week by the Business Coordinating Council’s Private Sector
Economic Studies Center. The total economic cost is 10 percent
of Mexico’s $1 trillion gross domestic product, the study said.  ‘Gestores’  “Corruption and the backlog in establishing and
administering an adequate legal framework are considered the
most problematic factors of doing business in Mexico,” Gerardo
Gutierrez Candiani, president of the Mexican lobbying group,
said in a statement accompanying the study on April 16.  The long waits to process paperwork and administrative
proceedings have created an industry of “gestores,” or legal
fixers who navigate people and businesses through the
bureaucracy, and in some cases, grease palms to speed up the
process, Pueblita said.  The  Economy Ministry  said in a statement April 23 that
there’s no evidence Mexican federal officials were involved in
alleged bribes paid by Wal-Mart employees. Corruption described
in the  New York  Times story dealt with  land use  and construction
permits, which fall under local and not federal jurisdiction,
the ministry said, adding that it would collaborate with any
U.S. investigation.  The ministry declined to comment further on what the
government has done to reduce corrupt practices. A request for
comment from Mexico City authorities went unanswered.  ‘Cozy Relationships’  “This is a serious problem in Mexico,” said Claudio Loser, a former International Monetary Fund official. “The
country is characterized by very strong domestic interests, very
cozy relationships between government and local big
enterprises.”  Mexican prosecutors said March 14 they are investigating
Bizjet International Sales and Support Inc. after the company
agreed to pay an $11.8 million criminal penalty to U.S.
authorities to resolve charges related to the U.S. Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act.  Bizjet, based in Tulsa,  Oklahoma , allegedly paid $2 million
between 2004 and 2009 to obtain maintenance, repair and general
inspection contracts worth about $24 million for federal and
state helicopters, according to a statement last month from
Mexico’s Attorney General’s Office.  Two phone calls and an e-mail to Jay Holtmeier, a Bizjet
attorney in New York, weren’t immediately returned yesterday.  Settlements involving the corrupt practices act are
typically 1 percent to 2 percent of sales, and that would
probably be $4.5 billion or more in the case of Wal-Mart, Robert
Carroll, an analyst at UBS AG in New York, said in an April 23
report.  Largest Settlement  FCPA investigations take two to six years to resolve and
the largest such settlement ever was Siemens’s 2008 payment,
Carroll said. Among other accusations, from the mid-1990’s until
2007, units of the Munich-based company paid bribes to obtain
contracts to work on refineries in Mexico, the SEC  said .
Alexander Becker, a Siemens spokesman, declined to comment.  Tyson Foods, based in Springdale,  Arkansas , paid government
veterinarians in charge of inspecting chicken plants to keep the
officials from disrupting operations, according to the U.S.
Justice Department.  Tyson spokesmen Worth Sparkman and Gary Mickelson referred
to a 2011 statement following the settlement and said the
company had no additional comment. Tyson said at the time it
voluntarily disclosed the illegal payments to U.S. authorities
and the bribes started before it acquired a stake in the company
that became Tyson de Mexico.  Under their settlements, neither Siemens nor Tyson admitted
or denied SEC allegations.  ‘Stagnate’  “On an economic level, this causes investment to
stagnate,” said Alejandro Salas,  Transparency International ’s
regional Americas director.  Mexico received $19.4 billion of foreign direct investment
in 2011, according to preliminary figures from the Economy
Ministry. It received $20.2 billion in 2010. Brazil, the
region’s largest economy, received $66.7 billion in 2011,
according to data from the South American nation’s central bank.  Eduardo Bohorquez, head of Transparency International’s
Mexico organization, said enforcing a 2002 federal transparency
law, which was also approved at the state level, has been
difficult.  “This is a shared responsibility,” Bohorquez said.
“Governments of course have to lead anti-corruption efforts.
The private sector also has a crucial role in leading important
changes in self-regulation and promotion of anti-corruption
policies.”  Extortion  Mexico’s IPC stock index has  advanced  4.7 percent this
year, compared with a  gain  of 10.2 percent by the  Standard &
Poor’s  500 index and a 9 percent rise by  Brazil ’s Bovespa  index 
over the same period. Yields on Mexican corporate dollar bonds
have  declined  32 basis points, or 0.32 percentage point,
according to information compiled by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “There’s an image of corruption where people think that in
Mexico we solve everything that way,” Pueblita said. “It’s a
problem for investment in Mexico.” In many cases international
clients “end up feeling like they’ve been extorted.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Crayton Harrison at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 