-- Express Scripts Judge Denies Bid to Freeze Takeover of Medco
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-04-25T18:56:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/express-scripts-judge-denies-bid-to-freeze-takeover-of-medco-1-.html
Express Scripts Holding Co. (ESRX) 
defeated a bid by retail drugstores to suspend its $29.1 billion
purchase of Medco Health Solutions Inc. while a lawsuit
challenging the takeover is pending.  U.S. District Judge Cathy Bissoon in Pittsburgh today said
she will rule on the company’s request to dismiss the case
before considering the bid for a permanent injunction sought by
retail pharmacy groups. Bissoon didn’t say when she’d make
either ruling. The groups didn’t present enough evidence to
warrant freezing the deal, the judge said.  “Because plaintiffs have not met their burden to establish
the likelihood of immediate, irreparable harm that could be
alleviated by the issuance of a preliminary injunction, their
motion must be denied,” Bissoon said in the ruling.  The National Association of Chain Drug Stores, the National
Community Pharmacists Association and independent pharmacies
sued St. Louis-based  Express Scripts  and Medco on March 29,
arguing that the combination of the pharmacy-benefit management
companies would reduce competition and make fewer services
available to retail customers.  Express Scripts completed its purchase on April 2 after
receiving approval from the Federal Trade Commission.  Brian Henry , a spokesman Express Scripts, said the company
was pleased with the ruling. J. Robert Robertson, a lawyer for
the trade groups, didn’t immediately respond to a phone call and
an e-mail messages seeking comment on the ruling.  Fears Realized  The deal creates the largest pharmacy benefits manager in
the U.S. Express Scripts and  Franklin Lakes , New Jersey-based
Medco act as middlemen among drugmakers, pharmacies and health-
plan sponsors to manage patients’ benefits.  The FTC approved the purchase by a 3-1 vote. Clearance was
unconditional, with the majority of the commissioners saying
their eight-month review of the deal found “a competitive
market for pharmacy benefit management services.”  The groups claim the Medco acquisition will force pharmacy
customers into filling prescriptions by mail and result in the
loss of “face-to-face pharmacy services that patients prefer,”
Steven C. Anderson, president of the National Association of
Chain Drug Stores, said in the conference call with reporters
when the lawsuit was filed.  ‘Hold Separate’  Hours after the deal closed, the groups filed an emergency
request seeking an order to “hold separate Medco’s assets and
operations” while the lawsuit is pending.  At an April 10 hearing, Clifford Aronson, a lawyer for
Express Scripts, said more than $230 million had already been
spent on integration, and competitive information had already
been shared. Halting the acquisition would lead to a loss of
employees and customers as health plan managers wouldn’t want to
sign on companies with such uncertainty, he said.  “The injury to Express Scripts would be huge,” Aronson of
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom told Bissoon.  Bissoon asked Robertson at that hearing how “rolling
back” the deal would work, noting that top Medco executives had
already been terminated.  “Who would be running the show over Medco,” she asked?  Robertson, of Hogan Lovells LLP in  Washington , said Express
Scripts would have administrative control the merged company
while it wouldn’t be allowed to change the rates for drugs
reimbursed by Medco.  Displaced Management  Bissoon, in her ruling today, said the retailers’ fears
about displaced management and the exchange of confidential
information and trade secrets between the two companies have
already been realized because Express Scripts and Medco began
setting a detailed integration plan as early as July 2011.  By the time the merger closed, virtually all of Medco’s
senior  management  was terminated, including the majority of its
sales leadership and senior supply-chain management team,
Bissoon said.  Express Scripts demonstrated that a temporary injunction
“would result in a headless organization that would likely be
unable to survive on its own, much less compete” against
Express Scripts, Bissoon said. “This, ironically, is exactly
the harm that plaintiffs seek to prevent.”  The case is National Association of Chain Drug Stores v.
Express Scripts, 2:12-cv-00395, U.S. District Court, Western
District of  Pennsylvania  (Pittsburgh).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  