-- Bernanke Says ‘Prepared to Do More’ as Policy Unchanged
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-04-25T20:22:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/fed-says-economy-will-pick-up-gradually-policy-unchanged.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank stands ready to add to its
stimulus if necessary even after leaving its policy unchanged
today and upgrading its view of the economy for this year.  “We remain prepared to do more as needed to make sure that
this recovery continues and that inflation stays close to
target,” he said at a press conference today following a
meeting of the  Federal Open Market Committee  in Washington.
Additional bond-buying is still “very much on the table.”  Treasuries pared losses after Bernanke kept speculation
alive that the Fed might embark on a third round of monetary
easing after expanding its balance  sheet  to a record of almost
$3 trillion. Central bankers today raised their forecasts for
growth and the labor market this year while repeating that
borrowing costs are likely to remain “exceptionally low” at
least through late 2014.  The FOMC “expects economic growth to remain moderate over
coming quarters and then to pick up gradually,” it said in a
statement after a two-day meeting. The statement pointed to
“some signs of improvement” in housing while saying the
industry at the heart of the financial crisis “remains
depressed.”  Policy makers are holding off on additional steps to boost
the economy amid signs the more than two-year expansion is
gaining strength. Still, the jobless rate isn’t declining fast
enough to satisfy central bankers, who are also concerned about
potential shocks from the European debt crisis.  Global Strains  “Strains in global financial markets continue to pose
significant downside risks to the economic outlook,” according
to today’s statement. The Fed has cited the risk in its previous
five meetings. In March it said those strains had “eased.”  The yield on the benchmark 10-year note was little changed
at 1.99 percent at 4:15 p.m. in  New York , according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices, after rising as high as 2.04 percent.  Stocks rose for a second day after Bernanke’s comments and
as earnings beat estimates at companies from Apple Inc. to
Boeing Co. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1.4 percent
to 1,390.7.  Bernanke said that fiscal tightening may weigh on growth as
lawmakers seek an agreement to narrow the  budget deficit  by
year-end, before a deficit-reduction law requiring cutbacks
takes effect.  ‘Bar Is High’  “The bar is high, but it is still on the table given
uncertainty with  Europe  and fiscal policy in the U.S.,” said
 Diane Swonk , chief economist at Mesirow Financial Inc. in
 Chicago , speaking about the prospects for new easing.  Policy makers today upgraded their forecasts for growth and
unemployment this year. They now see the jobless rate at between
7.8 percent and 8 percent, compared with January estimates of
8.2 percent to 8.5 percent. The economy is forecast to expand at
2.4 percent to 2.9 percent, compared with 2.2 percent to 2.7
percent.  They also raised their projections for the inflation rate
this year, as measured by the personal consumption expenditures
 index (SPX) , to 1.9 percent to 2 percent, from 1.4 percent to 1.8
percent. The forecasts reflect the so-called central tendency,
which excludes the three highest and three lowest projections of
17 policy makers.  Inflation “has picked up somewhat, mainly reflecting
higher prices of crude oil and gasoline,” the Fed said today.
Gas prices will affect inflation “only temporarily,” it said.  Oil prices  have declined since the Fed’s March meeting, and
the national average cost of gasoline has fallen to $3.84 a
gallon from a 2012 peak of $3.94 on April 4, according to the
American Automobile Association.  Inflation Goal  Bernanke rejected suggestions that the Fed should allow
inflation to rise above its 2 percent goal in order to stimulate
growth, saying such a move would undercut the Fed’s credibility.  “To risk that asset for what I think would be quite
tentative and perhaps doubtful gains on the real side would be
unwise to do,” the Fed chairman said. It would be “very
reckless” to “actively seek a higher inflation rate in order
to achieve a slightly” faster reduction in unemployment.  The central bank said it would continue its swap of $400
billion of short-term debt with long-term debt to lengthen the
average maturity of its holdings, a move dubbed Operation Twist.
The Fed is scheduled to complete the program at the end of June.
The Fed also didn’t alter its policy of reinvesting its
portfolio of maturing housing debt into agency mortgage-backed
securities.  Echoes Yellen  Bernanke echoed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen ’s April 11
remarks that the end of Operation Twist won’t amount to a
tightening of policy. The benefits of the plan stem from the
total amount of new purchases, rather than the “flow” of such
buying, he said.  “If that theory is correct, then at such a time that our
purchases come to an end, there should be relatively minimal
effects on  interest rates ,” Bernanke said.  Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker  dissented for the
third meeting in a row. Lacker has said he believes the first
increase in interest rates will likely be necessary in 2013.  Fed policy makers met amid renewed concern over Europe’s
fiscal crisis. The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index of European
countries hit a three-month low on April 23 and has since
rallied as companies, including  Electrolux AB (ELUXB) , posted earnings
that beat estimates.  In the U.S.,  consumer spending  is starting to power growth
as business investment cools. A report today showed orders for
durable goods fell in March by the most in three years,
indicating manufacturing will contribute less to growth this
year.  Retail Sales  Retail  sales  rose more than forecast in March as Americans
snapped up everything from cars and furniture to clothes and
electronics. The 0.8 percent gain was almost three times as
large as projected and followed a 1 percent advance in February,
Commerce Department figures showed April 16.  An April 27 government report may show that gross domestic
product rose at a 2.5 percent annual rate in the first quarter,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists, driven by the biggest increase in household demand
in a year.  While Fed officials raised their projections for growth in
2012, they lowered their estimates for next year and 2014. The
economy will expand by 2.7 percent to 3.1 percent in 2013 and
3.1 percent to 3.6 percent in 2014, they projected. In January,
they predicted growth of 2.8 percent to 3.2 percent next year
and 3.3 percent to 4 percent in 2014.  Fiscal Impact  Bernanke said that the lower forecasts may reflect the
impact from fiscal tightening, and that Congress needs to reach
an agreement to address shortfalls. Bush-era tax cuts are set to
expire at the end of the year.  “If no action were to be taken by the fiscal authorities,
the size of the fiscal cliff is such that there’s no chance that
the  Federal Reserve  could or would have any ability whatsoever
to offset that effect on the economy,” Bernanke said.  Corporate earnings and an improving economic outlook are
powering stock-market gains. The  S&P 500  is up more than 10
percent this year.  “Despite its struggle with the sustained period of
relative high unemployment, we’re pleased to see some early
signs of a slowly improving macroeconomic environment” in the
U.S.,  Muhtar Kent , president and chief executive of  Coca-Cola
Co. (KO) , the world’s largest soft-drink maker, said in an April 17
earnings call.  More than 82 percent of companies in the S&P 500 that
reported quarterly results since April 10 topped the average
analyst earnings estimate, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg as of yesterday. Companies from AT&T Inc. to 3M Co.
beat analysts’ earnings projections. International Business
Machines Corp. boosted a stock buyback by $7 billion and
increased its dividend yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 salas1@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  