-- Federal Open Market Committee April 25 Statement: Full Text
-- B y   W a s h i n g t o n   n e w s r o o m   + 1 - 2 0 2 - 6 2 4 - 1 8 2 0 .   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 0 8 3 7 2 2 ]   J a m e s
-- 2012-04-25T16:32:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/federal-open-market-committee-april-25-statement-full-text.html
The following is a reformatted
version of the full text of the statement released today by
the  Federal Reserve  in Washington:  Information received since the  Federal Open Market
Committee  met in March suggests that the economy has been
expanding moderately. Labor market conditions have improved
in recent months; the unemployment rate has declined but
remains elevated. Household spending and business fixed
investment have continued to advance. Despite some signs of
improvement, the housing sector remains depressed.
Inflation has picked up somewhat, mainly reflecting higher
prices of crude oil and gasoline. However, longer-term
inflation expectations have remained stable.  Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee
seeks to foster maximum employment and  price stability . The
Committee expects economic growth to remain moderate over
coming quarters and then to pick up gradually.
Consequently, the Committee anticipates that the
 unemployment rate  will decline gradually toward levels that
it judges to be consistent with its dual mandate. Strains
in global financial markets continue to pose significant
downside risks to the economic outlook. The increase in oil
and gasoline prices earlier this year is expected to affect
inflation only temporarily, and the Committee anticipates
that subsequently inflation will run at or below the rate
that it judges most consistent with its dual mandate.  To support a stronger economic recovery and to help
ensure that inflation, over time, is at the rate most
consistent with its dual mandate, the Committee expects to
maintain a highly accommodative stance for monetary policy.
In particular, the Committee decided today to keep the
target range for the federal funds rate at 0 to 1/4 percent
and currently anticipates that economic conditions --
including low rates of resource utilization and a subdued
outlook for inflation over the medium run -- are likely to
warrant exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate
at least through late 2014.  The Committee also decided to continue its program to
extend the average maturity of its holdings of securities
as announced in September. The Committee is maintaining its
existing policies of reinvesting principal payments from
its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed
securities in agency mortgage-backed securities and of
rolling over maturing  Treasury securities  at auction. The
Committee will regularly review the size and composition of
its securities holdings and is prepared to adjust those
holdings as appropriate to promote a stronger economic
recovery in a context of price stability.  Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were:  Ben
S. Bernanke , Chairman; William C. Dudley, Vice Chairman;
Elizabeth A. Duke; Dennis P. Lockhart;  Sandra Pianalto ;
 Sarah Bloom Raskin ; Daniel K. Tarullo; John C. Williams;
and Janet L. Yellen. Voting against the action was Jeffrey
M. Lacker, who does not anticipate that economic conditions
are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels of the
federal funds rate through late 2014.
 