-- Fernandez Taps YPF Nostalgia as Takeover Bid Boosts Support
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2012-04-25T13:53:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/fernandez-taps-ypf-nostalgia-as-takeover-boosts-flagging-support.html
President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s surprise takeover of  YPF SA (YPFD)  is likely to boost her
flagging popularity as Argentines rally behind the re-
nationalization of the country’s biggest oil producer.  Fernandez’s support tumbled 18 percentage points to 44
percent in March after her October re-election as she limited
imports and tightened exchange controls, said Mariel Fornoni,
director of Buenos Aires pollster Management & Fit. Her decision
to take control of YPF from  Spain ’s  Repsol YPF SA (REP) , which is up
for a vote in the Senate today, tapped into support among 90
percent of Argentines who think energy and utility services
should be government-controlled, Fornoni said.  “This is a society that supports state management and the
decision on YPF has strong backing,” Fornoni said in an
interview yesterday. “The government knew this decision would
touch people’s emotions.”  Frustration over fuel shortages at gas stations and what
Fernandez said was a lack of investment and falling oil
production has helped unify support in both chambers of Congress
for the government’s plan to take a 51 percent stake in YPF.
Even Senator Carlos Menem, who sold YPF to investors in 1993
when he was president, said he’ll back the plan.  For decades a symbol of the open road, YPF is  Argentina ’s
flagship company, once offering fuel to drivers directly in
front of the presidential palace. The company, whose blue and
white logo matches the colors of the Argentine flag, produces
maps of the country’s highways and has 1,600 fuel stations
stretching from the Bolivian border to Tierra del Fuego.  Popular Support  About 62 percent of the public backs Fernandez’s move to
reclaim YPF, according to an April 19-20 survey by Poliarquia
Consultores that was published in newspaper La Nacion. The poll
of 1,115 people had a margin of error of 3 percentage points.  “Argentina is once again going to take control of a
strategic resource that no other nation in the world has given
up,” Interior Minister Florencio Randazzo said in a statement
yesterday, citing  Chile , Uruguay and  Venezuela  as examples of
countries with state-run energy companies.  Premium auto fuel costs about 6 pesos ($1.36) per liter in
Buenos Aires, compared to about $1.76 in Chile and $1.60 in
 Brazil .  Senate debate on the YPF bill started at 10:30 a.m. in
Buenos Aires. Fernandez’s Peronist party and its allies control
both houses of Congress. Approval by the Senate will send the
legislation to the lower house.  Sovereign Control  “We need to have sovereign control of our resources,”
Fernandez, 59, said in a speech yesterday, adding that she has
never been more nervous than before her announcement about the
takeover. “I am absolutely certain that this is the only road
possible for us.”  Argentine officials haven’t said how the government intends
to pay for the takeover. Economy Minister Hernan Lorenzino said
April 20 that the government needs to wait for a valuation of
the shares by a legal tribunal before taking further steps.  Officials at the presidential palace didn’t respond to
messages left by Bloomberg.  Repsol’s  shares  have declined 19 percent since Fernandez’s
announcement, which came four days after Jujuy province Governor
Eduardo Fellner left a meeting with the president saying there
was no prepared takeover plan. Repsol’s credit rating was cut by
 Standard & Poor’s  last week to BBB- from BBB with a negative
outlook. The outlook means the rating could be reduced further
if the company doesn’t lower its debt, S&P said.  Credit Rating  Repsol will do “whatever it takes” to defend its
investment grade credit rating, spokesman Kristian Rix said
yesterday.  While Congress debates the takeover, Fernandez had YPF
executives expelled from their offices within hours of
announcing her plan, appointing Planning Minister Julio De Vido
and Deputy Economy Minister Axel Kicillof to run the company.  Kicillof, in a two-hour presentation to the Senate on April
17, said the “state is the solution” to boosting demand and
production and that the YPF takeover would help the government
sustain annual economic growth that has averaged 7.7 percent
since 2003.  Yet signs of a slowdown have emerged.  Shopping center sales 
rose 2.7 percent in March from a year earlier, the least in
three years. Vehicle sales tumbled 3.6 percent in March from a
year earlier.  Consumer confidence  fell 12.7 percent in April
from March, the biggest decline since 2002. Argentines forecast
consumer prices will rise 30 percent over the next 12 months,
according to a poll by Buenos Aires-based Torcuato Di Tella
University.  Slower Growth  Growth may slow to 3 percent this year, according to the
median estimate of seven economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  De Vido and Kicillof have met with officials from  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  to discuss
future investments.  South America ’s second-biggest economy has
lagged smaller economies including Peru and  Colombia  in recent
years in attracting foreign investment.  Foreign direct investment fell 30 percent in the first six
months of 2011, the biggest drop among major economies in the
region, according to an October report by the United Nations
Economic Commission for  Latin America  and the Caribbean. FDI
fell to $2.4 billion through June 2011, compared with $44.1
billion in Brazil, $10.6 billion in  Mexico  and $7 billion in
Colombia. That decline could worsen with the takeover.  Business Risk  “Locally-based manufacturers might decide that the risks
to doing business in Argentina are too great and relocate to
another part of the region,” Michael Henderson, an emerging
markets economist at  Capital Economics  in  London  wrote in a
report yesterday.  A doubling of fuel imports last year, which shrunk the
trade balance the government depends on to bring dollars into
the economy, may have led Fernandez to speed up her decision to
take over the company regardless of the impact, said  Camilo Tiscornia , a former central bank economist who now runs research
company C&T Asesores in  Buenos Aires .  “Energy is essential because it hits growth, it hits the
fiscal balance because of subsidies and it hits trade, because
YPF had to import a lot of energy,” said Tiscornia. “It’s
logical that the government got itself entangled with the energy
sector because it was disrupting the country’s macro-economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  