-- Forint Rallying Most in 3 Years as Stocks Soar on EU Aid Consent
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-04-25T15:34:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/forint-gains-for-second-day-as-ec-considers-hungary-aid-request.html
The forint had its biggest two-day
gain against the euro since 2009 and  Hungary ’s benchmark equity
index jumped the most since November after the European
Commission approved the start of bailout talks.  Hungary’s currency appreciated 1.8 percent to 289 per euro
by 5:09 p.m. in Budapest, extending its two-day advance to 3.7
percent, the most on a closing basis since April 2009. The
government’s benchmark 10-year bonds increased, cutting yields
66 basis points to 8.138 percent, the lowest since November. The
BUX stock  index  rallied 4.2 percent as  OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) , Hungary’s
largest lender, strengthened 6.7 percent.  The European Commission is willing to open financial aid
talks with Hungary, Olivier Bailly, a spokesman for the European
Union’s executive arm, told reporters in Brussels today, five
months after Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  requested the aid from
the EU and the  International Monetary Fund . The delay in the
talks drove the forint to its weakest ever against the euro on
Jan. 5 at 324.24.  “We would expect negotiations to be lengthy still,”
Timothy Ash, a London-based strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc, wrote by e-mail today. “That said, the market in the
short term will still focus on this good news story.”  The Commission said it is “ satisfied ” with Hungary’s
pledges to change legislation which threatened the independence
of the central bank and whose passage at the end of last year
led to the halting of preparations for the aid talks. The
country was referred to the Court of Justice of the EU over the
independence of the judiciary and the data protection authority,
the commission said in a statement today.  ‘Very Soon’  The cost of insuring against default on Hungary’s debt with
credit-default swaps fell 38 basis points to 532 basis points,
the lowest on a closing basis since March 21, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Hungary can start the aid negotiations as soon as the
country passes legislation required by the EU, Gyula
Pleschinger, state secretary at the Economy Ministry told
reporters today, adding that he hoped the talks will start
“very soon.”  The forint may weaken against the euro and dollar as
approval for Hungary’s international bailout talks to go ahead
doesn’t guarantee a positive outcome for the aid negotiations,
 Wells Fargo & Co . said.  “We had expected forint to be an underperformer and we
still expect that,”  Nick Bennenbroek , New York-based head of
currency strategy at Wells Fargo, said in a phone interview
today. The Commission’s approval is “only one step in what is
seemingly quite a long process,” he added.  ‘Remains a Risk’  Hungary’s central bank is “satisfied to acknowledge” that
Orban guaranteed the Magyar Nemzeti Bank’s independence in his
talks this week with the European Commission, the bank said in
an e-mailed statement today.  “The interruption of negotiations remains a risk,”
Gergely Hudecz, a London-based economist at Credit Suisse Group
AG, wrote in a research report today. “However, we maintain our
view that an agreement will be reached this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  