-- Freepoint Commodities to Buy JPMorgan’s Metal-Concentrates Unit
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-04-25T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/freepoint-commodities-to-buy-jpmorgan-s-metal-concentrates-unit.html
Freepoint Commodities LLC, founded
last year by three former RBS Sempra Commodities LLP executives,
agreed to buy  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s metal-concentrates trading
arm, marking the company’s first foray into the market.  The energy-trading company based in Greenwich, Connecticut,
signed an agreement to buy J.P. Morgan Metals & Concentrates LLC,
which trades concentrates and copper cathodes. The terms are
confidential, David Messer, Freepoint’s chief executive officer,
said in a phone interview from Stamford, Connecticut yesterday.  Global metals demand is rising as China, the world’s
largest user, builds more infrastructure, housing and consumer
appliances. The  LMEX Index (LMEX) , which tracks six base metals traded
on the London Metal Exchange, has risen 5.5 percent this year.  The J.P. Morgan Metals traders, based in Stamford and China,
including  Hong Kong , will become Freepoint’s first in metals and
will probably be its first in  Asia , where it’s looking to tap
into the growing demand for raw materials, Messer said.  Messer said that the acquisition is a “reunion” because
he worked with the team of about 25 traders from the time Sempra
bought the unit in 2002 until he resigned as RBS Sempra’s chief
executive officer in 2009.  “Concentrates is a business we’re very familiar with since
we worked with them for almost a decade,” Messer said.
“Historically, the unit was considered one of the top three
players in the concentrates market, and I expect it to grow in
stature over time now that its future is determined.”  Brian Marchiony , a spokesman for JPMorgan in London,
declined to comment.  Asian plans  Freepoint has expanded operations in Europe, entered U.S.
power and natural-gas markets in June and said earlier this year
that it was planning to establish offices in Asia to trade
metals, oil and refined-petroleum products and coal.  The company is in the process of acquiring businesses in
Singapore, Dan Hecht, Freepoint’s general counsel, said in a
telephone interview yesterday from Greenwich, Connecticut.  Once the acquisition of J.P. Morgan Metals receives
regulatory approvals and is complete, the name of the company
will change to Freepoint Metals & Concentrates LLC, Hecht said.  Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  and Trafigura AG are also major
players in the concentrates market, Messer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  