-- FTC Loses Appeal in Androgel ‘Pay-for-Delay’ Patent Case
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-04-25T23:46:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/ftc-loses-appeal-in-androgel-pay-for-delay-patent-case-1-.html
A U.S. appeals court handed the
Federal Trade Commission a defeat in its campaign to block so-
called pay-for-delay arrangements between brand-name and generic
drug makers, ruling a settlement involving a patent on Androgel
didn’t violate antitrust laws.  The appeals judges in Atlanta upheld a lower court ruling
in favor of Brussels-based  Solvay SA (SOLB) , which sold Androgel, a
treatment for low testosterone in men, and three other companies
including Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. A settlement among the
four delaying generic versions until 2015 prompted the FTC’s
lawsuit.  The decision is a setback for FTC Chairman Jon Leibowitz,
who estimates such deals cost consumers about $3.5 billion a
year in higher prescription drug prices. The agency has failed
to successfully challenge such agreements in court or to
persuade Congress to outlaw them.  “We continue to believe this conduct violates the
antitrust laws,” Leibowitz said in a statement, calling the
situation a “lose-lose” for consumers. He said the FTC “will
consider all our options going forward.”  David Balto , a Washington-based attorney who represents
consumer groups on the issue, said Congress may have to find a
solution.  ‘Extremely Dogged’  “The FTC has been extremely dogged in pursuing these
settlements, but you can’t expect antitrust litigation to solve
these problems,” Balto said. “We really need legislation.”  David Belian, a spokesman for the Generic Pharmaceutical
Association, welcomed the ruling.  “This decision, along with several other prior court
decisions in similar suits brought by the FTC, reaffirms the
pro-competitive and pro-consumer nature of patent settlements,”
Belian said in an e-mail.  Kate Connors, a spokeswoman for the  Pharmaceutical Research
and Manufacturers of America , a Washington-based trade
association, said the group doesn’t comment on specific rulings.
The association has opposed restrictions of patent settlements.  Two similar cases are still pending, including one in a
trial court involving Cephalon Inc.’s Provigil, a drug to
improve wakefulness. The other, at the U.S. Appeals Court in
Philadelphia, involves K-Dur, a drug used to treat low blood
levels of potassium, by Schering-Plough Corp. USA, which was
acquired by Merk & Co. in 2009.  U.S. courts, including federal appeals panels in  New York ,
Atlanta and Washington, have upheld settlement agreements as
long as they don’t delay generics beyond the expiration of
patents.  The case is Federal Trade Commission v. Watson
Pharmaceuticals Inc., U.S Court of Appeals, 10-12729, 11th
Circuit (Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in  Washington  at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  