-- Geithner Says Economy Faces Risk From Europe Crisis, Iran
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-04-25T21:41:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/geithner-says-economy-faces-risk-from-severe-europe-crisis-iran.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said the U.S. faces risks from the crisis in Europe
while the confrontation with  Iran  has helped drive up  oil
prices .  “We still face some risks ahead,” Geithner said to the
Portland City Club today. “We still live in a dangerous and
uncertain world, with Europe confronting a severe and protracted
crisis. The world is engaged in a critical struggle with Iran,
which has added to upward pressure on oil prices.”  Geithner’s comments in Oregon come as Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said today that he remains prepared to
do more to stimulate growth if needed. Federal Reserve policy
makers said they expect growth to gradually accelerate, while
refraining from new actions to lower borrowing costs.  Crude oil for June delivery rose 57 cents to $104.12 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , a one-week high.
Prices have advanced 1.8 percent in the past four days, the
longest rally since the period ended Feb. 24.  Geithner said the economy is “gradually getting stronger”
while having a way to go to repair the damage of the financial
crisis. He warned that at year-end, the economy will face a
“fiscal cliff.”  ‘Fiscal Cliff’  “At the end of the year, we face a so-called fiscal
’cliff’ -- the simultaneous expiration of tax cuts and large
across-the-board cuts in spending,” Geithner said. “That cliff
presents a risk, but it also provides an opportunity for
bipartisan agreement on reforms to restore fiscal
sustainability.”  Geithner criticized Republican budget and tax plans, saying
any tax reforms must be combined with spending savings.  “If you try to restore fiscal balance without a penny of
additional revenue, then you have to cut deeply -- too deeply --
into critical functions of government,” Geithner said.  On  Europe , Geithner said it is in a much stronger shape
than it was months ago.  “Europe is doing a better job of managing their crisis,”
Geithner said in a CNBC interview. While growth is weak and
“they’ve got a really tough, long, hard road ahead of them,
they’ve done a much better job of providing a measure of calm
and stability.”  Geithner said the “competitive playing field” with  China 
is shifting in the U.S. direction. Geithner dismissed a comment
by Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  that if he were
president he would label China a “currency manipulator.”  “By just calling them a name? Like you can solve problems
in the world, a very complicated world we live in, by calling
people names?” Geithner said.  Geithner also responded “no” when asked at the Portland
City Club if he would become president of  Dartmouth College , his
alma mater. Geithner has said he won’t remain Treasury secretary
after the end of President Barack Obama’s first term.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  