-- Spanish Notes Rise on Company Profits; German Bunds Drop
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-04-25T15:48:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/german-bonds-drop-before-auction-as-spanish-debt-rallies.html
Spanish and Italian bonds rose for
a second day as larger-than-estimated earnings from companies
such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Electrolux AB (ELUXB)  boosted demand for higher-
yielding assets.  Spain’s 10-year yields dropped to the lowest in almost
three weeks as European stocks rallied after Apple reported a 94
percent surge in quarterly profit and  China ’s Premier Wen Jiabao
said the world’s second-largest economy will maintain “steady
and robust growth.” German bunds fell after a 30-year auction
attracted bids for less than the maximum sales target.  “There’s a bit of risk back on after some positive company
numbers helped stocks and improved the tone of the markets,”
said Eric Wand, a fixed-income strategist at Lloyds Banking
Group Plc in London. “There’s a continuation of what we had
yesterday with Italy and  Spain  rising.”  Spain’s  two-year yield  fell 17 basis points, or 0.17
percentage point, to 3.27 percent at 4:38 p.m. London time,
after declining 14 basis points yesterday. The 3.4 percent note
due April 2014 gained 0.315, or 3.15 euros per 1,000-euro
($1,319) face amount, to 100.25.  Two-year Italian yields dropped seven basis points to 3.25
percent, and Belgium’s fell six basis points to 1.17 percent.   Apple posted earnings yesterday that almost doubled last
quarter, reflecting demand for the iPhone in China. Electrolux
shares climbed as the world’s second-biggest appliance maker
reported first-quarter earnings that beat analysts’ estimates.
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA rose as the Spanish lender
also had higher-than-forecast profits.  Shares Rise  The Stoxx Europe 600  Index (SXXP)  of shares gained 1 percent, and
the euro was little changed at $1.3211.  Spain’s benchmark 10-year bond yield declined six basis
points to 5.80 percent after falling to 5.71 percent, the lowest
level since April 25. The extra yield investors demand to hold
the securities instead of similar-maturity bunds dropped 11
basis points to 406 basis points.  Wen said at a press conference in Stockholm yesterday that
China “remains committed to reform and opening up.” The
 Federal Reserve  will announce its policy statement today.
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will later hold a press conference.  “Market sentiment is starting to improve again,” said
Anders Moeller Lumholtz, an analyst at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in
Copenhagen. “Now the market is looking ahead to the Federal
Open Market Committee tonight.” Any mention of the Fed’s bond-
purchase program will be a “hot topic,” he said.  Bunds Decline  ECB President  Mario Draghi  called for a “growth compact”
in the euro area, telling lawmakers in Brussels today that risks
to the economic outlook remain on the downside.  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  said she backed the call to focus on spurring
growth, as German officials rejected charges they are fixated on
austerity to fight the crisis.  German bunds underperformed all their euro-area peers, with
the 10-year yield climbing four basis points to 1.74 percent.  The nation received bids for 2.75 billion euros of bonds
due in July 2044 at the auction, compared with a maximum sales
target of 3 billion euros. Germany sold the securities at a
record-low yield of 2.41 percent.  “The very low yield in the secondary market and the days
before was a hint, that it could be a tricky one,” Carl Heinz Daube, managing director of  Germany ’s Federal Finance Agency
said in an interview in Berlin today. “Overall it was OK. The
result has nothing to do with the credit worthiness of
Germany.”  French Debt  The French  10-year yield  dropped three basis points to
2.998 percent, falling below 3 percent for the first time since
April 18. The extra yield investors get for holding  France ’s
bonds instead of bunds narrowed eight basis points to 124 basis
points.  Volatility in Spanish  government bonds  was the highest of
24 developed-nation markets, followed by Germany and the U.K.,
according to measures of 10-year bonds, two- and 10-year yield
spreads and credit-default swaps compiled by Bloomberg.  Ten-year German  yields  remain in a downtrend, and are
heading toward their record low of 1.633 percent set on the
April 23, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  German bonds returned 1.1 percent this year, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. French securities rose 1.6
percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  