-- Germany ’Very Concerned’ on Reports on Ukraine’s Tymoshenko
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2012-04-25T18:25:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/germany-very-concerned-about-reports-on-ukraine-s-tymoshenko-1-.html
The German government is “very
concerned” about reports of mistreatment and abuse against
jailed Ukrainian opposition leader  Yulia Tymoshenko  and restated
its offer to host her for medical treatment.  “If these reports are true, then this action would be
considered completely unacceptable,” German government
spokesman Steffen Seibert told reporters today in Berlin.
President Joachim Gauck canceled a trip to Ukraine in mid-May
over the issue,  Sueddeutsche Zeitung  reported today.  Tymoshenko, who has back problems, began a hunger strike
April 20 after she said she was attacked by three men who pulled
her out of bed, hit her in the stomach and forced her to be
hospitalized near the eastern city of Kharkiv without her
consent. Kharkiv Prosecutor Hennadiy Turin denied Tymoshenko was
beaten while being transported to the hospital, according to a
statement on the Prosecutor General’s Office  website .  Tymoshenko, a 51-year-old former prime minister, was
sentenced in October to seven years in jail for abuse of office
in signing a natural-gas pact with  Russia  in 2009. Her
imprisonment has drawn criticism from the European Union and the
U.S and has indefinitely delayed an Association Agreement with
the 27-member bloc. She says  Viktor Yanukovych , who defeated her
to become president in a 2010 vote, engineered the case to
exclude her from this year’s parliamentary elections.  Curtailing Democracy  The targeting of members of the previous government “is
incompatible with the values that we hold high and feel
obligated to in  Europe ,” said Seibert. “The legal system
cannot be used to curtail democracy and to block the opposition.
The Ukrainian leadership under President Yanukovych must find a
way out of this situation very quickly and once again allow free
political competition.”  The cancellation of the German president’s trip to the
Ukrainian resort of Yalta for a meeting with regional leaders
was made in agreement with  Chancellor Angela Merkel ,
 Sueddeutsche Zeitung  said, citing the president’s office.  Tymoshenko said she refused to be transferred to a hospital
before talking to her lawyer, Serhiy Vlasenko, on April 23. She
was returned to her jail cell the next day.  “Considering the poor state of her health, one can expect
that the possible consequences of this hunger strike would be
especially grave,” said Seibert. “Therefore in our view it is
all the more urgent that Ms Tymoshenko undergo appropriate
medical treatment. The offer of the government to allow Ms
Tymoshenko to undergo such treatment here stands.”  Lawmakers from Tymoshenko’s party blocked access to
Ukraine’s parliament in the capital, Kiev, for a second day
today, demanding to be granted access to her.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  