-- Germany May Boost $6.6 Billion Wind Loan Program With KfW
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-04-25T13:10:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/germany-may-increase-support-for-offshore-wind-roettgen-says.html
Germany  may expand a 5 billion euro
($6.6 billion) program by state-owned  KfW Group  to boost lending
to the offshore wind industry, part of an effort to combat
delays in connecting turbines to the  power grid .  The government is in talks to increase support for mid-
sized grid operators including Tennet TSO GmbH that are
commissioning connections, Environment Minister Norbert Roettgen
said in Berlin today. He said the aim is “to strengthen the
 capital market , possibly with the help of the KfW” because the
grid companies don’t have the scale to finance multi-billion-
dollar projects alone.  KfW said its talks with the government could result in
opening the fund for grid projects by boosting its value or
using the existing amount, according to Wolfram Schweickhardt, a
spokesman for the bank. “While no decision has been made,
nothing is being ruled out,” he said.  Roettgen said the government is considering “possibly
expanding the 5 billion-euro program,” opened by the KfW  last
year . He didn’t specify whether this meant increasing the fund’s
size or whether it would be opened to cover grid projects, which
currently aren’t covered. The government will make a decision
this summer.  Germany seeks to have 25 gigawatts of turbines in its
waters by 2030, up from about 0.2 gigawatts at the end of last
year. The grid delays have been a setback for Chancellor Angela
Merkel’s plan to shift to a nuclear-free energy mix based on 80
percent renewable sources by 2050.  Siemens AG (SIE)  today cut its annual profit forecast for the
third time in five years after it booked 481 million euros in
extra costs this year from delays in hooking up marine wind
farms to the grid. EON AG and  RWE AG (RWE) , the country’s biggest
utilities, have threatened to halt investment in wind projects
until obstacles are removed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  