-- Gingrich to Suspend Campaign After Tough Primary Showing
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-04-25T16:39:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/gingrich-to-suspend-campaign-after-tough-primary-showing.html
Former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  will suspend his presidential candidacy after winning
just two Republican primaries and falling far behind in the
delegate count to his party’s presumptive nominee,  Mitt Romney ,
several people familiar with his plans said.  The former speaker is expected to announce his decision
next week and will throw his support behind Romney, a person
close to the campaign said.  “At present time we’re trying to work through some
details,” said Gingrich adviser Bob Walker, a former U.S.
representative from Pennsylvania. “He’s talking to Governor
Romney and the Republican National Committee about how he might
be useful in the future.”  Gingrich, who had vowed to stay in the race until the
party’s national convention convenes Aug. 27 in Tampa,  Florida ,
said in an NBC interview on April 23 that he would reassess his
candidacy based his showing in yesterday’s Delaware primary,
where he had focused his recent campaigning. He came in second
with 27 percent; Romney won with 56.5 percent.  Other Races  Romney, 65, also coasted to victories in primaries
yesterday in  New York ,  Connecticut , Pennsylvania and Rhode
Island. Gingrich finished third or fourth in those votes.  Gingrich, 68, failed to build on his Jan. 21 victory in the
 South Carolina  primary. That momentum sputtered in Florida’s
Jan. 31 primary, the next contest, where Gingrich lost to Romney
by 14 percentage points.  As the Republican race proceeded, the anti-Romney vote
Gingrich sought moved to former  Pennsylvania  Senator  Rick Santorum , who established himself as the main alternative to the
former Massachusetts governor when he swept Feb. 7 contests in
 Minnesota ,  Colorado  and Missouri. Santorum went on to win
several other primaries while the only other one Gingrich
captured was his home state of Georgia on March 6.  Gingrich rebuffed calls by Santorum supporters to drop out
of the race to consolidate the anti-Romney vote.  Santorum suspended his bid April 10, all but assuring the
Republican nomination for Romney, who unsuccessfully sought the
party’s nod four years ago. Romney’s remaining competitor is
Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas , who has yet to win a primary
or caucus.  Campaign Debts  Gingrich’s campaign listed $4.3 million in debts and
obligations at the end of March, according to  Federal Election
Commission  reports made public April 20. Gingrich owed himself
$271,775 for travel, the reports showed.  Other large debts include more than $1 million to Moby Dick
Airways and $49,502 to the Patriot Group for security services,
according to the reports. Winning Our Future, a political action
committee supportive of Gingrich, had almost $5.8 million cash
on hand at the end of March. It listed no debt or outstanding
loans. Billionaire casino executive  Sheldon Adelson  and his wife
gave $20 million to the super-PAC to support Gingrich’s
candidacy.  Gingrich in March cut his staff by a third and scaled back
travel plans to conserve his resources.  Following Santorum’s exit from the campaign, he urged
Santorum’s former supporters to make donations to his campaign.
“As the last remaining conservative in this race, we urgently
need your financial support,” Gingrich wrote in an e-mail
fundraising pitch sent shortly after Santorum’s announcement.  ‘Big Solutions’  Gingrich, who branded Romney as a “Massachusetts
moderate,” portrayed himself as the only Republican who could
successfully debate President  Barack Obama  and who offered “big
solutions.”  The former  Georgia  congressman’s debate performances during
the latter part of last year fueled his candidacy and spurred
him to the lead in polls of Republican voters in  Iowa , site of
the caucuses that began the nomination voting on Jan. 3. In
December he also benefited from  Herman Cain ’s departure from the
race that month amid allegations of improper sexual conduct,
which the former chief executive of Godfather’s Pizza Inc.
denied. Cain endorsed Gingrich in January.  As Gingrich’s stature rose, his Republican critics grew
more vocal and numerous. In an editorial published Dec. 15, the
editors of the National Review warned Republicans against
nominating Gingrich.  “The White House seems winnable next year, and with it a
majority in both houses of Congress,” they wrote. “We fear
that to nominate former Speaker Newt Gingrich, the front-runner
in the polls, would be to blow this opportunity.”  Ad Attacks  A super-PAC supporting Romney, Restore Our Future, also
began a media barrage against Gingrich, attacking him as a
candidate with “a ton of baggage.”  An estimated $5.8 million was spent on television
advertising in Iowa through Dec. 30, with $3.7 million financing
negative ads, according to most recent data available from New
York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG, a company that tracks
advertising. Most of those ads were directed against Gingrich.  The criticism of Gingrich focused extensively on his $1.6
million in earnings as an advocate for  Freddie Mac (FMCC) , a mortgage-
finance company seized by the government in 2008 after its stake
in subprime loans pushed it to the brink of collapse, and his
appearance that same year in a climate change advertisement with
House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, a California Democrat.  Gingrich finished fourth in the Iowa caucuses, which
Santorum won. In South Carolina, he mounted a comeback after a
strong debate performance in which attacked CNN John King for
asking about the candidate’s second wife’s claim that he asked
for an “open marriage” to carry on an affair with Callista Gingrich, his third and current wife.  In Florida, though, the new attention on his personal life
contributed to his loss to Romney, and voters motivated by
religious issues began shifting to Santorum.  To contact the reporters on this story: Lisa Lerer in Washington
at   llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 Cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  