-- Glaxo Quarterly Profit Misses Estimates on Europe Sales
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-04-25T16:16:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/glaxo-quarterly-profit-misses-estimates-on-europe-sales.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , the U.K.’s
largest drugmaker, reported first-quarter profit and sales that
missed analyst estimates as revenue declined in  Europe .  Earnings excluding some items were 27.3 pence a share,
London-based Glaxo said in a statement today. That missed the
average estimate of 29 pence from 11 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Sales increased 1 percent to 6.64 billion pounds
($10.7 billion), missing the average analyst estimate of 6.83
billion pounds.  The introduction of new treatments for cancer and heart
disease failed to counter a 6 percent sales decline in Europe,
where governments are cutting spending on health care amid
sluggish economic growth. Sales in the  Middle East  and  Africa ,
where economies are growing faster than in Europe and the U.S.,
dropped 6 percent, hurt by political instability and the timing
of vaccine tenders, Glaxo said.  “Turkey and  Russia , those are the markets that have been
significant actors in terms of pricing pressures,” Chief
Executive Officer  Andrew Witty  told journalists on a conference
call today.  The shares fell 3 percent to 1,413.50 pence in London, the
biggest decline in more than three months. The stock has
returned 20 percent  in the past year , compared with a 19 percent
return for the  Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index. (BEPHARM)   Share Repurchasing  The drugmaker said it would expand a program to repurchase
shares to 2 billion to 2.5 billion pounds from 1 billion to 2
billion pounds.  Glaxo switched to a “core earnings” method in the first
quarter for reporting operating profit and earnings per share,
which now excludes items such as legal charges, amortization
charges and restructuring costs, as other drugmakers do.  Glaxo said last week it bid to acquire  Human Genome
Sciences Inc. (HGSI)  for $2.59 billion, an offer the U.S. biotechnology
company rejected. The two companies have partnered on the lupus
drug Benlysta and are collaborating on late-stage experimental
drugs darapladib to prevent heart attacks and albiglutide to
treat diabetes.  While Human Genome has said the offer undervalues the sales
potential of Benlysta, Witty said it was a “full and fair”
bid.  “We are the compelling owner for this business,” Witty
said. “We have the rights and operational control for the three
main assets.”  Benlysta Relationship  Benlysta sales were 9 million pounds in the quarter. While
the lupus treatment is the main motivation for the Human Genome
bid, the offer also includes the potential value of the two
late-stage compounds, Witty said.  Human Genome  has the right to
receive 10 percent in royalties from sales of darapladib and 5
percent of sales in albiglutide, he said.  “The reason why we’re interested in the deal with Human
Genome is to simplify our relationship on Benlysta, to drive the
performance of Benlysta for the benefit of our shareholders and
to take efficiency opportunities that we believe exist,” he
said.  An independent data monitoring board has conducted an
interim analysis of one of the two darapladib clinical trials to
assess whether the drug’s efficacy was low or high enough to
halt the study, Witty said. The board advised to continue with
the test, which doesn’t give Glaxo clarity yet on the potential
of the drug, he said.  Darapladib  A “modest price bump” or a so-called contingent value
right that entitles shareholders to payments if darapladib is
commercialized may be possible, Jim Birchenough, an analyst at
 Bank of Montreal (BMO)  Trust Co. in  New York , said in a note today.  Earlier this month, Glaxo deepened its 10-year
collaboration with  Theravance Inc. (THRX)  by boosting its stake in the
company to 27 percent from 18 percent. The companies are
developing new respiratory drugs to help succeed Glaxo’s
Seretide, marketed as Advair in the U.S.  Witty declined to comment on whether the company would
raise its stake further.  “We are delighted with the progress of our respiratory
pipeline,” Witty said. “We feel very comfortable with what
we’ve just done.”  In  emerging markets , while the company may pursue smaller
bolt-on acquisitions, it will focus more on “organic growth”
through new product introductions, Witty said.  Glaxo said it has sufficient scientific data to seek
regulatory approval this year for the Relovair respiratory
medicine, Promacta for hepatitis C, and trametinib and a BRAF
inhibitor for melanoma after filing a  flu vaccine  in the first
quarter. The company also expects to release late-stage results
on six drugs and vaccines this year, including albiglutide and
the Mosquirix malaria inoculation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in  London  at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  