-- Goldman’s Blankfein Says He’s More Optimistic
-- B y   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-04-25T17:44:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/goldman-chief-blankfein-says-markets-may-show-things-go-right-.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein said he’s more
optimistic about markets than some economists and investors.  “I tend to be a little more positive than what I’m hearing
from other people,” Blankfein, 57, told Bloomberg Television
today in an interview at the investment bank’s New York
headquarters. “One of the big risks that people have to
contemplate is that things go right.”  Blankfein, chairman and CEO since June 2006, warned about
the potential for a credit crisis during a June 2007 conference,
15 months before the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
In November, he said he expected markets to “snap back.” The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rose  12 percent in the first three
months of this year, the most since the third quarter of 2009.  While profit at Goldman Sachs improved from the end of
2011, the fifth-biggest bank by assets reported last week that
first-quarter net income fell 23 percent from a year earlier as
revenue from trading bonds, currencies and commodities lagged
behind rivals  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)   Blankfein said his bank’s 12.2 percent return on equity in
the first quarter was a reflection of muted economic growth and
client demand, which he called a “lower third-quartile
opportunity set.” He said that investors shouldn’t extrapolate
the firm’s long-term prospects from those results.  ‘Room Ahead’  Goldman Sachs’s business model “suits us just fine” and
“we have a tremendous amount of room ahead of us to expand in
the businesses we’re in,” Blankfein said. The firm has been
conservative in expanding in overseas markets where it sees some
of the best opportunities going forward, he said.  “There’s a chance to be what Goldman Sachs is in the U.S.
over a much broader swath of the world, and that’s good,” he
said. Still, he added “there’s a consequence sometimes to being
too early.”  Blankfein has sought to emphasize the firm’s focus on
clients after the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and a
Senate subcommittee accused the company of misleading investors
about mortgage-related investments in the run-up to the
financial crisis.  Arthur Levitt , a former SEC chairman who is
now an adviser to Goldman Sachs, said last month that the firm
should stop saying it puts customers first “because nobody
really puts customers first.”  Market-Making  Blankfein said he’d spoken to Levitt since he made those
comments and that he thinks Levitt was referring to Goldman
Sachs’s market-making business, where the firm is typically
buying what clients are selling or selling what clients are
buying.  “Arthur’s comments were reserved for a narrower part of
the business,” Blankfein said. Even in market-making, the firm
shows that clients come first because in rough markets “we will
hold ourselves out as standing out there and doing more than
other people would be doing,” he added.  In a separate interview today with CNBC, Blankfein said
that an internal inquiry has found no “substantiation” of a
former employee’s claims that staff disparage clients.  Greg Smith , a former derivatives salesman who quit after 12 years at
the firm on March 14, wrote a New York Times op-ed that blamed
Blankfein and President Gary D. Cohn, 51, for presiding over a
decline in the firm’s culture of putting clients first.  “The reaction internally was one of shock,” Blankfein
told CNBC. “We had 30,000 people who felt the opposite and
clients who were supportive.”  Hit by Bus  Blankfein told CNBC that Goldman Sachs’s board of directors
has a leadership succession plan for the long term and for the
hypothetical situation in which the CEO is hit by a bus. If that
were to happen, the person who would succeed Blankfein doesn’t
know it.  “We have a lot of terrific senior executives including,
but not limited to, Gary,” Blankfein said, referring to Cohn.
“I have no plans to leave.”  Goldman Sachs as an institution doesn’t have a view on who
should be elected U.S. president in November, Blankfein said. He
said he hasn’t made up his mind about whom to support.  “I’m a Rockefeller Republican -- a registered Democrat and
a Rockefeller Republican,” he said, adding that he holds
conservative views on fiscal policy and more liberal positions
on social issues. “Where that will get me, I’m not sure yet.”  Goldman Sachs closed yesterday at $114.11 in  New York ,
lower than the firm’s $123.94 per share tangible book value as
of March 31. The  shares fell  0.4 percent at 1:20 p.m. today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Schatzker in New York at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net 
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 