-- Grain-Ship Rates Erase 2012 Decline as Agricultural Exports Rise
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2012-04-25T14:15:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/grain-ship-rates-erase-2012-decline-as-agricultural-exports-rise.html
The cost of shipping grains and
minerals erased this year’s decline on speculation expanding
South American agricultural exports are eroding a record fleet
of vessels competing for the cargoes.  Day rates for Panamaxes, each 750-feet long and hauling
about 75,000 metric tons of cargo, rose 3.9 percent to $13,520,
according to the  Baltic Exchange  in London, which publishes
shipping prices on more than 50 maritime routes. Today’s
increase, the 12th in a row, means costs have risen 2.9 percent
in 2012. They plunged by as much as 59 percent in February.  Brazilian soybean exports will jump 19 percent to 35.7
million tons in the 12 months ending in September, the U.S.
Department of Agriculture estimates. The extra cargoes from the
world’s largest soy shipper are enough to fill about 75
Panamaxes. China may have purchased as much as 1 million tons of
corn last week to increase stockpiles, Beijing-based researcher
Grain.gov.cn said yesterday in a report.  “The key driver in Panamax right now is the grain demand
from East Coast  South America ,” Steve Rodley, U.K. managing
director at Global Maritime Investments Ltd., a Cyprus-based
company that operates as many as 80 dry-bulk ships and trades
freight derivatives, said by e-mail today. “This is
supplemented by a number of other stars aligning.”  In addition to rising agricultural shipments, delays are
above normal at many of the ports where cargoes are loaded,
curbing the supply of ships, he said. The vessels are also
loading more coal from both  Indonesia  and the U.S., he said.  Australian Delays  Earnings for Capesize vessels, which are about twice the
size of Panamaxes and haul iron ore and coal, slid for a fourth
session because of a surplus of available ships and reduced
shipments from  Australia , said Rodley.  Hire costs declined 0.5 percent to $6,509 a day, the Baltic
Exchange data show. The Baltic Dry Index, a wider measure of
commodity shipping costs, added 1.9 percent to 1,137 points, the
highest since Jan. 11, according to the exchange.  Workers at mines in Queensland owned by the BHP Billiton
Mitsubishi Alliance, or BMA, the world’s biggest exporter of
steel making coal, have intensified industrial action since the
start of the year, adding to rolling strikes since June. About
3,000 miners at seven operations stopped work for a week last
month and have held further strikes since.  Rates for Supramaxes, about 25 percent smaller than
Panamaxes, gained 1.9 percent to $11,369, the highest price
since Jan. 9. Handysizes, the smallest vessels tracked by the
gauge, gained 0.9 percent to $8,698, the data show. Like
Panamaxes, both the vessels can also be used to move crop
exports.  Record Fleet  The carrying capacity of global Panamax fleet reached 160.7
million deadweight tons this month, the largest since since at
least 1970, according to data from Clarkson Research Services
Ltd., a unit of the world’s largest shipbroker.  “Chinese imports of grain from South America starts mid-
march and finishes end of May, so there’s only a short window
opportunity to buy grain,” Philippe van den Abeele, managing
director of Castalia Fund Management (U.K.) Ltd., a London-based
adviser to a hedge fund trading shipping derivatives, said by
phone today. “Panamax rates have a tendency to go up and so we
will see this short-term spike in rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in  London  at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  