-- Icahn Drops Amylin Suit After Talks With Drugmaker’s CEO
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-04-25T19:49:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/icahn-drops-amylin-suit-after-talks-with-drugmaker-s-ceo-1-.html
Billionaire  Carl Icahn  dropped a
lawsuit against Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc. over a corporate
bylaw that blocked investors from ousting directors who rejected
a Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. takeover offer.  Icahn, Amylin’s third-largest investor, withdrew the
complaint after meeting with Amylin Chief Executive Officer
Daniel Bradbury, Icahn said today in an e-mailed statement.
Icahn, who criticized Amylin officials for rejecting the $22-a-
share bid, didn’t disclose the subject of the talks.  “I continue to strongly believe this company should be
sold at this time,” Icahn said in a telephone interview. “It
would be a great acquisition for a number of big pharma
companies.”  Icahn, who has threatened proxy fights against at least
seven drug companies in the past five years, sued Amylin in
 Delaware  Chancery Court over a rule requiring advance notice of
candidates for board seats after the board rejected Bristol-
Myers’s $3.5 billion buyout bid.  A separate Icahn suit pending in state court in Delaware
seeks records about Amylin’s consideration of the offer.  Officials of San Diego-based Amylin, make of the diabetes
drugs  Bydureon  and  Byetta , said they were pleased with Icahn’s
decision to drop the bylaw suit.  ‘Greatest Value’  The company’s board “continually considers all options
available and is relentlessly focused on creating the greatest
value for our stockholders,” Alice Izzo, an Amylin spokeswoman,
said in an e-mailed statement.  Amylin rose 2.9 percent to $26.28 at 3:32 p.m. New York
time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. Before today, the shares
had gained 66 percent since March 27, the day before the
Bristol-Myers bid was reported.  Icahn, who held 14.4 million  Amylin shares  as of April 4,
gained board representation in 2009 after running a proxy
contest in which he criticized the company’s ability to return
value to shareholders.  In the bylaw suit, Icahn alleged that Amylin officials set
a Jan. 25 cutoff for submitting names of potential candidates
for company board seats. The deadline expired before the
disclosure of the Bristol-Myers offer, the billionaire said.  The case was Icahn Partners LP v.  Amylin Pharmaceuticals
Inc. (AMLN) , CA 7404, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  