-- Military Probe Into Prostitute Scandal May Be Expanding
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-04-25T21:31:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/military-probe-into-prostitute-scandal-may-be-expanding.html
The Pentagon’s investigation of
personnel being involved with prostitutes in  Colombia  will
examine whether more senior officials bear responsibility,
according to the chairman of the Senate Armed Services
Committee.  “They’re going to see whether there are others who may
have done something wrong, including anyone up the chain of
command,” said Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat, who
spoke to reporters today after a closed-door briefing with
Defense Department representatives.  The military is investigating the possible involvement of
its personnel in the scandal focused on whether Secret Service
employees consorted with prostitutes in Cartagena, Colombia,
before President Barack Obama’s visit there this month for the
Summit of the Americas.  Twelve military personnel and another dozen Secret Service
employees have been investigated for misconduct in Cartegena, in
some cases involving rules such as curfews.  Senator  John McCain , the committee’s senior Republican,
said defense officials were “woefully unprepared” for the
briefing and couldn’t answer “even the most basic questions.”  “We are being denied access to the information we need in
order to make informed judgments or take needed actions,”
McCain of Arizona said in a statement. “This is entirely
unacceptable.”  ‘Sketchy’ Briefing  Levin called the briefing “sketchy” while declining to
join McCain in criticizing the Defense Department.  “The military is traditionally reluctant to provide
details of an investigation before it’s completed,” Levin said.
“I was surprised it was not fuller, but they gave us the
reasons for why they proceeded in this way.”  The military plans to complete its investigation by the end
of next week and the Senate panel will arrange for a follow-up
briefing early in the following week, Levin said.  Levin said he wants to know why some of the 12 military
personnel were allowed to continue on the mission in Cartagena
even after commanders knew they had violated curfews.  “They did know that there were curfew violations,
apparently, by at least some of the 12 members of the military
prior to the arrival of the president,” Levin said. “A
decision was made nonetheless to let those folks, those members
of the military, continue with the mission.”  While that decision may not necessarily have been wrong,
Levin said it “raises a question” that needs to be resolved by
the commander of U.S. Southern Commmand.  He said the investigation may not be confined to the 12
service members already involved.  “At this moment, it’s an investigation,” Levin said.
“There are no conclusions reached.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  