-- Imax Tests Laser Projector Built With Kodak Patents
-- B y   A n t h o n y   P a l a z z o
-- 2012-04-25T20:55:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/imax-tests-laser-projector-built-with-kodak-patents.html
Imax Corp. (IMAX) , the pioneer of large-
screen cinema, has begun testing a prototype laser-projection
system, based on patents licensed from  Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ) , that
improves picture quality with brighter light.  The system, which uses two projectors and incorporates
Mississauga, Ontario-based Imax’s image-enhancing technology,
will allow movies to be shown on screens 120 feet wide or more.
It will be available in the fourth quarter of 2013, said Greg Foster, chairman and president of filmed entertainment. The
company demonstrated the prototype to studios last week, using
clips including  Warner Bros .’ “The Dark Knight Rises,” the
final Batman movie from director  Christopher Nolan .  The new system gives Hollywood studios and cinema chains
another potential tool to keep moviegoers in theaters as
competition mounts from large-screen televisions and Web-based
options. With the additional “horsepower” provided by laser’s
focused light, theaters can improve the picture quality,
including in newer formats such as 3-D.  “We’re very pleased with where we are at this point, and
pleased with the reaction from our key partners,” Foster said
in an interview.  Nolan showed clips from “The Dark Knight Rises,” at the
exhibitors’ Cinemacon trade show yesterday in  Las Vegas . One-
third of the movie was shot using Imax cameras, he told the
audience there.  Imax licensed the patents in October, paying Rochester, New
York-based Kodak $10 million upfront plus ongoing royalties and
a milestone payment, a person with knowledge of the matter said
then. Kodak filed for bankruptcy in January after digital camera
technology surpassed the film-based photography market the
company pioneered.  Imax rose 3.4 percent to $24.38 at the close in New York
trading. The shares have added 33 percent this year.  Warner Bros., owned by  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) , also showed early
clips yesterday of Peter Jackson’s “The Hobbit: An Unexpected
Journey,” filmed at the faster rate of 48 frames per second,
which makes the image clearer and easier on the eyes. The movie
will be released in December with Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios
Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony Palazzo in  Los Angeles  at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  