-- IMF Spain Financial Sector Assessment Program (Text)
-- B y   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-04-25T16:43:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/imf-spain-financial-sector-assessment-program-text-.html
Following is the text of the
mission assessment from the International Monetary Fund visit
to  Spain :  A Financial Sector Assessment Program[1] (FSAP) team led by the
Monetary and Capital Markets Department of the IMF has visited
Spain between February 1-21 and April 12-25, 2012,  in order to
conduct an update of the Fund’s 2006 assessment of the soundness
and stability of Spain’s financial sector. Such assessments are
undertaken about every five years. The following provides some
initial findings from the mission. These findings are subject to
further review, and will also serve as background to the Article
IV discussions to be held with the IMF’s European Department in
late spring 2012.  The Spanish authorities are focusing on strengthening the
financial system, a crucial condition to support the broader
process of economic recovery. A major and welcome restructuring
of the savings bank sector is taking place, but the capacity to
cope with the needed adjustments differs significantly across
the system. The largest banks appear sufficiently capitalized
and have strong profitability to withstand a further
deterioration of economic conditions, but vulnerabilities remain
in other banks that are reliant on state support, and the sector
as a whole remains vulnerable to sustained disruptions in
funding markets.  The assessment confirms the need to continue with and further
deepen the financial sector reform strategy to address remaining
vulnerabilities and build strong capital buffers in the sector.
A carefully designed strategy to clean up the weak institutions
quickly and adequately is essential to avoid any adverse impact
on the sound banks. Furthermore, dealing effectively and
comprehensively with banks’ legacy problem assets should be the
priority of the next stage of the financial reform strategy.  1.                  The past four years have witnessed a crisis
of unprecedented proportion in the Spanish financial sector in
its history. While external factors contributed to the turmoil,
significant risks posed by a real estate boom-bust cycle, which
materialized in the savings bank sector, exposed weaknesses in
the policy and regulatory framework and an over reliance on
wholesale funding.  2.                  A major and much needed restructuring of the
savings bank sector is now taking place in the aftermath of the
real estate boom-bust cycle. Reforms to the savings banks’ legal
framework together with financial support from the state-owned
recapitalization vehicle (FROB) were instrumental in starting
the much-needed reform process to restructure the banking
sector. The number of institutions has been reduced from 45 to
11 through actions including interventions, mergers and
takeovers. These actions have been focused on the weakest
institutions, and by the end of 2012, institutions representing
about 15 percent of the system with total assets equivalent to
over 50 percent of GDP will have been resolved.  3.                  Recently, loan loss provision requirements
have been increased for the banks in anticipation of expected
further credit losses related to the real estate sector and the
weak macro-economic environment. It will be difficult for some
banks to meet this new requirement, however, and the markets’
perception of rising sovereign and banking sector risk may put
further strains on banks, especially those that face large
wholesale funding needs.  4.                  The team’s stress tests, which covered more
than 90 percent of the domestic banking sector, showed that most
banks would be resilient to large further shocks, although there
were pockets of vulnerabilities. Lender forbearance--which the
supervisory authorities have indicated they are monitoring
closely--could not be fully incorporated into the stress tests
due to lack of data--and this may have masked the extent of
credit risk in some institutions. The team’s results suggest:  ·                     The largest banks appear sufficiently
capitalized and have strong profitability to withstand the
expected further deterioration of economic conditions. The solid
capital buffers of most banks as well as the robust earning
capacity of the internationally diversified large banks have
reduced system-wide solvency concerns to a relatively low-
probability event of a confluence of adverse macroeconomic
developments.  ·                     A group of ten banks, most of which have
received state support and are in varying degrees of resolution
strategy, were identified as being vulnerable. Five of them have
been acquired by or merged with other solvent entities. Three
are in the process of being auctioned and the remaining two have
submitted business plans that have been approved by the central
bank. To preserve financial stability, it is critical that these
banks, especially the largest one, take swift and decisive
measures to strengthen their balance sheets and improve
management and governance practices.  ·                     Although liquidity positions have improved
and ECB long-term funding brings a reprieve, Spanish banks need
to continue to build their capital buffers so that they can
freely access private funding markets.  5.                  The authorities are, rightly, focusing on
strengthening the banking sector. This is a crucial condition to
support a broader process of economic recovery. There is an
appropriate sense of urgency from the authorities, as well as an
awareness of the need for a carefully designed strategy, given
the potential implications on the public debt dynamics. Indeed,
unless the weak institutions are quickly and adequately cleaned
up, the sound banks will suffer unnecessarily by a continued
loss of market confidence in the banking sector.  6.                  Dealing effectively and comprehensively with
banks’ legacy problem assets should be the priority of the next
stage of the financial reform strategy. There are a number of
options for managing impaired assets including keeping these
assets in the banks or setting up private or public specialized
asset management companies. To give guidance on the best
strategy for the Spanish banking system going forward, a
comprehensive diagnostic of the impaired assets can be
particularly useful.  7.                  The authorities are pursuing a strategy of
burden sharing between the public and private sector to resolve
the problem banks. Public resources are channeled through the
FROB--the vehicle established by the State to foster such
process--while private resources are drawn from the deposit
insurance scheme, the FGD, which is funded by the industry. To
avoid resolution costs becoming too high for the industry to
bear, especially in a reasonable time period, greater reliance
on public funding may be needed, after exhausting options for
private recapitalization,  to preserve financial stability and
to avoid excessive deleveraging. The assessment of the financial
oversight framework identified key strengths and weaknesses. The
main strengths of the supervisory agencies are their highly
experienced and respected professional staff supported by good
 information systems  and thorough supervisory processes. The
existence of a strong nexus among the authorities facilitates
cooperation and the flow of information, and several
recommendations made in the previous FSAP have been addressed.
However, a number of weaknesses need to be addressed. These
include the need to:  ·                     Strengthen the regulatory independence for
the banking and securities regulators and the lack of
financial/budgetary independence for the insurance and
securities regulators;  ·                     Strengthen the authority for the banking
regulator to address preemptively the build-up of risks in the
system;  ·                     Strengthen the regulatory framework for
the insurance sector (the current insurance solvency regime is
not risk-sensitive) and the monitoring of potential risk build-
up in the sector due to out-dated solvency regime; and  ·                     Strengthen the remedial action and
sanctioning regime in banking and securities supervision.  SOURCE:  International Monetary Fund  