-- IMF Says Spain May Need to Use More Public Funds for Banks
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-04-25T22:10:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/imf-says-spain-may-need-to-use-more-public-funds-for-banks.html
Spain  may need to use more public
money to shore up its banks, the  International Monetary Fund 
said, as it raised the possibility of lenders offloading toxic
assets into separate vehicles.  While the largest banks “appear sufficiently
capitalized,” the capacity to deal with adjustments “differs
significantly across the system,” the Washington-based lender
said in a report yesterday after sending a mission to Spain.  “Greater reliance on public funding may be needed” to
avoid the costs of the overhaul becoming too high for the
industry, the  IMF  said.  Spain made legal changes in February to force banks to
recognize deeper real-estate losses. While the state’s bailout
fund can buy securities from banks that need help, an industry-
financed facility is bearing the cost of failed banks. In a new
phase of the overhaul, the government may encourage lenders to
pool assets in jointly owned companies to get them off their
books, an Economy Ministry official said on April 23.  The country needs to “further deepen the financial-sector
reform” and make a priority of dealing with so-called legacy
assets, the IMF said. Separating those assets into separate
asset-management companies is an option, according to the
report.  Comprehensive Diagnostic  “To give guidance on the best possible strategy for the
Spanish banking system going forward, a comprehensive diagnostic
of the impaired assets can be particularly useful,” the IMF
said.  The idea of letting banks split off bad assets once losses
are recognized was raised last week by Jose Maria Roldan, head
of regulation at the Bank of Spain. The Madrid-based central
bank gave no more details in the text it published after Roldan
made a presentation to analysts in  London  on April 19.  The Economy Ministry official didn’t say how the program
may be financed, adding that taxpayers’ money wouldn’t be used
as the nation struggles to trim the euro region’s third-largest
budget deficit.  Deputy Economy Minister Fernando Jimenez Latorre said
yesterday it’s up to Spanish banks to find the best way to
dispose of bad assets, or assets which take a long time to sell.  “Whether they create a vehicle more specialized in the
real estate sector, with independent management, with the
participation of third-party funds, it will be the banks
themselves that do it,” Latorre said in Madrid after the IMF
released the report.  The IMF also said bad loans may be higher than  data 
suggest, amid “lender forbearance.” It said 10 banks were
identified as “vulnerable.” Of those, five have merged, three
are being auctioned and two have submitted business plans to the
central bank.  “To preserve financial stability, it is critical that
these banks, especially the largest one, take swift and decisive
measures to strengthen their balance sheets and improve
management and governance practices,” it said, without naming
any of the lenders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  