-- Immigration Fight Echoes Health-Care Case at High Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-04-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/immigration-fight-echoes-health-care-case-at-high-court.html
The U.S. Supreme Court will hear
echoes of its health-care arguments as it reviews  Arizona ’s
illegal-immigrant crackdown, a law that inspired similar moves
across the country and sparked a confrontation with President
 Barack Obama .  Like last month’s debate over health care, the immigration
case set for argument today pits the federal government against
the states over their respective spheres of power. Politics
envelops the case, with Republican-controlled states backing
Arizona against the Obama administration.  The case “has all the ingredients of important law,
important federalism principles and hot politics,” said Steven
Schwinn, a constitutional law professor at John Marshall Law
School in  Chicago .  The case will define states’ role on an issue some of them
say has become a crisis: the presence of more than 10 million
unauthorized aliens in this country. Arizona’s law, the first of
its kind, would require police to check the status of people
they suspect are in the U.S. illegally, and to arrest those they
believe are eligible to be deported. The case may affect laws in
 Alabama ,  South Carolina ,  Georgia ,  Utah  and  Indiana .  Unlike health care, the administration is on offense in the
immigration case, challenging four provisions in the Arizona
law. Government lawyers say S.B. 1070, as the law is known,
encroaches on the exclusive federal right to set immigration
policy.  Lawyers Duel Again  The federal government “has the ultimate authority to
regulate the treatment of aliens while on American soil because
it is the nation as a whole -- not any single state -- that must
respond to the international consequences of such treatment,”
U.S. Solicitor General Donald Verrilli argued in court papers.  Verrilli will be making his first appearance before the
justices since he argued the health-care case in March. He again
will square off against  Paul Clement , a Washington lawyer who
represented 26 states challenging the health-care law and will
be defending the Arizona immigration measure today.  Arizona’s law would require police officers to check
immigration status when they arrest or stop someone and have
“reasonable suspicion” that the person is in the U.S.
illegally. It would authorize officers to arrest anyone they
have “probable cause” to believe is eligible to be deported.  The law also would bar aliens without the proper papers
from seeking or performing work. It would be a state criminal
offense for a foreigner to be in Arizona without correct
documentation, subjecting violators to as much as 30 days in
prison.  Cost to Arizona  The parts of Arizona’s law being challenged have never
taken effect. A divided federal appeals court blocked them.  Arizona says its 370-mile border with  Mexico  is the
crossing point for half the nation’s illegal immigrants, giving
it the right to tackle a problem the national government has
failed to address.  “Arizona could no longer afford the cost of all this
illegal immigration into the state of Arizona, into our
education system, our hospital system and prisons,” Arizona
Governor Jan Brewer, a Republican who signed the measure in
2010, said in an interview. “The cost was just overwhelming.”  Arizona had 360,000 unauthorized immigrants in 2011,
according to the U.S. Homeland Security Department. During the
last four decades, 12 million immigrants came to the U.S. from
Mexico, most illegally, according to a report released yesterday
by the Pew Hispanic Center, a nonpartisan research group in
 Washington . Net Mexican migration to the U.S. has now stopped
and may have reversed, the report said.  Beyond Cooperation  The central question for the justices is whether the U.S.
Immigration and Nationality Act pre-empts the Arizona
provisions. That statute says states may cooperate in enforcing
federal law.  The administration contends Arizona has gone beyond
cooperation and is trying to implement its own immigration
policy. Verrilli says the state measure would undermine the
federal government’s effort to give highest priority to illegal
aliens who threaten public safety and those who belong to gangs
that smuggle other aliens, drugs and weapons.  The mandatory nature of the Arizona law means that police
officers will be asking federal officials to verify the
immigration status of jaywalkers, Verrilli said in court papers.  The law “changed Arizona’s policy from one of cooperation
to one of confrontation,” Verrilli argued.  Clement, arguing for Arizona, countered that local police
officers “have inherent authority to enforce the immigration
laws, both criminal and civil.”  Question of Deference  He added that states don’t have to defer to the federal
government’s priorities, as Verrilli had suggested.  “While this domineering arrangement might reflect an
efficient relationship between dance partners, it is an odd
notion of cooperation between sovereigns,” argued Clement, who
served as solicitor general under President  George W. Bush .  As with the health care argument, the immigration case
might split the court along ideological and party-based lines.
That happened last year, when the court’s five Republican-
appointed members voted to uphold a separate Arizona law that
threatens companies with loss of their corporate charters if
they hire illegal immigrants.  The 5-3 ruling said a federal law governing immigrant
hiring leaves room for states to impose their own penalties for
non-compliance.  Kagan Not Participating  Justice Elena Kagan didn’t take part in that ruling and
isn’t participating in today’s case either. She played a role in
the litigation as Obama’s top Supreme Court lawyer before her
2010 appointment to the court.  One issue not directly before the justices is the
contention that the law will lead to racial profiling by police
officers. That claim is part of a separate lawsuit being waged
by civil rights advocates against the Arizona measure.  The  high court  might strike down some aspects of the law
while leaving the rest intact, said John E. Eastman, a professor
at Chapman University School of Law in Orange,  California .  The “most vulnerable” provisions are those making it a
crime not to carry registration documents and barring illegal
aliens from working in Arizona, said Eastman, who filed a brief
supporting the law. “Even if those two provisions are struck
down, I think the rest stands.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  