-- Indicted Trader Kupersmith Plans Guilty Plea, Lawyer Says
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-04-25T19:55:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/indicted-trader-kupersmith-plans-guilty-plea-lawyer-says-1-.html
Scott Kupersmith, who was charged
with taking part in a scheme involving $60 million in illegal
stock trades, intends to plead guilty to fraud and grand larceny
in  New York , his lawyer said.  Prosecutors said Kupersmith, 47, used assumed identities to
create five shell companies employed in the scheme and defrauded
at least six broker-dealers of more than $830,000.  A hearing scheduled for today before New York State Supreme
Court Justice Maxwell Wiley in Manhattan was postponed until May
9 because Kupersmith’s attorney, Leonard Levenson, didn’t show
up. Kupersmith, who is in federal custody in a related case, was
in court for the scheduled hearing. He didn’t speak during the
proceeding.  “This is the tail of the dog,” Levenson said later,
referring to the state charges. “His plea will have little
consequence on the time he spends in jail,” the lawyer, who
arrived after today’s proceeding was postponed, said in an
interview outside court.  Manhattan  District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr.’s office had no
comment on a plea, Joan Vollero, a spokeswoman, said in a phone
interview.  Plea Negotiations  Plea negotiations with federal prosecutors are under way in
New Jersey, where Kupersmith was charged with securities and
wire fraud in October, according to a court document filed on
March 15. Lisa Mack, an attorney with the federal public
defender’s office in New Jersey who is representing Kupersmith
there, didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message seeking
comment.  Kupersmith, of  Boca Raton ,  Florida , and formerly of Alpine,
New Jersey, was arrested in Florida in October after a joint
investigation by the U.S. Attorney’s Office in New Jersey and
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, according to court
documents and a  statement  from Vance’s office. He is in federal
custody in Essex County, New Jersey.  Kupersmith and others are accused of taking part in a
scheme known as “free-riding,” where a customer buys or sells
securities in a brokerage account without having the money or
securities to pay for them, according to a court document filed
by federal prosecutors in New Jersey.  “Free-riders” typically cover their purchases by buying
shares of the same security on the same day through another
firm, and attempt to profit from short-term price changes
without putting personal assets at risk, according to the court
filing.  Brokerage Accounts  Kupersmith and associates opened more than three dozen
brokerage accounts in 2008 and 2009, including nine separate
accounts at firms located in  New Jersey  and elsewhere,
prosecutors said in the court filing.  Kupersmith asked that each account be opened as a
“delivery-versus-payment,” or DVP, account, which allows
clients to buy or sell securities with one firm and settle them
with cash or securities from an account at another firm,
according to the court filing.  Brokerage firms “generally” only allow institutional
customers or individuals with high net worth to open DVP
accounts, and Kupersmith “falsely represented” to the firms
that he had a personal net worth of about $5 million and ran a
hedge fund with a liquid net worth of about $10 million to $20
million, according to the court filing.  Kupersmith traded securities including shares of  Baidu
Inc. (BIDU) , the owner of  China ’s dominant search engine, and  CME Group
Inc. (CME) , the parent company of the  New York Mercantile Exchange ,
prosecutors said in the filing.  Failed to Settle  Starting in about October 2009, Kupersmith failed to settle
many of the trades, including orders to sell about 48,700 shares
of Baidu for $15 million that he failed to deliver, forcing two
of the brokerage firms to buy the stock on the open market and
lose more than $600,000, prosecutors said. Kupersmith also used
the personal information of a relative and a friend to open
additional accounts.  Kupersmith used the accounts to buy about $64 million worth
of securities, and made more than $1.2 million through the
illegal trades, according to a statement from Vance’s office.
The broker-dealers, which include Morgan Keegan & Co., William
Blair & Co. and JPMorgan Securities LLC, lost more than
$830,000, Vance’s office said.  Kupersmith also solicited investors to invest in a hedge
fund he claimed to control, telling them it had an annual return
of about 30 percent and that he had personally made more than $1
million in the past year, prosecutors said in the documents. He
told investors their principal was guaranteed, and told at least
one potential investor that he would get a return of about 43
percent every three months.  $500,000 Raised  Kupersmith raised about $500,000 for the non-existent hedge
fund, which he used to pay for flights, limos, luxury hotel
rooms and visits to adult entertainment clubs, as well as to
fund the investment scheme and make payments to other investors,
prosecutors said.  Kupersmith faces as long as 20 years in prison and a $5
million fine for each of the charges against him in New Jersey.
He also faces a civil suit filed by the SEC.  Levenson said he would take the case to trial in New York
if the proposed sentence attached to the plea deal carried
additional jail time.  “It’s a little iffy as to whether he committed the fraud
that was outlined in the indictment,” Levenson said.
“Essentially what he did was he exaggerated his net worth in
order to obtain credit with broker dealers.”  The New York case is People v. Kupersmith, 04360-2011, New
York state  Supreme Court  (Manhattan). The New Jersey cases are
U.S. v. Kupersmith, 11-mj-03750, and Securities and Exchange
Commission v. Kupersmith, 11-cv-06277, U.S. District Court,
District of New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  