-- India’s Investment Grade Rating at Risk as S&P Cuts Outlook
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2012-04-25T11:22:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/india-investment-grade-rating-at-risk-as-s-p-cuts-outlook-1-.html
India ’s sovereign credit outlook
was lowered to negative from stable by  Standard & Poor’s , taking
the nation a step closer to junk status and dealing a further
blow to Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s economic agenda.  “India’s investment and economic growth have slowed, and
its current-account deficit has widened,” S&P said in a
statement today, reaffirming its BBB- long-term India rating,
the lowest investment grade. “We are revising the outlook on
the long-term ratings on India to negative to reflect at least a
one-in-three likelihood of a downgrade.”  Bonds fell, stocks declined and the rupee pared gains as
S&P’s decision underscored rising concern that  Asia ’s third-
largest economy will fail to stem a growth slowdown and widening
budget and current-account deficits. Singh’s push to lure
investment has been hurt by corruption scandals, inflation and
political opposition to steps such as opening the retail
industry to foreign companies.  “This just lengthens the shadow that has been cast over the
India story,” said  Vishnu Varathan , an economist at Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd. in Singapore. “It raises the big fear of
losing the investment grade rating, and what that means for
financing costs and the efforts for fiscal consolidation.”  Bonds, Stocks and Rupee  The yield on the 8.79 percent note due November 2021 rose
seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 8.64 percent as
of 3:32 p.m. local time. The BSE India Sensitive Index  declined 
0.2 percent. The rupee pared earlier gains and was up 0.3
percent to 52.52 per dollar. It slumped 16 percent last year,
the most in Asia.  S&P said diminishing growth prospects, a deterioration in
trade performance or slow progress on fiscal reforms could lead
to a ratings cut. It expects the government “to face headwind in
implementing policy measures to improve its fiscal and
macroeconomic parameters in the near future, given the current
unfavorable political environment.”  There is no need to panic following S&P’s move, Finance
Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said in  New Delhi  today, adding
reforms will be on track and that he is confident  India’s
economy  will expand about 7 percent in the fiscal year through
March 31, 2013.  In last month’s annual budget, Mukherjee estimated India’s
fiscal deficit at 5.9 percent of gross domestic product in 2011-
2012, the widest in the so-called BRIC group of biggest  emerging
markets  that also includes Brazil, Russia and  China .  Record Borrowing  He proposed a cap on a subsidy program ranging from diesel
to fertilizers and raised service and excise taxes, seeking to
pare the gap to 5.1 percent of GDP this financial year. Funding
the shortfall requires record borrowing of 5.69 trillion rupees
($108 billion) in 2012-2013, the government estimates.  Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s Investors Service also grade
India one step above so-called junk status. Fitch yesterday
declined to comment on whether it plans to review or revise
India’s rating anytime soon and reiterated its BBB- grade, with
a stable outlook, on the nation’s long-term debt.  India’s  economic expansion  moderated to 6.1 percent in the
quarter ended Dec. 31, the slowest pace in almost three years,
as costlier credit hurt  consumer spending  and dented investment.
The slowdown sapped tax receipts even as subsidies and a job-
guarantee program for rural workers fanned spending.  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao cut the
benchmark  interest rate  by a greater-than-forecast half a
percentage point on April 17, to 8 percent, seeking to bolster
growth with the first reduction since 2009.  Lingering Price Pressures  At the same time, the Reserve Bank signaled that price
pressures might limit room for further cuts. India’s wholesale
prices rose 6.89 percent in March from a year earlier, giving it
the fastest BRIC inflation.  Indian companies seeking credit overseas may face higher
borrowing costs after S&P’s move, said  Madan Sabnavis , chief
economist at Credit Analysis & Research Ltd. in Mumbai. At the
same time, the nation’s long-term growth outlook should help
underpin investment flows, he said.  The Reserve Bank predicts Indian economic expansion of 7.3
percent in 2012-2013. The chance of a cut in India’s sovereign
rating is low partly because its economy is set to rebound in
the near term and given that the fiscal deficit is unlikely to
worsen substantially, said  Sonal Varma , an economist at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in Mumbai.  S&P said it may change India’s outlook or credit ratings
anytime in the next 24 months. The company said the ratings may
stabilize if the government takes steps to “reduce structural
fiscal deficits and to improve its investment climate.”  Challenging Period  Ratings changes aren’t necessarily accompanied by
corresponding moves in bond prices. Instead of falling in value
after S&P stripped the U.S. of the top AAA sovereign rating,
Treasuries rallied and the government’s borrowing costs fell to
record lows.  Singh’s administration is facing one of the most
challenging periods since taking office in 2004. Among the
setbacks was the suspension in December of plans to open India’s
retail industry to foreign companies such as Wal-Mart Stores
Inc.  Trade organizations have also said that businesses around
the world are re-evaluating investments in India because of
uncertainty over the nation’s tax laws following changes
proposed in the March 16 budget.  Today’s action by S&P “is a negative move and further
solidifies the macroeconomic risks India is facing,” said
 Rajeev Malik , senior economist at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets in
 Singapore . “Coming from the most conservative of the rating
agencies, it’s a wake-up call for the government to do something
meaningful soon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net ;
Unni Krishnan at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  