-- Ingersoll Goes Against Trend to Pay Down Debt: Corporate Finance
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2012-04-25T04:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/ingersoll-goes-against-trend-to-pay-down-debt-corporate-finance.html
At a time when companies are
increasingly favoring shareholders,  Ingersoll-Rand Plc (IR)  is
keeping bondholders happy by cutting $1 billion of its $3.6
billion of debt.  The maker of security systems and Trane air conditioners,
rated Baa1 by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB+ at  Standard &
Poor’s , retired $345 million of notes this month and plans to
repay $600 million of  debt  due in 2013. That would trim leverage
to a level qualifying Swords, Ireland-based Ingersoll-Rand for A
ratings, according to debt researcher CreditSights Inc.  The company is going against the shareholder-friendly trend
as investment-grade yields hover at record lows, pushing many
firms to fund stock repurchases with bonds. Net U.S.  corporate
debt  rose every quarter in 2010 and 2011 to $7.8 trillion from
$7.05 trillion, Federal Reserve data show. U.S. corporations
executed $489 billion in stock buybacks last year, the most
since the record $762 billion in 2007, according to data
compiled by Westport, Connecticut-based Birinyi Associates Inc.  Ingersoll-Rand is paying down obligations “to eventually
get a single-A rating,” said Anthony Valeri, a market
strategist at  LPL Financial  in  San Diego , which oversees $330
billion of assets. “That way they can refinance their debt. A
quick look at their debt profile shows a lot of 6 percent-plus
coupon bonds. That’s way above the current market.”  ‘Balanced Approach’  The difference between A and BBB rated yields reached 1.02
percentage points in February, the most since 2009, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show. Ingersoll-Rand bonds
trade at an average 151 basis-point premium to similar-maturity
Treasuries, closer to the 179 basis-point spread on A rated debt
than the 255 basis points of BBB securities, the data show.  “Our balanced approach continues to strengthen our balance
sheet and is important for long term stability and shareholder
value,” Misty Zelent, a spokeswoman for the company, wrote in
an e-mail. “This capital allocation strategy enables the
company to evaluate alternatives, including moving toward an
increased rating.”  Ingersoll-Rand’s  ratio  of debt to earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization could fall to 1.2 times
around the end of 2013 from the current leverage of 1.9,
according to an April 22 note from Kristina Regan, an analyst
for New York-based CreditSights. That would be “touching on A
credit metrics” and would put the firm “in a more favorable
position to refinance its 2014 debt maturity,” she wrote.  Credit Crisis  The company has $655 million of 9.5 percent notes that come
due in April 2014, Bloomberg data show. The debt traded April 17
at 115.2 cents on the dollar to yield 1.67 percent, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Ingersoll-Rand lost A rankings in 2008 during the financial
crisis. When Moody’s cut its rating, it cited $4 billion of debt
taken on in the $9.6 billion acquisition of Trane Inc. that
June.  Company executives told analysts in March that in 2008
“they were sitting with $4 billion of short-term debt and
dealing with refinancing needs during the credit crisis,” and
stronger-rated companies “were able to navigate that period
more gracefully and even perform acquisitions,” Regan said.  “Management conveyed at their analyst meeting that they
never want to take liquidity for granted,” Regan said in a
telephone interview. “Ingersoll-Rand seems to be focusing on
debt reduction to move up the credit spectrum so they don’t have
an issue when it comes to refinancing needs or if there was some
other unforeseen crisis down the road.”  CreditSights raised its rating on Ingersoll-Rand debt to
the equivalent of “hold” in its report, saying “deleveraging
the company’s balance sheet to single A metrics has taken a
priority to larger shareholder rewards like we have seen in the
past.”  ‘Best Choice’  Ingersoll-Rand had $1.16 billion of cash and near cash
items at the end of 2011, up from $1.01 billion a year earlier,
Bloomberg data  show .  The company repurchased 36 million shares
in 2011 and now has 298.7 million outstanding, and it plans to
buy as much as $400 million more in this year’s second half.  Free cash flow , money that can be used for stock buybacks
and dividends and for debt repurchases, is expected to be $1.1
billion this year, according to the CreditSights report.  “Their first priority has been buying back debt,” said
Edward Wheeler, a New York-based analyst with the Buckingham
Research Group, who rates the shares a “buy.” “Right now
that’s been their best choice,” he said in a telephone
interview.  Good Risk  Shares of the company rallied to $41.46 yesterday from
$26.48 in October, when the European debt crisis roiled global
markets. The stock dropped as low as $11.84 in March 2009 as the
 S&P 500 Index  bottomed during the worst financial crisis since
the Great Depression.  Ingersoll-Rand has a good risk profile “because of its
good market and geographic diversity, a variety of segments with
strong or major market positions, and products and services
where we foresee meaningful recurring revenues,” S&P said in a
Feb. 13 note by analysts John Sico and Dan Picciotto in  New
York . S&P “believes they have the capacity and the cash on hand
for debt repayment,” Sico said in a telephone interview
yesterday.  The main consideration for an S&P upgrade is “we want to
see them not only attain the ratios but sustain them,” he said.  “From our perspective, they have the flexibility to either
repay or refinance the upcoming maturities,” he said. “They do
generate good free  cash flow . What we expect is a balanced
approach to capital allocation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  