-- Mini Nude, Plucked Chicken Star in Ron Mueck London Show
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2012-04-25T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/mini-nude-plucked-chicken-star-in-ron-mueck-london-show.html
A middle-aged woman carries a huge
bundle of rough, scratchy-looking twigs clasped close to her
naked body. Every detail -- her toenails, her hair, the red
striations on her skin caused by the twigs -- is so convincing
that you could almost think she was alive.  Except that she isn’t realistic at all because she’s less
than half the size of a normal human being. This is “Woman with
Sticks” (2008), one of four pieces in a show of new work by the
sculptor Ron Mueck at  Hauser & Wirth   London , 23 Savile Row
(through May 26, prices start at 500,000 pounds or $807,100).  Four sculptures might not sound like many, but Mueck is the
reverse of prolific. This is billed, correctly, as his first
major exhibition in London for almost a decade. According to the
catalogue raisonne that accompanies the show, during those 10
years he has produced about 16 works, of which the quartet
presented here is the most recent.  Mueck, born in 1958, is the reclusive exception in the
generation of U.K. artists who shot to prominence in the 1990s.
For one thing, he isn’t British. He was born in  Melbourne ,
 Australia . In contrast to artists such as  Damien Hirst  and
Tracey Emin, who see a celebrity personality as part of the
modern artist’s role, Mueck is reluctant to give an interview.  Stanley the Snake  Also, he wasn’t aware he was an artist until well into his
career, which he began as a model-maker for Australian
children’s television, constructing such puppets as the Garden
Gnome, Ol’ Possum and Stanley the Snake.  He then moved to Britain and continued model-making until
in 1996 he came to the attention of  Charles Saatchi , who
declared Mueck a contemporary artist and commissioned new works
from him.  Mueck’s “Dead Dad” (1996-97) was the sensation of the
1997 “Sensation” exhibition of Saatchi’s collection at the
 Royal Academy  (and subsequently in  New York ). It was a
representation -- at once mesmerizingly naturalistic and
surreally small -- of an elderly male corpse.  Since then Mueck has produced a sequence of works with
those characteristics: stunning verisimilitude, disorienting
shifts of scale.  The new pieces include “Youth” (2009), a 2-foot statue of
a young black man, fashionably dressed in jeans that droop to
reveal his underwear. He lifts his T-shirt to gaze in blank
astonishment at his chest, where a fresh wound between his ribs
oozes blood.  Plastic Float  “Drift” (2009) is a middle-aged man lying spread-eagled
on a plastic float in the middle of a huge blue wall, clad only
in a pair of floral swimming trunks and dark glasses. The
naturalism extends to the glistening sweat on his tanning skin.
He is just 46 1/2 inches high.  Only “Still Life” (2009) approaches ordinary human
dimensions, but this is a sculpture of a plucked and eviscerated
chicken, hung up by its feet, every nuance of translucent yellow
fat and mottled flesh lovingly reproduced.  This is Mueck as we know him -- except that there is an
almost subliminal thread of symbolism running through the show.  “Youth” has been stabbed just as Christ was on the cross;
the man on his sun bed lies arms outstretched as if crucified;
so too does the chicken, only like St. Peter upside down.
“Woman With Sticks” could be carrying material for her
martyrdom by fire.  Hirst, too, has toyed with pious imagery. Is this what
happens to YBAs when they grow middle-aged? Do they get
religion?  Information:  http://hauserwirth.com .  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include:  Rich Jaroslovsky  on
 Kindle ;  Jason Harper  on the  Ford Taurus SHO .  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford, in London, at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/martingayford .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 