-- Mining Companies in Global Talent War
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-04-25T20:46:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/mining-companies-in-global-talent-war.html
Bruno Rizzuto’s father, Cesare, was
19 when he got off a boat in Halifax from southern  Italy  in
1951. With no coat, and “5 cents in his pocket” he headed for
the gold mines of Timmins, Ontario, where he worked underground
for 41 years.  Six decades later Rizzuto, a Calgary-based recruiter, is
looking for people like his father, with a proposal to bring 10
to 20 miners to  Canada  from South America as companies scour the
world to find workers for the latest mining boom.  “There are just simply not the people there, and I think
it’s going to be the Achilles heel of the industry,” said
Rizzuto, 38, managing partner at  Cadre Staffing Inc.  “A lot of
these projects will not be able to get off the ground because
they will not have either the management capacity to do so or
the operational workforce.”  Mining companies such as  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  are struggling
to fill vacancies amid a  skills shortage  that stretches from the
iron-ore pits of Western Australia to Chile’s copper mines and
the gold deposits of  Quebec . Producers of commodities including
gold, copper and coal are building mines to feed demand from
countries like  China  just as geologists, engineers and miners
begin to retire en masse, pushing up wages and crimping
productivity.  Lost Generation  Enrollment in mining graduate programs slumped in the 1980s
and 1990s after commodity prices fell and hiring stalled. The
sector also lost people to the technology boom from 1999 to
2001, said Aaron Regent, chief executive officer of Barrick, the
world’s biggest gold-mining company by revenue.  “At that point we were basically in a depression as an
industry; we were an irrelevant industry,” Regent said in an
interview. “So we lost a generation of people.”  About 61,550 to 71,740 mining workers in Canada, or more
than a third of the industry, may retire in the next 10 years,
according to  forecasts  by the Mining Industry Human Resources
Council.  The council estimates Canada’s mining industry will need
about 141,540 new hires until 2021 if activity continues to
accelerate. Even if growth slows and hiring recedes, the sector
will have to find 112,020 new workers to replace retirees and
other departures in the next 10 years, according to council
estimates.  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM) , based in  Greenwood Village , Colorado,
and the world’s second-largest gold miner by revenue, expects
about 500 mine engineers will retire in the next five to 10
years, Chief Executive Officer Richard O’Brien said in a
Bloomberg Television interview March 27. The company currently
has about 650 mine engineering positions.  All Levels  “We could hire every mining graduate in America and we
couldn’t replace them,” O’Brien said. “Whether it’s northern
 Nevada , Australia,  Ghana ,  Indonesia , we are looking for people
at all levels of employment.”  Wages have risen with demand. In Canada, average weekly
wages for workers in the mining, quarrying, oil and gas
industries, the country’s highest paid industry, rose 8.2
percent  to C$1,842.59 ($1,846.28) in January from a year ago,
 according  to  Statistics Canada . That compares with a national
average of C$888.89, which was 2 percent higher than a year
earlier.  Compensation packages for skilled mining professionals in
Canada have doubled in five years, said Chris Stafford,
president of Toronto-based  C.J. Stafford & Associates,  which
specializes in recruitment for the mining, engineering and
construction industries.  Mining companies are building large in-house recruiting
departments, and using new sweeteners to find and keep skilled
employees, he said.  Doubled His Salary  “That ranges from signing-on bonuses, which were unheard
of 10 years ago, to all types of other bonuses, incentives and
 stock options ,” Stafford said. Skilled mining professionals are
being offered sign-on bonuses of as much as 20 percent of
salaries, he said.  Geologist Marc-Andre Brulotte left a position at a
consulting company in  Montreal  in December for a job in
Queensland,  Australia . He almost doubled his salary.  “It’s a really good time to be a qualified professional,
there are lots of good opportunities for us,” Brulotte said.  “It’s another story for the fresh out of school geologists
or engineers, they will get a job for sure,” Brulotte said.
“But chances are they will not get well trained, simply because
there won’t be any experienced staff to teach them how to
work.”  Projects in the industry will take longer to complete and
costs will be higher because inexperienced workers are less
productive and need to be supervised, Barrick’s Regent said.  Supply-Chain Guy  “It’s not just wage inflation, but turnover and
productivity: they all have a knock-on effect in terms of what
your overall labor cost profile looks like,” he said in a Feb.
16 interview.  Barrick has a 25 percent turnover rate at its Australian
operations, Regent said.  “We had a supply-chain guy, a young guy, who was making
$100,000 a year and he just got bid away for $150,000,” he
said. “Labor is a big issue.”  Barrick said in July the price estimate for its Pascua-Lama
project, which straddles the Chile-Argentina border, had jumped
to as much as $5 billion from an earlier forecast of $3.6
billion due to higher labor, equipment and materials expenses.  Gold futures for June delivery slid less than 0.1 percent
to $1,643.20 on the Comex in  New York  today. The metal has
climbed 4.7 percent this year.  Poaching Mentality  Copper Fox Metals Inc. (CUU) , studying a copper and gold mine in
northwest British Columbia, said March 19 it would miss a month-
end target for a feasibility study on its Schaft Creek project
because of “manpower shortages” at the contractor it hired.  “I would say that it’s completely universal from company
to company, whether it be a junior or an intermediate or a
major, I think there’s a general delay in terms of shortages,”
said Shane Uren, the Vancouver-based company’s vice-president of
environment and permitting.  For its part,  North American Palladium Ltd. (PDL) , a precious-
metals company with operations in Quebec and Ontario, has bought
advertising in the regional airport in Thunder Bay, Ontario,
which serves several fly-in, fly-out operations in the region.  “There is clearly a bit of a poaching mentality in the
sector,” Trent Mell, corporate development and human resources
vice-president, said in an interview. “We’re really fighting a
global war.”  New Rules  Canada will introduce new rules to make it easier for
skilled tradesmen to enter the country, Citizenship and
Immigration Minister  Jason Kenney  said April 10. The changes
will help address growing labor shortages in the natural
resources and construction sectors, he said.  Rizzuto, the recruiter, said his proposal to bring a group
of miners from  South America  is more likely to succeed if
friends and family move together, he said.  “What the Canadians are selling is the prospect of
Canadian citizenship, education for their kids, social benefits,
health care,” he said.  Still, the struggle for workers is ongoing, he said. Mining
still isn’t seen as a “glamorous” profession.  “You can make good money, six-figures money, but how many
kids are coming out of school today saying ‘Hey, I want to be a
miner’?” he said. “I’m proof of that. My father, the last
thing he wanted me to be was a miner.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Thorpe at 
 jthorpe23@bloomberg.net  