-- International Ferro Metals Rises on Prices Gains, Power Deal
-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 2012-04-25T15:56:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/international-ferro-metals-rises-on-prices-gains-power-deal-1-.html
International Ferro Metals Ltd. (IFL) , a
producer of ferrochrome in  South Africa , gained the most in
seven weeks in  London  trading after higher metal prices and an
electricity buyback deal helped make it profitable last month.  The shares jumped 11 percent, the most since March 8, to 17
pence by the close today.  The producer said today it would restart in June two
furnaces taken offline in March and April under a financially
beneficial power buyback agreement with utility Eskom Holdings
SOC Ltd. The shutdown of an estimated 24 of 52 furnaces in South
Africa will have a significant effect on the market, the Sydney-
based company said in a statement.  “IFM will come out of the Eskom-enforced shutdowns in a
strong position,” Numis Securities Ltd., which recommends
investors buy the stock, said in an e-mailed note to clients.
“There is no change to our positive view that the shares remain
too cheap.”  Industry stocks of ferrochrome are expected to drop during
the second quarter and to remain relatively low for the rest of
2012, the company said.  International Ferro Metals said it would welcome the
introduction of a chrome-ore export duty in South Africa.  Chinese Production  “There is significantly more interest from government’s
perspective for looking at and considering a duty,” Chief
Executive Officer Christiaan Jordaan said by phone from London.
“We support the initiative. It would have a significant impact
on the alloy industry.”  Ferrochrome production in South Africa, the biggest maker
of the metal used in stainless steel to prevent corrosion, is
being displaced by  China , which imports 42 percent of its ore,
according to  Merafe Resources Ltd. (MRF)  South African chrome-ore
exports to China increased 51 percent to about 4.7 million
metric tons last year.  International Ferro sold 52,930 metric tons of ferrochrome
in the quarter ended March 31, an increase of 9 percent from a
year earlier, it said. Chrome ore sales were “substantially
higher” at 59,226 metric tons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  