-- Intel Expects to Be ‘Big Player’ in Phones Within Five Years
-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2012-04-25T20:24:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/intel-targets-big-number-in-mobile-phone-market-cfo-says.html
Intel Corp. (INTC) , whose chips are
debuting in smartphones for the first time this week, expects to
become a “big player” in the market over the next five years,
following more than a decade of failed attempts.  “Intel doesn’t go into markets to be a small player,”
Chief Financial Officer Stacy Smith said in an interview today
at Bloomberg headquarters in New York. “It’s a billion-unit
market, so there’s huge opportunity for us.”  Intel has announced five customer wins for its phone-chip
designs, with the first device going on sale in India. The
company is aiming to parlay its dominance in PCs -- where it has
more than 80 percent of the market -- into orders for
smartphones, which are increasingly taking on the functions of
computers. In the past, Intel hasn’t been able to gain ground
against wireless-chip rivals such as  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)   This week’s debut means Intel is finally making headway in
the market, Smith said.  “As of a week ago, we had zero share,” he said. “As of
this week, it’s zero-point-something, because the first phones
are selling.”  While phone chips won’t be material to Intel’s results in
2012, the company expects to have “meaningful sales” by next
year at this time, Smith said. “And five years from now, we
want to be a significant portion of the market,” he said.  ‘Big Number’  Smith declined to quantify what would be significant for
the Santa Clara, California-based company, beyond “a big
number.”  Intel  shares  rose 2 percent to $27.86 at the close in New
York. They have gained 15 percent this year.  India ’s  Lava International Ltd.  became the first company to
offer an Intel-based phone, rolling out a model called the XOLO
X900 that runs Google Inc.’s Android software. Intel announced
the partnership in February, saying Lava would sell both phones
and tablet computers using its processors. The XOLO X900 went on
sale in India on April 23.  France Telecom SA’s Orange,  Motorola Mobility Holdings
Inc. (MMI) ,  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  and China’s ZTE Corp. also plan to use
the chips. Intel had previously announced partnerships with
Nokia Oyj and LG Electronics Inc., but those deals didn’t result
in phones coming to market.  Taking on Qualcomm  Qualcomm, based in  San Diego , is the biggest maker of
baseband modems -- the chips that connect phones to cellular
networks. It also makes applications processors, which run the
software on handsets.  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN)  and Nvidia Corp.
compete in the market as well.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , meanwhile, designs its own application
processors, which are manufactured by Samsung Electronics Co.
Intel is offering both application processors and baseband
chips.  Mobile-phone shipments are estimated to reach 1.7 billion
in 2012, a gain of 8.2 percent from 2011, according to IDC.
Smartphone shipments, a subset of the mobile-phone market, will
surge almost 34 percent, the research firm predicts.  That’s a faster pace than the PC market, which remains
Intel’s main source of revenue. Worldwide PC shipments will
increase 4.4 percent this year to 368 million units, according
to  Gartner Inc. (IT)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Jinks in  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  