-- Iran Cyber Attack Oil Industry Contained, Official Says
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-04-25T15:28:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/iran-cyber-attack-oil-industry-contained-official-says.html
A cyber attack that targeted  Iran ’s
crude industry and caused computer systems at the Oil Ministry
and other related state-owned businesses to crash has been
“fully contained,” a government official said.  “All operational activities of the oil industry are
following their natural course at the moment,” Iran’s deputy
oil minister for engineering affairs, Hamdollah Mohammadnejad,
told the state-run  Mehr  news agency. “The software attack has
been fully contained and controlled with the help of experts
three days after it hit.”  None of the data of the Oil Ministry were accessed,
Mohammadnejad said, adding that costs incurred as a result of
the April 22 attack were “minimal.”  Iranian officials said earlier this week that the malware
hadn’t affected oil production or exports, though they said that
operational sites, including some of the Persian Gulf country’s
main oil terminals, had been disconnected from the Internet in
an effort to prevent infiltration.  The attack was at least the second directed against Iran’s
government-related computer systems in two years.  In 2010, a malicious software known as Stuxnet affected
computer systems and several centrifuges used in  Iran’s nuclear
program  to enrich uranium, Iranian officials said at the time.
Stuxnet may have been part of a campaign to disrupt Iranian
nuclear installations, international computer-security
researchers have said.  Economic Sanctions  Iran, the second-largest crude-oil producer in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries after  Saudi
Arabia , is subject to sanctions imposed by the U.S. and the
European Union seeking to force it to curb its nuclear program.
An EU oil ban against Iranian oil is set to go into effect on
July 1.  The latest attack comes a week after Iran and six world
powers ended a 15-month stalemate on discussions about the
country’s atomic program. Iran and the five permanent United
Nations Security Council members -- the U.S., Britain,  China ,
 France , and  Russia  -- plus  Germany  have agreed to reconvene for
talks in Baghdad on May 23.  Iran’s uranium-enrichment program is at the center of the
dispute between the U.S., its allies and Iran. Iran denies
allegations it’s trying to build atomic weapons and says it is
producing uranium to use as fuel in nuclear reactors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  