-- Iran Weighs Halting Nuclear Expansion to Avert EU Oil Ban
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-04-25T19:32:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/iran-considers-halting-nuclear-expansion-to-avert-eu-oil-embargo.html
Iran  is considering a Russian
proposal to halt the expansion of its nuclear program in order
to avert new sanctions, the country’s envoy in Moscow said.  “We need to study this proposal and to establish on what
basis it has been made,” Ambassador Mahmoud-Reza Sajjadi said
in an interview at the Iranian embassy in Moscow today. The
Russian plan, announced by Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov last week, would let Iran avoid a European Union ban on
its crude that is scheduled to come into force in July.  Iran will ensure it maintains its right to produce nuclear
energy, Sajjadi said. The U.S. and European Union allege Iran is
seeking to build a bomb, not just make fuel for electricity
production and medical research, as the country maintains.  The EU is planning on July 1 to impose an embargo on crude
from Iran, which accounts for about 4 percent of the world’s
supply, as it works with the U.S. to ratchet up pressure on the
Persian Gulf state.  Oil prices  retreated from a one-week high,
dropping more than $1 today on the report.  In  Washington , State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland 
dismissed Sajjadi’s remarks, saying the Iranian is “not a
central player” in international talks over  Iran’s nuclear
program . “Frankly, what’s most important is what Iran says and
does at the negotiating table,” Nuland said at briefing with
journalists.  The U.S. and EU have imposed financial sanctions on Iran
and are pressuring nations including  China  to buy less of its
oil as they seek to curtail its nuclear activities.  Mutual Concessions  Ryabkov, who leads Prime Minister and President-elect
Vladimir Putin’s delegation to the Iran talks, said the Russian
proposal would be the first in a series of mutual concessions
designed to end in an accord that would remove suspicions about
Iranian intent regarding atomic weapons.  Iran might also be willing to ratify the so-called
Additional Protocol, a step urged by the  United Nations Security
Council  that includes more thorough inspections of Iranian
facilities, as part of a wider settlement, Sajjadi said.  Under the Russian proposal, Iran would stop building
centrifuges, machines used to enrich uranium, and mothball ones
that haven’t been put into use yet.  “At that stage, as part of the step-by-step approach, the
other side could announce that it will refrain from introducing
new sanctions,” Ryabkov said April 17 after the latest round of
talks in Istanbul between Iran and the five permanent Security
Council members -- the U.S., U.K., China, Russia and  France  --
plus  Germany . Those talks were the first Iran held with the so-
called 5+1 group in 15 months. The next round, in  Baghdad , is
scheduled for May 23.  The EU will complicate efforts to resolve the feud if the
27-nation bloc goes ahead with the oil ban, Sajjadi said.  ‘Not Serious’  “If they actually impose the embargo, it will mean that
they’re not serious about resolving the nuclear issue,” the
Iranian ambassador said. “How can they want to pursue nuclear
talks on the one hand and introduce sanctions on the other? What
meaning will these talks have then?”  The UN’s nuclear watchdog said in February that the number
of centrifuges at Iran’s underground Natanz facility had grown
14 percent to 9,156 from 8,000 in November, of which 8,808 were
operating. Iran began enriching uranium with more than 300
centrifuges at a different underground site, Fordo, the
International Agency for Atomic Energy said in a Feb. 24 report.  The IAEA report said Iran had tripled monthly output of
enriched uranium from November to 31 pounds (14 kilograms). The
country may be able to produce bomb-grade uranium in a matter of
months,  Olli Heinonen , the IAEA’s former top inspector for Iran,
said on April 12.  ‘A Big Step’  “The proposed plan will keep the capacity to enrich
uranium at the current level,” said Elena Sokova,  executive
director  at the Center for Disarmament & Non-Proliferation in
Vienna, by e-mail. “Thus it helps to avoid the expansion of
enrichment but not to scale it back. In other words, no buildup
of the program in exchange for no new sanctions.”  If Iran then ratified the Additional Protocol to the
Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty it would be “a big step
forward as it would allow for much better transparency of the
Iranian nuclear program and for the IAEA to carry out rather
intrusive inspections,” Sokova said.  The Iranian nuclear program is an “imaginary threat,”
Sajjadi said, adding that he was astonished by comments made by
Nikolai Makarov, head of the Russian military’s General Staff,
warning about the risk of a nuclear-armed Iran in an interview
with state broadcaster RT.  Won’t Benefit  Russia  won’t benefit by cooperating with the U.S. and
 Europe , and the threatened EU oil embargo will damage the world
economy by squeezing global supplies, the ambassador said.  Iran’s oil production, currently about 3.4 million barrels
a day, may decline by as much as 950,000 barrels a day by the
middle of this year as EU and U.S. embargoes take effect, the
 International Energy Agency  said in its monthly Oil Market
Report on April 12.  Crude oil for June delivery slipped 22 cents to $103.33 a
barrel at 11:27 a.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The
contract earlier touched $104.49, the highest intraday level
since April 18. Brent oil traded 31 cents lower at $117.83 in
 London  after reaching $119.25.  Tensions over the Iranian program, including  Israel  and the
U.S. leaving open the possibility of a military attack, helped
drive Brent crude prices to about $125 a barrel last month, the
highest level in more than 3 1/2 years. Prices fell more than 2
percent on the next trading day after the April 14 talks in
Istanbul, which the U.S. and EU said made progress.  “There are two ways we can proceed after the Istanbul
talks,” said Sajjadi. “Either the West understands that it’s
pointless to use the language of force with Iran or their
flexibility is a temporary phenomenon. I hope the first is true
as we would like to see a resolution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net 
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  