-- Ireland Said to Near Approval on Permanent TSB Loans Split
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-04-25T16:23:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/ireland-said-to-near-approval-on-permanent-tsb-loans-split.html
Ireland’s bailout partners are
nearing agreement to allow state-owned  Irish Life & Permanent
Plc (IPM)  to move some of its loss-making home loans into a so-called
bad bank unit, according to two people familiar with the matter.  The transfer would mark a first step toward reorganizing
the Dublin-based bank, Permanent TSB, once the country’s biggest
mortgage lender, according to the people, who declined to be
named as the talks are not yet complete. Finance Minister
Michael Noonan may announce an accord as soon as tomorrow as
European and International Monetary Fund officials complete
their latest Irish aid program review.  “The authorities will agree a way forward for PTSB by the
end of April 2012,” the  Finance Ministry  said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “The 6th review of the program will
conclude tomorrow and a press conference will be held and the
changes agreed” to the program will be outlined.  Irish authorities are seeking to strip out distressed and
loss-making mortgages from Permanent TSB and  Allied Irish Banks
Plc (ALBK)  to clean up their balance sheets and ultimately help sell
them. Irish Bank Resolution Corp. Chief Executive Officer Mike Aynsley said last month he is in talks that may lead to the
company taking on residential mortgages from other banks.  Some 25 percent of Permanent TSB’s 25.4 billion-euro ($33.6
billion) Irish residential mortgage book was classified as
either in arrears or impaired, according to its annual report,
published April 2.  The state took control of Irish Life & Permanent after
injecting 2.7 billion euros into the company in July to help
Permanent TSB meet regulatory  capital requirements .  Irish Life spokesman  Ray Gordon  and Central Bank spokesman
Peadar Hayes declined to comment on the discussions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  