-- Is ‘Fiscal Cliff’ a Keynesian Topography Mistake?
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2012-04-25T23:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/is-fiscal-cliff-a-keynesian-topography-mistake-.html
Never let it be said that the
financial community has a deaf ear for language. The same folks
who saw “green shoots” after the “soft patch” are now
focusing their collective attention on the “ fiscal cliff .”  For those of you unfamiliar with this topographical
reference, the fiscal cliff refers not to a physical precipice
but to the metaphorical one off which the  U.S. economy  will fall
at the start of 2013 unless Congress acts. An array of tax cuts
and transfer payments are scheduled to expire on or about Jan.
1. Among them, the lower  marginal  income,  capital-gains  and
dividend tax rates, enacted under President  George W. Bush  and
already extended twice; the two-percentage-point reduction in
the employee portion of the payroll tax; and  extended
unemployment benefits .  At the same time, an automatic $1.2 trillion cut in
discretionary spending (both defense and non-defense), as
dictated by the  Budget Control Act of 2011 , will kick in because
the supercommittee appointed to find such savings punted. All
told, it’s being advertised as something akin to, well, a “100-
year flood.”  By some estimates, the combined force of these tax and
spending measures will slash  several percentage points  off
growth in 2013 and 2014.  Not everyone is buying that analysis.  Stephen Stanley ,
chief economist at Pierpont Securities in  Stamford ,  Connecticut ,
says a share of the fiscal-cliff-hanging is based on a flawed
Keynesian perspective that “all austerity is bad for the
economy.”  In Name Only  Under current law, the  Congressional Budget Office  projects
a 2013 federal deficit of $585 billion following four years of
trillion-dollar shortfalls. That would shrink  federal spending 
to 22.5 percent of gross domestic product, hardly draconian and
well above the historical average of about 19.5 percent.  To Keynesians, a half-trillion dollars of  government
spending  may look inadequate to support economic growth. To
followers of  Milton Friedman , it’s a half-trillion of resources
freed up to be used more efficiently by the private sector.  And as for the $1.2 trillion  sequestration , it is over a
10-year period and isn’t really a cut. It’s merely a reduction
in the projected growth of spending. Stanley says he “isn’t
losing sleep over the prospect of modest spending cuts in
2013.”  Those who are should forget model-based forecasts using a
large spending multiplier. What we care about are the real-world
effects. If there was little or no impact from the government’s
fiscal initiatives, it’s hard to argue their reversal will send
the economy over the cliff.  Stanford University economist  John Taylor  has looked at the
data on the $831 billion fiscal stimulus enacted under President
 Barack Obama  in 2009 and found little empirical evidence that
the “temporary and targeted Keynesian packages” of increased
government spending, transfer payments and tax rebates helped
the economy or increased growth in any significant or sustained
way. No surprise there. That’s what Friedman and Franco Modigliani taught us. People make spending and saving decisions
based on their expected income over a  lifetime .  It turns out that state and local governments used their
grants from the 2009 fiscal stimulus to reduce borrowing and
increase transfer payments, not to invest in infrastructure,
according to Taylor. Ditto the federal government, which boosted
infrastructure investment by only 0.05 percent of GDP and
consumption by 0.14 percent in the peak quarter.  Taylor gives a similar thumbs-down to Bush’s 2001 and 2008
tax rebates, which raised  disposable personal income  without
much of a parallel increase in spending. Obama’s  payroll tax 
“holiday” -- the choice of words screams “temporary” --
yielded minimal results, as well.  Temporarily Permanent  More worrisome than the modest reduction in the growth of
spending, should it ever transpire, is the expiration of the
Bush tax cuts. The reduction in marginal income-tax rates to 35
percent from 39.6 percent and in the rate on capital gains and
dividends to 15 percent for top earners, coincided with a period
of unimpressive growth for the U.S. economy. Perhaps the
increase won’t cause too much damage. After all, marginal tax
rates affect labor supply over a lifetime, not necessarily in
the short run, according to Nobel laureate  Edward Prescott .  Taylor, for one, thinks the Bush tax cuts, if allowed to
expire, will have a significant impact -- in large part because
they will be viewed as permanent. (Kind of like the Bush tax
cuts?)  At least the direction, not the magnitude, is permanent.
Unless Congress gets serious about structural  tax reform  --
about increasing  revenues  by closing loopholes and lowering
rates -- income-tax rates are headed much higher. The Social
Security Trustees  report  this week was another reminder that the
clock is ticking on entitlement reform. Last year, benefits paid
to retirees exceeded non-interest income for the second
consecutive year. The cash-flow deficit will continue through
the 75-year forecast period, according to the program’s
trustees. The  trust fund  will be exhausted by 2033, three years
earlier than projected a year ago.  Talk about a fiscal cliff. Twenty years may be too long a
period to inspire our short-term-oriented lawmakers to action.
But if you want to worry about a looming rock formation, it
should be the one in 2033, not 2013.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  saving Social Security 
and  dealing with China ;  Noah Feldman  on  Arizona immigration
arguments ;  Ezra Klein  on  money and politics ;  Susan Crawford  on
 cyber protection ; Steven Neil Kaplan on  inequality and
unemployment ; Jared Diamond on the roots of  Japan’s economic
malaise .  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  