-- Israel’s Iron Dome Gets Boost in U.S. Panel’s Budget Plan
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-04-25T20:53:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/israel-s-iron-dome-gets-boost-in-u-s-panel-s-budget-plan.html
Israel ’s Iron Dome missile-defense
system stands to gain as much as $680 million in U.S. aid under
a proposal by a congressional panel.  A subcommittee of the U.S. House Armed Services Committee
is seeking the funding from 2012 to 2015 for the system built by
Rafael Advanced Defense Systems Ltd., according to documents
released today. The House panel is starting to write the 2013
defense authorization bill to set military policy and spending
targets for the fiscal year starting Oct. 1.  President  Barack Obama  didn’t request any money for the
Israeli anti-rocket weapon program in his budget proposal in
February. In March, the Pentagon said it intended to seek funds
to help Israel buy more Iron Dome equipment.  “During the rocket attacks earlier this month, the Iron
Dome system played a critical role in Israel’s security,”
Pentagon spokesman  George Little  said last month. “When nearly
300 rockets and mortars were fired at southern Israel, Iron Dome
intercepted over 80 percent of the targets it engaged, saving
many civilian lives.”  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  has faced questions from
both Democratic and Republican lawmakers about the Obama
administration’s funding commitments to U.S.-Israel missile
defense cooperation, including the Iron Dome system designed to
intercept short-range rockets and mortar rounds fired at Israeli
cities, such as those launched by Palestinian militants from
Gaza.  The funds backed by the House panel would be in addition to
$205 million authorized last year to buy more of the Iron Dome
systems.  Lawmakers also urged the director of the U.S. Missile
Defense Agency to ensure that “prior to disbursing additional
funds on Iron Dome,” the U.S. has the “appropriate rights” to
the technology and explores opportunities to co-produce the
system with Israel. Closely held Rafael, based in Haifa, Israel,
says on its website that it was started as part of Israel’s
Ministry of Defense and incorporated in 2002.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  