-- Litigation Fatigue Cited in Apple, Microsoft Patent Fight
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-04-25T16:49:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/litigation-fatigue-cited-in-apple-microsoft-patent-fight.html
As  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and
 Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI)  keep trying to prove who
violated each other’s patents, the companies may be motivated to
prevent a possible ban on imports of Xboxes and IPhones.  Apple Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook , in the wake of a
preliminary finding yesterday that it infringed one of four
Motorola Mobility smartphone patents, said the company would
“highly prefer to settle versus battle” over patents.  Cook’s comments follow remarks by  Google Inc. (GOOG)  CEO  Larry Page , who called the spate of litigation over smartphones a
“sad thing” in a Bloomberg Businessweek interview published
April 4.  “It’s getting to the point where it is now seriously in
the way of business,” Victor Siber, former chief intellectual
property counsel for  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  who’s
now with Baker & Hostetler LLP, said today. “I don’t think
these companies are run by their lawyers. The CEOs will
eventually say, enough of this.”  Lawsuits have spread across four continents as companies
vie for a greater share of a market for smartphones that
researcher Gartner Inc. said rose 47 percent in the fourth
quarter.  The total market for mobile devices, which includes tablet
computers and e-readers, is projected to reach $360 billion this
year, said  Carl Howe , an analyst with  Yankee Group , a Boston-
based advisory firm. Consumers spend about $1.05 trillion a year
on related costs including monthly phone bills on their devices,
he said.  ‘A Big Deal’  “When we say this is a big deal, that this is revolution
in the making, it really is,” Howe said. “It’s 2 percent of
the global economy.”  A U.S. International Trade Commission judge said Apple
products including the iPad and iPhone infringe a Motorola
Mobility patent, while another said the Xbox infringed four
patents. Both determinations announced this week are subject to
review by the six-member commission, which can block the Asia-
made products from entering the U.S.  A victory at the trade agency may give Motorola Mobility --
and its planned purchaser Google -- leverage in ending lawsuits,
as Apple and Microsoft can’t afford to stop selling the Xbox,
iPhone and iPad. Apple is appealing a loss in an ITC case it
filed against Motorola Mobility.  “At the end of the day, companies that have a lot of money
are going to be reapportioning who has how much,” said David Long, a patent lawyer with Dow Lohnes in Washington who
specializes in telecommunications inventions. “The question is
how they get there.”  Steve Jobs  Vow  Apple filed the first large-scale patent case over
smartphone technology in March 2010 with a case against  HTC
Corp. (2498)  The legal fights have expanded to include smartphones and
tablets using Google’s Android operating system, Apple’s
products and Microsoft’s Xbox video-gaming system.  Apple’s first strike reflected a pledge by the late Steve Jobs, as told in his authorized biography last year, that he
would “spend every penny” of the company’s cash to prove that
Android’s features were copied from the iPhone and iPad.  In the interview with Google’s Page published this month,
he said the legal wrangling was taking its toll, with “a lot of
money going to lawyers and things, instead of building great
products for users.”  After this week’s rulings, the next step in both cases is
for Microsoft and Apple to petition the commission with
arguments they said will undermine Motorola Mobility’s case.
Microsoft and Apple have said they will challenge Motorola
Mobility’s right to seek import bans on the patents, as well as
whether there was infringement and if the patents are valid.  More Arguments Pending  Microsoft, based in Redmond,  Washington , and Cupertino,
California-based Apple say requests from Motorola Mobility that
they pay 2.25 percent of the consumer price of products that
incorporate standards set by industry groups isn’t reasonable.
It filed a federal lawsuit accusing Motorola Mobility of
breaching its obligation to license its patents on fair terms.  A judge in Seattle is scheduled to hear arguments on
Microsoft’s claims on May 7. Apple has its own breach-of-
contract suit against Motorola Mobility pending in federal court
in Madison,  Wisconsin .  The patent found to be infringed “covers industry-standard
technology which Motorola has refused to license to Apple on
reasonable terms,”  Kristin Huguet , a spokeswoman for Apple,
said in an interview.  Microsoft said it was confident “the commission will
ultimately rule in Microsoft’s favor in this case and that
Motorola will be held to its promise to make its standard
essential patents available on fair and reasonable terms.”  ‘Opportunity for Settlement’  The trade agency is reviewing a judge’s findings that
Motorola Mobility’s Android phones infringed one Microsoft
patent and not six others.  Motorola Mobility, based in Libertyville,  Illinois , said
that Microsoft didn’t submit a counteroffer and instead filed a
breach-of-contract suit in federal court in  Seattle . It said in
a court filing that Apple “refuses to negotiate for and will
not accept a license to Motorola’s declared-essential patents.”  The legal arguments show that any settlement will take some
time to negotiate, said Edward Weisz of Cozen O’Connor in  New
York , a patent lawyer who specializes in communications.  “Every other week, some big player is buying up a big
chunk of patents or licensing a big chunk of patents,” Weisz
said. “I don’t see it ending it too soon. The products are
still hot, there’s still a lot of money to be made.”  Settlements are inevitable, he said. “As the big players
become more and more armed with chunks of patents in this area,
and some of these are pioneering patents that go back years,
you’ll see more opportunity for settlement and cross-
licensing,” he said.  The case against Apple is In the Matter of Wireless
Communication Devices, Portable Music and Data Processing
Devices, Computers and Components Thereof, 337-745, and the case
against Microsoft is In the Matter of Gaming and Entertainment
Consoles, 337-752, both U.S. International Trade Commission
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  