-- J&J CEO Gorsky Says Company Will Grow While Rivals Shrink
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-04-26T13:57:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/j-j-ceo-gorsky-says-company-will-grow-while-rivals-shrink.html
When  Alex Gorsky  takes over as
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s chief executive officer today, he won’t be
shedding operations like his peers at  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Abbott
Laboratories. (ABT)  He’s looking to get bigger.  Gorsky sees value in being a large, diversified company and
said he has no plans to sell any of J&J’s businesses. He expects
to use some of company’s $14 billion in  cash  to do deals,
focusing on medical devices such as heart valves and
acquisitions that will expand sales in  China  and other  emerging
markets , he said.  “When there are large opportunities that we think can give
us some strategic advantage, we will obviously take a look,”
Gorsky, 51, said in a telephone interview. “We are committed to
being diversified across the whole health-care continuum.”  Gorsky will officially takes over as CEO today of the
world’s second-largest seller of health-care products during the
 New Brunswick , New Jersey-based company’s annual meeting. He
steps into the role as J&J’s image has been tarnished by recalls
of artificial hips and over-the-counter drugs; safety concerns
over its vaginal mesh products that spurred hundreds of
lawsuits; and more than $1.1 billion in fines over the marketing
of schizophrenia treatment Risperdal.  The interview yesterday represents Gorsky’s first public
comments since he was named CEO in February, replacing William Weldon, who ran the company since 2002.  ‘Disappointed’ With Quality  A former army captain and endurance athlete, Gorsky said he
is “disappointed” with the quality issues that led to the
recall of hundreds of millions of packets of Tylenol, Motrin,
Benadryl and other over-the-counter consumer products.  His focus is on getting those  products  back on market
shelves this year and next, he said. J&J has made organizational
changes that put new systems in place to prevent future recalls,
he said without going into further detail.  “We realize we have a lot of work to do, but the most
important thing we think we can do is get the products back on
the shelf,” Gorsky said. “We know we are going to have to win
the hearts and minds and pocketbooks of the consumer.”  On Feb. 13, just before Gorsky was named to his new role,
J&J was knocked from one of the top two spots in Harris
Interactive’s annual consumer poll of corporate images for the
first time in 13 years, falling to seventh. This month, the
drugmaker said it is taking longer than anticipated to correct
problems at the plant where the recalled drugs were
manufactured. It doesn’t expect to have all the pulled products
back on the market until 2013, the company said.  Not ‘So Broken’  “I don’t think the company is so broken that it needs to
be completely repaired,” said David Heupel, a portfolio manager
with Thrivant Financial for Lutherans.  “A lot of the elements you need for improvement are there.
It’s just an execution issue” that Gorsky will have to make
work to get the company on the right track, Heupel said in a
telephone interview.  For Gorsky, the challenge will be organizational and
financial. J&J  shares  have been little changed for the past 12
months, compared with a 7.6 percent gain in the  Standard and
Poor’s 500 Health Care Index . The company rose less than 1
percent to $64.46 at 9:54 a.m. New York time.  J&J got 40 percent of its revenue from medical devices, 37
percent from pharmaceuticals and 23 percent from over-the-
counter products in 2011. The company generated $65 billion in
2011 sales selling everything from Band-Aids to cancer drugs.  Rivals’ Plans  Pfizer is the world’s top seller of health-care products
with $67.4 billion in 2011 revenue. Pfizer CEO Ian Read has said
he wants to reduce the New York-based drugmaker’s size and on
April 23 the company announced it would sell its infant-
nutrition business to  Nestle SA (NESN)  for about $11.9 billion.  Abbott, with $38.9 billion in 2011 revenue, said it would
split the company into a drugmaker and diversified health-care
business by year’s end.  Along with organizational issues, Gorsky and J&J also face
mounting legal challenges.  An Arkansas judge ruled on April 12 that J&J must pay $1.1
billion in fines, after a jury found the company misled doctors
about the antipsychotic medication Risperdal. J&J said the fine
is “excessive” and that it would appeal the ruling if its
motion for a dismissal fails.  Gorsky History  Gorsky was vice president of sales and later president of
J&J’s Janssen Pharmaceutical unit, which sold Risperal. Lawyers
for the U.S. Justice Department are trying to compel Gorsky to
testify in a lawsuit claiming J&J paid kickbacks to boost sales
of the antipsychotic drug. The U.S. sued J&J in January 2010,
saying the company paid millions of dollars to induce  Omnicare
Inc. (OCR)  to buy J&J drugs including Risperdal.  Gorsky said he couldn’t comment on the litigation. J&J says
the payments to Omnicare were allowable rebates, not illegal
kickbacks.  More than 550 lawsuits have also been filed against J&J’s
Ethicon unit by women who blame the company’s vaginal mesh
implants for internal injuries. The company similarly faces more
than 6,000 lawsuits from patients who received faulty artificial
hips that were recalled in 2010.  Gorsky, a graduate of the U.S. Military Academy at  West
Point , joined J&J’s Janssen unit in 1988 as a sales
representative, according to a company biography. He left the
company in 2004 to join Basel, Switzerland-based Novartis AG,
where he headed North American pharmaceuticals.  Four years later, he returned to J&J, and he was named
global chairman of the devices and diagnostics groups in 2009.
He’ll be paid $1.2 million as CEO, the company said in a filing.  “Going forward we really believe that health care is
probably going to be the biggest problem we face as a
generation,” said Gorsky. “We are going to have to be bold in
this new health care environment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in New York at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  