-- Japan Has No Plan to Halt U.S. Beef Imports on Mad-Cow Case
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2012-04-25T04:19:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/japan-has-no-plan-to-halt-u-s-beef-imports-on-mad-cow-case-1-.html
Japan  won’t suspend U.S. beef
imports even after the discovery of mad-cow disease in
 California , said an agriculture ministry official.  “We are importing beef from the U.S. under rules agreed
between the two nations, based on the assumption that mad-cow
disease has not yet been eradicated,” Minoru Yamamoto, director
at the ministry’s international animal health affairs office,
said today by phone. “We don’t plan to halt imports because of
the discovery in the U.S.”  The first U.S. case of the brain-wasting disease in six
years was found in a dairy cow before it entered the food chain
and posed any threat to consumers, John Clifford, the U.S.
 Department of Agriculture ’s chief veterinarian, told reporters
yesterday in  Washington . The cow was identified as part of
routine testing for the disease, Clifford said.  Japan restricts U.S. beef imports to cattle 20 months old
or younger as older animals are at higher risk of having the
disease. The regulation was put in place before Japan resumed
purchases in 2005 of American beef, which had been banned after
of the first discovery of the disease in the U.S. in 2003.  Futures for June delivery climbed 0.3 percent to $1.11875 a
pound on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange at 12:51 p.m. in  Tokyo 
after falling yesterday to the lowest level since July 1.  Before yesterday’s discovery, the health ministry was
planning to relax the import restriction after getting approval
from the nation’s  Food Safety  Commission, as risks for mad-cow
disease have receded internationally, Hideshi Michino, director
at the ministry’s import food safety office, said on April 11.  ‘Delay’ Process  The ministry has proposed to raise the age limit to 30
months, widening opportunities for U.S. beef shippers to boost
sales to Japan, the largest export market before the 2003 ban. A
commission panel on the disease held its fourth meeting
yesterday to discuss the proposed change.  “The latest mad-cow case in the U.S. may delay Japan’s
decision-making process, as experts at the Food Safety
Commission will probably take time to examine it,” said Susumu Harada, senior director at the Tokyo office of U.S. Meat Export
Federation, a sales-promotion organization.  ‘Atypical’  The latest case was “atypical,” the USDA’s Clifford said,
meaning the form of the disease was very rare and not generally
associated with an animal consuming infected feed. Such cases
can occur spontaneously in older animals, said Guy Loneragan, an
epidemiologist and professor of food safety and public health at
Texas Tech University in Lubbock.  U.S. beef is “very safe” and “firewalls” put in place
ensure that there are no health concerns, Joel Haggard, Asia-
Pacific vice president of the U.S Meat Export Federation, said
today in an interview with Bloomberg Television.  U.S. beef sales to Japan may gain 24 percent to 150,000
metric tons in 2012, the seventh straight year of expansion, as
restrictions on shipments ease and a strong yen will curb import
costs, Philip Seng, the federation president, said on April 11.
The forecast is based on assumption that the easing of
restrictions will occur, he said, without giving a timeframe.  U.S. beef exports, including variety meat, may reach 1.3
million to 1.35 million tons (2.9 billion to 3 billion pounds)
this year, up from an estimated 1.28 million tons in 2011, the
federation has projected. Japan was the third-largest export
market for U.S. beef after  Mexico  and  Canada  last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  