-- Japan Eschews Spending-Contingency Plan, Official Says
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a   a n d   K y o k o   S h i m o d o i
-- 2012-04-25T09:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/japan-eschews-spending-contingency-plan-official-says.html
Japan  isn’t prepared to consider
boosting spending even as a fading impact from earthquake
reconstruction packages is poised to curb growth later this year.  “We’re not considering any possibility in which we would
face a shortage of funds” and have to increase spending,
Fumihiko Igarashi, a vice finance minister, said in an interview
in Tokyo. The central government allocated 23 trillion yen ($283
billion) over the years through 2021, and the onus is on local
officials to craft specific plans to use the money and boost
spending, he said.  Morgan Stanley economists last week warned that “fiscal
policy is turning contractionary,” with gross domestic product
gains projected to moderate in the latter three quarters of 2012
from a gain in excess of 2 percent in January to March. The
world’s third-largest economy shrank last year after the record
March 11 earthquake and tsunami.  Local authorities are taking time to put together
reconstruction projects including the relocation of tsunami-
stricken communities because such projects require a consensus
of residents, Igarashi, who’s served in the ministry’s No. 2
position since 2010, said today. “Money is ready” to flow
through the economy once specific construction projects start
getting implemented, he said, adding that the economy is
expected to keep improving through next year.  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  has pledged to stamp out
deflation and spur growth while the government seeks to double
the  sales tax  to 10 percent by 2015 to curb the public  debt ,
which is twice as large as the economy. The government has
already submitted a sales-tax increase bill to the parliament
and is trying to pass it by the end of the current session in
June.  “Japanese people are increasingly realizing the need” for
higher taxes to curb debt and “such perception is expected to
be reflected in opposition parties’ stance,” Igarashi said.
“It’s pretty highly likely” that the bill will be authorized
by parliament, he added.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in  Tokyo  at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoko Shimodoi in Tokyo at 
 kshimodoi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  