-- Japan Recommends Preferential Price Rates for Renewable Energy
-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 2012-04-25T04:59:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/japan-recommends-preferential-price-rates-for-renewable-energy.html
Japan  will require power utilities
to pay above market rates for electricity generated from
renewable energy sources such as solar and wind, based on
recommendations announced today by a government panel.  The preferential rate, known as a feed-in tariff, for solar
power was recommended at 42 yen (52 U.S. cents) a kilowatt-hour
for 20 years, compared with the current rate of 13.65 yen a
kilowatt-hour for industry and commercial users, according to
the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry.  Wind-generated power was recommended at 23.10 yen a
kilowatt hour for plants with the capacity of 20 kilowatts or
more and 57.75 yen for smaller ones, both for 20 years. For
geothermal, the panel recommended 27.30 yen a kilowatt hour for
plants with the capacity of 15,000 kilowatts or more and 42 yen
for smaller plants, both for 15 years. Japan currently gets
about 9 percent of its electricity from  renewable energy .  Pending approval by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and
Industry, the feed-in tariffs will be introduced in July to spur
investment in solar, wind geothermal, biomass and hydroelectric
power generation as Japan plans a shift away from atomic power
after the Fukushima disaster.  In August, Japan’s parliament approved legislation for the
feed-in tariffs to help diversify its energy mix following the
devastating accident at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant in
March 2011. Atomic power provided about 30 percent of the
country’s electricity before the Fukushima crisis.  Nuclear Free  Japan is set to be nuclear free for the first time in more
than four decades next month as the last of its 50 operating
reactors is scheduled to be shut for maintenance. All the
reactors are being kept offline pending safety tests and
government approval for restarts.  The price recommendation for solar is in line with that
earlier proposed by the Japan Photovoltaic Energy Association.
The Japan Wind Power Association had suggested a wind tariff of
up to 25 yen over 20 years for bigger producers.  The Japan Geothermal Developers’ Council had recommended
25.8 yen a kilowatt-hour for 15 years for bigger suppliers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  