-- Japan’s ‘Great Tohoku’ Quakes Have Recurred, Data Show
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2012-04-25T10:11:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/japan-s-great-tohoku-quakes-have-recurred-data-show.html
The “Great Tohoku Earthquake”
that shook  Japan , unleashed a tsunami and killed 20,000 people
last year wasn’t as unusual as geologists first supposed,
according to new geological data collected near the  fault lines .  Earthquakes like the March 11, 2011, temblor have probably
occurred at least three other times in history, according to
German, Swiss and Japanese scientists who drilled into sediment
7,000 meters (22,967 feet) beneath the sea. The discovery will
help planners measure the risk of such events recurring, said
Michael Strasser, a Swiss scientist who led a research
expedition to the quake zone this month.  “We were able to get a record to suggest the potential
occurrence of three other large-scale Tohoku-type events,”
Strasser told reporters today in Vienna. “It’s the first time
the cores have shown this.”  Germany  dispatched the “Research Vessel Sonne,” a 100-
meter ship, in March to aid Japanese researchers collecting data
about the earthquake. Scientists found layers of sediment and
fossils in undersea trenches deposited by earthquake-triggered
landslides. Researchers are trying to carbon-date the material.  “They must go back beyond 1,000 years,” said Kiyoshi Suyehiro, president of Integrated Ocean Drilling Program, an
international research group. “It is very important to know the
recurrence rate. Unfortunately, seismologists including myself
weren’t expecting this to happen.”  Understanding Risks  While Japanese geologists know from historical records that
a similar earthquake struck the region between 500 and 1,000
years ago, there’s no record or data beyond that time, Kiyoshi
said.  Policy makers must understand natural-disaster risk before
investing in infrastructure built to last for many generations,
according to the scientists.  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s
Fukushima Dai-Ich nuclear-power plant was overwhelmed by the
tsunami triggered by the earthquake and three of the facility’s
four reactors melted down.  Minutes of a June 2009 Trade Ministry meeting on safety at
the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant show Tokyo Electric and the
regulator ignored scientific findings that emerged after the
power station was built.  “We didn’t think the damage would be that significant,”
Isao Nishimura, a manager at the department at the utility that
studies earthquake resistance, said when asked at the meeting
why its safety review omitted studies showing the area had a
history of major earthquakes and tsunamis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net  