-- Joint Staff Chairman Orders Inquiry Into Islam Course
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-04-25T16:41:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/joint-staff-chairman-orders-inquiry-into-islam-course.html
The top U.S. military officer has
ordered an inquiry into whether a training course on Islam
taught since 2008 contains “inflammatory” and objectionable
statements, according to a spokesman.  General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, ordered the inquiry yesterday after a former student
complained in March, spokesman Navy Captain John Kirby said. The
course taught to military officers is entitled, “Perspectives
on Islam and Islamic Radicalism.”  “Our concern is that there are some unprofessional things
being taught to students in a professional military educational
curriculum,” Kirby told reporters today at the Pentagon. The
inquiry “will determine how the material got into the course
and what we need to do to move it forward.”  The class has been suspended, he said.  The eight-week, 20-student course was among the electives
officers could choose from a curriculum on conducting operations
with their fellow services taught at the Joint Forces Staff
College in Norfolk,  Virginia , Kirby said.  “Inflammatory ideas” were in some of the course
materials, Kirby said, recounting a classroom PowerPoint
presentation. “One of them --  the ‘ United States  is at war
with Islam’ -- was presented as an assertion.”  “That’s not at all what we believe to be the case,” he
said. “We are at war with terrorism, specifically al-Qaeda, who
has a warped view of the Islamic faith. We don’t consider us at
war with Islam.”  At least one student found material presented in the class
“objectionable, and we would agree,” Kirby said.  “What we don’t know is when this objectionable material
got into the course material,” said Kirby. “How long have some
of these notions been taught?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  