-- Hirst’s Smelly Show, Jon Regen’s Pop: London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-04-26T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/jon-regen-odiferous-hirst-coffee-fest-london-weekend.html
Jon Regen is in town to show off
his jazz-meets-pop album “Revolution.”  It features Andy Summers of the Police on catchy tracks
such as “Spirits of the Soul,” which Regen will play with P.J.
Phillips on bass and  John Miller  on drums. Hear Regen before he
gets big: His sound has echoes of  Bruce Hornsby  and  Billy Joel ,
and he’s good enough to beat both.  April 27-29 at Pizza Express Jazz Club, 10 Dean Street,
Soho, W1D 3RW and May 2 at the Pheasantry, 152 Kings Road,
Chelsea, SW3 4UT. Information:  http://pizzaexpresslive.com  and
 http://www.jonregen.com/   Saturday  There’s a faint smell wafting through a corner of the
crowded Damien Hirst retrospective at Tate Modern.  A bleeding cow’s head lies in a vitrine, feasted on by
freshly incubated flies that get zapped on the spot by an
insect-o-cutor. The dead bovine is starting to emit an acrid
odor; the show goes on for another four and a half months.  Another dead cow is chopped in half and pickled. You can
walk through the two halves, tightly sealed in individual
vitrines. Or you can contemplate living creatures: butterflies
that hatch inside a hot room and flit around. There’s a line to
go in; the butterflies would die in the stampede, otherwise.  “ Damien Hirst ” is at Tate Modern, Bankside, London,
through Sept. 9. Information:  http://www.tate.org.uk  or
+44-20-7887-8888.  Saturday Night  Catch it while you can: “The King’s Speech” is closing
two months early on May 12, despite fairly positive reviews.
(The producers say it probably came out too soon after the
movie). But Charles Edwards is absolutely worth seeing as the
future king.  Information:  http://www.kingsspeechtheplay.com/  or
+44-844-482-5136.  Good Mexican food can be hard to find in London. The latest
venue is La Bodega Negra, a restaurant and cafe near the
Wyndham’s Theatre. The food is spicy and the drinks are cool.
Just don’t go there in search of fine dining. Information:
 http://www.labodeganegra.com/  or +44-20-7758-4100.  Sunday  Drink yourself awake at the coffee festival.  You’ll catch baristas and professional coffee roasters in
action, and sample a cup or two from an independent cafe (i.e.
not a high-street chain), with unexpected ingredients such as
salt and popcorn-infused milk.  The  London Coffee Festival  runs April 27 to 29 at the Old
Truman Brewery on Brick Lane,  London  E1 6QL. Information:
 http://www.londoncoffeefestival.com .  Hawksmoor Spitalfields, near Brick Lane, is known for
serving some of the finest steaks in London. The new bar
downstairs is gaining fans for its cocktails and snacks.  157 Commercial Street, E1 6BJ. Information: +20-7426-4850
or  http://thehawksmoor.com/locations/spitalfields#map   Today’s Muse highlights include: Martin Gayford reviews Ron
Mueck’s  art show  in London:  Rich Jaroslovsky  on  Kindle ;  Jason
Harper  on the  Ford Taurus SHO .  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 