-- Najib Spending Could Risk Downgrade Without Revenue Boost
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2012-04-26T04:48:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/najib-spending-binge-could-risk-downgrade-without-revenue-boost.html
Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak’s record spending binge, aimed at shoring up support
before elections as early as next month, may risk the country’s
first credit-rating downgrade since the Asian financial crisis.  Standard & Poor’s  “might have to think about” a potential
cut in a few years unless the next government enacts measures to
boost revenue and reduce subsidies after the vote,  Takahira
Ogawa , an analyst at the rating company, said in an interview.
Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings also said Malaysia
must take steps to bring down its debt-to-GDP ratio, which the
International Monetary Fund projects may climb to a 20-year high
of 55.9 percent this year.  Najib, 58, has raised civil servant salaries and pensions,
waived school fees and boosted handouts for the poor in a bid to
extend the ruling party’s 55-year lock on power. His National
Front coalition won its lowest-ever share of the vote in 2008,
and failure to secure a clear mandate may lead to political
gridlock that would impede plans to strengthen public finances.  “Elections have delayed the required policy adjustments
and aggravated the fiscal situation as populist policies take
center stage,” said Chua Hak Bin, an economist at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch in  Singapore . “Not going through with
structural reforms, including introducing a broad-based
 consumption tax  and reducing fuel subsidies, will eventually
hurt Malaysia’s credit standing.”  Debt Ratio  Malaysia’s ratio of gross debt to gross domestic product
rose to an estimated 55 percent in 2011 from 35 percent in 2000,
according to IMF.  South Africa , which shares with Malaysia an A3
rating from Moody’s, has a ratio that fell to 36 percent in 2011
from 42 percent in 2000.  Malaysia is rated A- by Standard & Poor’s, along with
Botswana, which has a debt ratio of 16 percent. Indonesia,
 Southeast Asia ’s largest economy, is rated BB+ by S&P and has
seen its debt fall to 25 percent in 2011 from 95 percent of GDP
in 2000, according to the IMF.  Najib unveiled a record 232.8 billion ringgit ($76 billion)
budget in October, saying the government would increase civil
servant salaries by as much as 13 percent and also remove school
fees for primary and secondary students. Households with monthly
incomes of 3,000 ringgit or less have begun receiving one-off
cash handouts of 500 ringgit.  Spending on salaries and allowances is projected to rise
4.2 percent to 52 billion ringgit in 2012 versus an estimated
49.9 billion ringgit in 2011, according to numbers released by
the government in October.  Malaysia  has also set aside more than
3 billion ringgit not included in the proposed budget to finance
the pay raise for civil servants, according to the treasury
department.  ‘Particularly Crucial’  “This election is particularly crucial given that the
long-term outlook for fiscal sustainability and economic growth
will likely hinge on the next government’s reform agenda,”
Christian de Guzman, a Singapore-based assistant vice president
at Moody’s said in an e-mail. “While both sides of the
political divide readily acknowledge the need for such reforms,
getting them passed will indeed be much more difficult with a
weak mandate.”  Najib may call an early election in May or June, ahead of
the due date in early 2013, according to four officials who
spoke last month on condition of anonymity because the talks are
private. Najib told reporters on March 19 that winning back the
two-thirds majority lost in 2008 would be “challenging.”  Public Opinion  Satisfaction with Najib’s leadership rose to 69 percent in
February from 59 percent in August, according to the latest poll
by the Merdeka Center for Opinion Research.  Any risk of a downgrade isn’t reflected in credit markets,
with the cost to protect Malaysia’s sovereign debt from default
dropping 36 basis points this year to 110 basis points on April
25, according to data provider CMA, which compiles prices quoted
by dealers in the privately negotiated market. That
compares with 170 in  Indonesia  and 133 in  Thailand .  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a
government or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually in a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  “The bigger concern is after the general election,” Kun Lung Wu, a Singapore-based economist at Credit Suisse Group AG,
said in a telephone interview. “Whenever there’s another global
shock, either a global downturn or drop in commodity prices,
particularly  oil prices , then that could easily send the debt-
to-GDP ratio much, much higher.”  Oil Producer  Malaysia is Southeast Asia second-largest oil producer
after Indonesia. Petroliam Nasional Bhd., the state-owned  oil
company  which manages the country’s energy reserves, accounted
for about a third of the government’s revenue in 2011.  Malaysia’s economy may expand 4 percent to 5 percent in
2012,  Bank Negara Malaysia  said in its annual report released in
March. That compares with last year’s 5.1 percent  rise .  Since Najib took office on April 3, 2009, the benchmark
 FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index (FBMKLCI)  has risen 74 percent and hit a
record on April 3. The MSCI Asia Pacific index has gained 43
percent in the same period.  While the debt level of many countries rose amid the global
financial crisis of 2008-2009, Malaysia stands out, said Fitch
analyst  Andrew Colquhoun .  “Malaysia has yet to articulate a clear strategy for
getting the debt ratios back down,” he said, adding that the
country is over-dependent on oil revenue. “Structural fiscal
reforms including  tax reform  remain on the back-burner.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  