-- Revamping U.S. Disability Rules in Secret Draws Criticism
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-04-25T14:35:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/new-u-s-disability-rules-criticized-by-business-delayed.html
Business groups led by the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce pressed the Obama administration to block
revised guidelines for discrimination against disabled workers
until the public has a chance to review the proposals.  The U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, which was
set to approve the guidance as early as today, deleted the item
from a meeting agenda without explanation. The Chamber, in an
April 19 letter to Cass Sunstein, administrator of the White
House Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, said the
guidance could hurt businesses. The advice would help employers
comply with the Americans With Disabilities Act on issues such
as extended leave and making accommodations for the disabled
workers.  “What’s really disturbing us is that it’s being done under
the cover of darkness,”  Michael Eastman , the Chamber’s
executive director for labor law policy, said in an interview.
“There has not been any attempt to get input form
stakeholders.”  The potential changes to the agency’s guidelines, updated
in 2005, haven’t been released, according to Christine Nazer, a
commission spokeswoman. The issues were discussed at a June 8
meeting.  “It’s going to be a revision,” Nazer said in an
interview. “It will have some expanded information.”  ‘Reasonable Accommodation’  Employers are required to provide “reasonable
accommodation” for people with disabilities, such as extended
unpaid leave for necessary treatment. Representatives of
employer and employee groups agreed that more clarity on how to
apply the law is needed, said Brian East, senior attorney with
Austin, Texas-based  Disability Rights Texas .  “Exactly what this guidance is going to say, I don’t
know,” East said in an interview. “Both the employer side and
employee side suggested the need for additional guidance on
leave as an accommodation and on other areas.”  The commission failed to provide a draft of potential
changes at the June 8 meeting, according to the Chamber’s
letter. The process has advanced “without any meaningful
opportunity for stakeholder participation in development of the
guidance and without review by” the White House.  The Chamber said it has “significant concerns that the
guidance under consideration by the EEOC will not interpret the
ADA in the balanced manner which Congress directed,” according
to the letter co-signed by the Alexandria, Virginia-based
Society for Human Resource Management and the HR Policy
Association based in  Washington .  Arrest Records  Proposed changes to guidance on using arrest and conviction
records, which also are on today’s meeting agenda, have been
known to business groups for more than a year, Eastman said.  “We’ve been talking with them throughout that time,”
Eastman said. “So while we don’t think the process is perfect,
its orders of magnitude better than the process on this ADA
document.”  The commission follows public notice requirements set by
Congress when approving regulations, Nazer said.  “Guidance approved by the commission, such as any possible
guidance on the use of arrest and conviction records, are sub-
regulatory,” she said in an e-mail. “That is, they do not rise
to the level or effect of regulations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  