-- NewPage Creditors Win More Time to Sue Over 2007 Buyout
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-04-25T21:51:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/newpage-creditors-win-more-time-to-sue-over-2007-lbo-correct-.html
Creditors of NewPage Corp., the
bankrupt maker of coated papers in  North America , won more time
to file a lawsuit over a 2007 leveraged buyout that boosted the
company’s debt load by $1.7 billion.  U.S. Bankruptcy JudgeKevin Gross in Wilmington, Delaware,
gave a committee of unsecured creditors until May 4 to prepare a
lawsuit challenging NewPage’s purchase of competitor Stora Enso
North American Inc.  “By any measure, the 2007 acquisition saddled the debtors
with a significant amount of additional secured and unsecured
debt,” the committee said in court papers.  NewPage, based in Miamisburg,  Ohio , in September filed the
biggest bankruptcy of 2011 by assets, listing $3.4 billion in
assets and $4.2 billion in debt as of June 30.  The company’s $2.7 billion in secured debt exceeds the
value of its assets, NewPage attorney Martin J. Bienenstock, of
Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, said today in court. Under U.S.  Bankruptcy
Code , that would mean the unsecured, lower-ranking creditors
represented by the committee are unlikely to recover anything.  The committee has been investigating whether the 2007
buyout and a later 2009 refinancing can be challenged as so-
called fraudulent transfers that harmed lower-ranking creditors,
according to court records.  Committee attorney Luc Despins said first-lien lenders are
likely to be among the targets of the lawsuit creditors plan to
file.  Gross said he was concerned that the battles between the
committee and higher-ranking creditors may run up such high
legal bills that NewPage and its employees could suffer.  “This case has been so contentious so far,” Gross said.
“To some extent this has been like a psycho-therapy session.”  The case is In re NewPage Corp. 11-12804,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  