-- Nexans Stock Declines on Submarine-Cable Production Delay
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-04-25T09:42:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/nexans-stock-declines-on-submarine-cable-production-delay.html
Nexans SA (NEX) , the world’s second-
biggest cable maker, fell the most in more than three years
after predicting a drop in first-half earnings because of
production delays at its submarine-cable plant in  Norway .  Nexans fell as much as 15 percent to 37.24 euros, the
 steepest  intraday decline since February 2009, and was trading
down 13 percent at 11:40 a.m. in Paris.  “We’ve lost about 50 million euros ($66 million) in sales,
which have been pushed back for two to three months” because of
the late production in Norway, Chief Executive Officer  Frederic Vincent  said in a telephone interview today. “For the full
year, we’re not providing guidance because we’re facing quite a
volatile situation,” and the company is being “particularly
vigilant” about the European economy.  The invoice delay in high-voltage submarine cables,
combined with lingering competitive pressure in high-voltage
underground cables, will lead the Paris-based company’s
 operating margin  to fall to about 3.5 percent of sales in the
first half, Nexans said in a statement. That compares with 5.1
percent a year earlier. Sales excluding acquisitions or
disposals rose 0.6 percent in the first quarter, and were up 6.4
percent when excluding high-voltage activities.  “In land power transmission, there’s a pressure coming
from capacities built in 2007 and 2008 in  South Korea  and the
 Middle East  essentially, and in Europe to a lesser extent, and
from attrition in the market” Vincent said. “The margin in our
backlog is declining.”  Margin Growth Forecast  Excluding high-voltage cables, the  operating margin  will
rise from a year earlier during the first half, the CEO said.  Repairs of production tools at the Norwegian plant are
proceeding, and operational difficulties “should be
progressively be absorbed in the second half,” Chief Financial
Officer Nicolas Badre said on a call with journalists today. In
submarine cables, Nexans may return to an operating margin of 10
percent to 15 percent “toward 2013,” the CEO said.  Nexans is also hoping to resume work in  Libya  in the second
half to complete a contract for power-transmission cables worth
tens of millions of euros, and it will announce an order “in
coming days” from a Libyan utility valued at more than 100
million euros, Vincent said.  Rising copper and aluminum prices had a “small negative
impact” on the working-capital requirement in the first
quarter, the CFO said. Rising plastic costs since the end of
last year are “not positive,” and are forcing Nexans to try to
raise prices, he said.  “We’re particularly vigilant on the European backdrop,
especially for building cables and the industrial sector like
 machine tools , robotics, special cables for bridges,” Vincent
said. “We’ll resume restructuring in 2013,” which may affect
 Europe .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Noel at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net  