-- Nexen First-Quarter Profit Drops 15% on Production Fall
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2012-04-25T21:18:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/nexen-first-quarter-profit-drops-15-on-production-fall.html
Nexen Inc. (NXY) , the Canadian oil
producer that’s gained 18 percent this year, said first-quarter
profit declined 15 percent after unplanned maintenance drove
down production and development of new wells was slower than
expected.  Net income fell to C$171 million ($174 million), or 32
cents a share, from C$202 million, or 38 cents, a year earlier,
according to a statement today. Per-share profit was 22 cents
less than the average of four  analysts’ estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Production after royalties averaged 192,000 barrels a
day, compared with 207,000 barrels a year earlier.  Unplanned maintenance at Syncrude Canada Ltd., an oil-sands
company in which Nexen holds a 7.2 percent stake, reduced
output, along with the end of a contract in Yemen and declining
production in the U.S. Maintenance is expected to continue in
the current quarter, Interim Chief Executive Officer Kevin
Reinhart, said during a conference call today.  “We had a couple of challenges in the quarter,” Reinhart
said. Development of new wells in the  North Sea  and the  Gulf of
Mexico  progressed slower than the Calgary-based company
anticipated during the period.  Transportation Costs  Higher-than-expected transportation and administration
costs offset higher prices for oil, causing the company to miss
estimates, George Toriola, an analyst at UBS Securities Canada
Inc., said in a research note today. Toriola rates the shares
buy and does not own the stock.  Cash flow  from operations in the quarter was unchanged at
C$1.27 a share, the company said. Sales rose 3.4 percent to
C$1.7 billion from a year earlier.  Former Chief Executive Officer Marvin Romanow stepped down
in January amid a slumping share price and missed production
targets. The board is looking for a permanent replacement,
Reinhart said. There are no plans to sell the company or assets,
he said.  The company, which gets 80 percent of its production from
oil and liquids, boosted output from its Long Lake oil-sands
project 10 percent and began producing at its Usan field off the
coast of West Africa in the quarter.  Nexen is also considering exporting liquefied natural gas
from its operations in northern British Columbia to  Asia ,
Reinhart said. Canadian regulators have already approved such
proposals.  The company expects to meet second quarter and 2012 output
forecasts, it said. It estimates full-year production will
average 185,000 to 220,000 barrels a day.  Nexen rose 0.5 percent to C$19.10 in Toronto. The stock has
13 buy and 10 hold ratings from analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  