-- Nokia Delays U.K. Start of Flagship Lumia on U.S. Demand
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-04-25T16:18:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/nokia-delays-u-k-start-of-flagship-lumia-on-u-s-demand.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  said it is delaying the
introduction of its Lumia 900 smartphone in the U.K. by more
than two weeks because of demand for the handset in the U.S.  The “overwhelming demand” for the flagship device in the
U.S. with operator  AT&T Inc. (T)  had a “knock-on effect on product
availability in the U.K.,” Nokia spokesman Hans Tranberg said
in a statement to Bloomberg. The device will now be available
from British retailer Phones4U on May 14, compared with an
initial target date of April 27.  AT&T started selling the device, Nokia’s first phone for
fourth-generation networks, on April 8 for $99.99 and U.S. rival
Verizon Wireless is also preparing to add a new Nokia model. The
handset, running Microsoft Corp. Windows Phone software, was
initially hit by a glitch in the data software, with Nokia
giving customers $100 credit on their phone bills.  Nokia reported sales of about 2 million Lumia phones in the
first quarter. The Espoo, Finland-based company plans to
increase advertising spending on the product this quarter, Chief
Executive Officer Stephen Elop said last week.  AT&T and  Verizon Wireless  are counting on the Lumia and
forthcoming Windows models to provide an alternative to Apple
Inc.’s iPhone and Google Inc. Android handsets.  While AT&T and Verizon sell millions of those devices, the
products can be more costly than other phones to subsidize,
especially the iPhone. The companies also face the risk that an
Apple-Google duopoly will erode carriers’ ability to distinguish
themselves and will further squeeze their profit margins.  Once dominant in the mobile-phone industry, Nokia’s market
capitalization has fallen by about 70 billion euros since Apple
introduced the iPhone in 2007. Last quarter, Nokia’s shipments
slid 24 percent to 83 million phones, the lowest level in almost
six years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  