-- Nokia, HTC Get IPCom 3G Wireless Network Patent Revoked
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-04-25T13:06:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/nokia-htc-get-ipcom-3g-wireless-network-patent-revoked.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and  HTC Corp. (2498)  won a
ruling revoking a patent that IPCom GmbH relied on to get
injunctions in Germany against the sales of some third-
generation wireless phones.  The  European Patent Office  revoked the intellectual
property protection today, the agency’s spokesman Rainer
Osterwalder said by telephone. IPCom said it will appeal.  A Dusseldorf court yesterday banned  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  from selling HTC and Nokia devices using the
technology in a case brought by IPCom. The phone companies and
manufacturers can appeal the ruling.  The patent, called “100A” by its owner, is a central
piece of the portfolio IPCom used in its effort to make Nokia
and HTC pay royalties for mobile technology it acquired from
 Robert Bosch GmbH  in 2007. The companies are entangled in patent
litigation across Europe. The patent was filed for methods used
to connect devices to 3G wireless networks and prioritize them.  Thomas Empt, a spokesman for Pullach, Germany-based IPCom,
said in an e-mail the patent remains valid during these
proceedings and thus today’s ruling won’t influence cases the
company won in Germany and the U.K..  Nokia and HTC took the opposing view. The EPO’s decision
means that the Dusseldorf court’s ruling yesterday isn’t
expected to stop the sales of their products in Germany, the two
companies said in separate e-mailed statements.  “IPCom needs to recognize its position and end its
unrealistic demands for what remains of this significantly
diminished portfolio,” said Paul Melin, vice president for
intellectual property at Nokia.  HTC called the EPO decision a “grave setback” for IPCom
and said it is hoping that the “cost driving” patent
litigation will now end.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  