-- Nomura Said to Post Gain in Quarterly Profit on Trading
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-04-25T07:24:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/nomura-said-to-post-gain-in-quarterly-profit-on-trading.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ,  Japan ’s
largest brokerage, will report an increase in quarterly profit
as gains from trading outweighed declines in investment banking,
two people with knowledge of the matter said.  Net income climbed to about 18 billion yen ($221 million)
for the three months ended March 31 from 11.9 billion yen a year
earlier, said the people, declining to be identified before
earnings are announced. The average estimate of nine analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg was for profit of 14.4 billion yen.  The rebound in trading income that gave Nomura its second
straight quarterly  profit  gain also let U.S. rivals including
Bank of America Corp. post earnings that beat analysts’
estimates. Financial  markets  rallied worldwide last quarter as
 Europe ’s debt crisis eased, U.S. unemployment fell and Japan
rebuilt from last year’s earthquake and tsunami.  “It’s positive to see the profit increase,” said Shiro Yoshioka, an analyst at  Japaninvest Group Plc (3827)  in Tokyo. “But
investors can’t be too optimistic as it’s due to the market
pickup, and Nomura hasn’t shown the next strategic driver to
boost earnings in the future.”  The profit figure is preliminary and may change when
Nomura’s board meets this week to confirm the results, the
people said. Keiko Sugai, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman for the
brokerage, declined to comment. Nomura is scheduled to announce
fiscal fourth-quarter earnings at 3 p.m. in Tokyo on April 27.  Shares Rise  Shares of Nomura rose 2.4 percent to 344 yen at the close
of trading in  Tokyo . The stock was the most traded on the Tokyo
Stock Exchange today. Nomura has advanced 54 percent since Nov.
24, when it reached the lowest in at least 37 years.  Fourth-quarter  profit  of 18 billion yen would bring net
income for the year ended March 31 to about 7.5 billion yen.
That’s more than the 3.9 billion yen median estimate of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg, while lower than the 28.7 billion yen
posted for the previous fiscal year.  The Japanese brokerage is cutting $1.2 billion of expenses
that swelled after it bought Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
Asian and European businesses following the U.S. firm’s 2008
collapse. Nomura deepened the cost reductions after posting a
46.1 billion yen loss in the quarter ended September, its first
since the start of 2009.  Credit Suisse  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the second-largest Swiss bank,
today posted a 96 percent decline in first-quarter profit to 44
million Swiss francs ($48 million) after booking accounting
charges related to its own debt and costs for 2011 bonuses. That
beat analysts’ average  estimate  for a 297.9 million-franc loss.  Moody’s Investors Service cut Nomura’s  debt rating  to the
lowest investment grade on March 15, saying global competition
raises questions over the profitability of the securities firm.
 Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601) , Nomura’s biggest domestic
competitor, was lowered to the same grade, Baa3, in November.  Trading profit at Nomura rose to about 88 billion yen for
the quarter from 68.7 billion yen a year earlier, according to
the average estimate of four analysts.  Investment banking  fees
probably fell to 18 billion yen for the quarter from 27.8
billion yen a year earlier, according to the four analysts.  The company revamped trading operations last quarter by
splitting the global markets unit into fixed-income and equity
businesses. It appointed Steve Ashley as global head of fixed
income in January following the resignations of two bankers,
including former global markets chief Tarun Jotwani. Nomura
hired traders in the U.S., Europe and the  Middle East , including
head of Treasury trading J.J. Lando, who joined from Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. last year as a managing director in  New York .  Asian Focus  Also in the period, the firm appointed Koji Nagai as
president of brokerage unit Nomura Securities Co., a post that
was previously held by Chief Executive Officer Kenichi Watanabe.
It also set up teams to expand business in  China ,  India  and
 Southeast Asia .  “The impact of restructuring efforts will emerge more
clearly in the current quarter,” said Yoshioka at Japaninvest.
“On the other hand, market conditions have become a bit
unpredictable.”  Japan’s benchmark  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  climbed 19
percent last quarter, its best start to a calendar year since
1988. It has since retreated about 5 percent. The world’s third-
largest economy probably resumed growing in the quarter from a
contraction in the final three months of 2011, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Lifted Rankings  While Nomura lifted its rankings for advising on global
mergers and managing bond sales last quarter, investment banking
fees may have been hampered by companies issuing fewer shares,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Global equity offerings
fell 26 percent in the three months from a year earlier, the
data show. In Japan, share sales declined 58 percent.  Nomura was No. 10 underwriter for global equity sales in
the three months, arranging 19 transactions valued at $2.9
billion, maintaining its position from a year earlier when it
managed 25 deals worth $7.1 billion, according to Bloomberg
data. Its ranking for international bond underwriting climbed
three spots to 26th. On mergers and acquisitions, Nomura was No.
8 global adviser for the quarter, up from 14th a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  