-- North Korea’s Modern Weapons Can Defeat U.S., General Says
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-04-25T09:08:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/north-korea-s-weapons-can-defeat-u-s-general-claims-correct-.html
North Korea  celebrated the 80th
anniversary of its military two days after threatening to turn
South Korea’s capital into ashes, with a senior general claiming
the totalitarian state’s weapons can defeat the U.S.  New leader Kim Jong Un, head of the 1.2 million-strong
military, attended a ceremony in Pyongyang to mark the
milestone, the official Korean Central State News Agency
reported today. Vice Marshal Ri Yong Ho said the army has
“powerful modern weapons” capable of defeating its enemies.  “We are able to continuously corner the U.S. and
forcefully retaliate to the enemy’s provocative schemes for
war,” Ri said, according to a transcript of his remarks from
South Korea’s Unification Ministry.  The commemoration is the latest in a series of festivities
surrounding the April 15 centennial of state founder  Kim Il
Sung ’s birth. North Korea unsuccessfully fired a rocket on April
13, prompting speculation that the government will detonate an
atomic device to compensate for the failure.  A North Korean military squad threatened to “soon” turn
South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  and his government to
“ashes in three or four minutes,” according to an April 23
KCNA statement. Kim’s regime has escalated its threats of
aggression against the South in the past month.  North Korea broke off an agreement to halt testing of
nuclear devices and long-range missiles after the U.S. canceled
food assistance in response to the botched launch. A North
Korean atomic test could come as early as today, NBC News
reported, citing unidentified U.S. officials.  ‘Provocative Actions’  “We strongly suggest that the North Koreans refrain from
engaging in any more hostile or provocative actions,” White
House spokesman  Jay Carney  told reporters yesterday.  South Korea  last week unveiled new cruise missiles that it
said could hit anywhere in the North. The military has deployed
the missiles and is preparing to ensure it can respond firmly to
North Korean provocations, Defense Ministry spokesman Kim Min
Seok said on April 19.  Lee the same day said South Korea needs “powerful weapons,
a strong mindset and the newest weapons that can overpower North
Korea.” His government asked the  United Nations Security
Council  to freeze assets of 19 North Korean institutions and
organizations, Yonhap News reported, citing an unidentified
person at the UN.  North Korea is already under UN sanctions after detonating
nuclear devices in 2006 and 2009. The  Security Council  censured
Kim’s government after this month’s rocket launch.  North Korea’s Arsenal  North Korea’s arsenal includes Scud, Rodong and Musudan
missiles. The Musudan has a range of more than 3,000 kilometers
(1,865 miles) and can carry a 650-kilogram warhead, according to
South Korean estimates. The country is trying to develop
missiles with a range of 6,700 kilometers that may eventually be
able to carry warheads weighing as much as 1,000 kilograms,
according to U.S. and South Korean estimates.  China , North Korea’s closest ally, yesterday expressed
“deep concern” over the latest developments on the Korean
peninsula and called for calm.  North and South Korea technically remain at war since their
1950-53 conflict ended without a peace treaty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  