-- Norway’s Arctic Oil Bonanza Gets Reality Check in Pipe Limbo
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   R e e d
-- 2012-04-26T15:57:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/norway-arctic-oil-bonanza-gets-reality-check-in-pipeline-limbo.html
Norway  is grappling with how to
turn last year’s oil and gas finds in the Arctic Circle into
real money as the world’s seventh-largest crude exporter seeks
to sustain output after more than 40 years of extraction.  Norway, whose oil finds in the  North Sea  starting in 1969
helped turn it into the world’s second-richest nation per capita
after Luxembourg, can’t waste time in deciding on how to
transport what it finds off its northern tip down south to the
rest of  Europe , Petroleum and Energy Ministry Ola Borten Moe
said at a conference in the Arctic town of Hammerfest this week.  The issue is “when we need more gas transportation
capacity, not whether,” he said.  Companies including  Statoil ASA (STL) , Norway’s largest oil
producer, and  Total SA (FP)  of  France , Europe’s third-biggest, last
year made commercial discoveries of oil and gas in the Barents
Sea, the first in more than a decade. Norway is moving into the
waters off its northern tip to boost output after oil production
fell by half in the past decade amid dwindling North Sea output.  The Nordic country also offered 72 new blocks in the
Barents Sea for exploration as part of its 22nd licensing round.
Statoil, which is 67 percent-owned by the Norwegian government,
signaled it may boost the pace of production at its Snohvit gas
field, the only producing deposit in the  Barents Sea , to free up
transport facilities and send more gas south.  The company would reduce the commercial life of Snohvit by
20 years to 2030 should it push ahead with plans to double
production capacity, spokesman Anders Ola Skauby said.  ‘From Scratch’  “We’re now starting to build a production cluster here
from scratch,” Oeystein Michelsen, Statoil’s executive vice
president of development and production in Norway, said on April
24 in Hammerfest. “The question is should we aim to produce
more so we can open up capacity for our new fields later.”  Statoil’s Snohvit sends gas to the Melkoeya plant in
Hammerfest where it’s turned into liquefied natural gas and put
on tankers for shipment as far away as  Japan . At issue is
whether Norway should invest in pipelines that will connect to
its network in the Norwegian and North Sea that is hooked up
with continental Europe.  Gassco AS, Norway’s gas network operator, in January
proposed a pipeline to tap the Barents Sea deposits. An analysis
of resources showed there may be a need for a 25 billion-krone
($4.4 billion) pipe to connect with existing facilities in the
Norwegian Sea by 2020, the operator said.  Russian Delays  Norway’s neighbor to the east, Russia, is also grappling
with the difficulties of Arctic oil development. In March,  OAO
Gazprom (GAZP) , Russia’s gas export monopoly, and its partners Total
and Statoil postponed a final  investment decision  on the Barents
Sea Shtokman gas project, adding to previous delays in part
because of high costs. The partners held off on an agreement,
saying they’re “confident the project can be improved further,
both technically and economically.”  Statoil’s discoveries at Skrugard last year and nearby
Havis may hold 600 million barrels of oil equivalent. Total’s
Norvarg discovery, announced in August, may hold 10 billion to
50 billion cubic meters of recoverable gas, according to the
 Norwegian Petroleum Directorate .  Helge Lund, chief executive officer at Statoil, had said
the industry had been unable to “crack the code” of the
Barents Sea after participating in more than 80 wells there
since 1980. Norway directly gets about 25 percent of its
economic output from oil and gas.  ‘Difficult Decision’  Shares in Statoil, based in Stavanger, have gained 5.1
percent during the last two years, underperforming a 27 percent
gain in the oil price on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
Statoil closed 1.3 percent higher at  153.20 kroner  Oslo, while
crude for June delivery was up 0.5 percent at $104.65 a barrel
as of 5:55 p.m. in the Norwegian capital, having yesterday
climbed to the highest level in more than a week.  “It’s a very difficult decision,” Michelsen said. “Do we
go for LNG, which we can export to countries willing to pay the
most, or do we build a pipeline to the south, which will create
opportunities for other actors.”  While output is waning in the North Sea, the area is also
vying for investments after Statoil and partners last year
discovered the Johan Sverdrup deposit, the country’s largest
find since 1974. It may hold 3.3 billion barrels of oil
equivalent, which has helped rekindle interest in the North Sea.  ‘Sea of Possibilities’  Norway produces about 100 billion cubic meters of gas a
year and is the second-biggest supplier to Europe after  Russia .
Norway, for example, supplied an average of 100 million cubic
meters a day to the U.K. from Jan. 10 to March 31, according to
Gassco. LNG terminals provided 33 million cubic meters.  Norway is likely to meet plenty of demand from willing
buyers. World energy demand will grow 20 percent to 50 percent
by 2035, meaning new discoveries must be made if only to replace
existing reserves, according to Statoil, which operates about 80
percent of Norwegian production.  The Barents Sea region could produce about 400,000 to
500,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day by 2020, more than
four times what Statoil gets from Snohvit today, Michelsen said.  Success may also open a gateway even farther north.  “The Barents Sea itself is a sea of possibilities,” he
said. “But it’s also the gateway to other parts of the Arctic.
What we do here and now gives us the competencies and experience
we need when we start developing even farther north.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Reed in Oslo at 
 areed12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  