-- Oaktree Said to Expect Closing on at Least $4 Billion
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-04-25T15:34:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/oaktree-said-to-expect-closing-on-at-least-4-billion.html
Oaktree Capital Group LLC (OAK) , the
world’s largest distressed-debt investor, expects to close on at
least $4 billion in May for its next distressed-debt fund,
according to three prospective investors.  The Los Angeles-based firm, which went public this month,
started raising Oaktree Opportunities Fund IX LP in October,
targeting $4 billion with a limit of $6 billion. The fund had
closed on around $1.1 billion by Feb. 16, said two of these
investors.  Oaktree is among a number of firms raising money to take
advantage of struggling economies in the U.S. and  Europe .  Apollo
Global Management LLC (APO)  has been marketing a fund to purchase
nonperforming loans in Europe and Avenue Capital has gathered
money for its second European distressed debt fund.  Oaktree, which also has a fund family that does control
deals for European companies, will be able to invest as much as
50 percent of capital from this fund outside of the U.S. and
 Canada , according to marketing materials from October.  The fund will primarily invest in secured debt obligations
such as publicly traded and privately placed debt securities,
bank loans and mortgages, unsecured debt obligations and equity
of U.S. companies, according to the document.  John Frank, managing principal at Oaktree, declined to
comment.  S&P Downgrade  When the U.S. was downgraded by Standard & Poor’s in the
third quarter, Oaktree Capital started investing the $2.7
billion supplementary fund to its $4.5 billion eighth fund,
raised in the summer of 2010. Fund VIII was producing a 1 times
multiple and 1.61 percent net internal rate of return as of
Sept. 30, according to performance data by the Washington State
Investment Board.  Two potential investors said the firm has not mentioned
raising a supplemental fund in its marketing for the new fund,
though it has the right to raise one if it chooses to.  Oaktree has been creating smaller funds since the OCM
Opportunities Fund VII LP, which was raised prior to the 2008
financial crisis and at its peak held more than $14 billion in
its main and supplemental funds. Oaktree ultimately decided
against deploying the last $1.1 billion of the supplemental fund
after opportunities waned in early 2009.  OCM Opportunities Fund VII LP was generating a 1.2 times
multiple and 6.32 percent net IRR as of Sept. 30, according to
performance data from Washington State Investment Board. The
supplemental fund, OCM Opportunities Fund VII B LP, was
producing a 1.5 times multiple and 16.72 percent net IRR.  Oaktree sold shares in an IPO on April 11. The stock has
declined 7.3 percent since then, to $39.86 at 11:31 a.m. in  New
York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  