-- Obama Presses on College Costs as Romney Vies for Youth Vote
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-04-25T21:22:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/obama-presses-on-college-costs-as-romney-vies-for-youth-vote-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  hit college
campuses and late-night television to urge Congress to freeze
student-loan interest rates as he engaged Republican  Mitt Romney 
in a competition for young voters.  Obama and Romney tailored their economic message to attract
college-age voters in what both sides say will be a close
election in November as graduates face a weak job market and a
ballooning debt load from education loans.  “We’ve been in your shoes,” Obama told students today at
the  University of Iowa  in Iowa City, his third and last stop on
a trip through three electoral battleground states. The
president said he and first lady  Michelle Obama  carried student
debt until about eight years ago. “We can’t price the middle
class out of a college education.”  Romney, who declared himself the Republican presidential
nominee last night after sweeping five primary contests, has
agreed with Obama on stopping the rise in  student-loan  rates
while blaming the administration for an economy in which “50
percent of recent college graduates are unemployed or
underemployed.”  With Obama drawing attention to the issue, Congress began
moving on legislation to prevent the loan rate from rising, with
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, and House
Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, promising legislation
this week.  Key Constituency  Voters age 18 to 29 were a key constituency for Obama in
the 2008 election, with national exit polls showing he received
66 percent of their vote. He holds a 17-percentage-point lead
over Romney among those voters in the current campaign,
according to an online survey by Harvard University’s Institute
of Politics.  Forty-three percent preferred Obama with 26 percent backing
Romney, according to the survey conducted from March 23 through
April 9, with 30 percent saying they are undecided. The margin
of error was plus or minus 1.7 percentage points.  Between speeches yesterday at the University of North
Carolina at  Chapel Hill  and the University of  Colorado  in
Boulder, Obama, 50, taped an appearance on NBC’s “Late Night
With  Jimmy Fallon ” to emphasize his message.  Coinciding with the trip to the three campuses, Rolling
Stone magazine put the president on its cover and published an
interview with Obama.  Election Contrast  Obama told the publication that Republicans in Congress and
on the presidential campaign trail have moved “far out of the
mainstream” of voters, and that will provide a “sharp”
contrast for the general election. Reflecting his broader
campaign strategy, Obama indicated he would seek to paint Romney
as extreme on issues such as regulation, immigration and the
budget that played prominently in the primary campaign.  “I don’t think that their nominee is going to be able to
suddenly say, ‘Everything I’ve said for the last six months, I
didn’t mean,’” Obama said in Rolling Stone. “I’m assuming that
he meant it.”  Romney’s campaign went on the offensive before Obama left
 Washington  yesterday morning.  “Four years ago, the president was able to fool a number
of our college students into supporting his campaign, and the
result has been the highest level of  unemployment  for youth in
our country’s recorded history,” Hank Brown, a former
Republican U.S. senator who also served as president of the
 University of Colorado , said on a conference call organized by
the campaign.  Republican Appeal  Brown predicted a “dramatic turnaround” on college
campuses with larger numbers voting for Republican candidates,
including Romney, who he said is “younger and more dynamic”
than the party’s 2008 nominee, Senator  John McCain , who was 72
at the time of the election. Romney is 65.  Boehner today accused Obama of “trying to invent a fight”
over the student-loan  interest rate .  “We can and will fix the problem without a lot of
campaign-style theatrics,” he told reporters in Washington.  Obama sought to show the students he identifies with their
financial plight. Without mentioning his rival’s name, he also
drew a distinction with Romney, who helped form the private-
equity firm Bain Capital LLC in  Boston  and is the son of a
former auto industry executive. He said in  North Carolina  that
he and Michelle Obama “didn’t come from families of means.”  Not ‘Talking Points’  “I didn’t just get some talking points on this,” Obama
told the crowd at the university’s Carmichael Arena. Obama drew
cheers and shouts of “four more years” from the crowd before
and after the speech.  The three states Obama is visiting were crucial to his 2008
victory. Iowa and Colorado have been swing states, while Obama’s
win in North Carolina was the first by a Democratic presidential
candidate since 1976.  The president first proposed the student loan rate freeze
in his fiscal 2013 budget.  The rate will increase to 6.8
percent on July 1 from 3.4 percent unless lawmakers act. The two
parties still have to work out differences over paying for the
rate freeze, which the Congressional Budget Office estimates
will cost $6 billion.  The increase would affect about 7.4 million students,
according to the White House, adding an average of $1,000 a year
in payments.  Romney said he wants Obama and Congress to extend the
freeze “responsibly” by offsetting the cost in “a way that
doesn’t harm the job prospects of young Americans.”  College Costs  Obama also is calling on Congress to increase funding for
work-study programs and extend a tuition tax credit.  The average cost of tuition and fees at a public, four-year
college has almost tripled since the 1995-1996 academic year and
has more than doubled for a private-school education, according
to data from the  College Board , a New York-based nonprofit group
whose members include universities.  Educational-loan debt has ballooned to $1 trillion,
surpassing the amount owed on credit cards in the U.S.,
according to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. That
includes federally backed and private loans taken out by
students and their parents to pay for college and graduate
school.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in  Iowa  City, Iowa, at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  