-- Obama Threatens Veto on House Cybersecurity Bill
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-04-25T21:28:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/obama-threatens-veto-on-house-cybersecurity-bill.html
President  Barack Obama ’s
administration threatened to veto a cybersecurity bill set for a
House vote this week, saying it would erode privacy safeguards
and not do enough to protect critical U.S. systems.  The administration “strongly opposes” the Cyber
Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act in its current form and
Obama’s senior advisers would recommend that he veto the
measure, according to a policy statement from the Office of
Management and Budget today.  The bill, introduced by Representative Mike Rogers, a
Michigan Republican who’s chairman of the House Intelligence
Committee, would encourage the government and companies to
voluntarily share information on cyber threats. It would give
companies immunity from civil and criminal actions arising from
the exchange of such data. The bill is endorsed by House
Republican leaders and scheduled for a House vote on April 27.  “H.R. 3523 fails to provide authorities to ensure that the
nation’s core critical infrastructure is protected while
repealing important provisions of electronic surveillance law
without instituting corresponding privacy, confidentiality and
civil liberties safeguards,” the administration said in the
statement.  Civil liberties groups have said the Rogers bill would give
the government too much access to people’s personal data and
doesn’t limit uses of that information.  Rogers Concern  Obama advisers including  Howard Schmidt , the White House
cybersecurity coordinator, have said information-sharing alone
cannot provide adequate protection against hackers and spies.
The White House supports a bill from Senator  Joseph Lieberman , a
Connecticut Independent, that would put the Department of
 Homeland Security  in charge of regulating cybersecurity of the
nation’s vital systems and networks such as power grids.  “The basis for the administration’s view is mostly based
on the lack of critical-infrastructure regulation, something
outside of our jurisdiction,” Rogers and the House Intelligence
Committee’s senior Democrat, C.A. “Dutch” Ruppersberger of
 Maryland , said in an e-mailed statement.  The lawmakers said the bill’s sponsors agreed yesterday to
amendments that “address nearly every single one of the
criticisms leveled by the administration, particularly those
regarding privacy and civil liberties of Americans.”  Ruppersberger is a co-sponsor of the legislation along with
more than 100 other House members from both parties.  ‘Bridge Too Far’  The  American Civil Liberties Union , which took part in a
Web protest last week against the Rogers bill, known as CISPA,
said it agreed with the Obama administration.  “The White House is right: CISPA threatens fundamental
notions of privacy and without a substantial rewrite should be
voted down,” Michelle Richardson, the ACLU’s legislative
counsel, said in an e-mail. “The Obama administration has
endorsed the Patriot Act and other wiretapping laws. It speaks
volumes that even they oppose this bill as a bridge too far.”  Asked about Obama’s veto threat, House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, told reporters today that the
president wants to put “the government in charge of the
Internet.”  The Rogers information-sharing bill is one of four
cybersecurity measures scheduled for House votes this week. The
chamber is set to vote tomorrow on bills on updating federal
information-security controls and coordinating government
research and development on cybersecurity. The Rogers measure
may be voted on April 27.  Lieberman and three other sponsors of his proposed
legislation said in an e-mailed statement they “are
disappointed that none of the House bills addresses the most
glaring vulnerability in our cyber defenses: adequately
protecting our most critical, privately-owned infrastructure.”  Lieberman, Republican  Susan Collins  of  Maine  and Democrats
 Jay Rockefeller  of  West Virginia  and  Dianne Feinstein  of
California also said that “the Senate is committed to passing
comprehensive cybersecurity legislation because the threat we
face to our economic and national security demands it.”  The Lieberman bill is S. 2105.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  