-- Oil Rises After Fed Says U.S. Economy Will Pick Up
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-04-25T19:45:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/oil-retreats-as-iran-considers-halting-nuclear-program-ex.html
Oil capped the longest rally in two
months after Federal Reserve policy makers said they expect
growth to accelerate gradually and held off on more steps to
boost the economy.  Futures climbed 0.6 percent and equities rose as the
 Federal Open Market Committee  said it “expects economic growth
to remain moderate over coming quarters and then to pick up
gradually.” Crude fell earlier as U.S. supplies gained and
Iran’s envoy in Moscow said his country is considering a
proposal to halt the expansion of its nuclear program.  “We’re seeing an impact of the Fed statement in all the
markets,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC, a
New York-based hedge fund that focuses on energy. “The fact
that the economy is expected to grow is good for demand. They
also left room for stimulus at some point in the future.”  Crude oil for June delivery rose 57 cents to $104.12 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , a one-week high.
Prices have advanced 1.8 percent in the past four days, the
longest rally since the period ended Feb. 24. Futures are up 5.4
percent this year.  Brent oil for June settlement increased 96 cents, or 0.8
percent, to end the session at $119.12 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange. It was the highest settlement
since April 13.  The Fed remains prepared to take additional action if
needed to boost the economy, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said at a
press conference today following the FOMC meeting in  Washington .  Equity Increase  Equities also advanced as earnings beat estimates at
companies including Apple Inc. and  Boeing Co. (BA)  The  Standard &
Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index was up 1.3 percent and the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  was 0.6 percent higher.  “Equities are quite strong, which is giving us a boost,”
said Kyle Cooper, director of IAF Advisors, a Houston-based
consulting firm. “There’s a strong correlation between the
equity and oil markets.”  Crude inventories  rose 3.98 million barrels to 373 million
last week as output climbed to a 12-year high. Stockpiles were
projected to increase 2.8 million barrels in the week ended
April 20, according to the median of 11 analyst estimates in a
Bloomberg survey.  U.S. crude oil  production  grew 70,000 barrels to 6.11
million barrels a day last week, the highest level since
November 1999, the report showed.  Iranian Tension  Oil in New York reached $110.55 on March 1, the highest
intraday level since May 4, amid speculation that Western
sanctions aimed at halting  Iran ’s nuclear program would disrupt
Middle East shipments. Prices have fallen 5.8 percent since that
peak since tensions have eased.  “Oil will drop $5 to $10 if the Iranian nuclear crisis is
resolved,” said David McAlvany, chief executive officer of
McAlvany Financial Group in Durango, Colorado. “Investors
mustn’t be taking either the Russian offer or Iranian statement
all that seriously.”  Iran is studying a Russian proposal to halt the expansion
of its nuclear program to avert new sanctions, Mahmoud Reza Sajjadi, the Iranian ambassador to  Russia , said in an interview
today at the embassy in Moscow. The plan, announced by Deputy
Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov last week, would allow Iran to
avoid a European Union ban on imports of its crude that is
scheduled to start July 1.  Russian Plan  Under the Russian proposal, Iran would stop building
centrifuges, machines used to enrich uranium, and mothball ones
that haven’t been put into use yet.  “There is very little information about the Russian
proposal,” said  Mike Wittner , head of oil market research at
Societe Generale SA in  New York . “I’m dismissing it because
there have been many failed proposals.”  Iran, the second-biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, pumped 3.39 million barrels of
oil a day last month, the lowest level since June 2002,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Saudi Arabia  is the
leading producer.  “Any resolution of the dispute between Iran and Europe
could see much lower prices, heading toward $100 a barrel,”
said Ehsan Ul-Haq, senior market consultant at KBC Energy
Economics in Walton-on-Thames,  England . “If they are able to
find a solution that suits both sides, then Brent is likely to
fall to between $100 to $110 a barrel in a matter of days.”  Electronic crude trading volume of on the Nymex was 490,111
contracts as of 3:45 p.m. Volume totaled 369,531 contracts
yesterday, the lowest level since March 26 and 41 percent below
the three-month average. Open interest was 1.54 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  