-- Oil Near One-Week High as Fed Sees U.S. Economy Growing
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-04-26T07:08:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/oil-trades-near-weekly-high-on-demand-outlook-after-fed.html
Oil traded near the highest level
in a week after Federal Reserve policy makers said they expect
growth to accelerate, boosting speculation fuel demand will
rise.  Iran  said it may halt its nuclear expansion.  Futures were little changed in New York after gaining 0.6
percent yesterday. Economic growth is expected to “remain
moderate over coming quarters and then to pick up gradually,”
the  Federal Open Market Committee  said in a statement. Prices
declined earlier after  U.S. supplies gained  more than forecast
and Iran’s envoy in Moscow said his country may halt the
expansion of its atomic program to avert new Western sanctions.  “The FOMC moderately upgraded their growth estimates which
reinforced the general view the market is operating on, that you
will see a solid demand outlook from the U.S.,” said Ric Spooner, a chief market analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney. The
reaction to the Iran report “reflects the fact that traders and
investors putting their money on the line want to see far more
compelling evidence that it was actually happening,” he said.  Crude for June delivery was at $104.11 a barrel, down 1
cent, in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange
at 3:06 p.m. Singapore time. The contract yesterday rose 57
cents to $104.12, the highest close since April 17. Front-month
futures have climbed for four days, the longest winning streak
in two months. Prices are 5.3 percent higher this year.  Brent oil for June settlement was at $118.87 a barrel, down
25 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark contract’s front month  premium  to West Texas
Intermediate was at $14.76, from $15 yesterday.  Technical Resistance  Oil’s gain in New York is stalling as futures approach
technical resistance along the top of a downtrend channel going
back about two months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
This level is around $104.23 a barrel today. Sell orders tend to
be clustered near chart-resistance levels.  Prices will stay above $100 a barrel even as economic
growth slows, according to  Mirae Asset  Securities Ltd.  “While we still expect  oil prices  to soften, we don’t see
a collapse scenario,”  Gordon Kwan , head of regional energy
research at Mirae Asset in  Hong Kong , said in a report e-mailed
today. “Mirae continues to believe that the $100 a barrel oil
price is here to stay.”  Crude has climbed this year amid speculation that tension
with Iran over its nuclear program may disrupt Middle East
supplies. The Islamic Republic is considering a Russian proposal
to stop building centrifuges, or machines used to enrich
uranium, and mothball ones that haven’t been put into use yet,
Iranian Ambassador Mahmoud-Reza Sajjadi said in Moscow
yesterday.  Japan Crude Imports  Efforts to resolve the dispute will be complicated if the
European Union goes ahead with an embargo on the nation’s
petroleum exports from July 1, Sajjadi said.  Separately,  Japan  said its crude imports from Iran fell 6.3
percent in March from a year ago. Purchases were 1.8 million
kiloliters, compared with 1.9 million kiloliters in March 2011,
according to data today from the Ministry of Finance. Imports
climbed from 1.2 million kiloliters in February.  U.S. crude inventories rose 3.98 million barrels to 373
million last week as output climbed to a 12-year high, according
to the Energy Department. They were projected to increase  2.8
million barrels , according to the median of 11 analyst estimates
in a Bloomberg survey.  Stockpiles of gasoline decreased 2.2 million barrels,
Energy Department data showed. They were forecast to fall 1.5
million barrels, the survey shows. Distillate supplies, a
category that includes heating oil and diesel, dropped 3.1
million compared with an estimated 500,000 barrel gain.  Gasoline slid for the eighth time in nine days after the
report showed deliveries to wholesalers dropped 3.2 percent to a
five-week low. Prices for May delivery fell 0.36 cent to $3.1557
a gallon on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  