-- Oil Trades Near One-Week High; Goldman Sees Demand Gain
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-04-25T12:40:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/oil-trades-near-one-week-high-goldman-sees-demand-gain.html
Oil rose to its highest level in a
week in  New York  after the  American Petroleum Institute  said
crude inventories fell in the U.S., the world’s biggest consumer
of the commodity.  U.S. stockpiles decreased by 985,000 barrels last week, the
industry-funded API said. An Energy Department report today is
forecast to show a gain of 2.8 million barrels. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. said crude prices will rise as demand growth outpaces
production capacity and that increased output by  Saudi Arabia ,
the biggest producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, has left the group’s spare capacity at less than 1
million barrels a day.  “There might be some speculative buying ahead of the
Energy Department numbers,” said  Eugen Weinberg , head of
commodities research at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , who last
month correctly predicted prices had peaked in the short term.
“U.S. demand remains weak before the driving season, and
inventories high, so in the absence of the geopolitical issues,
markets would justify lower prices.”  Crude for June delivery advanced as much as 94 cents, or
0.9 percent, to $104.49 a barrel in electronic trading on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange . That’s the highest since April 18.
The contract was at $104.31 at 1:32 p.m. London time. Prices are
up 5.4 percent this year.  Brent oil for June settlement gained as much as $1.09 to
$119.25 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The European benchmark contract was at a premium of
$14.70 to U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude, little changed
from yesterday.  Downward Trend  Oil’s advance in New York may stall as futures remain in a
technical downward trend, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. On the daily chart, the top of a downward-sloping
channel extending back about two months is $104.38 a barrel
today and represents technical resistance, where sell orders
tend to be clustered.  Gasoline stockpiles decreased 3.64 million barrels and
distillate-fuel inventories dropped 3.56 million barrels, the
API’s weekly report showed. Today’s Energy Department data may
show a 1.5 million-barrel decline in gasoline supplies,
according to the median of 11 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey of analysts. Distillates are predicted to gain 500,000
barrels.  The government requires that reports be filed with the
Energy Department for its weekly survey. The API collects
information on a voluntary basis from operators of refineries,
bulk terminals and pipelines.  Goldman View  Oil prices  will rise as demand is expanding faster than
production capacity even as the global economy slows,  Goldman
Sachs (GS)  said in a report e-mailed today.  “It is only a matter of time before inventories and OPEC
spare capacity become effectively exhausted, requiring higher
oil prices to restrain demand,” said  Jeffrey Currie , head of
commodities research at Goldman Sachs in London.  The bank reiterated a recommendation to buy September
futures for West Texas Intermediate oil.  The  International Energy Agency  said on April 12 in its
most recent monthly Oil Market Report that OPEC’s “effective”
spare capacity declined to an estimated 2.54 million barrels a
day in March from 2.75 million the previous month. That figure
excludes Iraq, Nigeria, Libya and  Iran , said the IEA, an adviser
to the world’s biggest industrialized nations.  Gasoline Prices  U.S. gasoline prices at the pump fell below year-earlier
levels for the first time since at least October 2009, according
to data from AAA, the largest U.S. motoring club. The  national
average price  for regular gasoline slid 0.9 cent on April 23 to
$3.849 a gallon, according to Heathrow, Florida-based AAA.
That’s down from $3.86 a year earlier and the lowest level since
March 19.  Demand for the motor fuel was little changed last week and
lower than consumption a year earlier, according to MasterCard
Inc. Drivers bought 60.81 million barrels of gasoline in the
week ended April 20, versus 60.8 million the week before,
MasterCard’s SpendingPulse report showed. That was 6.1 percent
below the year-earlier level, the 34th straight decline in that
measure.  Arabian Gulf  Oil Co.,  Libya ’s largest crude producer,
warned that it may have to cease production because of protests,
according to the state-run Libya News Agency. Arabian Gulf, or
Agoco, will have to shut its  oil fields  if protesters blocking
the entrance to its offices in Benghazi do not disperse, Jalil
Mayouf, a company spokesman, was quoted by Libya News as saying.
He didn’t explain why fields hundreds of miles away from the
office would be shut.  The demonstrators are demanding jobs for unemployed young
people and greater transparency on  government spending . Agoco
said last month that it expected to reach full capacity of
425,000 barrels a day by the end of April, or about 25 percent
of Libya’s pre-war output of 1.6 million barrels a day.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  