-- Hollande Vows Not to Ratify Euro Pact, Auguring Merkel Clash
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-04-25T16:40:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/hollande-says-france-won-t-ratify-euro-fiscal-pact-as-it-stands.html
French Socialist Francois Hollande,
the leading presidential candidate, said  France  won’t ratify the
European agreement pushed by  Germany  to tighten budget rules if
he’s elected.  “There will be a re-negotiation,” Hollande told
journalists today in Paris. “Either there will be a new treaty,
or there will be a modification of the existing treaty. It’s
about negotiation.”  The comments put Hollande on a collision course with German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel , who has championed debt reduction as
the key to ending the region’s fiscal crisis. Hollande, who has
also pledged to eliminate France’s budget deficit, is aiming to
use popular support at home to strengthen his hand in talks to
promote an alternative.  Merkel and her ruling party are standing firm on German-led
remedies, including the commitment to cut debt that was signed
last month by all 17 euro-area leaders, among them Hollande’s
opponent, President  Nicolas Sarkozy .  “If Mr. Hollande were to say that he wants to increase
 government spending  and save less, he’ll lose the confidence of
the financial markets,”  Peter Altmaier , the parliamentary whip
of Merkel’s  Christian Democrats , said in an interview in Berlin
yesterday. “We will stick to our fundamental principles because
there’s really no alternative.”  Hollande finished first among 10 candidates in the first
round of France’s presidential election with 28.6 percent of the
vote. Incumbent President Nicolas Sarkozy finished second with
27.2 percent. The two face off in a decisive electoral contest
on May 6.  Resistance Growing  Germany, the largest country contributor to euro-area
bailouts, is facing growing resistance from traditional allies
to its anti-crisis prescriptions as a $1 trillion firewall and
unlimited European Central Bank loans to the region’s lenders
fail to stop the turmoil from threatening Spain and  Italy .  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said it’s too early to talk
about a plan for weaning the euro area off emergency measures.
“Any exit strategy is premature given the current situation,”
Draghi told lawmakers in Brussels today.  Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  urged politicians yesterday
to tackle the country’s economic woes after his coalition
collapsed over proposed budget cuts, raising investor concern
about his country’s ability to retain its AAA credit rating. A
proposal on austerity measures will be sent to parliament today.  European ‘Credibility’  Merkel, who faces two German state elections next month and
a national election in the fall of 2013, joined with Sarkozy to
craft the euro area’s crisis response over the past year and
backed him for re-election. She insisted on the need for
austerity yesterday, saying  Europe ’s “credibility” depends on
reducing deficits and debt.  “We’re not saying that saving solves all problems,” she
told a conference in Berlin. Still, “you can’t spend more than
you take in. You can’t live your whole life this way. Everybody
knows this.”  The euro strengthened for a second day against the dollar
and yen, rising 0.1 percent to $1.3207 at 6:25 p.m. in Paris.
The  risk premium  for 10-year French bonds over German bunds of
similar maturity declined for a second day after reaching the
highest level since January on April 23.  Merkel may cede ground to austerity critics if the Social
Democrats, the main German opposition party, increase their
support in May’s state elections as polls suggest, said Thomas Costerg, an economist at Standard Chartered Bank in  London .  ‘Last Bastion’  If Hollande becomes French president and Merkel switches
allies to govern with the  Social Democrats  after the German
election in 2013, that “may further help to make views
converge,” he said in an e-mail. “The last bastion of
austerity could remain the Bundesbank.”  Hollande has said he’ll seek to add growth and investment
measures to the fiscal treaty signed by Merkel, Sarkozy and 23
other EU leaders on March 2.  If he’s elected, his first visit will be to meet Merkel, so
he can bring her “French people’s vote for another Europe,”
Hollande said last night.  Merkel “is pretty resistant to pressure,” Altmaier said.
France’s presidential vote and the Dutch government’s collapse
don’t change the fact that “there’s no money in Europe, only
deficits everywhere you look. Knowing the chancellor, she will
await the outcome in France and then we’ll try to come to an
understanding with the new government, whoever leads it.”  Spain, Greece  Europe’s front against austerity has expanded in recent
weeks after  Spain  struggled to meet EU-imposed deficit targets,
election campaigns in  Greece  faced anti-austerity rumblings and
the revolt against extra spending cuts in the Netherlands, a
traditional German ally, pushed Rutte’s coalition toward an
early breakup. The Netherlands is one of four remaining AAA
states in the euro area.  For all the turbulence, “nothing has happened in recent
weeks that would raise questions” about the need for area
countries to overhaul their economies and cut debt, German
Deputy Finance Minister Hartmut Koschyk said in an interview.  No financial backstop is big enough to arrest the debt
crisis and hold down borrowing costs on its own, he said. “It
doesn’t matter,” he said yesterday. “It is no substitute for
structural reforms” because “the readiness of markets to
tolerate out-of-control public debt has vanished.”  Holland also said that he’d like the European Stability
Mechanism to be backed by the ECB in order to increase its
lending capacity.  “I’d like the ESM to have a link with the ECB so it can
have the necessary firepower,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  