-- Hollande Aims at Merkel in Escalating Debt-Crisis Critique
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-04-25T09:11:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/hollande-aims-fire-at-merkel-in-escalating-debt-crisis-critique.html
French Socialist Francois Hollande
escalated his criticism of Europe’s debt-crisis response by
aiming his fire directly at the duo of German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and his campaign opponent, President  Nicolas Sarkozy .  “Merkel has led Europe with Sarkozy and we can measure the
results,” he said late yesterday on France’s TF1 television.
“If I am elected president, there will be a change in the focus
of Europe’s construction. Enough free market, limitless
competition, enough austerity.”  The challenge to Sarkozy on crisis management leadership
underscores Hollande’s confidence he can turn his poll lead into
victory on May 6 and reflects increased opposition to Merkel’s
austerity prescription to settle Europe’s financial woes.  As Europe’s two largest economies head toward potential
conflict over quashing the crisis, Merkel and her ruling party
stood firm on German-led remedies, including the debt-cutting
fiscal pact signed last month by all 17 euro-area leaders.
German officials also took aim at Hollande as they reiterated
Merkel’s backing for Sarkozy.  “If Mr. Hollande were to say that he wants to increase
 government spending  and save less, he’ll lose the confidence of
the financial markets,”  Peter Altmaier , the parliamentary whip
of Merkel’s  Christian Democrats , said in an interview in Berlin
yesterday. “We will stick to our fundamental principles because
there’s really no alternative.”  Resistance Growing  Germany , the largest country contributor to euro-area
bailouts, is facing growing resistance from traditional allies
to its anti-crisis prescriptions as a $1 trillion firewall and
unlimited European Central Bank loans to the region’s lenders
fail to stop the turmoil from threatening  Spain  and  Italy .  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said it’s too early to talk
about a plan for weaning the euro area off emergency measures.
“Any exit strategy is premature given the current situation,”
Draghi told lawmakers in Brussels today.  Hollande said two days ago that budget austerity across
 Europe  is “bringing desperation to people” and that he’ll
refocus the economy on growth if he wins.  Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  urged politicians yesterday
to tackle the country’s economic woes after his coalition
collapsed over proposed budget cuts, raising investor concern
about his country’s ability to retain its AAA credit rating. A
proposal on austerity measures will be sent to parliament today.  European ‘Credibility’  Merkel, who faces two German state elections next month and
a national election in the fall of 2013, joined with Sarkozy to
craft the euro area’s crisis response over the past year and
backed him for re-election. She insisted on the need for
austerity yesterday, saying Europe’s “credibility” depends on
reducing deficits and debt.  “We’re not saying that saving solves all problems,” she
told a conference in Berlin. Still, “you can’t spend more than
you take in. You can’t live your whole life this way. Everybody
knows this.”  The euro strengthened for a second day against the dollar
and yen, rising 0.2 percent to $1.3218 at 10:54 a.m. Berlin time
as stock gains spurred demand for higher-yielding assets. The
 risk premium  for 10-year French bonds over German bunds of
similar maturity declined for a second day after reaching the
highest level since January on April 23.  Merkel may cede ground to austerity critics if the Social
Democrats, the main German opposition party, increase their
support in May’s state elections as polls suggest, said Thomas Costerg, an economist at Standard Chartered Bank in  London .  ‘Last Bastion’  If Hollande becomes French president and Merkel switches
allies to govern with the Social Democrats after the German
election in 2013, that “may further help to make views
converge,” he said in an e-mail. “The last bastion of
austerity could remain the Bundesbank.”  Hollande has said he’ll seek to add growth and investment
measures to the fiscal treaty signed by Merkel, Sarkozy and 23
other EU leaders on March 2.  If he’s elected, his first visit will be to meet Merkel, so
he can bring her “French people’s vote for another Europe,”
Hollande said last night.  Merkel “is pretty resistant to pressure,” Altmaier said.
 France ’s presidential vote and the Dutch government’s collapse
don’t change the fact that “there’s no money in Europe, only
deficits everywhere you look. Knowing the chancellor, she will
await the outcome in France and then we’ll try to come to an
understanding with the new government, whoever leads it.”  Spain, Greece  Europe’s front against austerity has expanded in recent
weeks after Spain struggled to meet EU-imposed deficit targets,
election campaigns in  Greece  faced anti-austerity rumblings and
the revolt against extra spending cuts in the Netherlands, a
traditional German ally, pushed Rutte’s coalition toward an
early breakup. The Netherlands is one of four remaining AAA
states in the euro area.  For all the turbulence, “nothing has happened in recent
weeks that would raise questions” about the need for area
countries to overhaul their economies and cut debt, German
Deputy Finance Minister Hartmut Koschyk said in an interview.  No financial backstop is big enough to arrest the debt
crisis and hold down borrowing costs on its own, he said. “It
doesn’t matter,” he said yesterday. “It is no substitute for
structural reforms” because “the readiness of markets to
tolerate out-of-control public debt has vanished.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  