-- Home Values in Most Large U.S. Cities Bottoming, Zillow Says
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-04-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/home-values-in-most-large-u-s-cities-bottoming-zillow-says.html
Home values in more than half of
major U.S. markets will probably reach a bottom by December as
the five-year slide in prices comes to an end, according to a
forecast by  Zillow Inc. (Z)   Nineteen of 30 large metropolitan areas have already
reached a floor or will by late 2012, the Seattle-based property
data provider said in a report today. Among the regions that are
at the bottom, Phoenix and Miami are poised to have the largest
price increases through March 2013, gaining 6.5 percent and 5.6
percent, respectively. Atlanta will have the steepest decline,
falling 4.1 percent, the company projected.  The U.S. housing market, bolstered by  job growth , has shown
some improvement. Home values nationwide climbed 0.5 percent in
March from February, the biggest monthly increase since May
2006, according to the seasonally adjusted Zillow Home Value
Index. Prices are 25 percent below the May 2007 peak and will be
little changed through the end of the year, the company said.  “I remain cautiously optimistic about the full year of
2012, and the first-quarter numbers are very encouraging,”  Stan Humphries , Zillow’s chief economist, said in a telephone
interview. “The bottom in home values is in sight.”  Any recovery might be threatened if the pickup in
employment falters, he said.  Markets that have reached the low point include  Los
Angeles , Dallas, Philadelphia,  Washington , Boston and Denver,
according to the report. The New York metro area’s trough will
come in the second quarter, followed by Baltimore and Las Vegas
in the third quarter, Zillow projected.  San Francisco, Seattle  Chicago ,  San Francisco , Cleveland, Seattle, Atlanta and
Charlotte in North Carolina are among the 11 areas that won’t
reach a floor in 2012, the company said.  Home prices  in 20 U.S. cities dropped 3.5 percent in
February, the smallest year-over-year decline since February
2011, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller  index  released
yesterday.  The  Federal Housing Finance Agency  yesterday said property
values rose 0.3 percent on a seasonally adjusted basis from
January to February. Prices climbed 0.4 percent from February
2011, the first gain since the 12 months through July 2007.  Zillow’s index measures the value of 100 million homes,
whether or not they’ve sold, and calculates the median. Other
gauges, such as the the Case-Shiller index, include only sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  