-- TomTom Reports Unexpected Quarterly Loss on Sales Decline
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2012-04-25T08:53:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/tomtom-reports-unexpected-quarterly-loss-on-sales-decline.html
TomTom NV (TOM2) ,  Europe ’s largest maker
of portable navigation devices, reported an unexpected first-
quarter loss after it took a charge for a software bug and as
sales to carmakers dropped.  The net loss was 1.5 million euros ($2 million) compared
with profit of 10.6 million euros a year earlier, Amsterdam-
based TomTom said today in a statement. Analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg this month after the software fault was announced
estimated profit of 450,000 euros. Sales fell 12 percent to 233
million euros.  “The economic headwind in southern Europe impacted
consumer and automotive revenue in the quarter,” Chief
Executive Officer Harold Goddijn said in the statement. “We saw
consumer discretionary spending decline,” and car manufacturers
responded by reducing production.  TomTom took a provision of 13 million euros in the quarter
related to a “leap-year” bug in the software of a GPS receiver
provided by a third party, Chief Financial Officer Marina Wyatt
said on a conference call. The fault caused some TomTom products
to stop functioning properly after March 31. The charge hurt
adjusted earnings per share by 5 cents.  “The costs related to the bug are much higher than I
expected,” said Jos Versteeg, an analyst at Theodoor Gilissen,
who said he had “penciled in a couple of millions” in charges
in his estimate. “If you take out the impact, the results
weren’t that bad at all.” Versteeg recommends holding TomTom
stock.  Stock Recovers  TomTom  rose  as much as 3.2 percent to 3.59 euros and was
trading up 2.9 percent at 10:52 a.m. in Amsterdam, reversing a
drop of as much as 6.6 percent earlier today. The stock has
fallen 43 percent in the past 12 months.  The company, which once dominated the navigation industry
before  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  took market share with similar
services on smartphones, is trying to boost sales of built-in
navigation systems for vehicles as well as electronic maps and
other software.  TomTom extended a partnership during the quarter with
Renault SA,  France ’s second-biggest carmaker, for a multimedia
system and signed a deal for the Chinese market with Qoros Auto,
which will equip its cars as of 2013 with TomTom products.  “We are in talks with more carmakers, from Europe, the
U.S. and  China , about products for the Chinese market,” Goddijn
said in an interview by phone. TomTom is unlikely to see a gain
in revenue from the Chinese agreement before 2013.  Job Cuts  Goddijn initiated an overhaul last year that includes
cutting 457 jobs, or about 10 percent of the  workforce , with the
aim of saving 50 million euros in 2012.  The company reiterated a forecast today that sales will
fall to about 1.1 billion euros in 2012 from 1.27 billion euros
in 2011 and that adjusted earnings per share will drop to about
35 cents per share from 55 cents.  Goddijn declined today to comment on a report by Dutch
magazine Management Team on April 20 that TomTom may delist its
stock as the four founders, including Goddijn, were said to be
considering making an offer for the remaining shares. TomTom
shares jumped as much as 24 percent that day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  