-- Honeywell Breakthrough Seen Transforming Plastics Industry: Tech
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-04-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/honeywell-breakthrough-seen-transforming-plastics-industry-tech.html
Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  has
discovered a one-step process to convert household natural gas
into a plastics raw material. The implications are far-reaching.  The technology in time could ease a glut of natural gas
from U.S. shale drilling; lower the cost of products ranging
from soda bottles to paint; and give Honeywell a steady profit
stream from licensing the technique in the $150 billion plastics
raw-material industry.  The process would allow companies to make ethylene -- the
substance from which plastic and other materials are created --
from methane, commonly known as natural gas. Ethylene is now
produced from ethane, which is found alongside natural gas and
costs three times as much. Ethylene can also come from naphthas
in oil refining, which are more expensive than ethane.  Commercially viable gas-to-ethylene conversion is the
industry’s “holy grail,” making methane more versatile at a
time when natural gas is abundant and cheap because of shale
drilling, said  Gotz Veser , a chemical engineering professor at
the  University of Pittsburgh . Burned mostly as a fuel, natural
gas closed yesterday at $1.98 per million British thermal units,
compared with $13.58 at a July 2008 pre-recession peak.  “The industry has been looking for efficient ways to turn
methane into higher hydrocarbons directly for decades,” said
Veser, who has written more than three dozen papers on the
subject. “Nobody has been able to come up with an economical
process.”  Seeking Partners  Honeywell’s approach, proved in the laboratory by the
company’s UOP petrochemical unit, won’t be marketable for
several years.  Morris Township , New Jersey-based Honeywell is
designing and seeking partners for a pilot plant.  “This will basically for the first time take natural gas
and directly convert it to a chemical, not through a multistage
process,” UOP Chief Executive Officer Rajeev Gautam said. “At
this point we have enough proof of principle, enough testing
done that you can probably detect the excitement in my voice.”  Direct conversion has so far met with limited success
because methane molecules are extremely stable. Once a reaction
starts, it’s difficult to stop at the desired chemical, such as
ethylene, before the methane breaks down further into low-value
carbon and hydrogen gas, Veser said. Methane can now be
converted to synthesis gas and then to methanol, which can be
turned into ethylene. Those steps require more investment.  “We have completed proof-of-concept experimental work and
have seen good yields and performance,” Gautam said. “The next
step is to start working on development and scale-up of the
technology.”  Reducing Production Costs  He said UOP’s process using natural gas would save about 40
percent from the cost of ethane-based ethylene production at
current prices. Ethane for May delivery traded yesterday at the
equivalent of $7.16 per million Btu, according to Jason Miner, a
senior chemicals analyst with Bloomberg Industries.  Sales at UOP, part of the specialty materials division,
rose 24 percent to $1.93 billion in 2011, or 5.3 percent of
Honeywell’s $36.5 billion total. The parent company’s shares
climbed 10 percent this year through yesterday, topping the 8.8
percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Industrials Index.  Plastics were first primarily made from the byproducts of
oil refining and later in the U.S. from lighter feedstocks such
as ethane. Producers recently have been switching more to use
ethane as an ethylene feedstock as prices drop relative to crude
with the boom of U.S. natural gas production.  Dow’s Investment  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  said April 19 it will build a $1.7 billion
plant in Freeport,  Texas , to produce ethylene from ethane and
other natural-gas liquids, with operations starting in 2017.
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Chevron Phillips Chemical Co.,  Sasol Ltd. (SOL) 
and  Formosa Plastics Corp. (1301)  are drawing up plans to build new
U.S. ethylene plants during the next four years.  Dow and “a lot of the industry” have worked on a direct
route for converting methane, said Carol A. Williams, executive
vice president of manufacturing and engineering at the largest
U.S. chemical maker.  “If they are announcing that, then I think that is a
significant step forward for our industry,” said Williams, who
hasn’t seen Honeywell’s technology. “Lots of people have worked
on it and they have worked on it many different ways.”  Even if proved economically and scientifically viable,
Honeywell’s process may take years to be adopted by an industry
that changes slowly because of large investment in petrochemical
complexes, said Nils-bertil Wallin, a Credit Agricole Securities
analyst in  New York . Some technologies need improvement after
their discovery before gaining acceptance, he said.  Disruptive Technology  Hydraulic fracturing, or high-pressure injection of water,
sand and chemicals into share rock formation to extract gas, has
been around for decades, Wallin said. Only recently has
fracking, as the process is known, set off a boom of natural gas
production as methods became more efficient.  Honeywell’s direct methane conversion “could potentially
be a disruptive technology,” Wallin said. “It would change the
whole supply-demand dynamic.”  The benefits would include saving costs across the industry
and giving gas producers another market for methane, he said.  UOP, which was a joint venture with Dow’s Union Carbide
unit before Honeywell bought the half it didn’t own for about
$825 million in 2005, was  formed in 1914  based on an oil
refining technology invented by Jesse Dubbs, whose enthusiasm
for the industry led him to name his son Carbon Petroleum. The
company since has created advances in unleaded gasoline and
catalytic converters. More recently, it devised a process to
make plastics raw materials from coal and sold its first license
to a company in  China , where coal is plentiful.  Synfuels Process  Low natural-gas prices drove Dallas-based Synfuels
International Inc. to work since 1998 on a cost-effective
process to transform the fuel into ethylene and gasoline blends.
The company is ready to go to market after operating a
demonstration facility, and an undisclosed global company is
seeking to build a plant based on the technology, Chief Engineer
Ed Peterson said.  In Synfuels’s process, methane is transformed to acetylene
and then to ethylene. The technology matches the cost of ethane-
to-ethylene conversion, he said.  “We’re always going to have lots of natural gas; now we
have to find an economical way to make the products that we want
out of it,” said Peterson, a chemical engineer who has worked
at Dow and a Royal Dutch Shell unit. “We have one of those
economical methods.”  Honeywell’s Gautam said methane-to-ethylene technology will
prove cost effective even if natural  gas prices  rise much higher
than today’s lows.  “We have found a route that just seems to work well,”
Gautam said. “It will truly be a game-changing technology.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  