-- Money Market Indicators Signals Banking Sector Stress Stable
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-04-25T13:25:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/money-market-indicators-signals-banking-sector-stress-stable.html
Money-market indicators signaled
little change in the ability of banks to borrow and lend short
term funds with the gap between the London interbank offered
rate and the Federal funds rate held stable.  Three-month London interbank offered rate, or Libor, which
represents the rate at which banks say it would cost to borrow
from another,  was  0.4659 percent, unchanged from yesterday,
according to the British Bankers’ Association.  The Libor-OIS spread, a gauge of banks reluctance to lend,
was little changed at 32.7 basis points. The gap was as high as
51 basis points this year on Jan. 6. Overnight index swaps, or
OIS, give traders predictions on where the Fed’s effective funds
rate will average for the term of the swap. The central bank’s
target rate is set in a range of zero to 0.25 percent.  Predictions in the forward market for Libor-OIS, known as
the FRA/OIS spread, narrowed to 32.75 basis points for June,
compared to 33.5 basis points late yesterday, according to UBS
AG data. The spread is up from 30 basis points on March 1.  The cost for European banks to convert euro-denominated
payment streams into dollars-based funding via the cross
currency swaps market fell. The three-month cross-currency basis
swap was 44.38 basis points below Euribor, compared to 44.88
basis points yesterday. The basis swap rate was minus 162.5
basis points on Nov. 30.  The difference between the two-year swap rate and the
comparable-maturity Treasury note yield, known as the swap
spread, narrowed to 28.96 basis points from 30.63 basis points.
The gap is a gauge of investors’ perceptions of U.S. banking
sector credit risk as swap rates are derived from expectations
for dollar Libor. Swap rates serve as benchmarks for investors
in many types of debt, including mortgage-backed and auto-loan
securities.  Euribor-OIS Spread  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S. commercial paper
rose $4.2 billion to $932.6 billion outstanding in the week
ended April 18, according to Fed data. Corporations sell
commercial paper, typically maturing in 270 days or less, to
fund everyday activities such as paying rent and salaries.  The Euribor-OIS spread, the difference between the euro
interbank offered rate and overnight indexed swaps, narrowed.
The measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to one another was 39
basis points from 40 basis points yesterday.  The price on one-year cross-currency basis swaps between
yen and U.S. dollars was minus 29.6 basis points, compared to
minus 30.9 yesterday. A negative swap price indicates investors
are willing to receive reduced interest payments on the yen they
lend in order to obtain the needed financing in dollars.  Foreign-exchange swaps are typically for periods of less
than a year, while cross-currency basis swaps usually range from
one to 30 years. The latter are agreements in which a person
borrows in one currency and simultaneously lends in a different
currency. The trade involves the exchange of two different
floating-rate payments, each denominated in a different currency
and based on a different index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  