-- Money Won’t Win Presidency but It Might Buy Congress
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2012-04-25T23:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/money-won-t-win-presidency-but-it-might-buy-congress.html
President  Barack Obama ’s re-
election campaign is likely to have more  money  than any
presidential campaign in history. Republican Mitt Romney’s
campaign, when you factor in the  super-PACs  supporting him,
could have even more money than that.  Both candidates will, in other words, have more than enough
money to get out their message, attack their opponent and
support their ground game. Even as they’re spending all this
money on  paid media , the campaigns will receive an almost
infinite amount of free media from newspapers, television,
magazines and blogs that will spend the next seven months doing
nothing but covering the presidential campaign.  Yet, at the presidential level, money isn’t everything. In
fact, sometimes it’s not even the main thing. Note that  Rick Santorum , who was outspent many times over by Romney,
nevertheless bested him in a number of Republican primaries.  Just as youth is wasted on the young, money is wasted on
the rich. Money is least useful in contests where news coverage
is most intense and opinions are most entrenched. How many
people do you know who still aren’t sure what they think of
Obama? Or are undecided about Romney? Probably not many.  But how many people do you know with a strong opinion on
their congressman? Or on his or her challenger? Do you even have
a strong opinion on your congressman? That’s the kind of “low-
information” race where money can have a big impact.  Negative Airdrop  Although the effect of super-PACs on the presidential race
will probably be limited, I worry when I  read  that casino mogul
 Sheldon Adelson  plans to pump millions into a super-PAC
dedicated to influencing the outcome of congressional elections.
That’s where an airdrop of a million dollars in negative ads in
the waning weeks of a campaign can completely change the result.  In a recent episode of the public radio program “This
American Life,” Ben Calhoun tells the story of Ami Bera, a
long-shot Democratic candidate who ran against Republican
Representative Dan Lungren of  California  in 2010. Lungren has
been a fixture of California politics for 30 years. Bera, a
newcomer, wasn’t supposed to have a chance. He began the race 30
points behind, but he kept closing the gap. And closing the gap.
Soon, he was trailing Lungren by single digits.  Then American Crossroads, the Republican super-PAC founded
by  Karl Rove , jumped into the campaign in the final two weeks.
It dumped $680,000 into negative ads against Bera. An unknown
quantity to many in the district, Bera had no time or money to
respond to the attacks. He just took the hit. And lost.  Without American Crossroads, would Bera have won? Perhaps
not. But it didn’t help. “It clearly had impact and moved us
backwards,” he told Calhoun. “It went from a single-digit race
to 14 points down. That’s a lot to make up in a single week.”  A similar barrage leveled against a presidential candidate
would be far less effective. Romney knows a lot of rich people.
So does Obama. If in the final days of the presidential campaign
some hedge fund billionaire begins a multimillion-dollar assault
on Obama, some Hollywood billionaire will probably help the
president out. Either way, the ads would have a limited effect.
By the end of the presidential campaign, most voters will have
made up their minds. They’re not waiting for one more black-and-
white clip narrated by another grim voice to push them over the
edge.  In contrast, even at the end of the campaign, many
potential voters will know very little about their congressional
candidates. They will be susceptible to ads telling them
terrible things. Some of those candidates won’t have the
resources to fight back.  Pays To Listen  No one knows that better than the candidates themselves.
Both incumbents and potential challengers realize that a deep-
pocketed PAC could decide their race. So when they get a call
from that PAC’s director urging them to support this or that,
they’re that much likelier to listen. The result, then, isn’t
just that moneyed interests can throw congressional elections.
It’s that they wield more influence after the election -- and
they can exercise that power without spending a dollar.  Imagine a super-PAC funded by financial interests --
“United for Economic Growth,” say -- that, seeing tax reform
legislation on the horizon, makes it known that it will spend
$500,000 or more against candidates who support limiting the
deductibility of corporate debt. That’s a small enough issue
that most Americans don’t follow candidate positions on it. It’s
an issue where there isn’t an organized set of interests on the
other side. And it’s an issue where most politicians themselves
don’t have very strong or even developed opinions. My guess is
United for Economic Growth would get its way in Congress without
having to spend much money at all.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  saving Social Security 
and  dealing with China ;  Noah Feldman  on  Arizona immigration
arguments ;  Caroline Baum  on the  fiscal future ;  Susan Crawford  on
 cyber protection ; Steven Neil Kaplan on  inequality and
unemployment ; Jared Diamond on the roots of  Japan’s economic
malaise .  To contact the writer on this article:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 