-- Hong Kong Peg Architect Says Convertible Yuan `Long Way Off’
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-04-25T03:22:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/hong-kong-peg-architect-says-convertible-yuan-long-way-off-.html
China is “still a long way off”
from making its currency fully convertible and until that
happens  Hong Kong  can’t shift its dollar peg to the yuan, said
 John Greenwood , architect of the city’s exchange-rate system.  The Hong Kong dollar’s value has been kept at about HK$7.80
to the greenback since 1983 Chief Executive-elect Leung Chun-
ying, who begins a five-year term on July 1, said last month he
has no plans to adjust the link. The city’s current leader,
 Donald Tsang , said in November the existing arrangement would
stay at least until the yuan becomes fully convertible.  China ended its currency peg to the dollar in 2005 after
keeping the exchange rate stable for a decade. Chinese officials
told European Union business executives that the yuan will
achieve “full convertibility” by 2015, EU Chamber of Commerce
in  China  President Davide Cucino said on Sept. 7. The People’s
Bank of China doubled the yuan’s trading band to 1 percent and
allowed lenders to hold short positions on dollar last week,
steps seen as paving the way for a convertible currency.  “What Hong Kong needs in order to think about re-pegging
would be for the Chinese yuan to be fully and irreversibly
convertible,” Greenwood said in an interview in Hong Kong today.
“2015 is not possible in my view.”  The Hong Kong dollar peg was adopted in 1983, when
negotiations between China and the U.K. over returning the city
to Chinese control triggered capital outflows and Greenwood
suggested a currency board system to stabilize the currency. In
2005, policy makers committed to limiting the currency’s decline
to HK$7.85 per dollar and capping gains at HK$7.75.  The existing fixed-exchange-rate system ties Hong Kong’s
monetary policy to that of the U.S., where the jobless rate is
8.2 percent and the  Federal Reserve  has pledged to maintain a
near-zero benchmark  interest rate  through 2014. Hong Kong’s
jobless rate is 3.4 percent and the city’s  inflation  excluding
one-off reliefs reached 6.7 percent in January, the fastest
since at least February 2007.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  