-- Orders for U.S. Goods Probably Rose Excluding Transport
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-04-25T04:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/orders-for-u-s-goods-probably-rose-excluding-transport.html
Orders for U.S. durable goods
excluding transportation equipment probably rose in March,
indicating manufacturing continues to contribute to growth,
economists said before a government report today.  Bookings for goods meant to last at least three years
outside of aircraft and automobiles increased 0.5 percent after
rising 1.8 percent the prior month, according to the median
 forecast  of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Total orders 
probably dropped as demand for planes, which is volatile, pulled
back after surging in February, economists projected.  Rising demand for cars and auto supplies is supporting
companies from  3M Co. (MMM)  to Texas Instruments Inc., showing
factories will underpin the expansion. Nonetheless,
manufacturing will probably give way to  service industries  as a
pillar of the expansion as slowdowns in  Europe  and China curb
 exports , while business investment cools after the strongest 10-
quarter performance in a decade.  “We’re still definitely on the recovery path,” said  Scott Brown , chief economist at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in  St.
Petersburg ,  Florida . “The slower global outlook should damp
U.S. exports to some extent. Domestic demand should be OK.”  The Commerce Department will report the durables figures at
8:30 a.m. in Washington. Estimates for bookings excluding
transportation of the 51 economists surveyed by Bloomberg ranged
from little changed to a gain of 2.4 percent.  Boeing Orders  A decline in airplane bookings probably contributed to a
drop in total demand, economists said. Boeing Co., the largest
U.S. aircraft maker, said it received orders for 53 planes last
month, down from 237 in February.  Orders for non-military capital goods excluding aircraft, a
proxy for business investment in items such as computers,
engines and communications gear, advanced 1 percent after a 1.2
percent gain the previous month, according to the median
forecast.  Auto manufacturing has been bolstering factory growth. Cars
last quarter sold at the fastest pace in four years, according
to industry data.  Manufacturers pointed to gains in automotive and high-
technology industries, the  Federal Reserve  said in its Beige
Book business survey, published two weeks before the  Federal
Open Market Committee  meets today in Washington to set monetary
policy. The firms “expressed optimism about near-term growth
prospects, but they are somewhat concerned about rising
petroleum prices,” the Fed said in the report.  Other Gauges  Other manufacturing gauges continued to expand this month
even as orders eased. Regional reports from the Federal Reserve
Banks in the  New York  and Philadelphia showed factory growth
slowed, while employment increased.  3M, maker of fuel system tune-up kits and Post-it Notes,
yesterday jumped the most since January after posting a first-
quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates because of rising
U.S. auto and industrial demand. The  St. Paul , Minnesota-based
company’s industrial and transportation unit posted sales of
$2.66 billion, an 8.6 percent increase.  Those gains help explain why shares of machinery makers
have outpaced the broader stock market this year. The Standard &
Poor’s Machinery  Supercomposite (S15MACH)   Index (SPX) , which includes companies
like Cummins Inc. and Caterpillar Inc., has climbed 15 percent
so far this year, compared with a 9.1 percent increase for the
S&P 500 Index.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  