-- Drop in U.S. Durables Orders Masks Investment Gain: Economy
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-04-25T20:24:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/orders-for-u-s-durable-goods-drop-by-the-most-in-three-years.html
Orders for U.S. durable goods fell
in March by the most in three years, depressed by a pullback in
demand for aircraft that masked gains in business investment.  Bookings for goods meant to last at least three years
dropped 4.2 percent, more than forecast and the biggest decrease
since January 2009, Commerce Department data showed today in
 Washington . Sales of non-military capital equipment excluding
planes climbed for a second month, prompting some economists to
raise first-quarter forecasts for gross domestic product.  Demand for cars and auto supplies is supporting companies
from  3M Co. (MMM)  to Texas Instruments Inc., showing manufacturing
will underpin the world’s largest economy. At the same time,
factories may give way to  service industries  as a pillar of the
expansion as a slowdown in global growth curbs  exports .  “There’s some caution looking ahead,” said  Tom Porcelli ,
chief U.S. economist at RBC Capital Markets LLC in  New York .
“The new orders would suggest that there’s perhaps a modest
reassessment taking place.” The shipments figure “actually
bodes well for GDP” in the first quarter, he said.  Federal Reserve policy makers said at the conclusion today
of their meeting that they expect the economy to expand
gradually, refraining from new actions to lower borrowing costs.  The central bank “expects economic growth to remain
moderate over coming quarters and then to pick up gradually,”
the  Federal Open Market Committee  said in a statement after the
two-day meeting in Washington. Unemployment has fallen, “but
remains elevated,” policy makers said.  Stocks Higher  Stocks rose, sending benchmark indexes higher for a second
day, after better-than-estimated earnings from Apple Inc. to
 Boeing Co. (BA)  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1.4 percent,
the most in almost two weeks, to 1,390.69 at the close in New
York.  Elsewhere today, a report showed the U.K. economy shrank
0.2 percent in the first quarter after contracting 0.3 percent
in the prior three months as Britain slid into its first double-
dip recession since the 1970s.  Estimates of 81 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News
projected U.S. durable goods orders would fall 1.7 percent last
month. Projections ranged from a drop of 4 percent to a gain of
2.2 percent.  Demand for transportation equipment dropped 12.5 percent,
the most since November 2010, led by a 48 percent plunge in
civilian aircraft bookings. Boeing said it received orders for
53 planes last month after demand surged to 237 in February.  Boeing Profit  Chicago-based Boeing today posted a first-quarter profit
that beat analysts’ estimates and raised its 2012 forecast as it
delivered more commercial jets while pushing production to
record levels. The world’s biggest aerospace company is boosting
output by more than 60 percent in the four years through 2014 to
pare a record order backlog.  Bookings for automobiles and parts increased 0.1 percent
after a 2 percent rise the previous month, today’s durable goods
report showed.  Auto manufacturing has been bolstering factory growth. Cars
last quarter sold at the fastest pace in four years, according
to industry data.  3M, the maker of fuel system tuneup kits and Post-it Notes,
yesterday jumped the most since January after posting a first-
quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates because of rising
U.S. auto and industrial demand. The  St. Paul , Minnesota-based
company’s industrial and transportation unit posted sales of
$2.66 billion, an 8.6 percent increase.  Business Equipment  Today’s report showed shipments of non-defense capital
goods excluding aircraft, used in calculating GDP, increased 2.6
percent in March after rising 1.4 percent the previous month.  Bookings for such goods, a proxy for future business
investment in items like computers, engines and communications
gear, decreased 0.8 percent after a revised 2.8 percent increase
the prior month. The February gain was previously estimated at
1.7 percent.  The gain in shipments prompted economists at Morgan Stanley
in New York to raise their tracking estimate for growth in the
first quarter to 2.9 percent from 2.7 percent before the data
were released. At the same time, the drop in orders is
“pointing to softer investment spending going forward,” Morgan
Stanley economist Ted Wieseman said in a note to clients.  A Commerce Department report in two days will show the
economy grew at a 2.5 percent annual rate from January through
March after expanding at a 3 percent pace in the previous three
months, according to the median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. The strongest gain in  consumer spending  in more
than a year will probably be offset by a smaller contribution
from inventory restocking, economists said.  Caterpillar  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the world’s largest maker of construction
and mining equipment, is among companies still seeing gains in
demand. The Peoria, Illinois-based company today raised its
earnings forecast and posted first-quarter profit that topped
analysts’ estimates.  Manufacturers mentioned gains in automotive and high-
technology industries, the Fed said in its Beige Book business
survey, published two weeks before today’s meeting in
Washington. The firms “expressed optimism about near-term
growth prospects, but they are somewhat concerned about rising
petroleum prices,” the Fed said in the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  