-- Motorola Mobility, MacroSolve, Google: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-04-25T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/motorola-mobility-macrosolve-google-intellectual-property.html
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI)  won
a partial victory from a U.S. International Trade Commission
judge in its bid to block imports of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s devices
including the iPhone and iPad tablet computer.  Apple violated one of four Motorola Mobility patent rights
being contested, ITC Judge Thomas Pender said in a notice posted
yesterday. The patent relates to 3G technology. The other three
patents weren’t violated, according to the notice.  The judge’s findings are subject to review by the six-
member commission, which has the power to block imports that
infringe U.S. patents.  “A court in  Germany  has already ruled that Apple did not
infringe on this patent, so we believe we will have a very
strong case on appeal,”  Kristin Huguet , an Apple spokeswoman,
said in a telephone interview, referring to the one patent Apple
was found to have violated.  “We are pleased that the ALJ’s initial determination finds
Apple to be in violation of Motorola Mobility’s intellectual
property, and look forward to the full commission’s ruling in
August,” Becki Leonard, a spokeswoman for Motorola Mobility,
said in an e-mailed statement.  The six-member commission is scheduled to complete the
investigation by Aug. 23. Should it decide an import ban is
warranted, that decision is subject to review by both President
 Barack Obama  and an appeals court that specializes in patent
law.  Motorola Mobility filed the complaint Oct. 1, 2010, amid
statements by Apple that phones running on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
operating system copied the iPhone. Google, which is buying
Motorola Mobility for $12.5 billion, has cited the handset
maker’s patent portfolio as a possible bulwark against patent
litigation by Android rivals like Apple.  Apple, which had  $108.2 billion  in sales last year, has
denied infringing Motorola Mobility patents and challenged their
validity.  Apple lost its own ITC case, filed Oct. 29, 2010, in which
it sought to block imports of Motorola Mobility’s Android
phones. Apple is appealing the decision.  Google, based in Mountain View,  California , agreed to buy
Motorola Mobility after the case was filed and will inherit the
dispute once the deal is completed. European and U.S. regulators
have approved the acquisition, which is under review by Chinese
authorities.  Pender’s full decision will be posted after both sides get
a chance to redact confidential information.  The case against Apple is In the Matter of Wireless
Communication Devices, Portable Music and Data Processing
Devices, Computers and Components Thereof, 337-745, and Apple’s
case against Motorola Mobility is In the Matter of Mobile
Devices and Related Software, 337-750, both U.S. International
Trade.  MacroSolve Settles Patent Cases Against AOL, Bank of America  MacroSolve Inc. (MCVE) , the Tulsa, Oklahoma-based company that has
filed more than 25 patent infringement cases since March 2011,
has resolved disputes with  Bank of American Corp. , and AOL Inc.,
the company said in  a statement  yesterday.  The company had accused the defendants of infringing patent
7,822,816, which was issued in October 2010. The patent covered
mobile information collection systems used in wireless networks.  The suits against AOL and Bank of America were filed Feb.
27 and March 23, respectively. They were both filed in federal
court in the Eastern District of  Texas , which is a venue where
jurors are believed to be more favorable to patent owners, and
has been MacroSolve’s choice for all the patent-infringement
cases it has filed.  Terms of the settlements weren’t disclosed.  In both cases MacroSolve was represented by  Zachariah
Harrington ,  Matthew J. Antonelli ,  Kris Yue Teng  and  Larry Dean
Thompson Jr.  of  Antonelli Harrington & Thompson LLP  of Houston.  The case against AOL is MacroSolve Inc. v.  AOL Inc. (AOL) , 6:12-
cv-00091-LED, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Texas
(Tyler). The case against Bank of America is MacroSolve Inc., v.
Bank of American Corp., 6:12-cv-00193-LED, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Texas (Tyler).  Vodafone Loses Patent Ruling Over Sales of HTC, Nokia Devices  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , alongside  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , lost a
patent case brought by IPCom GmbH in a Dusseldorf court over the
distribution of certain mobile phones made by  Nokia OYJ (NOK1V)  and  HTC
Corp. (2498)   Vodafone can’t comment on the impact of yesterday’s ruling
before reviewing the written judgment, company spokesman Kuzey
Esener said in an e-mailed statement. The patent at issue is
currently under review and may still be declared invalid, he
said.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Barr Trademark Challenge to Be Heard in Russian Court May 29  A.G. Barr Plc (BAG) ’s trademarks are being challenged in a
Russian court, the Russian Legal Information Agency  reported .  The case, to be heard at the Moscow Commercial Court, pits
Business Invest Group Holdings against Barr, according to the
 news agency .  Business Invest Group has filed more than 10 similar suits
against other companies, seeking to terminate their trademarks,
the news agency reported.  Barr, maker of Orangina, has been in business since 1875,
and has produced Irm-Bru since 1901, according to the news
agency.  IP Office Says No Sale to Foreigners of Regional Coffee Marks  Vietnam’s National Office for Intellectual Property has
said trademarks for Vietnamese coffee may not be sold to a
Chinese company,  according to  VietNam Net.  Trademarks that include the name of localities can’t be
sold without the permission of local authorities, the office
said and VietNam Net reported.  Another possible bar to a sale would be collective
ownership of the trademark, according to VietNam Net.  As a means of protecting the marks and preventing their
sale, the local department of agriculture and rural development
has asked that it be transferred the trademarks, VietNam Net
reported.  Live Nation Files Suit to Seize Fake Coldplay Merchandise  A Live Nation Entertainment Inc. unit filed a trademark
infringement suit related to merchandise that it said is likely
to be sold near a Los Angeles-area venue where the British band
Coldplay is scheduled to perform May 1 and 2.  The suit is against nine unidentified defendants and one
unnamed company. According to the complaint filed in federal
court in Los Angeles yesterday, Live Nation anticipates that the
defendants will attempt to sell unauthorized merchandise bearing
the band’s trademarks in the vicinity of the Hollywood Bowl on
that weekend.  Live Nation said merchandise -- typically T-shirts, jerseys
and caps -- will be of the same general appearance as the
authorized items. Such fakes are usually of poor quality and the
public will likely be confused by the resemblance to the
legitimate goods, Live Nation said.  Live Nation said the fakes will damage its reputation and
it will miss out on royalties that would come from the sale of
legitimate merchandise.  The Beverly Hills, California-based company asked the court
to bar the sale of the fake items, and to issue an order
enabling its agents and law enforcement officials to seize and
destroy all unauthorized merchandise.  Additionally, it is requesting awards of money damages,
litigation costs and attorney fees.  The case is  Live Nation Merchandise Inc. v.  John Does ,
2:12-cv-03527-RGK-AGR, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California (Los Angeles).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Google Was Never Told by Sun to License Java, Schmidt Says  Google Inc. Chairman  Eric Schmidt  testified that his
company developed the Android operating system using the Java
programming language after partnership talks with Sun
Microsystems Inc. fell through and Sun made no demand for a
license to use Java.  Sun sought $30 million to $50 million and tight control
over Java’s use for Android, Schmidt told jurors yesterday in
federal court in  San Francisco  during  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ’s trial
against Google. When deal negotiations fell through in 2006,
Google built the Android software for mobile devices using
aspects of the Java platform without infringing on Sun’s
intellectual property, he said. Oracle now owns Java.  Schmidt said that based on his understanding of Sun’s
licensing requirements for Java, Google’s use of the programming
language’s tools in Android without a license was
“permissible” and “legally correct.” He said Jonathan Schwartz, who started as Sun’s chief executive officer in April
2006, never asked the search engine operator to take a license.  Oracle is seeking $1 billion in damages and a court order
blocking sales of Android, now running on more than 300 million
smartphones, unless Mountain View, California-based Google pays
for a license.  Oracle acquired Java as part of its 2010 takeover of Sun.
The Redwood City, California-based database maker alleges that
Google infringed copyrights on 37 APIs -- tools programmers use
to create applications using Java -- and infringed two Java
patents.  Schmidt said Java, a free programming language, is useless
without the APIs, which are used to tell computers how to print,
sort and perform other applications. Google implemented the Java
language and APIs, not Java source code, which would require a
license, he told the jury.  U.S. District Judge William Alsup, who is presiding over
the trial, said Schmidt’s answer wasn’t responsive to the
question and ordered jurors to disregard it.  Schmidt said that Sun co-founder Scott McNealy, who
preceded Schwartz as CEO, saw the Android partnership with
Google as a way to boost revenue.  The trial, expected to last eight weeks, is divided into
three phases. Oracle rested its case yesterday for the first
phase, which deals with copyright infringement. Google began its
defense of those claims yesterday, and the jury is expected to
deliberate on those claims as early as next week.  The next phases of the trial will be patent claims and
damage claims.  The case is Oracle America Inc. v. Google Inc., 10-03561,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San
Francisco).  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Davis Wright Tremaine Hires Litigator from Morrison & Foerster  Davis Wright Tremaine LLP hired Eric Walters for its IP
practice group, the Seattle-based firm said in a  statement .  Walters , a litigator, joins from San Francisco’s Morrison &
Foerster LLP. He has represented clients in the biotechnology,
pharmaceutical, software, semiconductor, medical device and
cleantech industries in patent, trade secret, copyright,
trademark and licensing disputes.  He has an undergraduate degree in chemical engineering and
a law degree from the University of Michigan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 