-- House Republicans to Propose Own Anti-Domestic Violence Bill
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2012-04-25T18:33:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/house-republicans-to-propose-own-anti-domestic-violence-bill-1-.html
U.S.  House Republicans  said they
will introduce their version of legislation to reauthorize
assistance to victims of domestic violence, an attempt to defuse
Democrats’ efforts to portray congressional Republicans as
hostile toward women.  Representative Sandy Adams of Florida said she and fellow
freshman Republican Kristi Noem of  South Dakota  will sponsor the
bill reauthorizing the 1994 Violence Against Women Act. Adams
said today the measure, still being drafted, will be introduced
this week and a House vote will be held as early as the week of
May 14.  Adams said the man she married at age 18 was a “violent
alcoholic” and an abuser. She escaped that marriage and later,
as a deputy sheriff in Orange County,  Florida , would respond to
cases involving victims of domestic violence.  “I know what they’re feeling because I was there, and I
know how much this law has helped so many people in our
country,” Adams said.  Senate Democrats , meanwhile, urged quick passage of their
measure to reauthorize the law. They began debate on the
legislation today.  Reauthorization “will ensure the police have tools to more
effectively stop this and prosecute these people who are the
abusers,” said Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada
Democrat, said today. “People should realize that we need law
enforcement -- they have better ways of approaching these calls
they get all the time.”  Shoring Up Support  In addition to supporting its merits, Democrats have said
an intent of the bill, which funds grants for domestic violence
shelters and police training on how to address spousal abuse, is
to shore up their support among women voters.  “Obviously we hope that the House puts forward a bill, as
the Senate has, in a bipartisan way,” Senator  Patty Murray , a
Washington Democrat, told reporters today. “That is an
extremely important criteria. And we also want to make sure that
they don’t move us backwards.”  The 1994 Violence Against Women Act and later
reauthorizations of the law have easily passed both chambers of
Congress. While the Senate bill has enough support to dodge
procedural attempts to block it -- 61 of 100 senators have
signed on as sponsors or co-sponsors -- divisions on
immigration, gay rights and tribal court jurisdiction must be
overcome before it can advance.  Visas for Victims  Republicans have proposed stripping language from the bill
that would expand the number of visas available to domestic
violence victims who aid criminal investigations. The Republican
proposal may ignite a debate over immigration that could delay
passage.  The bill would allow 5,000 special visas to be awarded
annually -- beyond the current cap of 10,000 a year -- to
victims of criminal activity who have been certified by  law
enforcement  as having aided in investigating a crime.  “All this is about is 5,000 visas, ones that were already
issued in the past few years but simply weren’t used,” Senator
 Amy Klobuchar , a Minnesota Democrat, told reporters today. “So
it’s not like we did some radical thing that would cause
Republicans to oppose it.”  Shelters, Police Training  The Senate’s Violence Against Women Act would authorize
$660 million in annual funding through 2016 for domestic
violence shelters and police training, less than the $682.5
million authorized in the previous reauthorization, which
expired Sept. 30. First authorized as part of a broader violent-
crime control bill, the Violence Against Women Act was
reauthorized in 2000 and 2005.  Apart from a new $5 million annual grant program for
domestic violence prevention in American Indian tribal
communities, the Senate bill holds steady or cuts all other
grant programs.  Senator  Kay Bailey Hutchison , a Texas Republican, is
planning to offer an amendment that would address Republican
concerns over the immigration language and tribal court
jurisdiction. House Republicans said their bill will largely
track the Senate Republican alternative.  The Senate Republican proposal seeks to address
constitutional concerns about language in the bill that aims to
protect Native American women who are victims of domestic
violence.  The Senate bill is S. 1925.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider in Washington at 
 Jschneider50@bloomberg.net  