-- House Defense Panel Backs Sub Pentagon Seeks to Postpone
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-04-25T18:23:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/house-defense-panel-backs-sub-pentagon-seeks-to-postpone.html
 A House defense panel moved to
restore funding for a second Virginia-class submarine the Navy
struck from fiscal 2014 plans as part of Pentagon budget-
cutting.  The House Armed Services Committee’s seapower panel
recommends adding a down payment, or “advance procurement,” in
the fiscal 2013 budget, according to documents released today.
It also proposes giving the Navy authority to “incrementally”
fund the nuclear-powered submarine in fiscal 2014 and beyond.  The panel’s recommendations will be considered by the full
committee next week as it shapes its fiscal 2013 defense
authorization bill. The Republican-led Armed Services Committee
will be the first to act on the budget blueprint President
 Barack Obama  and the Pentagon proposed in February to cut $487
billion from previously planned defense spending over 10 years.  The submarine proposal indicates lawmakers won’t hesitate
to refashion a spending proposal that Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  has said should be passed as a package without
modifications that risk reversing the proposed savings.  The Navy had planned to buy two Virginia-class submarines a
year, with the work split between  Huntington Ingalls Industries
Inc. (HII)  of  Newport News ,  Virginia , and  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) ’s
Groton, Connecticut-based Electric Boat unit. Instead, the
Pentagon now proposes buying one boat in fiscal 2014, while
delaying another until fiscal 2018.  ‘Peerless’ Submarine  The House panel recommended a multiyear contract to buy as
many as 10 Virginia-class submarines, up from the nine the Navy
proposed. The Pentagon has said the Navy could save $4.4
billion, or 14 percent, on a multiyear contract for nine of the
vessels.  Representative Jim Langevin, a Democrat from Rhode Island,
said the panel’s proposal “marks a major development toward
maintaining the current two-boat-per-year production level of
the peerless Virginia-class submarines, which are critical to a
national security strategy increasingly focused on the Asia-
Pacific region.”  Electric Boat builds the submarines at the company’s
Quonset Point,  Rhode Island , and Groton,  Connecticut ,
facilities.  “Slowing down production would put these benefits at risk
and is estimated to actually increase the cost of production for
taxpayers by $600 million,” Langevin said today in an e-mailed
statement.  The Navy would receive more than $700 million in funding
for advance procurement of material in fiscal 2013 under the
House panel’s plan, according to Langevin. A 10-vessel block
purchase would create “further efficiencies and creating more
certainty for the submarine industrial base,” Langevin said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  