-- Housing Declared Bottoming in U.S. After Six-Year Slump
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-04-25T15:51:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/housing-declared-bottoming-in-u-s-.html
The U.S. housing market is showing
more signs of stabilization as price declines ease and home
demand improves, spurring several economists to call a bottom to
the worst real estate collapse since the 1930s.  “The crash is over,”  Mark Zandi , chief economist for
Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania , said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “Home sales -- both new and
existing -- and housing starts are now off the bottom.”  Data released yesterday showing better-than-estimated new-
home  sales  and a slowdown in price declines are bolstering
optimism that the market is poised for a sustainable recovery.
Economists including Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ’s  Chris Rupkey , Bank of America Corp.’s Michelle Meyer and  Mark Fleming 
of CoreLogic Inc. are also predicting prices are close to a
trough after a 35 percent  slump  from a July 2006 peak, even as
the threat of more foreclosures loom to boost supply.  Values in 20 U.S. cities fell 3.5 percent in February, the
smallest 12-month  drop  since February 2011, the S&P/Case-Shiller
index showed yesterday. The  Federal Housing Finance Agency ’s
home-price index, which measures properties with mortgages
backed by  Fannie Mae  or  Freddie Mac , had a 0.4 percent rise for
the same period, according to a separate report.  New Home Sales  New homes sold at an annual pace of 328,000 in March, up
7.5 percent from a year earlier, the Commerce Department said.
The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey forecast a rate
of 319,000. The pace of sales for February was revised upward to
353,000, a two-year high.  A report on consumer confidence yesterday showed the most
important signal that housing can only go up, said Rupkey, chief
financial economist for Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi in New York.
The Conference Board said its  confidence index  was at 69.2 in
April, compared with a revised 69.5 in March. Beneath the
headline number, an important indicator was that consumers said
jobs are easier to find, Rupkey said.  “Today’s consumer confidence shows labor markets
recovering and that confidence is going to allow consumers to go
out and buy homes,” Rupkey said in a telephone interview
yesterday.  Contract Signings  The National Association of Realtors probably will say
tomorrow that the number of Americans signing contracts to buy
previously owned homes rose 1 percent in March, according to the
median estimate of 43 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. That
would put the pending home-sales index close to a two-year high.  Trulia Inc.’s housing barometer showed that the market was
32 percent of the way “back to normal” in March, up from 23
percent a year earlier, while down from 34 percent in January
and February, said Jed Kolko, chief economist for the San
Francisco-based real estate information service. The measure
takes into account data on  home construction , sales and mortgage
delinquencies.  “The housing recovery is progressing, though it’s taken
one step backwards after a few strides forward,” Kolko wrote in
a  note  on Trulia’s website yesterday.  Foreclosure Supply  While the volume of sales has increased, prices still have
a way to fall because as many as 6 million homes with delinquent
mortgages and in the foreclosure process are likely to come to
the market,  Scott Simon , head of mortgage- and asset-backed debt
at  Newport Beach , California-based Pacific Investment Management
Co., said yesterday on Bloomberg Television.  “We think we’d go down another 3 or 4 percent over the
next 12 months, probably bottoming sometime next year,” Simon
said on “Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene . “One month
doesn’t change anything.”  Robert Shiller , a Yale University economics professor and
co-creator of the home-price index, also said prices may be
poised to fall further.  “I’m more concerned about the downside than most people,”
Shiller said yesterday on Bloomberg Radio. “I could see it
staying languishing and edging down for years.”  Home values took eight years to reach a bottom during the
Great Depression and 11 more years to regain their lost ground,
according to  data  compiled by Shiller. Nominal U.S. home prices
fell about 30 percent from 1925 to 1933 and didn’t return to
their pre-crash peak until 1944, the year before World War II
ended.  Rising Home Seizures  Foreclosure  filings  in the U.S. fell in the first quarter
to their lowest level in more than four years after lenders
under legal scrutiny slowed actions against delinquent
homeowners, according to RealtyTrac Inc. Home seizures will
increase as banks work through the backlog following a
settlement by loan servicers over faulty mortgage practices, the
Irvine, California-based data firm forecasts.  Meyer, senior economist with Bank of America in  New York ,
said the recovery will be led by the parts of the country with
fewer foreclosures and more job growth. She estimates that U.S.
prices will reach bottom this year and stay little changed until
2014, when they may gain about 2.5 percent.  Home values in more than half of major U.S. markets will
probably reach a bottom by the end of the year, according to
Seattle-based Zillow Inc. Signs that the market is close to a
trough include improving home sales and rising prices in some
areas, said Chief Economist  Stan Humphries . The market, which
has been bolstered by investors, second-home buyers, and
retirees, will need more traditional first-time and trade-up
buyers to return for a rebound, he said.  ‘Healing’ Market  “I characterize 2012 as a year in which the market is
healing and the bottoming process is playing out,” Humphries
said in a telephone interview.  Median prices averaged 5.8 percent higher in March than a
year earlier in 53 metro areas surveyed for a monthly housing
report by Re/Max LLC, the Denver-based company said in an April
16 report. It was the second consecutive month that  home prices 
increased year-over-year and the ninth straight month of higher
sales volume, according to the report.  “This year’s selling season is shaping up to be the
strongest we’ve seen in years,” Margaret Kelly, Re/Max’s chief
executive officer, said in a statement. “Although we don’t
expect home prices to rise in every market at the same rate, the
worst is definitely behind us, and a slow, steady recovery is
taking hold.”  U.S. home prices compiled by CoreLogic, a  Santa Ana ,
California-based real estate information service, had month-
over-month gains in January and February when sales of
distressed properties were excluded, said Fleming, the company’s
chief economist.  “It’s just a matter of months before we get positive year-
over-year numbers in the overall index,” Fleming said in a
telephone interview from  Washington . “Our data lags the
reality. The turnaround is happening in the March, April and May
time frame.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  