-- Pakistan Follows India With Test of Nuclear-Capable Missile
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2012-04-25T10:03:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/pakistan-test-fires-hatf-ballistic-missile-army-says.html
Pakistan  successfully test fired an
intermediate range ballistic missile capable of carrying a
nuclear warhead, six days after  India  announced a breakthrough
in its missile program.  The Hatf-4 Shaheen-1A weapon tested today had “improved
technical parameters” compared to earlier versions, Pakistan’s
army said in a statement. The Shaheen missile series, adapted
from Chinese designs, are the flagships of Pakistan’s current
deployments and are able to strike most of India, according to
the  Nuclear Threat Initiative , a Washington-based policy group
founded by  Ted Turner  and former Republican Senator Sam Nunn.  “This is not just a coincidence coming after the India
test,” said Gareth Price, London-based head of the  Asia Program 
at foreign affairs institute  Chatham House . “There has been a
big increase in India’s defense spending and this is Pakistan’s
way of saying we are not that far behind.”  India on April 19 launched its Agni-V missile, with a range
of 5,000 kilometers, for the first time taking the country a
step closer to joining an exclusive club of five nations known
to possess intercontinental ballistic weapons and allowing it to
target parts of northern  China  previously beyond its capability.  India is ramping up defense spending while seeking to
resolve territorial disputes through talks with its archrivals
in the region. India briefly went to war with China in 1962,
while it has clashed with Pakistan at least three times.  Pakistan Spend  The five permanent members of the  United Nations Security
Council  are the only countries that have deployed missiles that
can reach beyond 5,500 kilometers, according to the
International Institute for Strategic Studies based in  London .  Pakistan, with which India has fought three wars, two over
the divided mountainous region of Kashmir, raised its military
spending by 11 percent to about $5.5 billion in the year ending
June 30. India and Pakistan have this year announced a series of
measures to boost bilateral trade, raising hopes of a broader
improvement in ties.  “If history is any measure, Pakistan’s test is related to
India’s missile launch as this kind of tit-for-tat testing is
not unusual in the subcontinent,” Poornima Subramaniam, Asia-
Pacific armed forces analyst at IHS Jane’s, said in an e-mailed
response to questions.  Still, the test is “largely only a display of equivalent
retaliation because strategically, Pakistan already had a
similar capability to strike India,” Subramaniam said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew MacAskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  