-- Pakistan’s City of Looms Turns Silent as Gas Outages Shut Mills
-- B y   F a r h a n   S h a r i f
-- 2012-04-25T19:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/pakistan-s-city-of-looms-turns-silent-as-gas-outages-shut-mills.html
Chaudhary Maqsood Elahi, a
Pakistani exporter of knitted garments, spent two years trying
to save his factory in the textile hub of  Faisalabad . He sold
his house, cut down on staff and switched to air shipments to
meet orders on time. It didn’t work.  About six months ago, Elahi, whose Dilkhush Hosiery Mills
Ltd. produced t-shirts for European mega-retailers Carrefour SA
and Metro AG, shut down his 15-year old factory after booking
losses for two straight years. He fired 550 workers, tore down
his plant and divided the land into plots that he put up for
sale to help repay loans, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its
April 30 issue.  “I kept running the factory despite losses in the hope of
finding a way out but the financial burden kept growing,” said
Elahi, 56.  Pakistan  has one of the largest textile industries in the
world, shipping 1.3 trillion rupees ($13.8 billion) worth of
textiles in the year ended June 30 mostly to the U.S. and
 Europe . Textiles account for 63 percent of Pakistan’s exports
and mills employ 20 percent of the nation’s workforce.
 Faisalabad , which generates the most  tax revenue  after Karachi,
accounts for half of all textiles shipped from Pakistan.  The Pakistani textile industry has had a golden opportunity
to capture markets lost by Chinese producers because of rising
wage pressures in  China  and the appreciation of the yuan. But
according to the Pakistan central bank’s annual economic report
for the year ended June 30, 2011, the local industry hasn’t been
able to seize the advantage.  Bangladesh, Cambodia  Instead, Bangladesh and  Cambodia  have increased sales of
apparel as Pakistani manufacturers struggle with energy
shortages, the report says.  Power blackouts last as long as 20 hours at a stretch in
Faisalabad, while shortages of natural gas, which power the
looms, can go on for six days at a time. Demand for natural gas
exceeds supply by as much as 15 percent in the city.  Half the city’s 250,000 power looms have gone out of
business in the past 12 months, 10 percent of the spinning mills
and fabric printing units have shut down and half of the
remaining plants are struggling to survive, says Muzammil
Sultan, president of the Faisalabad Chamber of Commerce and
Industry. At least 200,000 workers have lost their jobs since
last year. “We’re shipping only half the quantity we used to
from this city,” Sultan says.  Cotton Belt  Faisalabad, a city of 5 million people surrounded by
Pakistan’s biggest cotton belt, was once known for attracting
workers from across the Punjab province to run its weaving
mills, spinning units and garment factories.  Now, as the textile business faces its biggest ever crisis,
workers have begun leaving the city for the first time. “I’ve
already moved my family back to  Peshawar  and if I can’t make
this new tire repair business work, I will also move and try to
find some other work,” says Sher Shah Khattak, who came to
Faisalabad 35 years ago to work in the textile trade and lost
his job as a loom operator last year.  In March, thousands of textile workers came out on the
streets of the city, burned tires and shouted slogans against
the government. “The change in the city is visible with just 10
percent of factories closed, and we see rioting by workers
because of the growing frustration,” says Sheikh Abdul Qayyum,
managing partner of Em Que Fabrics in Faisalabad. “We can’t
imagine what would happen if half of all mills stop working.”  ‘Turning to Crime’  Omer Nazar Shah, who heads the Industrial Police Liaison
Committee, a nonprofit group working with law enforcement
authorities in Faisalabad, calls the loss of jobs “a very big
threat” to security. “Since October, 2,500 people are losing
jobs every week from various industries in Faisalabad. They’re
either leaving the city or turning to crime,” he says.  Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  pledged in February to
install new electricity and gas plants in Faisalabad to help end
the energy crisis. So far little has been done, probably because
this is the last year of Gilani’s term. Elahi isn’t among those
waiting for this to happen. “No matter what happens now,” he
says. “I lost everything that I built.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Farhan Sharif in Karachi, Pakistan at 
 Fsharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Power at   cpower3@bloomberg.net  