-- Peugeot Quarterly Revenue Drops 7.3% on European Market
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2012-04-25T08:12:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/peugeot-quarterly-revenue-drops-7-3-on-european-market.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , Europe’s
second-biggest carmaker, said first-quarter revenue fell 7.3
percent as the company cut prices in response to a contraction
in the region’s vehicle market.  Sales dropped to 14.3 billion euros ($18.9 billion) from
15.4 billion euros a year earlier, Paris-based Peugeot said
today in a  statement . That compared with a 14 billion-euro
average of three estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Deliveries
fell 15 percent to 691,500 vehicles.  Peugeot set up a vehicle-development alliance in February
with  General Motors Co. (GM) , the world’s largest automaker, to
address overcapacity and shrinking profitability. A 0.9 percent
decline in new-car prices contributed to the sales drop, Peugeot
said today. The French company said it will probably cut net
debt “significantly” after achieving about half of a 1.5
billion-euro asset-sale plan.  “The results are bad, but there’re not worse than
expected, so that’s a relief,” Kristina Church, an analyst at
Barclays Bank Plc in  London , said in an interview. “The market
had been assuming that the pricing would be worse. Management
said that they were more confident for the rest of the year, and
they sounded on top of the crisis.”  Peugeot  rose  as much as 5 percent to 9.37 euros and was
trading up 3.3 percent at 10:09 a.m. in Paris. That pared the
stock’s decline this year to 13 percent.  Regional Performance  Industrywide first-quarter car sales in Europe dropped 7.3
percent to 3.43 million vehicles, according to the region’s
automakers association. Peugeot was the third-worst performer
among the region’s major carmakers, with registrations falling
17 percent to 407,792 cars. That contrasted with  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,
Europe’s largest auto manufacturer, which posted a sales
increase of 0.5 percent to 813,522 vehicles.  “The competitive environment remained difficult during the
quarter, with pricing pressure similar to the last quarter of
2011, and markets in southern Europe worsened considerably,”
Peugeot said. “This environment should last throughout the
first half of the year.”  Declines in Europe and Latin America led Peugeot’s drop in
first-quarter deliveries. The company’s Chinese car and light
commercial-vehicle sales increased 6.3 percent to 109,100 units,
while Russian deliveries jumped 22 percent to 19,100.
Inventories at the end of March amounted to 70 days’ supply,
compared with 58 days a year earlier.  No Recovery Seen  The company reiterated forecasts that the European market
will shrink by 5 percent this year, including a 10 percent drop
in  France . Industrywide car sales will probably rise 7 percent
in  China , 6 percent in  Latin America  and 5 percent in  Russia .  Europe’s auto market probably won’t recover for years,
Chief Financial Officer Jean-Baptiste de Chatillon said today on
a conference call. A ban on exports to  Iran  amid trade sanctions
against the country has hurt earnings by 10 million euros a
month, he said.  Peugeot outlined a plan in February to cut costs this year
by 1 billion euros. A goal of reducing procurement spending by
400 million euros has been 80 percent completed, the company
said today in a presentation. Another 600 million euros in
fixed-cost reductions is targeted, with 300 million euros in
administration and marketing, 100 million euros in research and
development and 200 million euros in manufacturing, it said.  ‘Too Dependent’  “Peugeot is too dependent on the European market,” Hans- Peter Wodniok, an analyst at Fairesearch GmbH in Kronberg,
 Germany , said. “What it desperately needs is to close at
least one factory in  Europe  in order to reach its cost
reduction target.”  Asset  disposals  have included the Citer vehicle-rental unit
that the carmaker sold to Enterprise Holdings Inc. on Feb. 1 for
440 million euros and an agreement announced April 2 to sell
Peugeot’s 48-year-old headquarters building in Paris to Ivanhoe
Cambridge for 245.5 million euros.  Peugeot is having “very open” talks with private-equity
firms and  hedge funds  as possible buyers of its Gefco trucking
unit, Chatillon said. The division has a “very good market
value,” and Peugeot has yet to decide on the size of the stake
in Gefco to be sold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  