-- Pfizer Experimental Drug Reduces Autism Signs in Mouse Study
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2012-04-25T19:19:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/pfizer-experimental-drug-reduces-autism-symptoms-in-mouse-study.html
An experimental drug for depression
being developed by  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  reduced signs of autism in mice
in a study, a finding that may shed light on the cause of the
disorder and jump-start research into ways to treat it.  The treatment, named GRN-529, targets the brain chemical
glutamate, tied to socialization and behavior. When given to
mice displaying signs of autism, it suppressed repetitive
actions and anti-social behavior, according to the research
published today in the journal Science Translational Medicine.
Pfizer and the  National Institutes of Health  funded the study.  There are no drugs on the market to treat the symptoms or
causes of autism. Until recently, scientists believed the brains
of autistic patients were hard-wired before diagnosis, making
treatment with a drug difficult, said  Daniel Smith , an autism
researcher at Pfizer. That changed with findings the disorder
may be caused by malfunctioning genes that have a real-time
effect on the brain, said Smith, a co-author of the study.  “It is only in the past five years that there have been
large human studies identifying the genetic mutations linked to
autism,” Smith said in a telephone interview. “From that we
can now explore those genetic pathways in more detail.”  Pfizer shares rose 1.5 percent to $22.96 in  New York  time.
The stock has gained 14 percent in the past 12 months.  In the latest research, mice that were given the Pfizer
drug displayed less repetitive grooming and jumping, and spent
more time interacting with other animals.  Autism, a disorder that may affect one in 88 U.S. children,
hurts brain development and is linked to poor social interaction
and communication skills, repeated body movements, and unusual
attachments to objects.  Pfizer, based in New York, plans to continue studying the
drug in animals, Smith said.  Novartis AG and  Roche Holding AG (ROG) , both based in  Basel ,
 Switzerland , and the closely held U.S. company Seaside
Therapeutics LLC are testing similar medicines in humans with
fragile X syndrome, a genetic condition characterized by mental
retardation, behavior problems, and delayed speech.  About 30 percent of patients with fragile X meet the
diagnostics criteria for autism, the study said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Shannon Pettypiece at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 