-- Putin’s Reversal of Democracy Pledge Risks New Protest Wave
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-04-26T09:57:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/putin-s-reversal-of-democracy-pledge-risks-new-wave-of-protests.html
Vladimir Putin  risks reigniting the
unrest that gripped Russia last year as opponents accuse him of
backtracking on pledges to make the political process more
democratic, investors from  Frankfurt  to Moscow said.  Four months after President  Dmitry Medvedev  promised to
restore direct elections for regional governorships, Putin’s
lawmakers are introducing measures that make it harder for
candidates to run, a move criticized by former Finance Minister
 Alexei Kudrin . The Kremlin is also racing to appoint governors
before the law takes effect.  That’s sparking complaints that Putin, 59, tricked the
opposition to quell the protests that brought tens of thousands
to the streets of Moscow and other cities. Putin’s actions may
test whether Russians are prepared to go back on the streets to
challenge his authority, with the risk for investors being a new
round of the market turmoil that wiped out 7.3 percent of the
value of companies in Russia’s benchmark stock index in a week.  “There is still significant risk of opposition protests,
both in Moscow and further afield,”  Roland Nash , chief
investment strategist at Verno Capital in Moscow, which manages
$200 million in assets, said by e-mail. “The political genie is
out of the bottle, and if the government doesn’t react, then
protests will continue.”  Re-pricing of Risk  Renewed political unrest, particularly if it affects
Moscow, “will definitely lead to a re-pricing of Russian
risk,” said Sergey Dergachev, who helps oversee $8.5 billion in
emerging-market funds at Union Investment Privatfonds in
Frankfurt.  The dollar-denominated RTS stock index lost more than 13
percent of its value and the ruble had its longest losing streak
since January 2009 in the 10 days after the disputed Dec. 4
parliamentary vote as tens of thousands of people protested in
 Russia ’s largest cities against what they said was fraud during
the election.  Russia’s 83 regions will be the focus of political
competition as Putin, who’ll be inaugurated on May 7 for a six-
year Kremlin term, ruled out any national challenge to his power
by refusing to hold new parliamentary elections after fraud
claims. The opposition, which mounted a hunger strike in the
southern city of Astrakhan after a disputed mayoral vote, is
vowing to escalate its campaign.  Right to Veto  Putin will probably have the right to veto candidates.
Aspiring governors must be vetted to protect Russia from the
threat of “nationalism and separatism,” he said on April 11.
The country fought two wars in the 1990s against breakaway
rebels in the mainly Muslim region of Chechnya.  “There won’t be any stability in the regions anymore,”
said  Gleb Pavlovsky , a former Kremlin adviser who heads the
Moscow-based Effective Policy Foundation. “A new life is
starting there and this law is going to provoke a growing number
of conflicts.”  As the unrest escalated, Medvedev announced the return to
direct elections for governors, who have been appointed by the
president since 2005, along with measures to make it easier to
register parties and run for president.  Political Stagnation  Medvedev on April 24 trumpeted the changes as
“unprecedented for the past 20 years,” while saying that
Russia’s political system is showing signs of “stagnation”
after stabilizing.  The president denied today that the law restoring the
direct election of governors approved yesterday by the lower
house of parliament created “obstacles” to political
competition.  The measure won’t remove the threat of regional authorities
bullying opposition candidates, according to Kudrin, who left
the government last year after clashing with Medvedev.  “We have ended up with an imitation of competition, which
is even worse than the absence of any elections,” Kudrin said
on his  website . “This has discredited the whole process of
political reform.”  With the last major protest having taken place in Moscow on
March 10, attended by about 10,000 people according to police,
the unrest has petered out since Putin’s re-election to the
presidency with 64 percent of the vote.  ‘Strong Leader’  “Russians want democracy with a strong leader,”  Ivan Tchakarov , chief economist for Russia and the  Commonwealth of
Independent States  at  Renaissance Capital  in Moscow, said by e-
mail, adding that he doesn’t see any appetite left for protests.  Regional elections now are the “main instrument for
change,” according to billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , who ran in
the presidential race as a pro-business candidate with Putin’s
blessing, picking up 8 percent of the vote.  “The return of elections for governor and the continued
election of mayors gives us the chance to bring to power new,
outstanding and effective people,” he wrote last month in an
article in his RBC Daily newspaper.  Vladimir Artyakov, the governor of the Volga region of
Samara whose five-year term expires in August, said he’s
confident of re-election even after  United Russia  got only 39
percent of the vote in the December parliamentary elections.  Ending the practice of appointing governors will
“stimulate the development of political competition and help
build civil society,” Artyakov said in an e-mail.  No Election Guarantee  Mikhail Matveyev, an independent lawmaker in Samara, says
the political changes “don’t guarantee honest elections” and
won’t result in “big competition.”  Challengers will need the approval of as many as 10 percent
of municipal lawmakers in the region. That may make it difficult
to challenge Putin’s ruling party, said Rostislav Turovsky, who
studies regional politics at the Moscow-based Center of
Political Technologies,  Most regional parliaments are controlled by United Russia
and will decide individually whether independent candidates are
allowed to run. If a region permits them to, non-party
challengers would have to gather between 0.5 percent and 2
percent of voters’ signatures in addition to the municipal
approval.  “The problem here is not only the dominance of Putin’s
United Russia party in the parliaments, but the municipalities’
financial dependence on governors,” Turovsky said by phone.
“Governors seeking re-election can easily put pressure on
them.”  Opposition Victories  Opposition candidates prevailed in mayoral votes in the
regional capitals of Yaroslavl, Oryol, Naryan-Mar, as well as in
Togliatti, where Russia’s largest carmaker, OAO AvtoVAZ, is
based. Togliatti’s new mayor Sergei Andreyev was barred from the
2008 election because of a complaint about the unauthorized use
of a photograph of a building on his campaign literature. Still,
the mayor’s freedom of action is limited because the city is
running a  budget deficit  and depends on the regional authorities
for financing.  The new process may end up hurting Putin rather than
fostering competition as the administrative hurdles give people
more opportunities to “show their discontent,” said Turovsky.  Public anger may also be stoked by municipal tariffs rising
in July as well as plans to make Russians pay more for state
medicine and education from July 1, said Dmitry Orlov, an
analyst at the Moscow-based Agency for Political and Economic
Communications, which advises the government.  Putin will face a “zone of maximum risk” in 2015, half-
way through his six-year term, when about a third of Russia’s
regions will hold gubernatorial races, said Pavlovsky.  “Regional protests will definitely exist, but their
severity and their transmission and ability to mobilize more
protesters in Moscow will be key to watch,” said Dergachev at
Union Investment. “If public discontent grows further and
mobilizes people in the capital, I regard the risk of tougher
and more populous protests in Moscow as a real possibility.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  