-- MQ May Expand to 50 Norway Stores From Four, CEO Gardsell Says
-- B y   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r
-- 2012-04-25T09:31:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/mq-may-expand-to-50-norway-stores-from-four-ceo-gardsell-says.html
MQ AB (MQ) , a Swedish fashion retailer
which sells both proprietary and external brands, sees potential
for as many as 50 stores in  Norway  from today’s four, said Chief
Executive Officer Mats Gardsell.  MQ’s “vision” is to cover the entire Nordic region of
Norway,  Sweden , Finland,  Denmark  and Iceland, Gardsell said in a
interview. The chain has 111 outlets in Sweden while it lacks
presence in the three other countries. Gardsell said MQ may
expand in those markets by opening stores or starting online
sales. Before moving forward, however, MQ wants to establish
itself properly in Norway, he said.  The company started sales online in its home market Sweden
in the second half of 2010 and still sees some room for
additional stores in the country, Gardsell said.  “It’s all about finding the right location, the right
city, street and mall,” he said. “You still have to work to
get the right location, it hasn’t become much easier in the past
year.”  The Gothenburg, Sweden-based company aims for sales growth
of at least 10 percent over a business cycle. MQ’s sales dropped
8.9 percent in the fiscal year 2008/2009, and have been growing
at an annual pace of just over 3.5 percent since, according to
 annual reports . For the financial year 2010/2011, ended Aug. 31,
its first entire year as a listed company, MQ had sales of 1.49
billion kronor ($221 million.)  MQ last year hired a new head of design, Lotta Lindsten and
is now better focused on the right products that “feel
relevant” to the company’s customers, Gardsell said. So far
this year the stock is up 21 percent.  Sales in the second quarter of the current financial year
increased 1.9 percent to 422 million kronor the company said
March 23. MQ, whose external brands include  Calvin Klein , Scotch
& Soda and Peak Performance, added five new brands in the period
of which all are external.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janina Pfalzer in  Stockholm  at 
 jpfalzer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at   cwienberg@bloomberg.net . 