-- Rand Rises to 3-Week High Against Dollar Before Fed Ends Meeting
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-04-25T14:35:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/rand-gains-for-second-day-on-u-s-earnings-europe-debt-auctions.html
The rand advanced to a three-week
high on speculation  Federal Reserve  officials meeting today will
signal they remain open to a further round of asset purchases to
spur growth, fueling demand for riskier assets.  South Africa’s currency gained as much as 0.6 percent to
7.7510 per dollar, the strongest level since April 4. It traded
0.5 percent up at 7.7607 as of 4:06 p.m. in Johannesburg. The
yield on the nation’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 climbed one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 7.68 percent.  The Dollar Index, which measures the greenback’s
performance against a basket of major currencies, dropped as
U.S. durable-goods orders fell last month by the most in three
years, a sign the world’s largest economy is slowing. The
 Federal Open Market Committee  will publish its forecasts for
 interest rates , growth and inflation and Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke will hold a press conference. A further round of asset
purchases would boost demand for higher-yielding assets
including South African stocks and bonds.  “Much of the focus will rest with the outcome of the FOMC
decision and statement this evening,”  George Glynos , an
economist at Johannesburg-based ETM Analytics, wrote in e-mailed
comments today. “Supportive comments from Fed Chairman Bernanke
will go some way to alleviating the pressure on risk assets.”  The rand also strengthened after Apple Inc., Boeing Co. and
Electrolux AB posted earnings that beat estimates. An index of
global  emerging-market stocks  climbed for a second day and South
Africa’s benchmark stock  index  advanced.  The yield on  South Africa ’s $1.5 billion of 4.665 bonds due
2024 dropped 28 basis points to 4.175 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  