-- Rangers’ Tickets Climb to $500 as Team Hosts Decisive NHL Game 7
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-04-26T04:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/rangers-tickets-climb-to-500-as-team-hosts-decisive-nhl-game-7.html
New York  Rangers fans will have to
dig a bit deeper in their pockets to see their team host Game 7
of a National Hockey League playoff series for the first time
since winning the Stanley Cup in 1994.  The average price for tickets for tonight’s game against
the  Ottawa Senators  at New York’s Madison Square Garden has
climbed to $493, according to  TiqIQ , an aggregator of the online
resale ticket market. The price is up 44 percent from four days
ago, after the Rangers fell behind three games to two in the
best-of-seven first-round playoff series.  Face value ranges from $110 to $440 for Game 7 tickets. At
TiqIQ, the seats are listed at $223 to $2,088.  “It’s definitely a premium and since the Rangers haven’t
been here in 18 years, it’s almost like a novelty in a sense,”
TiqIQ spokesman Chris Matcovich said in a telephone interview.
“Sometimes fans become nostalgic and will pay to see their team
in a big game.”  The Rangers are the top seed in the Eastern Conference for
the first time since the 1993-94 season and have already kept
their postseason run alive once, with a 3-2 victory in Game 6 in
Ottawa two days ago. Now they’re one victory away from their
first playoff series win since 2008.  “Our backs were against the wall and we showed some
desperation,” Rangers defenseman Marc Staal told reporters
after the Game 6 win.  The last time New York hosted a decisive seventh game of an
NHL playoff series was June 14, 1994, when the Rangers beat the
 Vancouver Canucks  3-2 to win the Stanley Cup. The Rangers that
year also beat the  New Jersey Devils  at home in Game 7 of the
Eastern Conference finals.  Florida ‘Apathetic’ Market  The Rangers’ average ticket prices for tonight’s game
against the eighth-seeded Senators are the highest for Game 7 of
any first-round series in the past three years, TiqIQ said. The
price dwarfs that for the Devils’ seventh game against the
Florida Panthers tonight outside Miami, where the average ticket
price is $166 at TiqIQ.  “Florida tends to be an apathetic sports market,
especially for first-round games,” said Joellen Ferrer,
spokeswoman for online ticket reseller  StubHub.com .  Even with the rarity of a Game 7 in New York, ticket prices
aren’t coming close to last year’s deciding game in the  Stanley
Cup  finals. When the  Vancouver  Canucks hosted -- and lost to --
the  Boston Bruins  in Game 7, average prices topped $5,000 on the
secondary market, exceeding the cost for Super Bowl seats and
for tickets to the 2010 Olympic gold medal hockey game between
 Canada  and the U.S. in Vancouver.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  