-- RBNZ Signals Rate Pause May Be Extended on Currency Strength
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-04-26T00:04:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/rbnz-signals-rate-pause-may-be-extended-on-currency-strength-1-.html
New Zealand ’s central bank left
 interest rates  at a record low, citing benign inflation, and
signaled that the rising currency may delay an increase in
borrowing costs.  “The  New Zealand dollar  has stayed elevated despite recent
falls in commodity prices,” Governor Alan Bollard said in a
statement in Wellington today. “For now, it is appropriate for
the official cash rate to remain at 2.5 percent. Should the
exchange rate remain strong without anything else changing, the
bank would need to reassess the outlook for monetary policy
settings.”  Investors are betting the central bank won’t raise rates
until next year because annual inflation is slower than the
midpoint of its 1 percent to 3 percent target range. The local
dollar’s 4.9 percent gain this year, the second-best performer
of 16 currencies tracked by Bloomberg, is making imports cheaper
while returns from commodity exports are declining as prices
fall.  “A persistently higher  exchange rate  with all other things
constant would imply interest rates either on hold for longer or
even lower for the same inflation outcome,” said  Nick Tuffley ,
chief economist at ASB Bank Ltd. in Auckland. He expects no
change in rates until March.  New Zealand’s dollar rose after Bollard’s comments. It
bought 81.47 U.S. cents at 11:25 a.m. in Wellington from 81.34
cents immediately before the statement. Traders interpreted the
phrase “for now” as suggesting the cash rate may rise sooner,
said Annette Beacher, the Singapore-based head of Asia-Pacific
research at TD Securities Inc.  Inflation ‘Restrained’  The chance of a quarter-point rate cut by September rose to
44 percent today from 12 percent on April 24, according to swaps
prices from  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  New Zealand markets were
closed yesterday.  “Inflation is restrained and is expected to stay near the
middle of the bank’s target range,” Bollard said. Consumer
prices rose 1.6 percent in the year through March, less than
Bollard forecast last month.  Bollard has left the cash rate unchanged since March last
year to allow the economy to recover after the nation’s
deadliest earthquake in 80 years in Christchurch, its second-
largest city, and the surrounding Canterbury province.  Today’s decision was forecast by all 16 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. Two economists forecast a rate increase
before Sept. 30 and 11 pick an increase by the end of the year.
Five project no change until 2013.  Economic Growth  New Zealand’s economic growth slowed more than economists
predicted in the fourth quarter, expanding 0.3 percent after a
0.7 percent advance in the July-September period, a government
report showed March 22. That was half the 0.6 percent median
projection for growth in a Bloomberg survey of 16 economists.  Growth in the 12 months through Dec. 31 was 1.8 percent,
matching the third-quarter pace, the report showed.  Bollard
last month forecast the economy will grow 3.1 percent in the
year ending March 31, 2013.  “The domestic economy is showing signs of recovery,”
Bollard said today. “Housing market activity continues to
increase and a recovery in building activity appears to be under
way as forecast. That recovery will strengthen as repairs and
reconstruction in Canterbury pick up later in the year.”  New Zealand’s recovery has been slow amid concerns over
weak global demand for exports, which make up 30 percent of the
economy. Milk powder prices fell to their lowest level since
2009 at an auction last week, according to Auckland-based
Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the world’s biggest dairy
exporter.  Milk Payments  Fonterra last month lowered its forecast milk payment to
farmer suppliers, citing falling prices and currency gains.  Still, business confidence rose to a seven-month high in
March, according to a survey of 421 firms by ANZ National Bank
Ltd. Confidence was led higher by the  construction industry ,
which rose to a 23-month high, ANZ said.  House sales in March recorded the best monthly result since
November 2007, the Real Estate Institute said April 16. Prices
rose 1.9 percent from February, the report showed.  Unlike counterparts in  Australia  and elsewhere in  Asia ,
Bollard hasn’t responded to weak global demand by cutting
borrowing costs because he expects earthquake rebuilding will
stoke inflation in coming years.  India ’s central bank on April 17 cut rates for the first
time since 2009 to bolster growth. Investors this week raised
bets the  Reserve Bank  of Australia will cut its benchmark
 interest rate  from 4.25 percent next month after a gauge of core
consumer prices rose at the slowest pace since 1998.  The  Federal Reserve  is ready to take additional action if
needed to boost the  U.S. economy , Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
yesterday.  “The global outlook remains of concern,” Bollard said
today. “Near-term indicators have moderated and financial
 market sentiment  is still fragile.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  