-- RBNZ Signals Extended Rate Pause on Strength of Currency
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-04-25T21:09:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/rbnz-signals-extended-rate-pause-on-strength-of-currency.html
New Zealand ’s central bank left
 interest rates  at a record low as sluggish economic growth and a
rising currency ease inflation pressure.  “The  New Zealand dollar  has stayed elevated despite recent
falls in commodity prices,” Governor Alan Bollard said in a
statement in Wellington today after keeping the official cash
rate at 2.5 percent.  “Should the  exchange rate  remain strong
without anything else changing the bank would need to reassess
the outlook for monetary policy settings.” The decision was
forecast by all 16 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Investors are betting the central bank won’t raise  interest
rates  until next year because annual inflation is less than the
midpoint of the 1 percent to 3 percent range the governor is
required to target. Consumer prices rose 1.6 percent in the year
through March, less than Bollard forecast last month when he
signaled the cash rate would be unchanged for much of 2012.  “With the economy continuing to struggle to grow at an
above-trend pace and with inflation pressures still benign,
there is no case to be made for tightening policy in the
foreseeable future,”  Darren Gibbs , chief New Zealand economist
at Deutsche Bank AG in Auckland, said before the statement.  New Zealand’s dollar was little changed after Bollard’s
comments. It bought 81.50 U.S. cents at 9:06 a.m. in Wellington
from 81.35 cents immediately before the statement. The currency
has gained 4.9 percent this year, the second-best performer of
16 tracked by Bloomberg.  Bollard has left the cash rate unchanged since March last
year to allow the economy to recover after the nation’s
deadliest earthquake in 80 years in Christchurch, its second-
largest city, and the surrounding Canterbury province, which
killed 185 people and closed the central city.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  