-- U.K. Rules Risk $32 Billion of Future Market Value, RBS CEO Says
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-04-25T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/rbs-may-face-32-billion-value-cost-from-regulation-hester-says.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
may lose as much as 20 billion pounds ($32 billion) from its
future market value because of planned U.K. regulatory changes,
Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  said.  The “regulatory environment has changed even more
dramatically than we bargained for,” Hester said in the text of
a speech at the Manchester Business School yesterday. “U.K.
regulatory reforms on their own have probably cost 10 to 20
billion pounds from our future market value.”  The government-sponsored Independent Commission on Banking
recommended in September the U.K.’s biggest banks should boost
capital, implement plans for an orderly bankruptcy and erect
fire breaks around their consumer units to boost the stability
of the financial system. The proposals also mean that banks will
no longer be allowed to use their consumer units to provide
cheap funding for investment-banking units.  Greater regulation is adding to a slower-than-expected
economic recovery and turbulent markets, said Hester, 51. The
British economy shrank in the first quarter as Britain slid into
its first double-dip recession since the 1970s, figures from the
 Office for National Statistics  showed yesterday.  “We can cope with these extra challenges, but they use up
the outperformance we have achieved and they mean that our
shareholders, indeed all bank shareholders, will see value
recover less well than hoped,” he said.  Two More Years  The government was forced to rescue RBS at the height of
the financial crisis, injecting 45.5 billion pounds of taxpayer
money into the lender, making it the costliest bailout of any
bank in the world. Hester said in the speech that the cost of
cleaning up the lender he inherited from former CEO  Fred Goodwin 
totals 43 billion pounds so far.  RBS still has two more years of “heavy lifting,
significant clean-up costs and vulnerability to outside events”
as it restructures its business, Hester said.  RBS fell 0.3 percent to 23.2 pence at the close of London
trading yesterday. The  shares  have rallied 15 percent this year,
boosting the Edinburgh-based lender’s market value to about 26
billion pounds. The U.K., which owns 82 percent of the lender,
paid an average of 50.2 pence a share for its holding.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  