-- Treasuries Recover Losses as Bernanke Keeps QE Hope Alive
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-04-25T21:10:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/treasuries-rise-as-europe-debt-crisis-spurs-haven-demand.html
Treasuries recovered most of their
losses after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  kept
speculation alive that policy makers would embark on another
round of monetary stimulus if economic growth slows.  Government bonds  slumped for a second day after central
bank policy makers said they expect growth to accelerate, while
refraining from new actions to lower borrowing costs such as
additional bond purchases, which has become known as
quantitative easing. The Fed remains “prepared to do more as
needed,” Bernanke said at a press conference following a
meeting of the  Federal Open Market Committee  in  Washington .  “Bernanke basically said QE is not really off the table,”
said  Michael Franzese , managing director and head of Treasury
trading at Wunderlich Securities Inc. in New York. “That’s why
Treasuries rebounded.”  The  yield  on the benchmark 10-year note rose one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 1.98 percent at 5 p.m. in
 New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices, after
rising as high as 2.04 percent. The 2 percent note due February
2022 fell 3/32, or 94 cents per $1,000 face value, to 100 1/8.
The yield has  dropped  for five straight weeks after touching 2.4
percent on March 20.  Yields on 30-year bonds, which are at risk for the biggest
losses as inflation accelerates, increased two basis points to
3.15 percent after rising to as high as 3.19 percent.  Unemployment Forecast  Policy makers are holding off on additional steps to boost
the economy amid signs the more than two-year expansion is
gaining strength. Still, the jobless rate isn’t declining fast
enough to satisfy central bankers, who repeated their view today
that borrowing costs are likely to remain “exceptionally low”
at least through late 2014.  Fed officials forecast the  unemployment rate  would average
7.8 percent to 8 percent in the final three months of this year
versus a forecast of 8.2 percent to 8.5 percent in January.  Seven of 17 Fed officials expect borrowing costs to remain
below 1 percent at the end of 2014, compared with nine in
January, while 10 expected rates to be 1 percent or higher,
versus eight in January. The Fed has kept the benchmark lending
rate close to zero since December 2008.  “The Fed is very determinedly accommodative,” said  Jay Mueller , who manages about $3 billion of bonds at Wells Capital
Management in  Milwaukee . “They’re going to stay
accommodative.”  Inflation Outlook  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of bonds in two rounds of so-
called quantitative easing between December 2008 and June 2011.  The central bank is also replacing $400 billion of shorter-
term debt in its holdings with longer maturities to hold down
borrowing costs, what traders have dubbed Operation Twist.  Policy makers said inflation has increased somewhat, though
the effect of higher gas prices will be temporary. Bernanke
expects inflation to moderate to about 2 percent this year.  The five-year, five-year forward  break-even  rate, a measure
of traders’ inflation expectations that the Fed uses to help
guide monetary policy was at 2.63 percent, below its 2.76
percent average during the past decade.  Today’s $35 billion five-year note auction’s bid-to-cover
 ratio , which gauges demand by comparing total bids with the
amount of securities offered, was 3.09, compared with an average
of 2.88 for the previous 10 sales.  Indirect bidders , an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 47.5 percent of the notes, compared
with an average of 43.5 percent for the past 10 sales.  Auction Demand  “The auction went very well,” said  Charles Comiskey , head
of Treasury trading at Bank of  Nova Scotia  in New York, one of
21 primary dealers that bid on the sale. “The concession was
good.”  Direct bidders, non-primary dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 9.4 percent of
the notes, compared with an average of 12.1 percent at the last
10 auctions.  The notes were sold at a so-called high yield of 0.887
percent. The  record  low auction yield for the five-year note was
0.88 percent in December.  “When cash earns you zero, buying a five-year at 88 basis
points is attractive in an environment where the Fed won’t be
doing anything for a couple of years and there are challenges to
the global economy,” said  David Ader , head of U.S. government-
bond strategy at CRT Capital Group LLC in Stamford Connecticut.  Investors get 2.30 percentage points of extra  yield  by
buying 30-year bonds instead of five-year notes. The average
spread over the past decade is 1.47 percentage points.  Technical Levels  U.S. five-year notes have returned 0.5 percent this year,
while the broad market is little changed, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes.  The yield may encounter resistance at the Feb. 15 low of
0.7736 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
yield may find support at the 100-day moving average, currently
at 0.888 percent, the data show.  Resistance refers to an area on a chart where technical
analysts anticipate orders to sell a security to be clustered. A
support level is an area where they anticipate buy orders will
be grouped.  Ten-year yields will increase to 2.54 percent by year-end,
according to a Bloomberg survey of financial companies with the
most recent projections given the heaviest weightings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  