-- REC Rises on Industry Beating Polysilicon Costs: Oslo Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2012-04-25T11:07:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/rec-reports-loss-as-it-closes-wafer-production-in-norway.html
Renewable Energy Corp. ASA (REC) , the
Norwegian maker of solar-energy components, rose the most in
more than a month as it met cost targets for polysilicon
production and closed a wafer plant.  REC rose as much as 8.4 percent, the most since March 15,
and was up 6.8 percent at 3.21 kroner as of 12:57 p.m. in the
Norwegian capital, making it the second- biggest gainer  in the
Bloomberg Global Leaders Solar Index.  “The cash costs in the polysilicon division were very
strong,” Eirik Vegem Dahle, an analyst at Pareto Securities
ASA, said by phone. REC is industry leading in its production
cost for polysilicon and will survive an industry shakeout,
Dahle wrote in a note to clients.  European solar-component makers are under pressure from
Chinese rivals that expanded capacity just as consumption
slowed, causing wafer and cell prices to plummet. REC,
Solarworld AG and Q-Cells SE have cut production as demand
shrinks in the region, where Germany, France and  Italy  have
reduced subsidies to cap booming solar installations.  REC’s cash cost of producing a metric ton of polysilicon
fell to $12.50 in the first quarter from $14 the fourth quarter,
achieving a target set for the end of 2012, the company said.  Price Pressure  REC produced 5,672 metric tons of polysilicon in the
quarter. Multicrystalline and monocrystalline wafer output was
84 megawatts. It produced 157 megawatts of modules, in line with
the projected 160 megawatts.  First-quarter earnings before interest, tax, depreciation
and amortization were 455 million kroner ($79.6 million),
beating the 436 million-krone estimate of 11 analysts  surveyed 
by Bloomberg. It posted a net loss of 209 million kroner.  “Industry wide overcapacity continued to put pressure on
market prices throughout the quarter,” the Sandvika-based
company said in a statement. Low prices are “putting a severe
margin pressure on most market participants and production
capacity continues to be adjusted down throughout the industry”  REC decided to close its remaining wafer production in
 Norway  as cost cuts at the Heroeya plant were unable to keep
pace with falling wafer prices, the company said yesterday.  It’s not considering any asset sales in its polysilicon or
module divisions following the halt in Norway, Chief Executive
Officer Ole Enger said today in an interview.  Average selling prices for polysilicon fell 15 percent in
the quarter, wafer prices were down 24 percent and module prices
dropped 18 percent, REC said.  While low product prices will force more solar producers
into insolvency, low valuations and a positive outlook for solar
energy will lead to more consolidation, Enger said.  “We will see more restructuring,” he said.  “We see
activity both among the industry and also among private equity
or others.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  