-- Three Reasons Japan’s Economic Pain Is Getting Worse
-- B y   J a r e d   D i a m o n d
-- 2012-04-25T23:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/three-reasons-japan-s-economic-pain-is-getting-worse.html
Japan ’s economic problems are
serious and getting worse. Foremost among them is the crushing
burden of government debt.  Japan’s ratio of government debt to  gross domestic product ,
currently about 2.28, is by far the highest in the industrial
world, almost double that of even Greece and  Italy , and steadily
growing. Already, the combined costs of interest on that debt
and social security are approximately equal to total government
tax revenue.  Japan’s  trade balance  is about to go negative for the first
time since 1980. Land values and  Nikkei stock values  have fallen
to about 30 percent of 1989 levels. Now, educated young Japanese
women are emigrating, Japanese companies are shifting production
overseas (even to the U.S.), national politics are in gridlock
(six prime ministers in the past five years), and last year
Japan experienced its first mass street protests in decades.  The economic troubles are symptoms of at least three sets
of deeper social problems. Regardless of what policies Japan now
adopts, its troubles can only increase unless those social
problems are solved. While all three of these also beset other
industrial societies, certain local attitudes make them more
severe in Japan.  Marriage and Babies  Throughout the industrial world, birth rates are falling,
and fewer people are marrying.  Japan’s rate  (7.31 births per
year per 1,000 people), already the world’s lowest, is still
dropping. If its rate of decrease over the past two years is
extrapolated, it reaches zero by 2017. Naturally, this dire
outcome won’t actually happen, but the calculation does
emphasize that the problem is increasing.  In the U.S. and most European countries, in contrast, birth
rates are still more than 10 per year per 1,000 people, and in
Nigeria and Tanzania, they are more than 40.  Japan’s  marriage rate  is low, too, even by industrial-world
standards: 5.8 marriages per year per 1,000 people, compared
with 9.8 in the U.S. The average age of marriage in Japan is now
31, and 18 percent of Japanese women 35 to 39 have never been
married.  These numbers don’t reveal whether the reluctance to marry
and to have children is on the part of men, women or both. In
the absence of rigorous sociological polling, I’ll summarize
interviews that Japanese friends have conducted for me. They
report that most single adult Japanese still live with their
parents, because it’s comfortable to live at home and expensive
to leave.  Young Japanese feel more comfortable communicating with
each other electronically than by phone or in person. “Over the
years that the formerly widespread practice of arranged marriage
almost completely disappeared,” one person explained to me, “the
digital revolution made it increasingly difficult for Japanese
to develop the social skills necessary to woo a potential spouse
themselves.” Among men, the biggest reasons given for not
marrying are worries about their economic future and their
ability to bear the responsibility for a family.  Married women tend to manage the household finances and
take care of both their own and their husbands’ parents, and
many of them now swear they will be the last generation to be
saddled with those burdens. Career women, who find strength in
their education, jobs and earning power, are capable of
supporting themselves in the style to which they aspire, and are
buying condominiums and planning for their own retirements. If
they do want to marry, they find that their age is an obstacle,
because Japanese men over the age of 40 want much younger women.
If they do want children, Japanese societal support for working
mothers is low. Hence they either forgo children, or leave the
workforce or even leave Japan, and that represents a big loss of
human capital for the country.  Much of what I have just said about marriage and babies
applies to some degree around the industrial world. Why should
these issues be acute in Japan? In most other countries, women’s
new opportunities are creating tension between men and women,
but it has been manageable because male society has made some
accommodation. Japan is the industrial country where women’s
roles were, until recently, most stereotyped; hence male
resistance to women’s expectations is still the greatest there.  Old People, Immigrants  Again throughout the industrial world, falling birth rates
and improved medical care have resulted in  aging populations ,
making it harder to fund retirement systems over the long term.
Those trends reach their extreme in Japan because of its record-
low birth rate and relatively healthy lifestyles. It is the
country with the largest share of population (22 percent) over
65 years of age. Except for  Monaco , it also has the longest  life
expectancy , 84 years.  But numbers alone don’t indicate the extent of the
problems. After all, the percentage of the population over 65 in
other First World countries is between 14 percent and 20
percent. What makes the problem so serious in Japan is the
country’s refusal to do what other countries have done: admit
massive immigration of younger people from overseas. It is very
difficult to immigrate to Japan, and (having immigrated) even
harder to obtain citizenship. Japan is the world’s most
homogeneous large country.  This rejection of immigration not only bodes ill for the
future of Japan’s retirement system, but also deprives the
country of the pool of workers, artists, scientists and
inventors that immigrants represent for the U.S., Western Europe
and  Australia . Many notable Americans have been immigrants or
their children. The long list includes, in recent times,  Albert Einstein , Sergei Rachmaninoff, Vladimir Nabokov, Wernher von
Braun,  Henry Kissinger  and our current president. Differences in
immigration policies contribute directly to the big gap between
the U.S. and Japan in Nobel Prizes. The U.S. leads the world in
those awards, while Japan wins few despite high government
outlays for science.  Scientific advances are essential to a technology-based
economy. Thus, while immigration creates big problems, lack of
it creates bigger ones.  Non-Sustainable Resources  No industrialized country is self-sufficient in renewable
natural resources, especially forest products and seafood. Some
must be imported.  If the world’s forests and fisheries were well managed,
forest products and seafood could be harvested sustainably in
perpetuity. Unfortunately, most harvesting is destructive and
non-sustainable. Most of the world’s major fisheries are
declining or have already collapsed.  Hence many government agencies and nongovernmental
organizations around the world are working toward
sustainability. One might naively predict that Japan, a small
country that is one of the most  dependent on resource imports ,
would be the world’s leading promoter of sustainability. But the
reverse is true: Japan may be the First World country most
opposed to sustainable policies. Its imports of illegally
sourced and unsustainably harvested forest products are much
higher than those of the U.S. or European Union countries,
whether calculated on a per-capita basis or as a percentage of
total forest product imports.  And Japan is a world leader in opposing prudent regulation
of fishing and whaling. Incredibly, in 2010, Japan saw it as a
great diplomatic triumph that it blocked international
protection for Atlantic/Mediterranean  bluefin tuna  -- even
though the fish, whose stocks are declining, is especially
prized and widely consumed in Japan.  Even my Japanese friends are puzzled by this stance. They
suggest three explanations. First, Japanese people see
themselves as living in harmony with nature, and until recently
they did expertly manage their own forests -- though not the
overseas forests and fisheries that they exploit. Second,
national pride causes the Japanese to dislike bowing to
international pressure. The country especially does not want to
give in to the anti-whaling campaign of the Sea Shepherd
conservation organization, even though few Japanese eat whale
meat; the whaling industry operates at a big loss; and tsunami
relief funds have had to be diverted to subsidize whaling escort
ships.  Finally, because Japan is aware of its own limited home
resources, it has for the past 140 years maintained at all
costs, as the core of its national security, its right of
unrestricted access to the world’s natural resources. In today’s
times of declining availability, that insistence is no longer
viable.  To an outside admirer of Japan like me, its opposition to
sustainable resource use seems sad and self-destructive.
Unrealistic quests for resources drove the country to self-
destructive behavior once before, when it made war
simultaneously on  China , the U.S., the U.K., Australia,  New
Zealand  and the Netherlands. Defeat today is as inevitable as it
was then -- this time, not by military conquest, but by
exhaustion of both renewable and nonrenewable natural resources.
If I were the evil dictator of another country who hated Japan
and wanted to ruin it without resort to war, I would do exactly
what Japan is now doing to itself: destroy the overseas resource
bases on which it depends.  The Future  Since Japan’s economic problems result from its social
problems, their solution will require changes in Japanese
attitudes toward women’s roles, immigration and sustainable
resource use. Can Japan undertake the painful reappraisals this
will require?  One cause for cautious optimism is the country’s history.
Twice in modern times, Japan has accomplished selective change.
The most drastic example came with the Meiji Restoration that
began in 1868. The forced opening of ports by Commodore Perry in
1853-54 raised the specter that Japan might be taken over by
Western powers. But the country saved itself with a crash
program: It ended its isolation from the outside world and
jettisoned its shogun leader, its samurai class, its feudal land
system and its ban on guns. It adopted a constitution, a cabinet
government, a national army, industrialization, a European-style
banking system, a new school system and much Western clothing,
food and music.  At the same time, it retained its emperor, language,
writing system and most of its culture. Japan thereby not only
preserved its independence, but also became the first non-
Western country to rival the West in wealth and power.  Again, after World War II, Japan made drastic selective
changes, abandoning its military tradition and its notion of a
divine emperor in favor of adopting democracy and developing an
export economy.  Once again, Japan can selectively reappraise its core
values, let go of those that no longer make sense, and retain
the ones that still do and that give the country strength.  So far, however, this doesn’t seem to be happening.  (Jared Diamond, a professor of geography at the  University
of California ,  Los Angeles , is the author of “Guns, Germs and
Steel” and “Collapse.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on  saving Social Security 
and  dealing with China ;  Noah Feldman  on  Arizona immigration
arguments ;  Caroline Baum  on the  fiscal future ;  Ezra Klein  on
 money and politics ;  Susan Crawford  on  cyber protection ; Steven
Neil Kaplan on  inequality and unemployment .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jared Diamond at  JDiamond@geog.ucla.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  