-- Repsol Pledges Ratings Defense Using Bonds, ’Black Stuff’
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-04-25T10:45:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/repsol-pledges-ratings-defense-using-bonds-black-stuff-3-.html
Repsol YPF SA (REP)  will do “whatever it
takes” to defend its investment-grade  credit rating  after the
Argentine government seized the unit that made a fifth of the
company’s profit, a spokesman said. Repsol’s bonds rallied.  Spain’s largest  oil company  plans to give investors the
choice of receiving dividends in the form of shares, and to
allow holders of about 3 billion euros ($4 billion) of preferred
shares to swap them for mandatory convertible bonds, Repsol’s
Kristian Rix in Madrid said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Repsol’s finances also will be bolstered by new output in
Spain, Peru and Bolivia this year and by a 12 percent gain in
crude prices in the past six months as it battles to overcome
 YPF SA (YPFD) ’s expropriation. The company has a better chance to keep
its credit rating because it’s an oil producer, which offers it
some protection from  Europe ’s financial crisis, said Tim Barker,
head of credit research at Societe Generale SA in  London .  “Defending a business that is built around oil has to be
easier than in other areas -- the ‘black stuff’ is up front and
center,” Barker said. “For a company to come out and offer
solutions is very encouraging for a debt investor.”  Standard & Poor’s cut Repsol’s credit rating last week one
step to BBB-, one level above junk, and warned the oil company
faces another downgrade unless it cuts its debt this year after
Argentine President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  seized a 51
percent stake in YPF on April 16 and ejected Madrid-based
Repsol’s officers from the unit’s  Buenos Aires  headquarters.  Default Insurance Drops  The cost of insuring Repsol’s bonds fell by the most in
almost two years, according to Bloomberg prices for credit-
default swaps. Contracts on the company tumbled 36 basis points
to 355.8, the biggest drop since it declined more than 60 basis
points on May 10, 2010. The swaps reached a more than three-year
high two days ago.  Repsol’s 1 billion euros of 4.875 percent bonds due 2019
rose for a second day, to 96.26 cents on the euro compared with
91.63 cents on April 23 before the news, according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader Prices as of 12:08 p.m. in  Madrid . The spread
compared with a similar duration government benchmark narrowed
to 439 basis points from 508 basis points in the two-day period.  “Retaining an investment grade is the key for bondholders
and even shareholders since a junk rating would mean
significantly higher borrowing costs,” said Tony Bauchet, a
senior analyst at Axa Investment Managers in Paris, which
oversees 515 billion euros of assets. “Moreover, the access to
the  bond market  will become more difficult, especially for a
Spanish company.”  The measures planned “will ensure we keep our rating, but
we have an additional buffer in the form of liquid assets that
can be converted to cash,” Rix of Repsol said, without giving
details. “We will do whatever it takes to maintain the
investment-grade rating.”  The shares rose 1.8 percent in Madrid to 14.40 euros. The
stock has lost 18 percent since  Argentina  announced the
expropriation on April 16.  “Even as the mandatory convertible bonds will end up
diluting shareholders, the focus is now on fixing the short-term
concerns,” said Nicolas Gouju, a Paris-based  fund manager  at
Groupama Asset Management, who helps to manage 80 billion euros
of assets. “The fact that the company has a clear plan is good
news for bondholders and even shareholders.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Timothy Coulter at 
 tcoulter@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  