-- Tribeca Festival Presents Murder, Horror, Texan Dummies
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2012-04-25T02:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/tribeca-festival-presents-murder-horror-texan-dummies.html
In 1966, a black waiter in a
whites-only  Mississippi  restaurant shared his heartbreak with
the nation.  He may or may not have been murdered for it.  His name was Booker Wright, and he’s given voice in Raymond
De Felitta’s moving documentary “Booker’s Place: A Mississippi
Story.”  De Felitta’s film, which premiered at the  Tribeca Film
Festival  and opens in Los Angeles and  New York  this week, is the
culmination of an intriguing family saga.  The director’s father, also a filmmaker, gave Wright his
first, fateful moment in the national spotlight.  Frank De Felitta, now 90, worked for NBC in the 1960s when
he directed a documentary called “Mississippi: A Self
Portrait.”  In that 1966 film, he interviewed residents of Greenwood, a
town notorious for its many lynchings.  One of those interviewed was Wright. Dressed in a waiter’s
white jacket and black bow-tie, Wright jovially recited a steak-
house menu that the restaurant’s owners refused to commit to
writing -- a tactic that allowed cashiers to ring up exorbitant
prices for black customers who dared enter.  When Wright finished his recitation, he dropped the act. On
camera, he spoke of the epithets and debasement he endured in
order to build a better life for his children.  “You have to smile,” he said. “The meaner the man be,
the more you smile, although you’re crying on the inside.”  Fire, Murder  Reaction was swift. Wright lost his job at the steak house.
His own restaurant (called Booker’s Place, it catered to black
patrons) was nearly destroyed by arson, and he was brutally
pistol-whipped by a policeman.  Wright was shot to death in 1973, following an altercation
with a black customer outside Booker’s Place. The new
documentary suggests the killer might have been recruited by
local authorities, though the speculation is thin and the least
effective portion of the film.  De Felitta is more successful in piecing together the sad
details of Wright’s difficult life.  He interviews, among others, Wright’s family (granddaughter
Yvette Johnson is a co-producer of the film) and his own father
(who has long regretted including Wright’s comments in the 1966
film).  “Booker’s Place,” from Tribeca Film, opens today in  Los
Angeles  and Friday in New York. Rating: ***1/2  ‘The Revisionaries’  The Texas school board member who recently played an
important role in determining the nation’s textbook standards is
no dinosaur-denier.  In fact, he’s sure they existed -- on Noah’s Ark.  Scott Thurman’s culture-war documentary “The
Revisionaries” is a revealing look at how politics has
infiltrated education.  The film chronicles the Texas State Board of Education’s
2009-2010 hearings to determine science and social studies
curricula.  Representing a huge market for textbooks, the Texas board
is crucial to publishers who supply the nation’s classrooms. The
board members are locally-elected officials, with or without
academic training.  “Somebody’s got to stand up to experts,” says Don
McLeroy, the affable, arrogant Young-Earth Creationist who
emerges as the documentary’s central figure. He’s as pleasant as
he is enraging.  “The Revisionaries” was reviewed at the Tribeca Film
Festival. Rating: ***  ‘War Witch’  A young girl is forced to shoot her own parents in the
opening moments of “War Witch,” Canadian director Kim Nguyen’s
harrowing drama of child soldiers in  Africa .  Even without being excessively graphic, the horrors that
unfold in this lyrical film might be unbearable without the
lovely, understated performance of newcomer Rachel Mwanza.  As a 12-year-old village girl kidnapped by rebels and
forced into brutality, Mwanza guides the audience through a
nightmare beyond most comprehension.  “War Witch” was reviewed at the Tribeca Film Festival.
Rating: ***  (Greg Evans is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include Jeremy Gerard on  Broadway 
and Ryan Sutton on  restaurants .  To contact the writer on the story:  Greg Evans  at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 