-- Rising Non-Performing Loans Will Hit Profit, Garanti Says
-- B y   S i b e l   A k b a y
-- 2012-04-25T13:49:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/rising-non-performing-loans-will-hit-profit-garanti-says-1-.html
Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS Chief
Executive Officer Ergun Ozen said rising non-performing loans
this year will hit profit.  Non-performing loans are increasing both for Garanti and
Turkish banks in general, and will exceed the provisioning this
year, Ozen said at a press conference today. Garanti’s non-
performing loan ratio was 1.9 percent in the first quarter and
the industry’s was 2.7 percent, he said. The increase in bad
loans has not yet been reflected in loans to small businesses,
which will “pull our profitability down,” he said.  “The amount of non-performing loans is rising due to
increasing unemployment and as people have payment
difficulties,” Ozen said. “Very clearly, we’ve begun to see
this in credit cards and personal loans.”  Garanti,  Turkey ’s biggest bank by market value, shares fell
1.5 percent to 6.62 liras at 3:51 p.m., after gaining as much as
1.5 percent to 6.80 liras.  First-quarter net income at Garanti rose to 861.7 million
liras ($484 million) from 855.2 million liras a year ago,
Garanti said in a statement to the  Istanbul Stock Exchange 
today. The bank, part-owned by  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria
SA (BBVA)  of  Spain , was expected to earn 822.1 million liras, according
to the average of 12 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Provisioning Expenses  “The decrease in provision expenses came as a positive
surprise in terms of asset quality,” Muge Dagistan, an analyst
at BGC Partners, said after results were announced. “General
provision expenses were almost zero,” though this was also
“due to limited loan growth,” she said.  Garanti maintains its 14 percent loan growth target for
this year despite a slower performance in the first quarter when
loan growth was flat, Ozen said in an interview in Istanbul
today.  For financing purposes, the bank will “stay away” from
the Eurobond market this year as it finds the market
“expensive,” Ozen said. “We can’t go to the securitized loan
market anymore. It is unfortunately dead,” he said.  Garanti plans to sell 1.5 billion liras of bonds in the
rest of this year and will complete an agreement to fully
refinance a $1 billion syndication loan by May 3, he said.  The bank will continue long-term borrowing from
institutions such as the  World Bank  this year to secure funding
for loans of longer maturities, he said.  Cost management at Turkish banks will be of “utmost
importance” this year as room for error “has greatly
diminished,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sibel Akbay in Istanbul at 
 sakbay@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Aydan Eksin at 
 aeksin@bloomberg.net  