-- Rising Stars Accelerate as Ford Freed From Junk
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g ,   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-04-25T15:48:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/rising-stars-accelerate-as-ford-freed-from-junk.html
The pace at which high-yield
borrowers in the U.S. are lifted to investment grade is
accelerating from the slowest start to a year since at least
1987 as  Fitch Ratings  elevates  Ford Motor Co. (F)   Standard & Poor’s  has upgraded five borrowers from
speculative grade since February, bringing the total of so-
called rising stars this year to six. Fitch cited improved
earnings, reduced pension costs and cash on hand as it raised
Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford to BBB- yesterday, the first time
since 2005 that the biggest high-yield issuer has been ranked
above junk by any of the three largest ratings firms.  The riskiest borrowers from Ford to  CIT Group Inc. (CIT) , the
small-business lender that exited bankruptcy two years ago, are
improving their creditworthiness as yields close to record lows
allow them to reduce expenses by refinancing debt. Corporate
balance sheets are  improving  with about 82 percent of the 125
companies in the  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  that have released earnings since
April 10 reporting profits that beat analyst forecasts.  “We’re seeing gradually improving  credit quality ” that
should lead to more upgrades, said Greg Kocik, a Toronto-based
money manager with the TD High Yield Bond Fund who oversees $1.6
billion. “People who take money out of a BB+ name like Ford
will put money into another company on the cusp of investment
grade. There should be some movement of that capital into other
upgrade candidates.”  Rising Stars  The world economy is set to expand 3.5 percent this year,
the Washington-based IMF said April 17 in its World Economic
Outlook, boosting its forecast from 3.3 percent in January.  “As the economy grows, we expect rising star potential to
slowly increase to an eventual peak at some point in the middle
of the current business cycle,”  Diane Vazza , an S&P analyst in
 New York , wrote in an April 13 note. The six rising stars this
year compares with a median of 13 in the same period over the
past five years, she said. S&P is monitoring the debt of 23
borrowers poised to be lifted from junk.  Elsewhere in credit markets, a benchmark gauge of U.S.
company credit risk fell for a second day, with the Markit CDX
North America Investment Grade Index, which investors use to
hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
declining 1.2 basis points to a mid-price of 98.5 basis points
as of 11:41 a.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  Rate Swap Spreads  The index typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
bond market stress, fell 1.6 basis points to 29 basis points as
of 11:42 a.m. in New York. The gauge narrows when investors
favor assets such as corporate bonds and widens when they seek
the perceived safety of  government securities .  Bonds of  General Electric Co. (GE)  are the most actively traded
U.S. corporate securities by dealers today, with 141 trades of
$1 million or more as of 11:40 a.m. in New York, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. The Fairfield, Connecticut-based company’s
financing arm, GE Capital Corp., sold $3.1 billion of bonds
yesterday and plans to offer $700 million of debt today.  The riskiest borrowers are benefiting from refinancing or
issuing new debt at yields that this year are averaging 7.82
percent on the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield
Master II index. Yields reached a record low 7.19 percent on May
19, 2011, after declining from 22.65 percent at the height of
the credit crisis in December 2008.  Fallen Angels  The five borrowers that S&P has upgraded from junk since
February are BRF-Brasil Foods SA, the sovereign debt of Uruguay,
LyondellBasell Industries NV, Regions Financial Corp. and Mohawk
Industries Inc. Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. was the
only speculative-grade company to get boosted to investment
grade this year, according to S&P research as of March 14, the
slowest start to a year since at least 1987.  The number of global fallen angels for 2012, or companies
that declined to junk from investment grade, was 11 as of April
9, five less than the total for the same period of 2011, S&P
said on April 13.  High-yield bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and lower than BBB- at S&P.  Ford Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  has sought to
restore the automaker’s  investment-grade  rating to reduce
borrowing costs and attempt to recover major assets put up for
collateral as the company borrowed $23.4 billion in late 2006 to
avoid the bailouts and bankruptcies that befell the predecessors
of  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC.  Ford ended 2011 with its  11th consecutive  profitable
quarter and earned $29.5 billion in the last three years after
$30.1 billion in losses from 2006 through 2008.  Gas Prices  “The upgrade of Ford’s ratings reflects the automaker’s
significantly improved financial performance, balance sheet
repair, and product portfolio improvement that have taken place
over the past several years,” according to the report from
Fitch analysts led by  Stephen Brown  and Mohak Rao.  Risks to Ford include the strength of the global economic
recovery and demand for automobiles, while in the U.S. high
unemployment and gasoline prices could be a drag on growth,
Fitch said.  S&P and Moody’s will likely follow Fitch in upgrading Ford,
Barclays Plc strategists Vincent Foley and Cedric Morris in New
York said in a research note yesterday.  “Mid-2012 is a realistic timeframe for Ford to achieve
investment grade ratings at all three rating agencies,” Foley
and Morris wrote.  That would make the automaker the biggest rising star in
history, Barclays analysts led by Bradley Rogoff in New York
wrote in February.  Europe Worries  New York-based CIT sold $1.5 billion of senior unsecured
six-year notes last month after the small-business lender led by
 John Thain  redeemed $4 billion of debt tied to its exit from
bankruptcy in December 2009 and S&P  boosted  its  credit rating  to
BB- from B+.  Investor anxiety is rising this month with S&P’s so-called
distress ratio climbing to 12.4 percent from 10.8 percent in
March amid concern that  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis is
reigniting, the ratings company said. The ratio is a measure of
the number of distressed securities divided by the total number
of speculative-grade issues.  In the U.S., while gross domestic product grew at a 3
percent pace in the last three months of 2011, it will slow to
2.3 percent this year, according to the median estimate of 74
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Projections for GDP growth
this year are slower than the 3.1 percent posted in 2005 and 2.7
percent in 2006 before the recession and financial crisis.  Economic Support  “Investors are optimistic about a U.S. turnaround but they
are still very worried about what’s going on in Europe,” said
Marc Gross, a  money manager  at RS Investments in New York who
oversees $3 billion in fixed-income funds. Budget cuts across
the continent and slower Chinese growth are among the global
economic concerns, he said.  “The general trend is that  corporate earnings  have been
solid and leverage has been managed, so we should be in more of
an upgrade cycle in the U.S.,” Gross said.  Moody’s tallied eight rising stars in March versus four
fallen angels, the ratings firm said April 9.  “We are at a point in the cycle where companies have had
time to grow and repair balance sheets to improve credit
quality,” Susanna Gibbons, a portfolio manager at RBC Global
Asset Management, which oversees more than $250 billion in
assets, said in a telephone interview. “You will probably see a
trend in rising stars just because of continued support from the
economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  