-- Rubio Echoes Obama More Than Romney on Foreign Policy
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-04-26T04:01:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/rubio-echoes-obama-more-than-romney-on-foreign-policy.html
Senator Marco Rubio of  Florida , a
potential Republican vice presidential pick, outlined a vision
of foreign policy that sounded more like President Barack Obama’s than that of  Mitt Romney , the presumptive Republican
nominee.  Rubio, 40, a first-term senator whose popularity with Tea
Party supporters and Hispanics has raised his political profile,
used a speech yesterday in Washington to praise international
alliances and bipartisanship in foreign policy. His message --
that global coalitions are critical and American leadership is
essential -- echoed talking points delivered almost weekly by
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton .  Rubio argued for an activist foreign policy that puts a
priority on keeping the peace, promoting democracy and trade and
investing in foreign aid and global health -- all points that
are gospel to the Obama administration. He reserved his
criticism for a mild rebuke that also has come from some
Democratic lawmakers: that Obama should be more forceful leading
coalitions he has built to address problems such as Syrian
leader Bashar al-Assad’s violent crackdown on his opponents.  “Global problems do require international coalitions; on
that point this administration is correct,” Rubio told foreign
policy makers and reporters at the  Brookings Institution , a
Washington policy research organization. “But experience has
proven that American leadership is almost always
indispensable.”  No Cuba Mention  Rubio, whose family and many of whose Florida supporters
hail from Cuba, didn’t once mention U.S. policy toward the
communist island, although it’s one of the most contentious
foreign affairs issues in his home state.  His remarks underscore the difficulty the  Republican Party 
may face this year trying to sharpen its differences with Obama
over national security. The president has won credit in polls
for killing  Osama bin Laden  in Pakistan, helping oust  Muammar Qaddafi  from Libya, withdrawing U.S. troops from Iraq and
setting a timetable to draw down American forces in Afghanistan.  Obama fared better than Romney on foreign policy in an
April 11-17 Quinnipiac University national  survey , preferred by
46 percent compared with 40 percent for Romney.  ‘Sober’ Speech  Rubio’s “main message was, ‘Hi, I’m not Sarah Palin,’”
said Brian Katulis, a foreign policy analyst at the Center for
American Progress, a research group in  Washington  associated
with the Obama administration. “The speech was sober. It was
knowledgeable.”  “Rubio seemed to be closer to the Obama administration’s
actual foreign policy than to the Republican Party’s rhetoric,”
Katulis said. “This speech surprised a lot of people in its
tone.”  Robert Kagan, a Brookings scholar who attended the speech,
said Rubio “was trying to shore up a broad bipartisan consensus
that the U.S. needs to remain engaged in the world. I think the
Obama administration, after some initial hesitation, shares this
view.”  Kagan, a foreign-policy adviser to the Romney campaign and
a member of Secretary Clinton’s foreign affairs policy board,
said Rubio made clear that “the administration has not done
what is necessary to lead a coalition to remove Assad. But this
difference occurs within the broad consensus.”  War Fatigue  The main Republican attacks on Obama in this campaign won’t
be about  foreign policy ,  Stuart Rothenberg , editor of the
nonpartisan Rothenberg Political Report in Washington, said in
an interview.  “There is no appetite for picking a fight in that area
right now” because of the American public’s fatigue over the
military involvements in Iraq and Afghanistan, Rothenberg said.  Most Republican office-seekers this year, Romney included,
are devoting the bulk of their time and energy to criticizing
Obama on jobs, the economy, the size of government and spending.  “Domestic issues are where they think the president is
weakest,” Rothenberg said.  Romney, in his first foreign policy speeches of the
campaign last October in  South Carolina , attacked Obama and
advocated a more military-centered foreign policy than Rubio
laid out yesterday. Romney pledged to add 100,000 active-duty
troops, boost naval shipbuilding, deploy Navy carriers to deter
 Iran , boost intelligence cooperation with  Israel  and review aid
to Afghanistan.  ‘Weakens Our Hand’  Rubio, by contrast, said he believes in keeping “foreign
policy nonpartisan as much as possible. I think it weakens our
hand” to show divisions when dealing with foreign adversaries.  Asked after his speech where the “daylight” was between
his policy and Obama’s, Rubio said the administration has shown
“an over-reliance” on global institutions, such as the  United
Nations Security Council , to solve crises in  Libya  and Syria.  After an initial push on NATO to take action to oust
Qaddafi in Libya, Rubio said, Obama “backed off and allowed our
allies to do most of the work.” If the president had “more
energetically” led the NATO coalition, he said, “the
engagement would’ve been shorter, cheaper” and may have had
fewer side-effects, such as the rise of militias, the
destruction of infrastructure and the death of many Libyans in
the conflict.  “Ultimately, it worked out fine,” said Rubio, who sits on
the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and the Select Committee
on Intelligence. He said he was struck during a visit to Libya a
month after Qaddafi’s death by the amount of pro-U.S. graffiti
and the number of Libyans who approached his delegation to say,
“Thank you, President Obama, thank you,  United States .”  On ending the bloodshed in Syria, Rubio said the scores of
nations that united as the so-called Friends of Syria coalition
need “a center of gravity” that only the U.S. can provide.  Safe Haven  Rubio advocated “forming and leading a coalition with
Turkey and the Arab League nations to assist the opposition, by
creating a safe haven and equipping the opposition with food,
medicine, communications tools and potentially weapons,” a step
the administration has been reluctant to take.  Yet in the question-and-answer portion, Rubio expressed
concern that “weapons don’t fall into the wrong hands,” and
said nations other than the U.S. “may be willing to step into
the void.”  Regarding concerns that Iran is seeking a nuclear-weapons
capability, Rubio said he supports a “dual-track” strategy for
sanctions and talks, while “preparing our allies” for the
possibility that, “if all else fails, preventing a nuclear Iran
may tragically require a military solution.”  “No option should be off the table” on Iran, and “the
president has said as much,” Rubio said.  Rubio said when he came to the Senate last year, he found
“liberal Democrats and conservative Republicans working
together to advocate our withdrawal from  Afghanistan , or our
staying out of Libya.”  At the same time, he wound up “partnering with Democrats”
such as Senators Bob Menendez of  New Jersey  or  Bob Casey  of
 Pennsylvania  “on a more forceful foreign policy,” he said.  In the Senate, “on foreign policy, if you go far enough to
the right, you wind up on the left,” he joked.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  