-- Trump Says Scots Leaders Gave ‘Assurances’ for No Turbines
-- B y   T i m   F a r r a n d   a n d   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2012-04-25T13:08:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/trump-says-scots-leaders-gave-assurances-for-no-wind-turbines.html
Donald Trump , the New York real-
estate entrepreneur, said the Scottish government enticed him
into investing in a golf resort by suggesting that an offshore
wind farm he opposes was unlikely to go ahead.  Trump told lawmakers in Edinburgh today that he received
“assurances” from First Minister  Alex Salmond  and his
predecessor, Jack McConnell, over the turbine development. The
government “lured” him into investing “tens of millions of
pounds” on the site at Balmedie, north of Aberdeen, and “led
him to believe” the farm would not proceed because of
objections from the Ministry of Defence and shipping lane
issues, Trump said.  Trump was giving evidence to a Scottish parliamentary
committee today. He is trying to derail a proposed 230 million-
pound ($370 million) experimental wind farm in sight of a golf
course he plans to open in July.  Salmond aims to make Scotland the hub of European wind
power as part of a strategy to generate the equivalent of all of
the country’s electricity from renewable sources by 2020. He
said in an interview last week that  energy policy  should be
decided by elected politicians rather than Trump.  “Frankly I don’t think 11 turbines offshore is a difficult
proposition for most people to accept,” Salmond said on April
18 at his official residence in Edinburgh. At no point did
Salmond’s administration give any assurances to Trump or his
organization and claims to the contrary are wrong, the first
minister’s office said in an e-mailed statement today.  No Wind Farms  Trump told a press conference after the hearing that “I
never like to use the word lie. But certainly they told me there
would be no wind farms near my property.”  Trump said he had witnesses to conversations he held with
McConnell and Salmond. Salmond and Trump discussed wind farms
among other subjects at a dinner in a New York restaurant on
October 2007, he said. The next month the Scottish government
said it would decide whether Trump could proceed with his
proposed resort after it was blocked by Aberdeenshire Council,
the local municipality.  “I have absolutely no problem with Alex Salmond,” Trump
said. “I like him but I think he is misguided.”  The  European Offshore Wind Deployment Centre , a venture
between Vattenfall AB,  Technip SA (TEC)  and Aberdeen Renewable Energy
Group, applied in August for planning consent to build 11 next-
generation offshore wind turbines in Aberdeen Bay. The turbines
are 195 meters (640 feet) high to the tip of the blade and will
be 2.4 kilometers (1.5 miles) out at sea, according to David
Rodger, a spokesman for the venture.  The 65-year-old Trump identified his site as a potential
750 million-pound golf resort in 2005 and battled for almost
three years to gain consent to build two courses, a 450-bed
five-star hotel, 500 homes and 950 short-term rental apartments.  Hotel, Housing  Trump said today he would proceed “immediately’” with the
hotel and the housing if Vattenfall dropped the project. He
would never have built the golf course had he thought there was
any realistic prospect of the wind farm going ahead, Trump told
the committee. When it was first mentioned, the wind farm was
going to be 10 miles offshore, he said.  Scotland  would “go broke” if the U.K. decided to stop
paying the subsidies for wind power, Trump said.  The wind farm partners are “disappointed by the
disproportionate campaign” against the wind farm and Scotland’s
wind energy industry, they said in an e-mailed statement today.  Failure to go ahead would put at risk the ambitions of
Scotland, the U.K. and  Europe  for low-cost energy from offshore
wind, the statement said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Farrand in Edinburgh at 
 tfarrand@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  