-- Murdoch Tells Inquiry He Didn’t Seek Favors From Prime Ministers
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-04-25T23:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/rupert-murdoch-tells-inquiry-abuses-went-beyond-phone-hacking.html
Rupert Murdoch  told a media-ethics
inquiry triggered by News Corp.’s phone-hacking scandal in
Britain that he never sought favors from any prime minister to
bolster the company’s commercial interests.  News Corp. doesn’t consider business needs when deciding
which politicians to back in its newspapers, Murdoch said under
oath in London yesterday. The 81-year-old chairman spoke as the
company’s closeness to U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
Cabinet led to the resignation of  Adam Smith , an adviser to
Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt .  “I’ve never asked a prime minister for anything,” Murdoch
said after questions about his New York-based company’s
political ties going back 30 years. “I took a particularly
strong pride in the fact we’ve never pushed our commercial
interests in our papers.”  Murdoch’s son, News Corp. Deputy Chief Operating Officer
 James Murdoch , gave the inquiry details Aug. 24 on the company’s
interaction with lawmakers as it sought to buy the 61 percent of
 British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  it didn’t already own. Hunt,
the minister who had to rule on the  deal, faced calls in
Parliament yesterday to resign after e-mails released at the
hearing showed leaks to News Corp. during his deliberations.  BSkyB Timing  The elder Murdoch said it was a coincidence News Corp.
revealed its plan to take over BSkyB, the U.K.’s biggest pay-
television provider, a month after Cameron was elected in May
2010.  “I don’t think we gave any thought to the timing of it
except that it would be good to talk to all the directors when
they were together,” said Murdoch, who will appear for a second
day of questioning today.  News Corp. abandoned the 7.8 billion-pound ($12.6 billion)
bid at the peak of the phone-hacking scandal last year.  Shares (NWSA)  of News Corp. rose 4 cents to $19.27 in New York
trading yesterday.  Murdoch showed skill as a “crafty silver fox” in the way
his answers avoided any damage, said  Duncan Lamont , a lawyer at
Charles Russell LLP who represents some of News Corp.’s
broadcast competitors.  Robert Jay, the inquiry’s lawyer who questioned Murdoch,
stopped the hearing early yesterday “and will have saved some
good stuff for today -- he is crafty too,” Lamont said.  Downing Street Tea  Cameron invited Murdoch to his 10 Downing Street residence
in London for tea after the 2010 election, to thank him for the
support of his newspapers, Murdoch said. He told the new prime
minister his titles would “watch carefully” to make sure he
kept his campaign promises, and didn’t discuss BSkyB, he said.  Murdoch and Cameron met repeatedly after the politician
became leader of the opposition  Conservative Party  in 2005,
including a 2008 trip where Cameron flew on a Murdoch family
member’s jet to meet the Murdochs on a yacht in the
Mediterranean, the executive said.  “Politicians go out of their way to impress people in the
press, and I don’t remember discussing any heavy political
things with him at all,” Murdoch said. “There may have been
some issues discussed passingly. It was not a long meeting.”  Smith, Hunt’s special adviser, stepped down yesterday,
saying he had “gone too far” in his contacts with News Corp.
Hunt told lawmakers that while he had authorized contact, “I
didn’t know the volume of those communications or the tone of
those communications.”  Cameron told lawmakers that Hunt has his “full support”
and should be allowed to stay in his post while the inquiry
continues.  Politicians Not Told  “Rupert Murdoch kept stressing that it is a myth that he
ever wanted favors from the politicians in return for supporting
them,”  Mark Lewis , a lawyer for victims of phone hacking, said
after the testimony. “It’s a shame that no one ever told the
politicians.”  The inquiry, led by Judge Brian Leveson, began last year
after evidence emerged that phone hacking at the company’s News
of the World tabloid was rampant and police opened probes into
bribery and computer hacking by journalists at News Corp.’s
other U.K. titles. About 45 people have been arrested, including
former News Corp. journalists, and the company closed the News
of the World in July in response to public outrage over the
scandal.  Political Influence  The review is shedding light on the extent of News Corp.’s
political influence since Murdoch started buying British
newspapers in 1969. Some phone-hacking victims told the inquiry
News Corp.’s U.K. unit was able to cover up the scandal for
years due to its links to lawmakers and police.  The comments are Murdoch’s first public testimony since he
appeared at a parliamentary committee probing the scandal in
July, a day he called the “most humble” of his life. Murdoch
said abuses in the U.K. media went beyond voice-mail
interceptions by journalists at the News of the World.  Since July, News Corp.’s internal committee probing phone
hacking and bribery has “actively cooperated” with  London ’s
Metropolitan Police and the  U.S. Department of Justice , turning
over evidence of possible illegal activity, Murdoch said
yesterday in a  statement  to the committee.  1981 Lunch  Murdoch also said he never sought to curry favor with
politicians when asked about a 1981 lunch with former Prime
Minister  Margaret Thatcher , when he was buying the Times, or
during  Tony Blair ’s decade in office.  “In the 10 years he was in power, I never asked Mr. Blair
for anything, nor indeed did I receive any favors,” Murdoch
said.  “I try very hard to set an example for ethical
behavior.”  James Murdoch said April 24 that he discussed the BSkyB bid
with Cameron at a private Christmas dinner in 2010. The “tiny
side conversation” took place two days after Cameron had
removed responsibility for deciding whether to allow the
takeover from Business Secretary  Vince Cable , Murdoch said.
Cable had been recorded by undercover journalists saying he had
“declared war” on the Murdoch family.  In July, Cameron said “the clock has stopped” on
Murdoch’s influence over British politics. He made the comment
the same month that ex-News of the World editor  Andy Coulson ,
who resigned in 2007, was arrested in the phone-hacking probe.
Coulson was Cameron’s press chief until January 2011, when he
quit as a result of the scandal.  Regulator Ofcom is examining whether News Corp. is “fit
and proper” to own its 39 percent stake in BSkyB. The watchdog
opened a separate probe into BSkyB’s Sky News channel this week
to investigate e-mail hacking by a reporter.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  