-- Truworths Chief Favors Using Cash Hoard for Expansion
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-04-26T15:36:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/truworths-chief-favors-using-cash-hoard-for-expansion.html
Truworths International Ltd. (TRU)  Chief
Executive Officer Michael Mark said he would rather use the
South African clothing retailer’s record-high cash hoard to
boost credit sales and acquisitions than pay a special dividend.  The retailer’s cash balance has swelled more than eightfold
over the past five fiscal years to 1.8 billion rand ($231
million), along with a doubling of  sales  and an average 24
percent annual increase in dividends. Since 2002, Cape Town-
based Truworths spent 1.7 billion rand buying back shares.  “I wish I could use it internally first and that’s mainly
on the debtors’ book,” Mark said in an interview. “My second
preference is on expanding the business. My third is a great
acquisition. My fourth is neutral between increasing dividend
flow and a steady share buy-back or a combination. My least
appealing option, personally, is a special dividend.”  Truworths, which competes against Bain Capital LLC’s Edcon
Holdings (Pty) Ltd.,  Foschini Group Ltd. (TFG) ,  Woolworths Holdings
Ltd. (WHL)  and  Mr Price Group Ltd. (MPC) , operates 552 stores, 21 of them in
African countries outside its home market. More than 70 percent
of sales are derived from the retailer’s 2.4 million account
holders, which have to be financed.  ‘Good Investment’  “Truworths could increase their dividends, but their
return on equity has been pretty good,” said Gabriel Sacks, an
assistant  fund manager  at  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc (ADN)  in
 London , which oversees about 20 percent of Truworths stock.
“They have been a very good investment. We do like our
companies to have robust balance sheets so we wouldn’t want to
see them moving to a highly geared” position.  Truworths has a  return on equity  of about 39 percent
compared with about 27 percent at Cape Town-based Foschini and a
global median for specialty apparel stores of 20 percent,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. The stock has more than
doubled over the past five years compared with an increase of
about 72 percent in Foschini over the same period.  The shares  rose  0.4 percent to 83 rand in Johannesburg,
giving the company a market value of 38.2 billion rand.  All options to utilize excess cash, including paying a
special dividend, remain under consideration, and there is
plenty of scope for share buy-backs without reducing the
tradability of the company’s stock, Mark said in the April 24
interview in  Cape Town .  ‘Not Our Money’  “I am very, very aware that it’s not our money,” he said.
The pressure to use the company’s cash is “contained because
our return on equity is still well above the norm and above the
industry average.”  Truworths last made an acquisition in 2006, when it bought
a controlling stake in South African fashion retailer Uzzi for
an undisclosed amount. While it has looked at buying a number of
other businesses since then, the owners demanded a higher price
than Truworths was willing to pay, Mark said.  “I don’t want us to be known as these guys who are always
looking and never buying,” he said. “I’m hoping we will be
more successful over the next 12 to 18 months. I think lately we
have found a methodology and a formula” to value acquisitions
that will satisfy Truworths and the sellers.  Plans by  Spain ’s  Inditex SA (ITX) , the world’s largest clothing
retailer, to roll out its Zara chain in South  Africa  don’t pose
a major threat, he said.  Low Down on List  “Quite low down on my list of concerns would be the
foreign entrants, because they are small, they have got their
own learning curves they have got to go through,” he said.
“Their brands are not well known.”  Truworths is expanding its presence in Africa, opening
stores in  Nigeria , Ghana,  Kenya  and Zambia and acquiring its
franchise outlets in Botswana. It has also entered into a
franchise agreement in Angola. Truworths is not considering
making acquisitions in other African countries, Mark said.  “We are quite encouraged by their more active role in
Africa,” Aberdeen’s Sacks said in a phone interview. “It’s a
better use of cash to expand than to have it sitting on the
balance sheet.”  Establishing a sizable presence in Africa will take time
and  South Africa  will remain Truworths’ main focus for some
time, Mark said.  “Ten or 15 years into the future, which I have to admit is
going to be past my time, Truworths has got to be, and will be,
an African chain,” Mark said. “We will have to make lots of
changes and adjust.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  