-- Ryanair Hikes Fares for Chelsea Fans’ Trip to Soccer Final
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   S t e v e n   R o t h w e l l
-- 2012-04-25T16:01:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/ryanair-raises-prices-for-chelsea-fans-trip-to-soccer-final.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc,  Europe ’s
biggest discount carrier, is charging 10 times its normal price
for flights from  London  to Munich as Chelsea fans prepare to
travel to next month’s  Champions League  soccer final in Germany.  Chelsea tied defending champion Barcelona 2-2 yesterday to
complete a 3-2 victory in the two-match semifinal and qualify
for the May 19 final against Bayern Munich or Real Madrid.  Dublin-based Ryanair said it’s scheduled extra flights from
London’s Stansted Airport departing on the morning of the final
and returning the next day at a starting price of 467 pounds
($753). Round-trip flights for the weekend before come in at
32.98 pounds, according to a search of the company’s website.  “Absolutely not,” Stephen McNamara, a spokesman for
Ryanair, said when asked if his company was profiteering. He
said rivals would be charging more. “Ryanair guarantees the
lowest fares, every day. I’d imagine this will sell out.”  Though Ryanair says its flights go to Munich, the airport
passengers arrive at is in Memmingen, a town about 110
kilometers (68 miles) west of the city.  British Airways is offering a trip that leaves a day before
the game and returns on May 21 for 655 pounds. Easyjet is
charging about 800 pounds.  If  Bayern Munich  qualifies for the final in its home
stadium, local fans going to the game can pay a little as little
as 5.60 euros ($7.40) for a day pass on the city’s public
transport system.  Ryanair, which is known for tongue-in-cheek advertising
campaigns, said the flights were put on to “ensure Chelsea fans
can get to the final - even if captain  John Terry  won’t.” Terry
was sent off in the first half of last night’s game and is
suspended for the final.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Rothwell in London at 
2365 or  srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 