-- TSA Screeners at L.A. Airport Charged With Taking Bribes
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-04-25T21:29:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/tsa-screeners-at-l-a-airport-charged-with-taking-bribes-1-.html
Two former and two current
Transportation Security Administration screeners at Los Angeles
International Airport were charged with taking bribes to allow
drug shipments to pass through security checkpoints.  The four are charged with taking as much as $2,400 to look
the other way as suitcases filled with drugs, including cocaine,
marijuana and methamphetamine, went through the X-ray machines
at the airport’s security checkpoints, U.S. Attorney Andre Birotte Jr. in Los Angeles said today in a statement. Three
alleged drug carriers were also charged.  “Airport screeners act as a vital checkpoint for  homeland
security , and air travelers should believe in the fundamental
integrity of security systems at our nation’s airports,”
Birotte said. “The allegations in this case describe a
significant breakdown of the screening system through the
conduct of individuals who placed greed above the nation’s
security needs.”  The charges relate to five separate incidents last year,
one of which involved a shipment of 20 kilograms of cocaine. One
of the couriers didn’t follow instructions in one attempt and
went to the wrong security checkpoint where his bag with five
kilograms of cocaine was seized.  The Drug Enforcement Agency used a confidential source to
bribe two of the screeners to let eight pounds of
methamphetamine pass through security, according to prosecutors.
The four screeners are charged with narcotics conspiracy and
could face life in prison if convicted.  ‘Cooperated Fully’  “TSA has cooperated fully with the investigation and will
continue to do so,” Nico Melendez, an agency spokesman, said in
an e-mailed statement. “The employees involved are no longer
performing screening duties.”  The former TSA screeners are Naral Richardson, 30, of  Los
Angeles , who is accused of orchestrating the five incidents and
who was terminated by the TSA in 2010, and Joy White, 27, of
Compton, who was terminated last year.  The current TSA employees are John Whitfield, 23, and
Capeline McKinney, 25, both of Los Angeles.  The alleged drug couriers are Duane Eleby, 28, of Downey,
whose drugs were seized when he went though the wrong
checkpoint, and Terry Cunningham, 28, and Stephen Bayliss, 28,
both of Los Angeles. Cunningham is being sought by authorities
and Bayliss is in state prison, according to the U.S. attorney’s
statement.  Curt Leftwich, a lawyer for Whitfield, and Ellen Barry, a
lawyer for McKinney, didn’t immediately return calls seeking
comment on the allegations. The names of the lawyers for the
other defendants weren’t available from court records.  The case is U.S. v. Richardson, 12-00159, U.S. District
Court, Central District of  California  (Los Angeles.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 