-- SAP Sees ‘Very Solid Pipeline’ as Quarterly Profit Rises
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-04-25T08:13:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/sap-first-quarter-net-income-rises-10-on-asia-mobile-software.html
SAP AG (SAP) , the biggest maker of
business management software, said a “very solid pipeline” of
new deals will help meet growth targets as demand picks up for
mobile programs and software to process large amounts of data.  First-quarter net income jumped 10 percent from a year
earlier to 444 million euros ($587 million) helped by record
sales in  Asia , the Walldorf, Germany-based  company  said today.
Analysts had estimated profit of 476 million euros in a
Bloomberg survey.  New business fields, including software as a service run
via external datacenters, rather than installed on customers’
premises, “drive a high interest from our customers, combined
with our core products,” co-Chief Executive Officer Jim Hagemann Snabe said in an interview on Bloomberg Television.
“In the first quarter, we saw an increase in the win ratio
against competition, and that’s why, if we combine these
factors, we see a strong opportunity for growth.”  SAP, which competes with  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ,  said this month
that sales growth will rise in the second quarter after a sales
strategy that grouped clients by geography in  North America  and
initially weak business in some European countries trimmed new
software sales at the start of the year. SAP is betting on
revenue from mobile applications, on-demand software and the
real-time processing platform Hana to lift revenue to more than
20 billion euros by 2015.  SAP shares  declined  0.7 percent to 48.94 euros at 10:12
a.m. in  Frankfurt , paring the gain this year to 20 percent and
giving the company a market value of 60.1 billion euros.  Hana Revenue  In the three months ended March 31, the company won
customers for Hana including  India ’s  United Breweries Ltd. (UBBL) ,
posting sales of 28 million euros. Revenue from new mobile-
software licenses totalled 21 million euros in the quarter.
Revenue from new software licenses rose 16 percent in Asia at
constant currencies, beating growth in any other region. SAP
pre-released revenue and operating profit on April 13.  In the  current quarter , revenue from software and software-
related services will increase 14 percent to 16 percent, based
on non-IFRS accounting standards and at constant currencies,
after a 10 percent gain last quarter, SAP reiterated today.
Software revenue is set to grow by 15 percent to 20 percent,
also excluding currency swings, following an increase of just 1
percent.  “They have to get back on track with new software licenses
in coming quarters,” said Heinz Steffen, an analyst at
Fairesearch in Kronberg,  Germany , who recommends investors buy
SAP shares. “In the short term, the results were a bit
disappointing, but in the longer term SAP is very well-
positioned, especially with mobile and Hana.”  SAP’s co-CEOs have acquired mobile-software and database
company Sybase Inc. as well as cloud-computing specialist
SuccessFactors Inc. since taking over in 2010.  Sales and support revenue from cloud-computing, or software
sold as an on-demand service, rose to 29 million euros in the
quarter, boosted by the SuccessFactors deal and new contracts
with clients including  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO)  and Ceva Logistics Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  