-- Saudi Clerics Out-Tweet Liberals Forcing King to Balance
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-04-26T09:36:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/saudi-clerics-out-tweet-liberals-forcing-king-to-balance.html
The Saudis making the biggest
splash on social media aren’t the youthful, secular activists
who led protest movements elsewhere in the Arab world last year.
They’re religious scholars like Salman al-Oadah.  Saudi Arabia  jailed al-Oadah in the 1990s, when he was
advocating the kind of Islamic militancy espoused by al-Qaeda.
Now, after renouncing extremism, he has more than 1 million
followers on  Twitter , as does Muslim scholar Ayed al-Qarnee. A
third preacher, Mohammed al-Arefe, tops the national rankings
with 1.4 million readers, more than the population of Bahrain.
By contrast, one of the highest-profile campaigners against the
religiously motivated ban on women drivers, Manal al-Sharif, has
about 80,000 followers.  Their influence limits King Abdullah’s ability to introduce
further liberalizing measures designed to prevent ferment
elsewhere in the  Middle East  spreading to the world’s biggest
oil exporter. The king has pledged social and economic steps to
reduce the swelling ranks of unemployed young Saudis and ensure
they don’t join their peers in Tunisia or  Egypt  by seeking to
topple the government. Even so, change must be acceptable to a
clergy with the capacity to shape public opinion.  “To get an impression about how people are really feeling,
look at the social networks,”  Robert Lacey , British author of
“Inside the Kingdom,” a 2009 history of Saudi Arabia, said.
“There are reformers calling for Western-style democracy and
human rights -- the sort of liberals that give quotes to
visiting journalists -- but they don’t get much local response.  Driving Ban  ‘‘The top three tweeters in the whole of the peninsula are
all conservative religious sheikhs,’’ he said.  Under a pact between the al-Saud family and Sheikh Mohammed
Ibn Abdul Wahhab dating  to 1744 , Saudi Arabia adopted and
promoted the austere Wahhabi interpretation of Islam, according
to a Saudi government  website . Conservatism permeates the
country, where women are banned from driving, men and women can
only mix socially under strict monitoring, and shops close
during prayer times.  Some clerics have been critical of the royal family in the
past, accusing it of corruption and attacking its alliance with
the U.S. Al-Oadah was jailed for his role in the opposition
religious movement of the 1990s known as Sahwa, or Awakening. At
the time, he advocated a purge of liberals from positions in
government, schools and media to make society more Islamic,
according to ‘‘The Wahhabi Mission and Saudi Arabia’’ by David
Commins.  Religious Police  While al-Oadah is socially traditionalist on many issues,
he doesn’t advocate the extreme positions of some other Sunni
clerics. When the king appointed Sheikh Abdul Latif al-Asheikh,
a more liberal candidate, in January as the head of the
religious police,  Sheikh Abdul Rahman al-Barrak , a prominent
Wahhabi cleric, criticized the move as a Western plot against
Islamic values and in support of gender mixing. He has also
called for supporters of mixing to be killed.  Sheikh Nasser al-Omar , with 180,000 readers on Twitter, in
February called for Saudi writer Hamza Kashgari’s execution for
his postings on the Prophet Mohammed. Kashgari is in a  Riyadh 
jail awaiting trial.  Al-Oadah, 55, says he turned to Twitter and  Facebook  after
the government last year banned him from leaving the country
because they felt his support for Arab revolts meant ‘‘I was
representing revolution,” he said. The cleric says he’s
sensitive in using social networking sites. “I don’t only
lecture young people,” he said. “I stop and listen.”  ‘Credible and Popular’  Al-Oudah isn’t aggressive or extreme compared with his
Saudi peers, said Bander Alnogaithan, a Riyadh-based lawyer who
follows the sheikh on Twitter. “He is credible and popular
among all types of people.” Al-Oadah is against women working
alongside men and participating in public activities, such as
sporting events.  Even more popular is al-Arefe, a conservative whose website
offers video-clips of his sermons and a text-message service
outlining religious duties. His Twitter postings address
religious and social issues, including female employment.  “Employing a man is beneficial to him, his wife, his kids,
his sisters and so on,” he wrote this month. “Employing a
woman is beneficial to only her (usually). Then why is the race
to hire her and deprive men from jobs? There are intentions
behind this matter!”  $130 Billion Spree  Abdullah responded to the regional turmoil last year with a
$130 billion spending spree. The main aim was  job creation  - a
critical consideration in a country where more than a quarter of
people in their 20s are unemployed. Extra cash was also
channeled to the religious organizations, after they backed a
ban on public demonstrations.  Liberalizing social measures have included last month’s
decision by the governor of Riyadh allowing young men to enter
shopping malls during peak hours rather than just on weekday
lunch hours. Rules on gender mixing in mall workforces were also
changed since Abdullah became king in 2005 so that women could
work in lingerie and cosmetic outlets. That’s aimed at cutting
an unemployment rate of more than 50 percent among women in
their 20s.  Abdullah, who’s 88 this year, opened the first  co-ed
university  in 2009 and for the first time in the kingdom’s
history gave women last year the right to vote in future
municipal elections. They can also join his advisory council.  Eastern Clashes  The kingdom has mostly escaped unrest sweeping the Arab
world, though there have been clashes between security forces
and protesters in the east where the oil industry is
concentrated and where the Shiite Muslim minority mostly lives.  The surface calm may be misleading, said al-Oadah in his
Riyadh office as he sat surrounded by piles of Islamic texts.  “The Arab Spring did affect Saudi Arabia,” said the
Muslim scholar, who served Arabic coffee and dates, according to
Saudi custom. “Before it was taboo to ever talk about things.
Now, young people are expressing their opinions vividly, and
they don’t really care about the consequences. To have someone
come and just preach to them isn’t acceptable anymore.”  The Muslim scholars are joined on social media by Saudi
princes, government officials and political activists, all using
the 140-character messaging space allowed by Twitter to contest
the country’s future. Osama Nugali, the foreign ministry’s
spokesman, is a regular poster. Prince Talal, a liberal from
 King Abdullah ’s generation of the ruling family, has 288,000
followers.  Twitter Investor  His son, Prince Alwaleed bin Talal, actually owns part of
Twitter Inc., after buying an undisclosed stake in December for
$300 million. Alwaleed is the world’s 24th-richest man with a
$20.5 billion fortune, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Among the most controversial figures on Saudi social media
is Mujtahidd, who has attracted more than 300,000 followers with
posts about the alleged misdeeds of royal family members, and
housing and stock market corruption. The anonymous blogger said
in response to e-mailed questions that the aim was to expose
“those who are corrupt” and said, “I have the information and
I am capable of using it in an effective manner.”  The growing domination of Saudi social networking sites by
religious conservatives pushing a traditionalist agenda, and
individuals criticizing the government, has sparked comment from
those clerics most sympathetic to the crown.  ‘Abusive Remarks’  Saudi Arabia’s Grand Mufti Sheikh Abdulaziz al-Sheik spoke
out last month against the use of social-networking sites for
political criticism. The government is “constantly under attack
from people who post insulting and abusive remarks,” he said.  “The mufti? No one follows him,” Waleed Abu al-Khair, a
human rights activist who is also barred from leaving the
kingdom, said in a phone interview. Al-Oadah, he said, is “the
most revolutionary cleric in Saudi Arabia.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  