-- Sun Co-Founder Scott McNealy Set to Testify at Oracle IP Trial
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-04-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/scott-mcnealy-sun-co-founder-to-testify-at-oracle-ip-trial-1-.html
Sun Microsystems Inc. co-founder
Scott McNealy will be called by  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  today as a witness
in a trial over claims that Google Inc. infringed intellectual
property to develop Android software.  Fred Norton, an Oracle attorney, told U.S. District Judge
William Alsup in  San Francisco  yesterday that McNealy will
testify for the database maker, which alleges that Google
infringed copyrights and patents for the Java programming
language to build the Android operating system for mobile
devices. Sun created the language, which is now Oracle’s
property after its 2010 takeover of Sun.  Google Chairman  Eric Schmidt  testified April 24 that Google
wasn’t required to license the parts of Java that it used in
Android and Sun made no demand for a license to use Java when
the search engine company announced Android in 2007.  Sun and Google discussed a partnership in 2005 and 2006 to
co-develop Android that would have required Google to license
Java source code, Google executives have testified during the
trial, which began April 16. Sun sought as much as $50 million
from Google to use Java, Schmidt said.  “I’m worried how we are going to replace the revenue this
is likely to submarine,” McNealy said in a February 2006 e-mail
about the proposed partnership shown to the jury.  ‘Risk With Java’  He supported taking a “risk with Java” to develop open
source smartphone software, according to the e-mail. “I just
need to understand the economics,” McNealy wrote.  The Sun co-founder saw the Android partnership with Google
as a way to boost revenue, Schmidt told the jury.  “He understood the benefit of having a billion users,”
Schmidt testified. “I took that to mean he wanted money.”  The partnership never materialized and Jonathan Schwartz,
Sun’s chief executive officer when Android was introduced in
2007, congratulated Google on the software, Schmidt testified.
Google will call Schwartz as a witness today, said Jim Prosser,
a company spokesman, in an e-mail.  Oracle, based in  Redwood City ,  California , is seeking
$1 billion in damages and a court order blocking sales of
Android, now running on more than 300 million smartphones,
unless  Mountain View , California-based Google pays for a
license.  The case is Oracle America Inc. v.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , 10-03561,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San
Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  