-- SEB’s $8.7 Billion German Property Fund Sets Make-or-Break Date
-- B y   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k   a n d   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2012-04-26T12:37:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/seb-asset-management-fund-to-open-for-redemptions-for-one-day.html
SEB Asset Management’s 6.6 billion-
euro ($8.7 billion) property mutual fund will be liquidated if
it’s unable to meet all investor demands for repayment, the
company’s chief executive officer said.  SEB ImmoInvest, the largest of 13 German real-estate funds
that suspended redemptions after the global financial crisis,
will re-open for one day on May 7 to take requests. It will
liquidate if it doesn’t have enough cash to cover all orders,
SEB Asset Management CEO said at a press conference today in
 Frankfurt . The fund has been closed for almost two years.  Knoflach said she’s optimistic the fund won’t have to
liquidate. ImmoInvest has “considerably” more than 30 percent
of its assets in cash or equivalents, after selling properties
she said.  Germany’s 85.2 billion-euro real estate mutual fund
industry may be facing its biggest crisis. Following the global
recession that ended in 2009, funds struggled to meet redemption
requests. As a result, 13 funds were frozen over the course of
two years. Of those, six funds are liquidating, and several
more, including funds owned by Credit Suisse Group AG and UBS
AG, face deadlines this year to reopen or liquidate, according
to  Germany ’s financial trade group, Bundesverband Investment und
Asset Management, or BVI.  SEB, which proposed the one-day reopening with approval
from German financial regulator BaFin, said it would allow
withdrawals only once a year, instead of daily, if the fund
continues after May 7. More than 90 percent of the fund’s
customers are small private investors, according to Knoflach.  The strategy “will fail,” said Bjoern Drescher, chief
executive of Drescher Cie, a consulting firm near Bonn. “It’s
herd psychology. I don’t think investors will heed her appeal.”  ImmoInvest owns buildings in Paris,  Singapore ,  Rome  as well
as 19 buildings on Berlin’s Potsdamer Platz. SEB Asset
Management is a unit of Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen at 
 rlarsen2@bloomberg.net  