-- SEB’s ImmoInvest Fund to Open for Redemptions for One Day in May
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2012-04-25T20:25:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/seb-s-immoinvest-fund-to-open-for-redemptions-for-one-day-in-may.html
SEB Asset Management will open its
6.4 billion-euro ($8.4 billion)  ImmoInvest (S3EA)  fund for investor
redemptions for a single day on May 7.  SEB ImmoInvest, which has been closed for redemptions for
more than two years, will remain in operation if its able to
meet all the requests for that day, the company said today in a
statement. The fund raised 1 billion euros selling 17 assets,
giving the company total liquidity of 30 percent as of May 7,
according to the statement.  Germany ’s 85.2 billion-euro real estate mutual fund
industry may be facing the biggest crisis in its 50-year
history. More than 13 of the 44 funds, which own 29 percent of
the industry’s assets, are liquidating or suspended redemptions
after being unable to generate sufficient cash.  SEB Asset Management said today that will meet none of the
redemption requests on May 7 if it can’t satisfy all of them. If
the fund continues to operate, it will change its legal status
so redemptions will be allowed just once a year.  The quality of the fund’s portfolio hasn’t been affected by
the asset sales, said SEB, the asset-management arm of
 Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB. (SEBA)  SEB ImmoInvest owns large
commercial properties around the world, including a 50 percent
stake in Berlin’s Potsdamer Platz. The collection of 19
buildings may be sold individually, the company said.  When the credit crisis started to escalate in 2008, a
scramble to withdraw money exposed a flaw in real estate mutual
funds that own properties directly. While investors are allowed
to withdraw money daily, the funds hold assets that usually take
months to sell.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  also faces a May deadline to reopen
its fund for redemptions. In February, the company said it’s in
the process of selling 850 million euros of properties owned by
its CS Euroreal fund and will decide in April whether it can
reopen the fund. Credit Suisse said the fund has almost 1.6
billion euros available.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc (ADN)  must also sell
assets this year to cover redemptions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  