-- SEC Investigates Movie Studios Over China Dealings, Reuters Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-25T04:44:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/sec-investigates-movie-studios-over-china-dealings-reuters-says.html
The Securities and Exchange
Commission is investigating at least five movie studios in the
U.S. about their dealings with China,  Reuters  reported
yesterday, citing an unidentified person familiar with the
matter.  The U.S. regulator has sent letters of inquiry to the
studios in the past two months, including  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s 20th
Century Fox, Walt Disney Co. and  Dreamworks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) 
to ask for information about potential inappropriate payments
and how the companies dealt with certain government officials in
China, Reuters said, citing a person it didn’t identify.  Julie Henderson , a spokeswoman for News Corp., and Shannon
Olivas, a spokeswoman for DreamWorks Animation, declined to
comment. Zenia Mucha, a spokeswoman for Disney, didn’t respond
to requests for comment. An e-mail to the SEC’s press office
after work hours wasn’t immediately returned. Wu Baoan, a
spokesman for the State Administration of Radio, Film and
Television, couldn’t be immediately reached for comments.  China, the world’s most populous nation, has drawn more
attention from Hollywood since February, when a previous annual
import quota of 20 films was loosened and the revenue-sharing
formula was altered, allowing foreign studios to keep a bigger
share of ticket sales. There has been a wave of U.S.-Chinese
deals as Western operators seek exposure to one of the world’s
fastest-growing movie markets.  Disney (DIS) , the world’s largest entertainment company, said
last week it plans to team up with Beijing film studio DMG
Entertainment to co-produce “Iron Man 3.” DreamWorks, creator
of the “Kung Fu Panda” films, formed a venture in February
with three Chinese partners to develop entertainment projects.  Ticket sales in China rose about 30 percent to $2 billion
last year, making it the biggest market after the U.S. and
Japan, according to the  Motion Picture Association  of America.
By comparison, worldwide box-office revenue rose 3.2 percent.  James Cameron , who directed the only two movies that have
grossed more than $2 billion in worldwide ticket sales,
“Titanic” and “Avatar”, said last week in Beijing he is
interested in co-producing movies in  China .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  