-- Secret Service Agent Selection Tougher Than Harvard
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-04-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/secret-service-agent-selection-toughter-than-harvard.html
U.S. Secret Service agents, whose
work protecting presidents has inspired myth and movies, are
supposed to live by the adage “Worthy of Trust and
Confidence.”  Getting a job with the agency is one of the more difficult
in law enforcement, with fewer than 1 percent of 15,600 special-
agent applicants selected last year.  Harvard College  admits 5.9
percent. Many speak multiple languages, hold advanced degrees
and take agency classes in ethics and “interpersonal
awareness.”  Now the Secret Service finds its reputation and its ranks
diminished by a scandal involving prostitutes in Cartagena,
Colombia, in the days before President  Barack Obama  attended a
summit there. Nine have either left the agency or are in the
process of being dismissed, and congressional hearings are
planned to shine a light on agent misconduct. The episode has
sparked the agency’s worst crisis outside of an assassination.  Former agents said they can’t fathom employees consorting
with prostitutes.  “The agency requires you to dress a certain way, speak a
certain way, deal with people a certain way,” said Dave
Wilkinson, 51, a 22-year veteran of the Secret Service who
retired in 2005. Any behavior that would cause people “to feel
Secret Service agents are not the best of the best or brings
into question their honor or integrity is as bad as it gets.”  ‘Knuckleheads’ Involved  Obama said yesterday he didn’t believe the allegations
reflected widespread shortcomings. “A couple of knuckleheads
shouldn’t detract from what they do,” he said during a taping
of NBC’s “Late Night With Jimmy Fallon” program.  The Secret Service, created in 1865 to suppress
counterfeiting of U.S. currency at the end of the Civil War,
describes itself as “one of the most elite  law enforcement 
organizations in the world.” The agency began guarding
presidents full time in 1902, the year after President William McKinley’s assassination, and its responsibilities now also
include guarding embassies and fighting financial crimes.  The last scandal that embroiled the service involved Tareq
and Michaele Salahi, a Virginia couple who slipped uninvited
into a 2009 state dinner at the White House. The agency took the
blame for the lapse, saying its officers didn’t follow
procedures.  Past Encounters  A 2002 U.S. News and World Report article described how
strippers were brought into Secret Service field offices, an
alleged affair between an agent and a cousin of President  Bill Clinton , and a sexual encounter between an agent and his
informant that ended with her dead on his bathroom floor from
cocaine abuse.  The ranks of agents are dominated by men. There were no
women until 1971. Today, about 400, or 11 percent, are women,
according to the agency.  Agents sometimes work 20-hour days, spend weeks at a time
on the road, and earn starting salaries from $43,964 to $74,891.  Job candidates are tested for intelligence and physical
endurance and also undergo background investigations. Former
agents said their backgrounds before joining the agency included
sales, accounting, law enforcement and military. The 3,500
agents are issued guns and badges.  Recruits are sent to a Georgia training center to learn
investigative techniques, and a Maryland facility to learn how
to guard top officials, investigate crimes, fire weapons and
arrest suspects. The mandatory  retirement age  is 57.  Payment Dispute  The agency is investigating allegations that employees
hired prostitutes and took them back to their hotel rooms in
advance of the summit in Cartagena, which ended on April 15. The
allegations came to light after a dispute erupted between an
agent and a prostitute who said she hadn’t been paid the agreed-
upon fee.  The majority of those under investigation were agents,
according to Representative  Peter King , Chairman of the House
Homeland Security Committee, said in an interview. King, a
Republican from  New York , was briefed by the agency.  Senator  Joe Lieberman , an independent from  Connecticut  who
is chairman of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs
Committee, said he’ll hold hearings next month on the agents’
behavior. The hearing will examine where there’s other evidence
of misconduct by agents, he said in an interview.  Ed Donovan, an agent and spokesman for the Secret Service,
called the  Colombia  incident “an anomaly.”  “We don’t think this is a cultural thing,” he said.  Movie Portrayal  Agents’ work was spotlighted in the 1993 Clint Eastwood
movie “In the Line of Fire,” which features an agent who
couldn’t protect President  John F. Kennedy  and is determined to
save another president.  The episode in Colombia may reflect a cultural shift, said
Frank Ochberg, a psychiatrist who did a 1978 study on agents’
job stresses that was commissioned by the Secret Service. He
said he saw no indication of behavior comparable to the
prostitution allegations.  The allegations suggest those involved lacked “the
maturity, the dignity” that agents exhibited 30 years ago, he
said. To add agents skilled at preventing terrorist attacks, the
agency may have brought in recruits who are more aggressive and
reckless, he said.  “I don’t think that what went on” in Colombia “is simply
a couple of rogues,” Ochberg said.  A former White House aide, who worked with agents in
planning dozens of presidential events and spoke on condition of
anonymity, said some would hang out in hotel bars and pick up
women. The aide said he never saw evidence they were interested
in prostitutes.  Agency Moved  The agency’s quality has diminished since it was moved in
2003 from the Treasury Department to the Homeland Security
Department, said Ronald Kessler, the author of 2009’s “In the
President’s Secret Service: Behind the Scenes with Agents in the
Line of Fire and the Presidents They Protect.”  The Secret Service has become less vigilant in screening
the crowds at public events, Kessler said. The agency has been
given more people to protect at more events since the Sept. 11
attacks, on top of their existing duties, Kessler said.  “The agents are totally overworked, overwhelmed,” Kessler
said.  Since 2002, the agency has added 500 agents and 400
uniformed officers.  Some are assigned to the president, vice president and
their families. Others are tapped for so-called jump teams, like
the one that went to Colombia, to set up security before a U.S.
dignitary’s visit.  The job can be thrilling and heartbreaking, former agents
said.  Kennedy Horror  Clint Hill, who became an icon of agent dedication when he
vaulted onto the presidential limousine and flattened his body
over a mortally wounded Kennedy, said he never shook the horror
of that moment, or of the president’s wife racing toward him.  Only after publishing the book “Mrs. Kennedy and Me” this
month has he been able to absorb what happened, he said.  “I’ve had a difficult time,” Hill said. He said he was
“shocked” by the Colombia incident.  “I don’t recall ever a situation like I’ve been reading
about,” said Hill, 80, who retired from the agency in 1975.  Stress is a job hazard. During a presidential campaign,
agents work 21 days on the protective details and then get 21
days off, Wilkinson said.  Long absences lead to missed dinner parties and resentful
spouses, wrote Philip H. Melanson and Peter F. Stevens in their
2002 book, “The Secret Service: The Hidden History of an
Enigmatic Agency.”  Counting the Tiles  Monotony was almost as big a threat to an agent’s sanity as
the thought of getting killed, former agent Gerald Blaine wrote
in his 2010 book, “The Kennedy Detail.”  As he stood post outside the Oval Office’s closed door, his
back to Kennedy’s muffled voice discussing civil rights
legislation, Blaine said he couldn’t resist counting the squares
on the black-and-white checkerboard floor.  “Everybody hated the damn tiles,” he said.  Some agents found solace in alcohol, others in women they
met in their travels. One flight attendant on a George McGovern
campaign plane in 1972 “entertained no less than 18” Secret
Service men, according to the book “The Boys on the Bus” by
Timothy Crouse.  The question now is why agents appear to be going further,
Kessler said.  “I’m sure those things happened” in the past, “but they
were not at this proportion,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  