-- Senate Approves U.S. Postal Service Financial Overhaul Bill
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-04-25T20:58:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/senate-to-vote-on-u-s-postal-service-financial-overhaul-bill.html
The Senate passed a  Postal Service 
overhaul bill intended to save the cash-strapped organization
from default.  The measure was passed 62-37. The bill would make it harder
for the Postal Service to close facilities, authorize it to
provide non-postal products and services, revise payments to two
federal funds that provide worker retirement benefits, and
install an innovation officer to create new business practices.  Enactment would show that “we can face a tough problem
that exists in a public service,” said Connecticut independent
 Joe Lieberman , the bill’s sponsor. He said the proposal will
“ask people to sacrifice but keep a venerable and critically
important American institution alive and well.”  The vote on the bill, S. 1789, followed more than five
months of negotiations among senators, led by Vermont
independent  Bernie Sanders , who were concerned about how post-
office closings would affect their constituents.  The Postal Service has marked about 3,700 post offices and
more than 220 mail processing facilities for potential shutdown.
Those numbers are already being reduced in Postal Service
estimates to comply with revised minimum-service standards in
the Senate bill.  The House hasn’t considered its main Postal Service
overhaul bill,  H.R. 2309 , which would create a commission
modeled on the Defense Department’s base-closing commissions to
oversee closing postal facilities.  Appeal Process  The Senate legislation includes a new version of an appeal
process allowing customers to protest planned closures of
individual offices. The Postal Service would conduct surveys on
alternatives to offering retail services.  Maryland  Democrat Barbara Mikulski, who had placed a hold
on the Senate bill to protest the planned closing of a mail
processing facility in Easton, Maryland, withdrew an amendment
that would have placed new restrictions on the closing process.
She cited assurances from the Postal Service that the facility
would remain open under standards set by the bill.  “We need postal reform, but we need to be smart about how
we do it so that we preserve important mail delivery services in
our communities,” Mikulski said in a press release.  Before passing the bill the Senate adopted several
amendments, including one restricting agency spending on travel
and conferences.  Vote By Mail  Other adopted amendments would prohibit, through the
November election, closings of postal facilities in states that
use vote-by-mail procedures, and set a one-year moratorium on
rural post office closures, with some exceptions.  The Postal Service has estimated it may reach its $15
billion debt ceiling as soon as this year if scheduled payments
to its retiree health benefits fund aren’t deferred or if there
were a major interruption in service, such as an anthrax scare.  The Senate bill would adjust the health benefits costs,
canceling a 10-year payment schedule enacted in 2006 that
required the Postal Service to set aside about $5.5 billion a
year for future retirees. Instead, the bill would create a 40-
year payment schedule with reduced pre-funding levels for the
projected liabilities.  The Postal Service, which reported losses of $3.3 billion
in the quarter that ended Dec. 31, attributed $3.1 billion of
that to required payments into the retiree health-care fund.  The Postal Service has estimated the measure could save it
$19 billion a year starting in 2016, Lieberman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  