-- House Republicans Seek Initiative on Student-Loan Rate
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-04-26T16:15:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/senate-democrats-seek-to-boost-obama-on-student-loan-rate.html
House Republican leaders moved to
seize the initiative for preventing college student-loan rates
from doubling as they tried to blunt the political impact of
President Barack Obama’s re-election pitch for the youth vote.  House Speaker  John Boehner  announced that the Republican-
controlled House will vote tomorrow on legislation to extend for
another year the 3.4 percent rate that students pay on
government education loans. Unless Congress acts by July 1, the
rate will rise to 6.8 percent.  Senate Democrats  and Republicans
are offering competing plans for freezing the interest rates.  Boehner unveiled the Republican legislation as Obama took
his campaign this week to campuses in three battleground states:
the University of  North Carolina , the University of Colorado and
the University of Iowa. The Democratic president also appeared
on NBC’s “Late Night with  Jimmy Fallon ” to promote his plan.  Boehner, an Ohio Republican, said today that Obama’s
campaign should reimburse the Treasury for his trips to create a
“fake fight” over  student loans . Both parties knew the
interest-rate increase “wasn’t going to take effect,” the
speaker said.  Obama and  Mitt Romney , who declared himself the Republican
presidential nominee after sweeping five primary contests on
April 24, are vying for the youth vote in a race that pollsters
project will be close in the November election.  Unemployed or Underemployed  The former Massachusetts governor joined Obama in urging
lawmakers to freeze interest rates students pay for the
government loans while blaming him for an economy in which “50
percent of recent college graduates are unemployed or
underemployed.”  Senate Democrats and the White House are seeking a one-year
freeze in the interest rate. The $6 billion cost would be offset
by limiting a tax provision that allows some owners of so-called
S-corporations to avoid paying Medicare payroll taxes on their
earnings, Senator  Tom Harkin , an  Iowa  Democrat, told reporters.  The 50-year-old president told students in Iowa City, Iowa,
yesterday that he and first lady  Michelle Obama  were paying off
student loans as recently as eight years ago. “We’ve been in
your shoes,” he said at the University of Iowa. “We can’t
price the middle class out of an education.”  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, plans
to introduce a bill modeled on Obama’s rate-freeze plan. A
Senate Democratic leadership aide said the student loan
legislation will come up for a vote in May after the Senate
returns from next week’s recess.  Boehner made his announcement outside his office at a press
conference that was called 10 minutes before he appeared at the
podium.  Seven Years of College  “I know this issue well,” Boehner said. “It took me
seven years to work my way through college, working every job I
could get my hands on.”  Boehner said the $6 billion cost of preserving the 3.4
percent rate for another year would be financed under his
proposal from a disease prevention and public-health fund in the
health-care overhaul law Congress passed in 2010 when Democrats
were in the majority.  Boehner derided that source as one of the “slush funds”
in the health-care measure. The Republican bill would rescind
the remaining $11.9 billion from the fund and use $5.9 billion
to freeze loan  interest rates  for a year. The rest would be used
for deficit reduction.  Disease Prevention  House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  told reporters today
that Democrats will urge their members to vote against the
Republican student-loan measure because it would be financed by
eliminating child-immunizations, cervical cancer screenings and
other disease prevention programs.  Republicans would pay for freezing the interest rate by
waging “another assault on women’s health,” said Pelosi of
 California .  Boehner said politicians in Washington shouldn’t be
“exploiting the challenges that young Americans face for
political gain.”  Boehner rejected a reporter’s suggestion that he was
joining Obama to try to get the youth vote. “Please, this issue
is not a partisan issue” because “no one here expected that
interest rates were going to go up in July,” he said.
The bill is H.R. 4628.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rowley in  Washington  at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  