-- Siemens Cuts Full-Year Profit Forecast on Wind-Power Cost
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-04-25T10:58:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/siemens-cuts-full-year-profit-forecast-on-wind-power-char.html
Siemens AG (SIE)  cut its annual profit
forecast for the third time in five years as delays in linking
off-shore wind parks to  Europe ’s power grid hinder Chief
Executive Officer  Peter Loescher ’s thrust into renewable energy.  Siemens now  expects  net income from continuing operations
of 5.2 billion euros ($6.9 billion) to 5.4 billion euros in the
year through September, down from a 6 billion-euro target, the
Munich-based company said. Ingo-Martin Schachel, an analyst at
Commerzbank AG, said he expected a reduction to 5 billion euros.  Loescher is suffering setbacks to his goal for Siemens,
Europe’s biggest engineering company, to generate 40 billion
euros in sales within two years from products related to the
environment and energy saving. Siemens’s transmissions unit has
booked 481 million euros in extra costs this year from delays in
hooking up marine wind farms. Loescher said today that the
“majority” of charges have already been booked.  “There were fears that didn’t materialize,” Schachel said
by telephone. “It was a positive surprise” that they didn’t
cut the goal more. Schachel raised his  recommendation  on Siemens
stock today to buy from hold.  Siemens  rose  as much as 2.2 percent to 71.33 euros and was
trading 1 percent higher as of 12:54 p.m. in  Frankfurt , valuing
the company at 64.5 billion euros. The increase compares with a
1.3 percent gain in  Germany ’s benchmark DAX Index.  Orders to Revive  Orders, which fell 13 percent in three months through
March, are expected to revive in the second fiscal half compared
with the first, Loescher said today on a conference call.  “This year we had quite a hard comparison basis, with some
large orders being booked in the second quarter last year,”
said Sjoerd Ummels, a Brussels-based analyst at ING Groep NV,
who advises investors to hold Siemens stock. “It will be quite
a different picture in the second half.”  Second-quarter sales  rose  9 percent to 19.3 billion euros,
beating an analyst estimate of 18.8 billion euros, according to
a Bloomberg survey. Profit from continuing operations fell 67
percent to 1.05 billion euros.  “As expected, the second quarter was not easy,” Loescher
said. For the full year “we anticipate that most of our
businesses, including the short-cycle businesses of the industry
sector, will deliver strong earnings performances.”  Operating profit gained 5.1 percent at Siemens’s industry
division and 9.8 percent at the infrastructure and cities unit,
Siemens said. Earnings at the health-care and energy businesses
fell because of charges.  ‘Demanding’ Wind Projects  The German company’s off-shore wind projects in the  North
Sea  are “extremely demanding,” Loescher said today. Compared
with coastal U.K. platforms, the projects are five times as far
from the mainland, have twice the capacity and weigh five times
as much, he said. Regulatory authorities haven’t reached a final
decision on whether facilities of this size should be governed
by regulations for ships or for oil platforms, he said.  Siemens appointed Karlheinz Springer to replace Udo Niehage
as head of the power-transmission unit as it seeks to stem
losses from the business. Springer, who was formerly head of
power transmissions solutions, take the post on May 1.  The wind power industry is struggling with low margins and
investment risks that are being exacerbated by cuts in European
subsidies, Felix Ferlemann, the head of Siemens’s wind-power
division, said at a conference in Copenhagen on April 16.  ABB Earnings  ABB (ABBN) , the world’s largest maker of power-distribution
equipment, expects no delays or one-time charges at its off-
shore wind park projects, Financial Times Deutschland said
yesterday, citing an interview with Peter Terwiesch, head of the
Zurich-based company’s German operations. ABB’s first-quarter
earnings before interest and taxes held steady at $1.05 billion,
the manufacturer said today.  Siemens’s power-transmission unit reported a loss of 169
million euros in the second quarter. Siemens also incurred a 640
million-euro equity loss at its Nokia Siemens Networks joint
venture.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Noel at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net  