-- Sina Shuts Down Users’ Microblogs as China Fights Online Rumors
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-04-25T12:42:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/sina-shuts-down-users-microblogs-as-china-fights-online-rumors.html
Sina Corp. (SINA) , operator of the
Twitter-like Weibo service in China, shut four user accounts for
spreading rumors as authorities tighten control of information
spread through microblog services.  The accounts were shut after people used the service to
“fabricate and circulate harmful political rumors on the
Internet,” the company said in a notice sent to microblog users
yesterday. Sina identified the accounts by their Chinese-
language usernames, without naming the owners.  China on Mar. 31 ordered a 72-hour halt on the comment
functions on Sina and Tencent Holdings Ltd.’s microblog
services, after authorities detained six people for spreading
rumors of a coup attempt in Beijing. Those rumors on March 20
helped spark the biggest jump in four months in the cost of
insuring against a default on Chinese  government bonds .  “The rumor situation is a big problem,” said  Bill Bishop ,
an independent media consultant in Beijing, who also received
the notice from Sina. “It’s not Weibo’s fault, but Weibo is not
helping the problem.”  Liu Qi, a spokesman for Sina in Beijing, didn’t immediately
reply to an e-mail or calls to his mobile phone seeking comment
today.  Chinese authorities detained the six people last month for
“fabricating or disseminating online rumors” that military
vehicles had entered Beijing and that “something wrong” was
happening in the Chinese capital, the official Xinhua News
Agency reported on Mar. 31. The ban against commenting on
microblog entries began that day and ended April 3.  Bo Xilai  The speculation about a coup attempt came five days after
Bo Xilai, earlier seen as a contender for promotion to  China ’s
top decision-making body, was removed as Communist Party chief
of the municipality of Chongqing. China announced April 10 that
Bo had been suspended from his party positions and that his wife
was suspected of being involved in the murder of British
businessman Neil Heywood.  Government oversight of microblogging services has
tightened as they’ve grown in popularity. Sina and Tencent each
have more than 300 million registered microblog users.  In December, China began requiring users in cities
including Beijing, Guangzhou and Shenzhen to register their real
names. That rule will be expanded to other regions,  Wang Chen ,
minister of the State Council Information Office, said in
January.  Sina accounted for 65 percent of China’s microblog market
by pageviews in December, compared with 27 percent for  Tencent (700) ,
according to a Jan. 12 report by BOCOM International.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  