-- Sony Sends 15 Million Songs to Cloud to Close ITunes Gap: Tech
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 2012-04-25T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/sony-sends-15-million-songs-to-cloud-to-close-itunes-gap-tech.html
Sony Corp. will probably put songs
by  Michael Jackson  and Whitney Houston online in Japan through
its streaming music service. The trouble will be finding
listeners who haven’t bought them from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in the past
seven years.  Sony said it will introduce Music Unlimited, a cloud-based
catalog of 15 million songs, in its home market by the end of
December after rolling it out in 16 other countries first. The
company hopes flat fees, unlimited listens and accessibility
through mobile and gaming devices will help close the gap with
iTunes, which started offering downloads in Japan in 2005.  Music Unlimited ’s late arrival in the world’s second-
biggest music market will serve as a test of new Chief Executive
Officer  Kazuo Hirai ’s ability to bring  Sony (6758) ’s different units
closer together. Hirai, who started in the music division, is
trying to turn a profit after four years of losses and has said
that integrating the company’s hardware and software offerings
as “One Sony” is key to that.  “Sony still has its silo structure,” said  Takashi Watanabe , an analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in  Tokyo . “A
lack of collaboration between sections probably caused a delay
in offering the online entertainment service. Sony is trying to
change that.”  ‘Vague’ Explanation  Sean Yoneda, a spokesman for Sony, declined to specify a
date for Music Unlimited’s introduction in Japan. Sony’s music
unit was the second-biggest contributor of operating income at
the Tokyo-based company, trailing financial services, in the
fiscal year that ended in March 2011, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Sony has yet to deliver on a 2009 plan to lure customers to
its hardware devices by integrating online services for games,
music, books and films, Watanabe said.  “Music content could be a key factor to revive Sony,” he
said. “The time is over where an electronics company can excel
just because it has a good device. You have to have a very good
platform to capture your clients within your system.”  Still, Hirai, 51, didn’t list the company’s entertainment
business among the top priorities when he announced his plan for
reviving the company April 12.  “Sony’s explanation of how it plans to leverage its
content business in its electronics business has been vague,”
said  Yoshiharu Izumi , an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
Tokyo.  Springsteen, Jackson  Sony introduced its online music service under the name
Qriocity in the U.K. and Ireland in December 2010. Renamed in
August 2011, it has boosted its catalog to 15 million songs
released by Sony’s own music units -- which include Jackson,
Houston and  Bruce Springsteen  -- and others including  Universal
Music Group , the world’s largest recorded music company, and
Warner Music Group.  Music Unlimited lets users stream songs via Web-connected
Bravia televisions, some Walkman models, PlayStation game
players, personal computers and Android-based mobile phones. The
service was expanded to the PlayStation Vita in March after
being enabled on Sony Tablets and other Android-based tablets in
October.  By contrast, iTunes users can buy music and store it on PCs
or portable devices for listening without an Internet
connection.  Walkman, Android  Sony introduced a download option for non-networked Walkman
music players in December and a similar service for Android
application users last month, according to company statements.
Yoneda declined to say how many subscribers Music Unlimited has.  Until Music Unlimited becomes available locally, Japanese
customers who want to buy songs from Sony online must do so
through other providers, including iTunes. That means Sony has
to split the revenue with those providers.  Sony’s global  revenue  from music production totaled 458
billion yen ($5.6 billion) in the year ended March 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Online sales make up
almost half of the music unit’s revenue, and about 70 percent of
that comes from selling songs on iTunes, Watanabe estimated.  The Japanese music market totaled 353.8 billion yen last
year, according to the Recording Industry Association of  Japan .
Downloads accounted for 72 billion yen, according to the
industry group’s website.  Apple unveiled its iPod music player in 2001 and started
the iTunes music store in 2003. The company has benefited as
consumers shifted from CDs to online music services and offers
iTunes on its own devices, such as the iPod, iPhone and iPad
tablet, as well as PCs from other manufacturers.  ITunes, Spotify  A stronger presence by Sony in the online music business
could put pressure on Apple and possibly lead to changes in the
iTunes fee structure to bring higher margins to content owners,
including Sony, Watanabe said.  Natsuki Eto, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman for Sony, said
negotiations with content owners are among the matters that must
be resolved before Music Unlimited can be introduced in new
markets, including Japan.  “If we manage to make an entry this year, it would be
appropriate timing,” she said. “There are issues to clear to
start our service in each region.”  The number of songs on Music Unlimited is lower than the
approximately 20 million titles offered through Cupertino,
California-based Apple’s iTunes store. London-based streaming
service Spotify Ltd. offers more than 16 million songs,
including Sony artists, according to Alison Bonny, a
spokeswoman.  Google Music  ITunes charges from 99 cents to $1.29 per song, while
Spotify costs $5 to $10 a month. Music Unlimited charges a
monthly fee of $3.99 for its basic plan or $9.99 for a premium
plan offering unlimited access and programmed music channels.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , owner of the world’s biggest search engine, is
also challenging Apple’s dominance in online music. Google
entered the market in November, letting users store and stream
as many as 20,000 songs online and listen to tracks on multiple
devices. The  Mountain View , California-based company has
partnerships with 1,000 record labels, including Vivendi SA’s
Universal Music Group, letting it offer 13 million songs.  Spotify, which started in the U.S. in July, has grown to
about 2 million subscribers, according to  Ken Parks , chief
content officer for the company.  Beyond increasing revenue from music, Sony could use its
content to boost sales of smartphones by introducing products
such as a free-download phone, Watanabe said.  Sony had a 4.2 percent share of the smartphone market last
year, while Apple controlled 18.9 percent, and Suwon, South
Korea-based  Samsung (005930)  had 18.5 percent, according to researcher
Gartner Inc.  In September, Hirai unveiled the Sony Entertainment Network
that will let users access all Sony software content, including
music, from a single account.  Even so, Sony’s content services have yet to be integrated.
Electronic books aren’t on the new platform, Video Unlimited
isn’t available on PlayStation game devices and game contents
aren’t offered on all Sony products.  “As there are many existing applications for different
devices, it’s technically difficult to put them on SEN all at
once,” said Eto, the spokeswoman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  