-- South African Unsecured Credit Growth Too Fast, SARB Says
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-04-25T08:48:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/south-african-unsecured-credit-growth-too-fast-sarb-says.html
South African lending remains
“risk-averse” and consumers are reducing debt, the  Reserve
Bank  said, indicating growth in  Africa ’s largest economy may
remain moderate.  “None of the retail banks surveyed had loosened lending
standards in the fourth quarter,” the Reserve Bank said in its
half-yearly Financial Stability Review released in Pretoria, the
capital, today. “These results could be an indication that
banks still remain risk-averse.”  Consumer spending and lending have been slow to recover
from recession in 2009, even as the central bank kept its
benchmark rate unchanged at 5.5 percent, the lowest level in
more than three decades, since November 2010. Rising oil and
electricity prices and new road tolls in Johannesburg may add to
inflation, eroding consumer demand, the Reserve Bank said.  “Lower household demand will likely have a negative impact
on corporate-sector earnings,” the Reserve Bank said.  Household debt as a percentage of disposable income dropped
to 74.6 percent in the fourth quarter from 77.3 percent a year
earlier, the central bank said. Total compensation rose an
annualized 8.1 percent in the fourth quarter, faster than
inflation, which was 6.1 percent in December. The report covers
the last six months of 2011.  Commercial bank’s haven’t been tightening credit principles
and are lending responsibly, Rene van Wyk, the banking
regulator, said in  Pretoria .  No Systemic Risk  While the bank is monitoring a surge in unsecured lending,
the increase doesn’t pose a “ systemic risk ” to the banking
system, the report said.  “At these levels unsecured lending does not constitute a
bubble and the bank will continue to monitor developments
closely,” the Reserve Bank said.  The value of unsecured loans in the third quarter of 2011
rose 53 percent from a year earlier to 101.1 billion rand ($13
billion), representing 8 percent of all lending, according to
 South Africa ’s National Credit Regulator. The debt was less than
1 percent of total commercial-bank assets, Lesetja Kganyago,
deputy governor of the Reserve Bank, said today.  South African banks may face “challenges” to meet
liquidity requirements under Basel III regulations, the central
bank said. The nation’s banks are stable and already satisfy
Basel III requirements for capital adequacy, it said.  The rand strengthened 0.4 percent to 7.7625 against the
dollar by 10:30 a.m. in Johannesburg, the strongest level in
three weeks, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net  