-- South Korea’s Economy Expands at Fastest Pace in a Year
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-04-26T02:27:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/south-korea-s-economy-expands-at-fastest-pace-in-a-year.html
South Korea ’s economy expanded at
the fastest pace in a year even as austerity measures in Europe
and a slowdown in  China  cloud the outlook for exports. Stocks
and the won rose.  Gross domestic product  rose 0.9 percent in the first
quarter from the previous three months, when it gained 0.3
percent, the Bank of Korea said today. That matches the median
estimate of 13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Government spending  and investments by semiconductor chip
makers boosted the economy as European nations stepped up
efforts to ease a debt crisis that has crimped Asian exports.
The U.K. sinking into its first double-dip recession since the
1970s highlights the threat that global demand will falter as
developed nations cut spending to improve their finances, and
 Bank of Korea  Governor Kim Choong Soo said last week that
“downside risks” will probably remain high for some time.  “GDP has recovered from a momentary soft patch in the
fourth quarter that was largely caused by heightened
uncertainties over the European debt crisis, which have since
eased,” Wai Ho Leong, a senior regional economist at  Barclays
Capital  in  Singapore , said in a note after the report. The
central bank may keep interest rates unchanged this year, “with
a growing chance of a hike in the second half.”  The won rose 0.2 percent to 1,138.55 per dollar as of 10:30
a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Kospi stock index advanced 0.3 percent.  N.Z. Holds Rate  Asian stocks rose for a second day as Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said he’s prepared to do more to
stimulate growth and after South Korea’s economic report. The
MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 0.6 percent as of 10:32 a.m. in
 Tokyo .  Earlier today, New Zealand’s central bank left  interest
rates  at a record low, citing benign inflation, and signaled the
rising currency may delay an increase in borrowing costs.  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region, a report may show
Singapore’s industrial production fell 5.8 percent in March from
a year earlier, according to a Bloomberg News survey. Thailand’s
exports probably grew 0.5 percent last month from a year earlier,
a separate survey shows ahead of data due today.  In Europe, a report today will probably show inflation
slowed in April in  Germany , the euro region’s biggest economy.
Consumer prices, calculated using a harmonized European Union
method, rose 2.2 percent from 2.3 percent in March, a survey
showed ahead of data scheduled for release today. Reports on
Italian business confidence and euro-area confidence are also
due today.  U.S. Jobs  In the U.S., fewer Americans filed applications for
 unemployment benefits  last week, with jobless claims projected
to fall by 11,000 to 375,000 in the week ended April 21,
according to the median estimate of 47 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News before a report today.  South Korea’s economy grew 2.8 percent from a year earlier,
today’s report showed.  “The biggest challenge facing South Korea’s economy now is
weakening export momentum, with  Europe  suffering a slump and
many emerging countries slowing,” Park Sang Hyun, chief
economist at HI Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul, said
before the GDP report. “The central bank is unlikely to raise
interest rates for an extended period.”  Exports increased 3.4 percent in the first quarter from the
previous quarter, when overseas shipments declined 2.3 percent,
today’s report showed. Corporate investment in facilities rose
10.8 percent from the previous quarter, when it fell 4.3 percent,
while government spending increased 3.1 percent after dropping
0.8 percent.  Asian Demand  “We’re performing relatively well given the weak global
economy,” Kim Young Bae, director general at the central bank’s
statistics department, told reporters in  Seoul  today. “Our
economy seems to be moving along the path that we have expected.”  Kim said that the government’s aggressive fiscal spending
and sizable investment by semiconductor chip makers gave an
additional boost to the first quarter.  Hong Kong ’s export figures this week highlighted weakness
in Asian demand as China’s economy cools after a crackdown by
the government on real-estate speculation. In Europe, the U.K.
yesterday reported an economic contraction in the first quarter
that may fuel an anti-austerity backlash.  The risks for South Korea are also geopolitical, with  North
Korea  escalating threats and testing a rocket after Kim Jong Un
became the totalitarian state’s new leader. The North celebrated
the 80th anniversary of its military, two days after threatening
to turn Seoul to “ashes.”  Record Profits  Signs are mixed within the South Korean economy.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  posted a record operating profit in
the first quarter as gains from selling phones and TVs helped
mask a slump in earnings at the chip business. At the same time,
Posco, the world’s third-biggest steelmaker by output, said net
income fell because of rising raw-material costs and waning
demand for the metal used in cars, ships and buildings.  “The economy seems to have turned around a corner but any
recovery will come slowly,” said Kim Nam Hyun, a Seoul-based
fixed income analyst at Eugene Investment & Futures.  The  International Monetary Fund  raised its global growth
forecast for the first time in more than a year on April 17,
estimating a 3.5 percent expansion this year. Two days later,
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said a “timid” world
recovery is threatened by dark clouds including deleveraging,
 oil prices  and unemployment. Europe is the “epicenter” of
potential risks, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at   ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  