-- Sovcomflot Sees Profit in Putin’s Billions for LNG, Offshore Oil
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y   a n d   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a
-- 2012-04-25T11:27:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/sovcomflot-sees-profit-in-putin-s-billions-for-lng-offshore-oil.html
OAO Sovcomflot, owner of the
world’s largest tanker fleet, is expanding offshore services and
liquefied natural gas transportation to benefit from Russian
President-elect  Vladimir Putin ’s call for more than $500 billion
of investments on the continental shelf.  The Russian state-owned shipper plans to double the share
of revenue from LNG and offshore services by 2017 as it seeks
long-term contracts to reduce the cyclical nature of the tanker
business, the St. Petersburg-based operator’s Chief Financial
Officer Nikolay Kolesnikov said. LNG will account for 20 percent
and offshore services 40 percent of the total, he said.  “We see potential growth and have aggressive expansion
plans,” Kolesnikov said in an interview in Moscow. Partners in
the Arctic may include OAO Gazprom’s Shtokman project, OAO
Novatek’s Yamal LNG project and a joint venture between OAO
Rosneft and Exxon Mobil Corp. to explore the Kara Sea, he said.  Russia , the world’s biggest energy exporter, aims to create
new production centers offshore and in remote Arctic regions as
output falls in mature regions. Putin this month proposed tax
breaks for new offshore projects that he said will help attract
$500 billion of spending. Sovcomflot has been developing the so-
called Northern Sea Route, sending test cargoes of gas
condensate to Asian markets since 2010.  Yamal LNG plans to start production in 2016 and produce 16
million metric tons of the fuel by 2018. Rosneft and Exxon may
start drilling in the Kara Sea in 2014, with first output as
early as 2018.  Profit During Crisis  Sovcomflot had net income of $53.7 million last year even
as the global market suffered from oversupply and low rates. Its
largest international peers, including Teekay Tankers Ltd.,
Frontline Ltd., Overseas Shipholding Group Inc. and Tsakos
Energy Navigation Ltd., posted losses last year.  The tanker market will remain depressed this year before
rates recover by 10 percent to 15 percent in 2013, Kolesnikov
said. Growth in the international tanker fleet, driven by ships
commissioned before the downturn began in 2009, will balance
with rising demand, he said.  “We expect better results in 2013 even if rates are
stagnant as we have new long-term contracts that we will begin
to service next year,” Kolesnikov said. Earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization will double to $1
billion by 2017 from $461 million last year, he said.  Sovcomflot has $1.4 billion of outstanding shipbuilding
contracts, including four LNG tankers, four Aframax tankers for
use on the  Baltic Sea  and two very large crude carriers that
were commissioned by PetroChina Co., Kolesnikov said. Aframaxes
can haul about 600,000 barrels of crude and VLCCs can carry some
2 million barrels.  The government may delay the sale of part of Sovcomflot
from this year because of the slump in global shipping markets,
Economy Minister Elvira Nabiullina said in March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net ;
Ekaterina Shatalova in Moscow at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  