-- Sprint Loss Is Smaller Than Projected as IPhone Boosts Sales
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-04-25T20:22:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/sprint-loss-is-smaller-than-projected-as-iphone-boosts-bills.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the third-
largest U.S. wireless carrier, posted a smaller first-quarter
loss than analysts predicted as rising monthly bills provided
some relief to a company plagued by user defections.  The loss widened to 29 cents a share from 15 cents a year
earlier,  Overland Park , Kansas-based Sprint said today in a
statement. Analysts  projected  a loss of 41 cents, the average of
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 5.1 percent to $8.73
billion, compared with the $8.7 billion analysts predicted.  Sprint, which has reported five straight annual losses,
boosted contract customers’ average monthly bills 6.6 percent
from a year earlier to $59.88 as users spent more on smartphone
data plans. The carrier’s addition of the  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPhone last
year is helping it regain some ground lost to larger rivals
Verizon Wireless and  AT&T Inc. (T) , which posted rising sales and
earnings this month.  “This was easily the most impressive quarter of the three
telcos that have reported to date,” said Kevin Smithen, an
analyst at Macquarie Capital USA Inc. in New York with an
outperform rating on the stock. Operating earnings “exceeded
all the estimates.”  Sprint fell 1.6 percent to $2.43 at the close in New York.
The shares have tumbled 49 percent in the past 12 months.  IPhone Sales  Sprint sold 1.5 million iPhones, helped by its $99.99-a-
month unlimited calling-and-data plan that Verizon Wireless and
AT&T don’t offer. Smithen estimated 1.2 million and Walt Piecyk,
an analyst at BTIG LLC in  New York , predicted 1.4 million.  The monthly bill for contract customers exceeded the $59.25
average of eight analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “Data prices are rising for the consumer and as a result
Sprint, AT&T and Verizon are reporting higher” earnings, Piecyk
said.  Sprint lost 192,000 contract customers, driven by its
Nextel unit, which is preparing to shut down a network using
older technology. Analysts projected a loss of 54,558 such users
on average. Contract users for the Sprint brand rose by 263,000.
AT&T gained 187,000 contract subscribers in the first quarter,
and Verizon Wireless added 501,000 such customers.  Sprint’s  operating income  before depreciation and
amortization was $1.2 billion. Analysts had estimated earnings
on that basis of $937 million. The net loss expanded to $863
million from $439 million a year earlier.  Slowing Market  Sprint Chief Executive Officer  Dan Hesse  is boosting
spending to catch up with the bigger competitors. The U.S.
wireless market is nearing saturation, putting Sprint, AT&T and
Verizon Wireless into more intense competition as they try to
get customers to upgrade to smartphones such as the iPhone that
let users browse the Web and stream video.  The number of wireless devices, including tablets, now
exceeds the number of people in the U.S., said Bob Roche, a
statistician with CTIA, a wireless industry trade group. Roche
says so-called wireless penetration is 105 percent.  Sprint’s capital spending increased 44 percent to $800
million in the first quarter. The company is trying to catch up
with AT&T and Verizon Wireless in faster network technology
called long-term evolution, or LTE. Sprint reiterated it expects
to have LTE service in six major cities, including Dallas and
Baltimore, by mid-year.  AT&T said yesterday that it had LTE service in 35 markets
and that it expects to double that number by year-end.  Verizon
Wireless , which has a one-year lead on the pack, said this month
that it had LTE service in 230 cities.  Rising Costs  The push to take on AT&T and Verizon Wireless leaves Sprint
coping with rising expenses that include a four-year $15.5
billion contract to sell the iPhone and $10 billion for network
expansion over the next two years. The company sold $4 billion
of bonds in November and $2 billion in February, a sign its
expansion plans are underfunded.  The company has $8.8 billion in cash, short-term
investments and credit lines, Chief Financial Officer Joe Euteneuer said on a conference call. He also said the company
was in discussions to get between $1 billion to $3 billion in
vendor financing from its equipment suppliers.  Spending on the network plan will probably double this
quarter, Euteneuer said. The spending surge will cause free  cash
flow  to turn negative later this year, he said. And with the
planned shutdown of the Nextel network, subscriber losses will
worsen, he said.  Smithen said these developments were expected as the
company makes its transition to LTE. Sprint’s pain will lead to
gains for investors, he said.  “Sprint is the most attractive U.S. telco under our
coverage, with the potential to more than double over the next
two years,” Smithen said.  Sprint also considered buying smaller rival  MetroPCS
Communications Inc. (PCS) , only to have its board vote down the
acquisition, two people familiar with the plan said in February.
The board decided the stock and cash transaction, which may have
cost as much as $8 billion including debt, would have been too
expensive given the current level of Sprint’s stock price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  