-- Standard Life’s Sales Beat Estimates on Pension Inflows
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-04-25T11:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/standard-life-s-sales-beat-estimates-on-pension-inflows-2-.html
Standard Life Plc (SL/) ,  Scotland ’s
biggest insurer, reported first-quarter revenue that beat
analysts’ estimates as pension sales to companies helped boost
assets under management.  Revenue from long-term savings fell to 5 billion pounds ($8
billion) in the three months to March 31, the Edinburgh-based
firm said today in a statement, beating the 4.87 billion-pound
estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by the company. Assets under
administration rose 4 percent to 206.8 billion pounds in the
three-month period.  “We view this as a relatively solid result in what remain
challenging conditions,”Christopher Esson, a London-based
analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote in a note to clients
today. “We continue to regard Standard Life as one of the
structurally better positioned for upcoming regulatory reforms,
and this should be reflected in superior growth.”  Standard Life wants to manage more Britons’ savings as they
move to private pension plans from so-called final-salary plans.
It had previously cautioned that sales may slow early in the
first half due to regulatory changes scheduled for later in the
year. The insurer is investing in technology that will help
boost sales when the government compels firms to automatically
enroll employees into a pension plan starting in October.  The stock-market rally in the first quarter, inflows into
the company’s institutional pension business and its absolute
return funds helped boost funds under management, Chief
Financial OfficerJackie Hunt said on a call with reporters this
morning.  The stock  climbed  1.3 percent to 226.9 pence as of 11:32
a.m. in London trading, valuing the company at about 5.3 billion
pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 