-- Sterlite Profit Misses Estimates on Lower Metal Prices
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2012-04-25T14:24:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/sterlite-profit-misses-estimates-on-lower-metal-prices.html
Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd. (STLT) ,
the nation’s biggest copper producer, missed analysts’ profit
 estimates  for a third straight quarter as prices fell and it
paid damages to Asarco LLC for failing to buy the company.  Group  net income  fell 34 percent to 12.8 billion rupees
($244 million) in the three months ended March 31 from 19.3
billion rupees a year earlier, the unit of  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED) 
said today in a statement to the  stock exchanges . The median
profit of 24 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg was 13.3
billion rupees. Sales rose 8 percent to 107.6 billion rupees.  The price of aluminum, used to make products from aircrafts
to beverage cans, averaged 13 percent lower, while copper fell
14 percent in the last quarter on the London Metal Exchange. The
 Indian rupee  averaged 10 percent lower in the period.  Grupo Mexico SAB’s Asarco on Feb. 13 won $82.8 million in a
lawsuit against Sterlite for walking away from an agreement to
buy the company out of bankruptcy. Sterlite blamed a drop in
copper prices for failing to complete the deal.  The demand for metals will improve this fiscal year because
of growth in  emerging markets  like China and  India , Vice
Chairman Navin Agarwal said in an analyst call after the
results. Chinese growth is expected to continue, while Indian
growth may have bottomed out, he said.  Rising Expenses  Sterlite’s total expenses gained 13 percent to 8.3 billion
rupees in the period. The cost of power and fuel jumped 46
percent to 9.9 billion rupees.  Shares of Mumbai-based Sterlite rose 2.1 percent to 107.95
rupees at close of trading in Mumbai. The stock has risen 20
percent this year, compared with an 11 percent increase in the
key Sensitive Index. The results were announced after market
hours.  Losses from exceptional items, including the payout to
Asarco, surged more than 13 times to 4.32 billion rupees in the
quarter, compared with 315.6 million rupees a year earlier.
Income from sources other than its main business fell to 7
billion rupees from 7.46 billion rupees, according to the
statement.  Hindustan Zinc Ltd. (HZ) , the nation’s largest producer of the
metal and a unit of Sterlite, reported a 20 percent decline in
fourth-quarter profit on April 19 because of lower prices. Zinc,
required to rust-proof steel, averaged 16 percent lower in the
last quarter.  Billionaire  Anil Agarwal , who owns the Vedanta group,
offered 170 billion rupees to buy the Indian government’s
remaining stakes in Hindustan Zinc and Bharat Aluminium Co., a
mines ministry official said March 22. Buying the stakes will
give Sterlite control over a combined 964,000 tons of zinc and
lead-producing capacity and a 2 million-ton bauxite mine.  Vedanta Resources plans to combine its publicly traded
Indian units into a new company, the London-based company said
on Feb. 25. Unit  Sesa Goa Ltd. (SESA)  will absorb Sterlite in an all-
stock deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  