-- Sudan Says South Sudan Expels Workers at Pipeline Company
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2012-04-25T10:07:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/sudan-says-south-sudan-expels-workers-at-pipeline-company-1-.html
South  Sudan  expelled 154 Sudanese
employees of  Petrodar Operating Co. , an oil-pipeline operator,
and gave them 72 hours to leave the country, Sudan’s Foreign
Ministry said.  The Sudanese government is contacting its embassy in Juba,
the South Sudanese capital, and the company to ensure the safe
return of its nationals working in the Fulj oilfield, al-Obeid
Murawih, a spokesman for the ministry, said by phone from
Khartoum today. Sudan may take retaliatory measures for the
expulsions, he said.  “This is an arbitrary decision by Juba,” Murawih said.
“We have thousands of southerners working in northern companies
here and we can do the same and deny them visas.”  South Sudan’s president,  Salva Kiir , said yesterday Sudan
“declared war” on his newly independent country by carrying
out aerial bombardments of southern territory. Clashes between
the neighboring countries escalated when  South Sudan  occupied
the disputed border region of Heglig on April 10. South Sudan
announced on April 20 it was withdrawing its forces from the
oil-rich region, while Sudan said its soldiers forced them to
retreat.  The Sudanese government is in the process of lodging a new
complaint to the  United Nations Security Council  and regional
and international organizations over South Sudan’s claim of
ownership of Heglig territory, Murawih said.  Sudanese government spokesman Barnaba Marial Benjamin
didn’t immediately answer his mobile phone, while no one
answered the phone at Petrodar’s office in Juba when called for
comment.  Petrodar’s biggest shareholders are  China ’s state-owned
China National Petroleum Corp. and Kuala Lumpur-based Petroliam
Nasional Bhd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Khartoum via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 