-- U.K. Nationwide Consumer Confidence Increases to Nine-Month High
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-04-25T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/u-k-nationwide-consumer-confidence-increases-to-nine-month-high.html
U.K.  consumer confidence  rose to a
nine-month high in March, according to  Nationwide Building
Society , which said the improvement may not be sustained as the
economy shrinks.  An index of sentiment climbed to 53, the highest since
June, from 44 in February, the Swindon, England-based customer-
owned lender said in an e-mailed report today. A gauge of
consumers’ expectations for the economy jumped 13 points to 73.  The increase in confidence may be temporary after data
yesterday showed the  U.K. economy  unexpectedly contracted 0.2
percent in the first quarter, pushing Britain into its first
double-dip recession since the 1970s. Rising energy prices,
government spending cuts and anemic wage growth are squeezing
U.K. consumers, creating a drag on the recovery.  “With the economy expected to gather pace only slowly, the
improvement in confidence may prove short-lived,” Nationwide
Chief Economist Robert Gardner said. “The sharp falls in
inflation seen at the start of the year are unlikely to be
repeated in the near-term. As a result, the easing price
pressures will be less visible to households.”  A gauge of Britons’ assessment of current economic and
employment conditions rose to 24 in March from 19 in February.
An index of shoppers’ views on whether it’s a good time to make
a  major purchase , such as a house or car, jumped to 86 from 78.  Nationwide also said that the recent increase in the
headline sentiment index “should be kept in perspective” as
the index remains more than 20 points below its long-run
average.  The first-quarter GDP drop was largely due to a slump in
construction, and business surveys this month have pointed to
some strengthening in services and manufacturing activity at the
end of the period.  Retail sales  rose at the fastest pace in more
than a year last month as the warmest March for half a century
boosted purchases of clothing and gardening products and panic
buying lifted auto-fuel demand.  Sales including auto fuel gained 1.8 percent from February,
when they fell 0.8 percent, the  Office for National Statistics 
said on April 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  