-- U.K. Culture Secretary Blames Aide Over News Corp. Contacts
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-04-25T13:46:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/u-k-culture-secretary-blames-aide-over-news-corp-contacts-2-.html
U.K. Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt ,
fighting calls for his resignation over contacts between his
office and  News Corp. (NWSA)  during a takeover bid, blamed an aide for
“unintentionally” going too far as he denied any wrongdoing.  Hunt told lawmakers in London that a News Corp. lobbyist
had exaggerated his contacts with him. Hunt’s adviser,  Adam
Smith , who resigned today, had acted without his knowledge, he
said. He said he couldn’t explain how the lobbyist came to have
advance knowledge of market-sensitive decisions.  Opposition Labour leader  Ed Miliband  earlier told Prime
Minister  David Cameron  he should fire Hunt. The Leveson Inquiry
into media ethics yesterday saw e-mails from 2010 and 2011
showing that Hunt’s office, which was judging whether News Corp.
should be allowed to take full control of  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , had briefed executives at the company on
Hunt’s thinking and decisions before they were made public.  “The crucial question is whether any of those contacts
affected my decision and they did not,” Hunt said in the course
of more than an hour of questions in Parliament. He rejected
suggestions he was a “cheerleader” for News Corp.  Smith quit just over an hour before the culture secretary
stood up, saying in an e-mailed statement he had gone “too
far” in his communications with News Corp. lobbyist Frederic Michel.  Unable to Say  Asked by Peter Bone, a fellow Conservative, to deny his
office had been responsible for leaking decisions to News Corp.,
Hunt said he couldn’t. “I’m not able to come to the House today
and say what the truth was,” the culture secretary replied.  Labour lawmaker  Tom Watson  asked Hunt if he was “seriously
trying to convince the nation that these incriminating e-mails
and texts are all the work of a single rogue adviser?”  Hunt said Parliament should wait for the media ethics
inquiry, led by judge Brian Leveson, to reach its conclusion. He
has asked the probe if he can appear earlier than his current
slot in late May.  Initially, Liberal Democrat Business Secretary Vince Cable
was deciding on the proposed BSkyB takeover. On Dec. 21, 2010,
Cameron removed responsibility for examining the deal from Cable
after undercover journalists recorded the business secretary
saying he had “declared war” on  Rupert Murdoch . The job was
passed to Hunt.  Michel E-Mails  In early 2011, Michel sent  James Murdoch  a series of e-
mails detailing Hunt’s thinking and explaining the stage the
process had got to. Often sent in the evenings, they typically
began: “Just spoke to JH.”  In his sworn statement to the Leveson Inquiry, Michel said
these had in fact been the result of conversations with or  text
messages  from Smith, Hunt’s adviser, and other aides. “It was
my understanding that when they told me something, it was always
on behalf of the minister and after having conferred with him,”
Michel said.  “At no point between Dec. 24, 2010 and the end of July
2011 did I have any direct conversation with Jeremy Hunt
relating to the BSkyB proposal beyond the two formal meetings I
attended,” Michel said. “It was never my intention to imply to
readers of my e-mails that I had had direct access to the
minister.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  