-- U.K. Succumbs to First Double-Dip Recession Since 1970s: Economy
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-04-25T12:26:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/u-k-returns-to-recession-in-first-quarter-on-building-slump.html
The U.K. economy shrank in the
first quarter as Britain slid into its first double-dip
recession since the 1970s, forcing Prime Minister  David Cameron 
to defend his spending cuts in Parliament.  Gross domestic product  fell 0.2 percent from the fourth
quarter of 2011, when it declined 0.3 percent, the  Office for
National Statistics  said today in  London . The median of 40
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was for an increase of 0.1
percent. A technical recession is defined as two straight
quarters of contraction.  As an anti-austerity backlash gains ground in  Europe ,
Cameron described the data as “disappointing” and pledged to
support growth without backtracking on the U.K.’s biggest fiscal
squeeze since World War II. The Bank of  England  is in the final
month of its latest round of economic stimulus and the drop in
output comes as prospects dim in the euro region, Britain’s
biggest export market.  “This isn’t supportive of the fiscal consolidation
program, so the government is likely to be concerned about
that,” said Philip Rush, an economist at Nomura International
in London. “The data were bad, and that supports the view that
the  Bank of England  will do a final 25 billion pounds of
quantitative easing in May.”  Bank of England policy maker  David Miles  had signaled
yesterday that today’s result was possible, saying in an
interview with Bloomberg News that a negative number “wouldn’t
be a great surprise.”  U.K. 10-year gilts advanced immediately after the data were
published before easing again. The yield rose 3 basis points to
2.123 percent as of 1:12 p.m. in London. The pound fell as much
as 0.4 percent, then pared its decline to $1.6116.  Construction Slump  From a  year earlier , the economy was unchanged in the first
quarter. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 31
economists was for 0.3 percent growth from a year earlier.  The quarterly drop in GDP was due to a 3 percent slump in
construction, the most since the first quarter of 2009, and a
0.4 decline in  industrial production . Manufacturing contracted
0.1 percent and services, the largest part of the economy,
expanded by 0.1 percent, boosted by transport, storage and
communication.  The data contrasts with a report today showing confidence
among manufacturers rose to the highest level in two years this
month. The Confederation of British Industry’s quarterly gauge
of factory optimism surged to 22 from minus 25 in January.  Separate surveys this month showed that growth in services,
manufacturing and construction accelerated in March. The British
Chambers of Commerce said the GDP data is likely to be revised
higher by the statistics office.  ‘Underlying Trend’  Surveys “have shown a more positive picture, and we
believe these give a more accurate indication of the underlying
trends,” Chief Economist  David Kern  said in a statement today.
“We think it is likely that the preliminary estimate will be
revised upwards when more information is available.”  The FTSE 100 index rose 0.1 percent today. Still, its 2.6
percent advance this year trails the 4.9 percent increase by
Europe’s Stoxx 600 Index.  Rising energy prices, government spending cuts and anemic
wage growth are squeezing U.K. consumers, creating a drag on the
recovery. Pay growth slowed to 1.1 percent in the three months
through February, less than a third of the  inflation rate . An
extra public holiday in June to mark Queen Elizabeth II’s 60
years on the throne may also depress economic output in the
second quarter.  Thatcher Elected  Britain, the first Group of Seven country to report output
for the first quarter, was hit hard by the financial crisis that
erupted in 2007 and GDP is still 4.3 percent below its pre-
recession peak in early 2008. Only  Japan  and  Italy  are further
behind among G-7 nations.  The last time Britain experienced a double-dip recession,
defined as consecutive quarterly drops in GDP before the economy
had recovered output lost in the previous recession, was 1975.
That year, Labour Prime Minister Harold Wilson was in office and
 Margaret Thatcher  was elected leader of the opposition
Conservatives. U.K. Treasury forecasters and the  International
Monetary Fund  predict the economy will grow 0.8 percent this
year, the same as last year.  The data are “very, very disappointing,” Cameron said in
Parliament today, adding that “I don’t seek to try and excuse
them. There is no complacency at all.” He pledged to stick to
his deficit-cutting plans, saying “the solution to a debt
crisis cannot be more debt.”  ‘Very Tough’  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said the U.K.’s
economic situation is “very tough” and the government
shouldn’t waver on its fiscal plans, which are aimed at
eliminating most of the deficit by 2017.  “The one thing that would make the situation even worse
would be to abandon our credible plan and deliberately add more
borrowing and even more debt,” he said in a statement.  Their Conservative Party has lost public support over last
month’s budget, which voters say helped the rich at the expense
of pensioners and charities, and the handling of a threatened
strike by tanker-truck drivers. The Labour opposition led the
Tories by 41 percent to 33 percent in an ICM Ltd. poll published
yesterday.  In addition to the domestic budget squeeze, Britain’s
recovery is being hampered by unfavorable export conditions.  Euro-area  services and manufacturing  output declined for a
third month in April as the economy struggled to rebound from a
fourth-quarter contraction, according to a report on April 23.
Confidence among executives and consumers in the economic
outlook in the region fell this month, economists in a Bloomberg
survey said before data tomorrow.  BOE Stimulus  The economy may get little further help from the Bank of
England, whose officials have suggested inflation may retreat
less quickly than they forecast two months ago. Only Miles on
the nine-member Monetary Policy Committee sought an expansion in
emergency stimulus this month. He said yesterday in an interview
with Bloomberg News that voting for more bond purchases was
“still the right strategy.”  In  Asia , all 14 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
predict additional easing when the  Bank of Japan (8301)  releases new
inflation forecasts on April 27. Most expect an increase ranging
from 5 trillion yen ($62 billion) to 10 trillion yen.  The U.S. Federal Reserve will release its policy statement
at around 12:30 p.m. today in  Washington , and its forecasts for
 interest rates , growth, inflation and unemployment at 2 p.m.
Policy makers will probably repeat their plan to keep the
benchmark rate low at least through late 2014, economists say.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  