-- U.K. Stocks Advance for Second Day; Vedanta, ARM Climb
-- B y   S r i n i v a s a n   S i v a b a l a n   a n d   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-04-25T15:59:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/u-k-stocks-rise-before-gdp-report-man-group-leads-gains.html
U.K. stocks  advanced for a second
day as mining companies gained and  ARM (ARM)  Holdings Plc climbed
after Apple Inc.’s earnings, outweighing data that showed the
British economy contracted for a second straight quarter.  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED) , the largest copper producer in
India, rallied 4.3 percent for the biggest increase in the  FTSE
100. (UKX)  ARM, which designs chips for Apple’s iPhone and iPad, rose
1.1 percent after the U.S. company reported profit that exceeded
estimates.  Man Group Plc (EMG)  extended yesterday’s rally amid
continued speculation the world’s biggest publicly traded hedge-
fund manager may be a takeover target.  The benchmark FTSE 100 advanced 9.4 points, or 0.2 percent,
to 5,718.89 at the close in London. The gauge has increased 2.6
percent this year as U.S. economic data exceeded forecasts and
the  European Central Bank  moved to support the economy. The FTSE
All-Share Index also added 0.2 percent today, while Ireland’s
ISEQ Index surged 1 percent.  “Apple pulled its usual rabbit out of the hat last night,
smashing expectations for its quarterly earnings, and this has
helped to keep the bulls broadly in charge,” said Yusuf Heusen,
a sales trader at IG Index in London.  The U.K. economy shrank in the first quarter as
construction slumped, pushing Britain into its first double-dip
recession since 1970s. Gross domestic product contracted 0.2
percent from the fourth quarter of 2011, when it shrank 0.3
percent, the Office for National Statistics said. The median of
40 estimates in a Bloomberg survey was for a gain of 0.1
percent. A technical recession is defined as two straight
quarters of contraction.  Miles Policy  Bank of England policy maker  David Miles  said his vote for
more so-called quantitative easing this month still looks
vindicated. Miles was the sole official seeking more stimulus,
after his colleague  Adam Posen  switched his vote and policy
makers said inflation may turn out faster than forecast.  “The weakness of demand, given the amount of spare
capacity in the economy, still made a strategy of having
monetary policy even more expansionary the right one,” Miles
said in an interview in  London  yesterday. “On reflection that
seems to me still the right strategy.”  In the U.S., the Federal Reserve’s policy-setting panel
will probably repeat in a statement today that subdued inflation
and economic slack will result in “exceptionally low”  interest
rates  through at least late 2014, economists said. The statement
is due around 12:30 p.m. in Washington.  About 90 minutes later, the Fed will release policy makers’
forecasts for growth, unemployment, inflation and the
appropriate path of the federal funds rate over the next several
years. Chairman Ben S. Bernanke will hold a press conference at
2:15 p.m.  Mining Companies  A gauge of London-listed mining companies rose 2 percent as
base metals including copper and nickel climbed. Vedanta
advanced 4.3 percent to 1,225 pence.  Fresnillo Plc (FRES)  added 3.4
percent to 1,597 pence.  Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  and  Xstrata
Plc (XTA)  climbed 3.2 percent to 429.2 pence and 3 percent to 1,183
pence, respectively.  ARM advanced 1.1 percent to 537.5 pence. Apple, which uses
chips designed by ARM, climbed in New York trading after
reporting that robust demand for the iPhone in China fueled a 94
percent surge in quarterly profit.  ARM was upgraded to hold from underperform at Jefferies
Group Inc. and to buy from hold at Natixis.  Man Group rose 2.8 percent to 95.2 pence. Analysts at UBS
AG said in a report yesterday that the past year’s share-price
decline makes it a takeover target.  International Consolidated Airlines Group rallied 3.3
percent to 174.1 pence. Chief Executive Officer Willie Walsh
said the company may bring a Gulf airline into the Oneworld
alliance this year and considers Qatar Airways Ltd. to be a top
candidate.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  sank 3 percent to 1,413.5 pence, the
biggest drop in three months. The U.K.’s largest drugmaker
reported first-quarter profit and sales that missed analyst
estimates as revenue declined in Europe.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Srinivasan Sivabalan in London at 
 ssivabalan@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  