-- U.K. Top Court Rejects Lawyer’s Age Discrimination Appeal
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-04-25T10:55:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/u-k-top-court-rejects-lawyer-s-age-discrimination-appeal.html
The U.K. Supreme Court dismissed an
appeal by a lawyer who claimed age discrimination when his  law
firm  forced him to retire on his 65th birthday.  Judge Brenda Hale ruled the partnership contract that
mandated retirement at 65 was justified in this case.  “All businesses will now have to give careful
consideration to what, if any, mandatory retirement rules can be
justified,” she said in a written  judgment .  The case was brought by Leslie Seldon, a partner at
 Clarkson Wright & Jakes Ltd,  forced to retire in 2006. Seldon
sued the firm for age discrimination before an employment
tribunal, which ruled the partnership deed imposing a mandatory
 retirement age  was legitimate.  Seldon’s lawyer Robin Allen didn’t immediately respond to a
call requesting comment.  While rejecting Seldon’s bid for a declaration that he had
been discriminated against, the  Supreme Court  did send the case
back to the employment tribunal to reconsider whether the law
firm’s reasons for requiring retirement at 65 in the partnership
deed were appropriate.  “Seldon is one of the most important cases in employment
law in recent years,” Claire Dawson, a partner at law firm
Russell Jones & Walker, said before the ruling. “If forcing a
partner to retire is justifiable, then employers may use similar
arguments to attempt to justify” forcing workers out even
though the government has decided to abolish mandatory
retirement at 65.  End Stereotypes  Age UK , a charity that was a party in the case, said in a
statement the judgment provided new guidance on the way older
employees should be treated.  “One of the things Age UK set out to achieve was to end
the reliance on stereotyping of older workers, conflating age
with declining ability,” Declan O’Dempsey, the charity’s
lawyer, said in a phone interview. “This firmly establishes
that reliance of such stereotypes is not allowed.”  In another Supreme Court  ruling  on a retirement-related
matter handed down today, a former police employee was found to
have been been indirectly discriminated against when he didn’t
qualify for a promotion because he didn’t have time to complete
the necessary training before he retired.  Terence Homer sued the West Yorkshire police because it
brought in new rules requiring a four-year law degree when he
was three years from retirement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  