-- U.S. Communications Law Seen as Obsolete in Converged Age
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-04-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/u-s-communications-law-seen-as-obsolete-in-converged-age.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  volunteered to help
U.S. legislators rewrite communications law to more fully
account for Internet services that are disrupting markets for
cable, broadcast and telephone providers.  If lawmakers take up the offer, made yesterday by  Paul Misener , an Amazon vice president, during a Senate committee
hearing, the online merchant would join a crowd. Broadcasters,
cable operators and phone companies have an interest in whether
Congress revises the law last updated in 1996.  “There are lots of voices calling for a reconsideration of
the 1996 act,” Rick Boucher, who helped shape communications
policy while a U.S. representative from  Virginia  from 1983 to
last year, said in an interview. “It’s been 15 years and in
that time the Internet has become the medium of choice for the
delivery of information of all kinds -- voice, video and data --
and yet the law has not kept pace.”  Phone, cable and Internet interests have outlined different
visions for changing communications law, with Web companies
emphasizing open-Internet rules and telephone companies opposing
regulation of how they provide  Internet service . Cable companies
have said they want to weaken broadcasters’ ability to extract
payment for using TV channels.  Amazon,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and online television startup Aereo
Inc., which counts  IAC/Interactive Corp. (IACI)  Chairman  Barry Diller 
among its investors, were the focus of the Commerce Committee
hearing that examined how Web-based technology is shifting TV
viewing from traditional models to emerging platforms.  “You’ve got to rewrite the communications act” of 1996,
Diller said. “It’s overdue given the Internet.”  Online Video Popularity  In October 2011, almost 166 million Americans watched video
online, according to testimony submitted by Susan Whiting, vice
chairwoman of the  Nielsen (NLSN)  media measurement company. More than
117 million Americans accessed the Internet through mobile
devices, Whiting said.  “Consumers are finding and accessing their favorite
content on more and more devices,” Whiting said. “Consumers
are saying unequivocally, that online video will continue to
play an increasingly larger role in their media choices.”  Amazon.com, which offers online movies and television
programs, wants to ensure that  Internet-service providers  aren’t
allowed to block it and other Web video platforms, Misener said.
He called for “vigilance” about caps placed on data
consumption by Internet service providers, saying such limits
could hinder competition in the video market.  “Amazon would be happy to assist the committee in any way
we can be helpful, including if the committee were to undertake
a review of the 1996 act,” Misener said.  1996 Law  The 1996 law was written to encourage competition between
traditional providers of services, such as having cable and
phone companies offer voice service, said Boucher, who is now a
Washington-based partner at Sidley Austin.  “It was silent as to the Internet,” Boucher said.  After yesterday’s hearing Senator  Jay Rockefeller , the West
Virginia Democrat who is chairman of the committee, told
reporters that the rapidly evolving communications landscape
“will require legislation.” No telecommunications update will
pass this year, Rockefeller said.  “It’s not a simple business” in part because many devices
and networks are involved, Rockefeller said. “It raises a lot
of questions which we’re not able to legislatively answer at
this point.”  ‘Truly Obsolete’  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , the second-largest U.S. phone
company, considers current laws outdated,  Tom Tauke , an
executive vice president, said in remarks delivered March 20 at
a Washington conference.  “They were written before convergence, before competition
and before consumers had a choice in the communications space,”
Tauke said. “And so they are truly obsolete.”  Randolph May, president of the Rockville, Maryland-based
Free State Foundation that promotes understanding of the free
market and focuses on communications policy, has been calling
for a rewrite of the telecommunications law since at least 2005.  “It takes a long time for anything to get done” in
Congress, May said in an interview. “Sometimes you almost have
to have a near-crisis.”  CTIA-The Wireless Association favors rewriting the statute,
 Steve Largent , president of the trade group, said in an
interview yesterday.  “The tech industry has revolutionized
telecommunications,” Largent said. “It just doesn’t take that
long any more. We’ve totally eclipsed what the ‘96 act did.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  