-- U.S. Should Weigh Changes to Muni Bond Tax, Senator Says
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-04-25T17:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/u-s-should-explore-changes-to-muni-bond-tax-break-senator-says.html
Congress should consider changing
the subsidies awarded to the $3.7 trillion municipal bond market
to ensure that all taxpayers receive the same benefit, said the
U.S. Senate Finance Committee chairman.  Twenty cents of every $1 spent on the tax-exemption for
municipal bonds benefits higher-income investors, said the
chairman, Democrat  Max Baucus , of  Montana , at a hearing today.
Because income from state and local debt isn’t taxed, those in
higher federal tax breaks receive the greatest benefit.  Lawmakers should “consider providing a uniform subsidy for
bondholders,” Baucus said at the hearing in Washington. “A
uniform subsidy would mean each taxpayer receives the same
subsidy regardless of tax bracket.”  State and local-government leaders have pleaded with
Congress to keep the tax-exemption as the federal government
seeks ways to narrow its  budget deficit . Investors are willing
to accept lower returns on municipal bonds because of the tax
break, which holds down the cost of public works projects.  Today’s hearing focused on how an overhaul of the federal
 tax code  could affect state and local governments. Lawmakers
discussed the potential need for Internet companies to collect
sales taxes from customers.  Build America Bonds  Baucus cited the Build America Bonds program, which
provided direct subsidies instead of tax breaks before it
expired at the end of 2010, as an example of how the federal
cost could be spread more evenly. Baucus and other lawmakers at
the hearing didn’t endorse specific changes.  President  Barack Obama  has proposed reviving Build America
Bonds, along with changes to tax breaks for traditional
municipal debt. Top Democratic tax writers in the House have
said Republicans are unfairly excluding Build America Bonds and
benefits for energy manufacturing from a debate over reviving
expired tax provisions.  The potential threat to the tax-exemption given to
investors in state and local-government bonds has been a subject
of speculation on  Wall Street  since 2010, when a commission
appointed by Obama proposed ending it as a way to help cut the
deficit. Obama has also proposed curbing the tax break for top-
earners to limit their ability to push down their overall  tax
rate .  Municipal bond rates have dropped to their lowest in half a
century as the  Federal Reserve  holds down  interest rates , new
bond sales have ebbed, and investors have shifted money to safe
havens.  Bond Yields  Yields on 20-year general-obligation bonds fell to 3.9
percent the week ended April 19, near the lowest since the
1960s, according to a Bond Buyer  index .  Senator  Maria Cantwell , a Democrat from Washington, said
she is concerned that changes to the tax treatment of bonds
could affect utility customers in her region. Senator  Orrin Hatch , the top Republican on the panel, said the president’s
proposal to limit the value of the municipal bond tax break for
those in the top tax bracket would penalize cities and states
with higher interest bills.  “The president’s proposal would increase borrowing costs
for state and local governments,” he said.  Frank Sammartino, the assistant director of tax analysis
for the  Congressional Budget Office , said Obama’s plan would
still leave municipal bonds attractive to top-earners compared
to corporate bonds.  “For most taxpayers, we think it’s not going to have a
very big effect,” he said at the hearing.  Congressional Action  No curbs to the tax break have advanced in Congress, where
there is broad disagreement between Democrats and Republicans
over taxes. No Senators endorsed the outright repeal or proposed
specific curbs at today’s hearing, either.  Any changes to the federal government’s treatment may
influence the municipal  bond market , which is dominated by
individuals seeking tax-free income.  The prospect of eliminating the tax-break has drawn
opposition from groups including the  National League of Cities 
and the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association,
which lobbies for Wall Street banks and investment firms.  More than two dozen groups representing public officials,
bond lawyers, and finance companies sent a letter to the Senate
Finance Committee this week to leave municipal bond income
untaxed. The groups, which included the National League of
Cities and the National Association of State Treasurers, said
the tax break supports state and local governments that oversee
three-quarters of the nation’s infrastructure spending.  “Maintaining the tax-exempt status of municipal bonds is
essential to help our national economy grow, create jobs, and
best serve the constituencies of every community,” the groups
wrote in the April 23 letter in advance of the hearing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in  Washington  at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  