-- U.S. Mad Cow Case May Boost Australian Exports, Group Says
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-04-25T03:07:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/u-s-mad-cow-case-may-boost-australian-exports-group-says-1-.html
A case of mad-cow disease reported
in the U.S. may boost Australian beef exports to  Japan  and  South
Korea , an industry group said.  “We need to see how this affects the Korean and Japanese
markets,” David Byard, executive officer of the  Australian Beef
Association , said by telephone today. “It all depends on how
the Japanese and the Koreans take this.”  Australia last year overtook  Brazil  as the largest shipper
of beef, with its three biggest markets, Japan, the U.S. and
South Korea. The government is monitoring the situation, the
Department of Agriculture said in an e-mailed statement, adding
Australia “does not import beef or beef products from cattle of
U.S. origin.”  The brain-wasting disease has been found in a dairy cow in
central  California , John Clifford, the USDA’s chief
veterinarian, told reporters in  Washington  yesterday. Its meat
did not enter the food chain and the carcass will be destroyed,
Clifford said. South Korea will halt customs clearance of any
new U.S. beef imports, Park Sang Ho, an official at the Asian
nation’s farm ministry, said by phone today.  Japan has no plan to suspend U.S. beef imports “at the
moment” even after the discovery, Minoru Yamamoto, director of
the animal health division at the farm ministry said by phone.  Fourth Case  It was the fourth confirmed case of the disease in the U.S.
cattle herd since the first was discovered in December 2003 in
an animal that came from  Canada . Dozens of countries shuttered
their doors to U.S. shipments following that discovery and
nations including Japan and  China  have maintained some
restrictions ever since.  Losses to livestock producers and meatpackers ranged from
$2.5 billion to $3.1 billion annually from 2004 through 2007,
according to the International Trade Commission.  Australia’s beef and veal exports, valued at A$4.3 billion
($4.4 billion) during fiscal 2011, may increase 1.6 percent next
year as production gains on heavier carcass weights, according
to a March 6  report  from government forecaster the Australian
Bureau of Agricultural and Resource Economics and Sciences.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  