-- U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for April 20 (Text)
-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 2012-04-25T14:38:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-april-20-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  Summary of Weekly Petroleum Data  for the Week Ending April 20, 2012  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged just under 14.5 million
barrels per day during the week ending April 20, 23 thousand
barrels per day above the previous week’s average. Refineries
operated at 84.7 percent of their operable capacity last week.
Gasoline production decreased last week, averaging about 8.8
million barrels per day. Distillate fuel production decreased
last week, averaging nearly 4.2 million barrels per day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged about 8.8 million barrels per
day last week, up by 48 thousand barrels per day from the
previous week. Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports have
averaged 8.9 million barrels per day, 235 thousand barrels per
day above the same four-week period last year. Total motor
gasoline imports (including both finished gasoline and gasoline
blending components) last week averaged 620 thousand barrels per
day. Distillate fuel imports averaged 107 thousand barrels per
day last week. U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding
those in the Strategic Petroleum Reserve) increased by 4.0
million barrels from the previous week. At 373.0 million
barrels, U.S. crude oil inventories are in the upper limit of
the average range for this time of year. Total motor gasoline
inventories decreased by 2.2 million barrels last week and are
in the upper limit of the average range. Both finished gasoline
inventories and blending components inventories decreased last
week. Distillate fuel inventories decreased by 3.1 million
barrels last week and are in the middle of the average range for
this time of year. Propane/propylene inventories increased by
1.1 million barrels last week and are above the upper limit of
the average range. Total commercial petroleum inventories
remained unchanged last week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period have
averaged 18.7 million barrels per day, down by 3.2 percent
compared to the similar period last year. Over the last four
weeks, motor gasoline product supplied has averaged nearly 8.7
million barrels per day, down by 4.2 percent from the same
period last year. Distillate fuel product supplied has averaged
3.8 million barrels per day over the last four weeks, up by 0.1
percent from the same period last year. Jet fuel product
supplied is 0.4 percent lower over the last four weeks compared
to the same four-week period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  