-- U.S. Mad Cow Finding Shows Controls Working, FAO and OIE Say
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-04-25T11:46:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/u-s-mad-cow-finding-shows-controls-working-fao-and-oie-say-1-.html
The U.S. finding of a case of mad
cow disease shows the country’s surveillance system is working,
according to the  United Nations ’ Food & Agriculture Organization
and the World Organisation for  Animal Health .  The case shouldn’t affect the U.S. status of “controlled
risk” for BSE, the Paris-based intergovernmental animal health
group, known by its French acronym OIE, wrote in an e-mailed
statement today.  A cow at a California rendering plant tested positive in a
routine check for the illness, or atypical bovine spongiform
encephalopathy, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  reported
yesterday. The disease didn’t enter the human food chain, said
John Clifford, the USDA’s chief veterinarian.  “This detection demonstrates that the national
surveillance system is efficient,” the OIE said. “This case
should not have implications for the current U.S. risk
categorization.”  The case in a dairy cow is the fourth in the U.S. cattle
herd since the first was discovered in 2003, in an animal that
came from  Canada .  The finding of the disease before it entered the food chain
should reassure importers of U.S. beef, FAO Chief Veterinary
Officer Juan Lubroth said by phone from  Rome  today.  “The fact that the U.S. picked it up before it entered the
food chain and the fact that they were transparent should give
more confidence to the trading partners, not less,” Lubroth
said. “However, I do see that sometimes countries take measures
that are not based on science and that we do not support.”  Quarantine Inspections  South Korea  said it will strengthen quarantine inspections
of U.S. beef after the case.  The finding is a “serious issue” and  Russia  is ready to
take “adequate measures,” Alexei Alekseenko, a spokesman for
Russian food-safety agency Rosselkhoznadzor, said today. Any
decision on curbing U.S. beef imports would be scientifically
grounded, he said.  The OIE is waiting for official notification from the U.S.
on data of the case, the organization said. Samples have been
sent to OIE reference laboratories in the U.K. and Canada for
final confirmation, it said.  Based on USDA statements, the steps taken so far by U.S.
authorities are consistent with OIE standards, the animal health
organization wrote.  “The fact that it was picked up before anything entered
the food chain is significant,” Lubroth said. “It shows that
the surveillance systems in place have done their job.”  Random Tests  Random tests of about 40,000 cows a year, less than 0.1
percent of the U.S. cattle herd, aren’t enough to ensure
diseased cows don’t get into the  food supply , Michael Hansen, a
staff scientist at Yonkers, New York-based advocacy group
 Consumers Union , said yesterday.  “All downers are tested, but not all animals that enter
the food chain,” Lubroth said, using a term for cattle too weak
to stand up. “In an ideal world you’d be testing everything but
that is not really logistically possible or financially sound.
The testing is likely sufficient.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Deane at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  