-- U.S. REIT Loans Surge on Volatile Bond Market, CreditSights says
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   I d z e l i s
-- 2012-04-25T17:11:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/u-s-reit-loans-surge-on-volatile-bond-market-creditsights-says.html
Banks seeking high-quality
commercial loans and a volatile  bond market  have driven a surge
in lending to U.S. real estate investment trusts, according to
CreditSights Inc.  “The volume of new REIT unsecured term loans originated
through mid-April this year has already surpassed all of last
year’s record,” Craig Guttenplan, an analyst with New York-
based CreditSights, said in a research note today.  The pace of borrowing among REITs has picked up since last
summer as investors are more comfortable lending to a portfolio
of assets rather than against individual properties, according 
to the report. CreditSights sees unsecured loans becoming a more
prevalent source of financing for smaller trusts and weaker
credits because the debt is cheaper than bonds and has more
flexible terms.  “The flexibility around a repayment date and ability to
extend loans are particularly important since the bond market
can be fickle and borrowers can potentially be shut out for more
than just a brief period,” Guttenplan said.  The liquidity “crunch” after the failure of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008 underscored the risk
REITs face refinancing bonds, and the importance of maintaining
liquidity because their dividend requirements limit ability to
retain  cash flow , according to CreditSights.  General Growth
Properties Inc. (GGP) , the Chicago-based shopping mall owner, went
bankrupt in April 2009 after it failed to refinance debt.  Volatile Bond Market  A volatile bond market in the third quarter drove the
recent rise in term loan lending to REITs, along with their
“steady need for capital” to make new investments and fund
debt refinancing, according to the report. Bank demand for
“high quality commercial loans” is also behind the increased
pace of borrowing among REITs, even as commercial real estate
loans for individual properties continue to shrink, according to
the report.  “Weaker credits have generally seen a significant
borrowing cost advantage in the bank loan market versus the bond
market in the current environment,” Guttenplan wrote in the
report.  He cautioned that “one disadvantage” for REIT bondholders
is that loan covenants are typically tighter than in bond
indentures and may be more easily beached.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Idzelis in New York at 
 cidzelis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  