-- U.S. Will Ease Rather Than Remove Myanmar Sanctions
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-04-25T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/u-s-will-ease-rather-than-remove-myanmar-sanctions.html
The U.S. will only ease sanctions
against Myanmar, not lift them, a U.S. official said as
Republican lawmakers warned against engaging too quickly with
the South Asian nation.  “There’s no intention to lift sanctions,” said Assistant
Secretary of State  Kurt Campbell  in remarks yesterday to a House
Foreign Affairs subcommittee. “In certain prescribed areas, we
would ease sanctions,” Campbell said, adding that the
administration would work closely with lawmakers in doing so.  Campbell was testifying on the increasing U.S. engagement
with Myanmar, officially still known as Burma under U.S. policy.
Since a new government took power in March 2011 and initiated
steps to liberalize after five decades of military rule,
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  traveled there in December.
This month, Clinton announced that sanctions on financial
transactions by non-profit groups would be relaxed to support
humanitarian work inside the country.  The European Union and  Australia  recently announced they
will ease sanctions, steps that drew criticism from several
Republicans on the panel who argued that there has been little
fundamental change.  “The rule of law in  Burma  continues to be non-existent,”
said the chairman of the subcommittee on  Asia  and the Pacific,
Illinois Republican Representative Donald Manzullo. “Bribery
and cronyism rule the day.”  If the U.S. lifts sanctions, “the people of Burma will see
next to nothing,” Manzullo said. “A generation of efforts by
human rights champions will be wasted. We must not let this
happen.”  North Korea Ties  Lawmakers raised the issue of Myanmar’s close ties to North
Korea, which is threatening to conduct a nuclear test
imminently. Representative Ed Royce, a California Republican,
said the April 1 voting that gave opposition icon  Aung San Suu Kyi  and her party 43 out of 45 seats only covered less than
seven percent of the legislature.  “That is still a small, small percentage, a sliver,”
Royce said. “Progress this is, but progress can be quickly
reversed.”  Campbell said work with the nation would happen in a slow
and calibrated way.  “Although we assess this nascent opening as real and
significant, we also believe it is fragile and reversible,”
Campbell told the committee. “We need to carefully calibrate
our approach to encourage continued progress.”  Limited Reforms  Campbell said that the reform efforts haven’t extended far
beyond the capital and major cities. Fighting continues between
the government and ethnic minority groups, and reports of human
rights violations persist, Campbell said.  “Much more needs to be done” with unconditional releases
of political prisoners, on ending hostilities in ethnic minority
areas, on advancing civil society, on abandoning unfair laws and
writing new ones, he said.  Campbell also said that the U.S. is pushing the nation to
end proliferation activities and seeks “a full discontinuance,
on the military side” of its ties with  North Korea , Campbell
said. “Countries are judged by the company they keep and we
think that is extremely important,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  