-- U.S. ‘Snapback’ Helps Apple to 3M Beat Earnings Estimates
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2012-04-25T12:42:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/u-s-snapback-helps-apple-to-3m-beat-earnings-estimates.html
U.S. companies from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  to
 3M Co. (MMM)  are surpassing earnings estimates at the highest rate in
two years as economic growth at home helps drive demand and
counter a drag from Europe.  Profit has outpaced forecasts for 82 percent of  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  companies that have reported in the earnings
cycle, which if it holds would be the highest rate since 2010’s
first quarter. The 12 percent average  jump  before today topped
the 0.6 percent gain analysts projected as the bulk of reporting
began April 10, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The domestic economy is faring far better than people
thought and that, even in the face of Europe and the slowdown in
the emerging world, is blowing away estimates,” said  Jim Paulsen , chief investment strategist for Well Capital
Management, which oversees about $333 billion.  Profits running ahead of forecasts may help ease investor
concern that a shrinking economy in Europe and slower growth in
 China  will weigh down earnings this year.  Eaton Corp. (ETN) , the Cleveland-based producer of circuit
breakers and truck parts, beat earnings projections as
construction and vehicle sales rebounded, said Chief Executive
Officer Sandy Cutler in an interview.  “What we’ve seen is a pretty good snapback,” Cutler said,
referring to U.S. economic growth since the financial crisis of
2008. “The industrial side of the economy had a very difficult
downturn.”  Outpaced Forecasts  All 10 industry groups in the  S&P 500  delivered better-
than-forecast results, with financial, materials and technology
companies leading with a positive rate of more than 11 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. So far about 168
companies have reported earnings.  Boeing Co. (BA) ,  Corning Inc. (GLW)  and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  all
reported results that beat analysts’ estimates today. Chicago-
based Boeing, the world’s biggest aerospace company, delivered
more commercial jets while pushing production to record levels.
First-quarter earnings rose to $1.22 a share, excluding some
items, Boeing said, exceeding the average prediction by 29
cents.  Apple, the world’s largest company by market value, helped
drive the earnings growth rate for S&P companies that have
reported to 12 percent yesterday from 6.5 percent the previous
day. The company yesterday said its fiscal second-quarter profit
almost doubled to $11.6 billion, reflecting demand for the
iPhone in China and purchases of a new version of the iPad.
Earnings per share outstripped estimates by 23 percent.  Among other technology bellwethers,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the
largest software maker, last week reported higher-than-expected
corporate purchases of computers, while  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) ,
the biggest maker of analog chips, earlier this week indicated
robust demand for a range of electronics.  ‘Operational Discipline’  3M, the maker of Post-it Notes and fuel system tuneup kits,
posted earnings per share that beat analysts’ estimates by 10
cents, helped by rising domestic auto and industrial demand.  “The Americas were strong,” Chief Executive Officer Inge Thulin said yesterday. “Asia-Pacific was somewhat slower and
Western Europe held its own with very good operational
discipline.”  Honeywell International Inc. (HON) , maker of products from flight
controls to work boots, raised its 2012 forecast after posting
quarterly profit that beat analysts’ estimates on demand for
aircraft parts and energy technology.  General Electric Co. (GE)  beat
earnings per share predictions by a cent.  U.S. retail sales, vehicle purchases and even housing
starts have helped drive the economy and earnings, according to
Paulsen, based in Minneapolis.  Budget Cuts  The U.S economy may expand 2.3 percent this year, up from
1.7 percent in 2011, according to the median of 74 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. The euro area is forecast to shrink 0.4
percent and China’s growth is expected to slow to 8.4 percent.  The S&P 500 Index has gained 9.1 percent since the end of
2011. It gained 12 percent in the first three months of 2012,
the biggest first-quarter gain since 1998.  Companies had tamped down expectations because of the
difficulty in predicting how sales would be affected by budget
cuts in  Europe  and a Chinese economy that posted its slowest
pace of growth in 11 quarters, said David Sowerby, a Bloomfield
Hills, Michigan-based portfolio manager at Loomis Sayles & Co.  “What we’re seeing in the first quarter is inordinately
high,” Sowerby, whose firm oversees about $160 billion, said in
a telephone interview. “That’s primarily a reflection that
companies have been more conservative in their guidance.”  With about a third of companies reporting, Paulsen said
he’s optimistic earnings will maintain their positive track.  “A legacy of the great 2008 crisis is that it’s left us
feeling that things just can’t be this good.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Miller at 
 kmiller@bloomberg.net  