-- Huawei Expects Sales to Rise 20% This Year on Smartphones
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-25T10:49:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/huawei-expects-sales-to-rise-20-this-year-on-smartphones.html
Huawei Technologies Co.,  China ’s
largest maker of phone equipment, will boost research spending
by 20 percent this year to fuel an expansion into smartphones
and cloud computing, the acting chief executive officer said.  Spending will increase to $4.5 billion from $3.76 billion
last year, Eric Xu Zhijun said at Huawei’s annual analyst day at
its headquarters in Shenzhen today. The company disclosed this
week that Xu is one of three rotating CEOs serving six-month
terms. Xu’s rotation began this month.  Ren Zhengfei, Huawei’s founder and a former member of
China’s military, and the co-CEOs are increasing the company’s
focus on consumer mobile devices and business computing services
after profit was cut by half in 2011. Huawei expects sales to
increase as much as 20 percent this year amid demand from
carriers and for its smartphones, Controller C.T. Johnson said.  “We have to expand our investment in research and
development, and improve our innovation,” Xu said at the
conference.  The company’s chipset-making ability is a key advantage and
it can make money from its smartphone offerings, Xu said.  Profit fell to 11.6 billion yuan ($1.8 billion) in 2011,
compared with 24.7 billion yuan a year earlier, Huawei reported
April 23. Profit dropped as the company spent more on research
and development, global expansion of new businesses targeting
sales of consumer devices including smartphones, and computer
services for businesses.  Rotating CEOs  Sales rose 11.7 percent to 203.9 billion yuan ($32 billion)
in 2011, the company reported this week.  In addition to Xu, Deputy Chairmen Guo Ping and Ken Hu Houkun are also part of the rotating CEO pool, spokesman Ross Gan said in an April 23 interview. Ren, 67, retains the titles
of CEO and deputy chairman of Huawei, according to the company’s
annual report released the same day.  Huawei disclosed the members of its senior leadership team
and board of directors for the first time in April 2011 after
concerns were raised in markets including the U.S., where Ren’s
military background has been cited by lawmakers as a potential
security risk in regards to Huawei’s expansion.  The U.S. House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence
began a probe in November of whether Huawei poses a security
threat.  Australia ’s government also said Huawei wouldn’t be allowed
to bid for work on its national broadband network because of
security concerns.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  