-- Lufthansa Finance Chief Quits After 22 Years for Haniel
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-04-25T13:44:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/lufthansa-finance-head-gemkow-to-leave-after-22-years-for-haniel.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  Chief
Financial Officer Stephan Gemkow will leave the airline to take
over as chief executive officer of Franz Haniel & Cie GmbH,
ending a 22-year career at  Europe ’s second-biggest airline.  Gemkow’s appointment at Haniel must still be approved by
the company’s supervisory board, Haniel spokesman Dietmar
Bochert said by telephone. Lufthansa’s supervisory board will
meet May 7 to discuss Gemkow’s departure and consider potential
replacements, the Cologne, Germany-based carrier said in a
separate statement today.  Since becoming CFO in June 2006, Gemkow administered a
cost-saving program between 2008 and 2011 that eliminated 1
billion euros ($1.3 billion) in expenses. Another 1.5
billion-euro profit improvement plan was announced in February.  “It’s clearly a loss, he’s a very good manager,” said
 Juergen Pieper , a Frankfurt-based Bankhaus Metzler analyst.
“Conversely, the big theme at the moment is the restructuring
program, and we all know that it’s the chief executive officer
who’s in the driving seat there.”  After spells as area sales chief in the U.S., head of
 investor relations  and senior vice president of corporate
finance, the 52 year old served as finance head at the cargo
unit for two years before assuming his current role.  Making Decisions  Current Haniel CEO Juergen Kluge said in November that he
will not extend his contract at the company when it expires in
December. It is as yet undecided when Gemkow will leave
Lufthansa, Claudia Lange, a Frankfurt-based spokeswoman for the
carrier, said by telephone.  “He might not always have made the right decisions, but
many of them were good,” said Frankfurt-based Equinet analyst
 Jochen Rothenbacher , who has a “hold” rating on Lufthansa
shares. “When the CFO leaves a DAX company because he has found
something better, it clearly demonstrates that something is not
going quite right with the development of the business.”  Haniel is a holding company whose investments include 50.01
percent of  Metro AG (MEO) ,  Germany ’s biggest retailer, and 54.6
percent of Celesio AG, Europe’s largest drug wholesaler,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  