-- Ukrain Says Hlushchenko Paintings Missing From Cabinet
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2012-04-25T14:10:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/ukrain-says-hlushchenko-paintings-missing-from-cabinet.html
Two paintings by Mykola
Hlushchenko, which were given to the Ukrainian government to
hang in the Cabinet building in 2001, are missing and were
replaced by forgeries, the National Art Museum said.  The Kiev, Ukraine-based institute, which had lent the
paintings to the government of former President Leonid Kuchma,
urged authorities to open a criminal probe after it turned out
the art works hanging on display were copies, it said in a
 statement  on its website today. The disappearance was first made
public by museum officials on March 29, prompting tests to
verify the claim.  “The results of chemical expertise showed that two
paintings are copies of Hlushchenko,” a Ukrainian Soviet-era
artist, according to a  statement  by experts from the museum and
the National Science and Restoration Center posted today on the
Culture Ministry’s website. The copies were made after 2000, the
experts said.  Vitaly Tytych, an attorney for the National Art Museum,
said museum officials alerted the Prosecutor General’s Office a
year ago to the possibility that four works were missing. Two of
the original paintings were recovered and returned to the museum
in August, while the Prosecutor General’s Office in a letter
dated January declined to open the probe, Tytych said.  Hlushchenko was born in 1901 in eastern Ukraine. He served
in the Russian army fighting communists in 1919, was taken
prisoner, escaped from a camp in  Poland  and made his way to
 Germany , where he entered the Berlin Academy of Art in 1920.  Soviet Spy  Hlushchenko moved to Paris in 1925 and soon started to work
as a Soviet spy, according to his official biography on the
museum’s website. His works have been exhibited in some of the
most prestigious galleries of Paris, including the Salon
d’Automne, the Salon des Independants, and the Salon des
Tuileries.  He moved to Moscow in 1936, then left for Germany again on
a spy mission in 1940, organizing a Soviet exhibition in Berlin
and German exhibition in Moscow as a cover, according to his
biography.  Joachim von Ribbentrop, who was foreign minister under
 Adolf Hitler ’s Nazi regime, attended Hlushchenko’s exhibition
and presented him an album of Hitler’s paintings, who praised
Hlushchenko for his talent, according to Roksolana Halych, an
art historian. Hlushchenko died in 1977.  “Hlushchenko is a famous Ukrainian artist,” Maryna
Skyrda, the deputy director at the museum, which has more than
more than 300 paintings, said by phone. “While socialist
realism was the main dominant style, Hlushchenko remains
himself, attaining the glory of a French-like painter.”  Museum Director Anatoliy Melnyk was fired by Culture
Minister Mykhaylo Kulinyak on April 5 because of declining
attendance in recent years.  Kulinyak appointed his adviser, Tetyana Myronova, the owner
of a private gallery and the wife of businessmen and politician
Valeriy Myronov, to run the National Museum of Arts until a new
director is appointed by May 18.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  