-- Hungary May Take ‘Major Step’ on Bailout, Citigroup Says
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-04-25T09:18:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/hungary-may-take-major-step-on-bailout-citigroup-says.html
The European Commission is
discussing a compromise proposal by Hungarian Prime Minister
 Viktor Orban , aimed at starting talks on a bailout.  Orban asked the European Union and the  International
Monetary Fund  for aid in November as the forint fell to a record
low and the country’s debt grade was cut to junk. Commissioners
headed by President Jose Manuel Barroso are discussing Hungary
at a meeting that started at 10 a.m. in Brussels.  The EU has blocked Hungary’s request over concern that
Orban’s concentration of power in the past two years undermined
the independence of state institutions including the central
bank. The premier is seeking to unblock the talks without fully
adjusting the country’s laws to meet EU norms. The country has
moved “a lot closer” to starting talks, Orban said after
meeting Barroso yesterday.  The commission “may deliver a major step towards starting
talks,”  Eszter Gargyan , a Budapest-based economist at  Citigroup
Inc. (C) , said in an e-mailed report today. Yesterday’s comments
suggest that “both parties have become more flexible, which may
deliver unexpected progress.”  The forint advanced 0.8 percent to 291.86 per euro at 11:18
a.m. in Budapest, its strongest in almost a month.The currency
dropped 15 percent in the second half of last year, the most in
the world, before paring losses after the Cabinet pledged Jan. 5
to reach a quick deal on an IMF loan.  The government’s benchmark 10-year bonds jumped, cutting
yields 21 basis points to 8.586 percent, following a 22 basis
point decline yesterday and the lowest yield since March 2.  ‘Essentially Surmounted’  Obstacles to talks have “essentially been surmounted,”
Orban said yesterday. Barroso was “satisfied” with Orban’s
commitment to changing the central bank law, spokesman Cezary
Lewanowicz said after the meeting.  The Hungarian government submitted amendments to the
central bank law on April 17, heeding some of the commission’s
concerns while ignoring a European Central Bank opinion on what
the government needs to do to ensure monetary-policy
independence. The ECB said April 5 that “serious concerns”
remained about  Hungary ’s central-bank law.  Orban is pushing for a compromise as the EU’s attention is
focused on the struggle to restore confidence in the euro area.
 Germany , the largest country contributor to euro-area bailouts,
is facing growing resistance from traditional allies to its
anti-crisis prescriptions as a $1 trillion firewall and
unlimited ECB loans to the region’s lenders fail to stop the
turmoil from threatening Spain and  Italy .  ‘Blinked First’  “Ultimately the EC seems to have blinked first,” Tim Ash,
head of emerging market research at  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc  in  London , said in an e-mail yesterday. “The apparent
change of heart on the part of the EC probably reflects a
combination of the changes/concessions made by the Hungarian
government, but also by the broader context of a
continued/deepening in the eurozone periphery crisis, and
perhaps limited appetite for another potential crisis in an EU
member state.”  Hungary’s  gross domestic product  may contract 0.6 percent
this year, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development said on March 13. The commission forecasts the
economy will shrink 0.1 percent, the only one of the bloc’s non-
euro members expected to not grow this year. The government
expects the economy to expand 0.1 percent in 2012 and 1.6
percent in 2013.  Budget Measures  The government this week said it will introduce new taxes
and cut spending to meet  deficit  targets required to unlock EU
grants. The Cabinet plans additional savings of 150 billion
forint ($680 million) this year and 600 billion forint in 2013
on top of measures announced last year.  Hungary has been on the EU’s excessive-deficit list since
joining the bloc in 2004 and risks losing funds in 2013 if it
fails to show it can sustainably rein in its shortfall. The
country can “safely” meet its deficit targets of 2.5 percent
of GDP in 2012 and 2.2 percent in 2013, the  Economy Ministry 
said on April 23.  Orban won a two-thirds majority in parliament in 2010 that
allowed him to unilaterally change the constitution and reduce
the power of independent institutions, raising objections from
the EU, the IMF, the U.S. and the  United Nations .  Ruling-party lawmakers have ousted the chief justice of the
 Supreme Court  and the data-protection commissioner, narrowed the
jurisdiction of the  Constitutional Court , replaced an
independent fiscal council with one dominated by the members
nominated by the ruling party and chose a party member to lead
the State Audit Office.  ‘Total Takeover’  Hungary’s bailout talks were blocked in December on EU and
IMF concern about a new central bank regulation, which the
Magyar Nemzeti Bank President Andras Simor had called a “total
takeover” of the institution. The EU later expanded its
objections to include the judiciary and the data-protection
agency.  The government agreed to scrap an option to demote the
central bank president if the monetary authority is combined
with the financial regulator. The amendments don’t address the
EU’s concern for a 75 percent cut in Simor’s salary or ECB
objections to the planned enlargement of the rate-setting
Monetary Council.  The government also submitted amendments to Parliament on
the judiciary, reducing the power of the new head of the court
system. On the data-protection authority, parliament, where
Orban’s lawmakers have a two-thirds majority, has approved
changes limiting the prime minister’s influence over the firing
of the independent commissioner. The change failed to address EU
objections over the removal of the commissioner last year.  Court Order  The EU executive on March 7 took a formal step toward
seeking a court order to require Hungary to redraft laws on the
judiciary and data-protection agency and asked for more
information on planned changes to a new central bank law.  Orban said he tried to convince Barroso yesterday to allow
bailout talks to proceed even if he maintained reservations
about some of the changes in Hungary.  “Disputes within the EU need to be separated from
financing packages,” Orban told reporters in Brussels
yesterday. “Linking the two may be justified in peace time but
only makes things more difficult in hard times.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  