-- Hungary Wins EU Go-Ahead for Aid Talks as Economy Teeters
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-04-25T14:30:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/hungary-wins-eu-go-ahead-for-aid-talks-as-economy-teeters.html
Hungary  won the go-ahead from the
European Commission to pursue a  financial-aid package  after
Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  scaled back attempts to exert
control over the central bank.  Five months after Orban pleaded for a bailout, the European
Union executive cleared the way for the start of talks on a
joint program from the EU and the  International Monetary Fund  to
shore up the recession-threatened country’s finances, currently
saddled with a junk credit rating.  The EU is “ready today to enter into the negotiations on
financial aid that Hungary asked for,” commission spokesman
Olivier Bailly told reporters in Brussels today. The next step
is to examine the “modalities of these discussions,” he said.  Hungary’s currency rallied the most in three years since
yesterday and bonds rose on expectations that the EU, battling a
flare-up of the debt crisis in the euro area, would seek to halt
the spread of economic distress by allowing Orban’s government
to tap aid.  The forint advanced 2.1 percent to 288.2 per euro at 3:00
p.m. in Budapest, extending its two-day advance to 3.8 percent,
the most since April 2009. The government’s benchmark 10-year
bonds jumped, cutting yields 60 basis points to 8.2 percent.  ‘Like No Tomorrow’  “Everyone is closing short positions like there’s no
tomorrow,”  Daniel Bebesy , who helps oversee $1.5 billion,
mostly in Hungarian  government bonds  at Budapest Fund
Management, said by phone. “We had been pessimistic about the
outlook for an IMF deal. Now it seems the rally may continue.”  Orban, a student leader during Hungary’s transition from
communism to democracy now in his second stint as prime
minister, was the focus of the Brussels-Budapest clash. Back in
power since 2010, he has met with criticism for using a two-
thirds majority in parliament to skew Hungary’s system of checks
and balances in his party’s favor.  While Orban bowed to some European demands to amend a law
that extended government oversight over the Hungarian central
bank, the  European Central Bank  on April 5 said it still has
“serious concerns” about possible political meddling with
monetary policy.  Orban promised “additional commitments and
clarifications” on the central bank regulation, the commission
said in a statement today, adding that it would close the case
once the changes are adopted by the Hungarian Parliament.  ‘Satisfied to Acknowledge’  The government pledged to the European Commission not to
name an additional vice president to the  Magyar Nemzeti Bank ,
nor expand the rate-setting Monetary Council until central bank
President Andras Simor’s term ends in 2013, Tamas Fellegi, the
country’s chief negotiator for a bailout, told reporters in
Budapest today.  Orban’s administration is ready to go to court on prior
objections to a reduction of Simor’s salary and the oath the
governor is required to take, Fellegi said, adding that he has
no indication so far on whether the commission will file a
lawsuit.  The bank “is satisfied to acknowledge that the government
made guarantees in the interest of central bank independence in
line with the EU treaty,” it said in a statement today.  Adopting Changes  Hungary can start financial aid talks with the EU and the
IMF once the pledged changes are adopted, Gyula Pleschinger,
state secretary at the  Economy Ministry , told reporters today in
Budapest.  An accord may be concluded by the third quarter of this
year,  Eszter Gargyan , a Budapest-based economist at Citigroup
Inc., said in an e-mail today.  Orban only went part of the way to meeting calls to rewrite
laws that the EU said give his ruling party too much authority
over the appointment of judges and the independent data-
protection commissioner. The commission, the EU’s executive,
will appeal to the  EU’s supreme court  to force Hungary to fix
those laws.  Orban made his case to  Jose Barroso , the commission’s
president, in Brussels yesterday. He told reporters afterwards
that obstacles to aid talks have “essentially been
surmounted.”  ‘Limited Appetite’  European consent for the talks “probably reflects a
combination of the changes/concessions made by the Hungarian
government, but also by the broader context of a
continued/deepening in the euro-zone periphery crisis, and
perhaps limited appetite for another potential crisis in an EU
member state,” Tim Ash, head of emerging-market research at
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  in  London , said in an e-mail
yesterday.  An EU member since 2004, Hungary pushed its  budget deficit 
below the bloc’s limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product
only once, in 2011, thanks to the onetime nationalization of
private pension funds. In March, EU finance ministers voted to
suspend 495 million euros ($655 million) in regional subsidies
as of next year unless Hungary cuts the deficit.  Hungary can “safely” meet its deficit targets of 2.5
percent of GDP in 2012 and 2.2 percent in 2013, the Economy
Ministry said on April 23. The government is counting on
economic growth of 0.1 percent in 2012, at odds with an
 Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development  forecast
of a 0.6 percent contraction.  The government said this week it will introduce new taxes
and cut spending to meet  deficit  targets required to unlock EU
grants. The Cabinet plans additional savings of 150 billion
forint ($680 million) this year and 600 billion forint in 2013
on top of measures announced last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net 
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  