-- UMC Net Beats Estimates, Sales to Climb on Mobile Chips
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-04-25T07:57:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/united-micro-profit-beats-estimates-on-smartphone-chip-demand.html
United Microelectronics Corp. (2303) , the
world’s second-largest contract maker of chips, posted profit
that  beat analyst estimates  and forecast a jump in shipments
amid rising demand for mobile devices and consumer electronics.  First-quarter  net income  fell 70 percent to NT$1.34 billion
($45 million), from NT$4.48 billion a year earlier, the Hsinchu,
Taiwan-based company said in a statement today. Profit surpassed
the NT$921 million average of 14 analysts’  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  United Microelectronics expects prices to climb later in
the year as it increases production at its more advanced
factories after rival  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. (2330) 
said it has fully booked its best production technology.
Shipments and revenue will climb this quarter, driven by demand
for chips used in smartphones.  “We are investing heavily,” Chief Executive Officer Sun Shih-wei said at an investors’ conference today. “As our
advanced leading edge technologies like 28 nanometer and 40
nanometer start to bear fruit, average prices will rise.”  One nanometer, equal to one billionth of a meter, measures
the size of connections within a chip. A lower number implies
more advanced technology, allowing semiconductors to be smaller
and more powerful.  Unconsolidated sales dropped 16 percent to NT$23.8 billion.
United Microelectronics  shares  rose 1 percent to NT$14.90 at the
close in Taipei trading before the earnings announcement. The
stock has advanced 17 percent this year,  outpacing  the 6.9
percent gain in the benchmark Taiex index and the 11 percent
increase by Taiwan Semiconductor shares.  Shipments to Climb  Shipments this quarter will climb about 15 percent while
average price per wafer will be little changed from the prior
period, United Microelectronics said in the statement today.
Factory usage will be in the low 80 percent range compared to 71
percent in the first quarter, it said.  The shipments and price forecasts indicate sales growth of
15 percent from the first quarter to about NT$27.3 billion,
according to Bloomberg calculations. That’s higher than the
NT$26.7 billion average of 15 analysts’  estimates .  Qualcomm (QCOM)  Inc., the world’s largest maker of chips for
mobile phones, can’t get enough supply from its existing
manufacturer and is seeking additional output, Chief Executive
Officer  Paul Jacobs  said in an interview last week.  Taiwan Semiconductor, which began mass production of chips
using 28-nanometer technology in the third quarter of last year,
is fully booked at that facility, spokeswoman Elizabeth Sun said
this month. United Microelectronics will begin 28-nanometer
manufacturing from the third quarter of this year, spokesman
Richard Yu said April 20.  Qualcomm Orders  Qualcomm, which counts Taiwan Semiconductor as its primary
supplier, will give orders to United Microelectronics for the
28-nanometer technology from the second half, boosting the
Taiwanese company’s revenue, Randy Abrams, who rates the stock
outperform at Credit Suisse Group, wrote in a report this month.
The drag on earnings from Texas Instruments’ exit from baseband
chips, which connect phones to networks, is almost over, and
will help United Microelectronics later this year, he wrote.  Gross margin , a key measure of profitability which tracks
sales less the cost of goods sold, will be in the low 20 percent
range in the second quarter, compared with 19.1 percent in the
first quarter, the company said.  Dividend Payout  The chipmaker plans to pay a  dividend  of NT$0.5 per share
in cash for 2011 earnings, a payout ratio of about 60 percent
and in line with the payout level of the past two years, it
said. It also plans to ask shareholders for approval to sell as
much as NT$20 billion in  debt  and as many as 1.29 billion
shares, according to an exchange filing today.  While the company has no plan to issue new shares, it’s
asking shareholders for approval so it can act if a suitable
strategic investor is found, Chief Financial Officer Liu Chitung
said today.  United Microelectronics maintained its 2012 capital
expenditure plan of $2 billion after Taiwan Semiconductor raised
its budget by at least 20 percent to more than $7.3 billion.
Taiwan Semiconductor will report earnings and provide guidance
tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  