-- US Airways Said to Approach AMR Bondholders on Merger
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-04-25T20:59:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/us-airways-said-to-approach-amr-bondholders-on-merger.html
US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  is targeting
 AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s unsecured creditors committee to build support for a
possible takeover bid for bankrupt  American Airlines  after
winning the backing of the carrier’s biggest unions.  Agreements with the labor groups were a “big step” as US
Airways progresses from the unions to the creditor panel and
eventually to AMR’s board, Chief Executive Officer Doug Parker
said today on a conference call with analysts and investors.  “We are eager to demonstrate to the creditors of AMR that
our plan would result in higher returns than the AMR stand-alone
strategy,” Parker said. “We’re highly confident the value
created by our two companies is very large relative to the value
of a stand-alone AMR.”  While formal meetings haven’t been held, talks began last
week with bondholders of  Fort Worth , Texas-based AMR, two people
familiar with the matter said.  US Airways  rose 3.1 percent to
$9.60 at the close in New York, as a rally after Parker spoke
sent the shares to a sixth gain in eight trading days.  Parker didn’t say when Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways
might make an approach to AMR, which has said it prefers to
remain an independent airline while in court protection. CEO  Tom Horton  has said the  third-biggest  U.S. carrier would prefer to
exit Chapter 11 and then consider possible combinations.  Creditors Committee  US Airways’ merger efforts were backed last week by three
unions at American, representing pilots, flight attendants, and
mechanics and bag handlers. Each group is on AMR’s nine-seat
creditors committee, so support from two more members would give
US Airways a majority.  “If they can line up support from unions, bondholders and
unsecured creditors, I think they can get themselves awfully
close to what would amount to a hostile takeover,” Max Newman,
a bankruptcy attorney at  Butzel Long  in  Bloomfield Hills ,
 Michigan , said in an interview. “They’re certainly being very
strategic and creative about how they’re going about it.”  The panel has a voice in any major decisions made while a
company restructures in bankruptcy. Bondholders are represented
on the committee by Manufacturers & Traders Trust,  M&T Bank
Corp. (MTB) ’s Wilmington Trust and  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. 
Spokesmen for the banks declined yesterday to discuss US
Airways’ initial overtures or didn’t return calls seeking
comment.  Boeing’s View  Boeing Co. (BA) , which also sits on the panel, supports American
“emerging from this thing as a stronger airline,” CEO Jim McNerney said on a conference call today. If the carrier and a
merger partner eventually decide on a tie-up, “we’ll support
that as well.”  AMR’s 9.75 percent notes due August 2021 jumped 21.5 cents
to 45 cents on the dollar at 9:51 a.m. in  New York , according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting service of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority. US Airways’ 7.1 percent notes due
April 2021 rose 0.5 cent to 103.75 cents on the dollar. The
yield fell to 6.54 percent.  AMR probably will consider a merger as part of its
bankruptcy case because stakeholders will want to ensure they
are getting the highest possible value, according to a financial
adviser for the airline, Rothschild Inc.’s David Resnick.  “They would want the debtor to look at alternatives to a
stand-alone plan,” Resnick, Rothschild’s chairman of global
financing advisory, said today in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
 Manhattan , where AMR was urging Judge Sean Lane to grant
permission to void union contracts in its restructuring.  Reorganization Rights  AMR holds the sole right to file a reorganization plan
through Sept. 28, although the creditors committee can ask the
court to end that privilege if the panel concludes there is a
viable alternative. The company filed for bankruptcy on Nov. 29.  A combined airline would produce savings and new revenue of
$1.2 billion a year, excluding the increased labor costs, US
Airways President Scott Kirby said on the conference call,
calling that a conservative estimate.  “There’s a tremendous amount of value created by merging
US Airways and AMR,” he said. “We can and should use a portion
of that to give employees more than AMR can on stand-alone
basis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  