-- US Airways Loss Unexpectedly Shrinks on Traffic, Fares
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-04-25T12:28:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/us-airways-loss-unexpectedly-shrinks-on-traffic-fares.html
US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) , a potential
merger partner for  American Airlines , said its first-quarter
loss narrowed more than analysts expected to $22 million, as the
carrier flew more passengers and collected higher fares.  The loss of 13 cents a share, excluding gains on an asset
swap, shrank from $110 million, or 68 cents, on that basis a
year earlier, the Tempe, Arizona-based company said in a
statement today. The loss was narrower than the 23-cent average
of 12 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  US Airways ’ 5.4 percent growth in passenger traffic in the
carrier’s main jet operations and 5.7 percent increase in
average fares helped diminish the effect of higher jet-fuel
costs. Sales rose 10 percent to $3.27 billion. Since the start
of 2010, US Airways has reported losses in only the first
quarter of each year.  “Consumer demand for our product remains very high,”
Chief Executive Officer Doug Parker said in the statement. “We
continue to be encouraged with the overall strength in passenger
demand” heading into the busy summer travel season.  US Airways, the smallest of the major U.S. full-service
carriers, has reached agreements with each of American’s major
unions on contract terms, contingent on a successful takeover of
the bankrupt airline.  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s American this week began
trying to persuade a  bankruptcy court  to let it replace existing
contracts with new concessionary terms after failing to
negotiate accords with its unions.  Airline Consolidation  Parker long has backed consolidation among U.S. airlines.
He oversaw the 2005 combination of America West Holdings Corp.
and US Airways, and since has failed in attempted mergers with
Delta Air Lines Inc. and United Airlines parent UAL Corp.  US Airways’ results included a $73 million gain from the
December swap of landing and takeoff slots with Delta at New
York’s LaGuardia and  Washington ’s Reagan National airports and a
$3 million special operating charge. Including those items, US
Airways had a net profit of $48 million, or 28 cents a share,
compared with a net loss of $114 million, or 71 cents, a year
earlier.  US Airways gained 4.2 percent to $9.70 at 8.21 a.m. in  New
York . The shares have risen 84 percent this year before today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
{ maryc.s@bloomberg.net }  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at  { edufner@bloomberg.net } 