-- Vale to Redesign Giant Ore Ships to Protect Crews From Pirates
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-04-25T10:19:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/vale-to-redesign-giant-ore-ships-to-protect-crews-from-pirates.html
Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s second-largest
mining company, plans to change designs for some of its new
 iron-ore  ships, the biggest ever built, to include safe rooms
protecting crews against hijackings by Somali pirates.  Some ships will have purpose-built emergency strongrooms,
known as citadels, where crews can await rescue if pirates board
the vessels, Peter Kavanagh, company security officer for Rio de
Janeiro-based Vale, said on the sidelines of a Hanson Wade
conference in Hamburg yesterday. Vale is the world’s biggest
producer of iron ore, a steelmaking raw material.  Pirate attacks in the  Gulf of Aden , the  Red Sea  and off
Somalia, an area larger than  Europe , jumped almost fivefold
between 2007 and 2011 to a record 236, according to the London-
based International Maritime Bureau. Ship owners need to
strengthen citadels on existing vessels because pirates can too
often shoot through their doors and windows, Kavanagh said.  “We’re the only company I know of that’s doing it,” he
said. “I don’t think a lot of people are there yet. It’s too
easy to call something a citadel when it really isn’t.”  Vale, which already owns and operates 52 vessels, is
building 35 of the world’s biggest iron-ore carriers, of which
it will own 18. The redesign will apply to those company-owned
vessels yet to be delivered, according to Kavanagh. Some of the
ships cross the  Indian Ocean  to Oman to deliver the raw material
to a pelletizing plant, he said.  Food, Medicine  The strongrooms, recommended under industry guidelines,
will have independent satellite communication as well as food
and medicine for three days, according to Kavanagh. They also
will enable crews to control ships, he said.  Diverting ships from risky areas lengthened journey times
by three days, adding $70,000 a day in extra fuel costs, or
about 78 percent of the additional security expense, he said.
Vale used armed guards on all vessels sailing to Oman since
July, Kavanagh said.  There are about 5,000 pirates operating in the region, with
about 20 percent “taken out of the game” through counter-
piracy operations, Phil Haslam, chief of staff of the European
Union Naval Force Somalia, said at the same event.  The increased naval interventions and better on-board
security helped cut first-quarter attacks by Somali pirates to
43 from 97 a year earlier, the IMB said April 23.  Vale  ranks second  among miners by market value after BHP
Billiton Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  