-- Vale Falls After Reporting Declining Profit, Output
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-04-26T20:09:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/vale-quarterly-profit-falls-after-iron-ore-prices-decline-1-.html
Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s second-largest
mining company, rose the most in a week after Chief Executive
Officer Murilo Ferreira said the company will rebound from weak
sales in the first quarter.  Vale rose 1.7 percent to 41.78 reais at 4:28 p.m. in  Sao
Paulo , the biggest gain since April 18. It earlier fell to the
lowest in more than six weeks after profit dropped for a third
straight quarter on declining iron-ore prices and output. Before
today, Vale  fell  12 percent in the past 12 months, compared with
a 7.8 percent decline in the benchmark Bovespa  Index. (IBOV)   Net income slumped 44 percent in the quarter after slowing
Chinese demand pushed down  iron-ore  prices and heavy rains
curtailed production and raised costs. It fell to $3.83 billion,
or 74 cents a share, from a record $6.83 billion, or $1.29, a
year earlier, Rio de Janeiro-based Vale said yesterday in a
regulatory filing. Net sales fell 16 percent to $11.1 billion.  “The first quarter is always the worst due to weather,”
Ferreira said on a conference call with analysts. “We will meet
our targets” for iron-ore exports this year, he said.  The company in January declared force majeure on iron-ore
shipments because of severe rains in three Brazilian states,
affecting sales. Iron-ore production fell 2.2 percent in the
first quarter to 70 million metric tons after operations were
impeded in southeastern  Brazil , the company said April 17.  March Rebound  Vale’s production and sales rebounded in March and should
continue strong in the second quarter after heavy rains curbed
output in the first two months of the year, Bruno Piagentini, an
equity analyst at Coinvalores Corretora de Valores, said in a
telephone interview from Sao Paulo.  “The market realized the drop in sales and the rise in
costs in the first quarter was temporary,” Piagentini said.
“Vale is returning to the company that we’re familiar with.”  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest mining company,
reported a 14 percent gain in production of the steelmaking raw
material in the three months ended March 31.  Vale sold iron ore at an average $109.26 a metric ton, 13
percent less than a year earlier. Average sale prices for nickel
fell 27 percent, while copper prices decreased 19 percent, the
company said.  Strong demand from Chinese  steel mills  will support iron-
ore prices and Vale is “optimistic” about increases, Murilo
said.  Falling Prices  Iron-ore prices slumped to $116.90 per metric ton in
October, the lowest since December 2009, from $191.90 in the
first quarter of 2011. The company is the world’s biggest iron-
ore producer and the second-biggest for nickel after Moscow-
based OAO GMK  Norilsk Nickel. (MNOD)   “Given the unfavorable weather conditions at the beginning
of the year that created transportation difficulties for the
product, the result is in line with our expectations,” Victor Penna, an equity analyst at Banco do Brasil SA, said in a note
to clients yesterday.  The cost of goods sold by Vale rose 2 percent to $5.69
billion as the company hired more workers and faced dredging and
maintenance charges because of the rains on its open pit mines.
Sales, general and administrative expenses grew 26 percent to
$529 million, Vale said in yesterday’s statement.  Annual Profit  For the year, Vale’s profit is expected to decline to $18.2
billion from $22.9 billion in 2011, according to the  average  of
16 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Vale shipped 65.2 million tons of iron ore and pellets in
the quarter, 4.2 percent less than a year earlier. Pellets are a
processed form of iron ore used by the  steel industry .  “The demand for our products continues to be strong,”
Vale said in the statement, adding that iron ore and pellet
shipments in March surged to 31.7 million tons. “There are
indications of a good performance for Chinese steel production
in April driven by the recovery in the demand for construction
and infrastructure,” it said.  Nickel sale volumes declined 3.4 percent to 56,000 tons in
the quarter, while copper shipments rose 9.4 percent to 58,000
tons, the company said. Potash sales volumes fell 4.5 percent to
128,000 tons, Vale said.  China Sales  Vale sold 47 percent of its iron ore and pellets to Chinese
customers in the first quarter, up from 41 percent a year
earlier.  Europe  bought 16 percent, down from 20 percent a year
earlier.  “The impact of the recession in Europe persisted, causing
the share of our shipments to the region to continue to trend
downward,” Vale said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  