-- Viacom Lease at Times Square Tower Extended Through 2031
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-04-26T22:18:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/viacom-to-extend-lease-at-sl-green-s-times-square-tower-to-2031.html
Viacom Inc. (VIAB) , the owner of  MTV ,
Nickelodeon and  Paramount Pictures , extended its lease at  SL
Green Realty Corp. (SLG) ’s 1515 Broadway in  New York  and is poised to
occupy the entire office portion of the tower after 2020.  The media company’s lease will run through 2031 with the
new agreement, SL Green President Andrew Mathias said in a
telephone interview yesterday. After 2020, Viacom will have
about 1.6 million square feet (149,000 square meters) at the
Times Square building, which is its headquarters, he said.  The deal ends speculation that Viacom might leave Times
Square after its leases expire in 2015. Projects in  Manhattan 
including the World Trade Center and Hudson Yards are seeking
anchor tenants. It’s the city’s largest-ever office lease,
excluding deals in which a building was sold and immediately
rented back from the buyer, according to SL Green.  “It’s a seminal moment for  New York City  and Times
Square,” Mathias said. “It’s terrific to have them at the
crossroads of the world with an enhanced and increased presence.
It cements New York City’s status as the media capital of the
world.”  SL Green rose 3.9 percent to $81.71, the highest price in
almost nine months, at the close in New York. The real estate
investment trust was today’s biggest gainer in the 120-member
 Bloomberg REIT Index. (BBREIT)   Bank of China  SL Green, based in New York, agreed to take a $775 million
mortgage from  Bank of China Ltd.  on the 56-story Broadway tower,
replacing $447 million of existing debt, Mathias said. The
 interest rate  on the seven-year, floating-rate loan is tied to
the London interbank offered rate, a benchmark for commercial
mortgages, he said.  Mathias declined to disclose the interest rate or terms of
the new Viacom agreement.  The Viacom deal is a “big positive” for SL Green, Brendan Maiorana, an analyst with  Wells Fargo & Co ., wrote in a note to
clients. “The announcement removes a major overhang, in our
view, since Viacom was considering a move downtown.”  The lease “sets up very well” for SL Green to consider
bringing in a joint-venture partner to share ownership of the
tower, Mathias said in a conference call with analysts today.
The building, which includes two Broadway theaters, has retail
space that may become available, providing “upside” to the
building’s value, he said.  Chief Executive Officer Marc Holliday, on the call, put the
skyscraper’s value at $1.6 billion. The company last year bought
out partner SITQ, a real estate investment unit of Canadian
pension-fund manager Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec, in
a deal that valued the building at $1.21 billion.  Biggest Lease  The agreement is the biggest U.S. office lease since at
least 2008, according to data from  CoStar Group Inc. (CSGP) , a
Washington-based real estate data service. Other large deals
include  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s lease of almost 1.2 million square feet
at 1 New York Plaza, announced last week, and two media deals
from last year: NBC Universal’s renewal of more than 1.2 million
square feet at 30 Rockefeller Plaza, and Conde Nast Publications
Inc.’s 1 million-square-foot lease at 1 World Trade Center.  New York City is “a vibrant source of inspiration for
Viacom’s innovative and creative employees,”  Philippe Dauman ,
Viacom’s president and chief executive officer, said in a
statement. “We have had a great partnership with SL Green and
have been proud to lead the revitalization of the Times Square
 neighborhood  for two decades.”  Viacom’s broker was  CBRE Group Inc. (CBG) , while SL Green was
represented by company employees.  FFO Falls  Separately, SL Green yesterday reported first-quarter funds
from operations of $99.3 million, down from $142.8 million a
year earlier. The decline was due in part to a drop in gains
from loan investments. Per-share FFO, which gauges a property
company’s ability to generate cash, totaled $1.10 a share,
beating the $1.08 average of 17 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  The company raised its  projection  for 2012 FFO to $4.50 to
$4.60 a share, up from $4.45 to $4.55.  Matt DiLiberto, SL Green’s chief accounting officer, said
on today’s conference call that the increase was the result of
the “brisk” pace of acquisitions and leasing during the first
four months of the year, as well as the 1515 Broadway
refinancing.  Viacom rents 1.3 million square feet at an average of
$61.59 a square foot from SL Green, making it the real estate
investment trust’s second-biggest tenant, according to the
REIT’s fourth-quarter regulatory filing. Its largest tenant is
 Citigroup Inc. (C)   To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  