-- Vilsack Says Animal ID Rule Coming, Mad Cow Tests Adequate
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-04-25T17:20:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/vilsack-says-animal-id-rule-coming-mad-cow-tests-adequate-1-.html
U.S. Agriculture Secretary Tom
Vilsack said a new rule on animal identification should be
released “very, very soon,” and that current levels of mad
cow-disease testing are adequate.  Consumers shouldn’t be worried about the safety of U.S.
food, Vilsack said in an interview with Bloomberg Television, a
day after his department announced that routine testing had
uncovered the nation’s fourth case of mad cow disease, in a
dairy animal at a rendering facility in central  California . The
discovery spurred fresh calls for increased monitoring of the
U.S. meat supply.  “We have a good surveillance system and have been
successful in reducing the number” of cases of mad cow disease,
or bovine spongiform encephalopathy, Vilsack said. “We’re very
confident in the sampling we currently do.”  A nationwide animal identification system that would let
officials track sick livestock back to their farms of origin --
and help identify other infected animals -- has been promised by
the Department of Agriculture since 2003, after the first BSE
case surfaced. Cattle futures plummeted 22 percent in the week
after the announcement, and  beef exports  didn’t top 2003 levels
until 2010.  A voluntary animal ID plan  was abandoned in 2010 after some
ranchers refused to participate, citing cost and concerns that
the proposed registry would give competitors proprietary
information.  The rule Vilsack referred to, which the USDA proposed in
August, would require registration and tagging of livestock
moved between states, with guidelines tailored to different
species. It would be put in place gradually, applying first to
older animals in the U.S. cattle herd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  