-- Virgin Media’s Usain Bolt Ad Campaign Gains Customers
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-04-25T08:35:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/virgin-media-s-usain-bolt-ad-campaign-weighs-on-profit.html
Virgin Media Inc. (VMED)  said its
advertising campaign with Jamaican sprinter Usain Bolt helped
the pay-TV operator gain the most customers in two years even as
the associated surge in marketing costs weighed on earnings.  Virgin Media added 21,200 net customers in the first
quarter, the most since 2010, while marketing spending soared 49
percent to 52.6 million pounds ($84.9 million). Earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and other one-
time charges in the three months ended March 31 were little
changed from a year earlier at 376.5 million pounds.  “Such a large increase won’t be repeated but we’re
starting to ramp up marketing spend,” Chief Financial Officer
Eamonn O’Hare said today in an interview. “We’re massively
outspent” by competitor  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   Virgin Media, the U.K.’s second-largest pay-TV company,
aired advertising with Bolt and Richard Branson, the founder of
Virgin Group Ltd., to market its plan to double broadband speeds
for existing customers. The Hook, England-based company is
investing 110 million pounds as it seeks to upgrade the speeds
and retain customers.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s 1.04 billion-pound acquisition of
 Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc (CW/)  will lead to a “more
formidable” operation, O’Hare said today. Virgin Media competes
with the British operator in offering services to enterprises
and may gain from the short-term disruption following the
purchase, he said.  “ Cable & Wireless  had a bit of flailing-arm mentality at
the end,” as it was squeezed by competitors, O’Hare said. “It
may actually lead to more rational pricing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  