-- Vivendi Said to Consider Company Breakup
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d ,   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2012-04-26T16:16:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/vivendi-said-to-consider-company-breakup.html
Vivendi SA (VIV)  is considering an
overhaul of its company structure that may lead to a breakup of
the owner of the world’s largest music and video-game companies,
according to people with knowledge of the matter.  One option under discussion is to split the Paris-based
company into two, with one part incorporating media assets such
as  Universal Music Group  and video-game maker  Activision
Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) , said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the deliberations are private. The other would include
Vivendi’s telecommunications and content distribution units,
they said, adding that the internal review is at an early stage.  Vivendi’s supervisory board, led by Chairman Jean-Rene Fourtou, is seeking to reverse a slide in the company’s stock
and reduce a discount he puts at almost 40 percent because of
the way Vivendi is structured as a holding vehicle of multiple
units. The board is due to discuss the alternatives during a
three-day summit with top executives in June, one person said.  “It’s a sign that pressure is increasing on management,
maybe even a war of nerves between shareholders and
management,” said  Conor O’Shea , an analyst at Kepler Capital
Markets who advises holding Vivendi shares.  Other options may include a partial or complete spinoff of
pay-TV operator  Canal Plus , which is 20 percent owned by
publisher  Lagardere SCA (MMB) , the people said.  Shares Jump  A Vivendi spokesman said the company vigorously denies
intending to separate Canal Plus from the rest of its
businesses. He said there has been no decision on a review of
corporate structure and referred to a  letter  to shareholders on
March 27.  Vivendi shares rose 4 percent to 13.87 euros in Paris,
valuing the company at 17.3 billion euros ($22.9 billion), after
gaining as much as 8.1 percent earlier today. They have fallen
18 percent this year, the worst performance in France’s
benchmark CAC 40 Index.  In the letter looking into the reasons for a
“disappointing” stock performance, Chief Executive Officer
 Jean-Bernard Levy  said Vivendi’s portfolio of assets made sense,
though he said the board “regularly posed the question of the
group’s perimeter.”  Changes in top management may also be announced after the
June meeting, one of the people said.  SFR Buyout  Levy last year spent 7.95 billion euros to take full
control of French mobile-phone company SFR from  Vodafone Group
Plc. (VOD)  Vivendi’s largest division has seen its earnings decline as
new operator  Iliad SA (ILD)  builds market share.  At 16.6 billion euros as of yesterday’s close, Vivendi’s
market capitalization compares with almost 40 billion euros in
total  value  of its various businesses, not counting 12 billion
euros of net debt, according to estimates by Morgan Stanley
analysts. The investment bank values SFR alone at 12.9 billion
euros, and Brazilian phone unit GVT at 5.2 billion euros.  “The supervisory board is likely to come under pressure to
defend its decision to consolidate Vodafone’s SFR stake when the
Iliad launch risks were well known,”  Will Smith , an analyst at
Jefferies International Ltd., wrote in a note.  A split of Vivendi’s communications and content-production
activities would put an end to a combined business model that’s
unique in  Europe . Rival phone companies including  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE)  and  France Telecom SA (FTE)  have de-emphasized media assets
in favor of their core telecommunications businesses, at the
same time seeking partnerships with outside content producers.  ‘No Taboos’  Still, some analysts question whether direct sales of some
of Vivendi’s assets may generate more value.  “The question is whether a split is the right decision,”
said  Claudio Aspesi , a London-based analyst at Sanford C
Bernstein. “I’ve always believed that the most attractive
option is actually to sell off a number of assets and
potentially slim a company down to its core of SFR and Canal
Plus.”  Levy and Fourtou already faced calls to change managers and
invite new members to the board at the company’s  shareholder 
meeting last week. Levy also came under fire from investors
asking for plans to tackle the company’s low valuation.  “Our conglomerate discount has become gigantic, close to
40 percent,” Fourtou said at the meeting in Paris. “We will
not stay idle, and there are no taboos about how we will tackle
this. We will look over our strategy, our perimeter and our
image among investors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  