-- VTB Group Profit Advanced 54% Last Year, Missing Estimates
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-04-25T07:56:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/vtb-group-profit-advanced-54-last-year-missing-estimates-1-.html
VTB Group,  Russia ’s second-biggest
lender, said profit grew 54 percent last year, missing analyst
estimates, as  Europe ’s debt crisis roiled the banking industry.  Net income attributable to shareholders advanced to 89.4
billion rubles ($3.1 billion), from 58.2 billion rubles a year
earlier, the Moscow-based bank said in a statement today. That
missed the 92.5 billion-ruble average of 19 investment banks
polled by VTB on April 23. The group swung to a net loss of 26.7
billion rubles from “financial instruments” last year,
compared with a gain of 14.7 billion rubles in 2010.  “We achieved a great deal in 2011, with a record net
profit despite challenging conditions in the global  capital
markets ,” VTB Chief Executive Officer Andrey Kostin said in the
statement. “While global economic uncertainty remains, we are
well positioned to improve further our performance as the
recovery takes hold in Russia and confidence returns to the
markets worldwide.”  Prime Minister and President-elect  Vladimir Putin  has said
Russia should target expansion of at least 6 percent a year to
become a top-five economy in terms of purchasing power. Gross
domestic product may expand 3.4 percent this year, less than the
3.7 percent the government initially forecast, Economy Minister
Elvira Nabiullina  said this month.  Lending Growth  VTB said gross loans surged 50 percent last year to 4.6
trillion rubles. The share of non-performing loans shrank to 5.4
percent of the total on Dec. 31, from 8.6 percent a year
earlier. The net interest margin, which measures the profit
margin on lending, for the year was at 5 percent, little changed
from 5.1 percent in 2010.  VTB shares jumped as much as 1.1 percent and were trading
0.9 percent higher at 64 kopeks as of 11:07 a.m. in Moscow. The
 Micex Index (VTBMICX)  climbed 0.7 percent.  Kostin said last week the bank has enough capital to
continue growing and called on the government to speed up its
planned sale of a stake in  OAO Sberbank (SBER) , the nation’s biggest
lender. VTB is buying back 11.4 billion rubles of shares at
their initial public offering price from investors who lost
money after participating in the 2007 share sale.  President-elect Vladimir Putin announced the buyback before
the nation’s March 4 presidential vote, earning him the
criticism of asset managers including  Charlemagne Capital Ltd. (CCAP) 
and Van Eck Associates, who called it a political maneuver that
will dilute the value of their holdings.  “Risks remain for VTB with downbeat sentiment toward the
stock generated by the buyback and comments on the likelihood of
recapitalization,” Leonid Slipchenko, banking analyst at
UralSib Financial Corp, wrote in an e-mailed report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  