-- Wal-Mart Mexico Probe Threatening Global Growth Success: Retail
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-04-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/wal-mart-mexico-probe-threatening-global-growth-success-retail.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s (WMT)  global
operations were designed to help it become less reliant on its
mature U.S. business. Now Wal-Mart is grappling with possible
bribery in Mexico, its second-largest foreign market,
potentially putting the global strategy in peril.  On April 21, the world’s largest retailer confirmed it had
started a probe into its Mexican operations in response to
allegations that executives bribed officials to fast-forward
expansion. The U.S.  Justice Department  is also investigating,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  Wal-Mart’s house-cleaning is seen to threaten growth in
Mexico, which last year generated about 21 percent of foreign
sales growth. Meanwhile, Wal-Mart is losing market share in
 Brazil  and China. It has no retail stores in  India . And in
 Canada  Wal-Mart is about to clash with  Target Corp. (TGT) , which next
year will open the first of as many as 150 locations there.  “They will probably have to cool international growth,”
said  Brian Sozzi , chief equity analyst at independent research
firm NBG Inc. in  New York . “The international business has not
lived up to expectations. It’s not what it needs to be to offset
what’s happening in the U.S.”  Since opening its first international store in Mexico in
1991, Wal-Mart has had plenty of overseas travails. The company
exited  Germany  in 2006 after being shunned by many consumers.
 Japan  slumped for several years until rebounding in 2008.  Emerging Markets  Wal-Mart confronts some of its steepest challenges in
 emerging markets , where much of the future growth lies. Last
October, the Chongqing city government in  China  shut down 13
 Wal-Mart stores  for two weeks for mislabeling pork. Before that,
the city cited Wal-Mart for selling some perishable items after
their expiration dates. Meanwhile, the Indian government caved
to populist pressure to keep Wal-Mart out of the retail business
and protect local stores.  Now the company has created a new executive position to
ensure that Wal-Mart employees around the world are complying
with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Doing so will add a
layer of bureaucracy to the company’s overseas efforts.  Kevin Gardner , a spokesman, said Wal-Mart is strong in
Mexico, Canada and the U.K. Wal-Mart International is the
company’s fastest-growing unit, he said in a phone interview.  On April 23, Wal-Mart de Mexico SAB said in a statement
that the company doesn’t believe the bribery probe will have
adverse effects on its business, results or cash flow.  It’s not hard to see why Chief Executive Officer Mike Duke
is looking beyond the U.S. for growth. At home, online retailers
such as  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and dollar stores are stealing Wal-
Mart’s traditional customers by offering low prices and
convenience. In the fiscal year ended Jan. 31, Wal-Mart’s U.S.
sales rose 1.5 percent; international sales surged 11 percent.  Star Performer  Wal-Mart de Mexico has been the star performer; operating
margin was 7.9 percent last year, compared with an average of
4.9 percent for the global operations as a whole.  While the U.K. is Wal-Mart’s largest foreign market, sales
growth there is comparatively tepid: 8 percent on average from
2000 to 2010, compared with 12 percent in Mexico, according to
 Planet Retail , a London-based research firm. The U.K. is a
mature market with limited room for growth.  Elsewhere, the road gets rockier. In China, while sales are
growing, they aren’t keeping pace with the market. In part,
that’s because a host of local rivals are undercutting Wal-Mart
on price even as the retailer’s reputation suffered following
the revelations over tainted and expired food.  Wal-Mart DNA  In Brazil, consumers are used to sales and promotional
events, which aren’t part of Wal-Mart’s DNA. Selling fresh food
also is important, and Wal-Mart is still trying to perfect that
business. Plus, French rival  Carrefour SA (CA)  is a formidable foe,
according to Bryan Gildenberg, an analyst with London-based
Kantar Retail.  To boost sales in Brazil, the company is gearing up to roll
out its Everyday Low Price strategy -- EDLP in Wal-Mart-speak.
Featuring the same low prices every day, as opposed to luring
buyers with deals on select items, EDLP is core to Wal-Mart’s
brand in the U.S. and a key to its success.  In Brazil it faces two hurdles, according to Natalie Berg,
a Planet Retail analyst. Wal-Mart is the third-largest retailer
in Brazil and as a result, lacks the pricing power it does in
the U.S., she said. Second, Wal-Mart has contracts with
suppliers with set pricing and will have to renegotiate them to
get some items to Everyday Low Prices, she said.  “In markets where they aren’t number one, it’s very hard
to transition to EDLP,” Berg said in a phone interview. “It’s
not as rosy in Brazil as Wal-Mart makes it out to be.”  China Execution  Doug McMillon, CEO of the international unit, wants to do
the same in China next year and get that business to execute
better overall, he said at an analyst conference this month.  There, too, EDLP will be a challenge, Berg said. Wal-Mart’s
China business doesn’t have the purchasing scale it has in the
U.S. and the company has struggled to strike a chord with
consumers. Recently, Wal-Mart shut down a small-store experiment
in China called Smart Choice, she said.  Facing challenges in all these key markets, Wal-Mart had
bet big on  Mexico , where it has demonstrated some of its most
effective retail innovations. Of Wal-Mart’s 2,138 Mexican
stores, 1,250 are relatively small Bodegas Aurrera stores, which
appeal to Mexican shoppers because they are low-priced and
convenient places to get food and basic consumables. Their
success prompted Wal-Mart to use them as the inspiration for its
new, small-format locations in the U.S. and  Latin America .  In Mexico, Wal-Mart also successfully put several retail
concepts on one patch of real estate. Configurations include a
large discount store, Sam’s Club, Suburbia apparel store and a
Vips restaurant all facing one parking lot.  “Mexico is a cornerstone of their international presence
and it has been very successful,” Gildenberg said. “It would
be unfortunate if the single biggest memory of Wal-Mart de
Mexico is this issue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  