-- Wal-Mart Licenses to Be Examined by Mexico Federal Agency
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-04-25T21:12:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/wal-mart-licenses-to-be-examined-by-mexico-federal-agency-1-.html
Mexico ’s federal government will
investigate how  Wal-Mart de Mexico SAB  obtained federal permits
for any possible “irregular conduct,” the nation’s anti-
corruption agency said.  The Public Administration Ministry will examine the permits
and approvals Wal-Mart obtained from federal agencies to open
and operate its stores in Mexico, it said today on its  website .
It will also solicit information from the U.S. government, it
said.  Wal-Mart de Mexico is facing government scrutiny on both
sides of the border after it disclosed it was looking into
allegations that it spent more than $24 million to bribe local
officials to get stores opened faster. The U.S.  Justice
Department  is also investigating the payments detailed in an
April 21  New York  Times story.  The Mexican probe’s focus will be narrow because the
federal government doesn’t have authority over most permits Wal-
Mart obtained to run its stores, said Arturo Pueblita, a Mexico
City lawyer whose clients include international pharmacies and
local retailers. Some health and environmental permission may
cross into federal jurisdiction, he said.  “The results will be very limited because of their
jurisdiction,” said Pueblita, of the law firm Cuevas y Pueblita
Abogados in Mexico City. “I don’t think they’ll have any
definitive results. I think this is nothing more than a public
spectacle.”  If the Public Administration Ministry uncovers evidence
that local officials accepted bribes, it will pass the
information to authorities with jurisdiction, it said.  Wal-Mart de Mexico gained 3.7 percent to 37.55 pesos at the
close in Mexico City, where it is based. Bentonville, Arkansas-
based  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , which owns 69 percent of the Mexican
unit, fell 0.7 percent to $57.36 in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  