-- Watson to Buy Actavis for $5.6 Billion in Generics Deal
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m   a n d   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2012-04-25T21:49:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/watson-to-buy-actavis-for-5-6-billion-in-generics-deal.html
Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI) , maker
of the generic version of Lipitor cholesterol pills, agreed to
buy closely held drugmaker  Actavis Group hf  for 4.25 billion
euros ($5.6 billion), expanding its reach in Europe and  Asia .  The deal will create the third-largest global generic-drug
maker with $8 billion anticipated in 2012 revenue, Parsippany,
New Jersey-based Watson said today in a statement. Watson will
add 5.5 million shares, valued at $330 million, to the deal in
2013 if Actavis hits certain performance milestones this year.  “The transaction itself is commercially compelling, it’s
financially compelling, and it expands our team,” Watson Chief
Executive Officer  Paul Bisaro  said today in a conference call.
“The combination of all of those things, I think, is going to
make an extremely powerful global company.”  Actavis would boost Watson’s presence in central and
Eastern  Europe ,  China  and  India , said Michael Faerm, a Credit
Suisse analyst in New York. Actavis said Dec. 21 it’s also
developing its own pain medications.  Actavis’s “mix of higher-value, non-commodity products
fits Watson’s strategy and enhances this strength,” Faerm said
in a March 21 note to clients.  Watson, which makes the authorized copy of  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s
Lipitor, gained 1.6 percent to close at $69.69 at the close in
New York before the deal was announced. The shares rose 19
percent in the past 12 months, compared with an 11 percent
return for the S&P 500 Health Care Index.  Sales Growth  Actavis’s sales rose 9 percent last year to almost 1.9
billion euros, spokesman Frank Staud said in a March 22 e-mail.
The company, based in Zug,  Switzerland , makes generic versions
of the attention-deficit treatment Ritalin and the sedative
Ambien, among other products. In a Dec. 21 statement, Actavis
announced a partnership with  QRxPharma Ltd. (QRX) , of North Sydney,
Australia, to introduce pain medication MoxDuo IR in the U.S.  The Swiss drugmaker saw MoxDuo as “a flagship product in
the company’s growing pain management franchise,” Actavis said.
In all, Actavis has about 850 products on the market, according
to its website. It makes injectable drugs and creams as well as
tablets and capsules.  The companies overlap on about 10 percent of their
products, giving Watson access to many new compounds in the
deal, said Asthika Goonewardene, a Bloomberg Industries analyst.  Actavis has more than 10,000 employees worldwide, a sales
presences in more than 40 countries and about 300 projects in
development, Watson said in the statement.  Industry Deals  There have been have been almost 120 generic-drugs
takeovers worldwide over the past decade, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Watson is paying about 14 times earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization for
Actavis, in line with the median that buyers paid in 10 deals
over that period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Watson reported  sales  of $4.58 billion last year.  Actavis, backed by  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , overhauled its
business after billionaire owner Bjorgolfur Thor Bjorgolfsson
lost money in the financial crisis, leaving the Frankfurt-based
lender with as much as 5 billion euros of debt, people familiar
with the company said in 2009. The drugmaker  refinanced its debt 
in 2010.  Actavis Chief Executive Officer Claudio Albrecht said in an
interview last June that he was weighing an initial public
offering or merger for the company within three years. Albrecht
said he would prefer for Actavis to be about three times its
current size. He moved the company from Iceland to Zug in May.  Bank of America Corp. served as sole financial adviser to
Watson, while Latham & Watkins LLP provided legal counsel.
Actavis received financial advice from Blackstone Group LP and
Deutsche Bank AG, with Clifford Chance LLP acting as legal
adviser.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net ;
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  