-- WellPoint Sees $100 Billion ’Duals’ Market as Care Shifts
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-04-25T20:45:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/wellpoint-sees-100-billion-duals-market-as-states-shift-care.html
WellPoint Inc. (WLP) , the No. 2 U.S.
health plan, sees a $100 billion market in the states it serves
to provide managed care for poor, elderly patients in the
Medicare and Medicaid programs.  WellPoint’s purchase last year of CareMore Health Group and
its 29 neighborhood health clinics gives the Indianapolis-based
insurer an edge in winning the business for so-called dual
eligibles, Chief Financial Officer Wayne DeVeydt said today in a
telephone interview. WellPoint has 29 CareMore centers in
California, Nevada and  Arizona  and plans to add 12 more and
expand to other states this year, he said.  “Because this is a group that needs highly coordinated
care, you really need a model that specializes in that and
that’s what CareMore does for us,” DeVeydt said. “It’s kind of
our missing link in being prepared for the duals, and we think
we’re uniquely positioned versus some of the other companies out
there.”  About 9 million people in the U.S. are covered by Medicare,
the federal program for the elderly and disabled, and Medicaid,
the state-federal plan for the poor. This group accounts for
$320 billion in annual spending in the two health programs, said
Carl McDonald, a Citigroup analyst, in an April 24 note to
clients.  Seeking to cut costs, at least 15 states, led by
 California , Texas and  Florida , may issue contracts in the next
two years to let managed-care companies coordinate their medical
coverage, McDonald said.  The group “represents an enormous market for the
industry,” he wrote.  14 States  DeVeydt, in an interview after WellPoint announced its
quarterly earnings, said the company would seek dual-eligible
contracts first in the 14 states where it operates Blue Cross
plans before trying to expand elsewhere. The company will
participate in a pilot project in California to cover dual
enrollees starting next year.  “We want to prove to our state partners and to the federal
government that we can manage this population well and that we
can show better value for them and save the states money,”
DeVeydt said.  WellPoint earlier said earnings excluding one-time items
were $2.34 a share in the first quarter, beating the $2.30
 estimate  of 17 analysts compiled by Bloomberg. The company
raised its full year forecast for profit excluding certain items
to $7.65 a share.  The insurer declined less than 1 percent to $70.40 at the
close in  New York . The shares fell 2.5 percent in the past 12
months.  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , based in  Minnetonka ,  Minnesota ,
is the biggest health insurer by sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  