-- Wells Fargo, Blackstone Said to Buy $560 Million Eurohypo Loans
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2012-04-25T07:56:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/wells-fargo-blackstone-said-to-buy-560-million-eurohypo-loans.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Blackstone
Group LP (BX)  agreed to buy about $560 million of U.S. property loans
from Eurohypo AG, a German bank, said three people with
knowledge of the transaction.  The deal will include debt on a  New York  property designed
by Frank Gehry that calls itself the tallest residential tower
in the Western Hemisphere, the people said, who asked not to be
named because the information is private. The letter of credit
on the “New York by Gehry” building at 8 Spruce Street is the
largest of about 13 loans being sold by Eurohypo, said one of
the people. Wells Fargo will buy that loan, the person said.  Wells Fargo, based in  San Francisco , also agreed to buy a
loan on the retail component of 15 Central Park West, the luxury
New York condominium complex, where hedge-fund manager  Daniel
Loeb  and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Chief Executive Officer Lloyd
Blankfein own units.  About 60 percent of the Eurohypo loans will be purchased by
Wells Fargo, while Blackstone will buy the rest, said one of the
people. The two will own separate loans, although they bid
jointly, agreeing to pay about 5 percent to 10 percent less than
face value, said two of the people. The loans are current, they
said.  The loans being sold to Blackstone are backed mainly by
office and industrial properties in New York and Boston, said
two people. Blackstone also plans to buy a land parcel on
Manhattan’s 57th Street between Sixth Avenue and Seventh Avenue
owned by Barry Sternlicht’s Starwood Capital Group LLC, the
people said.  U.S. Bancorp  Additionally, Eurohypo sold about $180 million of loans
backed by U.S. shopping malls to  U.S. Bancorp (USB) , said Nicole
Garrison-Sprenger, a spokeswoman for the Minneapolis-based bank.
Those loans are backed by malls owned by General Growth
Properties Inc.  “From time to time,  U.S. Bank  does buy individual loans or
portfolios when it makes strategic and financial sense,”
Garrison-Sprenger said in an e-mail. “This was one of those
unique opportunities.”  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s second-largest bank, is winding
down its Eurohypo real estate and public finance lending unit to
comply with European Union state aid conditions. Commerzbank
attracted more than 100 prospective buyers for the $740 million
of U.S. real-estate loans held by Eurohypo, two people with
knowledge of the matter said April 4.  Heinrich Froemsdorf, spokesman at Eurohypo, declined to
comment. Elise Wilkinson, a spokeswoman for Wells Fargo,
declined to comment.  Peter Rose , a spokesman for Blackstone,
didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment e-mailed
after regular business hours in the U.S.  The loan sale was reported earlier by the Wall Street
Journal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  