-- West Africa’s Cocoa Areas to Get Rains by May, NOAA Says
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-04-25T09:40:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/west-africa-s-cocoa-areas-to-get-rains-by-may-noaa-says.html
Ivory Coast and  Ghana , the world’s
largest cocoa producers, will get rains over the next six days,
potentially helping crop development, according to the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.  Most of Ivory Coast will get at least 30 millimeters (1.2
inches) of rain by May 1, while most of Ghana will get at least
20 millimeters, data on the NOAA’s  website  shows. That may boost
crop development after dry weather from December through
January. Output in both countries accounted for 69 percent of
total global production last season, according to the
International Cocoa Organization in  London .  The lack of rainfall earlier this year will delay the start
of the smaller of two annual harvests in  Ivory Coast , according
to Macquarie Group Ltd. The mid-crop is expected to begin in
June, as opposed to April, as pods aren’t big enough,  Kona Haque , an analyst at the bank in London, said last week.  Cocoa climbed as much as 4.9 percent in  New York  and 4
percent in London yesterday. The London market moved into a so-
called backwardation, with the July contract trading above the
later dated ones through the May 2013 futures. Backwardation is
a market structure that may signal limited supplies.  The delay to the start of the mid-crop may be “starting to
work its way into the marketplace and force some to roll hedges
a bit further down the curve,” Drew Geraghty, a broker at ICAP
Futures LLC in  Jersey City , New Jersey, said in a report e-
mailed yesterday. “Many are pointing to concerns over the
logistics for fourth quarter cocoa as Ivory Coast will be in its
first season of forward sales.”  Ivory Coast plans to sell 70 percent of its 2012-13 crop
before it is harvested as part of wider industry changes. These
include a price guarantee to farmers that is 50 percent to 60
percent of international rates. The so-called forward sales
started on Jan. 31 and the new season will begin in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  