-- West Coast Diesel Strengthens After Regional Inventories Fall
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-04-25T22:38:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/west-coast-diesel-strengthens-after-regional-inventories-fall.html
Spot diesel in  California  and the
U.S. Northwest advanced against heating oil futures for a second
day after the Energy Department said distillate inventories on
the U.S. West Coast slipped to a 22-week low.  Distillate stockpiles  on the West Coast, known as the Padd
5 region, fell 2 percent to 11.9 million barrels in the week
ended April 20, the Energy Department said. That’s the lowest
inventory level for the fuel since Nov. 18, the agency said.  California-blend, or CARB, diesel in Los Angeles climbed
0.5 cent to a premium of 9 cents a gallon versus heating oil
futures traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the highest level for the
fuel in  Los Angeles  in eight days.  San Francisco CARB diesel rose 1 cent to a 13-cent premium
against futures, the highest level since April 3. Low-sulfur
diesel in  Portland ,  Oregon , a benchmark for the U.S. Northeast,
strengthened 0.75 cent to 20 cents a gallon above futures.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in Portland, Oregon,
jumped 3.5 cents to a premium of 10.25 cents a gallon against
Nymex gasoline futures.  West Coast  gasoline inventories  dropped 1.4 percent, or
422,000 barrels, to 29.3 million last week, the Energy
Department said. That’s the lowest stock level for the fuel
since Dec. 30, according to the agency.  California-blend, or Carbob, gasoline in San Francisco
slipped for the first time in six days, by 1 cent to a premium
of 15 cents a gallon versus gasoline futures.  Rodeo Flaring  ConocoPhillips (COP)  reported continuous flaring at the 128,000-
barrel-a-day Rodeo refinery in Northern California, according to
a filing with the  California Emergency Management Agency .  “Planned maintenance work is currently under way” at
Conoco’s San Francisco complex, consisting of the Rodeo refinery
and a plant in Arroyo Grande, California, that upgrades
feedstock for Rodeo,  Rich Johnson , a Conoco spokesman at the
company’s headquarters in Houston, said in an e-mail April 23.  Johnson didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail requesting
comment on the flaring.  Los Angeles Carbob also fell 1 cent to 12 cents a gallon
above gasoline futures.  Conoco’s 139,000-barrel-a-day Los Angeles refinery is
conducting a maintenance turnaround on the cogeneration plant
and performing a catalyst regeneration on a unifier and
hydrotreater unit, a person with direct knowledge of the work
said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  