-- Wipro Shares Tumble After IT Segment Guidance Lags
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2012-04-25T14:55:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/wipro-net-rises-to-14-8-billion-rupees-as-orders-boost-revenue.html
Wipro Ltd. (WIT) , India’s third-largest
software exporter, dropped the most in almost three years in
Mumbai trading after its forecast for information-technology
revenue lagged behind some analysts’ estimates.  IT segment  revenue in the three months ending June 30 may
be between $1.52 billion and $1.55 billion, compared with $1.54
billion in the fiscal fourth quarter, Bangalore-based Wipro said
in a  statement  today. The company’s fourth-quarter total sales
of 98.4 billion rupees ($1.9 billion) also missed analysts’
estimates for 101.5 billion rupees.  “The guidance doesn’t look amazing,” said Vihang Naik, an
analyst at MF Global Sift Securities Pvt. in Mumbai. “The fact
that they are saying this quarter is going to be flat is
significant, as Wipro is generally pretty realistic with their
guidance.”  Naik said he had expected the IT segment revenue to rise
about 2 percent in the first quarter from the previous one. That
compares with Wipro’s guidance of an increase of as much as 1
percent.  Wipro joins larger rival  Infosys Ltd. (INFO)  in forecasting sales
that lagged behind analysts’ estimates as companies take longer
time to complete outsourcing deals. Worldwide spending on IT
services may rise 1.3 percent to $856 billion this year, after
climbing 6.5 percent in 2011,  Stamford , Connecticut-based
researcher Gartner Inc. said April 5.  Shares Drop  Wipro fell  7.2 percent to 410.40 rupees at the close in
Mumbai trading, the biggest drop since May 2009.  Tata
Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) , India’s largest computer services
provider, declined 1.9 percent, while Infosys was little
changed.  Wipro  shares  traded in the U.S. tumbled 5.1 percent to
$9.80 at 10:20 a.m. New York time. The American depositary
receipts have lost 3.6 percent this year. The  Bank of New York
Mellon India ADR Index  gained 0.4 percent to 1,006.76.  Wipro today reported  fourth-quarter  net income rose 7.2
percent to 14.8 billion rupees, matching analysts’  estimates .  Wipro, which provides services such as designing and
building software programs, product-engineering and back-office
support to companies including  BP Plc. (BP) , William Morrison
Supermarkets Plc. and Pitney Bowes Inc., added 41 new clients in
the quarter, according to the statement.  “We’ve seen some softness in growth in financial
services” particularly in  Europe , Chief Financial Officer
Suresh Senapaty said. “We should be able to get a lot of deal
closures in quarter one, therefore in subsequent quarters we
should be able to get very good growth, compared with what we
have guided for quarter one.”  Raise Salaries  The  company  had a net reduction of 814 workers at its
technology unit last quarter, ending the period with 135,920
workers, according to the statement.  Workers left Wipro at a rate of 17.5 percent in the
quarter, down from 22.7 percent for the same period last year.
Tata Consultancy reported employee attrition of 12.2 percent for
the period, while Infosys reported a figure of 15.4 percent.  To keep employees amid rising competition from Tata
Consultancy and International Business Machines Corp., which
also hires workers in  India , Wipro will raise salaries this
fiscal year, Senapaty said. The percentage of increase, which
will be effective June 1, hasn’t been determined yet, he said.  Infosys decided to delay a decision on wage increases for
the year to the second or third quarter, Chief Executive Officer
S.D. Shibulal told analysts on April 12.  Earlier this month,  Infosys shares  slumped the most in
almost three years in Mumbai trading after forecasting sales
that missed analyst estimates.  Sales in the year that began April 1 may be between 384.3
billion rupees and 391.4 billion rupees, Bangalore, India-based
Infosys said in a statement on April 13. That lagged behind the
396.3 billion-rupee median of 64 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Infosys also reported fourth-quarter sales that
trailed estimates.  Wipro had its outlook reduced to negative by  Standard &
Poor’s , which cut India’s sovereign credit outlook to negative
from stable and said the revision reflects a one-in-three
likelihood of a downgrade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  