-- Worst Asian Debt to Fall on Thailand’s Sales, Aberdeen Says
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-04-26T04:15:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/worst-performing-asian-debt-to-fall-on-thai-sales-aberdeen-says.html
Thai bonds,  Asia ’s worst-performing
debt, will probably extend losses as the government increases
sales to a record to fund rebuilding after the floods disrupted
production last year, according to Aberdeen Asset Management Co.  Thailand’s local-currency notes dropped 0.7 percent in 2012,
the only market to have registered a decline among 10 nations
tracked by HSBC Holdings Plc. Indonesia, which was awarded an
investment-grade rating this year by Moody’s Investors Service,
is posting 3.8 percent returns, the best in the region.  Bond offerings will climb 16 percent to about 520 billion
baht ($16.8 billion) in the year that ends Sept. 30 to fund
flood-prevention projects, the budget deficit and an increase in
public servants’ salaries, according to the  Finance Ministry .
Prospects that inflation will accelerate as the economy recovers
are also deterring Aberdeen Asset and ING Investment Management
from buying Thai debt. The central bank forecasts 5.7 percent
growth this year, faster than the 0.1 percent  expansion  in 2011.  “Increasing supply has been the main factor driving up
yields,” Pongtharin Sapayanon, the head of fixed income in
Bangkok at Aberdeen, which manages $295 billion of assets
globally, said in an April 20 interview. “The pace of recovery
is faster than expected and inflationary pressure will
definitely rise as domestic demand will continue to be strong
throughout the year.”  Revised Debt Plan  Yields on benchmark 10-year debt advanced 46 basis points,
or 0.46 percentage point, this year to 3.75 percent yesterday
and reached a six-month high of 3.85 percent on April 2,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on similar-
maturity  notes  in  Indonesia  dropped 12 basis points to 5.91
percent. The rate on 3.65 percent baht-denominated securities
due December 2021 added two basis points to 3.78 percent as of
11:07 a.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The floods forced thousands of factories to suspend
operations, causing asset losses amounting to 630 billion baht
and economic damages of 795 billion baht, according to a Finance
Ministry estimate in January. The Cabinet approved a revised
debt-management plan for this fiscal year on March 13, which
allows the government to borrow 800 billion baht from the local
market, up from 350 billion baht announced in November.  About 400 billion baht will go toward financing the  budget
deficit , 350 billion baht for loans for flood-prevention
projects and 50 billion baht for a flood-insurance fund, Harn
Himathongkam, a deputy government spokesman, said on March 13.  “We are cautious on Thailand on the back of more supply to
support spending on rebuilding,” Patrick Chia, the Singapore-
based head of Asian fixed income at ING Investment Management,
which oversaw $416 billion on Dec. 31, said in an April 13
interview.  30-Year Debt  Nomura Asset Management Co. bought Thai bonds maturing in
30 years or longer in the first quarter because insurance
payouts and corporate tax receipts will boost the government’s
ability to repay debt, according to Thomas Kemmsies, the
Frankfurt-based head of fixed-income securities at the company,
which managed $288 billion as of October.  Barclays Capital  estimates total inflows to pay insurance
claims will amount to $10 billion to $15 billion. The yield on 5
percent government bonds maturing in June 2040 rose 30 basis
points this year to 4.43 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “What this catastrophe did was allow a lot of Thai
producers and companies to forcefully reinvest in hopefully
state-of-the-art technology,” Kemmsies said in an April 19
interview. “They have to start their investment upswing again
with insurance money.”  Baht Appreciation  Thai bonds are also attractive because policy makers will
probably allow the baht to appreciate to keep inflation at bay,
Kemmsies said. Consumer-price gains accelerated in March for the
first time since October, increasing 3.45 percent from a year
earlier, official data show. The Bank of  Thailand  raised its
2012 inflation forecast in March to 3.4 percent from 3.2 percent.  The baht has strengthened 1.2 percent in the past three
months, the second-best performance among Asia’s 11 most-traded
currencies after  Taiwan ’s dollar, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “We think any inflation threat will be countered through
slightly increased toleration for currency appreciation than
raising  interest rates , at least until reconstruction is as much
as completed,” Kemmsies said.  East Asian local-currency bonds will probably extend gains
this year as near-zero interest rates in developed nations
prompt investors to seek higher yields, the  Asian Development
Bank  said in its Asia Bond Monitor report today. It classifies
emerging-market  East Asia  as  China ,  Hong Kong , Indonesia,  South
Korea ,  Malaysia , the  Philippines ,  Singapore , Thailand and
 Vietnam .  Change in Policy  Aberdeen’s Pongtharin and Kokusai Asset Management Co. in
 Tokyo  say odds that interest rates will rise are deterring Thai
bond investors. Pongtharin said he expects the policy rate to
increase by at least 25 basis points in the second half and the
10-year yield to climb to 4 percent in six months.  The  Bank of Thailand  held its  one-day bond repurchase rate 
at 3 percent on March 21 after cutting it by a total of 50 basis
points at the previous two meetings. The Finance Ministry said
on March 26 it expects the central bank to boost borrowing costs
later this year.  “Yields, especially medium to long-term yields, have
climbed this year not only due to rising supplies, but also a
change in market views that the next policy move by the central
bank would be a rate hike toward the end of this year,”
Takahide Irimura, the head of emerging-market research at
Kokusai Asset, which manages $45 billion, said in an April 18
interview. “The pace of gains in yields will probably be slower
from here as they have risen so much already.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 