-- Yen Remains Lower on Speculation BOJ Will Expand Stimulus
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-04-25T08:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/yen-drops-versus-peers-on-prospects-boj-to-add-stimulus.html
The euro strengthened for a second
day against the dollar and yen as stock gains spurred demand for
higher-yielding assets.  The yen weakened against all except one of its 16 major
counterparts amid speculation the  Bank of Japan (8301)  will add to
stimulus measures at a policy meeting this week. The  Dollar
Index (DXY)  fell to a three-week low before the  Federal Reserve 
completed a two-day gathering. The pound appreciated to a six-
month high against the dollar.  “There are higher stock prices and safe-haven currencies
such as the yen are performing poorly,” said Neil Jones, head
of European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in
London. “This is all pointing to a risk-on trade will benefit
the euro.”  The euro rose 0.1 percent to $1.3207 at 8:56 a.m. London
time after rising 0.3 percent yesterday. The 17-nation currency
gained 0.1 percent to 107.37 yen. The yen was little changed at
81.29 per dollar.  The Dollar  Index (SXXP) , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, fell 0.1 percent to 79.133 after dropping to
79.085, the lowest since April 3.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed 0.5 percent, and the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares rose 0.2 percent.  The Federal Open Market Committee will today publish its
forecasts for interest rates, growth, inflation and unemployment
and Chairman Ben S. Bernanke will hold a press conference.  “We don’t expect the FOMC outcome to mark an end to
speculation of more QE,”  Mitul Kotecha , head of global currency
strategy in Hong Kong at Credit Agricole CIB, wrote in an e-
mailed note, referring to the Fed’s asset purchases or so-called
quantitative easing.  “The U.S. dollar will continue to be restrained until
there is more clarity on the economy, and in turn, Fed
thinking,” he wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Goodman in  London  at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  