-- Dollar Weakens Before Fed Ends Meeting; Pound Declines
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-04-25T15:32:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/yen-appreciates-against-dollar-strengthening-0-2-to-81-17-yen.html
The  dollar  fluctuated against the
euro on speculation Federal Reserve officials meeting today will
signal they remain open to a further round of asset purchases to
spur economic growth.  The greenback dropped earlier as U.S. durable-goods orders
fell by the most in three years, a sign the world’s largest
economy is slowing. Sterling slid versus most of its major peers
after the U.K. economy entered its first double-dip recession
since the 1970s. Higher-yielding currencies, including  South
Africa ’s rand and Canada’s dollar, gained as stocks rose amid
increasing risk appetite after company earnings beat estimates.  “It’s all about the tone of the Fed, and whether or not
they sound more upbeat or more cautious on the economy could set
the tone for the dollar,” said  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in
Washington at Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of
Western Union Co. “The positive corporate earnings from the
likes of Apple, that’s provided a timely distraction.”  The dollar depreciated less than 0.1 percent to $1.3203 per
euro at 11:28 a.m. New York time after rising 0.1 percent
earlier and falling as much as 0.3 percent. The U.S. currency
traded little changed at 81.35 yen. The euro was little changed
at 107.41 yen.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the U.S. currency against those of six major trading
partners, fell as much as 0.2 percent to 79.038, the lowest
level since April 3, before trading little changed at 79.165.  Hollande on Pact  The euro erased earlier gains versus the dollar after
 Francois Hollande , the leading candidate to become  France ’s next
president, said the country won’t ratify the euro fiscal pact in
its current form if he is elected. He spoke at a press
conference in Paris.  Hollande, a Socialist, has also criticized austerity
measures imposed throughout the euro region, saying he’ll
refocus the economy on growth if he wins. The euro zone’s
economy is forecast to contract 0.4 percent this year.  “Some of the Hollande comments have really had an impact,”
said  Mary Nicola , a currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA in New
York. “The candidates have a week to go and elections are tight.
It’s still a nervous point for investors.”  The South African rand strengthened 0.3 percent to 7.7750
per dollar. The Canadian dollar rose 0.3 percent to 98.44 cents
to the greenback.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1 percent.  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  posted quarterly earnings late yesterday that almost
doubled, reflecting demand for the iPhone in  China . Boeing Co.
and Electrolux AB also posted earnings that beat estimates.  Fed Policy Statement  The  Federal Open Market Committee  will probably repeat in a
policy statement after its meeting ends that subdued inflation
and economic slack will result in “exceptionally low”  interest
rates  through at least late 2014, economists said. The statement
is due around 12:30 p.m. in Washington.  The central bank at 2 p.m. will release policy makers’
forecasts for growth, unemployment, inflation and the
appropriate path of the federal funds rate over the next several
years. Chairman Ben S. Bernanke plans to hold a press conference
at 2:15 p.m.  The Fed has held its benchmark interest rate at zero to
0.25 percent since December 2008. It purchased $2.3 trillion of
bonds in two rounds of quantitative easing from December 2008 to
June 2011.  “We don’t expect the FOMC outcome to mark an end to
speculation of more QE,”  Mitul Kotecha , head of global currency
strategy in  Hong Kong  at Credit Agricole CIB, wrote in a note to
clients. “The  U.S. dollar  will continue to be restrained until
there is more clarity on the economy, and in turn, Fed
thinking.”  Durable Goods  U.S.  durable goods  orders slid 4.2 percent in March, the
biggest decrease since January 2009, after a revised 1.9 percent
gain the prior month, data from the Commerce Department showed
today in  Washington . Economists forecast a 1.7 percent decrease,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  A report on April 27 will show U.S. economic growth slowed
to a 2.5 percent annual rate last quarter, from 3 percent in the
previous three months, a separate Bloomberg survey showed.  The dollar has weakened 2.5 percent this year, the second-
worst performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes. The yen has
tumbled 8.3 percent.  The pound fell from a seven-month high versus the dollar
after a government report showed the U.K. slipped back into
recession, backing the case for the  Bank of England  to extend
its asset-purchase program.  British GDP  Sterling weakened after the  Office for National Statistics 
in  London  said gross domestic product shrank 0.2 percent last
quarter, after contracting 0.3 percent in the previous three
months. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News forecast growth of
0.1 percent.  The British currency was down 0.1 percent to $1.6133 after
rising to $1.6171, the highest level since Sept. 6. It slipped
0.1 percent to 81.80 pence per euro. It appreciated to 81.44
pence yesterday, the strongest since August 2010.  Investors should sell the euro at $1.3205, targeting a
decline to $1.3057 with an order to exit the trade if the shared
currency strengthens to $1.3250, UBS AG said.  The euro is struggling to break resistance levels at the
April 12 high of $1.3212 and the 62 percent Fibonacci
retracement of the March-to-April decline at $1.3239,  Richard Adcock , head of fixed-income technical strategy in London, wrote
in a research note. Resistance is an area on a chart where sell
orders may be clustered. Fibonacci analysis is based on the
theory that prices rise or fall by certain percentages after
reaching a high or low.  Draghi Softens Tone  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  softened his
tone on the inflation outlook and called for a “growth
compact” as the sovereign debt crisis weighs on the euro-area
economy.  While inflation will remain above the ECB’s 2 percent limit
this year, it will slow in 2013 and “underlying price pressures
should remain modest,” Draghi told lawmakers in Brussels today.
That’s a contrast to the “upside risks” to inflation he warned
of three weeks ago.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  