-- Hynix Reports Third Consecutive Loss After Chip Prices Drop
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-04-26T07:19:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/hynix-reports-third-consecutive-loss-after-chip-prices-drop.html
SK Hynix Inc. (000660) , the world’s second-
largest maker of computer-memory chips, reported its third
consecutive quarterly loss after slowing personal-computer sales
kept chip prices from recovering.  The company had a  net  loss of 271.2 billion won ($238
million) in the three months ended March, compared with profit
of 273.5 billion won a year earlier, Hynix said in a statement
today. The loss was wider than the 199.4 billion won average of
21 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Hynix joins smaller rival  Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  in being
hurt by the drop in DRAM-chip prices, which almost halved in the
past 12 months as personal-computer demand slowed. The
chipmaker, reviewing plans to bid for Elpida Memory Inc.’s
assets, stands to benefit from a possible decline in industry
capacity after the Japanese company filed for bankruptcy and as
new mobile phones and higher value laptops may boost demand.  “The numbers came in a little bit worse than expected, but
it doesn’t mean much because there were expenses related to
special bonuses,” Lee Jin Woo, a  fund manager  at Seoul-based
KTB Asset Management Co., which oversees $5.7 billion in assets,
said today. “The question is how much earnings will improve
from the second quarter. The industry may improve towards the
second half, but how fast it will happen remains to be seen.”  With special bonuses paid to employees to celebrate being
part of  SK Telecom Co. (017670)  excluded, the first-quarter operating
loss at Icheon, South Korea-based Hynix was similar to the
previous quarter, James Kim, head of  investor relations , said on
a conference call today.  Elpida, Micron  Operating loss, or sales excluding the cost of goods sold
and administrative costs, was 260 billion won on sales of 2.4
trillion won.  Hynix  shares  rose 0.6 percent to 27,200 won at the close of
trading in Seoul, while the benchmark Kospi index gained 0.1
percent.  The price of the benchmark DDR3 2-gigabit DRAM closed at
$1.02 on April 25, compared with $1.96 a year earlier, according
to data from Taipei-based Dramexchange Technology Inc., operator
of  Asia ’s largest spot market for semiconductors.  The average selling price of Hynix’s DRAM probably dropped
47 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier, according
to estimates by Taurus Investment Securities Co.  Falling chip prices pushed smaller rival Elpida Memory to
file for bankruptcy earlier this year, while Micron Technology
reported a third consecutive quarterly loss in March.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  is the world’s biggest maker of
memory chips.  Apple, Dell  Demand for memory chips slowed in the first quarter as
hard-disk drive output didn’t recover as fast as expected after
floods in  Thailand , a key production site, Choi Sung Jae, a
Seoul-based analyst at SK Securities Co., said in a March 30
report. Elpida’s bankruptcy will likely prompt major chip
buyers, including Apple Inc., Dell Inc. and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ,
to seek alternative suppliers, helping boost prices in the
second quarter, Choi wrote.  PC makers will likely start stocking up on memory chips to
make laptop computers using Intel Corp.’s new Ivy Bridge
processor, helping boost prices from May, Choi Do Yeon, a Seoul-
based analyst at LIG Investment & Securities Co., said in an
April 16 report.  Hynix submitted an initial proposal to bid for Elpida on
March 30 and said it will decide whether to make a final bid
after due diligence.  SK Telecom agreed to buy 21 percent of Hynix for 3.4
trillion won in November. Hynix plans to spend 4.2 trillion won
in capital expenditure this year.  PC shipments in the U.S. declined for the first time in a
decade last year, research firm IDC said Jan. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in  Seoul  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  