-- Tyson Credit Swaps Climb on Mad Cow, Pink Slime Publicity
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-04-25T21:18:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-25/tyson-credit-swaps-climb-on-mad-cow-pink-slime-publicity.html
The cost to protect against a
default by  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)  recorded the biggest five-day
increase since 2010 as the identification of mad cow disease in
 California  compounds consumer wariness about beef safety.  Credit-default swaps on Springdale, Arkansas-based Tyson
increased 27.5 basis points in the last five trading sessions to
a mid-price of 168.5 basis points at 5:03 p.m. in New York,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The increase in the
contracts, which typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves, was the biggest since they
climbed 31.4 basis points in the five-day period ending Sept.
28, 2010.  A case of mad cow disease has been found in a dairy cow in
Central California, a U.S. Department of Agriculture official
said yesterday in  Washington . The news of the first U.S. case in
six years follows a consumer backlash against a meat product
made from leftovers and treated with chemicals, dubbed “pink
slime” by critics.  “People are not going to stop eating hamburgers entirely,
but when you get news like mad cow, it’s going to cause some
fear on the part of the consumer,”  Standard & Poor’s  equity
analyst Thomas Graves said in a telephone interview. “As a
result, Tyson and other beef producers would not sell as much
beef.”  The USDA announcement is the latest in a series of negative
events for cattle or beef producers, including drought, profit
volatility and concern about “pink slime,” Graves wrote in a
research note yesterday.  Not Tyson’s Cow  The dairy cow identified with mad cow disease was not from
one of Tyson’s facilities, the meat producer said in a statement
yesterday.  “The mad cow headlines are not favorable but I don’t think
there will be a long-term impact,” Graves said today. “They
are a diversified business, and their chicken and pork products
will partly offset losses in the beef business.”  Beef accounted for  41 percent  of Tyson’s sales in its
latest year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Tyson has more than $2 billion of bonds  maturing by 2018 ,
Bloomberg data show. Moody’s Investors Service  has a junk rating 
of Ba1 on the food distributor, while S&P grades the company
BBB-, the lowest level of investment grade.  A gauge of U.S. company credit risk fell for a second day
as Apple Inc. added to the list of companies reporting better-
than-expected quarterly profits.  Beating Estimates  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, dropped 2.1 basis points to a mid-price of
97.6 basis points at 4:43 p.m. in  New York , Bloomberg prices
show. The fall was the biggest for the gauge in more than a
week.  The tally of companies in the Standard & Poor’s index that
beat consensus estimates on quarterly profits was 141 of the 178
that have reported earnings so far.  Following the  Federal Open Market Committee  Meeting in
Washington, Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the
central bank is “prepared to do more as needed” to help the
recovery, while keeping a check on inflation.  The swaps contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  