-- ‘Friends of Syria’ United Against Assad While Split Over Arming Opposition
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-02-25T12:49:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/-friends-of-syria-united-against-assad-while-split-over-arming-opposition.html
Saudi Arabia  and Qatar want to arm
the Syrian opposition, raising the prospect of a widening
conflict after the “Friends of Syria” group met in Tunis
yesterday to pressure President Bashar al-Assad to step down.  The two Arab nations backed a plan to send weapons to
rebels fighting the Syrian regime, a call echoed by prominent
U.S. Republican lawmakers, while the Obama administration and
officials from Morocco, Tunisia and Bahrain said they are
against moves that would further militarize the conflict.  That divide contrasted with the otherwise  united front  in
condemning the violence unleashed by the Assad regime. Syrian
forces killed 18 people today, including eight in Aleppo
province, the U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights
said in an e-mailed statement. Syrian forces broke up a protest
of 4,000 people near Aleppo city, it said.  Arming the opposition is “an excellent idea,” Saudi
Foreign Minister Prince Saud al-Faisal said on his way into a
meeting with U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , “because
they have to protect themselves.”  Clinton, Saud and officials from more than 70 countries
attended the conference in Tunis, where they backed a decision
to begin planning a joint Arab League-United Nations
peacekeeping mission after Assad’s ouster. The meeting was
disrupted by pro-Assad supporters waving placards and shouting
for the U.S. to leave the region. Clinton’s motorcade was
diverted from the conference site until Tunisian security forces
cleared out the demonstration.  Syrian Government Crimes  Clinton denounced the Syrian regime’s violence against its
opponents as an “affront to the international community, a
threat to regional security, and a grave violation of universal
human rights.” She called  Russia  and China’s support for the
regime “despicable” and urged a “negotiated, political
settlement” that results in Assad’s departure.  “There should be no mistaking our resolve,” Clinton said
in remarks to the meeting. “These crimes against the Syrian
people must stop, and there must be accountability for senior
figures of the regime.”  The gathering was meant to advance the process of peeling
away the Syrian leader’s business and military support within
the country and highlighting the isolation of Russia and  China ,
which have protected Assad from calls to step down with two UN
vetoes, Clinton said.  “To those Syrians who still support Assad, especially
members of the Syrian military: understand that this regime has
no future,” Clinton told those gathered at the meeting.  The Friends group announced it will begin planning for an
economic and political transition.  Time Running Out  “We know the time of the regime is ending,” Volker Perthes, head of the Berlin-based Institute for International
and Security Affairs and the author of books on Syria and the
Arab world, said in an interview. “Most of Assad’s shelf life
is over, but he could still hold on for months.”  At the same time, “building golden bridges for people high
in the regime who may want to leave is a way to speed Assad’s
end,” he said. “It needs to be made clear to these people that
they won’t starve if they leave for Lebanon,  Europe  or
elsewhere.”  On the eve of the talks, the UN and  Arab League  appointed
former UN chief Kofi Annan to be special envoy on the Syrian
crisis. UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon would begin planning
for the deployment of “blue helmet” peacekeeping forces, a
process that he can do without fear of being blocked by either
Russia or China, according to diplomats attending the conference
who spoke on condition of anonymity.  The Arab League pushed for the declaration of the UN plans,
the diplomats said, in part to get member countries started on
their own plans to contribute.  Arab Force  In his remarks, Tunisian president Moncef Marzouki called
for the formation of “an Arab force, accompanied by diplomatic
efforts to keep peace and security in  Syria .” He called on
Assad to step down, and renewed his country’s rejection of a
military intervention in Syria.  “It has to be a peaceful revolution, the Tunisian
revolution was a peaceful revolution,” Tunisian Foreign
Minister Rafik Abdelssalem said.  Saad Eddin Ottoman, the Moroccan foreign minister, said his
country is against arming the Syrian opposition. “We reject
arming the opposition in order not to lead Syria into civil
war,” he said in an interview.  While the U.S. has repeatedly said it is against
militarizing the conflict, administration officials have
signaled openness to offering broader support than just
humanitarian aid.  President  Barack Obama  said yesterday the international
community is “going to keep the pressure up and look for every
tool available to prevent the slaughter of innocents.”  Calls for Arms  It’s “absolutely imperative for the international
community to rally,” to send a clear message to the Assad
regime, Obama said after meeting with Danish Prime Minister
Helle Thorning-Schmidt at the White House.  Republican lawmakers in Congress yesterday raised the
pressure on the administration to act more aggressively. Arizona
Senator  John McCain , the top Republican on the Senate Armed
Services Committee, called for the White House to arm the Syrian
rebels and provide them with military support.  “What is needed urgently are tangible actions by the
community of responsible nations to ensure that the Syrian
people have the means to protect themselves against their
attackers,” McCain said in a statement issued with Senators
Lindsey Graham, a South Carolina Republican, and  Joe Lieberman ,
an independent from  Connecticut . “This assistance should
include access to weapons, tactical intelligence, communications
equipment, financing, and medical supplies,” the senators said.  Israel Considerations  Riad Kahwaji, director of the Institute for Near East &
Gulf Military Analysis in Dubai, said if other countries funnel
weapons to the opposition, it is likely to be anti-armor or
anti-aircraft weapons needed to take out tanks and aircraft.  Kahwaji said one reason the U.S. doesn’t back arming the
opposition may be Syria’s proximity to  Israel .  “If the situation worsens in Syria, the government
collapses, there is a fear that militias and armed groups will
spread and risk turning into an insurgency that may spill over
into the  Golan Heights ,” Kahwaji said in a phone interview
today. “If Syria was not on Israel’s border there would have
been military intervention yesterday.”  The death toll in the Syrian government’s crackdown on
protests has risen to about 8,500, according to the Arab
Organization for Human Rights. Assad’s government says “armed
terrorist groups” with foreign support are responsible for the
violence.  Aid Hubs  The Friends group challenged Assad to stop his assault on
cities by declaring its immediate readiness to deliver aid as
soon as the bombardment stops. The group announced a structure,
led by the UN, with operational hubs in Jordan, Lebanon and
 Turkey  to deliver aid.  Qatari Foreign Minister Hamad Jassim bin Jabr al-Thani and
Turkish Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  urged creation of
humanitarian corridors to get aid to besieged Syrians.  Clinton denounced Russian and Chinese support for Assad.  “It’s quite distressing to see two permanent members of
the  Security Council  using their veto while people are being
murdered -- women, children, brave young men -- houses are being
destroyed,” she said. “It is just despicable and I ask whose
side are they on? They are clearly not on the side of the Syrian
people.”  Homeland for All  Burhan Ghalioun, president of the Syrian National Council,
an umbrella group of regime opponents, told the council that
“the new Syria will not be the property of any sect,
denomination or group, rather it will be a homeland for all
citizens equally.” He appealed to Syria’s Christian and Kurdish
minorities, assuring them their rights would be respected.  He later told reporters that the conference didn’t meet the
ambitions of the Syrian people and that more work needed to be
done. Opposition groups in the besieged city of Homs addressed
the conference by video link.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  