-- ‘Reprehensible’ Market Conduct Isn’t All Criminal, Holder Says
-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n   a n d   I a n   T h o m a s
-- 2012-02-24T15:36:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/-reprehensible-market-conduct-isn-t-all-criminal-holder-says.html
While conduct that contributed to
the 2008 market collapse was “morally reprehensible,” it
wasn’t necessarily criminal, said U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder.  In remarks made yesterday at  Columbia University  in  New
York , Holder said he understands “the public desire to, as one
pundit put it, ’see the handcuffs come to  Wall Street .”’  “We’ve found that much of the conduct that led to the
financial crisis was unethical and irresponsible,” Holder said
without specifying the activities he was describing. “But we
also have discovered that some of this behavior, while morally
reprehensible, may not necessarily have been criminal.”  The Obama administration has faced criticism from some
Democratic lawmakers for not bringing more prosecutions related
to the market collapse. President  Barack Obama  announced the
creation of a Justice Department unit to investigate misconduct
in the bundling of  mortgage loans  into securities in his State
of the Union speech on Jan. 24.  ‘Civil Sanctions’  The  Justice Department  “will not hesitate to bring
prosecutions” where there’s evidence of criminal wrongdoing,
Holder said. “When we don’t, we will continue to use other
tools available to us, such as civil sanctions, to hold people
and institutions accountable.”  Holder told his audience of law students, faculty and
others that the Dodd-Frank Act, the regulatory overhaul enacted
in 2010, is “so important right now” because “we had in place
regulations that existed since the Great Depression, and for
whatever reason we started to dismantle that in the 1990s.”  On a different issue, Holder said the suspected terrorists
detained at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, remain in limbo “because
Congress won’t let us act.”  He said that if the trial of the self-described mastermind
of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks had been allowed to
take place in a civilian court in  New York City , “the case
would have been done.”  The criminal case against Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and four
alleged accomplices was returned in April to the military
commissions system, after the administration abandoned plans to
try the case in federal court in New York.  Not allowing the civilian trial was “a fundamental
mistake,” Holder said, adding that “New York could handle the
case.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seth Stern in Washington at   sstern14@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Thomas in New York at   ithomas15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  and;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 