-- La Nina Conditions Are ‘Going Away,’ Meteorologist Says
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-02-24T23:12:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/la-nina-conditions-are-going-away-usda-meteorologist-says.html
The weather pattern known as La Nina
has peaked in intensity and may start to fade, said Brad Rippey,
a meteorologist with the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  “La Nina is going away,” Rippey said today during a
presentation at a USDA forum in Arlington, Virginia. “We’re
going back into neutral territory in spring and summer months.
As we head into summer, the effect of La Nina should wane.”  La Ninas are usually indicated by a cooling of surface
water in the  Pacific Ocean  that can intensify global weather
patterns. They often are marked by drier-than-normal conditions
in the southwest from late summer through winter.  The National Weather Service Climate Prediction Center
expects the effects of La Nina to continue over the next few
months even as the episode weakens, including dry conditions
over the southern tier of the U.S.  Drought in the southwest, including much of Louisiana and
 Texas , may intensify, Michael J. Hayes, the director of the
 National Drought Mitigation Center  at the University of
 Nebraska , said during a panel discussion. In August,  Texas A&M
University  estimated that the drought, the worst in the state’s
history, had caused $5.2 billion in agricultural losses.  The recent November-through-January span was the sixth-
warmest in recorded U.S. history, Rippey said. The four warmest
have all taken place since 1998, while the other was 1933-1934,
during the Dust Bowl.  This year’s mild winter has also led to dry conditions, and
farmers may need to draw water from reserve reservoirs, Rippey
said. There also may be wildfire conditions in particularly dry
areas, such as eastern  New Mexico  and west Texas, he said. The
Corn Belt in Ohio and Indiana should see ample precipitation
through March as farmers prepare fields for planting, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  