-- Global Hedge Fund Assets May Rise 12% to Record, Deutsche Bank Survey Says
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2012-02-24T07:57:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/aia-group-full-year-profit-drops-41-shares-gain-as-new-business-expands.html
Global hedge fund assets may rise 12
percent this year to a record $2.26 trillion as investors reduce
cash and seek returns, according to an annual survey of
investors by  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)   The industry may see $250 billion of net inflows and
performance gains this year, according to the survey. The number
of investors with 10 percent to 30 percent of their holdings in
cash is expected to halve in the next six months, helping free
up $39 billion for potential hedge fund investments, the survey
showed.  Investors are betting on positive returns and growth in
hedge funds even after market selloffs followed by “quick and
exaggerated snapbacks” made it difficult for many managers to
consistently make money last year, according to the report.
Hedge funds globally  lost  5 percent on average, the second-worst
annual return since Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc. began
to track data in 1990.  “Performance is key in a low-yield environment,” said
Anita Nemes, London-based global head of capital introductions
in Deutsche Bank’s  prime  finance division, in an e-mailed
statement. “Institutional investors recognize the potential for
strong hedge fund returns in 2012.”  Deutsche Bank in December polled 392 investors who
controlled $1.35 trillion of hedge fund assets, including
pensions, foundations, endowments, government organizations,
funds of funds, private banks, investment consultants and family
offices.  Cash Holdings  The same survey last year had predicted industry assets to
reached $2.25 trillion at the end of 2011 with $210 billion of
inflows.  Hedge funds  globally ended the year with $2.01 trillion,
this year’s report said.  About 48 percent of investors were holding more than 5
percent of their investments in cash going into 2012, compared
with 30 percent a year earlier, as they prepared to re-allocate
their investments, according to the survey.  “Hedge funds underperformed in 2011 as an asset class, but
on a relative basis proved their worth with respect to the
preservation of capital,” said Harvey Twomey, the bank’s Hong
Kong-based Asia-Pacific head of prime finance sales. “The asset
class has started the year in a strong fashion and many funds
are on track to deliver against 2012 performance targets.”  Net inflows into the global industry may amount to $140
billion this year, said the report.  Larger Managers  Investors in the survey on average expect the  HFRI Fund-
Weighted Composite Index (HFRIFWI)  to return 6 percent this year, trailing
a possible 6.4 percent rise in the  S&P 500 Index  but limiting
losses in severe downturns, the report said.  One-third of all investors in the survey increased hedge
fund allocations last year. Forty percent of pensions expanded
their hedge fund investments by at least $500 million last year,
according to the report.  Investors will continue to show preference for larger
managers overseeing more than $1 billion, helped by
outperformance by some of them in 2011 and as more institutions
allocate directly to hedge funds instead of going through funds
of hedge funds, the survey showed.  About 44 percent of the investors surveyed already allocate
to managers running more than $1 billion of assets. Yet 65
percent of the respondents said they would give money to smaller
hedge funds as larger managers reach their capacity and smaller,
more nimble managers promise higher returns, it added.  About 86 percent of the investors in the survey plan to
maintain or increase their allocations to  Asia  outside of  Japan 
this year, said Twomey.  Asia-focused hedge funds  lost  on average 8.5 percent last
year, according to Singapore-based data provider Eurekahedge Pte.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  