-- AIG Rises as Insurer Posts Record Profit on Tax Benefit
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-02-24T21:03:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/aig-posts-19-8-billion-profit-on-tax-benefit-aia-stake.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the bailed-out insurer, climbed after citing a return to
“sustainable operating profit” as it booked a tax benefit that
fueled record earnings.  AIG advanced 1.5 percent to $28.40 at 4:01 p.m. in New
York, after rising as high as $30.09 earlier in the day. The
government needs to divest its whole stake for an average of at
least $28.72 a share to recoup taxpayer funds. The shares have
closed below the break-even price on the New York Stock Exchange
every day since late July.  The insurer now projects that it will generate enough
profit to use tax assets, tied to prior losses, that can limit
future payments to the government. AIG’s biggest unit, property-
casualty insurer Chartis, and its plane-leasing business swung
to operating profits in the fourth quarter, the New York-based
company said in a statement yesterday as it posted  net income  of
$19.8 billion.  “You’re definitely going to get a bounce” in the share
price, Josh Stirling, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.,
said in a telephone interview yesterday. “The question is, How
long and how sustainable is it?” He has a “market perform”
rating on AIG.  The insurer, which booked a $17.7 billion tax benefit in
the quarter, is among companies posting accounting gains as they
return to profit after the recession. Ford Motor Co. said last
month that it was removing a valuation allowance, created in
2006 as it began reporting operating losses, against deferred
tax assets, because it expects future profits. The benefit
contributed $12.4 billion to the automaker’s $13.6 billion of
net income in the fourth quarter.  Remaining Businesses  After-tax operating income at AIG was $1.56 billion in the
three months ended Dec. 31, compared with a loss of $2.21
billion a year earlier, according to the statement. Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , 67, cited improvements at
the company’s units and confidence in future earnings as part of
the determination to record the tax benefit.  Chartis had fourth-quarter operating income of $348
million, compared with a loss of $3.97 billion a year earlier,
when the unit took a charge of more than $4 billion because
reserves proved inadequate. International Lease Finance Corp.,
the plane-leasing business, had operating profit of $119 million
compared with a loss of $606 million a year earlier as
impairments declined.  The results “confirmed its return to sustainable operating
profit for the full year,” AIG said in a regulatory filing
yesterday. “This, together with the emergence from cumulative
losses in recent years and projections of sufficient future
taxable income, represents significant positive evidence” that
it will be able to use the deferred tax assets.  Full-Year Profit  Full-year net income of $17.8 billion compares with a $7.8
billion profit in 2010, when the company posted gains on the
sale of American Life Insurance Co. and two-thirds of AIA Group
Ltd. Book value per share, a measure of assets minus
liabilities, rose to $55.33 on Dec. 31 from $45.30 three months
earlier, on the tax benefit, AIG said.  “These companies always trade off their book value,”
Gloria Vogel, an analyst at Drexel Hamilton LLC who advises
clients to buy AIG shares, said in a phone interview yesterday.
“The fact that they grew book value 22 percent” will be viewed
favorably by investors.  The Treasury reduced its  ownership  of AIG in May to 77
percent by selling 200 million shares for $29 each in a public
offering. AIG was rescued in 2008 as bets on the mortgage market
soured. The bailout was revised at least four times, swelling to
$182.3 billion as the U.S. extended more credit and lowered the
interest charged.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  