-- Mail.Ru Rises to 13-Month High as Profit Tripling Boosts Outlook
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-02-24T18:19:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/mail-ru-ceo-says-profit-margins-of-50-expected-this-year-1-.html
Mail.ru Group Ltd. (MAIL) , the largest
Russian-language  Internet company , soared to a 13-month high
after reporting a tripling in second-half net income and
forecasting margins of 50 percent this year.  Global depositary receipts of Mail.ru, which holds stakes
in Internet companies  Facebook Inc. (FB) , Groupon Inc. and Zynga
Inc., jumped 8.2 percent to close at $38.20 in  London , the
highest level since Jan. 26, 2011. The GDRs are up 47 percent in
2012, the best start to a year since the stock started trading
in November 2010.  Net income in the second half of 2011 rose to $122.9
million from a year earlier, while revenue increased 53 percent
to $286.8 million, the Moscow-based company said in a statement
today. Mail.ru is “very comfortable” with an outlook for
margin, a measure of profitability, of 50 percent for this year
and saw more revenue from advertising than it expected in the
fourth quarter, Chief Executive Officer Dmitry Grishin said.  “Today’s trading update is strong and the company’s
outlook is favorable,” David Ferguson and Anastasia Demidova,
Moscow-based analysts at brokerage  Renaissance Capital , wrote in
a report e-mailed today. “We see scope for further share-price
outperformance from Mail.”  The company plans to reinvest some of the margin, Grishin
said on a conference call for investors today.  Mail.ru is currently testing a multimedia blogging service,
Chief Operating Officer Verdi Israelian said during the call.  “The service is at an early stage,” Israelian said. “We
are very happy with early results.”  The company plans to hone its focus on developing products,
including games, for mobile devices as that segment of the
market has the potential to drive user growth in the long term,
he said.  American depositary receipts of  Yandex NV (YNDX) , Russia’s most
popular search engine and a Mail.ru competitor, slipped 1.2
percent to $22.70 by 12:47 p.m. in  New York .  Renaissance continues to prefer Mail.ru stock over Yandex,
the analysts said in their report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  