-- Snowstorms, Cloud Cover Cause Air Delays in Eastern U.S.
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-02-24T21:40:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/air-traffic-delays-may-linger-into-tomorrow.html
Snowstorms, cloud cover and
tornadoes in the eastern half of the U.S. caused air traffic
delays from Chicago to  New York  and  Washington , and wind may
snarl traffic in the East tomorrow.  More than 540 U.S. flights were canceled today, according
to FlightAware, a Houston-based tracking service. High winds
expected in New York overnight may cause more travel difficulty,
said Paul Walker, a meteorologist with  AccuWeather Inc.  in State
College,  Pennsylvania .  A high wind warning goes into effect at 10 p.m. New York
time until 6 p.m. tomorrow, meaning winds of 40 miles (63
kilometers) per hour are possible along with gusts of 60 mph,
the  National Weather Service  said.  “The worst of the wind is expected very late tonight,”
said Dan Hofmann, a meteorologist with the agency in Upton, New
York. “It will stay windy through the day tomorrow.”  The winds may be strong enough to tear down trees, branches
and  power lines , Hoffman said by telephone.  “Driving will be difficult, especially in high-profile
vehicles and on elevated roads and bridges,” the weather
service said. “Unsecured outdoor items such as trash cans can
also be easily blow about.”  High wind watches and wind advisories are in effect from
New Hampshire to Florida.  Air traffic was delayed by more than 2.5 hours at Newark’s
Liberty International Airport as of 4 p.m., and at LaGuardia and
Washington National by about an hour, according to the  Federal
Aviation Administration ’s website. Delays were also reported in
Charlotte,  North Carolina , and Philadelphia, the agency said.  The storm left snow across the Midwest and southern Canada
and sparked a tornado watch from southern Maryland to  Florida .
At least two tornadoes were confirmed in South Carolina and
there were at least 61 reports of wind damage across the
southern U.S., according to the  Storm Prediction Center  in
Norman, Oklahoma.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  