-- Ally Said to Add Cerberus Manager as ResCap Stalls Car Lender’s Turnaround
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r
-- 2012-02-24T14:44:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/ally-said-to-add-cerberus-manager-as-rescap-stalls-car-lender-s-turnaround.html
Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , the largest
U.S. auto lender, enlisted Cerberus Capital Management LP’s
Lenard Tessler to help oversee turnaround efforts and salvage
the government’s $17.2 billion investment, four people with
knowledge of the matter said.  Tessler, 59, is a former director of Detroit-based Ally and
remains an adviser to the bank’s board. His assignment follows a
U.S. suggestion this month that the bailed-out lender name
someone to help restructure the money-losing Residential Capital
mortgage unit and get Ally’s public stock offering back on
course, according to the people, who asked for anonymity because
the discussions were private.  “This guy is the latest in a long line of advisers,” said
Adam Steer, an analyst at Brookfield Investment Management Inc.,
whose parent Brookfield Asset Management Inc. oversees about
$150 billion in assets. “It’s the same story again and again,”
Steer said. “No matter who’s looking at it, the overwhelming
issue is that ResCap is effectively insolvent.”  Chief Executive Officer  Michael Carpenter  is searching for
ways to repay the U.S. after President  Barack Obama  vowed in
2009 to recover “every last dime” of taxpayer bailout money.
Carpenter, who once predicted that a pending IPO could value
Ally at $30 billion, said this month the sale won’t happen until
there’s progress on mortgages, and people with knowledge of the
matter have said a ResCap bankruptcy is being considered.  While the U.S. Treasury Department had asked Ally to
consider putting a full-time executive in charge of
restructuring, Ally envisions Tessler in a part-time role with
no formal title, two of the people said.  Tessler’s Background  Tessler is a managing director and co-head of private
equity at Cerberus, the New York-based investment firm that
controls 8.7 percent of Ally. He serves on the Cerberus
investment committee along with co-founder and CEO  Stephen Feinberg , 51, who sits on Ally’s board.  Cerberus had been the majority holder before the U.S. took
control in 2008 to stave off collapse at Ally, then known as
GMAC. Tessler was a GMAC director from November 2006 to March
2009. GMAC was the financing arm of General Motors Corp. until
2006, when Cerberus engineered a buyout. Cerberus then lost
control of the lender during the financial crisis as losses on
subprime home loans mounted.  The U.S. determined that GMAC was crucial to the survival
of the  auto industry  because of its role in financing purchases
and provided multiple bailouts in return for a 74 percent stake.
Ally said this month it ranked No. 1 in financing U.S. consumer
auto sales for 2011 with more than $40 billion in contracts for
new or used cars and trucks, or about 1.5 million vehicles.
After returning to profit in 2010, the company posted losses in
the final two quarters of 2011.  ResCap’s Fate  Carpenter, 64, who took over as CEO in November 2009, filed
plans for an IPO last March to help repay the bailout. The sale
has since stalled, and Carpenter told analysts on Feb. 2 that
“realistically, until we’ve made some progress on the mortgage
issue, we’re not going to go out into the marketplace.”  Once ranked among the largest originators of so-called
subprime and Alt-A mortgages, ResCap reported more than $14.5
billion in losses from the start of 2007 to the end of 2009. The
auto business, while profitable, hasn’t generated enough gains
to offset losses in the mortgage business.  Treasury officials discussed whether someone other than
Carpenter was needed to focus on a turnaround, and Assistant
Treasury Secretary Tim Massad floated the idea this month of
hiring  Harry Wilson , a former adviser to Obama’s Auto Task
Force, three people said. Wilson helped revive Detroit-based GM
and founded his own restructuring firm.  Deferring to Ally  Carpenter disagreed with Treasury’s suggestion, the people
said. The CEO was concerned that Wilson and his ties to the
Treasury might encroach on Carpenter’s authority, according to
two of the people. Carpenter was supported at a February board
meeting by Cerberus CEO Feinberg, the people said.  Ally instead chose Tessler, who won’t be paid, and Massad
deferred to the bank’s decision, according to two of the people.
The Treasury and Massad typically try to avoid active roles at
companies in which the U.S. holds a stake, two people said.  “Ally has a very constructive relationship with the  U.S.
Treasury  and has ongoing communication on a number of matters,
as would be expected between management and its largest
shareholder,” said  Gina Proia , a spokeswoman for the bank.
“Ally has not appointed a restructuring executive and the Ally
board has not considered doing so.”  Buyers and Bankruptcy  Tim Price , a Cerberus spokesman, and Treasury’s  Matt
Anderson  declined to comment. The agency said in an October
 report  that officials would focus on exiting auto-industry
investments, including Ally, “in the months ahead.” At the
time of the report, Treasury had received a total of $5.1
billion from dividend payments and the sale of Ally securities.  “It’s all good that they are doing this,”  Christopher Whalen , a senior managing director at Tangent Capital Partners
LLC, said of Tessler’s role. “We need finality on ResCap.”  ResCap talked with private-equity firms including Cerberus
about buying the unit in a pre-packaged bankruptcy, people with
knowledge of the matter said this month. Tessler may have to
negotiate with a ResCap bondholder group that includes John Paulson’s Paulson & Co., David Tepper’s Appaloosa Management LP
and Boston-based Loomis Sayles & Co. The group has expressed
opposition to any plan placing ResCap in bankruptcy.  Chrysler Deal  Tessler also may help ensure that Ally doesn’t lose
business from Chrysler Group LLC, which has a preferred-lender
arrangement with Ally that expires next year. The Chrysler tie
generates $50 billion annually in originations and Ally would be
less valuable without it, one person said.  Chrysler is in talks with lenders, Ally included, about
forming a captive finance arm as a joint venture, similar to one
Fiat SpA has in  Europe  with Credit Agricole SA, two people
familiar with the matter said this month.  Tessler’s role and Feinberg’s place on Ally’s board may
present a conflict of interest if Cerberus bids for ResCap. A
group of investors led by the buyout firm holds 8.7 percent of
Ally after U.S. bailouts diluted the 51 percent stake acquired
from GM for $7.4 billion in 2006. Tessler’s role also may bump
up against federal limits on the private-equity firm’s control.  “Neither Cerberus nor any affiliated entity will have any
advisory relationships with GMAC or any investor regarding the
vote or sale of shares or the management or policies of GMAC,”
according to a Dec. 24, 2008 order from the  Federal Reserve  that
made GMAC a bank holding company.  Confidential Data  In addition to Cerberus, ResCap and its financial advisers
have contacted Fortress Investment Group LLC, Centerbridge
Capital Partners LLC and Leucadia National Corp. to gauge their
interest in purchasing the Minneapolis-based unit, people
familiar with the matter said this month.  ResCap contacted advisers for the bondholders group this
week and asked them to sign confidentiality agreements in return
for material, non-public information about ResCap’s plans,
according to another person briefed on the discussions. The
bondholders have hired  Houlihan Lokey  as their financial
adviser, the person said.  Earlier this month, ResCap’s lawyers at  Morrison & Foerster
LLP  asked the bondholder group to consider providing debtor-in-
possession financing during the bankruptcy, and nondisclosure
agreements were exchanged, the person said.  Dennis Moore, a spokesman for Houlihan, said he couldn’t
comment. A call for comment to Morrison & Foerster’s Eileen King
wasn’t returned.  Public Offering  The Treasury and Ally are becoming concerned about the
status of the public offering and delay in bolstering the
company’s liquidity and capital position, said one person. While
multiple parties have approached the agency about acquiring
pieces of Ally and effectively breaking it up, Treasury has
turned away the inquiries so far, the person said.  “The government is behaving as a logical investor,”
Carpenter told analysts on Feb. 2. “They would like to get
liquidity, and we would like to have them have liquidity, but
they are also interested in getting value.”  In 2011, when Ally was close to a public offering, the
company considered a joint bid from GM and  Toronto-Dominion
Bank (TD) ,  Canada ’s second-largest lender, but the discussions didn’t
lead to a sale, said another person with direct knowledge of the
matter. Stephen Knight, a spokesman for the Toronto-based bank,
and Renee Rashid-Merem, a GM spokeswoman, didn’t comment on
whether their firms made an offer.  Selling Pieces  Wells Fargo & Co. may be a buyer for Ally’s North American
auto-finance business, and the online banking unit could be sold
for about $1 billion, according to a Feb. 20 report from KBW
Inc. analysts including Fred Cannon.  “ Ally Financial  is still keeping all options on the
table,” the analysts wrote, citing the government’s desire to
recover bailout funds disbursed by the Troubled Asset Relief
Program. “We do know the Treasury is looking to wind down its
TARP program in the near future, which could mean recouping
investment in Ally.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 