-- Lampert Gains $160 Million on Sears Shares
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2012-02-24T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/lampert-gains-160-million-buying-sears-shares-from-ziffs.html
Edward Lampert , the hedge fund
manager who controls  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD) , has more than $160
million in paper profits on shares of the retailer acquired last
month from a long-standing client, the Ziff family.  The billionaire paid $130 million in early January to
personally acquire Sears shares from ESL Investors LLC, a
partnership he runs for the Ziffs that follows the same strategy
as his hedge fund, according to court documents and regulatory
filings. The retailer’s stock has more than doubled since then,
rebounding from a three-year low and ranking as the best-
performing member of the benchmark  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index.  The Ziffs, heirs to a publishing fortune who backed hedge
fund managers  Jim Chanos  and  Bill Ackman  early in their careers,
provided Lampert with some of the capital he used to buy and
then merge Kmart Corp. with Sears, Roebuck & Co. to create  Sears
Holdings . Lampert revamped his investment partnership with the
Ziffs and bought back some of their Sears stock after the
retailer faltered in 2011, regulatory filings show.  “The client wants out of the fund and he is choosing to
reduce their exposure personally,” said James Hedges, a former
money manager who said he knows Lampert and now runs Montage
Finance, a New York-based art finance firm. “Or they want
liquidity and he still likes the position.”  Representatives for Lampert and Ziff Brothers Investments
LLC declined to comment. The Ziff brothers, including Dirk,
Robert and Daniel, set up their New York-based firm in 1993,
prior to the $1.4 billion sale of their father William Ziff’s
magazine company, the onetime publisher of titles such as Car
and Driver, PC Magazine and PCWeek.  Kmart Financing  Lampert, who has never publicly identified the clients in
ESL Investors, set up the limited liability company in 1999 for
the Ziffs to invest alongside his main hedge fund, ESL Partners
LP, in stocks such as  AutoZone Inc. (AZO) ,  Gap Inc. (GPS)  and Sears, court
records and government documents show. The Ziff partnership
provided $14 million in cash and $235 million of the Kmart debt
that Lampert used to acquire a controlling stake in the discount
chain through its 2003 bankruptcy reorganization, according to a
regulatory filing that May.  Two years later, Kmart bought Sears Roebuck for $12.3
billion and Lampert, now 49, became chairman of the combined
company. Lampert and his Greenwich, Connecticut-based firm, ESL
Investments Inc., currently control about 57 percent of Sears’
common stock.  Sears shares have lost more than two-thirds of their value
since peaking at $188.94 in April 2007, even after rallying 19
percent yesterday to $61.80 in  New York . The drop has made it
difficult for Lampert to replicate the average annual returns of
about 25 percent that he produced at ESL Partners during its
first 14 years of operation, according to two people with
knowledge of the fund’s results.  Cashing Out  ESL Partners fell 4 percent in the first nine months of
last year, according to the people, who requested anonymity
because the information is confidential, besting the S&P 500’s
8.7 percent decline after dividends. The fund rose 16 percent
and 55 percent in 2010 and 2009, respectively, after slumping 33
percent in 2008 and 27 percent in 2007, the people said.  The hedge fund reported that some investors were cashing
out at the end of 2011, a step that’s difficult to take at ESL
Partners because Lampert requires clients to wait at least five
years before withdrawing any money, according to three people
familiar with the firm, who asked not to be named because its
terms aren’t public. Lampert disclosed a restructuring of the
Ziff partnership, including the “termination” of his
management firm’s financial interest in the vehicle, through a
Jan. 3 filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Decline in Revenue  Lampert’s investors got more bad news on Dec. 27, when
Sears said its same-store sales fell 5.2 percent during the
holiday season and that management would shutter as many as 120
locations. The stock dropped 27 percent that day to $33.38, and
declined to $29.20, the lowest closing in more than three years,
on Jan. 6, a day after Standard & Poor’s cut the company’s
credit ratings two notches into deeper junk territory.  On the following Monday, Lampert bought 4.46 million Sears
shares from ESL Investors at the $29.20 price for about $130
million, according to a Form 4 with the SEC on Jan. 11. The Ziff
partnership also paid Lampert’s management fee on Jan. 11 by
transferring an additional 573,184 Sears shares, with a market
value of about $18.9 million, to his firm in lieu of cash, the
filing showed.  Since then, Sears has  soared  amid speculation Lampert might
take the company private and yesterday’s announcement that the
retailer would raise as much as $770 million by selling real
estate and separating some smaller-format businesses. The 5
million shares that Lampert and his management unit received
from the Ziffs are now valued at about $309 million.  Previous Transfer  A precedent for this type of internal transaction occurred
five years ago. After peaking on April 17, 2007, Sears shares
began to slip and then plunged 10 percent on July 10, the
largest decline in more than four years, as the company said
profit for the second fiscal quarter would fall as much as 46
percent from the same period in 2006.  Three weeks later, on Aug. 1, Lampert transferred 3.41
million shares held by the Ziff partnership to his main hedge
fund, according to a Form 4 filed with the SEC. In return, the
hedge fund sent $466.7 million to the partnership, or $136.79 a
share. The fund has an unrealized loss of almost $256 million on
the stock received from the Ziffs.  Cross Trades  ESL said in its Form 4 filing that the 2007 transfers were
made “in connection with a portfolio rebalancing,” a term
money managers use when they shift securities between funds to
balance their respective holdings in a particular company,
industry or asset class. With Lampert’s main fund about to
receive a $3.5 billion investment from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
clients, the transfer of Sears shares helped Lampert balance the
stakes that ESL Partners and ESL Investors held in the retailer,
according to a person familiar with the situation who requested
anonymity because the transactions were private.  When an adviser has one of his funds sell assets to another
in what is known as a “cross trade,” such as the 2007 transfer
between ESL Partners and ESL Investors, securities rules
generally mandate advance disclosure and consent, unless
approval is given on a blanket basis when clients sign up. The
rules also say managers should ensure the price is fair for both
the buyer and the seller.  Greenlight Capital Inc., the firm run by  David Einhorn , may
rebalance portfolios when its  hedge funds  have accepted new
“material” contributions or experienced net withdrawals or
other capital changes, according to a Jan. 25 brochure on file
with the SEC. Greenlight “generally will not rebalance any
security or position,” the firm said, if it is affiliated with
the company that issued the security or any of its funds own
more than 10 percent of that company “for passive positions.”  Disclosure to Clients  ESL Investments disclosed the 2007 transfer between the
main hedge fund and the Ziff partnership to its clients ahead of
time and received their approval, according to the person
familiar with the transaction. The firm also said the transfer
would lead to a temporarily high concentration of Sears stock in
the hedge fund, exceeding 30 percent of net assets, until the
cash from Goldman Sachs clients came in.  Lampert’s purchase of Sears shares from the Ziff
partnership in January was carried out within the framework of
an existing agreement between the money manager and his client,
said two people with knowledge of the transaction. That purchase
helped Lampert maintain a balance between his personal stake in
Sears and his hedge fund’s holding in the retailer, one of these
people said.  Moving the Market  Open-market sales could have hurt the share price for two
reasons. An average of only about 714,000 Sears shares traded on
a daily basis last year, less than one-tenth of  Target Corp. (TGT) ’s
volume, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Securities
rules would require Lampert to report sales by ESL Investors
under his own name as well, potentially making it appear as if
the company’s chairman was bailing out.  “He controls so much that any transparent trading activity
will move the market,” said Jay Gould, head of the investment
funds practice in the San Francisco office of the law firm
 Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP (1146L) . “You could make a pretty
good case to say that doing it in a private transaction is the
most fair way” to sell the Ziffs’ shares.  Before starting his hedge fund in April 1988, Lampert
worked under former U.S. Treasury Secretary  Robert Rubin  in the
risk arbitrage department of Goldman Sachs, as did Daniel Och,
the chief executive officer of  Och-Ziff Capital Management Group
LLC (OZM) , and Richard Perry, the head of Perry Corp. Dirk Ziff, the
oldest of the three brothers, was an intern at Goldman Sachs and
later provided capital to all three managers through the family
investment firm.  Spreading the Wealth  In December 1997, Institutional Investor magazine reported
that Ziff Brothers Investments had combined stakes of $2.8
billion with 15 different money managers, including Kynikos
Associates Ltd., the short-selling firm set up by Chanos, and
Gotham Partners, the real estate partnership that Ackman once
ran with David Berkowitz. The Ziffs committed $100 million to
ESL after Dirk read about a proxy fight that Lampert waged on
behalf of Richard Rainwater at Honeywell Inc. in 1989, according
to the article.  ZAM Holdings LP was the parent of ESL Investors, according
to a Dec. 15, 2008,  lawsuit  by the U.S. Justice Department and
Federal Trade Commission accusing Lampert’s hedge fund as well
as ZAM of violating technical reporting provisions of U.S.
antitrust laws. ZAM is an investment fund managed by Ziff
Brothers Investments, according to an April 2005 SEC filing by
Asia Pacific Resources Ltd.  The Ziff firm’s ownership of ESL Investors was confirmed by
a person familiar with the situation, who requested anonymity
because the family’s investment activities are private.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  