-- American Parent AMR Seeks to Reject Paying on Dallas-Area Airport Bonds
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2012-02-24T23:51:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/amr-wants-to-stop-paying-1-billion-in-debt-used-to-finance-its-facilities.html
AMR Corp. (AMR)  and its American Airlines
unit, the third-largest U.S. carrier, want to stop paying on $1
billion of municipal bonds that financed Dallas-area airport
facilities without giving up their use.  The company asked a U.S. Bankruptcy judge in New York to
let it reject facilities agreements at Dallas- Fort Worth 
International and Alliance Airport, according to a court
document. Under the arrangements, American makes payments on
revenue bonds used to pay for such things as passenger gates.  AMR examined its costs under the agreements and “concluded
these obligations constitute an unnecessary ongoing expense”
and decided that rejecting the agreements was “in the best
interests” of the company, according to the Feb. 23 filing.  “If AMR is rejecting the leases, it may just be a
negotiating tactic to get better terms,” said Phil Villaluz,
managing director of municipal research at Sterne Agee & Leach
Inc. in  New York .  American previously announced plans to close a maintenance
facility at Alliance, which is mostly used to transport freight
and is owned by the city of Fort Worth. The carrier plans to
keep operating at Dallas-Fort Worth International.  Other Agreements Unaffected  “The motion to reject the special facility revenue bond
facilities agreements at DFW and AFW does not relate to our
leases of space and premises at those airports,”  Sean Collins ,
an AMR spokesman, said by e-mail.  Prices rose for some American-backed bonds for Dallas-Fort
Worth, after falling as much as 68 percent following AMR’s
Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing Nov. 29, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. A bond maturing in May 2029 traded at an average
of 26.75 cents on the dollar today, up from 26 cents on the
dollar on Feb. 2, the data show.  The airports bear no responsibility for airline special
facilities bonds, which are obligations of companies such as AMR
under agreements put in place when the debt is sold. Pursuant to
each deal, “ American Airlines  agreed to make payments
sufficient in amounts to pay, when due, the principal of and
interest on, the special facility revenue bonds,” the company
said in the court document.  American has separate agreements under which it is a tenant
of the airports, and these aren’t affected by AMR’s request.  Daily Operations  “This doesn’t have any impact on DFW’s daily operations or
its capital program,’ David Magana, a spokesman for the airport,
said today by telephone.  William Welstead, acting director of Fort Worth’s aviation
department, declined to comment.  AMR and American sold the tax-exempt facilities bonds
through airports and municipal authorities to pay for such
things as maintenance hangars in New York,  Los Angeles ,  Dallas 
and other cities. About $3.2 billion of the debt was outstanding
when American became the final large U.S. full-fare airline to
seek court protection following the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks. It listed $29.6 billion in debts and $24.7 billion of
assets in documents filed yesterday.  The case is in Re: AMR Corp. el al, 11-15463 (SHL), United
States  Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  