-- Anadarko Wins Ruling Barring Evidence in BP Oil-Spill Trial
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-02-25T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/anadarko-wins-court-ruling-excluding-evidence-in-bp-spill-trial-next-week.html
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , partner of
 BP Plc (BP/)  in the Macondo well project that led to the  Gulf of
Mexico  oil spill in 2010, persuaded a judge to bar evidence
about its knowledge of the well’s operations from the first
phase of a trial that begins Feb. 27.  “Evidence of Anadarko’s knowledge of or access to
information about Macondo well design and/or operations is
irrelevant to any issue in the Phase I trial,” U.S. District
Judge  Carl Barbier  in  New Orleans  ruled yesterday, according to
court papers.  The April 2010 well blowout and  explosion  killed 11 workers
and caused the worst offshore oil spill in U.S. history. The
accident spurred hundreds of lawsuits against London-based BP
and its partners, including  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  and Anadarko, which
owned 25 percent of the well.  The judge’s ruling yesterday prevents the evidence from
being shown in what he labeled the Phase I trial, which will
determine the legal responsibility for the blast, as well as the
ensuing fire and sinking of the drilling rig.  John Christiansen , a spokesman for Anadarko, didn’t
immediately return a call for comment on Barbier’s ruling.
Anadarko, based in The Woodlands, Texas, is the largest U.S.
independent oil and natural-gas producer by market value.  BP Settlement  Anadarko agreed in October to pay BP $4 billion to settle
claims between the two companies over the spill.  Anadarko executives said in a June 2010 statement that BP,
which operated the Macondo well, was responsible for the spill
and that the disaster was the result of recklessness. BP had
filed claims seeking to have Anadarko share in the financial
fallout from the spill.  Wyn Hornbuckle, a spokesman for the U.S. Justice
Department, said the government’s lawyers were reviewing
Barbier’s decision to exclude the Anadarko evidence.  Steve Herman , a New Orleans-based lawyer for plaintiffs suing BP and
other defendants over the spill, didn’t immediately return calls
or an e-mail seeking comment on the judge’s ruling. A spokesman
for Transocean said the company had no comment.  Pollution Violations  Earlier this week, Barbier concluded that Anadarko and BP
are liable for pollution violations under the federal Clean
Water Act. That allows regulators to seek fines of as much as
$1,100 per barrel of oil spilled into the Gulf during the
incident.  The government estimates that 4.1 million barrels were
spilled before the well was capped. BP set aside $3.5 billion
for Clean Water Act fines, assuming $1,100 a barrel and its own
estimate of 3.2 million barrels, according to an annual report
extract posted on the company website.  The case is In re  Oil Spill  by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  