-- Aniston Stays Dressed, Rudd Doesn’t in ‘Wanderlust’: Greg Evans
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2012-02-25T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/aniston-stays-dressed-rudd-doesn-t-in-wanderlust-greg-evans.html
Old stoner jokes get rehashed in
“Wanderlust,” a Paul Rudd-Jennifer Aniston comedy whose charms
are as elusive as a puff of smoke.  Seeming less written than improvised and assembled, the
film reteams Rudd with director David Wain in their follow-up to
the 2008 comedy hit “Role Models.”  Despite some nudity (not Anniston’s, despite the cheesy
publicity), “Wanderlust,” produced by  Judd Apatow  among
others, has neither the rude aggression of “Role Models” nor
the outrageous laughs of Apatow’s last blockbuster,
“Bridesmaids.”  Rudd and Aniston play George and Linda, Manhattan newlyweds
on the cusp of success when his job loss sends them on a road
trip to family in Atlanta. Veering off course for an overnight
stay at a bed and breakfast, they discover Elysium, a hippie
commune with attitudes and fashion frozen in 1971.  After a quick, unpleasant visit in Atlanta with George’s
obnoxious brother (Ken Marino, who co-wrote with Wain), they
hightail it back to Elysium, despite Linda’s misgivings.  “I like doors,” she says, setting up a running gag that
has a goat, a horse and a nude man, among other intruders,
drifting through the uptight couple’s bedroom.  Hippie Charms  Soon enough, Linda has succumbed to the charms of the
hippies -- one in particular: the handsome, smarmy, aphorism-
spouting leader (Justin Theroux). “You can’t express your
feelings by sending a letter through a fax,” says the out-of-
touch Seth, railing against such “modernisms” as floppy discs
and Walkmans.  Manhattan  starts looking better to George, who quickly
tires of Elysium’s zany residents, including an angry ex-porn
star (Kathryn Hahn), the rambling old hippie who founded the
commune ( Alan Alda ) and a pregnant Earth-mother (Lauren Ambrose).  “He’s an African-American,” says Ambrose’s Almond by way
of introducing her partner Rodney (Jordan Peele), “and we’re
just as much in love as if we were the same color.”  Such flat-footed dialogue makes cartoons of the characters,
and a weak plot about local casino owners trying to grab the
commune’s land plays like an afterthought.  Coasting yet again on his boyish likeability, Rudd at least
makes George’s growing disenchantment credible. Aniston jumps
from city slicker to moonchild so quickly one suspects heavy
editing. A scene of her character in bed with two women,
featured prominently in TV ads, isn’t in the film.  “Wanderlust” from  Universal Pictures  is playing across
the U.S. Rating: **  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 