-- Maple Extends TMX Takeover Offer to March 30 to Get Approvals
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2012-02-24T21:16:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/maple-extends-tmx-takeover-offer-to-march-30-to-get-approvals.html
A group of Canadian banks and
pension funds extended their C$3.73 billion ($3.73 billion)
offer for  TMX Group Inc. (X)  until March 30, the fifth delay as it
pursues regulatory approval for its agreement to purchase the
nation’s main equities and derivatives markets.  The takeover by Maple Group Acquisition Corp., whose 13
members include  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,  Ontario Teachers’ Pension
Plan  and  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) , requires approval from
provincial regulators and  Canada ’s Competition Bureau.  The Competition Bureau said Nov. 29 that it had “serious
concerns” about the plan in connection with equities trading
and clearing settlement, and yesterday said in a statement that
it has “no new developments to report” on its review.  Maple intends to buy 100 percent of TMX and integrate it
with the Canadian Depository for Securities Ltd. clearinghouse
and Alpha Group, a bank-owned alternative trading venue that
competes with TMX.  “Maple and TMX Group are committed to the transaction and
are working diligently to obtain the required regulatory
approvals,” the statement said. “They are in ongoing
discussions with the regulators and have made numerous
submissions to them, including a proposed CDS pricing model, and
have proposed remedies to address concerns regarding equities
trading.”  An Oct. 30 agreement between Maple and TMX says that if
conditions aren’t satisfied by the offer’s expiration date,
“Maple shall be required to extend the expiry time.” The
tender offer to buy at least 70 percent of TMX shares can be
extended up to April 30, according to the agreement. Maple first
proposed to buy the Toronto Stock Exchange owner in May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  