-- Apollo Said to Plan $5.5 Billion of Debt to Buy El Paso Oil Exploration
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   I d z e l i s
-- 2012-02-24T16:58:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/apollo-said-to-plan-5-5-billion-of-debt-to-buy-el-paso-oil-exploration.html
Apollo Global Management LLC, the
private-equity firm leading a group that’s near a deal to
purchase El Paso Corp.’s oil-exploration business, is planning
$5.5 billion of debt financing to fund the acquisition,
according to three people with knowledge of the transaction.  The financing is expected to include $3.5 billion of bonds
and a $2 billion reserve-based loan, about $1 billion of which
will be funded at closing, said the people, who declined to be
identified because no agreement has been signed.  Citigroup Inc.,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , UBS AG, Credit Suisse
Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG, Bank of Montreal, Royal Bank of
 Canada  and Nomura Holdings Inc. are expected to underwrite the
debt, the people said.  An agreement with Apollo, which is working with Riverstone
Holdings LLC and at least one other partner to purchase the El
Paso unit for about $7 billion, may be announced as soon as
today, according to a person with knowledge of the situation.
The negotiations are fluid and could still fall apart, said the
person, who declined to be named because the talks are private.  Citigroup is expected to lead the bonds backing the deal
and JPMorgan may lead the reserve-based loan, three people said.
Those roles could still change as an agreement hasn’t yet been
signed, one of the people said. A borrower’s ability to draw
funds from a reserve-based loan is based on a percentage of the
value of its oil and gas reserves.  Charles Zehren , an outside spokesman for Apollo, declined
to comment. Richard Wheatley, a spokesman for El Paso, didn’t
immediately return a phone call seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Idzelis in New York at 
 cidzelis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  