-- Apollo-Led Group Buys El Paso Unit for $7.15B
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-02-25T00:49:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/apollo-global-led-group-agrees-to-buy-el-paso-s-oil-unit-for-7-15-billion.html
A group led by  Apollo Global
Management LLC (APO)  agreed to acquire  El Paso Corp. (EP) ’s oil and natural
gas exploration business for $7.15 billion in the second-biggest
private equity takeover of an energy producer.  Apollo joins Riverstone Holdings LLC, Access Industries
Inc. and other investors in the transaction, El Paso said in a
statement today. Riverstone, based in  New York , invests in the
energy and power industries, and Access is the New York-based
firm founded by Russian-born investor  Len Blavatnik .  The deal is on par with  KKR & Co. (KKR) ’s $7.2 billion takeover
of Samson Investment Co. last year. El Paso’s assets are
attractive because of their acreage in the Niobrara field in
 Colorado  and the Eagle Ford and Wolfcamp fields in Texas, which
produce more profitable oil and natural gas liquids such as
propane and butane, said Raymond James & Associates’  Darren Horowitz .  “All of those areas are, I think, the right place at the
right time,” said the Houston-based analyst, who rates Kinder
Morgan an “outperform” and doesn’t own the stock.  Buyout firms are vying to expand their energy investments
as the world’s biggest energy companies sell mature oil and gas
fields to finance new exploration. The oil and gas exploration
and production unit was put up for sale to help Kinder Morgan
Inc. finance its $21.1 billion purchase of El Paso later this
year. Scheduled to close in the second quarter, that transaction
is set to create the largest U.S. gas pipeline network.  Debt Financing  Apollo, which is run by founder  Leon Black , is planning
$5.5 billion of debt financing for the purchase, said three
people with knowledge of the transaction. The financing is
expected to include $3.5 billion of bonds and a $2 billion loan,
said the people, who asked not be identified because the terms
are private. About half the loan will be used to fund the
buyout, the people said.  “Apollo is acquiring a company with an impressive
portfolio of valuable natural resource assets, a talented
management team and a remarkable group of highly skilled
employees,”  Joshua Harris , Apollo’s co-founder and senior
managing director, said in a statement today.  Analysts predicted in October that the unit would sell for
as much as $9 billion. The lower price translates to about 5.5
times the unit’s earnings before interest, taxes, deductions and
amortization,  Carl Kirst , an analyst with BMO Capital Markets in
Houston, said in an interview. That compares with a median
Ebitda multiple of 10.9 for U.S. sales of exploration and
production firms in the last 12 months, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Fair’ Price  The price “looks fair,” said Kirst, who rates El Paso
“outperform” and doesn’t own any of its stock. “While their
inventory of drillable prospects is more than half oil and is
what people are looking for, as far as current production,
they’re still 85 percent natural gas.”  Apollo agreed in December to sell Parallel Petroleum Corp.,
an oil and gas producer based in Midland,  Texas , to a group of
South Korean companies for $771.5 million. The buyout firm
acquired Parallel in 2009 for $483 million.  The value of private equity deals in the  energy industry 
last year almost doubled to $32.2 billion from $16.5 billion in
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The takeover of
Samson Investment, announced in November and completed a month
later, was the biggest leveraged buyout of an oil and gas
producer.  Crude Prices Climb  Crude prices are up about 13 percent in the past year and
rose today to $109.77 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange .  Gas prices  have dropped 81 percent
from their 2008 high, as new drilling techniques have unlocked
vast reserves from formations of shale rock.  El Paso gets 96 percent of its production from its U.S. oil
and gas fields, including large positions in the Haynesville
Shale in Texas and  Louisiana  and in the  Rocky Mountains . The
company also has acreage in Brazil and  Egypt .  Private equity companies have become attracted to energy
investments after BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest mining
company, bought Petrohawk Energy Corp. for $12.1 billion, said
 Mark Hanson , an analyst with Morningstar Investment Services in
 Chicago . Petrohawk was founded in 2004 and had 3.4 trillion
cubic feet of oil and gas reserves when it sold.  Apollo may hold an initial public offering for the newly
acquired company in a few years, or sell it to a bigger
operator, Hanson said.  “It seems like private equity is drawn to more mature
assets and they don’t mind partnering with experienced industry
folks,” Hanson said.  Bigger Deals  Apollo participated in two deals larger than the El Paso
purchase, joining groups to buy Caesars Entertainment Corp.,
then known as Harrah’s, for $27.2 billion in 2006 and Intelsat
SA for $16.4 billion in 2007. In 2007 Apollo also acquired real
estate group Realogy Corp. for $7 billion.  Caesars raised $16.3 million on Feb. 8, selling less than 2
percent of its shares in an initial public offering. Apollo and
TPG Capital, which led the buyout in 2008, didn’t plan to sell
shares in the offering.  Apollo joined rivals KKR and Blackstone Group LP this month
in reporting lower profit as market volatility eroded investment
income. The firm, which oversaw $75 billion as of Dec. 31, is
seeking investment opportunities in credit and real estate,
which tend to deliver more predictable profits than private
equity.  ‘Damaged Brand’  During an analyst meeting in May last year, El Paso Chief
Executive Officer Douglas Foshee said the firm was a “damaged
brand” in 2003, citing company scandals related to alleged
market manipulation in its energy trading business and restated
earnings to correct inflated numbers for its oil and gas
reserves. The explorer sold assets to pay down debt and began
shifting its focus from energy trading to its pipeline and
production businesses, including acquiring acreage in
unconventional shale fields, Foshee said.  El Paso announced at the time that it would spin off the
exploration and production unit to its shareholders to
concentrate the company on the pipeline business and lower its
capital spending requirements. Five months later, after agreeing
to buy El Paso,  Kinder Morgan  executives said they would sell
the exploration unit rather than continue with the spinoff.  Advisers to the deal weren’t disclosed in Apollo’s
statement. Evercore Partners Inc. said it served as the
financial adviser to Kinder Morgan and El Paso in the asset sale
to Apollo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  