-- Apollo Group Said to Be Near Deal to Buy El Paso Oil Unit for $7 Billion
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-02-24T16:37:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/apollo-group-said-to-be-near-deal-to-buy-el-paso-oil-unit-for-7-billion.html
Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  is
leading a group that’s near a deal to acquire  El Paso Corp. (EP) ’s
oil-exploration business for about $7 billion, according to a
person with knowledge of the situation.  An agreement may be announced as soon as today, said the
person, who declined to be named as talks are private. The
negotiations are fluid and may still fall apart, this person
said. Apollo is working with Riverstone Holdings LLC and Len Blavatnik’s Access Industries Holdings Inc., people said.  The deal under discussion would be on par with KKR & Co.’s
$7.2 billion takeover of Samson Investment Co. last year, the
largest corporate leveraged buyout since 2007. El Paso’s assets
are attractive because of its acreage in the Niobrara field in
 Colorado  and the Eagle Ford and Wolfcamp fields in  Texas , which
produce more profitable oil and natural-gas liquids such as
propane and butane, said Raymond James & Associates’  Darren Horowitz .  “All of those areas are, I think, the right place at the
right time,” said the Houston-based analyst, who rates Kinder
Morgan an “outperform” and owns none of its stock. “What any
potential bidder is going to be looking at is the net asset
value of that acreage and the associated production over time.”  Kinder Deal  Kinder Morgan Inc. agreed to buy El Paso for $21.1 billion
in October and planned to sell the oil and natural gas
exploration and production unit to help finance the takeover.
 Larry Pierce , a spokesman for Houston-based  Kinder Morgan ,
declined to comment, saying the company doesn’t discuss any
potential mergers, sales or acquisitions.  Charles Zehren , a
spokesman for Apollo, and  Jeffrey Taufield , a spokesman for
Riverstone, declined to comment.  Apollo is planning $5.5 billion of debt financing for the
purchase, said three people with knowledge of the transaction.
The financing is expected to include $3.5 billion of bonds and a
$2 billion loan, said the people, who declined to be identified
because no agreement has been signed. About half the loan will
be used to fund the buyout, the people said.  The Wall Street Journal reported the talks yesterday.  Apollo agreed in December to sell Parallel Petroleum Corp.,
an oil and gas producer based in Midland, Texas, to a group of
South Korean companies for $771.5 million. The buyout firm
acquired Parallel in 2009 for $483 million.  ‘Perfectly Reasonable’  “It’s perfectly reasonable for them to be looking for
another energy investment” after selling Parallel,  Dan Morrison , an analyst at Global Hunter Securities LLC in  Fort
Worth , Texas, said by telephone.  U.S. oil and gas transactions involving private-equity
firms more than doubled in value last year to about $14 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The takeover of Samson
Investment, completed in December, was also the biggest
leveraged buyout of an oil and gas producer.  Crude prices are up about 12 percent in the past year and
traded at $108.56 barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  at 12:03 p.m. Singapore time. Natural-gas
prices have dropped 81 percent from their 2008 high, as new
drilling techniques have unlocked vast reserves from formations
of shale rock.  ‘Damaged Brand’  El Paso gets 96 percent of its production from its U.S. oil
and gas fields, including large positions in the Haynesville
Shale in Texas and  Louisiana  and in the  Rocky Mountains . The
company also has acreage in Brazil and  Egypt .  The company was a “damaged brand” in 2003, El Paso Chief
Executive Officer Douglas Foshee said during an analyst meeting
in May last year, citing company scandals related to alleged
market manipulation in its energy trading business and restated
earnings to correct inflated numbers for its oil and gas
reserves. The explorer sold assets to pay down debt and began
shifting its focus from energy trading to its pipeline and
production businesses, including acquiring acreage in
unconventional shale fields, Foshee said.  El Paso announced May 24 it would spin off the exploration
and production unit to its shareholders to concentrate the
company on the pipeline business and lower its capital spending
requirements. Five months later, after agreeing to buy El Paso,
Kinder Morgan executives said they would sell the exploration
unit rather than continue with the spinoff.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  