-- Apple Games Converge With Android’s by Using HTML 5 Code: Tech
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-02-24T04:07:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/apple-converging-with-android-using-html-5-as-ipad-drives-out-flash-tech.html
Pity the programmer. The path used
to be so clear. After coming up with the next billion-dollar
software idea, the only decision left was whether to build it
for just  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows or  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s Mac as well.  Now the options are far more diverse. Mobile platforms like
Apple’s iOS,  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android, and Windows Phone all vie
for coders’ attention alongside desktop operating systems and
Web hubs such as Facebook Inc. Each one requires time, and often
a different skill set.  The challenge is particularly acute in video games, where
iPhone users expect to be able to interact with their friends
even if they’re using a different device. Michael Carter, a 27-
year-old software engineer, says he has a solution in HTML 5,
 Bloomberg Businessweek  reports in its Feb. 27 issue.  Carter’s company,  Game Closure , builds tools that let game
developers write one version of their genius idea, then publish
it anywhere. In Game Closure’s take on the card game Hearts, for
instance, friends in different cities can play against each
other using Facebook, an iPhone or an Android tablet. “It’s the
future,” said Carter of HTML 5.  At its core, HTML 5 is a set of standards that lets Web
browsers understand animations, videos, graphics and other
multimedia content without the need to download a plug-in like
 Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE) ’s Flash, which is how most Web videos and
graphics are displayed today. Many technologists -- including
the late  Steve Jobs  -- have criticized Flash for being buggy and
draining battery life.  New Program’s Promise  The goal of HTML 5, which is gradually making its way into
all modern Internet browsers, including ones on mobile devices,
is to make sites look and feel just like applications downloaded
directly to a phone or desktop. Until recently, that was more of
a promise than a reality.  That’s changing in part because of the steamroller effect
of Apple’s iPad and iPhone, which don’t run Flash content. Game
Closure’s write-once, publish-anywhere tools for game makers
attracted social-gaming company  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , which offered $100
million to buy the startup, according to people familiar with
the matter who weren’t authorized to discuss the negotiations.  “We definitely walked away from a pretty large payout,”
Carter said, declining to go into specifics. “But we have a
larger vision for game development.”  He secured $12 million in a venture round led by Highland
Capital to build his company instead, and plans to make money by
licensing his technology or signing revenue-sharing agreements
with those who use it.  Zynga, Electronic Arts  Zynga is hiring its own HTML 5 engineers to create new
titles, as is  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA)  Amazon.com Inc. unveiled an
HTML 5 version of its mobile website last year, and in early
February, International Business Machines Corp. bought the
development company Worklight Inc. to create HTML 5 business
applications for phones and tablets.  “We’re at a technological inflection point,” said Tom Conrad, the executive vice president of product at the music-
streaming site  Pandora Media Inc. (P) , which rebuilt its main
website in HTML 5 in 2011.  As HTML 5’s use has expanded, software engineers proficient
in it are in short supply. “Just call a recruiter and ask for
one -- see how long it takes,” said  Adam Miller , chief
executive officer of Cornerstone OnDemand Inc., which builds
applications for human-resources managers. HTML programmers can
make as much as $250 an hour, he said.  Some are concerned that the rush to HTML 5 might lead to
shoddier software. Since the very idea behind HTML 5 is
universality, it may discourage developers from tailoring their
code to the capabilities of specific devices. Not every phone
has an accelerometer that can sense tilting, for example.  “HTML 5 is by far the greatest lowest common denominator
ever invented,” says Phil Libin, CEO of  Evernote Corp. , a note-
taking application. “But it’s still the lowest common
denominator.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barrett Sheridan at 
 bsheridan3@bloomberg.net  