-- Apple CEO Cook Signals New Era in Heeding Shareholder Concerns
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2012-02-24T18:50:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/apple-ceo-cook-signals-new-era-in-heeding-shareholder-concerns.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Chief Executive Officer
 Tim Cook , who yesterday told investors they would get more say
in picking board members, signaled greater willingness than his
predecessor to heed the concerns of his company’s shareholders.  Apple said at its annual shareholder meeting that it would
adopt a policy that says a majority -- rather than only a
plurality -- of shareholders is needed to elect directors. Cook
also reiterated that the company is exploring how to use its
$97.6 billion in cash in investments, responding to investors’
criticism that its balance sheet holds too big a hoard.  The shifts, following last month’s decision to open
supplier factories to inspections by an independent labor
organization, may indicate a new era in Apple’s interaction with
investors.  Anne Simpson , head of corporate governance for the
 California Public Employees’ Retirement System , said the changes
are befitting of the world’s most valuable company.  “This is setting the stage for a much more open dialogue
with investors,” said Simpson, who led a more than two-year
effort to persuade Apple to change its stance on board
elections. “Apple is entering a new phase. Rethinking capital
distribution, its global footprint and corporate governance is
something 10 years ago that it wouldn’t have had to consider.”  Shares of Cupertino, California-based Apple rose 1.2
percent to $522.36 at 1:30 p.m. in  New York . The shares had
climbed 28 percent this year before today.  Majority-Vote Change  Investors at yesterday’s meeting passed a nonbinding
measure in favor of the  board-election  change. The resolution
calls for board members to elected by more than 50 percent of
shareholders voting. Previously, a director could be voted in
simply by getting more yes votes than those opposed -- even if
most shareholders hadn’t voted in the person’s favor.  Apple didn’t adopt a similar initiative approved at the
gathering last year, saying the change would cause board members
to lose seats in cases where too few shareholders cast votes.  Corporate-governance  experts say that requiring a majority
vote gives shareholders more influence over board composition.
More than 80 percent of companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index already have majority-voting measures, said Robert J. Jackson Jr., an  associate professor  at  Columbia Law School .  “Apple’s move is really just catching up with the best
governance practices of other companies of its size and scope,”
said Jackson, who studies corporate governance issues.  ‘Steady Progression’  All of the board members on the slate were elected by a
wide majority: Genentech Inc. veteran executive Art Levinson,
who serves as Apple’s chairman; Intuit Inc. Chairman Bill Campbell; former U.S. Vice President  Al Gore ; Walt Disney Co.
CEO and Chairman Bob Iger; former head of Northrop Grumman Corp.
Ron Sugar; J. Crew Group Inc. CEO and Chairman Mickey Drexler;
Avon Products Inc. Chairwoman  Andrea Jung ; and Cook.  Yesterday’s meeting was the first since the death of Jobs,
who sometimes eschewed interaction with shareholders. Apple’s
evolution is natural because Cook’s previous role as chief
operating officer made him more involved with investors, said
 Brian Marshall , an analyst at ISI Group.  “It’s not a 180-degree turn,” Marshall said. “This is
more a slow, steady progression. No two people are created
alike, and that’s the case with Steve and Tim. He’s putting his
own mark on the company, slowly but surely.”  Cook said Apple was holding “active discussions” about
what to do with its cash and investments, saying the stockpile
was “more than we need to run a company.”  Rising Cash Pile  “The board and management team are thinking about this
very deeply,” said Cook, reiterating earlier comments.  The money pile, which includes short- and long-term
investments, has risen more than 63 percent since last year’s
annual meeting of shareholders.  “If they want to deploy the cash for the benefit of
shareholders, that’s a good thing,” said  Charles Elson ,
director of the Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the
 University of Delaware . “At least they’re talking about doing
something with the cash now.”  Cook said he’s not convinced of the effectiveness of a
stock split, though the company didn’t elaborate on how it might
spend cash.  One option is to return part of the amount to shareholders
in the form of a  dividend , which provides a recurring payment to
shareholders, typically each quarter. The company could also pay
a one-time dividend, similar to the one Microsoft Corp. paid in
2004.  Microsoft’s Footsteps  Flush with cash, the Redmond, Washington-based software
maker said in July of that year that it would return $75 billion
to shareholders over four years, including a $32 billion one-
time dividend of $3 a share.  Analysts at Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Mizuho
Securities USA Inc. and Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. predict that
Apple will institute a dividend some time soon.  “The likelihood of it happening is higher than ever,”
Shaw Wu, an analyst at Sterne Agee, wrote today in a research
note. He’s predicting a dividend that would yield 2 percent to 3
percent.  Apple  last paid  a dividend in 1995, before co-founder Jobs
returned as CEO to set in motion a revival at the struggling
company. The final dividend, of 12 cents a share, was announced
on Oct. 6, 1995. The company stopped paying the dividend amid
leadership upheaval and dwindling computer-market share.  In the years since then, the introduction of the iPod,
iPhone and iPad have turned the company into a profit engine,
letting it accumulate a stockpile of cash and investments that
exceeds the market value of Citigroup Inc. Jobs had long
rebuffed calls to return the money to investors.  No Greek Bailout  Instituting a dividend would provide a long-term boost to
Apple’s stock price by bringing in a new class of investors who
only buy shares in companies with a dividend, according to Toni Sacconaghi, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  At yesterday’s meeting, investors also voted down a
proposal calling for Apple to release a “conflict of interest
report” that outlines how board members may financially benefit
from company decisions. Another rejected measure would have
asked Apple to release a report on its political contributions
and expenditures. The company opposed those initiatives.  Responding to a question from a shareholder, Cook said
 Facebook Inc. (FB) , the world’s largest social-networking company, is
more of a “friend” than a competitor. Apple and Facebook
“could do a lot more together,” he said.  Cook also said Apple was working on new products that will
“blow your mind.”  Turning the conversation back to cash, an investor asked
whether Apple would consider using its cash to buy  Greece , which
faces a debt crisis.  “We’ve looked into many things,” but not that, Cook said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Burrows in San Francisco at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 