-- Apple Buys Chomp, a Provider of Tools for Searching Apps
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-02-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/apple-buys-chomp-a-provider-of-tools-for-searching-apps-1-.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the world’s most
valuable company, acquired San Francisco-based Chomp Inc., which
helps users sort through the widening array of software
applications for mobile devices.  The Cupertino, California-based company paid about $50
million for Chomp, according to a person familiar with the
matter, who asked not to be named because the specifics are
private. Apple confirmed the deal yesterday, without disclosing
the purchase price.  “We buy smaller technology companies from time to time and
generally don’t comment on our purposes or plans,” said Amy Bessette, a spokeswoman for Apple.  Chomp’s software lets people search through the hundreds of
thousands of downloadable applications available for Apple’s
iPad and iPhone, as well as gadgets running Google Inc.’s
Android operating system. Users can enter queries such as “tip
calculator” or “kids games” to get different options of apps
that fit those descriptions. Apple’s  App Store  has been
criticized by some developers as difficult to navigate beyond
the few programs in featured areas on the site.  Apple’s mobile devices lead the industry in applications,
with more than 550,000 available in the company’s App Store.
Apple is closing in on 25 billion total downloads from the
store, Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  said yesterday.  With past acquisitions of small companies, such as the LaLa
music store, Apple has shut down the service and integrated the
technology or engineers into its own operations.  Venture Backers  Chomp’s investors include BlueRun Ventures, SV Angel
founder  Ron Conway , Aydin Senkut, David Lee, Brian Pokorny and
Auren Hoffman. Actor  Ashton Kutcher  is a marketing adviser for
the company, according to Chomp’s website. The company also is a
partner with  Verizon Wireless , which uses Chomp’s search
technology in its app store.  Apple, boosted by the success of the iPhone and iPad, has
accumulated $97.6 billion in cash and investments on its balance
sheet. While the company hasn’t made multibillion-dollar deals,
Apple’s executives said earlier this year that acquisitions are
among the options it’s considering for the money.  The Chomp purchase was previously reported by the Wall
Street Journal and the TechCrunch blog.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Macmillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  