-- Maryland Poised to Permit Gay Marriage as Senate Sends Bill to O’Malley
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-02-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/maryland-poised-to-permit-gay-marriage-as-senate-sends-bill-to-o-malley.html
Maryland (STOMD1) ’s Senate passed a measure
to make same-sex marriage legal, a move supported by Governor
 Martin O’Malley , positioning the state to become the eighth in
the nation to permit the practice.  By a 25-22 vote yesterday, the bill surmounted its last
legislative hurdle. The House of Delegates, which last year
prevented the measure from advancing, passed it last week. The
legislation now goes to O’Malley, a Democrat who sponsored it.  “The common thread running through our efforts together in
 Maryland  is the thread of human dignity,” O’Malley said in a
statement. “Maryland will now be able to protect individual
civil marriage rights and religious freedom equally.”  The Free State will join seven others and the  District of
Columbia  in allowing same-sex weddings, fueling a national
debate over the practice. A similar measure was enacted Feb. 13
by Washington Governor Christine Gregoire, a Democrat. Last
week, New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie , a Republican, vetoed a
gay-marriage bill passed by the Legislature.  While states and localities have been marrying same-sex
couples since 2004 in Massachusetts, where a 2003 high court
ruling led to the first such weddings, the unions aren’t
recognized by the federal government under a 1996 law. That’s
left the issue to be dealt with by the states, where voters have
rejected the practice in all 31 referendums on the issue.  Opponents in Maryland still may gather signatures to put
the matter before voters.  Same-sex marriage has been the focus of political and
courtroom clashes between advocates who say citizens are being
denied a civil right and those who see the practice as a threat
to traditional families and values.  Other states where same-sex marriage is legal are New York,
 Connecticut , Iowa,  New Hampshire  and Vermont.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net . 