-- Asian Currencies Rise This Week on U.S. Recovery, China Easing
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-02-24T21:34:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/asian-currencies-rise-this-week-on-u-s-recovery-china-easing.html
Most Asian currencies strengthened
this week, with the  Thai baht  climbing to a five-month high, as
upbeat U.S. economic data and monetary easing in  China  spurred
demand for riskier assets.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar  Index (ADXY) , which tracks the
region’s 10 most-active currencies excluding the yen, rose 0.1
percent and the MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares climbed to a
six-month high. Demand for higher-yielding assets was also
buoyed by European leaders’ approval of a second bailout for
 Greece  on Feb. 21. Chinese banks’ reserve requirements were
relaxed yesterday for the second time in three months.  “Good data out of the U.S. leads to speculation external
demand will improve, and that’s good for export-oriented
economies like Malaysia and  Thailand ,” said Tohru Nishihama, an
economist at Dai-ichi Life Research Institute Inc. in  Tokyo .
“Fund inflows are supporting the currencies. Risk sentiment is
also good after agreement was reached on Greece bailout.”  The baht advanced 1.3 percent this week to 30.38 per dollar
in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Malaysia’s
ringgit climbed 0.8 percent to 3.0138 and India’s rupee gained
0.7 percent to 48.9450. China’s yuan strengthened 0.02 percent
to 6.2978.  Stock markets in  South Korea , India and the  Philippines 
attracted $1.4 billion from overseas this week, according to
latest exchange data. In Thailand, global funds boosted their
holdings of shares by $264 million and pumped $457 million more
into government bonds, official figures show.  U.S. Data  “Inflows into debt are boosting the rupee,” said Naveen Raghuvanshi, a currency trader at Development Credit Bank Ltd.
in Mumbai. “Sentiment is positive, and equity flows are
supportive too.”  India  auctioned $5 billion of corporate-bond quotas on Nov.
30 to foreign investors, who must utilize the allocations by Feb.
28 or let them expire. Overseas funds bolstered holdings of the
nation’s local-currency government and company debt by $3.4
billion this year, exchange data show.  Reports on Feb. 23 showed U.S. initial jobless claims held
at a four-year low in the week to Feb. 18, while  home prices 
climbed more than economists forecast in December. Greece
obtained a 130 billion euro ($174 billion) bailout this week
needed to avoid a March bankruptcy. Consumer confidence in South
Korea climbed to a three-month high in February, central bank
figures showed yesterday.  Rupiah Falls  Indonesia’s rupiah declined for a third week, weakening 0.8
percent to 9,118 per dollar, amid concern government plans to
raise fuel prices will stoke inflation. Foreign investors
trimmed their  holding  of local-currency  government bonds  1.7
percent this month through Feb. 20 to 232 trillion rupiah ($25.6
billion), according to finance ministry statistics. The Jakarta
Composite Index of stocks slumped 2.1 percent from a week ago.  “Foreign investors’ movement in stocks reflect that global
appetite is elsewhere,” said Nurul Eti Nurbaeti, head of
treasury research at PT Bank Negara Indonesia in Jakarta.
“Fuel-price hikes may strain domestic fundamentals. The rupiah
is likely to weaken.”  Elsewhere, the Singapore dollar rose 0.2 percent to
S$1.2552 versus the greenback, while Taiwan’s dollar and South
Korea’s won were little changed at NT$29.582 and 1,125.80. The
Philippine peso slid 0.5 percent to 42.825.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in  Singapore  at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 