-- Oil Rises to Almost $110 as S&P 500 Closes at Highest Level Since June ’08
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k ,   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-02-24T21:29:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/asia-stocks-oil-climb-on-u-s-jobless-claims-german-business-confidence.html
Oil extended the longest rally in
two years as tensions with  Iran  threatened supplies while signs
of economic growth boosted the outlook for demand. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index closed at the highest level since June 2008.  Crude for April delivery rose for a seventh day, increasing
1.8 percent to $109.77 a barrel, the highest settlement since
May 3. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.2 percent to
1,365.74 after  earlier rallying  as much as 0.4 percent. The  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  slipped 1.74 points to 12,982.95,
retreating from an almost four-year high. The  Dollar Index , a
gauge of the currency against six major peers, lost 0.6 percent.  Financial firms and companies that rely on discretionary
consumer spending were the  biggest drag  on the S&P 500 as the
index trimmed an early advance triggered after sales of new
homes exceeded economists’ forecasts and a gauge of  consumer
confidence  topped estimates.  “Energy prices are getting to the level where you would
expect to start to see  consumer spending  slow,” Barry Knapp,
head of equity strategy at Barclays Capital Inc. in  New York ,
told Bloomberg Television. “And we’re seeing that in the stock
market in a sense.”  The S&P GSCI gauge of 24 commodities advanced 1.1 percent
to the highest since May, led by gains in oil and industrial
metals.  Oil surged 6.3 percent this week and may rise again next
week on concern that shipments will be disrupted as Western
sanctions against Iran tighten, a Bloomberg News survey showed.
Thirteen of 30 analysts, or 43 percent, forecast oil will climb
through March 2. Twelve respondents, or 40 percent, predicted
prices will decline and five estimated there will be little
change. Last week, 41 percent of surveyed analysts expected a
gain.  All Eyes on Iran  Iran said on Feb. 20 that it stopped selling oil to  France 
and Britain in a move designed to pre-empt European sanctions.
The European Union on Jan. 23 agreed to ban crude imports from
the Persian Gulf nation starting July 1 to pressure the country
over its nuclear program. U.S. sanctions against financial
institutions that deal with Iran take effect at the end of June.  Fewer than 6 billion shares changed hands on U.S. stock
exchanges today, the second-slowest session of the year.  U.S. stocks started the session higher today, sending the
Dow above 13,000 during the day for the second time since 2008,
as the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of
consumer sentiment for February rose to a one-year high of 75.3,
topping the median economist projection for a reading of 73. New
 home sales  were at a 321,000 annual pace in January, the
Commerce Department reported, above the median estimate of
 economists  for 315,000.  ‘Pretty Positive’  “People are focused more on economic news again,” John Carey, who helps oversee about $220 billion at Pioneer
Investments in  Boston , said in a telephone interview. “There’s
still a lot of nervousness in the market about what’s going on
in  Europe  and in the  Middle East ,” he said. “There are always
things to worry about, but on the whole I’m pretty positive.”  Technology, utility, energy and health-care companies had
the best gains among the 10 main groups in the  S&P 500  today,
rising at least 0.4 percent.  The S&P 500 has rallied more than 24 percent from its 2011
low in October and is trading for about  14 times  its companies’
reported earnings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
benchmark gauge’s  valuation  has remained below its five-decade
average of 16.4 times earnings since May 2010, the longest
stretch below average since a 13-year period beginning in 1973.  Earnings  topped  analysts’ estimates at  68 percent  of the
441 companies in the index that released results since Jan. 9.  American Express Co., Pfizer Inc. and Chevron Corp. had the
biggest gains in the Dow today, while Bank of America Corp.,
Hewlett-Packard Co. and Johnson & Johnson had the biggest
declines. Salesforce.com Inc., the largest seller of online
customer-management software, rallied 9 percent today after
billings growth topped analysts’ estimates.  European Shares  More than two shares climbed for each that dropped in the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  jumped 6.8 percent
after posting full-year profit before some items that climbed
7.3 percent and forecasting “broadly stable” earnings and
revenue this year. Eiffage SA surged 16 percent for the biggest
rally in the  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  as Chief Executive Officer Pierre Berger
said net income and sales at the French builder will climb in
2012. SAP AG added 1.5 percent after its board recommended an 83
percent increase to the software company’s  dividend .  The euro rose 0.6 percent to $1.3458, the highest level in
more than two months, as it strengthened against 11 of 16 major
peers. The yen weakened against all 16 major peers, falling for
the seventh straight day versus the euro.  Italy Yields  The yield on the Italian 10-year bond fell six basis points
to 5.48 percent, with the two-year note yield nine basis points
lower. Italy sold 4.5 billion euros ($6 billion) of zero-coupon
and inflation-linked bonds, meeting its target for the auction
as borrowing costs fell.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit-
default swaps on 15 governments dropped 4 basis points to 344.  U.S., Chinese and Japanese officials say they will press
euro-area countries to do more to merit outside help when
officials from the world’s largest economies gather tomorrow.
European officials will push fellow Group of 20 nations to
commit fresh cash to the  International Monetary Fund  to help
defuse the region’s debt crisis, days after backing a second
bailout for  Greece .  The Obama administration says Europe must first strengthen
its firewall to prevent debts of countries such as Italy and
 Spain  from becoming unsustainable.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  advanced 0.8 percent. The
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  jumped 1.3 percent, and  Russia ’s Micex
Index climbed 3.7 percent, the most since November, as oil
producers rallied. Indonesia’s  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  sank 1.6
percent. BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  dropped 0.9 percent, a third
day of losses, on concern oil-price gains may fuel inflation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  