-- Australia Pacific LNG Said to Sign $2.5 Billion 16-Year Loan With 9 Banks
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s   a n d   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 2012-02-24T09:45:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/australia-pacific-lng-said-to-sign-2-5-billion-16-year-loan-with-9-banks.html
Australia  Pacific LNG Pty, the
venture building a liquefied natural gas project in state of
Queensland, completed a $2.5 billion, 16-year project finance
loan with nine banks, according to a person familiar with the
matter.  Proceeds will be used for the project and the loan pays a
margin of between 200 to 300 basis points more than the London
interbank offered rate, increasing to more than 300 basis points
once the field is in the post-construction phase, the person
said, asking not to be identified because the details are
private.  Australia has eight LNG ventures under development, driven
by increasing Asian demand for less-polluting alternatives to
coal. Chevron Corp., Royal Dutch Shell Plc, Woodside Petroleum
Ltd., Santos Ltd.,  ConocoPhillips (COP) , BG Group Plc and Inpex Corp.
are building projects to supply countries including  China .  Australia Pacific LNG’s $20 billion  coal seam gas-to-LNG
venture  in the country’s north involves developing fields in the
Surat and Bowen basins in central Queensland, constructing a 520
kilometer (325 mile) gas transmission pipeline and building a
LNG facility on Curtis Island, according to its website.  The company is owned 37.5 percent by  Origin Energy Ltd. (ORG) ,
37.5 percent by ConocoPhillips and 25 percent by China
Petrochemical Corp., or Sinopec, as the group is more commonly
known.  Anneliis Allen, corporate communications manager at Origin
Energy, the contact for the financing, declined to comment when
reached at her office in Sydney today.  Project finance and infrastructure debt in Australia will
swell syndicated loan volumes in 2012 as firms seek more than
$90 billion of funding for energy projects,  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia  said in a Feb. 16 report.  Loan volumes in Australia and  New Zealand  surged 57 percent
to $132.9 billion in 2011 from the previous year as firms sought
early refinancing amid  Europe ’s debt crisis and as borrowers
such as Wiggins Island Coal Export Terminal Pty arranged funding
for resource infrastructure projects, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Some of the lenders to Australia Pacific LNG’s facility may
syndicate the debt further to other banks, the person said
today, declining to elaborate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net ;
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  