-- Australia’s Labor Lawmakers Set to Weigh Gillard Record, Rudd Popularity
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-02-25T02:12:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/australia-labor-party-will-choose-between-gillard-s-record-rudd-s-appeal.html
Australia’s ruling party will decide
whether it wants a leader with a stronger record of legislative
success or a chief with greater appeal to voters as it struggles
to overcome near record-low public approval ratings.  Julia Gillard , who won passage of carbon-emissions and
mining-tax bills that confounded  Kevin Rudd ’s administration,
vies against Rudd Feb. 27 to retain the Labor party leadership
and stay prime minister. While Rudd has a 23 percentage-point
advantage over Gillard in an opinion poll today, he’s behind by
a 2-to-1 margin in tallies of lawmakers’ voting intentions
compiled by the Australian and Age newspapers.  “There’s a clear disjunction between an incumbent leader
in Gillard who’s clearly got the support in caucus but is being
damaged by low opinion polls and a challenger in Rudd who’s
trying to use the weapon of his alleged popularity to gain
leverage with undecided members of parliament,” said Paul
Strangio, a senior lecturer in politics at  Monash University  in
Melbourne. “If the loser goes to the backbench and doesn’t
cause trouble, they may have a chance to get their message
through with voters.”  Party Division  The victor will need to hold together a government that
relies on support of independent and  Green party  lawmakers after
a 2010 election that left neither Labor nor the conservative
Liberal-National alliance with a majority. Any collapse risks
ushering in an election that polls indicate the conservatives,
who have vowed to scrap the mining and carbon levies, would win.  Australia’s dollar traded at $1.0726 as of 6 p.m. in Sydney
yesterday, little changed from the previous week’s close amid
the political developments. The benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  of
stocks advanced 2.6 percent for the week, part of a global rally
in equities on signs the  U.S. economy  is gaining strength and
after Europeans agreed on a second bailout for  Greece .  “There’s far more important things of course driving the
Australian economy” than the political situation,  Shane Oliver ,
head of investment strategy at AMP Capital Investors Ltd. in
Sydney, said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “The strength
of global commodity prices,  interest rates , the Australian
dollar.”  Rudd’s Popularity  Rudd has 53 percent support as Labor leader to Gillard’s 30
percent, and he leads opposition leader Tony Abbott 48 percent
to 40 percent as the preferred prime minister, a Newspoll survey
conducted Feb. 23-24 of 346 people with a margin of error of 5.3
percentage points in the Australian newspaper today showed.  Labor’s 103 members of the two houses of parliament are
scheduled to vote at 10 a.m. in Canberra Feb. 27. The Age
newspaper late yesterday counted 67 favoring Gillard, 29 for
Rudd and seven undecided. The Australian had 67 for the prime
minister and 30 for her predecessor, who led the government from
2007 until his ouster in June 2010.  Among those who were undeclared before today was House
leader Anthony Albanese, the minister for transport and
infrastructure. He announced in Sydney that he’ll back Rudd,
even though he conceded that all indicators point to a Gillard
win.  “I don’t have a great record of backing winning
candidates,” Albanese said.  In a press conference today, Gillard said she declined
Albanese’s offer to resign as leader of the lower chamber and
said she expected to see him “fighting Tories” as usual after
the ballot.  ‘Fortitude’  Gillard, a former labor attorney and the nation’s first
female prime minister, said at a news conference in  Melbourne 
yesterday that “I am the person who gets things done” and that
“I’ve got the determination and personal fortitude to see
things through.”  Rudd said in his news conference that “Julia has lost the
trust of the Australian people,” and that “I want to finish
the job the Australian people elected me to do.” He also
pledged to go to the backbench and not seek to challenge Gillard
again if he loses the Feb. 27 vote.  Abbott, 54, a former amateur boxer who once studied for the
priesthood, told reporters two days ago his Liberal-National
coalition is ready for an election, and presents a “stable and
united team.” He hasn’t ruled out calling a vote of confidence
on the government after the Labor vote.  Mining Tax  The conservatives have pledged to scrap the mining and
carbon levies. A measure of stocks of companies subject to the
taxes, was little changed yesterday. The  S&P/ASX 100 Resources
Index (AS41)  dipped 0.1 percent to 6,626.62.  “Potentially the resource sector would be a big winner”
should Abbott find a way into office, said  Craig James , a senior
economist at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the nation’s
biggest lender, in Sydney.  Supporters of Gillard, including Treasurer and Deputy Prime
Minister  Wayne Swan  and Defense Minister Stephen Smith, said
this week that Rudd as prime minister was ineffective at pulling
his administration together behind decisions.  Rudd won status as the nation’s second most-popular leader,
after Labor’s  Bob Hawke  in the 1980s, according to a March 2009
Nielsen poll. Support for his leadership among voters surged to
a record 73 percent after he garnered plaudits for offering the
nation’s first apology to Aborigines for past injustices.  Recession Avoided  His government steered  Australia ’s economy through the
global financial crisis, boosting spending on schools and roads
and distributing more than A$20 billion ($21 billion) in cash to
households. The country avoided a recession, helped by what the
central bank has termed a “once-in-a-century investment boom,”
led by Chinese demand for the nation’s coal and iron.  The support eroded after Rudd shelved his plan for a
carbon-trading system and proposed a 40 percent tax on “super
profits” of resource projects in Australia. In the run-up to
his ouster, dissatisfaction with the Chinese-speaking former
diplomat had climbed to 55 percent, an Australian newspaper poll
showed in June 2010.  Gillard brought  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  and
other iron-ore and coal producers into negotiations on a
revamped mining levy with the government, and won passage for
legislation in the lower house in November. The Senate, where
the Green party holds the balance of power, still has to vote on
the measure, which is designed to take effect July 1.  Pollution Levy  The administration also in November won final passage of
legislation making polluters pay for their  carbon emissions 
starting in July. The legislation will see about 500 companies
charged A$23 a ton, before a so-called cap-and-trade system is
introduced three years later. This month, the lower house passed
legislation to introduce means-testing of rebates for private-
health insurance.  Attorney-General Nicola Roxon, who was health minister
under Rudd, told  Sky News  yesterday that she “absolutely
wouldn’t accept” an offer to work for him again if he won.  “I did witness quite a lot of very bad behavior to staff
and to officials,” Roxon said in the interview. “I don’t think
that’s a good way to run a government.” By contrast, she has
never seen Gillard “lose her cool,” Roxon said.  Rudd, in a television interview broadcast Feb. 19,
portrayed himself as a changed man who now recognizes the need
to delegate authority.  “I’ve certainly reflected a lot on the last several years
and you’d be a mug if you didn’t learn something from the
past,” he said in the interview with Sky television. He told
reporters yesterday in declaring his challenge for the
leadership that he isn’t “captain perfect.”  Gillard today said the party needs to come together after
deciding its next leader.  “The federal  Labor party  doesn’t face just one big
decision, it faces two,” she said in a speech in Cessnock, New
South Wales. “First, we must choose a leader in the ballot I’ve
called. Second, we must choose unity after the ballot is
declared.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  