-- ECB May Allot 470 Billion Euros in 3-Year Crisis Loans: Economy
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-02-24T12:11:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/banks-in-europe-likely-to-tap-ecb-for-629-billion-cash-in-boost-for-bonds.html
Euro-area banks may tap the  European
Central Bank  next week for almost as much three-year cash as
they did in December in an operation that could prolong a rally
in bond markets.  Financial institutions will ask the ECB for 470 billion
euros ($629 billion) in three-year funds for allotment on Feb.
29, the median of 28 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey shows.
While that’s less than the record 489 billion euro take-up at
the first tender on Dec. 21, it may increase total cash in the
system by more than 300 billion euros, said  Luca Cazzulani , a
senior fixed-income strategist at  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  in Milan.  “Part of the increase will likely be parked, at least
temporarily, in the sovereign-bond market and support mainly the
performance of Italian and Spanish bonds,” said Cazzulani.
Still, “expectations are at a pretty high level, which creates
some room for disappointment,” he said. “Gross demand below
400 billion euros would likely put upward pressure on spreads in
the short term.”  Italian and Spanish bonds have risen since the ECB’s first
three-year loan, suggesting banks are investing at least some of
the money in higher yielding assets. That’s helped ease concern
about a credit crunch and won governments time to agree on
measures to contain the sovereign debt crisis.  ‘Lose-Lose’ Air  The yield on  Spain ’s two-year bond has dropped to 2.62
percent from 3.88 percent since Dec. 21 and the rate on a
similar Italian bond has fallen to 2.87 percent from 5.14
percent. The extra yield investors demand to hold two-year
Italian notes over German debt has fallen to 263 basis points
from 492 points on Dec 22. That spread was 720 points on Nov.
25, a euro-era high.  The risk is that banks become too reliant on ECB money and
fail to take the steps needed to strengthen their balance
sheets.  “There is a ‘lose-lose’ air around the ECB’s auction next
week,” said  Simon Smith , chief economist at foreign-exchange
broker FXPro Group Ltd. in  London . “If take-up is low then
markets are likely to be disappointed. If take-up is high, then
although this may give markets a boost, the bigger picture is of
markets becoming increasingly reliant on the ever-expanding good
nature of central banks. All well and good, but the routes to
the exit are that much longer as a result.”  The three-year funds cost the average of the ECB’s
 benchmark interest rate , currently at a record-low 1 percent,
over the period of the loans and banks have the option of
repaying them after a year. Forecasts in the Bloomberg survey
range from 300 billion euros to 750 billion euros. No further
three-year operations are currently scheduled beyond next week.  Stronger Euro  The euro strengthened against the dollar today, rising
above $1.34 for the first time since Dec. 9. The 17-nation
common currency gained 0.3 percent to $1.3409 at 12:31 p.m. in
Brussels. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  was up 0.3 percent to
264.93.  With the economy set to recover “gradually” this year,
there are no signs of downside inflation risks that might
justify cutting rates to zero, Executive Board member Benoit Coeure said in a speech published by the ECB today.  In  Asia ,  Vietnam  is making headway against the region’s
fastest  inflation  as prices rise the least in 11 months, giving
the central bank scope to lower rates. Consumer prices climbed
16.44 percent in February from a year earlier, the General
Statistics Office said in Hanoi today.  U.S. Recovery  In the U.S., purchases of  new homes  probably rose in
January to a nine-month high, more evidence the housing market
is improving, economists said before a report today.  The ECB’s second offering of three-year loans is intended
to relieve liquidity strains in the region as officials work to
contain fallout from the debt crisis. The central bank has
increased the pool of collateral that banks can use to obtain
the loans.  Before the December operation, the ECB reduced the rating
threshold for certain asset-backed securities. This month, it
said seven of the 17 national central banks in the euro area
will also accept credit claims, a move that ECB President Mario Draghi estimates will increase the collateral pool by another
200 billion euros. The aim is to give small and medium-sized
banks greater access to ECB cash.  While the overall amount allotted next week may be lower
than in the first operation, new borrowing should be higher,
said Christel Aranda-Hassel, director of European economics at
Credit Suisse in London.  New Money  That’s because banks are likely to roll only about 100
billion euros of existing ECB loans into the three-year
facility, with the remainder representing new cash.  In the December operation, about 296 billion euros of the
489 billion-euro total was accounted for by old loans, meaning
about 193 billion euros was new money, according to  Barclays
Capital .  The size of the loans prompted German ECB council member
Jens Weidmann to warn that the central bank mustn’t “lose sight
of its mandate” to control inflation by taking on “excessive
risks.”  Those concerns are likely to see the ECB wind down its
long-term lending after the second three-year operation, said
Deutsche Bank chief economist  Thomas Mayer .  ECB council member  Ewald Nowotny  said today officials will
“wait to see the effects” of the loans. “I personally don’t
see any further need for action,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Frankfurt at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  