-- Bank of Korea’s Kim Argues Against Stimulus for Advanced Nations
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-02-24T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/bank-of-korea-s-kim-argues-against-stimulus-for-advanced-nations.html
Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo said he doubts that more stimulus by advanced nations will
revive global growth when markets are already awash with cash.  “I am suspicious that more macroeconomic stimulus by
advanced economies can be a solution to reviving growth,” Kim
said in written remarks prepared for a seminar at the Group of
20 nations meeting in Mexico City today. “High uncertainty and
financial deleveraging” have limited the boost to consumption
and investment from a flood of liquidity, he said.  Defusing the European debt crisis is crucial to aid
confidence in emerging economies, the group best-placed to lead
an economic rebound, Kim said. For now, those nations may hold
off on measures to stimulate growth as they wait to see whether
a “much worse scenario” emerges from the euro area’s woes, the
central banker said.  The  World Bank  last month cut its global growth forecast
for this year to 2.5 percent from 3.6 percent, estimating that
the euro area will contract 0.3 percent. In contrast, it
forecast that  China’s economy  will expand 8.4 percent.  Asian officials have previously criticized so-called
quantitative easing in the U.S. for driving capital flows into
 emerging markets . In his G-20 remarks, Kim said that emerging
economies “will still remain vulnerable to sudden reversals or
disruptions of global liquidity.”  In the U.S., the world’s biggest economy, Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has pledged to keep rates near zero at
least through late 2014 and kept open the option of buying more
bonds. Japan’s central bank unexpectedly added 10 trillion yen
($128 billion) to an asset-purchase program on Feb 14.  In  Europe , ECB President  Mario Draghi  has cut the benchmark
rate to a record low of 1 percent, eased collateral rules and
loaned banks an unprecedented 489 billion euros ($655 billion)
for three years since he took the bank’s helm Nov. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  