-- EU Bid to Control Bank Capital Rules Said to Face Challenge
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-02-24T15:52:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/barnier-bid-to-control-bank-capital-rules-said-to-face-challenge.html
At least four nations may challenge
European Union plans to limit their power to regulate bank
capital as governments seek a compromise on implementing global
rules on the reserves lenders must hold to prevent a financial
crisis, according to four people with knowledge of the matter.  Officials from the EU’s 27 member states are weighing
whether to scrap a proposal from EU financial services chief
 Michel Barnier  to make the European Commission responsible for
deciding bank capital levels during market turmoil, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the talks are
private. Nations are also considering widening the range of
assets lenders may use to meet liquidity rules, the people said.  Barnier has been criticized by the U.K. and  Sweden  for
seeking to restrain national watchdogs’s freedom to impose
tougher capital rules on national banks. Barnier has said that
requirements for lenders should be set by the EU, with limited
exceptions for national regulators to exceed them to ease credit
booms.  The commissioner included the curbs in a draft law he
presented last year to implement rules set by the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision . Chantal Hughes, Barnier’s
spokeswoman, declined to immediately comment.  “A move towards more flexibility in the application of the
rules is to be welcomed,”  Richard Reid , research director for
the International Centre for Financial Regulation, said in an e-
mail. “Across the EU there is a considerable diversity in the
size and structure of financial systems.”  Capital Surcharges  The Basel committee brings together regulators from 27
countries including the U.S., U.K. and  China  to set global rules
for banks. The committee last year said it would seek to impose
capital surcharges of as much as 2.5 percentage points on the
largest lenders as part of its response to the crisis that
followed the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Denmark , which holds the rotating presidency of the EU, is
seeking a deal on the implementation of the Basel rules next
month. It would then need to negotiate the final version of the
measures with lawmakers in the European Parliament.  Barnier’s version would hand the European Commission power
to set “stricter” capital rules for banks in cases where it’s
necessary to address “risks which arise from market
developments,” according to a copy of  the document  on the EU’s
website. The rules would be temporary, although no expiry date
is set out in the draft. The extra requirements could apply
across the whole EU or in individual countries.  Raise Requirements  Nations are considering proposing changes to the law that
would keep the power in the hands of their own regulators, the
people said. Decisions to hike capital requirements may still be
reviewed or coordinated at the EU level, they said.  “Forcing the whole EU into lockstep for the common good
could lead to a suboptimal approach nationally,” Patrick Fell,
a director at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in  London , said in an
e-mail. An approach based on local decisions “buttressed
through coordinated EU review and disclosure” to the market,
could be “more sustainable,” he said.  Adding powers to the draft law giving national regulators
the ability to impose capital surcharges on banks with systemic
importance is also being considered, the people said. On the
liquidity rule, nations are considering amending a standard
draft by the Basel committee that would require lenders to hold
enough easy-to-sell assets to survive a 30-day credit squeeze.  Barnier’s proposal said regulators should assess which
assets will count as highly liquid before 2015. Officials are
considering calling on supervisors to test a wider range of
securities than those set out by Basel, the people said. This
list may include some equities, two of the people said.  Liquidity is a measure of the amount of cash and easily
sellable assets banks have on hand to meet liabilities. A bank’s
capital is a measure of the reserves it has to cover losses.  The debate about the liquidity requirements is “having to
shift in recognition of the reality that there is a shortage in
supply of suitable instruments for banks to use,” Reid said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  