-- Barroso Says Europe Has Tools, Ability to Overcome Debt Crisis
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2012-02-24T20:15:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/barroso-says-europe-has-tools-ability-to-overcome-debt-crisis.html
Europe can solve the “huge
difficulties and enormous challenges” presented by its
sovereign debt crisis, European Commission President  Jose Barroso  said.  “We are faced with extraordinary challenges,” Barroso
said in the draft of a speech due to be delivered at Hamburg’s
town hall today, noting that it has become commonplace to
consider the crisis as the most serious since the Second World
War. While emphasizing that the crisis is, indeed, serious, he
added that “we do have the potential and the means to overcome
it.”  Debt-stricken Greece won a second bailout this week, as
European finance ministers granted 130 billion euros ($175
billion) in aid, engineered a central-bank profits transfer and
coaxed investors into providing more debt relief in an exchange
meant to tide Greece past a March bond repayment.  Greece  met a
key condition for aid by spelling out 325 million euros in
additional spending cuts, the latest round of the measures that
have provoked street protests in  Athens .  “I know some very tough decisions will need to be taken,
however, it is a distortion of the reality to say that the
program has worsened the situation in Greece,” Barroso said.  He added that there also is no alternative to consolidating
public debt to avoid a “hugely damaging uncontrolled default.”  “The program is ultimately not about austerity,” the EU
official said. “It is about restoring stability to Greek public
finances and creating the conditions for sustainable lasting
growth.”  Second Bailout  Europe ’s second bailout for Greece brings to at least 386
billion euros the sums spent or committed to save Greece,
Ireland and  Portugal  from bankruptcy, and to insulate Europe
from a ruinous financial cascade that might endanger its 13-
year-old monetary union by dragging down Spain or  Italy .  “What’s at stake today is more than fixing a minus balance
sheet, more than correcting a public deficit, more than saving
Greece -- Europe is passing a historical test,” Barroso said.  “The world at large wants to know whether Europe, and the
euro area in particular, are able to solve a problem which in
relation to its overall size and economic force is a relatively
minor one,” Barroso said. “In other words, they want to know
whether we want to exist as Europe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  