-- BASF’s Bock Pledges to Extend Record Profit Run to Third Year
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-02-24T08:22:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/basf-s-bock-pledges-to-extend-record-profit-run-to-third-year.html
BASF SE (BAS) , the world’s largest
chemicals maker, predicted it will extend its run of record
profits and sales to a third year after  emerging markets  in  Asia 
helped sales beat analysts’ estimates.  Fourth-quarter revenue gained 10 percent to 18.07 billion
euros ($24 billion), BASF said today, beating a 16.95 billion-
euro estimate. Investors will get a dividend of 2.50 euros,
ahead of Bloomberg 2.40-euro estimate, helping send BASF shares
up 2.9 percent to 66.16 euros in  Frankfurt .  Chief Executive Officer Kurt Bock, who in November raised a
sales target for the end of the decade, forecast the global
economy will pick up speed after a “moderate” start to 2012,
helping the company improve on last year’s result. Nine months
into his CEO role, Bock is pushing ahead with a plan to lessen
BASF’s exposure to economic swings and focus on innovation,
while cutting a further 1 billion euros in costs.  “Bock is very goal oriented and has both legs firmly on
the ground,” said M.M. Warburg analyst Oliver Schwarz, who has
a “hold” rating on the stock. “The outlook was surprisingly
positive and the dividend was also pleasing.”  Shares of Ludwigshafen, Germany-based BASF have climbed 20
percent this year, prior to today’s advance, giving the company
a market value of 59 billion euros. DuPont Co. has added 12
percent and Dow Chemical Co. 18 percent, by comparison.  Raw-Material Inflation  Raw-material inflation was largely passed on to clients
through higher pricing, BASF said. Increased global capacity in
toluene diisocyanate for polyurethanes prevented BASF clawing
back higher input costs in that area by charging customers more.  The company expects all divisions, bar its basic chemicals
unit, to contribute to profit growth this year. Pressure on
margins for petrochemicals and intermediates will mean a lower
profitability for that unit, even as sales gain. BASF expects
higher demand from the construction and auto industry, it said.  Net income rose to 1.13 billion euros, also beating a
prediction of 931 million euros. Earnings before interest, tax
and one-time items fell 15 percent to 1.51 billion euros.  Bock is increasing its research and development spending to
1.7 billion euros this year. The chemical maker joins other
western rivals focusing on technology to combat low-cost Asian
and Middle East petrochemical makers. It’s targeting 300 million
euros in annual sales from the wind-energy market by 2020 with
coatings and foams for the turbines and towers.  Acquisitions  Recent acquisitions  have accelerated the shift toward
specialty chemicals at BASF, which uses refined oil products and
natural gas as a base for petrochemicals. Those in turn are used
in products ranging from plastics to shampoo and car paint
ingredients. The German company bought Cognis for $3.8 billion
in 2010 to boost its cosmetic ingredients operations, and dye-
maker Ciba the year before for $5 billion.  The chemical maker may resume bigger acquisitions after
saying last week that it had completed the integration of
Cognis. The company will also screen units for profitability and
potential and may divest activities should they not measure up,
the CEO said in November.  Three nitric acid plants will be divested in 2012 as part
of an exit from fertilizers, BASF said today.  BASF’s earnings were impacted by the deconsolidation of its
styrene operations, which it transfered into a joint venture
with Ineos Group Holdings last year. The new plastics company,
called Styrolution, has annual sales of more than 5 billion
euros.  By contrast, earlier this week BASF agreed to buy  Merck
KGaA (MRK) ’s battery electrolyte unit to add technology used for
lithium ion batteries and in electromobility.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  