-- Bats Receives Request From SEC on Exchange Order Types, Trading Strategies
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-02-24T21:25:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/bats-receives-request-from-sec-on-exchange-order-types-trading-strategies.html
Bats Global Markets Inc. (BATS) , the
exchange operator preparing for an initial public offering, got
a request from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for
information on the types of orders customers use on its venues.  The request from the SEC’s enforcement division, disclosed
in a regulatory filing yesterday on the IPO, sought information
about how order types have evolved at the third-largest owner of
U.S. equity exchanges by volume. Bats said regulators asked for
documents “related to the development, modification and use of
 order types , and our communications with certain market
participants,” including some of Bats’ owners.  Bats and exchanges such as Nasdaq Stock Market and NYSE
Arca offer multiple  order types  so traders can tailor
transactions based on price moves or other conditions. Some of
them give users control over when and how they execute a trade
request while others allow firms to keep their place in line for
orders or avoid routing to other venues.  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , which
owns NYSE Arca, and  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  are in New York.  “Order types are designed to incent different behavior in
the market such as providing liquidity,” according to Adam Honore, research director at Boston-based Aite Group LLC, who
said he had no specific knowledge of the SEC’s inquiry. “It may
have to do with participant incentivization and whether or not
all of that has been fair and equitable.”  Technology, Strategies  The SEC asked for information on Lenexa, Kansas-based Bats’
information-technology systems and trading strategies, the
filing said.  Randy Williams , a spokesman for Bats, declined to
comment.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to provide
further details.  The request is part of a broader probe of relationships
between exchanges and some electronic trading firms, the Wall
Street Journal reported today, citing people familiar with the
matter that it didn’t identify.  Bats also said in the filing that its board approved a $100
million dividend for current shareholders the day before the
IPO. Bats operates two U.S. equities markets, an options
exchange and two European trading venues and is owned by a group
of brokers including  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Citigroup Inc. in New
York and Chicago-based Getco LLC.  The company disclosed in the filing that its cash-and-stock
purchase of Chi-X  Europe  Ltd. in November had a fair value of
about $304 million.  Bats Versus LSE  The deal gave Bats a second alternative trading venue in
Europe and a total market share of more than 23 percent of
equity trading in the region, according to data it  compiles . The
 London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) ’s two exchanges and Turquoise,
which it owns in partnership with banks and brokers, have 24
percent. Bats said it intends to register as a European exchange
this year.  Bats plans to enter at least two new markets by the end of
2014, the filing said. It’s considering an expansion into U.S.
Treasuries, foreign exchange and U.S. futures, and may enter
Canada and  Brazil , according to the document. The company
previously said it’s exploring the possibility of creating a
Brazilian exchange with Claritas Investments, a Sao Paulo-based
asset manager.  The number of U.S. stock and options exchanges has risen to
13 and nine, respectively. One way they try to differentiate
themselves and win orders is with pricing plans. So-called
maker-taker  pricing , in which an exchange charges some firms to
trade and gives rebates to those providing orders, is mainly
used to compensate market makers and providers of bids and
offers. Traders who execute against those orders pay a fee.  Fee Tiers  Exchanges using this pricing may also seek more business
from firms by employing tiers for fees and rebates based on the
amount of trading they conduct. The levels push brokers to
consolidate orders on a particular venue to get the better
pricing or use other securities firms to benefit from their
ability to meet the volume requirements. Exchanges may tailor
the conditions for better pricing to certain types of firms.  In May 2010, Bats changed a service customers used to hide
the number of shares they were trying to buy or sell to provide
additional anonymity. Chief Executive Officer Joe Ratterman said
at the time that the exchange received “inquiries about our
data feeds” from firms concerned about whether order IDs were
disseminated on its data feeds and what type of information that
conveyed to recipients.  ‘Are They Aware?’  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said in a  speech  in September
2010 that competition among exchanges, alternative venues and
brokers operating their own trading systems to match buy and
sell requests had produced an array of different order types and
proprietary data feeds. The electronic message streams offer
information quicker than so-called consolidated data feeds,
which aggregate trades or quotes from multiple markets. They may
also provide information that’s not available publicly.  “Are they aware of potential conflicts of interest that
could cause their orders to be handled in ways that may not be
consistent with their best interests?” Schapiro asked about
investors such as asset managers. “And, even if they are aware,
is there a way for investors to effectively protect themselves
by, for example, masking their strategies?”  Additional Bats owners include  Bank of America Corp. ,
Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG, Instinet Holdings
Inc.; JPMorgan Chase & Co.; the estate of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., Lime Brokerage Holdings LLC and Tradebot Systems
Inc. Tradebot Chairman Dave Cummings founded Bats in 2005.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  