-- Bekaert Drops as Recovery Will Take Three Years: Brussels Mover
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-02-24T18:29:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/bekaert-drops-as-recovery-will-take-three-years-brussels-mover.html
Bekaert NV (BEKB) , the world’s largest
maker of steel cord used in tires, fell to an eight-week low in
Brussels after saying planned cost cuts won’t restore profit
margins  before 2014  after a collapse in sawing-wire prices.  Bekaert declined 2.35 euros, or 8.7 percent, to 24.72 euros
at the 5:40 p.m. close of trading on Euronext Brussels, for the
biggest drop on the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index and the lowest
closing value since Dec. 29. The shares have fallen 72 percent
from their  peak  of 87.43 euros in January 2011.  An expansion of sawing-wire capacity in China amid slowing
global demand growth for solar panels led to a collapse of
prices for the material used to slice silicon ingots into wafers
and that was Bekaert’s most profitable product. Bekaert now
faces expenses to eliminate 1,850 positions amid cutbacks in
sawing-wire production and its tire-cord margins are at risk as
manufacturers refit their sawing-wire plants to make steel cord
at a time when demand for reinforced tires in  China  stagnates.  “When you have a three-to-one supply-to-demand situation,
you cannot have a stable market,” Chief Financial Officer Bruno Humblet said on a conference call today. “China has in many
aspects become a mature market,” Chief Executive Officer Bert De Graeve said.  Bekaert derived about 44 percent of 2010 operating profit
before one-time items from sawing wire and an additional 27
percent from steel cord, according to Ben Defay, an analyst at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  London . Bekaert doesn’t give a breakdown
of sales or profitability by product.  Long-Term Target  After halting losses by shuttering sawing-wire plants in
China,  Spain  and  Belgium  this year, Bekaert said on Feb. 2 it
will seek an additional 100 million euros of savings to reach
its long-term target for earnings before interest and tax of at
least 7 percent of sales.  That won’t happen before 2014, Bekaert said today. Its Ebit
margin fell to 2.3 percent in the second half from 13 percent in
the preceding six-month period. Bekaert forecast mature markets
will remain “weak” this year and expects continued price
pressure in most markets, especially in China. The steel-cord
maker will focus  capital spending  in the region on India and
 Indonesia , De Graeve said.  Bekaert had to pass on declining wire-rod prices from
swollen inventories made from higher-priced raw materials in the
second half, which cut profit in that period by 10 million euros
($13.5 million) to 15 million euros, according to Humblet.
Production cutbacks amid extended holiday breaks at customers in
Europe and  North America  also affected earnings in the final
quarter.  Dividend Cut  Net income for the six months through December fell 74
percent to 48.3 million euros, the Zwevegem, Belgium-based
company said in a statement. Analysts had projected profit of
36.4 million euros, according to the average of eight estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Bekaert cut its final  dividend  by half to 50 cents a share
and De Graeve said the company won’t propose an interim dividend
when reporting first-half earnings on July 27.  Net debt  climbed to 860.5 million euros, or 1.8 times
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization,
last year as operating working capital ballooned to 1.03 billion
euros amid a buildup of inventories and accounts receivable.  Finance chief Humblet declined to give a target for
reducing working capital this year, saying much depends on an
easing of monetary policies by Chinese authorities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  