-- BHP Leads Overseas Borrowers as U.S. Corporate Issuance Recovers
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-02-24T15:16:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/bhp-leads-overseas-borrowers-as-u-s-corporate-issuance-recovers.html
International borrowers  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest miner, and  ArcelorMittal (MT)  are leading
more than $24 billion of corporate bond sales in the U.S. this
week as volume recovers from a mid-month slump.  BHP raised $5.25 billion of debt on Feb. 21, its largest
offering on record, to pay down existing obligations and for
general corporate purposes, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. ArcelorMittal sold $3 billion of three-, five- and
10-year notes yesterday, the Luxembourg-based steelmaker said in
a regulatory filing.  Issuance is poised to rise by more than 53 percent from
$15.9 billion last week, after European leaders approved a
second bailout for Greece and the  Bloomberg Consumer Comfort
Index (COMFCOMF)  in the U.S. rose to the highest level since April 2008.
Overseas companies have sold more than $187 billion of bonds in
the U.S. in 2012, the fastest start to a year in data going back
to 1999.  “Markets were definitely skittish leading up to the
agreement on the Greek debt writedown,” Marc Pinto, head of
corporate bond strategy at Susquehanna International Group LLP,
said in an e-mail. “With that out of the way, an all-clear bell
has been sounded, and we are off to the races in the primary
market once again.”  Investment-grade corporate bond yields declined to 3.50
from 3.54 after recording the first rise in a month last week,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch Index data show. Yields on
speculative-grade bonds fell to 7.62 percent from 7.71 percent
on Feb. 17. High-yield, high-risk, or junk, bonds are rated
below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- at  Standard &
Poor’s .  3rd-Biggest Issue  Returns on debt from the most creditworthy to the riskiest
corporate borrowers reached 0.42 this week, accounting for most
of the 0.52 percent February gains in the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate & High Yield Master Index.  BHP’s issue was the third-biggest in the corporate market
this year, following $7 billion sales from  SABMiller Plc (SAB)  and
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA. (PBR)  The Melbourne-based miner has said it’s
considering $80 billion in spending over the next five years to
add output of  iron ore , copper and coal.  ArcelorMittal’s issue was its first in almost a year. It
sold $3 billion of five-, 10-and 30-year notes on Feb. 28 in its
previous offering. Reliance Industries Ltd., Banco Bradesco SA,
and DBS Bank Ltd. also tapped the U.S. market this week.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  led domestic issuers, selling $1.25 billion
of three-year notes as the New York-based company  faces a wall
of maturities  from the U.S. government’s Temporary Liquidity
Guarantee Program, instituted in 2008 to help stem the global
financial crisis.  ‘Extremely Challenging’  “When we look at the U.S. and European markets side-by-
side, it’s fairly evident that issuing debt in  Europe  is
extremely challenging right now,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-
income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia. “It’s more efficient for companies to sell debt
in the U.S. rather than risk a failed deal in Europe, he said.  European leaders agreed on a second bailout package of 130
billion euros ($172 billion) for  Greece  after weeks of
wrangling. A deal was also reached with private creditors to
help the country stave off an immediate default.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index rose to minus 38.4 in
the week ended Feb. 19 from minus 39.8. The level associated
with recessions and their aftermath is minus 40.  “Decent economic indicators stateside are helping
investors to keep their glass-half-full attitude firmly in
place,” Susquehanna’s Pinto said. “The fact is that dollar
funding, whether you are a domestic company or not, is
accessible at extremely attractive levels right now on an all-in
basis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  