-- Biggest Muni ETF Drops Most Since 2008 After Hitting Record Asset Premium
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-02-24T23:23:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/biggest-muni-etf-plunges-most-since-2008.html
The biggest exchange-traded fund
tracking the U.S. municipal debt market posted the largest two-
day loss in more than three years, pulled down after rallying to
a record and the highest premium ever to its underlying assets.  The  iShares S&P National AMT-Free Bond Fund  has fallen 3
percent since Feb. 22 to $110.40, the largest loss since October
2008. It has slumped six out of the eight days since the fund,
known as the MUB, traded at a record 3.96 percent  premium  to the
per-share value of the bonds it holds.  The security fell following reports this week by Matt Fabian of Municipal Market Advisors and Timothy Strauts of
Morningstar Inc., who noted that MUB’s price had surged in
relation to its holdings. Strauts recommended selling it.  “The ETF had outpaced the performance of the underlying
index fairly significantly and even with the last two days’
move, you’re still slightly overvalued,” Bart Mosley, the New
York-based co-president of Trident Municipal Research, said in a
telephone interview. “That is an indication of how far out of
balance it had gotten.”  Yesterday’s slump drove the premium to net asset value down
to 1.67 percent, the lowest since Jan. 20, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It has retreated 3.1 percent since
climbing to a record high of $113.94 on Feb. 13.  “It’s more a technical move,” Fabian, a managing director
at Concord, Massachusetts-based Municipal Market Advisors, said
by e-mail yesterday. The fund “appears extremely overvalued,”
Fabian wrote in a Feb. 21 report.  $2.83 Billion Fund  The fund, with a market capitalization of $2.83 billion,
had rallied 5.1 percent in 2012 through Feb. 22 amid declining
bond sales by states and local governments that made the
security one of the only ways to capture gains from the debt.  Standard & Poor’s  announced adjustments to the holdings of
the S&P National AMT-Free Municipal Bond Index, the gauge the
iShares ETF tracks, as part of a monthly rebalancing. The
changes will take effect at the end of the day on Feb. 29,
according to a statement.  A net $218.5 million was invested in MUB this year, data
compiled by XTF Inc. show. About $164.4 million was added in the
past month, the eighth-highest inflow for U.S. fixed-income
ETFs, data from the New York-based research firm show.  “It was at an unnatural premium,” Strauts, a Chicago-
based analyst at Morningstar, said by phone yesterday. “All the
other muni ETFs were pretty much flat. Nothing special happened
in the market. It seems solely focused on MUB.”  Closer to NAV  Strauts said in his report that investors should buy the
 SPDR Nuveen Barclays Capital Municipal Bond ETF (TFI) , known as TFI,
which is trading closer to its net-asset value. TFI was
unchanged at $24.17 yesterday and was at a discount of 0.06
percent on Feb. 22. The fund has seen inflows of about $72.3
million this year, of which $43.6 million was in the last month.  States and cities have reduced budgets as  tax revenue  stays
below the peaks reached before December 2007, the start of the
longest recession since the 1930s. Issuance dropped to  $258.3
billion (YTDMTOT)  in 2011, the least in eight years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Illiquidity in the municipal market can raise costs for
authorized agents and increase the price of the ETF.  Large orders of ETFs are made through so-called authorized
agents of the sponsors, who purchase blocks of the underlying
assets and trade them with the fund to create new shares. The
mechanism helps an ETF’s share price stay close to its net-asset
value as investors  arbitrage  discrepancies between the fund
shares and underlying holdings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  