-- Billionaires Vie for Railway to $40B Coal Region
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-02-24T06:54:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/billionaires-vie-for-railway-to-40b-coal-region.html
The race to open a $40 billion coal
region in Australia is being led by billionaires Gina Rinehart
and Clive Palmer. Victory depends on who wins approval to build
a 500-kilometer (310-mile) railroad to the coast.  Rinehart, 58, Asia-Pacific’s richest individual, and Indian
billionaire GV Krishna Reddy’s GVK Group are developing a $10
billion mine, rail and port project in the landlocked Galilee
Basin in northern Queensland state.  Adani Enterprises Ltd. (ADE) ,
 India ’s biggest coal importer, has a competing $6.8 billion plan
to build Australia’s largest coal mine in the same area.  The proposed Galilee railroad will allow Australia, already
the world’s second-largest shipper of coal for utilities, to
more than double exports as  China  and India compete for supplies.
Palmer’s China First Pty has threatened an A$8 billion ($8.5
billion) lawsuit against a fourth rail proponent, QR National
Ltd., the nation’s largest coal train operator.  “There is enormous money to be spent on connecting the
mines to the port and everybody wants their own solution,”
 Andrew Harrington , resources analyst at Patersons Securities Ltd.
in Sydney. “There’s been strong tension between the Hancocks
and the Clive Palmers and Adanis about where the line goes. And
now  QR National (QRN)  has come in as a fourth.”  Demand Tripling  Mining companies are being forced to dig further inland to
profit from the rising consumption in China and India, the two
fastest-growing major economies. China will account for 63
percent of the increase in global coal demand through 2016, the
 International Energy Agency  said in a December report.  Electricity demand in  Asia , excluding  Japan , will triple by
2025, with thermal coal remaining the main fuel for generation,
according to Royal Bank of Scotland Plc. Australian thermal coal
exports may rise 48 percent over that period, the bank said.  Rinehart, whose $18 billion fortune tops Forbes Asia’s rich
list, is set to become the world’s wealthiest woman this year,
surpassing Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s Christy Walton. She’s spent
two decades expanding assets inherited from her father,  Lang Hancock , who discovered mines that made Australia the world’s
biggest  iron ore  exporter. She now controls closely held Hancock
Prospecting Pty.  Palmer, 57, is the fifth-richest Australian, worth A$5.05
billion, BRW magazine said in May. He amassed his first fortune
in real estate before moving into resources. In 2010, he
rewarded workers at his Queensland nickel refinery with bonuses
including 700 vacations in Fiji and 50 Mercedes-Benz sedans.  One Rail Option  “ Clive Palmer  and Gina Rinehart -- I think the cast in
this drama is the difficult part,” said Prasad Patkar, who
helps manage about $1 billion at Platypus Asset Management Ltd.
in Sydney, including QR National shares. “They may need a
compelling reason to collaborate, and that compelling reason may
be the government insisting on one set of infrastructure if they
want to develop their tenements.”  The Queensland government wants only a single rail corridor,
state Coordinator-General Keith Davies said in a Jan. 27
statement that revealed QR National’s A$2 billion proposal.  Mark Hairsine, a spokesman for QR National, declined to
comment on the threatened lawsuit. Hancock Prospecting, which
asked that requests for comment to be sent in writing, didn’t
respond to an e-mailed message.  Miners in the basin should build a jointly owned railway
to save costs and speed development,  Vale SA (VALE) , the world’s
biggest exporter of iron ore, said in November. The company may
build a $10 billion project in the region. AMCI Capital LP,
planning the $4.1 billion South Galilee project, also said in
November that the miners needed to cooperate.  Proximity to Ports  “These basins are getting further and further away from
the coast,”  Tom Price , commodity analyst at UBS in Sydney, said
by phone. “The freight factor becomes critical.”  The Galilee basin covers more than 247,000 square
kilometers and contains more than 14 billion metric tons of coal,
according to Hancock’s website. Adani, controlled by billionaire
Gautam Adani, 49, may spend as much as $6.8 billion on its
Carmichael project, which is expected to produce 60 million
metric tons of coal. This would make it  Australia ’s largest coal
mine, according to UBS.  “It’s not unnatural given the scale and the nature of the
interest that there is a tension,” Lance Hockridge, chief
executive officer of Brisbane-based QR National, said Feb. 16 on
a call with reporters. “I wouldn’t like to predict what will
happen.”  Price, the UBS analyst, said he was optimistic the area
will be opened.  Coal Quality  “This coal will get into the market because it’s better
than anything the Indians are consuming, and it’s better than
about a third of the Chinese market, and it’s on par to a little
bit better than a big chunk of Indonesian exports,” he said.  In India, shortages of local coal have prompted power
producers to rely on imported fuel for new plants. Since 2007,
companies including Tata Power, GVK Group and Reliance Power
have announced $4.4 billion of coal-mine acquisitions in
 Indonesia  and Australia, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rinehart last year got the backing of GVK, which agreed in
September to pay $1.26 billion to buy the Kevin’s Corner coal
project, 79 percent stakes in Alpha and Alpha West developments
as well as all of Hancock’s rail and port project.  “Our rail corridor is the most advanced in the Galilee
basin,” G.V. Sanjay Reddy, vice chairman of  GVK Power &
Infrastructure Ltd. (GVKP) , the group’s publicly traded unit, said
yesterday in an interview by phone from Brisbane. “Who will be
selected is up to open competition and given that we believe
we’re the first, I don’t see why we should be in a
disadvantageous position from that point of view.”  GVK shares were unchanged at 17.35 rupees at 12:21 p.m. in
Mumbai. The company has dropped 32 percent in the past year.  China First  Andrew Crook , of Crook Publicity, an outside spokesman for
Waratah Coal, declined to comment.  Palmer’s  Waratah Coal Pty , which incorporates China First,
says Metallurgical Corp. of China Ltd. has arranged funding for
70 percent of the $8 billion capital cost of the China First
project, according to its website.  Hancock , which has sent trial
shipments to China and  South Korea , expects to see first coal in
2015, and Waratah forecasts first production in late 2014.  The Galilee is estimated to produce more than 200 million
tons of thermal coal a year, mostly for export, from at least
five major projects, QR National said in a Feb. 16 investor
presentation. Global thermal coal exports during 2011 totaled an
estimated 783 million tons, according to Morgan Stanley.  Australia shipped 143 million tons of thermal coal in
fiscal 2011, as well as 140 million tons for steelmaking,
government figures show, making it the world’s biggest
steelmaking and second-largest exporter of thermal coal after
Indonesia.  “Galilee is going to be a very significant challenge
logistically, but I think the coal market will need coal from
the Galilee Basin probably toward the backend of this current
decade,”  Peter Richardson , chief metals economist at Morgan
Stanley Australia Ltd., said by phone from  Melbourne .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  