-- Blackstone’s Gray Joins Board as Real Estate Rises to 71% of Firm’s Profit
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-02-24T19:44:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/blackstone-s-gray-joins-board-as-real-estate-rises-to-71-of-firm-s-profit.html
Jonathan Gray , head of global real
estate at  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , will join the firm’s board of
directors after his business brought in $1 billion in profit in
2011.  “Jon has been an integral part of the Blackstone fabric
for the past 20 years,”  Stephen Schwarzman , Blackstone’s chief
executive officer, said in a statement today. “He heads one of
our largest and most successful businesses with the highest
standards of excellence and integrity.”  Gray, 42, joined Blackstone in 1992 after graduating from
the  University of Pennsylvania . He became a senior managing
director in 2000 and co-head of real estate in 2005 with Chad Pike, who moved last year to become vice chairman of Blackstone
Europe. Gray, whose unit accounted for 71 percent of
Blackstone’s profit last year, sits on the New York-based firm’s
management and executive committees.  Blackstone and other big private equity managers have
sought to diversify their businesses after the 2008 financial
crisis eroded investor appetite for traditional buyouts.
Blackstone’s real estate unit oversaw $31.2 billion of fee-
earning assets as of Dec. 31, up 16 percent from a year earlier
and 32 percent from the end of 2009.  The firm raised more than $10 billion in less than a year
for its next real estate fund and is seeking $2 billion more
this year, according to a person familiar with the plans. The
new fund would be the biggest private equity real estate pool
ever.  Biggest Buyout Ever  In June, Blackstone acquired the U.S. malls of  Australia ’s
 Centro Properties Group  for about $9.4 billion, the firm’s
biggest deal since the leveraged buyout boom collapsed in 2007.
The transaction made Blackstone the second-largest U.S. owner of
neighborhood and community shopping centers after Kimco Realty
Corp.  The acquisition was Blackstone’s biggest since another real
estate deal co-led by Gray, the buyout of the former Hilton
Hotels Corp. in 2007 for $26 billion, including assumed debt.
The year before, he orchestrated a deal between Blackstone and
 Sam Zell ’s Equity Office Properties Trust, which at $39 billion
was the biggest buyout ever at the time.  Gray has been known to be a diligent deal-chaser, skipping
the 2007  Super Bowl  to monitor the bidding for Equity Office and
celebrating after the deal with a bottle of champagne before
getting back to work. Blackstone started its first real estate
fund in 1994 with $335 million when Gray was a junior-level
employee under the unit’s head, John Schreiber, according to a
New York Observer  profile  last year.  Real Estate Funds  He made his imprint in real estate when he led Blackstone’s
purchase of Extended Stay America Inc., a $3.4 billion portfolio
of 685 properties, after hotel values plummeted in the wake of
the 2001 terrorist attacks.  Blackstone’s next real estate fund will buy mostly
distressed-property assets, two people with knowledge of the
plans said last month. Blackstone Real Estate Partners VII,
which is expected to finish fundraising this year, follows the
$10.9 billion property fund the firm closed in 2008.  The real estate unit’s primary focus this year is
bankruptcies, distressed situations and non-core asset sales,
Schwarzman said on a call with analysts and investors this
month.  “All are being purchased at a significant discount to
replacement cost,” he said. “This, along with the volume of
troubled commercial real estate loans already in the system, are
coming due in the next few years to drive a very active pipeline
of attractive opportunities for us.”  Gray joins seven other directors on Blackstone’s board,
including Schwarzman, President  Tony James , Vice Chairman J. Tomilson Hill and four outside members, according to the firm’s
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  