-- BNY Mellon, Citigroup, Berkshire Hathaway in Court News
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-02-24T13:17:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/bny-mellon-citigroup-berkshire-hathaway-jordan-in-court-news.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , the
world’s largest custody bank, may head to trial to defend
against a lawsuit by Virginia claiming the state’s pension funds
were defrauded in foreign-currency trades.  A state judge in Fairfax, Virginia, rejected the bank’s
request for a so-called plea in bar hearing where BNY Mellon
could seek dismissal of the case by presenting evidence it
claims shows Virginia agreed to its pricing procedures for
currency trades.  “I think we need to have a full trial on this issue,”
Fairfax County Circuit Judge Terrence Ney said, according to a
transcript of a Feb. 17 hearing. “I just don’t think it makes
sense to take what is really the heart of the bank’s defense and
try to squeeze it down into a plea in bar when it’s really about
the entire case.”  Virginia Attorney General Kenneth Cuccinelli sued the New
York-based bank in August, claiming it violated state law by
charging “undisclosed markups” on currency-exchange trades to
six retirement funds. Virginia is seeking about $931.6 million
in damages.  BNY Mellon has twice sought to have the case dismissed,
arguing that it can’t be sued under the Virginia Fraud Against
Taxpayers Act because the alleged false or fraudulent claims
weren’t submitted to the state for payment.  “The court’s decision is procedural and not a ruling on
the merits of the case,” Kevin Heine, a BNY Mellon spokesman,
said yesterday. “We continue to believe this lawsuit reflects a
flawed understanding of foreign currency markets.”  Brian Gottstein, a spokesman for Cuccinelli, didn’t respond
to phone and e-mail messages seeking comment on the ruling.  Attorneys general in  New York  and Florida, as well as U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan, have sued over the same
issue. Massachusetts filed an administrative action against the
bank.  The case is  Commonwealth of Virginia  v.  Bank of New York
Mellon Corp. (BK) , 09-15377, Circuit Court for the County of Fairfax,
Virginia (Fairfax).  Trials/Appeals  Citibank Judgment Against Developer Upheld by Appeals Court  Sheldon H. Solow, the billionaire real-estate developer,
lost a bid to have an appeals court overturn a $98.9 million
judgment against him in a suit brought by  Citigroup Inc.’s (C) 
Citibank NA unit.  Citibank sued Solow in 2008, saying he failed to make
payments on a $503 million line of credit it provided to develop
a site along New York’s East River. Solow said the bank rebuffed
his offer of more collateral and instead sold his initial
collateral for millions of dollars less than fair market value.  New York State Supreme Court Justice Bernard Fried in March
2010 granted the bank’s request for a verdict before trial and
awarded the company $85.7 million plus fees and damages.  A New York appeals court upheld that ruling yesterday,
saying that Solow didn’t support his claim that the value of the
collateral was “determined in bad faith.” The sale of the
collateral was “commercially reasonable” because New York-
based Citibank wasn’t bound to wait and risk a declining market
and the sale price wasn’t significantly lower than the market
value, the appeals court said.  Donald A. Corbett, an attorney at Lowenstein Sandler PC in
New York who represented Solow in his appeal, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message left at his office seeking comment
on the ruling.  The case is Citibank NA v. Solow, 603697/2008, New York
State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Dropped From Ex-Employee Suit  Warren Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  was dismissed from
a lawsuit filed in Indiana by a former manager at its Forest
River unit who said he was fired after complaining about illegal
transactions.  U.S. District Judge James T. Moody in South Bend dismissed
Berkshire Hathaway in a decision dated Feb. 22. Forest River,
which makes recreational vehicles, and founder Peter J. Liegl,
remain defendants in the suit brought by Brad A. Mart, who was
general manager of Forest River Financial Services.  “Because no claims remain against Berkshire Hathaway, it
is dismissed from the case,” Moody wrote in his decision, which
was entered in the case docket yesterday.  Berkshire Hathaway, based in Omaha, Nebraska, agreed to buy
Forest River in 2005 for an undisclosed price. Mart said Liegl
agreed to make him chief executive officer of Elkhart, Indiana-
based Forest River when the founder retired in 2008.  Stephen A. Kennedy, a lawyer for Mart in Dallas, didn’t
immediately return a call for comment on the ruling.  “With respect to the pending claims, the company intends
to defend them vigorously,” Steven J. Pearlman, a lawyer for
Forest River and Liegl with Seyfarth Shaw LLP in Chicago, said
in a telephone interview.  The case is Mart v. Forest River, 10-cv-118, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Indiana (South Bend).  Mark Madoff’s Ex-Wife Says Trustee Suit Is ‘Time-Barred’  The late Mark Madoff’s ex-wife, Susan Elkin, challenged a
bid by the liquidator of Bernard L. Madoff’s firm to name her in
an amended complaint against the family, saying his effort to
recover money is “time-barred” as it was received beyond the
six years allowed by New York law.  Mark Madoff, the convicted confidence man’s son, married
Elkin in 1989. The couple divorced in 2000, more than eight
years before Madoff’s 2008 arrest and his firm’s bankruptcy,
Elkin said yesterday in a bankruptcy court filing in Manhattan.  The Madoff trustee, Irving Picard, knew of the marriage and
can’t “plausibly claim,” as he has tried to do, that he would
have named her in the original complaint if he hadn’t mistaken
her identity, she said.  Martin Flumenbaum, a lawyer for  Andrew Madoff  and Mark
Madoff’s estate, has said the lawsuit is “wholly without
merit.” Picard’s spokeswoman, Amanda Remus, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment on Elkin’s filing.  The case is Picard v. Estate of Mark Madoff, 09-01503, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Syracuse University Wins Bid to Move Sex-Abuse Suit Upstate  A lawsuit filed against Syracuse University by two men who
claim they were sexually molested by former assistant basketball
coach  Bernie Fine  was moved out of New York City to an upstate
courthouse.  New York State Supreme Court Justice Brian F. DeJoseph in
Syracuse Feb. 22 granted a motion by lawyers for the university
and co-defendant Jim Boeheim, the head men’s basketball coach,
to have the case heard in Onondoga County, where the school is
based and where plaintiff Robert “Bobby” Davis lives.  Davis and his stepbrother Michael Lang, of Oswego County,
who both served as ball boys for the Syracuse basketball
program, sued the school and Boeheim in in Manhattan on Dec. 13.
Fine, who has denied wrongdoing, wasn’t named in the suit and
the university has declined to comment on the complaint.  The plaintiffs argued that the case should stay in
Manhattan as local media coverage has “tainted the local jury
pool,” DeJoseph said in his ruling. “The plaintiffs’ arguments
are well-crafted and are certainly worth of review from this
court, but they still equate to nothing more than mere beliefs,
suspicions and a feeling of possible bias.”  Syracuse fired Fine, who was in his 36th season at the
upstate New York university, on Nov. 27 after he was accused of
sexually abusing the two former ball boys. Onondaga County
District Attorney  William Fitzpatrick  said on Dec. 8 that Fine
won’t face charges related to those allegations because the
claims are too old to prosecute.  The judge, a graduate of Syracuse University, said in his
decision that articles from national and local outlets after
Fine’s dismissal aren’t completely one-sided and can’t be
considered “unduly unfair.”  Gloria Allred, an attorney representing Davis and Lang,
said she is reviewing the university’s move for a change of
venue.  The cases are Davis v. Boeheim, 000255/2012, Onondaga
County Supreme Court (Syracuse); and Davis v. Boeheim,
113967/2011, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  Expert Networker Kinnucan Can Be Freed on $5 Million Bond  A federal judge in Manhattan ruled that John Kinnucan, the
Broadband Research LLC founder indicted Feb. 21 for insider
trading, can be freed on $5 million bond, rejecting prosecutors’
claims he engaged in a “campaign” of threats.  U.S. District Judge Deborah Batts agreed to release
Kinnucan on the bond, ordering it be secured by $100,000 cash
and property and signed by four financially responsible people.  Prosecutors yesterday argued Kinnucan, 54, posed a danger
to the community and a threat to authorities handling his case,
citing at least 24 voice-mail messages he left after hours at
the office phones of federal prosecutors and Federal Bureau of
Investigation agents and also at the homes of two cooperating
witnesses during the past two months.  Batts said prosecutors had come “extremely close” to
convincing her he should remain in custody before trial because
he posed a danger to the community, prosecutors and agents.  “In the last two months Mr. Kinnucan has engaged in a
campaign of obstruction, harassment and intimidation,”
Assistant U.S. Attorney Chris LaVigne said in court. “These are
the actions of a calculated man dead set upon acting.”  Thomas Hester, Kinnucan’s court-appointed lawyer in Oregon,
argued his client was “no John Gotti” and had recently been
under stress, which triggered the spate of calls, including the
recent deaths of two brothers and his mother.  The case is U.S. v. Kinnucan, 12-cv-163, U.S District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Verdicts, Settlements, Pleas  Two Investors Plead Guilty to Tax Lien Auction Bid-Rigging  Two investors pleaded guilty to conspiring to rig bids at
municipal tax lien auctions in  New Jersey  and are cooperating in
a larger U.S. investigation, the Justice Department said.  The men admitted yesterday after being charged in U.S.
District Court in Newark, New Jersey, that they conspired to
eliminate competition by allocating bids at public auctions by
the state’s 566 municipalities. Bidders are supposed to compete
fairly for the right to buy liens and collect taxes on property,
with bidding starting at 18 percent and then going lower.  Robert W. Stein, of Huntington Valley, Pennsylvania, and
David M. Farber, of Cherry Hill, New Jersey, admitted they
worked to limit competition and buy liens which returned a
higher interest rate. On Aug. 24, three other people pleaded
guilty to bid-rigging in New Jersey auctions.  The cases are U.S. v. Stein and U.S. v. Farber, U.S.
District Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  For more, click here.  Whitney Bank Will Pay $6.8 Million to End Overdraft Case  Hancock Holding Co. (HBHC) ’s Whitney Bank reached a preliminary
agreement to pay $6.8 million to settle litigation claiming that
it gouged customers on overdraft fees for checking accounts,
court records show.  The proposed settlement will be filed with the federal
court in Tampa, Florida, within 45 days, according to court
records.  “The recovery is excellent for customers, and it offers
them the easiest process to get paid,” Jeffrey Ostrow, the
plaintiff’s attorney, said in a telephone interview.  “While the company admits no wrongdoing, in order to fully
and finally resolve the litigation and avoid significant costs
and expenses that would be involved in defending the case as
well as the distraction caused by the litigation, Whitney Bank
has entered into an agreement in principle,” the bank said
yesterday in a regulatory filing.  At least 30 banks have been sued over their overdraft-fee
policies. The customers say the banks reorder debit-card
transactions in their computers to maximize overdraft fees.  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC) , the second-biggest U.S. bank by assets, agreed
last year to pay $410 million without admitting liability to
settle an overdraft lawsuit brought by its customers.  The case is Angelique LaCour v. Whitney Bank, 11-cv-1896,
U.S. District Court, Middle District of Florida (Tampa).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  New Suits  HSH Nordbank Sues Barclays Over Mortgage Backed Securities  HSH Nordbank AG, a regional German lender that was bailed
out during the financial crisis, sued Barclays Bank Plc in New
York over the purchase of $122.7 million in residential
mortgage-backed securities.  Barclays made “misrepresentations and omissions” in
offering materials about characteristics of the mortgage loans
underlying the securities, including the percentage of
properties occupied by the owners, Hamburg-based HSH Nordbank
said in a complaint filed yesterday in New York State Supreme
Court in Manhattan.  Pools of home loans securitized into bonds were a central
part of the housing bubble that helped send the U.S. into the
biggest recession since the 1930s. The housing market collapsed,
and the crisis swept up lenders and investment banks as the
market for the securities evaporated.  A phone call to the press office at Barclays headquarters
in  London  after normal business hours seeking comment on the
lawsuit wasn’t answered.  The case is  HSH Nordbank AG (BARC)  v. Barclays Bank Plc,
650508/2012, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  Exxon Mobil Sues Insurers to Recover Asbestos Suit Money  Exxon Mobil Corp., the world’s second-most valuable
company, sued dozens of insurers in New York state court to
recover money for asbestos lawsuits.  The oil producer filed the lawsuit yesterday against some
underwriters at Lloyd’s of London and other insurers, seeking a
declaration of their “rights, duties and obligations” to cover
Exxon Mobil’s defense costs and indemnify the company for money
it’s obligated to pay as a result of asbestos claims.  The  claims  arise from alleged exposure during several
decades to asbestos-containing materials at facilities owned by
Exxon Corp. and Mobil Corp., and Mobil’s manufacture and
distribution of asbestos-containing products from 1963 until
about 1980, according to the filing. Exxon bought Mobil in 1999
for $85.2 billion in stock and assumed debt.  “Claims by thousands of plaintiffs against Exxon Mobil
have been settled or otherwise disposed of,” the Irving, Texas-
based company said in the complaint. “Thousands more remain
pending against Exxon Mobil, and Exxon Mobil expects many more
to be filed in the future.”  Lloyd’s of London declined to comment on the lawsuit.  Apple Inc. is the world’s biggest company by market value.  The case is  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  v. Certain Underwriters at
Lloyd’s, London, 650503/2012, New York State Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  Vitro Units Sued in New York by U.S. Bank Over Unpaid Notes  Units of  Vitro SAB (VITRO) , the Mexican glassmaker that defaulted
in 2009, were sued by a trustee for noteholders, which is
seeking to recover $311 million on unpaid notes.  U.S. Bank NA, the trustee for Vitro’s 11.75 percent senior
notes due in 2013, sued subsidiaries to recover principal,
interest and fees owed, according to a complaint filed Feb. 22
in New York State Supreme Court. The bank is seeking damages on
behalf of noteholders of about $311 million, according to the
filing.  Vitro said this month that a Mexican judge gave final
approval to its plan to restructure $1.5 billion in defaulted
debt. U.S. noteholders fought the plan, and U.S. Bank said in
its court filing that it was appealing the Mexico decision along
with other creditors.  The Vitro units sued by U.S. Bank guaranteed the notes, and
the trustee is seeking a court ruling that the guaranty
obligations can’t be discharged through the Mexican proceeding,
according to the court filing.  The guaranties have been discharged under the approved
restructuring plan, according to a statement from Roberto Riva
Palacio, a Vitro spokesman.  The case is U.S. Bank NA v. Vitro Automotriz SA,
650506-2012, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  Glaxo Sues XenoPort Over Contract for Restless-Leg Medicine  A  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  unit sued  XenoPort Inc. (XNPT)  in federal
court in Delaware, seeking a ruling that it properly promoted
the restless-leg medicine Horizant in the U.S.  Glaxo Group of Middlesex, England, and Santa Clara,
California-based XenoPort agreed to collaborate on Horizant
starting in 2007 and the drug was approved by the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration last year, according to court papers.  Last month, XenoPort told Glaxo it wasn’t doing enough “to
commercialize and promote Horizant” or reach certain
milestones, and said it would terminate the agreement, Glaxo
contends in the suit.  The British company asked a federal judge in Wilmington to
rule it has complied with XenoPort’s terms and to preserve
Glaxo’s “exclusive license rights” to Horizant.  Jackie Cossmon, a XenoPort spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
reply to voice and e-mail messages seeking comment on the
lawsuit.  The case is Glaxo Group Ltd. v. XenoPort Inc., U.S.
District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  News Corp. Sued Over Phone Hacking by Former Union Chief  News Corp. (NWSA)  was sued by a former union leader over claims
tabloids hacked into his phone messages, adding to the company’s
legal troubles as it seeks to avoid the first civil trial over
the scandal.  Andy Gilchrist, the U.K. general secretary for the Fire
Brigades Union from 2000 to 2005, sued Feb. 10 in London over
“incidents” during that period, his lawyer  Tom Jones , of
Thompsons Solicitors, said yesterday in a phone interview.  The phone-hacking litigation has focused on the defunct
News of the World tabloid. Jones declined to say which title is
involved in the Gilchrist case. Gilchrist told the Independent
newspaper last year that police were investigating whether News
Corp.’s daily Sun newspaper hacked his phone during a union pay
dispute.  News Corp. Chairman Rupert Murdoch, who shuttered the News
of the World in July to help contain public anger over the
scandal, flew to London this month to tell Sun staff he’s
committed to the paper after 10 of its journalists were arrested
in a probe of reporters’ bribing public officials.  News Corp.’s U.K. unit, News International, is preparing to
start its first Sunday edition of the Sun to replace the News of
the World.  News International’s spokeswoman, Daisy Dunlop, said the
company isn’t aware of the lawsuit’s being filed. A spokesman
for the Metropolitan Police, who couldn’t be identified in line
with office policy, declined to comment on the hacking
accusation.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  The case is Gilchrist v. News Group Newspapers, HC12C00562,
High Court of Justice, Chancery Division (London).  Michael Jordan Sues Chinese Sportswear Company Over Use of Name  Michael Jordan, the hall-of-fame basketball player who
heads his own division at the world’s largest sporting-goods
maker  Nike Inc. (NKE) , sued a Chinese maker of sportswear and shoes
for unauthorized use of his name.  Jordan, who won six National Basketball Association
championships with the Chicago Bulls, filed the lawsuit with a
Chinese court against  Qiaodan Sports Co. (QDTYSZ) , according to a
statement. The Chinese company, which is preparing to raise 1.06
billion yuan ($168 million) in a listing in Shanghai, is accused
of using Jordan’s Chinese name and jersey number 23 without
permission.  “It is deeply disappointing to see a company build a
business off my Chinese name without my permission, use the
number 23 and even attempt to use the names of my children,”
Jordan said in a statement. “I am taking this action to
preserve ownership of my name and my brand.”  “‘Qiaodan’ is a brand we registered according to Chinese
law, and its lawful use should be protected,” Qiaodan said in a
statement posted on its website Feb. 22. “We will make further
clarification through our website if there’s any development.”
The company said it hadn’t received any court notice as of noon
yesterday.  Jordan said in the statement issued yesterday that any
monetary awards from the lawsuit “will be invested in growing
the sport of basketball in China.”  Seven States Sue Over Health-Care Law Birth Control Mandate  Seven states sued the U.S. seeking to block a government
mandate requiring religious organizations to offer birth control
for their employees.  The lawsuit, filed yesterday in federal court in Nebraska
by the state’s attorney General Jon Bruning, claims the
requirement violates free exercise of religion and freedom of
speech rights. The case, brought on behalf of Catholic schools,
organizations, and individuals, was joined by Florida, Michigan,
Ohio, Oklahoma, South Carolina and Texas.  The mandate is part of the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act, which President Barack Obama signed into
law in 2010. This month, Obama offered a compromise that would
force health insurers, and not religious-affiliated charities,
to pay for contraceptives for employees of those institutions.
Republican lawmakers have vowed to push for a measure in
Congress to repeal the policy.  Erin Shields, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Department of
Health and Human Services, declined to comment on pending
litigation.  The case is Nebraska v. U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services, 12-CV-03035, U.S. District Court for the District of
Nebraska.  Comcast Sues Sprint Unit Over Four Telecommunications Patents  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the largest U.S. cable company, sued a unit
of  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  alleging infringement of four
telecommunications patents.  Comcast, in a complaint filed Feb. 21 in Delaware federal
court, contends that services provided by Sprint, the nation’s
third-largest wireless phone company, misappropriate technology
used for accessing communication data, determining a telephone
number and optimizing a telephony network.  Comcast last week filed a separate suit against Sprint
claiming infringement of four other telecommunication patents in
federal court in Philadelphia. Sprint sued Philadelphia-based
Comcast and three other cable companies in December alleging
infringement of patents related to transmitting phone calls over
digital lines.  Scott M. Sloat, a spokesman for Overland Park, Kansas-based
Sprint, said the company couldn’t immediately comment on the
lawsuit.  To see the patents, click: 7,012,916; 7,206,304; 7,903,641
and 6,873,694.  The case is Comcast v. Sprint, 12-cv-00205, U.S. District
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 