-- BOE’s Fisher Expresses ‘Open Mind’ on QE, City A.M. Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-24T04:05:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/boe-s-fisher-expresses-open-mind-on-qe-city-a-m-says-1-.html
Bank of England Markets Director
 Paul Fisher  said the central bank could increase asset purchases
again in May depending on the economic outlook, according to an
interview with the London newspaper City A.M.  “We may get surprises, positive or negative before then
which causes us to change our mind, but at the moment I would
have a completely open mind going into the next round whether or
not we need to” do more quantitative easing, Fisher was quoted
as saying in an edited transcript on City A.M.’s website.  U.K. policy makers led by Governor  Mervyn King  this month
agreed to pump 50 billion pounds ($78.7 billion) into the
nation’s economy over three months, boosting the target for bond
purchases to 325 billion pounds. Fisher said in the interview
that “it was still worth doing a bit more QE” to eliminate the
risk of a “severe recession,” the newspaper said.  Adding 50 billion pounds, instead of a larger or smaller
amount, gives policy makers more freedom to decide whether to
buy additional securities later, Fisher said. “If you look at
our inflation forecast” with that amount, “we were just about
back to being evenly balanced around the inflation target by the
end of the horizon,” he said.  Fisher said that “you never hear a very good reason why we
should” buy assets other than gilts.  The official said the economic outlook is “incredibly
uncertain,” and that he feels “slightly more comfortable about
the inflation outlook than the outlook for growth,” according
to City A.M.  Fisher, a member of the Bank of England’s Financial Policy
Committee, also said the decision-making body is taking the
right approach in guiding the U.K.’s banking system. Critics
can’t see “what the benefits will be once we get to a level
where everyone can perceive that the banking system is safer,
there’s less chance of public money being used to bail people
out,” Fisher said, according to the newspaper.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Scott Lanman in Beijing at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
 John Simpson  in Toronto at 
 jsimpson12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  