-- BP’s Fate Rests With Ex-Maritime Lawyer Who Represented Sailors
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 2012-02-25T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/bp-s-fate-in-oil-spill-case-rests-with-judge-who-sued-on-behalf-of-sailors.html
How much  BP Plc (BP)  will pay for the
2010 explosion of a Gulf of Mexico oil rig that killed 11 people
and caused the largest offshore spill in U.S. history may rest
with a former maritime lawyer who began his career representing
sailors in personal-injury cases.  U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  of  New Orleans  can draw on
that experience as he oversees the first phase of the case
against London-based  BP (BP)  and other companies over the blast on
the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig and subsequent oil spill. The
trial is to begin Feb. 27 amid continuing settlement talks
between BP and the U.S., a person familiar with the talks said.  “He knows maritime law backward and forwards, and that’s
one of the reasons he got this case,” said  Val Exnicios , a New
Orleans lawyer representing a group of commercial fishermen
suing BP,  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  and other firms involved in operations
at the rig. “You want a judge who knows this area of the law
cold, given the complexities.”  A judicial panel assigned Barbier, 67, all federal
litigation over the BP spill in August 2010. The judge, who
declined requests for an interview, is slated to preside over a
three-month, nonjury trial that will apportion blame and
determine exposure to punitive damages for the blast.  The April 2010 Macondo well blowout sent almost 5 million
barrels of oil spewing into the gulf, according to a U.S.
government report issued in September.  Hundreds of Lawsuits  The accident spawned hundreds of lawsuits against BP and
its partners, including Transocean, the Vernier, Switzerland-
based owner and operator of the drilling rig, and Houston-based
 Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which provided cementing services on the
facility.  The lawsuits include pollution claims by federal and state
governments and consolidated cases brought by thousands of
commercial fishermen, seafood processors, property owners and
tourism-related businesses harmed by the spill.  Barbier grew up in the  West Bank , a cluster of suburbs,
small cities and unincorporated towns straddling the border of
the Orleans and Jefferson parishes, across the Mississippi River
from the city of New Orleans. He went to high school in Harvey,
a residential neighborhood of single-family homes that sprung up
around the oilfield services industry and the Harvey Industrial
Canal.  Barbier won a football scholarship to Southeastern
 Louisiana  University, where he played on the offensive and
defensive lines.  Mississippi River  His father, Walter Louis Barbier, worked as a marine diesel
engineer for  Mississippi River  Bridge Authority and the
Louisiana Department of Transportation & Development, according
to state officials.  After earning a business degree in 1966, Barbier worked as
a high school teacher and accountant, including stints at Boeing
Co. and  Shell Oil Co. (RDSA) , while attending law school, according to
testimony to the  U.S. Senate  in 1998 after he was nominated to
the bench by President  Bill Clinton .  After finishing law school at Loyola University in 1970,
Barbier clerked for state and federal judges before entering
private practice, representing seamen and other plaintiffs suing
under federal maritime statutes. He went on to start his own  law
firm .  Recoveries for his clients include a $325,000 settlement
for a welder injured when a Greek tanker slammed into a fleet of
barges moored on the Mississippi River in 1992, according to his
Senate filing.  Fallen Driller  He also represented a driller who fell through an unsecured
grating on an oil platform, winning him $300,000 in a case that
was later cited by the Louisiana Supreme Court in another
matter, according to the Senate questionnaire.  “He has an understanding of the fellow who has been hurt
as a seaman,”  Blake Jones , a New Orleans-based plaintiffs’
lawyer who handles maritime suits. Jones is representing a
business owner in the spill case who contends BP’s oil damaged
18,000-acres of his oyster beds.  Barbier has planned two subsequent nonjury trials focusing
on the size of the 2010 spill and efforts to contain it. Test
jury trials on damages are to follow.  “The judge has already done a good job of whittling down
the case to make it more manageable,” said  Edward Sherman , a
Tulane University Law School professor in New Orleans who
teaches classes on complex litigation and mass-tort law. “Many
times, judges are reluctant to make tough pretrial rulings that
narrow the focus of an environmental disaster or mass-tort
case.”  Maritime Law  The case is being tried under U.S. maritime law, which
covers shipping and navigation activities in inland and coastal
waters. Judges can choose to hear maritime disputes without
juries. Maritime law requires owners and operators of drilling
platforms to conduct safe operations that don’t damage the
environment, plaintiffs suing BP and other defendants contend in
court filings.  Barbier initially set the first phase of the trial as a
limitation-of-liability action. The trial was to consider
Transocean’s effort to cap its financial exposure over the spill
under an 1851 law designed to protect ship owners. He later
expanded that to include claims of fault for the disaster
against all defendants.  BP and some defendants also are facing claims from the U.S.
government under both the Oil Pollution Act and the  Clean Water
Act  as part of the liability trial.  Exxon Valdez  The Oil Pollution Act was passed after the 1989 Exxon
Valdez  oil spill  in  Alaska , when a grounded tanker dumped 11
million gallons of oil into Alaska’s Prince William Sound.  Under the law, a well owner is considered the responsible
party and is liable for damages and cleanup costs. BP already
has acknowledged that it’s among those responsible under the
act. Barbier must decide who else may be liable for the spill.  The Clean Water Act governs pollution discharges into
bodies of water and allows regulators to seek fines of as much
as $1,100 a barrel for oil spilled through simple negligence and
as much as $4,300 a barrel against parties found to have been
grossly negligent.  On Feb. 22, Barbier held BP and Anadarko strictly liable
under the Clean Water Act, allowing the U.S. to seek as much as
$1,100 from them for every barrel spilled. Transocean’s
liability is to be determined at trial.  The trial also will determine whether the companies were
grossly negligent, which could boost the possible maximum fines
under the Clean Water Act to the $4,300-a-barrel limit. Barbier
would set the fines after a later trial.  Punitive Damages  If Barbier finds BP and other defendants’ handling of
drilling operations and the spill grossly negligent, he can also
award punitive damages to businesses and property owners under
maritime law, said Tulane’s Sherman.  “The trial will address all allocation-of-fault issues
that may properly be tried to the bench without a jury,”
Barbier has said. That includes “the negligence, gross
negligence, or other bases of liability of, and the proportion
of liability allocable to the various defendants, third parties,
and non-parties,” he has said.  Before his elevation to the federal bench, Barbier served
as the head of the Louisiana Trial Lawyers Association, a group
made up primarily of plaintiffs’ attorneys.  As head of the group, Barbier successfully lobbied against
Louisiana Governor  Mike Foster ’s bid to have lawmakers create a
no-fault car-insurance system for the state, which would have
restricted motorists’ right to sue over accidents, according to
the New Orleans Times-Picayune newspaper.  Sold Bonds  Barbier said in 2010 that he sold Transocean and
Halliburton bonds he held in his investment portfolio “so there
is no perception of a conflict in these cases.” The judge’s
work as a trial lawyer prompted some critics to question his
impartiality in BP spill decisions.  Melissa Landry, executive director of  Louisiana Lawsuit
Abuse Watch , a nonprofit watchdog group, criticized his December
ruling ordering 6 percent of settlements set aside as potential
fees for plaintiffs’ lawyers overseeing consolidated claims in
the spill cases.  The fee set-aside is “ludicrous and absolutely unjust,”
Landry said in a January interview. “It certainly calls into
question his impartiality and it certainly reminds one of his
previous life.”  Exnicios, the plaintiffs’ lawyer, said Barbier has issued
rulings that have displeased both sides in the case.  As part of the trial, Barbier will be called on to sift
through hundreds of thousands of pages of reports, depositions
and exhibits to decide what companies are liable for spill
damage and who can recover.  He “understands who his boss is, which is a relatively
conservative  Fifth  U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals,” Jones said.
“I don’t think he will stray too far off the leash.”  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the  Gulf of Mexico  on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans at 
 allenmct@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  