-- BP Plans to Withdraw From Solar-Energy Venture in Australia
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-02-24T07:59:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/bp-tells-partners-of-plan-to-withdraw-from-australia-solar-power-project.html
BP Plc (BP/) ,  Europe ’s second-largest oil
company, plans to withdraw from a venture seeking Australian
government funds to build a solar-power project in the state of
New South Wales.  “We’ve indicated that we wish to leave the consortium and
that we won’t be part of the new bid process,” Jamie Jardine, a
Melbourne-based spokesman for BP, said by mobile phone today.  BP, Fotowatio Renewable Ventures and Pacific Hydro Pty,
which won A$306.5 million ($329 million) in Australian funds
last year to build the Moree solar farm, missed a December
financing deadline. That prompted the government to reopen the
competition to other bidders, including AGL Energy Ltd.  The company decided to exit the global solar business after
40 years because it has become unprofitable, Mike Petrucci, the
chief executive officer of BP’s solar unit, told staff in an
internal letter in December. The industry faces oversupply and
price pressures after Chinese competitors increased production.  BP and its partners in the proposed A$923 million solar
photovoltaic plant had failed to sign power-supply agreements
needed to advance with the project, it said in December. The
company said Dec. 23 it was sticking with the Australian project,
even after deciding to exit the business globally.  “In the past two weeks, we’ve worked with the consortium
to refine and develop the proposal, and we believe the new
consortium will be an effective one,” Jardine said today.  The Moree venture will be eligible to bid for the funds and
have a chance to show it is “still the most meritorious
project,”  Australia ’s Resources and Energy Minister Martin Ferguson said earlier this month. The government also invited
TRUenergy Holdings Pty Ltd. and Suntech Power Holdings Co. to
update their applications seeking solar grants.  The government expects to make a decision in the second
quarter, according to Ferguson.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 