-- BP Wins Most Pentagon Fuel Awards in Year After Gulf Explosion
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2012-02-24T05:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/bp-wins-most-pentagon-fuel-awards-in-year-after-gulf-of-mexico-explosion.html
The scorn heaped upon  BP (BP)  Plc
following the biggest offshore oil spill in U.S. history in 2010
wasn’t echoed at the U.S.  Defense Department (USBODEFN) . It stepped up
purchases from the London-based company, making it the
Pentagon’s biggest fuel supplier.  BP’s contracts with the military surged 33 percent to $1.35
billion in the fiscal year that ended Sept. 30 from $1.02
billion in fiscal 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
Government. BP received 49 percent more in defense contracts
than the No. 2 fuel supplier, San Antonio-based  Valero Energy
Corp. (VLO)   To critics, BP’s favored spot at the Pentagon cash window
adds insult to the injury caused by the April 2010 explosion of
the Deepwater Horizon oil rig in the  Gulf of Mexico . The
incident killed 11 workers, sullied hundreds of miles of
coastline and crippled the region’s fishing and tourism
industries.  “When BP still owes billions of dollars in possible fines
and penalties for their spill in the Gulf of Mexico, our
military shouldn’t renew lucrative contracts” for the company,
said Massachusetts Representative  Edward Markey , the top
Democrat on the House Natural Resources Committee. It’s time
“for our government to stand up to BP,” Markey said in an e-
mail.  A trial to determine compensation for businesses and
residents victimized by the spill is scheduled to begin Feb. 27
in New Orleans federal court. The company also faces hundreds of
other lawsuits, at least 40 filed by survivors or relatives of
the 126-member crew that was aboard the rig.  ‘Not Right’  “BP still hasn’t fulfilled its commitment to fund the
restoration of the Gulf of Mexico, but they pocketed $26 billion
of profits last year, thanks in part to these government
contracts, and that’s not right,” Jeremy Symons, senior vice
president at the National Wildlife Federation in Reston,
 Virginia , said in an interview.  Most of the contract money awarded to BP by the Defense
Department was subject to full and open competition, according
to federal procurement data. The company offered the lowest
price, said Michelle McCaskill, a spokeswoman for the  Defense
Logistics Agency , which buys fuel for the Pentagon.  Government agencies are allowed to suspend or disqualify
companies from receiving contracts if they have committed or are
suspected of committing wrongdoing.  “BP is neither suspended nor debarred and is therefore
eligible to offer on and receive U.S. government contracts,”
McCaskill said in an e-mail.  Biggest Consumer  The company’s facilities in the Gulf of Mexico don’t play
any role in its government work, said  Scott Dean , a BP spokesman
in Warrenville, Illinois. He declined to comment further on the
company’s contracting.  The Pentagon awarded $14.7 billion in fuel contracts in
fiscal 2011. Eleven suppliers accounted for half of the total,
led by BP, the world’s sixth-biggest  oil company  by market
value.  Also among the top 10 Pentagon fuel suppliers are No. 6
 Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the fourth-largest oil company by market value
and No. 4  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , which ranks third by the same
measure.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the world’s biggest publicly traded
oil company, was the Pentagon’s 12th-largest supplier last year.  Too Big  The military’s hunger for oil may make it too difficult to
eliminate major providers, said Scott Amey, general counsel of
the Project on Government Oversight, a watchdog group in
 Washington . Excluding countries, the Defense Department is the
world’s biggest consumer of energy.  “There is a sense that large federal contractors, like BP,
are too big to suspend or debar,” Amey said in an e-mail.  “The government’s over-reliance on such companies can make
it nearly impossible to hold them accountable, absent a monetary
penalty and promises to keep clean,” he said. “Temporarily
cutting off millions or billions in taxpayer funds seems like a
better way to get a company’s attention and truly alter
corporate culture.”  The military’s global reach makes geography an important
determinant of the Pentagon’s fuel suppliers. Valero, Chevron
and  World Fuel Services Corp. (INT) , a Miami-based marketer of marine
and aviation fuel, are the only U.S.-based companies among the
top 10. World Fuel ranked No. 5 last year with $858 million in
fuel contracts, a notch ahead of San Ramon, California-based
Chevron, with $620 million.  Local Purchases  “Almost all of the fuel used by the military services
overseas is purchased overseas,” the Defense Logistics Agency’s
McCaskill said. “As a result, many of the contract dollars are
awarded to foreign-based companies.”  It’s often less costly and easier for the government to buy
oil from local suppliers, said Pavel Molchanov, a Houston-based
analyst with Raymond James & Associates Inc.  “When I talk about those geographies where U.S. companies
have very limited access, I’m thinking of places like
Afghanistan,  Pakistan , the Horn of  Africa ,” Molchanov said in
an interview. Even in countries like Germany and  Japan , where
the Defense Department “has a very large presence,” it may be
cheaper to use a local supplier, he said.  The Gulf catastrophe may yet cost BP some of its business
with the Pentagon, from which the company received $7.06 billion
in fuel contracts in the last five years.  EPA Decision  The Environmental Protection Agency “has not yet
determined whether to take further debarment action against BP
as a result of the Deepwater Horizon  oil spill ,” Stacey Dey-
Foy, director of EPA’s Suspension and Debarment Division, said
in an e-mailed statement. Dey-Foy declined to say when the EPA
would make a decision or whether debarment was part of
continuing negotiations with the company.  BP has been cited with violations of the federal  Clean
Water Act , which allows the government to seek fines of $1,100 a
barrel of oil spilled automatically, a figure that can rise to
as much as $4,300 a barrel if a judge finds the company was
grossly negligent in allowing the pollution to occur.  The maximum penalty would be $4.51 billion, using the
$1,100-a-barrel fine and the government’s estimate of barrels
spilled. A finding of gross negligence would boost that figure
to $17.6 billion.  Violations of the Clean Water and Clean Air Acts typically
result in the barring of specific facilities where the problems
occurred, rather than punishing the company as a whole. The EPA
has indefinitely disqualified two BP facilities from doing
government work due to other violations.  The agency in 2009 barred the company’s refinery in  Texas 
City, Texas, after an explosion that killed 15 workers and
injured 170 others, according to EPA data. In 2008, the EPA
disqualified BP’s Prudhoe Bay Unit on the North Slope in Alaska
after a leak spilled between 200,000 and 270,000 gallons of
crude oil into a nearby lake and tundra area.  Valero Too  BP since 2000 has been hit with more than $2.6 billion in
fines and settlements for enforcement related to the
environment, labor, contract fraud and antitrust, according to
the Project on Government Oversight’s database of federal
contractor misconduct. The database includes both government and
civil actions.  Valero has paid more than $283 million in fines and
settlements since 2000 for enforcement related to the
environment and labor, according to the same database. That
includes a 2007 case in which the company voluntarily agreed to
pay $4.25 million in penalties and $232 million for pollution
controls to bring refineries purchased in 2005 into compliance
with the  Clean Air Act , according to an EPA press release.  Military and government awards are a small part of Valero’s
total revenue, said Bill Day, a company spokesman. He otherwise
declined to comment on the company’s contracts.  “If any company that had an environmental scandal was
ruled out as a fuel supplier for the military, the military
would very quickly run out of fuel,” said Raymond James’s
Molchanov. “That would pretty much rule out every oil company
on the planet -- foreign or domestic,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  