-- Braun Says Mishandled Drug Sample Led to His Baseball Ban Being Overturned
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-02-25T05:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/braun-says-mishandled-drug-sample-led-to-his-baseball-ban-being-overturned.html
Ryan Braun  said  Major League
Baseball ’s drug-testing process was “fatally flawed” in his
case and that he is considering legal action.  Braun, the reigning National League Most Valuable Player
whose 50-game suspension was overturned on appeal by a three-
member arbitration panel, said mistakes in handling his urine
sample -- not something he put in his body -- led to the failed
drug test.  Braun said during a televised news conference yesterday at
the  Milwaukee Brewers ’ spring-training facility in Phoenix that
he was confident the failed test didn’t result from his actions.
He declined to go into detail, citing the best interests of
baseball and possible legal action.  “If I had done this intentionally, or unintentionally, I
would be the first one to step up and say I did it,” Braun
said. “At the end of the day, the truth prevailed. I am a
victim of a process that completely broke down, and failed in
the way that it was applied to me.”  Braun, 28, is the first major league player to successfully
appeal a drug suspension. A performance-enhancing substance was
found in his system last year as he was leading the Brewers to
the National League Championship Series. He declared his
innocence and appealed under baseball’s drug rules.  Braun’s lawyers focused their appeal on whether the
player’s sample was delivered promptly to a testing laboratory,
he said. Collectors are instructed to deliver samples to a FedEx
shipping center on the day of the test to preserve anonymity and
ensure the urine isn’t contaminated or misplaced.  Playoff Testing  The drug test was given on Saturday, Oct. 1, during the
playoffs, and then delivered to a FedEx shipping center on the
afternoon of Oct. 3, Braun said. He added that there were a
number of FedEx centers open late on Saturday evening near both
the Brewers’  Miller Park  and the collectors’ house, and that he
had no idea where the sample was or how it was treated during
the 44-hour window before it was sent.  “There were a lot of things we learned about the
collector, the collection process, about the way the entire
thing worked that made us very concerned and very suspicious,”
he said.  In an e-mailed statement,  Rob Manfred , MLB’s executive vice
president for labor relations, said the collector acted in a
“professional and appropriate manner,” consistent with
instructions from an agency jointly retained by baseball and its
players association.  “The arbitrator found that those instructions were not
consistent with certain language in our program, even though the
instructions were identical to those used by many other drug
programs -- including the other professional sports and the
 World Anti-Doping Agency ,” Manfred said. “Neither Mr. Braun
nor the MLBPA contended in the grievance that his sample had
been tampered with or produced any evidence of tampering.”  Synthetic Testosterone  The drug found in Braun’s system wasn’t identified by MLB.
ESPN said it was synthetic testosterone, a muscle builder. Braun
said that the MLBPA told him that his testosterone results were
three times higher than any number in the history of drug
testing.  Gary Wadler, a senior member of WADA, said Braun’s test
results were suspicious because of two abnormalities -- the
testosterone was synthetic, produced outside the human body, and
the levels were so high. He added that it would be impossible,
without tampering, to turn natural testosterone into a synthetic
form as a result of a delay.  “It’s crying out for an explanation,” Wadler said on
ESPN’s “Outside the Lines.” “Yes, it should more efficiently
have been sent to the lab, that would not have changed the
results.”  No Weight Gain  Braun said his defense also showed that he had not gained
any weight, power, speed or arm strength typically associated
with steroid use. He also said he had no underlying medical
issues, and had passed 25 other drug tests.  Braun hit 33 home runs and drove in 111 runs  last season 
after signing a five-year, $105 million contract extension
through 2020. He led the Brewers with a .332 batting average
last season, trailing only the  New York Mets ’  Jose Reyes  among
NL hitters.  Manfred said that changes will be made to clarify the
delivery of samples once they are taken, a sentiment echoed by
union head  Michael Weiner  in an e-mailed statement.  “This case has focused the parties’ attention on an aspect
of our program that can be improved,” Weiner said. “After
discussions with the commissioner’s office, we are confident
that all collections going forward will follow the parties’
agreed-upon rules.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  