-- Buffett Reveals Warts Preparing Annual Letter
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-02-24T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/buffett-warts-revealed-as-billionaire-prepares-his-annual-letter.html
Warren Buffett  bought oil stocks
near the peak of an energy boom, declined to spend $35 million
on a growing television station and swapped a  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  stake for a shoe company he later said was worthless.  In each case, shareholders of Omaha, Nebraska-based
Berkshire were charged or deprived of at least $1 billion. And
in each case, Buffett apologized in writing.  “A friend once asked me: If you’re so rich, why aren’t you
smart?” Buffett, Berkshire’s chairman, said in a  letter 
accompanying the 1996 annual report. The billionaire, describing
a bet on USAir, told readers at the time, “You may conclude he
had a point.”  Buffett’s self-criticism is part of a leadership style that
has helped him build a company with 270,000 workers and draw
crowds of more than 20,000 to hear him speak. Buffett, 81, who’s
scheduled to release his annual shareholder letter tomorrow,
relies on his public persona as well as his record to set
standards for Berkshire staff and retain  investors  in good years
and bad.  “He doesn’t hesitate to point this stuff out, and it’s not
just for the shareholders,” said James Armstrong, president of
Berkshire investor Henry H. Armstrong Associates. “It’s also
for the employees and managers of Berkshire. It’s sending the
message: Admit your mistakes, don’t pretend they didn’t
happen.”  Coca-Cola, Geico  Buffett, a former hedge-fund manager, boosted Berkshire
with stock picks like  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and takeovers including
insurer Geico Corp. Berkshire shares soared about 38-fold in the
last 24 years and Buffett’s fortune surged to third-biggest in
the world. The company trades at about  1.2 times  book value,
indicating that investors believe the firm is worth more than
its net assets.  The Class A shares slipped 4.7 percent last year amid a
surge in insurance catastrophe costs and questions about
Berkshire’s succession planning. Berkshire’s profit declined 16
percent to $7.2 billion in the nine months ended Sept. 30, and
Buffett was criticized in the media for his handling of the
resignation of former manager  David Sokol .  Buffett claimed responsibility for losses when his bet on
oil producer ConocoPhillips contributed to more than $3 billion
of impairments in 2009. He blamed himself for decades of missed
profits because he refused to pay $35 million for a Dallas-Fort
Worth NBC station. The cost of his 1993 purchase of shoemaker
Dexter rose to  $3.5 billion , Buffett said in 2008, because he
paid the $433 million price in Berkshire stock.  ‘A Big Mistake’  Buffett was pressured into admitting an error last year
regarding his oversight of Sokol, who left in April and was
subsequently accused by Berkshire of violating the firm’s
insider-trading rules.  “I made a big mistake” by not pressing Sokol for details
about his Lubrizol Corp. stock trades before Berkshire bought
the engine-additives maker, Buffett said at the 2011
 shareholders’ meeting . That was a reversal from a statement a
month earlier that didn’t include an apology and said he would
answer no questions on the matter.  “The initial response was to circle the wagons,” said
 Meyer Shields , an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co. “To his
credit, he does acknowledge some of these issues. But I don’t
think we get the entire picture,” Shields said of Buffett’s
self-criticism.  Buffett frames the investor discussion with his annual
letter, which tends to be about 20 to 25 pages long and has been
read by shareholders around the world. Berkshire’s annual 10-K
filing to the Securities and Exchange Commission, typically
released a few days after the letter, gives investors about 100
pages of information.  An Expensive Fiasco  Buffett said two years ago that Geico’s foray into credit-
card lending was “a very expensive business fiasco” and his
own fault. In 1999, he told shareholders his stock transactions
were so bad investors would have been better off if he’d gone to
the movies during market hours. Even with a winning bet --
Berkshire’s investment in Coca-Cola in 1988 and 1989 -- Buffett
made light of himself for not getting there sooner.  “I believe I had my first Coca-Cola in either 1935 or
1936,” Buffett said in 1990. “I carefully avoided buying even
a single share, instead allocating major portions of my net
worth to street railway companies, windmill manufacturers,
anthracite producers, textile businesses, trading-stamp issuers,
and the like.”  Coca-Cola more than doubled in the four years through the
end of 1987, and has risen more than 14-fold since. Buffett
invested about $1 billion in the world’s biggest soft-drink
maker by the end of 1989 and made purchases of almost $300
million in 1994. Berkshire, Coca-Cola’s largest shareholder, has
a stake now valued at almost $14 billion.  Buffett’s Record  “Agonizing over errors is a mistake,” Buffett said in
2001. “But acknowledging and analyzing them can be useful,
though that practice is rare in corporate boardrooms.”  The assessment of Buffett’s performance may change over
time. In 1998, the year he said he would have been better off at
the movies because he sold stocks including  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) ,
Buffett was in the process of divesting a holding in  Freddie Mac 
that had climbed to more than $3 billion. Those sales were
substantially completed in 2000, eight years before the
mortgage-finance company entered government conservatorship.
McDonald’s has more than doubled since 1998.  “It’s a humbling business,” said  David Rolfe , chief 
investment officer of Berkshire shareholder Wedgewood Partners 
Inc. Buffett’s self-criticism “has served him well over the 
years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 