-- California Gasoline Jumps on Unplanned Work at Valero, BP Plants
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-02-24T23:24:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/california-gasoline-jumps-on-unplanned-work-at-valero-bp-plants.html
California-blend gasoline in San
Francisco and  Los Angeles  strengthened against futures after
 Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  and  BP Plc (BP/)  reported unplanned work at
 California  oil refineries.  London-based BP is performing short-term work on equipment
related to the hydrocracker at the 266,000-barrel-a-day  Carson (BPCRCRUD) 
plant, California’s second-largest refinery, a person familiar
with the plant’s operations said today. San Antonio-based Valero
reported a malfunction in the hydrocracker at the 170,000-
barrel-a-day  Benicia (VABECRUD)  refinery in Northern California.  Carbob in  San Francisco (MOGSD85P)  jumped 4.5 cents to a premium of
38.5 cents a gallon versus gasoline futures traded on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the highest premium for the fuel in San
Francisco since Oct. 11.  The hydrocracker at Benicia is “back at planned rates, and
there was no material impact to production,”  Bill Day , a Valero
spokesman at the company’s headquarters in  San Antonio , said in
an e-mail today. The unit had a “brief upset” late yesterday,
he said.  San Antonio-based Tesoro Corp. is also performing
maintenance on units at the 170,000-barrel-a-day  Martinez (TEMTCRUD) 
refinery near San Francisco, Tina Barbee, a spokeswoman at the
company’s headquarters, said in an e-mail today. The plant
started a “major” distillate process unit yesterday, according
to a notice filed with Contra Costa County regulators.  Southern California  Carbob in  Los Angeles (MOGLDB85)  strengthened 2 cents to a premium of
41.5 cents a gallon against gasoline futures, near the four-
month high of 42.5 cents reached Feb. 21.  Valero is starting units at the  Wilmington (VAWICRUD)  refinery in
 Southern California  after a maintenance turnaround in addition
to the Carson work by BP.  In  Washington , BP’s 234,000-barrel-a-day  Cherry Point (BPFECRUD) 
refinery has been shut since a fire struck the crude-processing
unit Feb. 17. Tesoro shut the catalytic cracker at its  Anacortes (TEANCRUD) 
plant after an overhead line malfunctioned, a person familiar
with the plant’s operations said today.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland, Oregon (MOGHD87P) , a
benchmark for fuel prices in the U.S. Northwest, strengthened 3
cents to 23 cents above gasoline futures. The fuel’s premium in
 Oregon  has risen 16.5 cents since the Cherry Point fire.  Motor gasoline inventories  on the U.S. West Coast, known as
the Padd 5 region, fell by the most in more than four months to
30.8 million barrels last week, the Energy Department said in a
report. California inventories dropped 8.9 percent to 6.56
million barrels last week, the lowest level since Dec. 30, the
state Energy Commission said.  United Steelworkers members at four of Tesoro’s refineries,
Martinez, Anacortes,  Kapolei (TEKACRUD)  in  Hawaii  and  Salt Lake City (TESLCRUD)  in
 Utah , have now rejected the company’s last offers for new
contracts, according to people familiar with the negotiations.  “ Salt Lake City  voted down our offer,” Barbee said in an
e-mail today. “Negotiations continue at all USW-represented
Tesoro refineries, and we look forward to successful
ratification of all agreements.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  