-- Californians Prefer Millionaires’ Levy to Brown’s Tax Proposal, Poll Says
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-02-24T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/californians-prefer-extra-burden-on-millionaires-to-brown-s-tax-proposal.html
Californians support higher taxes
for millionaires over Governor  Jerry Brown ’s proposal to raise
sales levies and rates for residents earning $250,000 or more,
according to a new poll.  Sixty-three percent of registered voters back tax increases
on millionaires proposed in a ballot measure by the  California 
Federation of Teachers, according to a Field Research Corp. poll
released today. The union would boost levies on those earning $1
million to 13.3 percent from 10.3 percent now. Those with
incomes of $2 million or more would pay 15.3 percent.  Fifty-eight percent support Brown’s plan to raise retail-
sales taxes to 7.75 percent from 7.25 percent and increase wage
levies on individuals making $250,000 or more, currently at 9.3
percent. Those earning $1 million and up would pay 12.3 percent.
More opposed this plan, at 36 percent, than the union
initiative, at 31 percent.  Backers are trying to get the initiatives on the November
ballot. They offer alternative ways to help close California’s
$9.2 billion  budget deficit  while maintaining funding for public
schools. The telephone survey of 1,003 registered voters Feb.
2-18 had a margin of error of plus or minus 3.1 percentage
points.  An alternative proposed by Molly Munger, a wealthy lawyer,
was favored by 45 percent of voters, based on a smaller sample.
Her plan would raise taxes on everyone making $17,346 or more,
the tier where the current levy rises to 2 percent. She would
impose bigger increases on the highest incomes. More people
opposed this plan, at 48 percent, than supported it. The poll of
344 people had a margin of error of plus or minus 5.5 percentage
points.  Business, Labor  Brown, a Democrat, has won support from both business and
labor groups for his plan, said Steve Glazer, the governor’s
political adviser. The union-backed millionaire tax increase is
more likely to encounter well-funded opposition, Glazer said by
telephone.  Polls have consistently shown higher support for raising
levies on millionaires, said Joshua Pechthalt, the teachers’
union president.  “The Field Poll shows the millionaires tax has the best
chance of passage,” he said in a statement.  If multiple tax measures appear on the same ballot, support
for each is likely to diminish, Glazer said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net . 