-- Canada’s Dollar Falls Versus Most Major Counterparts as Risk Demand Wanes
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-02-24T22:16:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/canada-dollar-holds-above-parity-as-volatility-at-four-year-low.html
Canada ’s dollar dropped against the
majority of its most-traded counterparts as appetite for risk
waned and U.S. stocks pared gains.  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, tumbled versus the euro
even as crude oil climbed to almost $110 a barrel. Crude is
Canada’s biggest export. The loonie traded at about parity with
the U.S. dollar and fell for the week.  “It could be argued that the Canadian dollar is not
managing to hold on to gains in the oil price,” said Jeremy Stretch, head of currency strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce in  London .  The Canadian currency weakened 0.2 percent to 99.93 cents
per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto and touched C$1.0004, below
parity. It fell 0.3 percent on the week. The loonie has traded
stronger than a one-for-one basis with the greenback every day
this month. One Canadian dollar purchases $1.0007.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index ended the day up less than
0.2 percent after increasing as much as 0.4 percent earlier. The
S&P/TSX Composite Index declined 0.1 percent after advancing 0.3
percent earlier.  Government bonds  rose for a third day, pushing the yield on
benchmark  10-year debt  down three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 2.02 percent. Canadian  government
securities  have lost 0.6 percent this year, according to a Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index.  Lowest Since 2007  Implied volatility for one-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus the greenback touched 6.90 percent, the lowest
level on an intraday basis since June 2007. It closed at as high
as 15.6 percent in September. Implied volatility, which traders
quote and use to set option prices, signals the expected pace of
swings in the underlying currency. It averaged about 10 percent
over the past decade.  The Canadian dollar “just does not want to move anywhere
far from par,” said  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at
Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit in Toronto.  “Ordinarily, lower volatility would be a Canadian-dollar
positive, but at historically low levels of implied volatility
-- right around the pre-Lehman lows here -- that is perhaps a
cautionary tale for risk takers as well,” Osborne said,
referring to the September 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. that sparked the financial crisis.  Euro Gains  The Canadian currency dropped for a seventh day versus the
euro, the longest losing streak since April, on speculation
officials are succeeding in containing the European sovereign-
debt crisis. The loonie depreciated as much as 1 percent to
C$1.3466 versus the common currency, the weakest since December.  The  currency pair  “looks set to test back toward C$1.35 as
investors continue to close out euro shorts, perhaps in the
misguided assumption that  Europe  is now saved by recent
events,” said  Jeremy Stretch , head of currency strategy at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in London. A short position
is a bet that a currency will depreciate.  Crude oil for April delivery rose 0.9 percent to $109.62 a
barrel in New York and touched $109.95, the strongest level
since May. Canada is the largest supplier of crude to the U.S.,
the world’s biggest economy.  Central banks in the U.S., Europe and  Japan  will probably
add further extraordinary stimulus by expanding the size of
their balance sheets, which already equal 25 percent of their
gross domestic product, Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said
in the text of a speech he’s giving today in  New York .  Carney will keep his  key interest rate  at 1 percent through
this year to aid the recovery, and the currency will trade at
close to parity with the U.S. dollar, according to Bloomberg
surveys of economists. Last month, the central bank predicted
economic growth of 2 percent this year, with risks from global
demand and household spending.  The Canadian dollar rose 2.1 percent over the past six
months against nine developed-nation counterparts monitored by
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Currency Indexes. The U.S. dollar
gained 3.9 percent, and the euro dropped 3.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  