-- Caracas Gossip Columnist Attracts Investors Tracking Chavez Health Reports
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s
-- 2012-02-24T20:48:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/caracas-gossip-columnist-lures-investors-tracking-chavez-health.html
Investors left in the dark by  Hugo Chavez ’s battle with cancer are turning to a newspaper gossip
columnist for clues about the Venezuelan president’s health and
how it will affect his re-election chances.  Nelson Bocaranda, who writes a  twice-weekly column  in
Caracas-based El Universal, revealed last June that Chavez had
cancer five days before the self-declared socialist announced
doctors in Cuba had removed a tumor from his pelvic area.
Bocaranda shocked the nation again on Feb. 20, posting on
 Twitter  that Chavez was secretly in Cuba and needed to undergo
further surgery. The unsourced speculation, at first denied by
Chavez’s allies, was confirmed by the president a day later.  Chavez, who said in October he was cancer-free following
two operations and four rounds of chemotherapy, has refused to
say what kind of cancer he has or allow access to his medical
records. With his health treated as a state secret, Bocaranda
has become essential reading, said  Boris Segura , a strategist at
Nomura Securities International.  “He’s very well connected, very well informed and you’ve
got to read him,” Segura said in a phone interview from New
York. “He managed to get sources in Cuba to tell him pretty
much what Chavez confirmed afterwards.”  Bond Rally  In recent weeks, investors have seized on speculation that
Chavez’s health is worse than he is letting on to buy the
nation’s bonds, betting that the 57-year-old former paratrooper
may be too weak to campaign ahead of October’s presidential
election. Opposition candidate Henrique Capriles Radonski has
vowed to eliminate policies implemented during Chavez’s 13-year
rule that he blames for the world’s fastest inflation, slow
growth and shortages of staple foods like milk and flour.  Venezuela ’s economy grew 4.2 percent in 2011 following two
years of recession while consumer prices climbed 26 percent in
January from a year earlier, the fastest pace among 83 economies
tracked by Bloomberg.  Chavez departed for Cuba today, waving to supporters
through the sun roof of his car as his motorcade made its way
down to the airport.  “Cancer or no cancer, rain, thunder or lightning, nothing
and no one will be able to stop the new patriotic victory in
October 2012,” Chavez said outside the presidential palace
before departing. “We are obliged to live and obliged to
triumph in order to guarantee Venezuela’s peace.”  Very Accurate  Bocaranda’s reports have been helping fuel the bond rally,
said Francisco Ghersi, co-managing director of Caracas-based
Knossos Asset Management. The yield on Venezuela’s benchmark
bonds due 2027 fell 32 basis points to 11.55 percent in less
than four hours of trading on the morning of Feb. 21, after
Bocaranda said that Chavez was in Cuba with his family.  “This confirmed the fact that Bocaranda’s sources are very
accurate,” said Ghersi, who helps manage $8 million, including
Venezuelan bonds.  Bocaranda, 66, began his career as a radio news announcer
and later worked as a correspondent in  New York  for Cadena
Venezolana de Television, a nationwide broadcaster. He also
served as the Foreign Ministry’s press officer to the  United
Nations .  While abroad he was able to cultivate sources among foreign
governments, including the U.S. and  Brazil , which he said have
proved invaluable in his reporting on Chavez’s health. He also
said he has reliable sources in Cuba, though he won’t provide
any more details.  “You have to obtain information from abroad because you
can’t get it here,” Bocaranda said in an interview from his
office at Radio Exitos in Caracas, where he hosts a program for
commuting motorists.  Bond Trader  Russell Dallen , head bond trader at Caracas  Capital Markets 
in Miami, said he’s been following Bocaranda’s columns for more
than 12 years.  “I don’t think it’s his primary motivation, but his
insights have helped Venezuelan bonds gain 30 percent since he
first revealed Chavez’s illness nine months ago,” Dallen said
in an e-mailed response to questions.  With Chavez insisting his illness be treated as a private
matter, unsubstantiated rumors about his condition have become a
mainstay of Venezuelan blogs. They tend to fizzle out as soon as
the president appears on TV tossing around a baseball or, as he
did on Jan. 13, delivering a nine-hour speech.  Chavez’s revelation that he needs further surgery confirms
reports in the media that his health is worse than he has
projected, Barclays Capital analysts Alejandro Arreaza,
Alejandro Grisanti and Donato Guarino wrote in a note to
clients.  ‘Prove It’  “During the past few months President Chavez has tried to
project an image that he has recovered, showing some apparent
physical improvement and trying to prove it with greater
exposure in the media,” they wrote in the report. “His health
condition is weaker than he admitted and the probability he will
not run as candidate is bigger than the market is expecting.”  Bocaranda first garnered a following among Venezuelans when
he wrote in his column June 25 that Chavez had cancer after
biopsies sent to a hospital in  Boston  were found to be
malignant. It took another five days for the president to
announce that he had undergone two operations to remove a tumor.  To date, the columnist has amassed more than 500,000
followers on Twitter, 40 percent more than any other journalist
in the country, according to Twitteros en Venezuela, a website
that ranks users of the micro-blogging site.  ‘Dirty War’  His latest scoop came at 2:10 a.m. on Feb. 20, when he
posted on Twitter from Miami that Chavez was told he needed
another surgery during a video-conference with nine doctors a
week earlier. Chavez initially resisted, saying he preferred to
campaign for re-election, though he eventually traveled to Cuba
for tests with his mother, brother and children before flying
back to his home state of Barinas, Bocaranda wrote.  Chavez’s allies quickly denied the report, and Bocaranda
never said how he obtained the information. Information Minister
Andres Izarra wrote on Twitter that the reports were part of a
“dirty war” against the government while National Assembly
President Diosdado Cabello said that “when the Comandante
appears working, Bocaranda and his team will suffer an intense
depression.”  Less than 24 hours later, Chavez confirmed on state TV that
he needed another surgery to remove what he described as a
probably malignant “lesion” detected during the previously
unannounced trip to Cuba.  Carnival Weekend  The president delayed telling Venezuelans about his medical
setback so as not to ruin their Carnival weekend, Izarra said on
state television Feb. 21. When contacted by Bloomberg News, the
Information Ministry declined to comment further, saying Chavez
is the only person authorized to talk about his health.  The opposition has called for more transparency from the
government, saying the country has a right to be informed about
the head of state’s health. Chavez, before heading to Cuba for
treatment, called on Venezuelans to be on the lookout for the
spreading of rumors and half-truths during his absence.  “If we had to respond to every rumor we’d have to spend
all day on it,” Chavez said in a nationwide broadcast
yesterday. “They accuse us of hiding things but it’s they who
generate doubts and panic.”  While Bocaranda doesn’t hide his sympathies for Venezuela’s
opposition, he said his political views don’t interfere with his
fact-based reporting on the president’s health, which has also
been helped by his wife’s own battle with  breast cancer . The
government has retaliated by auditing his tax records and
imposing fines, he said.  Increasing Contacts  Since first breaking news about Chavez’s cancer, he’s been
able to increase his contacts among government officials
dismayed by the president’s handling of his illness.  “Many government officials, including high government
officials, felt humiliated that they didn’t know what I knew,”
Bocaranda said.  With the opposition in a statistical tie with Chavez in
polls ahead of the October vote, he expects even more sources
fearing for their jobs to come forward, he said.  “Now that they see their situation as more complicated
they are building bridges,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  