-- Carney Speech at U.S. Monetary Policy Forum in New York (Text)
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-02-24T14:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/carney-speech-at-u-s-monetary-policy-forum-in-new-york-text-.html
Following is the text of Bank of
Canada Governor  Mark Carney ’s speech in  New York  at the U.S.
 Monetary Policy  Forum. The document was released today in Ottawa.  It is a pleasure to be at the U.S. Monetary Policy Forum,
which brings together academics, practitioners and market
participants to discuss current issues in monetary policy.  There are a few.  Indeed the crisis has shaken the foundations of monetary
economics, making this a great time to be an academic but a more
challenging one to be a practitioner. The extent to which market
participants enjoy the situation appears to fluctuate on a daily
basis.  In the crisis economies, policy-makers are battling the
possibility of deflation. They are handicapped by transmission
mechanisms that are at best impaired and at worst broken. With
households and banks in these economies aggressively trying to
delever, output gaps remain large and hysteresis threatens.  As a consequence, the horizons of monetary policy have been
expanded dramatically. The  Federal Reserve  has been appropriately
and effectively radical by implementing a range of powerful
unconventional tools. Market expectations that G-3 target rates
will stay at very low levels for a very long time appear firmly
entrenched. G-3 central bank balance sheets have swelled to about
25 per cent of GDP, on average, and can reasonably be expected to
expand further.  In the non-crisis economies, the challenging external
environment has also required bold policy actions. Financial and
confidence spillovers from the major financial centres are
creating material headwinds. Weak export demand is forcing a
heavy reliance on domestic demand to maintain momentum. Despite
well-functioning domestic financial systems, policy rates remain
near historic lows and real rates are generally negative.  For these economies, the possibility of a low-for-long world
may contribute to excessive credit creation and risk taking.
Moreover, an inflexible international monetary system is
promoting large carry trades, with a bias to exchange rate
overshooting, high correlations and significant volatility.  Away from the cognoscenti, understandable frustrations have
risen. Citizens want their confidence in the system restored so
that they can get on with their lives.  It is not surprising that, in the wake of these challenges,
monetary policy frameworks are under intense scrutiny.  Is there a simple answer in such a messy world? It might not
surprise you that, as the governor of a central bank that helped
pioneer inflation targeting, I will argue today that flexible
inflation targeting remains the best response.  This is not a lazy reflex. Over the past five years, the
Bank of  Canada  has intensively examined alternatives to our
current framework, including a lower inflation target and moving
to a price-level target. We worked with the Government of Canada
in a calm, reasoned review of these options and in full
consideration of the lessons of the financial crisis. In the end,
we reaffirmed our first principles.  We did so because, in a complex and continuously evolving
world that no one can predict with certainty, policy-makers need
a robust framework; one that remains appropriate no matter the
circumstances. Inflation targeting is disciplined but flexible.
It allows central banks to deliver what is expected while dealing
with the unexpected.  There are many who would take issue with this conclusion.
Ignoring the reality that only one inflation-targeting central
bank--the Bank of England--was at the epicentre of the crisis,
some claim the crisis marks the death knell of arguably the most
successful monetary policy framework ever.  These opponents of inflation targeting make some variant of
four main arguments.  First, price stability does not guarantee financial
stability. We at the  Bank of Canada  agree. We have consistently
pointed out that low, stable and predictable inflation can feed
complacency among financial market participants, as risk taking
adapts to the perceived new equilibrium. Indeed, risk appears to
be at its greatest when measures of it are at their lowest. The
tendency to overreach is particularly marked if there is a
perceived certainty about the stability of low interest rates.  In short, complacency can lead to extremes and, ultimately,
crisis. But it does not follow that central banks practising
flexible inflation targeting are forced to be similarly
complacent when faced with the buildup of financial imbalances, a
point to which I will return later.  Second, the stronger critique of the Austrian school is that
inflation targeting can actively feed the creation of financial
vulnerabilities, especially in the presence of positive supply
shocks. For example, in an environment of increased potential
growth resulting from higher productivity, inflation-targeting
central banks may be compelled to respond to the consequent
“good” deflation by lowering  interest rates . From the Austrian
perspective, this misguided response stokes excess money and
credit creation, resulting in an intertemporal misallocation of
capital and the accumulation of imbalances over time. These
imbalances eventually implode, leading to crisis and “bad”
deflation.  As I will argue later, this critique places monetary policy
in a vacuum divorced from broader macroprudential management.
Moreover, it offers only a counsel of despair for current
problems: liquidate, liquidate, liquidate.  Third, the opposite concern (voiced by Joe Stiglitz among
others) is that inflation-targeting central banks will prove to
be “inflation nutters” in the post-crisis environment. We are
portrayed as obsessed with a narrow inflation target while the
economy burns. But in the post-crisis environment of deficient
demand, preventing the economy from burning is entirely
consistent with preventing inflation from falling below the
target. As should be obvious from the actions of inflation
targeters ranging from the  Bank of England  to the Bank of Canada
and now the Fed, the framework has encouraged, rather than
discouraged, aggressive easing.  Finally, some have argued that an inflation target
consistent with  price stability  is too low for a post-crisis
world.  While the recovery is proceeding in crisis economies, it
remains weak, particularly relative to the depth of the
recession. This is consistent with the historical experience
following financial crises. Indeed, it is only with justified
comparisons to the Great Depression that the success of the U.S.
policy response is apparent.  Although the details differ by country and region, banks,
governments and households across the crisis economies are trying
to deleverage. One response to smooth this process could be to
retain the inflation-targeting framework but raise the level of
the target, as Rogoff and others have argued.  However, this is not the kind of flexibility we have in mind
when we speak of “flexible IT.” Moving opportunistically to a
higher inflation target would risk unmooring inflation
expectations and destroying the hard-won gains that have come
from the entrenchment of price stability. A higher inflation-risk
premium might result, prompting an increase in real rates that
would exacerbate unfavourable debt dynamics.  The most palatable strategy to reduce debt is to increase
growth. In today’s reality, the hurdles are significant. For
example, in  Europe , sustained and necessary structural reforms
may, for a time, actually depress nominal growth. The repair of
U.S. household balance sheets has yet to fully run its course.
 Japan ’s adjustment remains a work in progress. As a consequence,
the advanced economies could face a prolonged period of deficient
demand and weak nominal growth.  The central challenge for monetary policy-makers in this
environment is to prevent that from happening. The clock is
ticking: the longer that crisis economies and their jobs markets
remain moribund, the greater the risk of failure.  The broad deleveraging headwinds in crisis economies call
for accommodative monetary policy. This is why, four years after
the onset of the crisis, policy rates in these economies are
still at or close to their zero lower bound (ZLB) and
unconventional policy actions are still expanding. To the extent
that more monetary stimulus is needed, some have suggested that
nominal-GDP (NGDP) targeting could be a powerful approach to
facilitate the deleveraging process.  Under this option, the central bank would seek to make up
for any undershoot in the trend in the value of nominal output.
The actual undershoots in crisis economies have been significant,
reaching about 10 per cent in the  United States  and the United
Kingdom--or nearly two trillion dollars combined. Committing to
restore the level of nominal GDP to its pre-crisis trend could
lend the powerful boost to expectations needed to reduce real
debt burdens and, more generally, provide added stimulus to the
economy through lower real interest rates.  As Woodfordian logic would have it, a key appeal of NGDP-
level targeting is that by compensating for past deviations from
desired levels--i.e., by introducing more dependence on history--
it would better harness the power of expectations to stabilize
the economy.  In normal times, these greater stabilization benefits are
not likely to be particularly important. As part of the work
leading to the renewal of our inflation control agreement, the
Bank of Canada analysed the benefits of price-level targeting
(PLT) which, like nominal GDP targeting, is a way to introduce
history dependence. Our research shows that, apart from lower
bound episodes, the gains from better exploiting the expectations
channel are likely to be modest.  Based on simulations using the Bank’s main projection model,
the benefits of this greater stabilization under PLT are
comparable to a permanent quarter-point reduction in the standard
deviation of CPI inflation, a significantly smaller improvement
than that realized upon the introduction of inflation targeting
in Canada in the 1990s. Much of this benefit arises following
shocks that create an explicit trade-off between output and
inflation stabilization, such as supply shocks, since credible
and well-understood PLT improves this trade-off.  To reap even these modest gains, expectations would have to
adjust the way theory says they should. That requires the change
in policy regime to be both credible and well understood. The
public would need to be fully conversant with the implications of
the regime and trust policy-makers to live up to their
commitment. These conditions may not be met. In the worst case,
if nominal GDP targeting is not fully understood or credible, it
can, in fact, be destabilizing.  Our research shows that the stabilization benefits of PLT
appear to diminish quickly as the fraction of the population that
behaves in a manner consistent with PLT falls, and are eliminated
when this fraction reaches 50 per cent. We have also investigated
more directly--in a laboratory-type setting--how people would
adapt to a PLT regime. Our results suggest that while people do
change their behaviour under PLT, the changes reflect an
imperfect understanding of the implications of the regime.  More fundamentally, relative to PLT and IT, nominal GDP-
level targeting imposes some additional restrictions that might
impede the ability of the central bank to achieve its underlying
goal of maximizing welfare. NGDP-level targeting treats changes
in overall prices and real activity as a package. As potential
growth changes over time, either the nominal target will have to
change or else it will force an arbitrary rebalancing between
inflation and real activity objectives.  In addition, under NGDP-level targeting, the central bank
would seek to stabilize the  GDP deflator  in order to achieve
price stability. But the GDP deflator measures the price level of
domestically produced goods and services, which may not match up
well with the cost of living that the CPI measures and that
matters most for welfare, particularly in small, open economies
where imports make up a substantial share of the consumption
basket.  All of that said, when stuck at the zero lower bound, there
could be a more favourable case for NGDP targeting in providing
additional stimulus and better facilitating the deleveraging
process in the aftermath of a financial crisis. The exceptional
nature of the situation, and the magnitude of the gaps involved,
might make such a policy more credible and easier to understand.
Depending on the depth and duration of the ZLB episode, our
calculations suggest that the adoption of a (temporary) price-
level target, if well understood and credible, could eliminate
more than half of the losses associated with the impossibility of
providing additional monetary stimulus through a lower policy
rate.  NGDP-level targeting may thus merit consideration as a
temporary unconventional monetary policy tool. But NGDP targeting
does not, in our view, amount to a complete policy framework.
What is needed is a robust framework that remains appropriate and
well understood under any circumstances.  Flexible IT is such a framework for all seasons.  The flexible IT framework in place in Canada since 1991
(similar to the one recently adopted by the Fed) focuses on a
medium-term inflation goal. This is a means to an end, the end
being economic well-being. The central bank focuses on this goal
because it is both immutable and achievable. The way in which we
achieve the goal can be adjusted, depending on the circumstances.
This flexibility is important to be able to stabilize other
aspects of the economy that also matter, but for which the
desirable level can change over time or depending on the
circumstances.  Thus, under flexible IT, the central bank seeks to return
inflation to its medium-term target while mitigating volatility
in other dimensions of the economy that matter for welfare, such
as employment and financial stability. For most shocks, these
goals are complementary. However, for shocks that pose a trade-
off between these different objectives, or that tilt the balance
of risks in one direction, the central bank can vary the horizon
over which inflation is returned to target.  The exercise of this flexibility cannot be arbitrary, and it
requires a clear and transparent communications approach, which
is important to both the accountability and effectiveness of
monetary policy. This is why the Bank regularly reports its
perspective on the forces at work on the economy and their
implications for the path of inflation, including the horizon
over which inflation is expected to return to target.  When credible, flexible IT provides a disciplined framework
that can best adapt to changing and complex circumstances in
order to best stabilize the economy. That makes the IT framework
robust, as is demonstrated by its ability to deal with the very
different challenges faced by both crisis and non-crisis
economies.  In the crisis economies, the challenge for central
banks is to sustain aggregate demand in a period of important
real adjustments.  Flexible IT is well suited to this purpose. The commitment
to the inflation target ensures price stability by anchoring
inflation expectations over the medium term. At the same time, it
provides a clear framework to carry out unconventional monetary
policy to provide additional stimulus, as required, in the
shorter term.  While Canada was not, and is not, a “crisis” economy, our
experience through the crisis is illustrative. The clarity and
credibility of Canada’s inflation-targeting regime was a critical
anchor through those turbulent times, giving the Bank an
unwavering goal to guide its rapid and determined easing, and
providing financial markets and the public with a clear means of
understanding the rationale behind them.  Within this framework, our first (and only) venture into
unconventional monetary policy was, in April 2009, to
conditionally commit to maintaining rates at their zero lower
bound through mid-2010. Being able to make this commitment
expressly conditional on the outlook for inflation, and thus
anchored in a well-understood goal, enhanced its effectiveness in
providing the needed stimulus, as well as allowing us to adjust
the guidance smoothly as conditions warranted.  As the newest member of the flexible IT club, the Fed is now
also able to use the anchor of an explicit inflation target to
boost the aggressiveness of its communications strategy. We
expect that the Fed’s elaboration of its longer-term policy goals
will enhance the stimulative effect of its announcement that the
federal funds rate is likely to remain at exceptionally low
levels at least through late 2014.  Extraordinary forward policy guidance within a flexible IT
framework helped the Bank of Canada provide additional stimulus
when it was needed and should help the Fed do the same. The Fed’s
experience with a published interest rate path in conventional
times, when they return, is something we will watch with
interest.  The robustness of flexible IT benefits non-crisis economies
as well. In a global economy, ties of trade, finance and
confidence bind both crisis and non-crisis economies together.
With the global economy underperforming and the recovery still
fragile, shocks can be felt far from their origins.  With flexible IT, non-crisis economies can more easily
absorb the shocks from global headwinds by continuing to keep
inflation low, stable and predictable so that households and
firms can invest and plan for the future with confidence.  Let me illustrate with a few practical examples from our
experience in Canada.  As the recovery unfolded, the Bank maintained an easier
stance of policy than would have been implied by a simple Taylor-
type rule (where the overnight rate mechanically responds to
deviations of current inflation from the target). This allowed us
to bring inflation back to target and output back to potential
more quickly by leaning more heavily into the sustained headwinds
of weaker foreign demand. IT also allowed us to guide market
participants that, in an environment of material external
headwinds, closing the output gap did not necessarily correspond
with returning the policy rate to neutral.  This illustrates that, in a complex and continuously
evolving world, it is illusory to think that the mechanistic
implementation of a simple rule would prove desirable for all the
circumstances that monetary policy must face.  Not only does a flexible IT framework enable the central
bank to deal with shocks, it also provides the flexibility to
address a buildup of financial vulnerabilities that a low-for-
long environment can fuel.  This is important as experience suggests that prolonged
periods of unusually low rates can cloud assessments of financial
risks, induce a search for yield, and delay balance-sheet
adjustments by banks, firms and households.  Concerning levels of  household debt  can build in non-crisis
economies, as they have in Canada, where a well-functioning
financial system has combined with an environment of low interest
rates since 2008.  The first line of defence against a buildup of such
financial imbalances is micro- and macroprudential regulation and
supervision. Canadian banks are currently reinforcing their
already strong capital positions in order to meet the Basel III
requirements for 2019 by the start of next year. The Government
of Canada has already made three timely and prudent adjustments
to the terms of mortgage finance. Canadian authorities are co-
operating closely and will continue to monitor the financial
situation of the household sector.  These defences will go a long way to mitigate the risk of
financial excesses, but in some cases, monetary policy may still
have to take financial stability considerations into account.
This is most obviously the case when financial imbalances affect
the near-term outlook for output and inflation.  In exceptional circumstances, when financial imbalances pose
an economy-wide threat or where imbalances themselves are being
encouraged by a low interest rate environment, monetary policy
itself may be needed to support financial stability. Monetary
policy has a broad influence on financial markets and on the
leverage of financial institutions that cannot easily be avoided.
This bluntness makes monetary policy an inappropriate tool to
deal with sector-specific imbalances but a valuable one to
address imbalances that may have economy-wide implications.  A virtue of flexible IT is that if the regime is credible,
the inflation target can anchor inflation expectations while
leaving room for policy-makers to occasionally use monetary
policy for financial stability purposes.  The Bank of Canada’s policy interest rate has remained at
its current level of 1 per cent for more than a year--a degree of
stimulus appropriate to an environment where the Canadian economy
faces considerable external headwinds. In its latest Monetary
Policy Report, the Bank projected that this accommodative policy
stance--with a gradual reduction in monetary stimulus over the
projection horizon--would be consistent with returning inflation
to the 2 per cent total CPI inflation target in seven quarters,
in line with the typical monetary policy horizon.  As I have discussed, however, a key feature of Canada’s
inflation-targeting framework is the scope to adjust this horizon
if circumstances warrant. Equipped with this flexibility, the
Bank will continue to monitor carefully economic and financial
developments in the Canadian and global economies, together with
the evolution of risks, and set monetary policy consistent with
achieving the 2 per cent inflation target over the medium term.  The post-crisis world presents economists, academics and
policy-makers with many challenges. Chief among them is the
conduct of monetary policy during a period of profound adjustment
during which deflation, inflation and financial stability risks
could all threaten.  The Bank of Canada believes flexible inflation targeting
provides a robust framework for all seasons, and we will use its
full potential to deliver price stability and to enhance the
economic welfare of Canadians.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  