-- Chevron Starts China Shale Gas Exploration, Builds Sichuan Plant
-- B y   G u o   A i b i n g
-- 2012-02-24T04:03:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/chevron-starts-china-shale-gas-exploration-builds-sichuan-plant.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX)  said it began
exploring for shale gas in  China , holder of the world’s biggest
reserves of the fuel, and expects to start a natural gas
processing plant in the country next year.  “The company signed a joint study agreement to explore for
gas from shale resources in the Qiannan Basin in April and
commenced seismic operations in July,” the second-largest U.S.
energy company said in a  filing  to the Securities and Exchange
Commission yesterday, without identifying its partner in the
project in southwestern Guizhou province.  Chevron follows rival Royal Dutch Shell Plc in exploring
for shale gas in  China , which has yet to commercially produce
the fuel. The San Ramon, California-based company has allocated
a 2012 budget that includes $28.5 billion for exploration and
production in locations including  Brazil ,  Africa  and the  Gulf of
Mexico  as U.S. oil refining margins shrink.  The company expects to start building the second phase of a
gas processing plant at Chuandongbei field, China’s largest
onshore energy exploration venture with a foreign producer, in
2012, according to its filing. Chevron said the first phase of
the plant in southwestern Sichuan province may start next year.  In Africa, the company said the Phase 3B project at the
Escravos Gas Plant in Nigeria may be completed in 2016. Chevron
had expected production at the project, designed to process 120
million cubic feet of gas a day from eight offshore fields, to
start next year.  In Argentina, Chevron said it expects to drill two
exploratory wells this year in the Vaca Muerta formation,
targeting shale gas and tight-oil deposits.  U.S., Australian Refineries  Chevron signed an agreement this month to sell its 80,000
barrel-a-day refinery at Perth Amboy,  New Jersey , to a company
that it didn’t identify, according to the filing. The deal is
expected to close in the second quarter. Chevron shut the plant
in 2008 and has been using the facility as an import terminal.  The sale follows other companies idling or selling their
plants in the northeast U.S. as rising crude prices have limited
profits.  ConocoPhillips (COP)  closed its Tranier, Pennsylvania,
facility Sept. 30, while  Sunoco Inc. (SUN)  said Sept. 6 it was seeking
to dispose of its two refineries in the state by July or shut
them then if a buyer wasn’t found.  Chevron posted its biggest quarterly earnings decline in
two years after its refineries lost an average of $2.2 million a
day in the final three months of 2011. The  shares  gained 0.8
percent to close at $108.35 in New York trading yesterday.  The company said it may record a “significant” loss if
its 50-percent owned  Caltex Australia Ltd. (CTX)  alters operations at
its two refineries. Caltex said Feb. 16 it aims to complete a
review of its refineries in Sydney and  Brisbane  in about six
months and that closing the facilities is an option.  Caltex, based in Sydney, wrote down the value of the
refinery assets this month by A$1.5 billion ($1.6 billion)
because of Asian competition and a strong Australian dollar.  “Should the review result in a decision to significantly
alter the operational role” of the Caltex refineries, “Chevron
may recognize a loss that could be significant to net income in
any one period,” according to the company’s filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Guo Aibing in  Hong Kong  at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 