-- China Encourages Solar Companies to Expand Amid Supply Glut
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-24T14:29:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/china-encourages-solar-product-makers-to-expand-amid-supply-glut.html
China  set targets for increasing
production capacity at key polysilicon and solar cell makers,
part of the government’s plan to ensure its companies survive a
slump in prices.  China wants each “leading” company to have 50,000 tons a
year of polysilicon capacity by 2015 and targets 5 gigawatts for
each of its top solar-cell makers, according to a five-year  plan 
posted on the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology
website today.  The goal would boost supplies as prices slump, supporting
Chinese manufacturers led by  Suntech Power Holdings (STP)  Co. and  GCL-
Poly Energy Holdings Ltd. (3800)  Western manufactures such as  First
Solar Inc. (FSLR)  and Hemlock Semiconductor Corp. already are reporting
narrower margins and lower prices linked to rivals in China.  “In an industry that’s oversupplied, that the government
announces support for so much new capacity is not a positive,”
Sean McLoughlin, industry analyst for HSBC Holdings Plc in
 London , said today by phone. “The news that China’s aggressive
ramping up of production will continue is not helpful for
Western producers and their shares.”  Chinese companies supply about half of the world’s solar
cells and have 45 percent of polysilicon production capacity and
have expanded rapidly in recent years.  Q-Cells SE (QCE) , the German
solar cell maker that once was the world’s biggest producer,
earlier this month refinanced debt to avoid bankruptcy.  Plunging Prices  Excess capacity cut the price of solar panels in half last
year, depressing margins and prompting 15 of the 17 members of
Bloomberg Large Solar Index to post quarterly losses. Solar cell
prices more than halved last year and the average spot  price  for
polysilicon has tumbled 59 percent from a year earlier to $29.28
a kilogram, according to New Energy Finance.  Officials in Beijing aim to make domestic manufacturers
more competitive and able to meet demand for 15 gigawatts of
solar farms by 2015, Gao Hongling, deputy secretary-general of
the  China Photovoltaic Industry Alliance , said by phone today.  “If the scale isn’t up, there’s never enough financing for
the integrated use of byproducts,” said Gao, whose organization
advises both executives and ministers.  The government plan doesn’t indicate how many companies
will be involved and whether the targets mean an overall
capacity increase.  Leading Cell Makers  Suntech and  JA Solar Holdings (JASO)  Company Ltd. of China were
the largest cell manufacturers globally, and GCL-Poly was the
fourth-biggest polysilicon producer in 2010, Bloomberg New
Energy Finance data shows. Hemlock of  Michigan  is the largest
polysilicon maker followed by Wacker Chemie AG of  Germany  and
OCI Co. of  Korea .  China’s plan will support new equipment that will lower
prices, making existing capacity owners struggle “even more to
keep up,” Gao said.  The country idled almost one-third of polysilicon
production in December to support prices and a supply glut in
panels is likely to slash the number of domestic manufacturers
to 15 from more than 300 within half a decade, according to the
state-owned Energy Research Institute.  Global photovoltaic installations will be about 28.4
gigawatts this year, while manufacturing capacity may reach 45
gigawatts, according to New Energy Finance. New capacity last
year was about 28 gigawatts, of which 2.2 gigawatts in China.  Poly Makers Benefit  The plan is “bullish” for cell makers and less of an
issue for the polysilicon market, said McLoughlin from HSBC.
China has many more large cell makers that may be considered as
leading under the plan and fewer large polysilicon makers, he
said.  “China imported half its polysilicon from overseas
companies; this means there’s still room for domestic
producers,” Gao said. “The key is whether they have capability
to grab a share in the market and to lower costs.” Gao’s
organization is a conduit between solar companies and the
government.  The top five polysilicon producers including Hemlock and
Germany’s  Wacker Chemie AG (WCH) , more than doubled output in 2010
from 2008, New Energy Finance data shows.  GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Ltd., China’s largest polysilicon
maker, was 4,000 tons short of the new target last year, with
46,000 tons of capacity. Suntech Power Holdings Co., the world’s
biggest solar-panel maker, had annual solar-cell capacity of 2.4
gigawatts as of the end of the third quarter.  The nation has idled about 30 percent of polysilicon
production and won’t resume until prices recover, according to
Xie Chen, an analyst from the China Nonferrous Metals Industrial
Association, a trade group that advises the government.  “Chinese firms shut down not only because prices declined,
but also they can’t drag costs lower than the spot price,” she
said.  China installed about 2.7 gigawatts of solar farms last
year, Gao said. “As planned by the country, the installation
will have a steady growth year on year, which will create demand
for solar-power products.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bloomberg News Byline in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  