-- China’s Stocks Still Cheap After Rally as Fiscal Steps Loom, ABN Amro Says
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-02-24T03:11:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/china-s-stocks-still-cheap-after-rally-as-fiscal-steps-loom-abn-amro-says.html
China ’s shares are still undervalued
after this year’s rally and may extend gains as easing inflation
allows the government to adopt more fiscal policies to boost
economic growth, said ABN Amro Bank NV’s private bank unit.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  has risen 9.7 percent in 2012,
pushing up valuations to 10 times estimated earnings from a
record low of 8.9 times on Jan. 6, according to weekly data
compiled by Bloomberg. Still, that’s lower than its four-year
average multiple of 16.2, data showed. The index has risen for
six weeks, the longest winning streak since November 2010.  “We really like China,”  Daphne Roth , Singapore-based head
of Asian equity research at  ABN Amro  Private Bank, said in a
Bloomberg television interview today. China is the bank’s top
pick because of a “pretty low” valuation after equities
slumped last year, she said. The government has room for fiscal
stimulus after inflation peaked in 2011, Roth said.  Investor interest in Chinese equities is increasing. The
 value of shares  traded on the Shanghai stock exchange reaching
the highest since Nov. 3 on Feb. 22, almost the double the daily
average over the past 100 days, Bloomberg data showed, while new
stock account openings jumped 19 percent to 187,748 accounts in
the week ended ended Feb. 17, according to the China Securities
Depository and Clearing Corp.  China’s stocks have rebounded this year on speculation the
government will further cut lenders’ reserve-requirement ratios
and relax property restrictions to stem a decline in economic
growth triggered by two years of tight monetary policies and
 Europe ’s debt crisis.  Easing Signals  Concerns about China’s slowdown increased after January
data showed exports and imports falling for the first time in
two years, new lending was the lowest for that month in five
years and M2, the broad measure of  money supply , grew the least
in more than a decade. The expansion may be cut almost in half
if Europe’s debt crisis worsens, the  International Monetary Fund 
said in a Feb. 6 report.  China’s stocks may fall for a third year as the central
bank’s “fine-tuning” of monetary policies won’t be enough to
offset an economic slowdown, David Cui, chief China strategist
at Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit, said in an
interview in its Shanghai office on Feb. 22. The Shanghai gauge
tumbled a combined 33 percent in 2010 and 2011, making it the
worst performer among the world’s 10 biggest markets.  The central bank announced a cut in lenders’ reserve-
requirement ratios last weekend for the second time in three
months, amid concern a credit crunch will curb lending to small
companies. Premier  Wen Jiabao  said this month the government
will support small companies with a 15 billion-yuan ($2.4
billion) fund. China will raise export tax rebates for some
goods for the first time since 2009 this year, the  China Daily 
reported Feb. 21, citing Vice Commerce Minister Zhong Shan.  “With the valuation, the easing policy bias, it’s my top
pick country,” said Roth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  