-- China Leading Economic Index Rises at Faster Pace in January Than December
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-24T02:26:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/china-leading-economic-index-rises-at-faster-pace-in-january-than-december.html
A leading index for China rose at a
faster pace as policy makers step up efforts to boost liquidity
and sustain  growth  in the world’s second-largest economy.  The gauge gained 1.6 percent to 225.7 in January from the
previous month, the Conference Board said in a statement today,
citing a preliminary reading. The New York-based research
organization last month said it made benchmark revisions to the
index. The gauge rose 0.8 percent in December.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  is trying to sustain the pace of
economic expansion while maintaining a campaign to cool the
 property market . The central bank on Feb. 18 announced the
second cut in bank reserve requirements in three months after a
decline in exports and the lowest January lending in five years.  Even with the pickup in the gauge, “the trend remains
slower than the first half of 2011 and equal numbers of its
components have been rising and falling over the past several
months, indicating a broad-based slowing,” Andrew Polk,
resident  China  economist at the Conference Board, said in the
statement.  China’s gross domestic product expanded 8.9 percent in the
fourth quarter of 2011 from a year earlier, the slowest pace
since the second period in 2009.  The leading index’s components include loans, a gauge of
raw-materials supplies, export orders, consumer expectations and
floor space started, using data released by the central bank and
the statistics bureau. The Conference Board says the index,
first published in May 2010, signals turning points in China’s
economic cycles if plotted back to 1986.  The group in January began releasing the index for the
previous month instead of with the prior two-month lag.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  