-- Christie Budget Relies on ‘Optimistic’ Projections
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-02-24T22:54:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/christie-s-new-jersey-budget-relies-on-optimistic-projections-s-p-says.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie ’s
$32.1 billion budget is structurally unbalanced because it is
built on “optimistic” economic-growth projections, according
to Standard & Poor’s.  The spending plan, introduced Feb. 21, counts on  tax
revenue  increasing 7.3 percent, the most since before the
recession began in December 2007. It also depends on using $288
million of reserves and increases the state’s reliance on one-
time revenues to $1.6 billion, S&P said today in a report.  “The economic assumptions that underpin the state’s
revenue forecast appear to be optimistic based on current and
projected economic conditions at the state and national
levels,” wrote John Sugden, an S&P credit analyst.  Christie, a first-term Republican, proposed the biggest
budget in five years for fiscal 2013, which begins July 1. The
plan, which is $2.4 billion more than the one enacted last year,
would cut income and business taxes while making a $1.1 billion
pension payment, the biggest in state history.  “This governor has an unbroken record of creating
responsible, balanced budgets without tax increases that have
been built on solid, conservative revenue estimates,” Treasurer
Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff said in a statement. “We think S&P
should learn from its own experience and make more of an effort
to avoid reaching premature conclusions.”  ‘Victory Lap’  Kevin Roberts , a spokesman for Christie, declined to
immediately comment on the report, saying he hadn’t seen it.  “It really puts a halt to the victory lap he’s been
doing,” said Ben Dworkin, director of the Rebovich Institute of
 New Jersey  Politics at  Rider University  in Lawrenceville.
“Chris Christie has been all over national television promoting
his efforts to turn around New Jersey as exemplified by this
budget. He got driven off that message because now he has to
respond to this.”  Assemblyman Declan O’Scanlon, a Republican from Little
Silver who is his party’s budget officer, said he disagrees with
S&P’s assessment of the spending plan. Christie would be ill-
served to inflate projections to boost spending, and the
increase in one-time revenue is due to the tax cuts, he said.  Re-Election Calculus  “It wouldn’t benefit them to be overly optimistic and have
to make mid-year budget cuts,” O’Scanlon said in an interview.
“The governor’s got to be re-elected less than two years from
now, if he was overly optimistic and had to make mid-year cuts,
there would really be a political risk for him.”  Under New Jersey’s 1947 Constitution, the governor and
lawmakers must adopt a balanced budget by the July 1 start of
the fiscal year. That requirement led to a week-long shutdown in
2006, when Democratic Governor  Jon Corzine  ordered non-essential
state services closed after lawmakers balked at his proposal to
balance the budget through a sales-tax increase.  Christie, who ousted Corzine in 2009 and is midway through
his first term, froze $2.2 billion in spending to close a
midyear deficit in 2010, and then cut $10 billion in projected
new spending for schools, pensions and towns. He is now calling
for a 10 percent income-tax cut over 36 months, which he said is
needed to spur growth, and has promised to veto any attempt to
increase taxes on residents earning $1 million or more.  Spending Growth  Governments from  New York City  to  California  have begun
crafting budgets based in part on anticipated revenue growth.
Two Republican governors,  Florida ’s  Rick Scott  and  Michigan ’s
 Rick Snyder , have proposed higher spending.  Nationwide, combined state tax revenue rose 6.1 percent
from July to September, the seventh-straight quarter of growth,
and the streak may have extended into the three months ended in
December, according to a Jan. 26 report from the Nelson A.
 Rockefeller Institute  of Government. Yet the gains appear to be
weakening, the  Albany , New York-based group said.  Christie’s budget forecasts income-tax revenue to increase
6.3 percent after the tax cuts, while year-to-date collections
are coming in 2.9 percent below budget as of December, S&P said.  While New Jersey’s total revenue rose 3.2 percent through
the first half of this fiscal year from the same period of 2011,
it was 3.2 percent, or $326 million, below budget targets.  Senator  Paul Sarlo , a Democrat from Wood-Ridge who is
chairman of the budget committee, said Christie’s plan is
“overly optimistic.” Derek Roseman, a spokesman for Senate
Democrats, said no date has been set for a start to legislative
hearings on Christie’s budget. Democrats control both houses of
the Legislature.  Economic Reality  “The first order of business as my committee dissects this
is we need to get a better handle on the state of the economy in
New Jersey and whether these revenue projections are
realistic,” Sarlo said in a telephone interview.  Rising pension costs and a slow recovery led  Standard &
Poor’s , Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings to lower the
state’s credit grade last year. New Jersey’s general-obligation
debt is rated AA- by S&P and Fitch, the fourth-highest grade,
and a comparable Aa3 by Moody’s.  S&P hasn’t changed its rating or outlook on New Jersey,
Sugden said in an interview.  “This is the proposed budget and we’re just giving our
view based on that,” he said. “Often times, there are
significant changes between the proposed budget and what gets
enacted, particularly in New Jersey.”  Underfunding Pensions  Although Christie’s proposal more than doubles the pension
contribution, and accounts for 3.3 percent of total spending, it
continues to defer full payments. New Jersey is only funding 29
percent of the amount recommended by actuaries, resulting in
“continued pressure on its pension system,” S&P said.  One-time revenues account for 5 percent of the total in
Christie’s 2013 budget, up from 4 percent in 2012, S&P said. The
state projects ending this year with $588 million in reserves,
which would fall to $300 million, or less than 1 percent of
expenditures, at the end of 2013, S&P said.  “At this level, New Jersey’s fund balance would provide a
limited financial cushion with which to offset revenue
shortfalls should current revenue growth assumptions turn out to
be optimistic,” S&P said.  Christie’s opponents are sure to use S&P’s findings as an
example of a Wall Street firm questioning his handling of budget
issues, said  Peter Woolley , director of the  PublicMind   polling
institute at Fairleigh Dickinson University in Madison.  “It hurts Christie where he’s strongest: that’s to say on
his reputation for being fiscally conservative,” Woolley said.
“It just becomes a weapon for Democrats to use. How effective
they are, really, is going to depend on the economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  