-- Citigroup Casts Doubt on Cost Cutting as Progress Lags
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-02-24T20:45:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/citigroup-casts-doubt-on-expense-goal-as-asset-sales-at-citi-holdings-slow.html
Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit ’s plan to cut  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s expenses as much as $3
billion this year may be threatened by regulatory and legal
costs and a slowdown in his sales of unwanted assets.  Citigroup, with operations in more than 100 countries,
faces costs from foreign exchange, litigation and regulation
that are difficult to predict or control, the bank said today in
its annual filing with securities regulators. The New York-based
company may incur more expenses as it invests in businesses,
according to the filing.  “Citi continues to pursue a disciplined expense-management
strategy, including re-engineering, restructuring operations and
improving the efficiency of functions,” said the bank, ranked
third by assets in the U.S. “However, there is no guarantee
that Citi will be able to maintain or reduce its level of
 expenses  in the future.”  Traders and investment bankers may be among 5,000 Citigroup
employees who lose their jobs as Pandit, 55, adjusts to last
year’s 10 percent revenue slump. Expenses advanced 7 percent in
the same period, and the bank said last month it may “further
restructure” if revenue doesn’t improve.  Pandit may also be hindered by the shrinking Citi Holdings
unit, which he created in the wake of the bank’s $45 billion
bailout in 2008 to hold the bank’s troubled investments,
according to the filing. He has since disposed of more than $300
billion of assets, including unwanted finance firms and private-
equity stakes.  The CEO won’t be able to sell the remaining  assets  at the
same pace of the past three years, which means “Citi’s ability
to continue to reduce its expenses as a result of this wind-down
will also decline,” the bank said.  Much of Citi Holdings consists of U.S. mortgages that the
bank probably will keep until they are paid back, according to
the filing, which cited lack of a market to sell delinquent
home-equity loans. CitiFinancial, a consumer finance lender, is
also among remaining assets tagged for sale.  Shannon Bell , a spokeswoman for the bank, declined to
elaborate on the filing.  -- Editors:  Rick Green , William Ahearn  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 