-- Clearwire Drops as Google Plans Stake Sale: Seattle Mover
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   Y a b l o n   a n d   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-02-24T21:11:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/clearwire-drops-after-google-says-it-plans-to-sell-stake.html
Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) , the unprofitable
wireless-broadband provider, fell the most in two months after
 Google (GOOG)  Inc. said it plans to sell its stake in the company.  Clearwire declined 6.8 percent to $2.11 at the close in  New
York  for the biggest one-day slump since Dec. 20. The stock has
tumbled 56 percent in the past 12 months. Google, based in
 Mountain View , California, plans to sell the company’s stake at
$1.60 a share, according to a U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission filing today.  The sale of the stake, for less than a tenth of what Google
paid for it, comes amid increasing obstacles for the loss-making
carrier’s prospects, said  Christopher King , an analyst with
Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore. The Bellevue, Washington-
based company  said  this month that it may need new capital to
fund operations beyond next year as losses widened in the fourth
quarter.  “Clearwire has had financing challenges,” said King, who
recommends  holding  the shares. “It’s got some business-model
challenges, with the dominance of Verizon and AT&T,” he said in
a telephone interview.  Google owns 6.5 percent of Clearwire, or 29.4 million
shares, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. At $1.60 a
share, Google’s holding would be worth $47 million.  The company will offer the stake to other Clearwire equity
holders, including affiliates of  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and Middlefield
Ventures Inc., the filing showed. If they don’t purchase the
entire stake, Google will make the remainder available, in one
or more open-market transactions, beginning on about Feb. 27,
Google said. Other Clearwire owners include  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) 
and Comcast Corp.  2008 Investment  Google invested about $500 million in Clearwire in 2008 as
part of group of communications and technology firms, including
Sprint, Comcast,  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  and Bright House
Networks LLC, which combined invested $3.2 billion. The purchase
was part of a plan to reshape Clearwire into a company with 4G,
or faster fourth-generation network technology.  Intel Corp.  wrote off  $938 million of its Clearwire
investment in 2009, following a decline in the company’s share
price.  Sprint owns about half of Clearwire and uses its network to
offer higher-speed wireless service to its subscribers.  Clearwire reported a loss of 81 cents a share in the fourth
quarter, from a loss of 79 cents a year earlier. In December,
the company had said it was raising $595 million through two
sales of common stock to build its LTE network.  Susan Johnston , a spokeswoman for Clearwire, declined to
comment on the matter. Jim Prosser, a Google spokesman, declined
to comment beyond the the company’s regulatory filing.  “Google periodically rebalances its investments based on
its goals and its evaluation of market conditions,” according
to the filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Yablon in New York at 
 ayablon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  