-- Clinton ‘Betting Against’ Assad as Annan Named Syria Envoy
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-02-24T19:12:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/clinton-betting-against-assad-as-tunis-talks-buoy-opposition.html
The U.S. and allies in the “Friends
of  Syria ” group sought to increase pressure on President Bashar al-Assad, announcing planning would begun for deploying United
Nations peacekeepers after his ouster.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and officials from more
than 70 countries attended the meeting in Tunis, which was
confronted by pro-Assad supporters waving placards and shouting
for the U.S. to leave the region. Clinton’s motorcade was
diverted from the conference site until Tunisian security forces
cleared the demonstration.  As Qatar and Tunisia called for Arab forces to enter Syria
and enforce peace, Clinton denounced the Syrian regime’s
violence against its opponents as an “affront to the
international community, a threat to regional security, and a
grave violation of universal human rights.” She called for a
“negotiated, political settlement” that results in Assad’s
departure.  “There should be no mistaking our resolve,” Clinton said
in remarks to the meeting. “These crimes against the Syrian
people must stop, and there must be accountability for senior
figures of the regime.”  Today’s meeting was meant to peel away the Syrian leader’s
business and military support within the country and highlight
the isolation of Russia and  China , which have protected Assad
from calls to step down with two UN vetoes, according to
diplomats attending the conference who spoke on condition of
anonymity.  Stained Honor  “To those Syrians who still support Assad, especially
members of the Syrian military: Understand that this regime has
no future,” Clinton said in remarks to the meeting. “The
longer you carry out its campaign of violence, the more it will
stain your honor.”  The Friends group announced it will begin planning for an
economic and political transition. The goal, Clinton said, is to
fulfill the  Arab League ’s vision of a national unity government
in Syria and Assad’s ouster.  “We know the time of the regime is ending,” Volker Perthes, head of the Berlin-based Institute for International
and Security Affairs and the author of books on Syria and the
Arab world, said in an interview. “Most of Assad’s shelf life
is over, but he could still hold on for months.”  At the same time, “building golden bridges for people high
in the regime who may want to leave is a way to speed Assad’s
end,” he said. “It needs to be made clear to these people that
they won’t starve if they leave for Lebanon,  Europe  or
elsewhere.”  Special Envoy  On the eve of the talks, the UN and Arab League appointed
former UN chief Kofi Annan to be special envoy on the Syrian
crisis. The current UN chief, Ban Ki-Moon, would begin planning
for the deployment of “blue helmet” peacekeeping forces, a
process that he can do without fear of being blocked by either
Russia or China, the diplomats said.  Planning such missions requires finding funding and
defining the mandate. The Arab League pushed for the declaration
of the UN plans, the diplomats said, in part to get member
countries started on their own plans to contribute.  In his remarks, Tunisian president Moncef Marzouki called
for the formation of “an Arab force, accompanied by diplomatic
efforts to keep peace and security in Syria.” He called on
Assad to step down, and renewed his country’s rejection of a
military intervention in Syria.  Arming the Opposition  Some countries, such as Qatar and  Saudi Arabia , say the
Friends group should arm the Syrian opposition, a position the
U.S. rejects for fear of militarizing the conflict.  As he went into a one-on-one meeting with Clinton, Saudi
Foreign Minister Prince Saud al-Faisal said he thought arming
the opposition is “an excellent idea.” Asked why, he said,
“because they have to protect themselves.”  “If someone is being attacked ‘‘and being just a recipient
of harm, not able to defend himself, his family, and his
property, is not something enjoyable to see,’’ Saud told
reporters.  Riad Kahwaji, director of the Institute for Near East &
Gulf Military Analysis in Dubai, said if other countries funnel
weapons to the opposition, it is likely to be anti-armor or
anti-aircraft weapons needed to take out tanks and aircraft.  Kahwaji said one reason the U.S. doesn’t back arming the
opposition might be Syria’s proximity to  Israel .  Spillover Issues  ‘‘If the situation worsens in Syria, the government
collapses, there is a fear that militias and armed groups will
spread and risk turning into an insurgency that may spillover
into the  Golan Heights ,” Kahwaji said in a phone interview
today. “If Syria was not on Israel’s border there would have
been military intervention yesterday.”  The death toll in the Syrian government’s crackdown on
protests has risen to about 8,500, according to the Arab
Organization for Human Rights. Assad’s government says “armed
terrorist groups” with foreign support are responsible for the
violence.  The Friends group challenged Assad to stop his assault on
cities by declaring its immediate readiness to deliver aid as
soon as the bombardment stops. The group announced an  aid
structure, led by the UN, with operational hubs in Jordan,
Lebanon and  Turkey  to deliver aid.  ‘New Syria’  “If the Assad regime refuses to allow this life-saving aid
to reach civilians, it will have even more blood on its hands,”
Clinton said. “So too will those nations that continue to
protect and arm the regime.”  Burhan Ghalioun, president of the Syrian National Council,
an umbrella group of regime opponents, addressed the council and
said “the new Syria will not be the property of any sect,
denomination or group, rather it will be a homeland for all
citizens equally.” He appealed to Syria’s Christian and Kurdish
minorities, assuring them their rights would be respected.  Opposition groups in the besieged city of Homs addressed
the conference by video link.  Syrian troops today continued their three-week bombardment
of Homs, the country’s third-largest city, where two western
journalists were among the fatalities this week. Al-Jazeera
television today showed footage of three reporters who said they
are stranded in Syria.  French journalist Edith Bouvier, whose leg was broken in
the attack that killed the Sunday Times’s Marie Colvin and
photographer Remi Ochlik, pleaded in the video for a cease-fire
so she can be evacuated. “The doctors here treated us very
well, as much as they can, but they are not able to undertake
surgeries,” she said.  The French Foreign Ministry said Ambassador Eric Chevallier
returned to the Damascus embassy, after a two weeks absence, and
will “work hard” to arrange Bouvier’s evacuation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  