-- Clorox Chief Executive Targets Health-Care Brands in Acquisition Strategy
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-02-24T14:40:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/clorox-chief-executive-targets-health-care-brands-in-acquisition-strategy.html
Clorox Co. (CLX) , targeted last year by
Carl Icahn, would consider acquisitions of health-care products
and services to fuel what could become a $300 million business,
according to its chief executive officer.  “That’s the No. 1 priority on more M&A,” CEO and Chairman
Don Knauss said yesterday in an interview at an analyst
conference in Boca Raton,  Florida . Clorox also would consider
international acquisitions and personal-care brands to
supplement its Burt’s Bees skin-care line. The Oakland,
California-based company has made health-care purchases in the
past two years.  “We’ll continue to look at bolt-on acquisitions” in  Latin
America , the  Middle East  and perhaps Southeast Asia, Knauss
said. He said Clorox’s health-care business was “basically
nonexistent” three years ago and now generates more than $100
million in annual sales.  The company rejected multiple takeover proposals from Icahn
last year, with the highest valuing it at $10.7 billion, or  $80
a share . Icahn sought to install himself and 10 others on
Clorox’s board after his initial offer, then withdrew his slate
in September after concluding that shareholders wouldn’t back
his plan to sell the company. He subsequently sold his holdings.  Clorox was little changed at $68.10 at 9:34 a.m. in  New
York .  The shares  gained 5.2 percent last year.  Icahn Proposal  Icahn had proposed that Clorox seek potential buyers
including  Procter & Gamble Co . and Kimberly-Clark Corp. and also
said he’d consider breaking up the company. Knauss said the
company’s portfolio of businesses is “congruent” after it
divested the auto-care unit in 2010, with all remaining brands
sold in grocery stores. “The whole is greater than the sum of
its parts,” he said.  The company’s disparate brands include Clorox bleach,
Kingsford charcoal, Fresh Step cat litter and Hidden Valley
salad dressings.  A purchase by larger competitors wouldn’t make sense since
they’re focused on emerging markets, Knauss said. “We’re not
strategically aligned with what they’re trying to do,” he said.  Clorox said Icahn’s bids undervalued the company and it
would stick with its so-called Centennial strategy to expand
sales of key brands.  The company, which generated 21 percent of its $5.2 billion
in sales last year outside of  North America , plans to increase
that number to at least 25 percent, Knauss said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  