-- Colombia Raises Main Rate to 5.25% to Slow Credit-Fueled Economic Growth
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-02-24T21:28:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/colombia-raises-main-rate-to-5-25-to-slow-credit-fueled-economic-growth.html
Colombia ’s central bank raised
borrowing costs for a second straight month in a bid to
stabilize the fastest economic growth since 2006 and slow
inflation toward the mid-point of policy makers’ target amid a
surge in lending.  The seven-member board, led by bank chief Jose Dario Uribe,
raised the overnight  interest rate  by a quarter point to 5.25
percent today, as forecast by 22 of 36 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Fourteen analysts expected no change. The decision
wasn’t unanimous.  “The latest information suggests that in the fourth
quarter of 2011 the Colombian economy continued to show strong
momentum and that this performance has continued in early 2012.
Both exports and imports of capital goods continued to grow at
high rates in December,” policy makers said in their statement
posted on the central bank’s website.  Speaking after the decision in Bogota, Colombia Finance
Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry said the economy grew “very
close” to 6 percent in 2011 and that long-term growth of 5
percent to 7 percent is “reasonable.”  Policy makers also extended a program of daily purchases of
a minimum of $20 million in auctions begun Feb. 6 to Aug. 4 or
later while taking no additional measures to curb the peso’s
gains.  Echeverry said the “expansionist” policies of the U.S. are
a factor behind the peso’s rally and that G-20 leaders plan to
discuss U.S. policies. He said he will attend the G-20 summit in
 Mexico  this weekend.  Lending  Colombia’s policy makers in recent months have repeatedly
voiced concern over the pace of credit growth in  South America ’s
fourth-biggest economy.  The central bank in January cited a 25 percent climb in
consumer credit in December, “strong” growth and inflation
expectations near the upper end of the bank’s target range in
explaining their quarter-point rate increase, which surprised 31
of 32 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Loan growth coupled with a surge in housing prices suggests
Colombia may be at “risk of an asset price bubble in the real
estate sector,”  Daniel Volberg , an economist at Morgan Stanley
in  New York  wrote in a report this month.  Total lending  rose to 215.3 trillion pesos ($121 billion)
in December, up 22 percent from 175.9 trillion pesos in the same
month a year earlier.  Targets  Policy makers forecast gross domestic product in Colombia
may be as high as 6 percent this year after a similar expansion
last year. GDP rose 7.7 percent in the third quarter from a year
earlier, which even surprised the bank’s board, according to
last month’s statement.  The economy last expanded at a faster pace in the fourth
quarter of 2006 when GDP rose 7.73 percent.  A government report yesterday showed that retail sales in
December rose 7.5 percent from a year earlier, higher than all
but two of 17 forecasts of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Annual inflation slowed to 3.54 percent in January after
breaching the upper limit of the 2 percent to 4 percent target
range in October for the first time since 2009.  Policy makers are focused on reaching the mid-point of the
target, Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry, who is also
president of the central bank board.  Annual core inflation indicators eased in January, though
they remained above the bank’s mid-point target, according to
central bank statistics. Annual inflation in housing prices grew
to 4.06 percent in January, up from 3.3 percent in August,
according to government statistics.  Peso, ‘Political Pressure’  The government forecasts  foreign direct investment  will
rise to $16 billion in 2012, from 2011’s record $14.5 billion,
as companies search for oil, coal and gold in areas that were
once overrun by rebel and considered too dangerous to explore.  Colombian policy makers are also studying new measures to
slow  consumer credit  growth as a compliment to recent interest
rate increases, central bank co-director Carlos Gustavo Cano
said in a Feb. 10 interview.  Colombia may step up measures to weaken the peso, which has
gained 9.2 percent this year, if it continues to appreciate,
said  Andres Pardo , the head analyst at financial services
holding company Corp. Financiera Colombiana, known as
Corficolombiana.  This could include stepping up dollar purchases to $30
million or $40 million per day, or introducing curbs on lending
in foreign currencies, Pardo said.  “There’s a lot of political pressure going on from the
agricultural sector, from the export sector, pressuring the
central bank to do more to fight the appreciation of the
currency,” Pardo said, speaking by phone from Bogota. “If it
gets to a point where it gets really, really appreciated, they
might impose some sort of  capital controls .”  The peso was little changed at 1775.75 per dollar today
from 1776.44 yesterday. Its 5.4 percent gain in the last four
months is the best performance of 25 emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg and its 2012 gain is fifth best.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 