-- Copper Traders Most Bullish in Two Months as Hedge Funds Buy: Commodities
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2012-02-24T17:29:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/copper-traders-most-bullish-in-two-months-as-hedge-funds-buy-commodities.html
Copper traders are the most bullish
in two months on speculation that demand will strengthen from
the U.S. to  China  at a time when stockpiles monitored by the
world’s biggest metals exchange are at a 2 1/2 year low.  Fourteen of 29 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect the
metal to gain next week and 10 were neutral, the highest
proportion since Dec. 23. Inventories tracked by the London
Metal Exchange are set for a fifth consecutive monthly drop and
money managers have their biggest bet on rising prices since
early August, Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.  Global equities and commodities climbed to at least six-
month highs this week after euro-area finance ministers approved
130 billion euros ($173 billion) in aid for Greece to avert an
economic collapse. China said Feb. 18 that it will cut banks’
reserve requirements to boost growth and U.S. indicators pointed
last week to sustained economic expansion as  Barclays Capital 
anticipates a third consecutive copper shortage this year.  “Copper is benefiting from very positive sentiment and
from high levels of liquidity,” said  Daniel Briesemann , an
analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “It’s being driven by
restrained supply and robust demand.”  The metal rose 12 percent to $8,515 a metric ton this year
on the LME, the best start since 2008. The Standard & Poor’s
GSCI gauge of 24 commodities climbed 10 percent and MSCI All-
Country World  Index (MXWD)  of equities gained 11 percent. Treasuries
lost 0.4 percent, a Bank of America Corp.  index (MXWD)  shows.  China Measures  The People’s Bank of China said that the proportion of cash
that lenders must set aside will fall half a percentage point
from today, with Standard Chartered Plc and HSBC Holdings Plc
predicting more reductions this year. The 0.4 percent increase
in the Conference Board’s gauge of the U.S. outlook for the next
three to six months on Feb. 17 followed a 0.5 percent increase
in December, the strongest back-to-back gain in almost a year.  China consumes about 40 percent of the world’s copper and
 North America  accounts for about 11 percent of demand. Refined
production of the metal lagged usage by 119,000 tons in
November, the most since March 2010, the International Copper
Study Group said yesterday. Barclays estimates a shortage of
376,000 tons this year, and another shortfall in 2013.  The International Monetary Fund forecasts growth of 8.2
percent in China this year will drive a global expansion of 3.3
percent. Inventories of copper monitored by the LME slid 36
percent since October to 303,500 tons, the lowest level since
September 2009, exchange data show.  Shanghai Stockpiles  While combined stockpiles tracked by bourses in London, New
York and  Shanghai  slid 7.7 percent since October, Shanghai
copper inventories more than doubled this year, the data show.
China’s manufacturing may shrink for a fourth month in February,
a Feb. 22 preliminary reading from HSBC and Markit Economics
showed, as exports are capped and the housing market cools.  Refined copper imports by the nation fell 18 percent in
January from a record in December, the first decline in eight
months, according to Bloomberg calculations based on Feb. 21
data from the General Administration of Customs.  Imports (CURIIQTL)  may
decrease this year, Jacob Shen, a trader at INTL FCStone Inc.,
said in an interview in  Singapore  yesterday.  Europe  remains a risk to commodities used in construction
and industry, even after ministers approved a second bailout and
persuaded investors to provide more debt relief to  Greece .
Europe’s economy will shrink 0.3 percent this year, the European
Commission said yesterday, abandoning a November forecast of 0.5
percent growth.  ‘Temporary Solution’  Copper benefited “from the temporary resolution of
Greece’s financial woes,” said Mark Lewon, the president of
Utah Metal Works Inc., a Salt Lake City-based company recycling
industrial scrap. “I fully expect Greece to continue to have
problems as government revenues fail to reach the levels
expected due to the contraction in the economy.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. expects the metal to fall to
$8,000 in three months before rebounding to $9,000 in a year,
5.7 percent above today’s price. The bank on Feb. 22 cut its
prediction for commodity returns to 12 percent from 15 percent
after prices rallied this year.  Hedge funds  and other money managers are getting more
bullish. Speculators raised their net-long position in copper by
20 percent to 14,817 futures and options in the week ended Feb.
14, the highest level since Aug. 2, CFTC data show. Wagers on
higher prices more than tripled since mid-January.  Gold Survey  Seventeen of 23 traders and analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
expect gold to gain next week. Futures on the Comex in  New York 
rose 13 percent to $1,776.40 an ounce this year after a 10
percent increase in 2011. Holdings in gold-backed exchange-
traded products stand at 2,391.9 tons, less than 0.1 percent
below the record in December, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Eight of 11 people surveyed expect raw-sugar prices to
increase next week. The commodity gained 7.5 percent this year
to 25.04 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York.  Ten of 21 people surveyed anticipate higher corn prices
next week, while 15 of 22 said soybeans will climb. Corn fell 1
percent to $6.40 a bushel this year as soybeans gained 6.6
percent to $12.88 a bushel.  “We had a huge rally already in many commodities,” said
Jesper Dannesboe, an analyst at Societe Generale SA in  London .
“In the near term I think a correction could come, or at least
a consolidation, and then you should maybe try to buy on those
dips. We’re moderately bullish.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 