-- Corn Declines as U.S. Acreage Expands, Ukraine Shipments Seen Increasing
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2012-02-24T13:46:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/corn-declines-as-u-s-acreage-expands-ukraine-shipments-seen-increasing.html
Corn declined, set for a weekly
loss, after the U.S. government maintained its outlook that the
country’s farmers will boost acreage to the most since 1944,
adding to global supply as Ukraine forecasts higher shipments.  Planting will rise to 94 million acres (38 million
hectares),  Joe Glauber , chief economist at the  U.S. Department
of Agriculture , said at a conference yesterday. Exports from
Ukraine, vying with  Argentina  to be the second-largest shipper,
will jump 20 percent as farmers expand planting, said Andrew
Druzyaka, adviser at the State Food & Grain Corp. of Ukraine.  “Supply looks strong this year, driven by higher
plantings,”  Tobias Merath , head of commodity research at Credit
Suisse AG private banking unit, wrote in a report today. “This
is weighing on prices and given the prevailing over-valuation
and negative technical trend, price risks should remain skewed
to the downside in the coming weeks.”  May-delivery corn declined 0.6 percent to $6.385 a bushel
on the Chicago Board of Trade by 1:25 p.m. in  London . Futures
are set for a 1 percent loss this week.  Inventories in the U.S., the largest grower and exporter,
may rebound as growth in biofuel demand slows, helping relieve
some volatility that has roiled markets, Glauber said.  In Ukraine, shipments may rise to 15 million metric tons in
2012-13, from 12.5 million tons a year earlier, as farmers sow
corn in some winter-wheat areas damaged by dry weather followed
by frost and last year’s bumper crops boost carry-over
stockpiles, Druzyaka of Ukraine’s State Food & Grain Corp. said
in an interview yesterday. That would be a record, according to
USDA data.  ‘Production Risk’  “When you do look at these numbers, they’re showing that
global production is looking strong for the season ahead,” said
 Michael Creed , an agribusiness economist at  National Australia
Bank Ltd. (NAB)  While bigger acreage in the U.S. and higher shipments
from Ukraine have “some bearish influence on prices, there’s
always that associated production risk and its impact on
prices,” he said, referring to potential weather-related crop
losses.  A continued decline in corn prices “will be a catalyst for
alternative crops,” Neil Burgess, a commodity analyst at
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , said in an e-mail.  Soybeans for May delivery gained 0.1 percent to $12.845 a
bushel, heading for a weekly gain of 0.8 percent.  Wheat for delivery in May was down 0.7 percent to $6.3675 a
bushel, taking the weekly decline to 1.7 percent. Milling wheat
for November delivery was 1.2 percent lower at 191.25 euros
($256.4) a ton on NYSE Liffe in Paris, down 1.3 percent for the
week.  Russia, set to be the world’s third-largest wheat exporter,
may ship about 22 million tons in the year beginning July 1,
unchanged from this year, as the damage to winter crops is
unlikely to curb the exportable surplus, Arkady Zlochevsky,
president of the Russian Grain Union, said Feb. 22.  “This additional supply is quite bearish” for prices,
National Australia Bank’s Creed said. “The global wheat market
is pretty comfortable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  