-- Dudley Sees Higher U.S. Interest Costs, Making Fiscal Repairs ‘Essential’
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-02-24T20:51:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/dudley-sees-higher-u-s-interest-costs-making-fiscal-repairs-essential-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York 
President William C. Dudley warned that interest costs on
government debt will eventually increase as the central bank
raises borrowing costs, and he said it is “essential” for the
U.S. to start aiming for fiscal balance.  “We are in an unusual period in which net interest expense
is temporarily depressed,” he said. “This will not last and
the fiscal authorities need to factor this in when considering
what needs to be done to put the federal  budget deficit  and the
nation’s debt burden on a sustainable path.”  Dudley repeated last month’s statement by the  Federal Open
Market Committee  that low rates of resource use and subdued
inflation “are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels for
the federal funds rate at least through late 2014.” He is a
permanent voting member of the panel.  “These unusually low  interest rates  are the result of
monetary policy actions taken by the FOMC,” Dudley said in
remarks prepared for the U.S. Monetary Policy Forum hosted by
the University of Chicago Booth School of Business. “The sole
purpose of these actions has been to promote the dual mandate
objectives of maximum employment and price stability in the wake
of the financial crisis.”  The Fed is also putting downward pressure on long-term
rates by extending the maturity of its portfolio. U.S. 10-year
notes yielded 1.98 percent at 3:50 p.m. in New York, down from
3.44 percent a year ago. Two-year Treasury notes show that the
government can borrow for that term at around 0.30 percent
today.  Fed Remittances  The New York Fed president also noted that Treasury
receipts have been boosted by the central bank’s remittances.
The Fed’s balance  sheet  has grown to $2.935 trillion, up from
$868 billion at the in June 2007, as it has purchased government
debt to lower rates and support the expansion. Remittances rose
to more than $75 billion per year over the last two years, after
averaging $27 billion from 2005 to 2007, Dudley said.  “The low interest rates and enlarged balance sheet, which
has generated these reduced borrowing costs, will not be
sustained over time,” Dudley said. “The ancillary effects on
the federal deficit from the Fed’s monetary policy actions are
incidental and will prove temporary.”  As the Fed’s policy rates move up, and the balance sheet
shrinks, the Treasury’s net interest burden will rise
“sharply,” Dudley said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at   ctorres3@bloomberg.net ; Caroline Salas Gage in New York at
   csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  