-- Netherlands’ Prince May Never Regain Consciousness After Skiing Accident
-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l   a n d   M a r t i j n   v a n   d e r   S t a r r e
-- 2012-02-24T13:05:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/dutch-prince-friso-suffers-brain-damage-may-not-recover-from-ski-accident.html
Friso van Oranje, the second son of
 Queen Beatrix  of the Netherlands, suffered massive  brain damage 
and may never regain consciousness following a skiing accident
in Austria a week ago.  “At the moment, it can’t be predicted whether he’ll ever
regain consciousness,” Wolfgang Koller, head of the trauma unit
at the Innsbruck Medical University hospital, where the prince
is being treated,  told reporters  today. “In any event,
rehabilitation will take months, if not years.”  Friso, 43, was trapped in an avalanche on Feb. 17 while
skiing off-piste at the western Austrian ski resort of Lech,
where the Dutch royal family has spent winter vacations since
1959. He was buried for about 25 minutes before being rescued
and transported by helicopter to Innsbruck, Koller said today.  “Due to the length of time he was covered under the snow,
his brain was deprived of oxygen,” he said. “This led to
cardiac arrest, which lasted about 50 minutes. The patient had
to be reanimated during this entire period. Fifty minutes of
reanimation is a very long time, one could say, too long.”  The family will now seek a suitable rehabilitation center,
Koller said. Friso’s brothers Crown Prince Willem-Alexander and
Prince Constantijn and their families last week joined the
Queen, Friso’s wife Princess Mabel and their two daughters, who
were in  Austria  at the time of the accident.  ‘Concern and Sorrow’  Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  told the Queen and Princess Mabel
by telephone that “the Netherlands is sympathizing intensely
with the family in these times of concern and sorrow,”
according to a statement.  Friso is not in the succession to the Dutch throne. He gave
up his claim in 2003 by deciding to marry Mabel Wisse Smit
without parliament’s permission. She had provided incomplete
information to the government during a background check about
her past relationship with the late Klaas Bruinsma, the former
head of a Dutch criminal organization.  No longer a member of the Royal House and having given up
his status as Prince of the  Netherlands , Friso is still part of
the royal family and retains the title of Prince of Oranje.  He joined Urenco Ltd., a London-based uranium enrichment
company, as chief financial officer in January 2011. He
previously was a managing director at Wolfensohn & Co. and had
worked at McKinsey & Co. in Amsterdam and  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) ’s investment banking unit in  London .  Friso studied engineering at the  University of California 
at Berkeley from 1986 to 1988 and earned a degree in aerospace
engineering at Delft University of Technology in the Netherlands
in 1994. He received a master’s in economics from Erasmus
University in Rotterdam in 1995 and a master’s of business
administration from the European Institute of Business
Administration, or INSEAD, in Fontainebleau,  France , in 1997.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martijn van der Starre in Amsterdam at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Ludden at 
 jludden@bloomberg.net  