-- HealthStream Share Surge May Signal Takeover Potential: Atlanta Mover
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-02-24T21:18:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/healthstream-share-surge-may-signal-takeover-potential-atlanta-mover.html
HealthStream (HSTM)  Inc., a provider of
online continuing education for doctors, rose 3.4 percent after
a Craig-Hallum analyst said the company may be a takeover target
because it dominates the market.  HealthStream  climbed  to $22.11 at 4 p.m. New York time,
near the $22.55 record high closing price set this week. It’s a
business without regulatory risk that may enable larger software
companies to enter the health-care market, including London-
based Reed Elsevier Plc and  Santa Monica , California-based
Cornerstone OnDemand, said Matt Hewitt, an analyst at Craig-
Hallum Capital Group in  Minneapolis .  HealthStream surged  30 percent  in New York trading on Feb.
22 after the company reported fourth-quarter earnings rose 40
percent from a year earlier and forecast a 21 percent to 25
percent revenue increase for 2012. The stock jump gave the
Nashville, Tennessee-based company a market value of five times
revenue, placing it in the lower range of valuations within the
software-as-a-service market that’s been targeted for
acquisitions, Hewitt said.  “A takeover could be the end game, given the
attractiveness of the health-care vertical and the market
dominance of HealthStream,” said Hewitt, who has a “buy”
rating on the stock, by telephone.  The latest software-as-a-service company to be acquired was
SuccessFactors Inc. by  SAP (SAP)  AG for $3.4 billion, or 7.4 times
estimated sales.  Frist Connection  HealthStream’s chief executive officer is Robert Frist, Jr., nephew of former Senator  Bill Frist  and grandson of Thomas Frist, the founder of HCA Holdings Inc, the largest hospital
operator by revenue. HealthStream’s links in the health-care
area would be difficult for a company to duplicate on its own,
Hewitt said.  HealthStream provides training that helps doctors, nurses
and health workers become more efficient and incorporate new
technology. The company is growing as the government introduces
regulations and standards through the 2010 health overhaul that
push electronic records and accountable care organizations.  The overhaul will trim $157 billion in U.S. payments to
hospitals through 2019, according to estimates by the
 Congressional Budget Office .  The company declined to comment, Molly Condra, a
spokeswoman said by telephone.  HealthStream’s earnings on Feb. 22 beat analyst
expectations and sent shares up the most since 2003 to a record
$22.55. The shares retreated 5.2 percent yesterday to $21.38.  “I’m perplexed,” said Vince Colicchio, an analyst with
Noble Financial Group in  Boca Raton ,  Florida , who has a “hold”
rating on HealthStream. “Nothing really extraordinary happened
in the quarter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  