-- ECB’s Coeure Says Zero Interest Rate Poses ‘Significant Costs’
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-02-24T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/ecb-s-coeure-says-zero-interest-rate-poses-significant-costs-.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Benoit Coeure said a policy of zero or negative
interest rates create “significant costs” that aren’t needed
given the outlook for inflation.  “The costs of an anticipated protracted low-rate policy --
in terms of fueling risk taking, promoting an overhang of non-
performing loans and prolonging future imbalances -- can be
significant,” he said in a speech delivered in Miami on Feb. 19
and released by the Frankfurt-based ECB today.  The ECB held its benchmark  interest rate  at a record low of
1 percent this month as President  Mario Draghi  signaled the
economic outlook had improved. The ECB will allot its second
offering of three-year loans on Feb. 29 to relieve liquidity
strains in the region as officials work to contain fallout from
the sovereign debt crisis.  Calls for the central bank to put its key rate at zero or
lower as part of its crisis-fighting arsenal pose a risk that
banks “become addicted to central bank credit,” Coeure said.
“A switch to zero or negative interest rates bears some risks”
that are “warranted only in the face of clear downward risks to
 price stability , which today are not present in the euro area,”
he said.  He said the economy in the euro area will recover “very
gradually” this year while inflation will stay above 2 percent
“for several months to come.” Inflation held at 2.7 percent in
January, above the bank’s aim to keep annual consumer price
gains just below 2 percent.  Balance Sheets  Cutting borrowing costs to zero or less and leaving them
there for an extended period could drive intermediaries such as
money markets out of business and encourage lenders to dismantle
their trading operations, Coeure said. It may also discourage
banks from repairing balance sheets, or undermine their profits
and lead to a credit contraction.  “The belief that interest rates will stay low for long
periods might lead banks to make excessive liquidity promises
and increase the future need for low rates, and thus sow the
seeds of future crises,” Coeure said.  The central bank’s non-standard measures to battle
financial turmoil include providing unlimited long-term
liquidity through reverse repurchase agreements, where the
funding cost is determined “as economic conditions unfold,” he
said.  It is “crucial that the implementation of these measures
does not hamper the chances of reviving currently dysfunctional
market segments, such as the  interbank market ,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  