-- Nowotny Says He Doesn’t See Need for More ECB LTRO Measures
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-02-24T11:31:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/ecb-s-nowotny-says-he-doesn-t-see-need-for-further-ltro-measures.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Ewald Nowotny said he doesn’t think officials
will have to offer more three-year cash to euro-area banks after
the second batch of loans next week.  “We never pre-commit, but I do believe that the general
feeling in the ECB council is that we’ve set clear measures and
will wait to see the effect of these measures,” Nowotny said at
an event in Vienna today. “I personally don’t see any further
need for action” after the ECB’s second tranche of three-year
loans, which will be allotted on Feb. 29. Still, “we are able
to provide as much liquidity as is demanded,” he said.  Banks may next week tap the ECB for almost as much three-
year cash as they did in December in an operation that could
prolong a rally in bond markets. The European Commission said
yesterday that the region’s economy will experience a “mild
recession” this year, driven by the shrinking economies of
countries buffeted by the sovereign debt crisis.  While there are “some green shoots” in the euro-area
economy, “even a mild recession is a recession,” Nowotny said.
“That is a very unsatisfactory development, even if we see more
positive developments in some countries.”  Financial institutions will ask the ECB for 470 billion
euros ($629 billion) in three-year funds, the median of 28
estimates in a Bloomberg survey shows. That compares with the
record 489 billion euro take-up at the first tender on Dec. 21.
No further three-year operations are currently scheduled beyond
next week.  Italian and Spanish bonds have risen since the ECB’s first
three-year loan, suggesting banks are investing at least some of
the money in higher yielding assets.  Nowotny declined to comment on the outlook for the ECB’s
 main refinancing rate , saying “we never pre-commit.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  