-- ECB’s Weidmann Says Europe Must Be Ready If Debt Crisis Worsens
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-02-24T20:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/ecb-s-weidmann-says-europe-must-be-ready-if-debt-crisis-worsens.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Jens Weidmann said  Europe  must prepare for a
potential worsening of the euro region’s sovereign debt crisis
even after Greece secured a second bailout package this week.  “A crucial requirement now is to prepare for the
eventuality of a further escalation of the crisis by initiating
appropriate ring-fencing measures,” the Bundesbank President
said in a speech prepared for delivery in Mexico City today.
“The resilience of the banking system is to be increased by
imposing additional capital buffers” and leaders will decide in
March “whether it is necessary to increase” the firepower of
the region’s rescue funds “even further,” he said.  The region’s debt turmoil, which originated in Greece in
2010, has driven up bond yields in other euro countries and led
some investors to speculate about the potential for highly-
indebted countries to abandon the single currency.  Greece  must
deliver the fiscal and economic policies it promised to qualify
for earmarked assistance, Weidmann said before a two-day meeting
of finance officials from the world’s 20 biggest economies.  The comments come as Citigroup Inc. economists said in a
report today that  Portugal  may need a 50 percent cut in the
nominal value of its government debt this year or next to return
to sustainable public finances.  ‘No Guarantees’  “There are no guarantees that the path being taken will
lead to success,” German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
said in a Feb. 23 letter to lawmakers, referring to the Greek
bailout. “It may also not be the last time the German Bundestag
has to consider financial aid for Greece.”  Greece can’t be forced to comply with its adjustment
program, Weidmann said. Still, “it should be clear that no
further disbursements will be warranted if Greece fails to keep
its side of the bargain,” he said.  While European officials will push fellow Group of 20
nations to commit fresh cash to the  International Monetary Fund 
to help defuse the crisis, other countries, including the U.S.
and  Canada , say Europe must first strengthen its firewall to
prevent debt levels of countries such as Italy and  Spain  from
becoming unsustainable.  European leaders will meet in Brussels March 1-2 to review
the mechanics of the 500 billion-euro ($670 billion) permanent
rescue fund, the European Stability Mechanism. The fund, to be
implemented in July, one year earlier than originally planned,
was set up to aid European Union member states that need help
meeting debt payments.  Building a Firewall  While some officials and the European Central Bank favor
combining the permanent fund with the temporary European
Financial Stability Facility to produce a 750 billion-euro
firewall,  Germany  has yet to show its hand.  “The crisis cannot be resolved solely by throwing money at
it,” said Weidmann. “While money can buy us time to tackle the
crisis, it is imperative that we use that time in order to
address its root causes.”  Germany is doing a “great deal” to help euro-area
countries and “the bulk of the containment measures rely
heavily on Germany’s financial support and hence its economic
strength and fiscal soundness,” Weidmann said. Europe’s largest
economy will continue to bear “a disproportionately large
share” of the financing needed to shield the common currency by
virtue of its top  credit rating  and the confidence it enjoys
among investors, he said.  The impact of the debt crisis on the German economy has
been “rather limited” so far and growth should “pick up
soon,” Weidmann said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Mexico City at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Mexico City at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  