-- Hedge Fund 3 Degrees Said to Lose Challenge to Regulator’s Closure Order
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-02-24T07:53:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/hedge-fund-3-degrees-said-to-lose-challenge-to-regulator-s-closure-order.html
3 Degrees Asset Management, asked by
 Singapore ’s central bank to shutter its operations following
allegations that founder Moe Ibrahim diverted assets, lost a
legal bid to challenge the regulator’s order, according to two
people familiar with the decision.  3 Degrees’s application to overturn the decision by the
 Monetary Authority of Singapore  and the finance minister to
withdraw its  exempt fund manager status  was rejected by the
Singapore High Court, said the people, who weren’t authorized to
speak publicly about the decision. Justice Belinda Ang’s minutes
from the Feb. 23 closed hearing aren’t publicly available.  The Monetary Authority probed Singapore-based 3 Degrees
after one of its funds sued Indonesian-born Agus Anwar in 2008
to recover at least $40 million of debt. Anwar then claimed that
Ibrahim diverted $6.7 million from the fund to 3 Degrees, which
is wholly owned by Ibrahim. Withdrawing 3 Degrees’s exempt
status would send a “strong message of deterrence’ to others in
the industry, the regulator said in court papers.  Ibrahim and Ronald Falls Jr, the hedge fund’s general
counsel, didn’t respond to three e-mails seeking comment. They
weren’t available for comment, according to a woman who answered
a call to 3 Degrees’s office and gave her name only as Alicia. A
spokesman for Singapore’s central bank, didn’t respond to two e-
mails and three calls to her office requesting comment.  Risk Management Issues  ‘‘Regulations won’t go away,” said Han Ming Ho, a
Singapore-based partner who advises  hedge funds  at law firm
Clifford Chance LLP and wasn’t involved in the case.  “Fund managers will have to recognize and be comfortable
with” risk management and due diligence issues, he said.  3 Degrees, which focuses on distressed debt and managed
about $215 million as of Oct. 5, denied the allegations in its
lawsuit. The withdrawal of the fund’s status was put on hold,
pending the outcome of yesterday’s court hearing.  Even if there was such a transaction, it was neither
“illegal or improper,” 3 Degrees had said in its court
filings. The hedge fund manager had said a fine would have been
an appropriate punishment.  3 Degrees sued its former lawyer Ng Wee Chong in a separate
lawsuit, claiming he had failed in “handling all legal
aspects” related to the transactions. Ibrahim had called Ng a
“disgruntled employee” who was fired on his honeymoon.  Rising Star  Ibrahim spent seven years at  Lazard (LAZ)  Freres & Co. before
founding 3 Degrees, which focuses on distressed debt. He was
named one of the 20 Rising Stars of Hedge Funds by trade
publication Institutional Investor in 2007.  The regulator said in a July 14 letter to 3 Degrees that
there was a “clear conflict of interest” in the way the loans
were structured to mask the actual borrower and avoid disclosure
of a related party transaction, according to court papers it
filed.  Ibrahim abused his position of trust and authority, the
central bank said in its letter. Allowing 3 Degrees to continue
to operate would send the “wrong signal” to the financial
industry, the regulator said.  Fund managers with fewer than 30 qualified investors are
exempt from licensing and business conduct requirements under
Singapore’s Securities and Futures Act.  3 Degrees  has stopped
accepting new clients, according to the lawsuit.  3 Degrees said revoking the exempt status was “draconian”
and was based on “illogical, irrational and unreasonable”
statements and assumptions, according to its lawsuit.  “The authority would appear to be sending out a signal
that all it takes are strong allegations from a desperate, debt-
ridden party without conclusive evidence to corroborate these
allegations or a disgruntled employee for a withdrawal of an
exemption or license to occur,” Ibrahim had said in court
papers.  The case is 3 Degrees Asset Management Pte v Attorney
General and Monetary Authority of Singapore OS874/2011 in the
Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  