-- Medicare Audits Target Humana, UnitedHealth Plans Overpayment
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-02-24T21:15:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/medicare-audits-target-humana-unitedhealth-plans-overpayment.html
Humana Inc. (HUM) ,  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) 
and other businesses running Medicare managed-care plans may
have to refund the government as much as $370 million next year
if audits find the companies were overpaid.  About 11 percent of government payments to the health plans
were erroneous in 2011, the U.S. Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services said today without naming the companies.
Government auditors of 30 unspecified plans will examine whether
clinical records justify payments for medical services.  “We’re absolutely confident that this is a valid sample to
do these audits,” said  Jonathan Blum , deputy administrator of
Medicare, in a telephone interview.  About 25 percent of the 45 million Americans enrolled in
Medicare belong to private Medicare Advantage plans, which are
paid a fixed fee to provide the program’s traditional insurance
benefits along with extras such as gym memberships and
eyeglasses.  UnitedHealth, based in  Minnetonka ,  Minnesota , had the most
Medicare Advantage customers in the fourth quarter, with 2.2
million, followed by Louisville, Kentucky-based Humana, with 1.9
million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The government estimates it may have overpaid the industry
as much as $12.4 billion last year. The 11 percent error rate
for private plans compares with an 8.6 percent rate in
traditional Medicare, the government said.  Each audit will examine the medical records of 200 patients
and calculate the percentage of improper payments, Blum said.
Medicare will recoup any overpayment by reducing future payouts
to the companies, he said.  Medicare decided to only audit one year’s worth of claims,
instead of looking back as far as 2007 as it initially proposed
a year ago, Blum said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  