-- Privacy Group Can’t Force FTC Google Action, Judge Rules
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-02-24T19:39:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/legal-challenge-to-google-privacy-policy-dismissed-by-judge.html
A legal challenge to  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
privacy policy was dismissed by a judge who said she lacked
authority to order the Federal Trade Commission to take action
against the world’s most popular search engine.  U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jackson in a ruling today in
Washington said Congress didn’t give federal courts jurisdiction
to monitor FTC enforcement of consent decrees.  The Electronic Privacy Information Center, or EPIC, sued
Feb. 8, claiming Google’s planned changes to its privacy policy
violate a consent order requiring the company to protect
consumer data.  “EPIC -- along with many other individuals and
organizations -- has advanced serious concerns that may well be
legitimate,” Jackson wrote in her ruling. “The FTC, which has
advised the court that the matter is under review, may
ultimately decide to institute an enforcement action.”  Google, based in  Mountain View , California, announced plans
on Jan. 24 to unify privacy policies for 60 services and
products including YouTube videos and Android software for
mobile phones. The move, set to take effect March 1, would
simplify conditions for user agreements, the company said.  EPIC said the plan would allow Google to combine more
information about users, reduce users’ control of their own data
and give more personal information to advertisers. Google has
denied that the new policy will divulge any more information
about users to third parties.  Notice of Appeal  “The judge did not reach the merits of the EPIC
complaint,”  Marc Rotenberg , EPIC’s executive director, said in
an e-mail. The group filed a notice of appeal with the court
today.  Rotenberg said his group will also ask Representative Mary Bono Mack, a  California  Republican, to hold a public hearing on
Google’s privacy policy.  “We take our settlement orders very seriously, but only
the FTC and not outside parties should be able to enforce
them,” Claudia Bourne Farrell, a commission spokeswoman, said
in an e-mail. “We are pleased that the court has rejected
EPIC’s unwarranted attempt to interrupt the FTC’s careful
consideration of the announced changes in Google’s privacy
policies.”  Chris Gaither , a Google spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement that the new policy will make the company’s privacy
practices easier to understand and reflects the company’s desire
to create a “seamless experience” for its signed-in users.  ‘Most Extensive’  “We’ve undertaken the most extensive notification effort
in Google’s history, and we’re continuing to offer choice and
control over how people use our services,” Gaither said.  The FTC’s 2011 settlement with Google over privacy, which
barred sharing user data outside the company without clear
permission, stemmed from a complaint filed by EPIC in 2010.  Under the consent decree announced March 30, Google agreed
it used deceptive tactics and violated its own privacy policies
when it introduced its Buzz social-networking service in 2010.  The 20-year settlement bars Google from misrepresenting how
it handles information and obliges the company to follow
policies that protect consumer data in new products.  The National Association of  Attorneys General  sent a
letter Feb. 22 to Google Chief Executive Officer  Larry Page 
criticizing the new privacy policy as failing to give consumers
choices about pooling their data. The letter was signed by 36
attorneys general.  The officials, Republicans and Democrats, asked to meet
with Page to address their privacy concerns.  Google’s new privacy policy is also under review by data-
protection agencies in  Europe , which have asked the company to
delay introducing the new policy pending that review. Google has
said it doesn’t intend to suspend the new policy.  The case is Electronic Privacy Information Center v.
Federal Trade Commission, 12-00206, U.S. District Court,
 District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  