-- Eiffage Rises Most in 5 Years as Profit Seen Rising: Paris Mover
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-02-24T14:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/eiffage-rises-most-in-5-years-as-profit-seen-rising-paris-mover.html
Eiffage SA (FGR) , France’s third-largest
construction company, jumped the most in almost five years after
predicting cost cuts and a record backlog will boost profits and
trim debt in 2012.  Shares of the company, based in Asnieres-sur-Seine near the
French capital, rose as much as 14 percent in Paris trading, the
most  since  March 2007, and were up 12 percent to 28.54 euros as
of 2:54 p.m.  “The guidance targets are reassuring,” said Gregoire
Thibault, an analyst at Natixis in Paris, in a research note in
which he upgraded the stock to “buy” from “neutral.” “We’re
confident that the group’s contracting margins will rebound as
of 2012.”  Eiffage’s margins are benefiting from a record backlog of
contracts, the closure of loss-making units in the  Czech
Republic ,  Belgium  and the Netherlands, and a more selective
approach to road works orders in France, Chief Executive Officer
Pierre Berger said. The closure of subsidiaries will save more
than 10 million euros this year, the CEO said.  Net income , which dropped 12 percent to 205 million euros
($275 million) last year, will rise in 2012 as revenue will
climb by 2 percent this year to 14 billion euros.  Last year’s operating margin at the company’s public works
unit narrowed to 0.2 percent of sales, hurt by provisions on a
contract to build a soccer stadium in Lille. Margins at
Eiffage’s building and metal works units were little changed,
and profitability was up at its energy infrastructure division
as it slashed costs.  Stadium Burden  Losses stemming from the stadium, to be completed by
September, “are significant,” the CEO said at a press
conference today, while declining to give an amount. “Without
them, net profit would have climbed” in 2011.  “In 2012, we’re expecting an increase in the operating
margin and net profit despite the increase in financial interest
tied to the refinancing of the debt of toll roads,” Berger
said.  The company’s debt fell by 568 million euros to 12.6
billion euros last year as the company decreased its working
capital requirement and sold its stake in a company that
operates jails in  France . It plans to trim its debt by 2 billion
euros in five years, helped by rising profits and further asset
sales from 2014, the CEO said.  Eiffage’s Eiffarie unit, which controls the APRR toll-road
company, will seek to pay back a 2.8 billion-euro structured
credit term loan “as soon as possible” because it’s
“expensive,” Max Roche, the head of Eiffage’s concessions,
said yesterday.  APRR may sell bonds in coming years to help repay the
Eiffarie loan, Roche told journalists today.  Eiffage remains in litigation over 175 million euros of
extra works and future maintenance of a hospital it’s built in
the south of Paris, the CEO said.  It and Spanish partner Actividades de Construccion &
Servicios SA are also seeking to recoup 348 million euros on the
construction of a rail line. A ruling is due at the end of 2012,
which may have a positive effect on Eiffage’s 2013 accounts,
Berger said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois De Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  