-- Telecom Italia Posts Earnings Matching Estimates on Latin American Growth
-- B y   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e   a n d   D a n   L i e f g r e e n
-- 2012-02-24T07:54:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/telecom-italia-profit-rises-on-latin-america-growth-sales-top-estimates.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  reduced its
dividend payout for 2011 earnings as Italy’s biggest phone
company focuses on cutting debt. The company forecast stable
earnings and revenue this year.  Telecom Italia’s board proposed dividends of about 900
million euros ($1.2 billion) for 2011, down from 1.2 billion
euros in 2010, “in light of the recent worsening of the
macroeconomic climate and the goal to maintain the  credit
rating ,” the Milan-based company said in a statement.  “Such a dividend policy contributes to confirming the path
towards debt reduction outlined in the previous business plan,”
Telecom Italia said.  Telecom Italia and other former phone monopolies in Europe,
such as Spain’s  Telefonica SA (TEF) , are suffering in their home
markets because of weak economies amid the sovereign debt
crisis.  “Debt reduction is now the main focus to avoid a rating
downgrade at all costs,” Mathieu Robilliard, an analyst at
Exane BNP Paribas, wrote in a Feb. 21 note. “With a tough 2012
ahead in Italy, Telecom Italia must continue to cut costs to
preserve its free  cash flow .”  Telecom Italia declined 2.4 percent this year before today
to 81.2 euro cents in Milan trading, compared with an 8.1
percent gain in the benchmark FTSE MIB Index.  Telecom Italia said full-year profit before some items
climbed 7.3 percent, helped by growth in  Latin America , and
forecast “broadly stable” earnings and revenue this year.  Growth Abroad  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization were 12.3 billion euros, compared with 11.4 billion
euros a year earlier, the company said in a statement today.
Revenue climbed 8.7 percent to 29.96 billion euros. Analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg had  estimated  profit of 12.3 billion euros
on sales of 29.8 billion euros.  To spur growth abroad, Telecom Italia’s Brazilian unit  Tim
Participacoes SA (TIMP3)  in July agreed to buy AES Atimus Group to add
network capacity in  Sao Paulo  and  Rio de Janeiro . Tim, which
surpassed billionaire Carlos Slim’s America Movil SAB in July to
become Brazil’s second-largest wireless operator, said Feb. 16
that fourth-quarter net revenue grew 19 percent and Ebitda rose
8.7 percent. Telecom Italia also controls  Telecom Argentina SA (TECO2) ,
the country’s second-largest phone company.  Telecom Italia’s adjusted net debt at the end of 2011 was
30.4 billion euros, compared with 29.9 billion euros at the end
of September. The company had forecast adjusted net debt to
total about 29.5 billion euros at the end of last year,
excluding the effects of Italy’s auction of frequencies for so-
called long-term evolution, or LTE, technology in the domestic
market. Telecom Italia is paying 1.2 billion euros for the
spectrum. Including the payment, adjusted net debt was projected
to be 30.7 billion euros at the end of December.  Fourth-quarter organic Ebitda rose 3.3 percent to 3.1
billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  