-- Mentor of Central Bankers Fischer Rues Complacency as Economy Accelerates
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r ,   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   M a t t h e w   W i n k l e r
-- 2012-02-24T01:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/mentor-of-central-bankers-fischer-rues-complacency-as-economy-accelerates.html
Stanley Fischer in December 2008
connected the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and
Bernard Madoff’s ruinous $20 billion fraud to a false sense of
security that brought the world to the brink of depression.
Three years later, he rues the same creeping complacency.  “Nobody should be relaxing at this stage,” Fischer,
governor of the Bank of  Israel , said in a Feb. 20 interview in
his Jerusalem office. “It’s important that we keep asking what
can go wrong next, because something will go wrong somewhere,
sometime, and it’s important to try to anticipate where and what
it might be.”  Fischer, 68, offered his warning the day before the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  topped 13,000 for the first time since
2008 and crude oil jumped to a nine-month high amid mounting
optimism about the global outlook. Economists at Citigroup Inc.,
where Fischer worked as vice chairman until moving to Israel in
2005, raised their forecast on Feb. 22 for expansion worldwide
this year to 2.4 percent from 2.3 percent.  “It’s too early to tell” if the worst is over, said
Fischer, who is in his second term overseeing Israel’s $245
billion  economy . “There remains the problem of restoring
European growth, which hasn’t been dealt with yet, and it’s very
hard to see how to deal with it.”  Fischer’s views carry international clout because of a
four-decade career spanning academia, banking and policy-making.
As a professor at the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology , he
was Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s thesis adviser
and taught European Central Bank President Mario Draghi before
helping to end financial crises in  Mexico ,  Russia  and  Asia  as
the International Monetary Fund’s No. 2 official in the 1990s.  ‘Looking Much Better’  While the  U.S. economy  is “looking much better” and it’s
“pretty clear” Bernanke has been a success, Fischer questioned
why the Fed is signaling it has no plans to raise rates in the
near future.  “I’m interested in why the Fed’s forecasts appear to be
more cautious than that of most private forecasters,” Fischer
said. Bernanke’s pledge to hold the benchmark federal funds rate
 close to zero  at least through late 2014 was a “pretty brave
and pretty strong step.”  The former IMF official said  Greece  faces a “very tough
situation,” even after securing a 130 billion-euro ($174
billion) bailout this week in return for fresh austerity
measures. “One sympathizes enormously with what the Greek
people are going through,” he said.  Madoff Ponzi Scheme  Fischer, whose term ends in 2015, often has warned and
acted against complacency. In a December 2008 interview, he
likened Madoff’s Ponzi scheme, which defrauded investors of an
estimated $20 billion, to the global financial crisis, saying
that sophisticated investors missed warning signs in both cases
that something was awry.  Two months earlier, he had beaten the Fed and ECB by a day
in cutting  interest rates  following Lehman’s collapse, reducing
the base rate by half a percentage point to 3.75 percent. The
rate went as low as 0.5 percent, then in August 2009, Fischer
was the first central bank governor to raise rates in response
to signs of a financial recovery and to call for a “radical
restructuring” of global finance. The rate is currently 2.5
percent.  “One of my lessons from the last crisis is about the
importance of active supervision,” he said in the interview.  On that score,  Europe  failed by ignoring the risks in its
banking system and then assuming it could defuse its debt crisis
without IMF assistance, he said. He praised his former student
Draghi for issuing emergency loans to banks for three years and
cutting the ECB’s  key rate  to 1 percent within two months of
taking office Nov. 1.  ‘Brave’ Draghi  “The fact that  Mario Draghi  came in and the ECB cut
interest rates twice -- boom, boom; I thought he’d wait --
indicates he is brave,” Fischer said. “He sent the right
signal to the market.”  Fischer’s global view was formed by a life that took him
from  Africa , where he was born, to cities including London and
 Boston  before Israel.  His father, Philip, was a Latvian-born Jew who migrated in
1926 to Northern Rhodesia, now Zambia, and ran a general store
in a small village. Fischer’s mother, Ann, was the daughter of
Lithuanian immigrants who had moved to  South Africa .  Fischer’s connection with Israel dates back decades. He was
a member of Habonim, a Zionist youth group, along with Rhoda
Keet, his future wife, with whom he has three sons. In the early
1960s, he spent six months on a kibbutz on Israel’s
Mediterranean coastal plain, where he combined learning Hebrew
with manual labor. He conducts his official business in Hebrew
with an accent that divulges his upbringing in southern Africa.  MIT Scholarship  Fischer earned his undergraduate and master’s degrees at
the London School of Economics. He then won a scholarship to
MIT, in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , where he studied under future
Nobel laureate economist Paul Samuelson, whose picture hangs on
a wall in his office alongside an image of Theodor Herzl, the
father of modern political Zionism.  During Fischer’s watch, the stock market in Israel, whose
7.8 million population is about the size of  Switzerland ’s, was
upgraded to developed-market status by MSCI Inc. in May 2010.
The same month, the 63-year-old country was accepted into the
 Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development . About 60
Israeli companies are traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market, the
most of any nation outside  North America  after  China .  Fischer, who keeps fit by running on the beach, says his
most difficult decision as governor was to intervene in the
exchange-rate market, breaking a decade-long tradition.  Shekel Depreciation  Between March 2008 and last summer, the  Bank of Israel 
bought foreign currency to help moderate gains in the shekel and
support exporters, more than doubling reserves to a record $78.1
billion in August 2011 from $28.5 billion. The shekel has
depreciated by about 5 percent against the dollar in the past
six months.  While the IMF criticized the intervention in a November
2010 report, saying it “undermines the credibility of the
floating exchange-rate regime,” it said this month the policy
“was warranted by the exceptional circumstances” of recent
years.  The buying spree helped cushion Israel’s economy, which
recovered from the 2008 crisis faster than most advanced
nations, with estimated gross domestic product growth of 
4.8 percent last year, more than triple the average pace for
the 34 OECD nations. Growth has exceeded this average every
year since 2004.  ‘Less Opposition’  Fischer, who oversees an economy smaller than Missouri’s,
has been outspoken on encouraging ultra-orthodox Jewish men to
join the workforce to sustain the country’s prosperity. He said
there is now “less opposition” in the ultra-orthodox
community, which represents about 10 percent of Israel’s
population. An estimated 60 percent of these men don’t have jobs
and instead spend their time studying religious texts.  “It’s definitely changing,” Fischer said. “The men are
beginning to go out to study secular subjects and to work in the
formal labor force.”  The country’s High Court of Justice this week ruled as
unconstitutional a law that allows seminary students to
indefinitely defer army service, a key step to integration into
the workforce. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said his
government will formulate a new law that will lead to a more-
just distribution of the burden across society.  Better Returns  Israel has produced better risk-adjusted returns than all
other developed stock markets in the past decade as the
technology-driven economy attracted investors. The Bloomberg
Riskless Return Ranking shows the Tel Aviv  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  returned
7.6 percent in the 10 years ended Feb. 17, after adjusting for
volatility, the highest among 24 developed-nation benchmark
indexes.  Still, Fischer, ever cautious, said he’s “a little
discouraged,” at how the global economy is unfolding in the
21st century “because it’s taking so long to fix our current
problems.”  “The U.S. has always risen to the occasion when it has had
to,” Fischer said. “I hope and expect that happens again.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Winkler in New York at 
 mwinkler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  