-- Tepco Bailout Largest in Japan Since Rescue of Banks
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2012-02-24T07:43:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/tepco-bailout-largest-in-japan-since-rescue-of-banking-industry.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  is set to
receive a government bailout that may cost as much as 11
trillion yen ($137 billion) after the Fukushima nuclear
disaster, the largest in  Japan  since the rescue of the banking
industry in the 1990s.  Japan’s government included 2 trillion yen in this year’s
budget for the Nuclear Damage Liability Facilitation Fund, the
bailout vehicle for the utility known as Tepco. Part of that
allocation can be used for the purchase of a stake in Tepco
being considered by the government. The government plans to
budget 4 trillion yen in the next fiscal year and has issued 5
trillion yen of so called delivery bonds, which the state fund
can cash in for financial aid to Tepco. The funds redeemed can
only be used to compensate those affected by the disaster.  The utility may have to pay 4.5 trillion yen by March next
year to compensate people who lost their homes and livelihoods
because of radiation released from the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear station. Decommissioning costs for the three reactors
that had meltdowns after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami may
run to 1.15 trillion yen, according to a government estimate.
Extra fuel costs this fiscal year may total 760 billion yen,
Tepco has said.  Japan pumped 12.8 trillion yen of public funds into its
banks since 1998 after the implosion of the asset-inflated
bubble economy left them overloaded with bad loans, according to
data from the  Deposit Insurance Corp. of Japan .  Resona Holdings
Inc. (8308)  was the biggest bank-recipient of taxpayer aid, getting 3.1
trillion yen since 1999, the figures show.  The following is a table outlining government support for
Tepco and the company’s potential liabilities and debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  