-- Merck KGaA to Cut Employment After Drug Failures
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-02-24T17:05:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/merck-kgaa-to-cut-employment-after-drug-failures.html
Merck KGaA (MRK)  plans to cut jobs across
its drug and chemical businesses after setbacks in developing
medicines for cancer and multiple sclerosis.  Executives will begin consulting with worker
representatives on the reductions, Darmstadt, Germany-based
Merck said today in a  statement . It’s too soon to announce
detailed plans for reducing costs or jobs, which will take place
at all businesses and in all regions, the family-controlled
company said.  The cuts are needed to improve margins as Merck’s top-
selling multiple sclerosis drug Rebif faces increased
competition from newer therapies such as Novartis AG’s Gilenya,
said  Jack Scannell , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. in
London. The company has also had setbacks in drugs developed by
the Serono unit it bought for 16.6 billion Swiss francs ($18.5
billion) in 2007.  “The Serono pipeline has completely and utterly failed,”
Scannell said by phone today. “They’re left with a margin
structure and cost base which simply isn’t commensurate with the
volume of sales they have.” He recommends buying the stock on
optimism Merck’s new management will “turn things around.”  Merck hired Matthias Zachert as chief financial officer
last year from  Lanxess AG (LXS) , a German chemical company. Stefan Oschmann, formerly head of  emerging markets  at Merck & Co.,
replaced Elmar Schnee as head of pharmaceuticals.  ’Unprecedented Market Shifts’  “Over the next two years, Merck needs to address
unprecedented market shifts, increasing competition in key
product areas and existing inefficiencies in its own
organization to ensure the long-term success of its business
model,” Chief Executive Officer Karl-Ludwig Kley said in the
statement.  Merck fell 1.5 percent to 79.48 euros in  Frankfurt , the
biggest drop since Jan. 12, giving the company a market value of
17.3 billion euros ($23.3 billion).  Merck KGaA (MRK)  isn’t related to
Merck & Co. of the U.S. The German company, which reports 2011
earnings on March 6, employs about 40,000 people, according to
its  website .  Cladribine, Erbitux  In June, the company dropped development of the multiple
sclerosis pill cladribine, which had been its most promising
experimental medicine. In July 2009, European regulators
rejected its cancer drug Erbitux for use in lung tumors.  The company is still studying Erbitux in lung tumors.
Oschmann told JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts in January that the
chances of getting the Erbitux approved for that use in  Europe 
were less than 50 percent.  “They need to improve returns in the pharma business,”
Adrian Howd, an analyst at Berenberg Bank in  London , said in a
telephone interview today. “There’s scope for significant
margin expansion there.” He  recommends  buying the shares.  In addition to Serono, Merck bought Millipore Corp., a U.S.
supplier of materials and equipment to biotechnology companies,
for $6 billion in 2010. The company is also the world’s biggest
maker of  liquid crystals  used in displays for flat-screen
televisions, tablet computers, telephones and other electronics.  Merck is 70 percent owned by the Merck family through the
parent company  E. Merck KG . The roughly 130 family members
choose representatives who hire, fire and set compensation for
company executives, according to the company’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 