-- Merkel Lawmakers Attach Conditions to Greek Aid Package, Reject Bigger ESM
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-02-24T15:48:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/merkel-lawmakers-attach-conditions-to-greek-aid-package-reject-bigger-esm.html
Lawmakers from Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s coalition want to tie German support for Greece’s
second bailout to conditions, including the completion of a debt
swap by private investors, when they vote on the plan in
parliament on Feb. 27.  Members of the governing parties are drafting a measure
intended to press Greece to fulfill commitments under the 130
billion-euro ($175 billion) aid package agreed by euro-area
finance ministers on Feb. 20, Free Democratic lawmaker Otto Fricke said today. Lawmakers are also demanding clarity on the
International Monetary Fund’s share of the bailout, he said.  “We need assurances on these points,”  Norbert Barthle ,
the budget spokesman in parliament for Merkel’s  Christian
Democrats , said in an interview. “We will say that the German
parliament can approve aid only with the proviso that these
conditions are met and bound by Greek law.”  By taking a firm stand on  Greece , lawmakers may strengthen
Merkel’s position at a two-day meeting of European Union
leaders, starting on March 1. The chancellor is scheduled to
address parliament in Berlin hours before traveling to the
summit and to meet other leaders of the 17-nation euro area for
separate talks in Brussels on March 2, German government
spokesman Steffen Seibert said today.  ‘No Guarantees’  German parliamentarians are likely to back aid for Greece
because two opposition parties, the  Social Democrats  and Greens,
intend to support the government, Barthle said. Merkel’s
coalition of Christian Democrats and Free Democrats has 330
seats in the 620-member lower house, or Bundestag. Finnish and
Dutch lawmakers are also due to vote on the bailout next week.  “There are no guarantees that the path being taken will
lead to success,” Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said in a
letter to lawmakers dated Feb. 23. “It may also not be the last
time the German Bundestag has to consider financial aid for
Greece.”  The draft resolution by coalition lawmakers reflects German
weariness at contributing the most of any country to bailouts
for Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  and the government’s reluctance
to expand  Europe ’s backstop for future fiscal emergencies beyond
its 500 billion-euro ceiling.  German Limits  Calls to strengthen crisis defenses by combining Europe’s
temporary and permanent rescue funds have come from European
Central Bank Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen and IMF head
Christine Lagarde. The March 1-2 summit will deliver a
“significant reinforcement of the euro-area firewall,”
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who chairs the
region’s group of finance ministers, said on Feb. 21.  “ Germany ’s engagement has limits,” the parliamentary
draft resolution says. It urges Merkel to resist calls for joint
euro-area bonds and warns that taking on additional risks for
the sake of European solidarity must “always” be weighed
against “the sustainability of our own state finances.”  “Fatigue is setting in in Germany,” Fricke said. Sixty-
six percent of Germans question Greeks’ willingness to endure
austerity, and 46 percent say the country should default,
according to a Feb. 7-9 FG Wahlen poll for ZDF television.  Germans tend to interpret the difficulties of debt-stricken
countries in reducing their deficits as a “lack of will,”
Ulrike Guerot and Sebastian Dullien, analysts at the London-
based European  Council on Foreign Relations , said in a paper
published today. “Bailouts are seen as a genuine threat. Rescue
packages are, at best, a necessary evil.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net 
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  