-- Merrill Lynch Advisers Can Sue Over Bias as a Group, Appeals Court Rules
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2012-02-24T18:22:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/merrill-lynch-advisers-can-sue-over-bias-as-a-group-appeals-court-rules.html
Black Merrill Lynch financial
advisers suing for discrimination can pursue their case as a
group, an appeals court ruled, reversing a lower-court decision.  The U.S. Appeals Court panel in  Chicago  issued its ruling
today. The court said allowing class treatment will prevent
courts from having to decide in individual trials whether the
challenged practices by Merrill Lynch, now part of  Bank of
America Corp. , were illegal.  “We have trouble seeing the downside of the limited class-
action treatment that we think would be appropriate in this
case,” Circuit Judge Richard A. Posner wrote for the unanimous
three-judge panel.  Broker George McReynolds of Nashville,  Tennessee , sued in
2005, alleging Merrill Lynch’s practices and procedures favored
white financial advisers over their black counterparts,
impairing their ability to make comparable incomes.  McReynolds, along with other plaintiffs who joined the case
after he filed it, sought to represent about 700 advisers and
trainees who worked in the firm’s Global Private Client unit
since January 2001.  “We disagree with the ruling and we are still evaluating
the decision but believe that the ruling does not fundamentally
change our views that the allegations lack merit,”  Shirley Norton , a spokeswoman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank
of America, said in an e-mail.  U.S. District Judge Robert W. Gettleman in Chicago in
August 2010 rejected the bid by McReynolds and 16 other advisers
for certification of the case as a class-action, or group,
lawsuit.  The case is McReynolds v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner &
Smith Inc., 11-3639,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Seventh
Circuit (Chicago), and 05-cv-6583, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in New York at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  