-- Tesla Says Blogger’s Battery Post Sparked ‘Irrational’ Fear
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-02-24T21:03:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/tesla-says-blogger-sparked-irrational-fear-with-battery-claim.html
Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , the maker of
electric cars run by entrepreneur Elon Musk, said a blog post
asserting Roadster batteries are at risk of failing if owners
don’t keep the cars plugged in stoked an “irrational” fear.  “A single blogger is spreading a rumor about electric
vehicles becoming inoperable,” a condition referred to as
“bricking,” the  Palo Alto , California-based company said today
on its website. “‘Bricking’ is an irrational fear based on
limited information and a misunderstanding of Tesla’s battery
system.”  Tesla was responding to a  Feb. 21  post on a blog called the
Understatement, which said if the battery in the Roadster
electric car “is ever totally discharged, the owner is left
with what Tesla describes as a ‘brick’: a completely immobile
vehicle that cannot be started or even pushed down the street.”
At that point, a $40,000 battery pack replacement may be
required, according to the Understatement, which cited no one.  Scrutiny of Tesla’s technology comes as the carmaker
prepares to sell its first wholly U.S.-built vehicle, the
electric Model S sedan, starting in July. The company, named for
inventor Nikola Tesla, this month also showed a prototype of the
Model X, an electric crossover vehicle that arrives in 2013.  Tesla fell 2.3 percent to $33.75 at the close in  New York .
The shares gained 18 percent this year.  Instructions to Owners  “You’d really have to not use the vehicle for an extended
period for this to be an issue.” said  David Friedman , a senior
engineer for the Union of Concerned Scientists, an environmental
advocacy group. In such cases, “it raises the question: Why did
you buy an electric vehicle if you aren’t going to use it?” he
said.  Tesla owners should keep Roadsters plugged in, both to
recharge the pack for driving range and to keep “key systems
within the car functioning properly,” the company said today.
The vehicle warns owners when the car’s state of charge is
falling too low.  Software in newer Roadster models is designed to contact
the company, which in turn alerts owners who discharge the
batteries too deeply, Tesla said. The oldest Roadsters, on the
road since 2008, take more than two months to fully discharge if
not plugged in, the company said.  Nissan, Toyota  “A Model S battery parked with 50 percent charge would
approach full discharge only after about 12 months,” the
company said today.  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , seller of all-electric Leaf hatchbacks,
said in a statement the lithium-ion battery pack it uses “will
never discharge completely, thanks to an advanced battery
management system designed to protect the battery from damage.”  The Leaf’s warranty booklet cautions owners against
“leaving your vehicle for over 14 days where the lithium-ion
battery reaches a zero or near zero state of charge,”  Katherine Zachary , a company spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , which this year is to sell electric
RAV4 crossovers using Tesla-supplied batteries and motors, said
that model will “feature multiple safeguards to avoid full
battery depletion,” said Jana Hartline, a company spokeswoman.  Both Hartline and  John Hanson , a Toyota spokesman, declined
to elaborate on those steps. Toyota is an  investor  in Tesla.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  