-- EU Carbon Allowances Head for Weekly Fall After Record Surge
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 2012-02-24T17:54:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/eu-carbon-allowances-head-for-weekly-fall-after-record-surge.html
European Union carbon dioxide
permits posted a second week of gains after they surged a record
17 percent last week.  EU carbon for December rose 1.7 percent this week on
continued speculation that lawmakers will take measures to
support prices. Allowances jumped last week and traded at their
highest in three months after lawmakers said they may support
amendments to energy law to allow withholding emission
allowances from future auctions.  Permits rose 57 cents, or 6.4 percent, today to 9.43 euros
($12.70) a metric ton on  London ’s ICE Futures Europe exchange.
That’s the biggest one-day jump since Feb. 16, the data show.  Carbon has jumped 22 percent in the year to date, compared
with 8 percent for U.K. gas for summer. United Nations emission
credits for December advanced 2.6 percent this week to 5.05
euros today. That’s up 20 percent so far this year.  European Union countries will next month discuss
restrictions on another type of United Nations emissions
permits, known as Assigned Amount Units, after 2012. The
discussions may include limits on sales and the use of revenue
from excess rights, according to a draft EU document.  “The market is simply not grasping the importance of this
issue,”  Andrei Marcu , head of the Centre for European Policy
Studies’ Carbon Market Forum said in a statement. He said this
is the beginning of the debate for setting aside permits within
the United Nations Framework Convention on  Climate Change .  “This is a very serious matter with implications for
progress on defining new market mechanisms,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  