-- EU Discussions on Dexia Aid to Be ‘Complex,’ Almunia Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-02-24T15:21:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/eu-discussions-on-dexia-aid-to-be-complex-almunia-says-1-.html
Joaquin Almunia , the European
Union’s competition chief, said negotiations on the
restructuring of  Dexia SA (DEXB)  with the French and Belgian
governments will be “complex.”  Almunia said in a speech in Brussels today that he will
begin talks on the bank’s fate after he receives proposals from
the national authorities by the end of next month.  “We are about to open  complex discussions  about its
restructuring or winding down once we receive the proposals from
the French and Belgian authorities before the end of March,”
Almunia said.  Dexia, based in Brussels and Paris, is being broken up
after losing access to short-term funding. The bank said this
week that disposal losses, additional writedowns on Greek bonds
and a slide in the value of other government debt depleted
 shareholders’ equity .  The bank yesterday reported a  record loss  of 11.6 billion
euros ($15.5 billion) for 2011, compared with profit of 723
million euros for the prior year. Dexia’s own funds dropped to a
negative 2.02 billion euros from 1.13 billion euros at the end
of September.  “For state aid, we depend on the cooperation of
authorities,” Almunia told reporters after the meeting. “We
cannot invent a restructuring plan, we need to await what they
will propose.”  ‘Unfinished Business’  On other state-aid cases the commission has “unfinished
business” with  Bayerische Landesbank , the German state-owned
lender “that has still to agree on its restructuring,” Almunia
said. “Now maybe we are in a time of more constructive” talks
with BayernLB, he said.  Almunia urged regulators to support the European Banking
Authority, which he said was “needed” to handle and contain
future financial crises.  “I still have this feeling that the national supervisors
in many quarters are still trying to keep all the competences
and trying to weaken the weak position of the very young
European Banking Authority,” Almunia said. Financial
supervision needs to be “reinforced” at the EU level, he said.  Almunia said he hoped that proposal from  Michel Barnier ,
the EU’s financial services chief, on handling  bank failures ,
would be published “in a few months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  