-- EU May Renew Levies on Bottle Material From Asia; Korea Spared
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-02-24T09:08:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/eu-may-renew-levies-on-bottle-material-from-asia-korea-spared.html
The European Union threatened to
renew tariffs against five Asian nations on a chemical used by
plastic-bottle mold makers such as  Resilux SA (RES)  and bottlers
including  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  while ending a levy against  South Korea .  The EU said it would review whether to let lapse the duties
on polyethylene terephthalate, which is also used in plastic
films and fibers, from  India ,  Indonesia ,  Malaysia , Taiwan and
Thailand. The 12-year-old import taxes punish exporters in these
countries for selling polyethylene terephthalate in  Europe  below
cost, a practice known as dumping.  The review “will determine whether the expiry of the
measures would be likely, or unlikely, to lead to a continuation
or recurrence of dumping and recurrence of injury,” the
European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s trade authority in
Brussels, said today in the  Official Journal . A regular
prolongation of the levies would be for five years.  The anti-dumping duties as high as 200.90 euros ($269) a
metric ton had been due to expire next week following an initial
renewal in 2007 and will now stay in place during the probe,
which can last as long as 15 months. The EU today also opened an
 expiration review  of separate anti-subsidy duties against India
on polyethylene terephthalate.  The anti-dumping duties are as much as 200.90 euros a ton
on India, up to 187.70 euros on Indonesia, as high as 160.10
euros on Malaysia, up to 143.40 euros on Taiwan -- depending on
the company -- and 83.20 euros on Thailand. The levy against
 Korea  that is expiring amounts to 148.30 euros a ton, from which
four Korean producers including  Honam Petrochemical Corp. (011170)  had
been exempted. The anti-subsidy duties against India are as high
as 106.50 euros a ton.  Polyethylene Terephthalate  The reviews of the measures against India, Indonesia,
Malaysia, Taiwan and Thailand result from a Nov. 25, 2011
request by a group on behalf of European producers that account
for more than half the EU’s output of polyethylene
terephthalate, according the commission. It didn’t identify any
EU producers.  When renewing the duties against the six Asian nations in
2007, the EU identified Spain’s  La Seda de Barcelona SA  and
Novapet SA as among the European manufacturers of polyethylene
terephthalate. In unfair-trade cases against other countries
involving the same product since then, the EU continued to
identify Novapet as a European producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  