-- EU’s Sanctions Against Iran Hindering Japanese, Chinese Oil-Tanker Cover
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-02-24T13:44:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/eu-s-iran-sanctions-curb-cover-on-crude-tankers-japan-china-insurers-say.html
Chinese and Japanese groups that
insure ships against risks such as oil spills said European
Union sanctions limit their ability to cover tankers hauling
 Iran ’s crude, raising speculation governments may intervene.  The  Japan  Ship Owners’ Mutual Protection & Indemnity
Association and the  China  Shipowners Mutual Assurance
Association are reinsured through the London-based International
Group of P&I Clubs, meaning they are indirectly affected by EU
sanctions approved Jan. 23, the organizations said. Both groups
say they are the largest insurers for ships in their respective
countries, the two biggest importers of Iranian oil.  “The question now is, will the Chinese and Japanese
governments get involved and subsidize insurance or guarantee
insurance,” Mike Roderick, a partner at international trade law
firm Clyde & Co. in  London , said by phone today. “It’s more
difficult for Japan because of its ties to the U.S. But China
might.”  The EU ban on the purchase, transportation, financing and
insurance of Iranian oil affects Asian importers because 95
percent of the world’s tankers are insured by the 13 members of
the  International Group , according to Andrew Bardot, the
organization’s executive officer. While China said it won’t
reduce imports, the EU sanctions make fewer ships available to
load the cargoes from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries’ second-largest producer.  Recovery or Indemnity  A provision within the Japanese club’s rules this year
“excludes any recovery or indemnity where the liabilities,
costs or expenses are not recoverable from the club’s reinsurers
due to sanctions,” Royston Deitch, the Japan club’s London
spokesman, said yesterday by e-mail. “The club benefits from
the reinsurance program of the International Group of P&I Clubs,
much of which is placed in London.”  The Chinese association “is in the same situation as the
International Group of P&I Clubs,” according to a faxed reply
to questions today from the Beijing-based group.  The Japanese club, the country’s only group of its kind,
covers almost half the combined supertanker fleet of  Mitsui (9104) 
O.S.K. Lines Ltd. and  Nippon Yusen (9101)  K.K., the world’s two largest
owners of the vessels, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  It insures 24 of Mitsui’s 39 sailing supertankers, known in
the industry as very large crude carriers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Two U.K.-based clubs that are also
International Group members insure the others, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The Tokyo-based owner won’t transport Iranian
oil without insurance, spokeswoman Akika Hamakawa said today by
e-mail.  Iranian Oil  Seven of NYK’s 29 supertankers are insured by the Japanese
club and the rest by European members of the International
Group, the data show. The Tokyo-based company won’t carry
Iranian oil without insurance, investor relations manager Yuji Isoda said Feb. 8.  The Chinese club’s members are “the major shipping
companies in China,” it said. COSCO Group and China Shipping
Group each own 12 VLCCs, according to Clarkson Research Services
Ltd., a unit of the world’s largest shipbroker.  New York-based  Overseas Shipholding Group Inc. (OSG) , Hamilton,
Bermuda-based  Frontline Ltd (FRO) . and owners controlling more than
100 supertankers said between Feb. 9 and Feb. 11 they would stop
carrying Iranian oil.  “Our P&I Club and insurance cover no longer cover these
ports,” Jens Martin Jensen, chief executive officer of
Frontline’s management unit, said on a conference call on Feb.
17. “It’s not a question of if we can make some money from
doing it, we will not do it for that reason.”  3.55 Million Barrels  China buys about 22 percent of Iran’s oil exports, while
Japan imports about 14 percent, the U.S. Department of Energy
estimates. Iran produced 3.55 million barrels a day last month,
about 4 percent of global output, according to Bloomberg
estimates and the  International Energy Agency .  China, the world’s largest energy consumer, opposes trade
restrictions against Iran and said oil sanctions aren’t
“constructive,” the official Xinhua News Agency reported Jan.
26, citing comments from the Ministry of  Foreign Affairs . Japan
is nearing a deal with the U.S. to protect Japanese banks from
sanctions in return for reducing imports of oil from Iran by 20
percent, the Nikkei newspaper reported yesterday.  The EU embargo still needs to be implemented by the
European Commission, the 27-nation bloc’s regulatory arm, before
it becomes binding directly on companies. Pre-existing contracts
are exempted until July 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  