-- EU to Consider Limits to UN Excess Emission Rights, Draft Shows
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-02-24T15:02:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/eu-to-consider-limits-to-un-excess-emission-rights-draft-shows.html
European Union countries will next
month discuss restrictions on United Nations emissions permits
after 2012 that may include limits on sales and the use of
revenue from excess rights, according to a draft EU document.  The debate by environment ministers from the 27-nation bloc
on March 9 will follow a political agreement in October on the
need to tackle the surplus, which threatens global climate-
protection goals. It’ll also build on internal EU talks during
the 2011 UN climate summit, when some states sought a limit on
the carry-over of excess UN permits and others favored no
restrictions, showed the document obtained by Bloomberg.  At stake is the future of UN-sponsored emission rights,
known as Assigned Amount Units, under the 1997  Kyoto Protocol 
after its initial period ends in 2012. While at the UN climate
talks in Durban,  South Africa , last year, the EU agreed to adopt
a binding emission-cutting target under the second Kyoto
commitment period from 2013, the bloc has yet to refine its
position on the choice of tools to curb the surplus of AAUs.  EU ministers will support “an international solution based
on a limit on the carry-over of surplus AAUs from the first to
the second commitment period, as well as limits on the transfer
to other parties of AAUs that have been carried over, and on the
use of AAUs carried over by parties,” according to a draft
statement to be adopted after the March gathering.  The conclusions, proposed by  Denmark , which holds the EU
rotating  presidency  in the first half of this year, may change
following a debate among the ministers.  ‘Full Carry-Over’  While some  member states  can “live with” the proposed
language, a group of nations wants the starting point of the
debate to be in line with the internal talks in Durban, which
were “premised on a full carry-over of AAUs coupled with use
limitations,” according to a note accompanying the draft
conclusions, dated Feb. 17.  The surplus of AAUs, which are tradable credits allocated
to countries that adopted binding emission-reduction commitments
under Kyoto, has pitted wealthier western nations and the
European Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, against poorer
former ex-communist members that have sought to retain their
rights to sell excess units in the future.  A lack of limits on the carry-over of AAUs will have no
impact on the environmental integrity of EU climate policies,
though unrestricted so-called banking would seriously undermine
post-2012 climate benefits pledged by non-EU countries that
choose to buy excess permits, the commission said on Feb. 15 in
a  technical paper  to provide input for discussion with
governments.  Restrictions Opposed  At a meeting of senior diplomats in Brussels this week a
group of central and eastern European countries led by  Poland 
opposed restrictions on the banking of excess UN permits after
2012, while countries including  Germany  and the Netherlands
favored strict limits, according to two EU diplomats familiar
with the talks. The diplomats declined to be named because the
discussions were confidential.  The Danish presidency also proposed that ministers declare
that the second Kyoto period should last from 2013 to 2020 and
that they call on all countries willing to adopt binding
emission targets under the protocol to ensure “a high level of
ambition,” according to the draft document.  The Durban summit left the issue of the second commitment
end-date open after discussing two options: 2017 and 2020. The
EU, which wants to lead the global fight against  climate change ,
has its own binding target of cutting  greenhouse gases  by 20
percent in 2020 compared with 1990 levels.  To contact the reporters on the story:
Ewa Krukowska in Luxembourg at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net ; 