-- Leung Enters Hong Kong Leadership Contest With Twice Minimum Nominations
-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g   a n d   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-02-24T00:12:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/leung-challenges-tang-in-h-k-as-support-grows.html
Leung Chun-ying entered the race to
be Hong Kong’s next leader, gaining almost double the minimum
number of nominations required as he challenges scandal-hit
frontrunner  Henry Tang .  Leung got 293 nominations from the 1,200-member Hong Kong
election committee that will choose the city’s next leader,
according to papers filed yesterday. Two weeks ago, the former
government adviser told the South  China  Morning Post he was
still trying to get the 150 minimum needed to contest.  The nominations signal support is building for Leung
among the tycoons, lawmakers and representatives on China’s top
political advisory body who will vote on March 25. Tang, who has
378 nominations, faces growing calls to quit the race after
blaming his wife for a basement built illegally.  “Leung has got more nominating votes than expected from
the committee, as Tang’s scandal may persuade some swing voters
to support Leung,” said Ray Yep Kin-man, associate professor in
public administration at the City University of  Hong Kong .
“Leung is a real competitor who can threaten Tang in this
election.”  The election’s outcome may hinge on the Chinese government,
which took control of Hong Kong from Britain in 1997. Beijing
hasn’t formally made any preference known. This will be the last
time the city’s chief executive is picked by committee, with
China pledging to permit universal suffrage in 2017.  Among Leung’s supporters are Hang Lung Properties Ltd.
Chairman Ronnie Chan, Shui On Land Ltd. Chairman Vincent Lo and
Bank of East Asia Ltd. Deputy Chairman Arthur Li.  Alleviate Poverty  Leung, a policeman’s son, has promised to speed the
construction of public homes and alleviate poverty as  surging
property prices  and a growing wealth gap stoke discontent among
residents. Tang, a former chief secretary, has the backing of Li Ka-shing,  Thomas Kwok  and Lee Shau Kee, who control three of
Hong Kong’s four biggest developers by market value.  “My campaign work is not only accountable for the election
committee, but also the general public,” Leung said at a
briefing yesterday. “If I get elected, I am the chief executive
of the 7 million people in Hong Kong, and I will address the
needs of all residents of different sectors and regions.”  A poll published by the  South China Morning post  yesterday
found that two-thirds of respondents believe Tang, 59, should
quit the race. He had 16 percent support among 506 respondents
in the poll, conducted on Feb. 20 and 21, while Leung was
favored by 63.9 percent. The survey has a margin of error of 4.4
percentage points.  Tycoons Support  “Even though Tang’s chance of winning is almost zero
because of his plummeting popularity, that doesn’t necessarily
mean that Leung can benefit from it,” said Joseph Wong,
visiting professor in public administration at the  City
University  of Hong Kong. “The tycoons said they remain
supportive of Tang because they don’t trust Leung.”  A week earlier, Leung had the support of 49 percent of
respondents while Tang had 21.3 percent according to a poll,
conducted by the University of Hong Kong’s Public Opinion
Programme that surveyed more than 1,000 residents.  Tang’s popularity sank after Hong Kong newspapers,
including  Apple Daily , reported that his wife had built a 209-
square-meter (2,250-square-foot) basement that contained a wine
cellar, wine-tasting room, and movie theater, without obtaining
government approval. Photographs of the property’s swimming pool
show skylights in the bottom that let light into the basement,
which is twice the size of more than 90 percent of private homes
in the city, according to government data.  A government investigation is proceeding, Carrie Lam,
secretary for development, told reporters yesterday.  ‘Ruthless Attacks’  “We are facing unprecedented attacks, which are ruthless
and fierce,” Tang said in a speech posted on his campaign
website yesterday. “We will put up a good fight because this
isn’t just a simple chief executive election anymore, or a
matter of personal pride. It’s a battle about Hong Kong’s core
values.”  Tang has the backing of the business lobby on the election
committee, with Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. Chairman Li, Henderson
Land Development Co.’s Chairman Lee, and  Sun Hung Kai Properties
Ltd. (16) ’s Co-Chairman Kwok supporting him, according to the papers
filed to the election office.  Lawmaker Albert Ho has also filed to join the race with 183
nominations. Regina Ip, Hong Kong’s former security secretary,
plans to take part and Jasper Tsang Yok Sing, chairman of the
Legislative Council, said this week he’ll consider joining the
contest.  Leung resigned as Asia-Pacific chairman of  DTZ Holdings
Plc. (DTZ) , a real estate advisory company bought by  UGL Ltd. (UGL)  last
year, to campaign for the top post.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  