-- Europe’s East Still Faces Risk of Credit Squeeze, Development Bank Says
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2012-02-24T12:37:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/europe-s-east-still-faces-risk-of-credit-squeeze-development-bank-says.html
Eastern  Europe  remains at risk of a
credit squeeze as western lenders cut funds to meet capital
rules even after the  European Central Bank ’s discount loans, the
 European Bank for Reconstruction and Development  said.  The euro region’s debt crisis spread to the continent’s
east through trade and banking links, hindering the recovery of
Europe’s emerging economies from a slump in 2009. While the
ECB’s 489 billion euros ($656 billion) of three-year loans have
helped avoid “a major disaster,” growth is slowing and credit
remains scarce, said  Piroska Nagy , an EBRD economist.  “We aren’t getting into a euphoric mood about the ECB’s
measures,” Nagy, director of country strategy and policy at the
EBRD in London, said in a phone interview yesterday. “We are
very happy that finally the ECB did what a central bank is
supposed to do. But because of the growth developments, the
capital-flow developments and the trade-finance developments, we
are very cautious to claim that we are out of the danger zone.”  Eastern European financial markets have rebounded this year
on expectations the decline in euro-region growth will be less
severe. The U.S. Federal Reserve’s pledge to keep  interest rates 
near zero through at least late 2014 also helped steer investors
toward the region’s higher yields, while the ECB’s longer-term
refinancing operation in December improved funding conditions
for western European lenders.  Forint, Zloty  The Hungarian forint is the world’s best performer this
year, having gained 8.6 percent against the euro, after being
the second-worst performer in the second half of last year
behind the Belarusian ruble. The Polish zloty is the second-
best, up 6.8 percent, from the third-worst in the last two
quarters.  “We are all relieved that that very important monetary
zone does have a central bank,” Nagy said. “Whether this will
translate into stabilization and a sustained improved outlook, I
am not sure.”  Western European lenders including  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Erste
Group Bank AG and  Societe Generale SA (GLE) , which control about
three-quarters of the region’s banking industry, are selling
assets and raising capital to meet more stringent requirements,
curtailing credit to households and businesses in the east.  The ECB is planning a second-round of longer-term
refinancing operations on Feb. 29.  “The ECB’s LTRO has been absolutely fundamentally
important to avoid basically a collapse,” Nagy said. “But
banks do continue deleveraging. And it is to continue because
adjustment of balance sheets is necessary.”  Poland Insulated  Funding conditions are still deteriorating in central
Europe, the Baltic economies and the Balkan nations, while
Poland appears to be more insulated because of stronger economic
growth and increasing local deposits, according to a draft
report by the EBRD, seen by Bloomberg.  The Polish economy may grow 2.5 percent this year, the
fastest pace in the European Union, the European Commission
forecast yesterday.  Hungary ’s economy will shrink 0.1 percent
and the  Czech Republic  will stagnate, the commission said.  Bank-related capital outflows from emerging Europe were
“substantial” in the second part of last year, the EBRD said.
Hungary’s outflows accelerated last year and even Poland was
affected, with net outflows totaling 2 percent of economic
output between July and November last year, according to data
compiled by the EBRD.  Spilling Over  This deleveraging is spilling over into deteriorating
credit conditions, the EBRD said. Credit availability is
declining in Lithuania and Hungary, while Poland and  Slovakia 
maintained “modest” credit growth, according to the
 development bank .  Another channel of contagion from western European banks
shrinking their balance sheets is a shortage of trade finance
for the continent’s east, Nagy said.  “Many countries in emerging Europe are small countries,
very open, which routinely use trade finance,” she said.
“Developments in trade finance are also pretty bleak.”  As much as half of trade-finance products offered by banks
worldwide come from euro-area banks, according to data from the
EBRD. As they focus on repairing balance sheets, these banks are
reducing these products, Nagy said.  While in emerging  Asia  and  Latin America , local lenders are
able to step in and “pick up the slack,” in emerging Europe
the withdrawal of western European lenders from trade finance
leaves a gap, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in  London  at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  