-- European Bank Property Woes Grow With Maturing Loans: Mor
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-02-24T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/european-property-woes-grow-with-loans-overhang-of-779-billion-mortgages.html
European landlords have 582.7
billion euros ($779 billion) of commercial property debt
maturing by the end of 2013 at the same time regulators are
urging banks to shrink their balance sheets.  The maturing loans could trigger writedowns for banks that
need to meet stricter capital standards under international
accords and as the region’s sovereign debt crisis threatens to
dent lender balance sheets. If banks demand repayment, it may
lead to a surge in foreclosures and restrain economic growth in
 Europe . That’s why regulators are instead encouraging gradual
sales of the loans to private-equity firms including  Blackstone
Group LP (BX)  and Dallas-based  Lone Star Funds .  Spanish shopping centers to Amsterdam offices have 260
billion euros of loans coming due this year, a 30 percent
increase from 2011, according to research from broker  DTZ
Holdings Plc (DTZ) , which estimates a further 322.7 billion euros will
mature next year. Most European real-estate debt originated
before markets plunged in 2007 is being held on bank balance
sheets at 90 percent or more of face value, according to Conor
Downey, a partner specializing in real estate and financial
reform at law firm  Paul Hastings . Potential buyers value them at
50 percent to 60 percent, he said.  A substantial “rebound in capital values appears to be at
best delayed with no immediate prospects for any strong growth,
so I think the banks are probably feeling fairly uncomfortable
at the moment,” said Colin Lizieri, a real estate finance
professor at  Cambridge University .  Mortgage Bonds  European commercial property prices rose 5.3 percent in
2010, according to data from Investment Property Databank Ltd.,
the latest available. That followed declines of 15.9 percent in
2008 and 2.2 percent in 2009 that left borrowers struggling to
repay loans and banks trying to sell soured assets.  New regulatory requirements mean banks have to increase
core capital to 9 percent by June, which may restrict lending.
That’s “not a very fortunate plan,” given current market
conditions, European Central Bank Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny said last month.  The ECB cut its forecast for euro-area economic growth in
2012 to 0.3 percent on Dec. 8 from a September prediction of 1.3
percent. A push to balance the U.K.’s finances probably will
reduce growth to 0.5 percent this year from 0.9 percent in 2011,
according to the median forecast of economists compiled by
Bloomberg.  CMBS Spreads  While relative yields on European commercial mortgage debt
packaged into securities narrowed in the last two months, the
spreads are wider than a year ago and five times the level in
November 2007, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  data.  Investors demand 505 basis points, or 5.05 percentage
points, above lending benchmarks to hold the securities, down
from 575 basis points at the end of 2011. The spread has widened
from 365 basis points a year ago, the data show. European banks
hold most of their loans on their books with just 112 billion
euros, or 6 percent, securitized at the end of 2010, according
to the latest figures from DTZ Research.  Banks sold 20 billion euros of real-estate loans across
Europe and the  Middle East  last year and a further 13 billion
euros is on the market, CBRE Group Inc. said Feb. 21. A total of
20 billion euros will probably be sold this year, according to
the broker.  Unattractive Locations  Most of the property debt owned by European banks is
secured against properties in unfavorable condition or
unattractive locations. In the U.K., two thirds of the
properties financed by banks are secured against non-prime
property, according to a Dec. 30 report published by the  Bank of
England .  Potential acquirers are instead focusing on prime assets,
Natale Giostra, CBRE’s European head of debt advisory, said in
December.  Banks may add to the problem if they foreclose on borrowers
because more inferior real estate would come onto the market and
push down values, said Lizieri at Cambridge University.  Banks that historically bundled property debt for sale are
being discouraged by new rules that mean securitizations require
higher levels of capital. Instead, they’re seeking to team up
with other banks to package their loans into funds that can be
sold.  Funds “diversify - and therefore improve - each investors’
risk position,”  Simon Gleeson , a lawyer at Clifford Chance LLP
in  London  specializing in markets and regulation, said in an e-
mail. “You need quite a large number of banks involved, and
they need to trust each other only to put in assets of the
specified quality. Building that trust may take time.”  ‘Political Masters’  Banks are being “nudged” by regulators toward recognizing
bad real estate loans, “but it’s going to end slowly,” said
Bob Penn, a partner at Allen & Overy LLP in London. “Regulators
report to their political masters and are sensitive to their
wishes. They don’t want to drive economic growth off a cliff and
they don’t want to trigger another crisis.”  Private-equity firms are seeking to pick up some of the
slack.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  sold 1.36 billion pounds
($2.14 billion) of commercial real-estate loans to a Blackstone
fund in December at about 29 percent less than face value, two
people with knowledge of the talks said, who declined to be
identified because the deal was private.  The New York-based private equity firm, the world’s
largest, is also offering to advise banks on creating funds that
buy and sell pooled loans, according to a person familiar with
the matter, who declined to be identified.  Spanish Shopping Malls  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s second-biggest
government-aided bank, sold more than 900 million pounds of
mortgage-backed loans to Lone Star Funds in December. The loans
may have been bought at a 40 percent discount, two people
familiar with the matter said.  For assets like non-prime shopping malls in  Spain ,
“there’s virtually no buyers or at least there’s none unless
there’s significantly lower prices,” said  Harm Meijer , an
analyst at JPMorgan in London. The investment bank expects
“falling property prices or at best a flattish market for a
long time” across Europe, according to a Jan. 11 note to
investors.  Banks will put more distressed real estate up for sale in
some parts of Europe this year, Meijer said, and Dutch offices
and secondary U.K. properties will be among the assets sold.  U.K. banks would have to write off billions of pounds if
they “seriously attacked” their commercial property loan books
through sales, Michael Marx, chief executive officer of
 Development Securities Plc, (DSC)  said by e-mail. RBS said yesterday
that its non-core division’s commercial real estate assets were
impaired by 3.4 billion pounds in 2011.  German Performance  Germany , the largest economy in Europe, is not immune,
based on the performance of commercial mortgage backed
securities issued there. Only 22 percent of German CMBS loans
were repaid when they matured last year, compared with 74
percent in  France  and 38 percent in the U.K.,  Standard & Poor’s 
said in a January report.  While many European banks are cutting commercial property
lending, French banks increased their exposure as a percentage
of their loan book from about 30 percent in 2007 to about 34
percent in 2010, according to a Jan. 5 research note from  Morgan
Stanley. (MS)   “I don’t think France has actually faced up to how they’re
going to tackle the problem,” said Chris Mutch, a real-estate
director of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. “France is probably a
territory that’s on our watchlist both from a real estate and a
loan portfolio point of view,”  PwC said that it will take 10 years for banks to sell up to
3 trillion euros of assets and expect a similar timeframe for
their troubled real estate loans. That echoes earlier crises,
said Meijer of JPMorgan. “We’ve heard from bankers in Germany
that they only worked out the last of their problem loans from
the 1970s in recent weeks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net . 