-- European Stocks Post Loss on Greece Austerity Measures, Euro-Area Growth
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-02-25T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/european-stocks-post-weekly-loss-on-greece-euro-area-growth.html
European stocks  fell this week on
investor concern about  Greece ’s ability to implement austerity
measures needed for a second rescue package, and as the European
Commission said the euro area’s economy will shrink this year.  National Bank of Greece SA paced declines in banks, sliding
18 percent. Commerzbank AG, the second-biggest German lender,
dropped more than 6.6 percent after asking investors to swap
hybrid capital instruments for new shares. TNT Express NV, the
Dutch express-delivery service, rose 48 percent after rejecting
a takeover offer from United Parcel Service Inc.  The  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  slipped 0.4 percent to 264.77 this week after
reaching 268.16 on Feb. 20, the gauge’s highest level since July
26. The benchmark measure has  rallied 23 percent  from its low on
Sept. 22 and  8.3 percent  this year as investors speculated euro-
area policy makers will contain the sovereign-debt crisis.  “Investors have been hesitant as European politicians face
parliamentary votes to pass the bailout for Greece which also
faces another general election in April,” said Hans Peterson,
the Global Head of Investment Strategy at SEB Private Banking in
 Stockholm . “Markets are in a waiting position.”  Greek Package  Euro-area finance ministers this week approved a 130
billion-euro aid package for Greece and persuaded investors to
provide more debt relief to the nation.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  indicated she will maintain
pressure on the Mediterranean country to meet debt-cutting
pledges required for its second financial rescue, saying fiscal
discipline is needed to hold the euro area together.  Still, the second rescue package may not be enough to end
the debt crisis, Bank of England Deputy Governor Charlie Bean
said on Feb. 22 in a speech in Glasgow,  Scotland .  While the agreement “is certainly welcome, there still
remains a possibility that events could unfold in a disorderly
and damaging fashion at some stage in the future,” he said.  On Feb. 23, stocks slipped after the European Commission
said the 17-nation euro economy will contract 0.3 percent in
2012, abandoning a November forecast for 0.5 percent growth, as
the commission expects the economies of  Italy  and  Spain  to
shrink 1.3 percent and 1 percent, respectively.  “Although growth has stalled, we are seeing signs of
stabilization in the European economy,” European Union Economic
and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn said in the introduction to
the quarterly forecasts. “Economic sentiment is still at low
levels, but stress in financial markets is easing.”  German Business Confidence  In  Germany , the Munich-based Ifo institute said on Feb. 23
that its business climate index, based on a survey of 7,000
executives, climbed to 109.6 in February from 108.3 in January,
the fourth straight gain and the highest since July.  European services and manufacturing output unexpectedly
shrank in February as the euro-area economy struggled to rebound
from a contraction in the fourth quarter. A euro-area composite
index based on a survey of purchasing managers in both
industries dropped to 49.7 from 50.4 in January, London-based
Markit Economics said. Economists had forecast a reading of
50.5, according to the median of 16 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey.  A separate Purchasing Managers Index showed German services
and manufacturing expansion unexpectedly slowed in February amid
declining orders at factories in  Europe ’s largest economy.  U.S. Confidence  Confidence among U.S. consumers unexpectedly rose in
February, the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index
of consumer sentiment showed. The measure increased to 75.3 from
75 in January beating the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of 73. The gauge averaged 89 in the five years before the
18-month recession that ended in June 2009.  Claims for jobless benefits in the U.S. held steady at
351,000 in the week ended Feb. 18, the lowest level in four
years after an unexpected fall last week, Labor Department
figures showed yesterday. Economists in a Bloomberg survey had
projected an increase to 355,000.  Thirteen of the 19 industry groups in the  Stoxx 600 (SXXP) 
declined this week, led by a gauge of travel and leisure
companies, which fell 2.9 percent. Tour operators and airlines
face rising fuel costs.  National benchmark indexes fell in nine of the 18 western-
European markets.  France ’s  CAC 40 (CAC)  Index gained 0.8 percent.
Germany’s  DAX (DAX)  Index rose 0.8 percent and the U.K.’s  FTSE 100 (UKX) 
Index increased 0.5 percent.  Bank Decline  National Bank of Greece fell 18 percent to lead bank
decliners as lenders including Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc,
Commerzbank and Dexia SA, which booked losses on their Greek
government debt. Credit Agricole SA, France’s third- biggest
bank, dropped 4.2 percent after reporting a quarterly loss
following a 220 million-euro writedown on Greek debt.  Commerzbank fell 6.6 percent. Germany’s second-largest
lender said it won’t pay a dividend for 2011 and will ask
investors to swap hybrid capital instruments trading below face
value for new shares, in a plan to boost its financial strength.  Hellenic Telecom , the biggest Greek phone company, lost 11
percent after saying it expects a similar decline in sales in
2012 as in 2011.  TNT Express, the Dutch parcel delivery company which was
spun off from PostNL NV in May, rose 48 percent after rejecting
a 4.89 billion-euro offer from Atlanta-based United Parcel
Services Inc. on Feb. 17. PostNL advanced 41 percent.  Earnings  Of the 216 companies on the Stoxx 600 that have reported
quarterly earnings so far, 108 have missed analyst estimates,
while 92 have surpassed them,  data compiled by Bloomberg  show.  BASF AG advanced 2.7 percent. The world’s largest chemicals
maker said fourth-quarter sales gained 10 percent to 18.07
billion euros ($24 billion), beating a 16.95 billion-euro
estimate. Earnings before interest, taxes and items fell 15
percent to 1.51 billion euros, in line with analysts’
predictions. Investors will get a dividend of 2.50 euros,
exceeding a Bloomberg estimate of 2.40 euros a share.  Vallourec SA, a French producer of steel pipes for the oil
and gas industry, tumbled 6.5 percent. The company reported a
fourth-quarter profit that beat analyst estimates and forecast a
lower profit margin this year.  Airlines Lose  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA, the holding
company of the British and the Spanish flag carriers, and Air
France-KLM, Europe’s biggest airline, paced a selloff in
European airlines, both fell 6.6 percent as crude oil futures
traded at a nine-month high.  TUI AG slumped 7.2 percent in Frankfurt trading after Banco
CAM sold 12.9 million shares of Europe’s largest travel company.
Deutsche Lufthansa AG fell 3.7 percent after strikes at
Frankfurt Airport forced the airline to cancel hundreds of
flights.  Cove Energy Plc rose 58 percent. PTT Exploration &
Production Pcl offered 1.1 billion pounds ($1.7 billion) to buy
the African oil and gas explorer, trumping an earlier bid by
Royal Dutch Shell Plc.  The proposed offer of 220 pence a share represents a
premium of 30 percent to Cove’s average closing price in the
past five days,  Thailand ’s only listed oil and gas explorer said
today in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring  in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  