-- Europe Faces Pressure as G-20 Debates IMF Role
-- B y   A l a n   C r a w f o r d   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-02-24T15:44:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/europe-faces-pressure-as-g-20-mulls-imf-role.html
U.S., Chinese and Japanese officials
say they will press euro-area countries to do more to merit
outside help when the world’s largest economies gather tomorrow
for a meeting dominated by  Europe ’s sovereign-debt woes.  European officials will push fellow Group of 20 nations to
commit fresh cash to the  International Monetary Fund  to help
defuse the region’s fiscal crisis, days after backing a second
bailout for Greece. The Obama administration says Europe must
first strengthen its firewall to prevent debts of countries such
as Italy and  Spain  from becoming unsustainable.  G-20 finance ministers and central bank governors meet in
 Mexico  City four days after euro-area governments sanctioned a
130 billion-euro ($175 billion) aid package for Greece and amid
 warnings  by the IMF that concerns about debt sustainability
could drag the world into another recession. While  China ,  Japan ,
 Brazil  and Mexico say they are willing to help once Europe acts,
the U.S. shows no signs of reaching for its checkbook.  “Europe will implicitly be the main political topic of
conversation, in the lens of what will it take to get more
contribution to the IMF,”  Jacob Kirkegaard , a research fellow
at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in
Washington, said in an interview. “The Europeans clearly
realize that they have to move first.”  ‘Make More Efforts’  With demand from the European Union’s 500 million
consumers slowing, China and Japan have signaled a commitment to
help resolve Europe’s debt woes. The condition is that Europe
“make more efforts to create a bigger firewall,” Japanese
Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said Feb. 20 in Beijing. Japan is
considering contributing $50 billion to the IMF’s European
rescue package, the Asahi newspaper reported Feb. 23, without
saying where it obtained the information.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  stepped up U.S.
calls for Europe to boost firewall. While European action so far
means it’s “much less likely” the debt crisis will trigger
global contagion, the U.S. and other nations won’t commit fresh
funds to the IMF until Europe makes its backstop more
“credible,” he said in an interview on CNBC today.  “What we don’t want to see is the IMF substitute -- and it
really cannot substitute -- for a stronger European response,”
Geithner said.  European Funds  IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde , who was French
finance minister when the crisis surfaced in  Greece  in late
2009, is looking for an additional $500 billion in lending
resources for the Washington-based fund. The 17 euro nations
have pledged about $200 billion in new money.  European leaders will meet again in Brussels March 1-2 to
review the mechanics of the 500 billion-euro permanent rescue
fund, the European Stability Mechanism. The fund, which is to be
implemented in July, one year earlier than originally planned,
was set up to aid European Union member states that need help
meeting debt payments.  While some officials and the European Central Bank favor
combining the permanent fund with the temporary European
Financial Stability Facility to produce a 750 billion-euro
firewall, Germany has yet to show its hand and is calling for
more IMF help to increase funds available to contain the crisis.  G-20 leaders meeting in the French resort of Cannes in
November put off a decision on increasing aid to Europe. Mexican
Finance Minister Jose Antonio Meade said Feb. 8 it’s still too
soon to expect a deal on additional IMF funding. This weekend’s
meeting will lay the ground work for a G-20 heads of state
summit to take place in June in the Mexican resort of Los Cabos.  ‘Clear Sequence’  “There’s a generalized recognition that having more
resources available via the IMF might be something that people
are prepared to sign up to provided they feel that Europe is
doing enough to help itself,” Malcolm Barr, chief U.K.
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  London , said in a phone
interview. “But there is a clear sequence.”  Fitch Ratings  lowered Greece’s credit grade that day by two
levels to C from CCC, saying a default is “highly likely in the
near term.”  Stocks in Europe rose today, snapping a three-day decline.
The rebound came a day after Commerzbank AG,  Germany ’s second-
biggest lender, tumbled 6.6 percent as it and two other banks,
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and  France ’s Credit Agricole
SA, booked losses on their Greek government debt.  European Economy  The European Commission, the EU’s executive body, said it
expects the region’s economy to shrink this year. A euro-area
composite index based on a survey of purchasing managers in
services and manufacturing dropped to 49.7 from 50.4 in January,
London-based Markit Economics said in an initial estimate Feb.
22, below analysts’ forecasts. In contrast, the Manufacturing &
Non-Manufacturing ISM Index, a gauge of manufacturing and non-
manufacturing activity in the U.S., rose to 56.5 in January from
52.8 in the previous month.  “There’s a nascent recovery in the U.S.,” said Sony Kapoor, managing director at Re-Define, a London-based firm that
advises governments on economic policy. “The biggest risk
factor in the global economy is the worsening of the euro
crisis,” he said.  Aside from the firewall, policy makers will probably
discuss a successor for World Bank President  Robert Zoellick ,
who said last week he would step down when his five-year mandate
ends June 30.  Zoellick Successor  The World Bank board has said it expects to select his
successor by its spring meetings that start April 20 in
 Washington , and will accept nominations until March 23.  A U.S. citizen traditionally holds the post under an
informal agreement in which a European heads the IMF. While the
U.S. has said it planned to nominate its candidate in coming
weeks, officials from Brazil and China are pushing for a
selection procedure that could yield a president who is not from
the U.S.  “I’d be very surprised if you don’t see trial balloons
being put forward,” Kirkegaard said. “This is exactly the
right forum for the kind of informal discussions about that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Crawford in Mexico City at  acrawford6@bloomberg.net ;
Sandrine Rastello in Mexico City at  srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 