-- Ex-Conversion Solutions Officer Gets 23 Years in Prison
-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 2012-02-24T00:46:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/ex-conversion-solutions-officer-gets-23-years-in-prison-2-.html
Three former officers of  Conversion
Solutions Holdings Corp (CSHD) ., based in Kennesaw, Georgia, were
sentenced to prison terms as long as 23 years and ordered to
make restitution of $44 million for running a so-called stock
pump and dump scheme, the  Justice Department  said.  “These significant sentences reflect the seriousness of
the massive fraud these defendants committed against numerous
victims who invested in the defendants’ company,” Sally Q.
Yates, U.S. Attorney in Atlanta, said in a statement. “While
the defendants got rich, victims lost millions.”  The trio were convicted in federal court in Atlanta last
year of conspiring to issue false press releases and financial
statements to inflate the share price from less than $1 in
August 2006 to $3 and $4 a share in October 2006, prosecutors
said.  They transferred shares secretly to family members to cash
in on the higher price, prosecutors said in the statement.  U.S. District Judge Timothy C. Batten sentenced Rufus  Paul Harris , 43, a co-founder and chief executive officer of the
firm, to 23 years in prison, to be followed by 5 years of
supervised release. Harris, of  Oklahoma  City, Oklahoma, fled
while on trial in Atlanta last year, according to the U.S.
Attorney’s Office. He was captured in  Utah  four days later, the
prosecutor’s statement said.  Harris’s lawyer, Howard Manchel of Atlanta, didn’t
immediately respond to e-mail and phone messages seeking comment
on his client’s sentence.  Chief Financial Officer  Benjamin Stanley, 48, of Kennesaw Georgia, co-founder and
chief operating officer, was sentenced to 16 years. Chief
Financial Officer Darryl Horton, 50, of Okemos,  Michigan , got
four and a half years in prison. Horton pleaded guilty to mail
fraud while the jury was deliberating, according to the U.S.
Attorney’s Office.  “We are disappointed in the length of the sentence” for
Stanley, said his lawyer, Donald Samuel of Atlanta. Stanley
“believed in the validity of the business model, the legitimacy
of the investments,” said Samuel, acknowledging that the jury
rejected the claim that he was duped as the investors were.  Efforts to reach Horton’s attorney by e-mail and phone
after regular business hours weren’t immediately successful.  Prosecutors said the $44 million they are to pay in
restitution will go to more than 5,000 victims.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission referred the
case to the federal investigators, according to the statement.
The firm, a diversified holding company, has been delisted.  The company claimed $800 million in assets, most of it in
foreign sovereign bonds, and income of almost $20 million a year
in interest revenue. None of that was true, according to the
government.  The case is U.S. v. Harris, 1:09-cr-00406, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Georgia  (Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta  at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  