-- F. Murray Abraham’s Galileo Fears Torture, Pope: Jeremy Gerard
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-02-25T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/f-murray-abraham-s-galileo-fears-torture-pope-jeremy-gerard.html
Heavenly spheres of varying sizes
dangle in ghostly light above the tiny stage where F. Murray Abraham is having some fun at the expense of the astronomer
Galileo.  It’s impossible to tell whether those old globes are
planets, moons or stars. They do, however, make us feel small in
the universe.  Galileo is a scientist in a burgeoning age -- the early
17th century -- when science and religion were often at odds
with each other. That could be any age, of course, not least of
all our own, when politicians touting medieval religious beliefs
can still be taken seriously as candidates for the presidency.  Bertolt Brecht’s Galileo passes off a crude Dutch telescope
as his own invention to ingratiate himself with the merchant
classes and underwrite his research. Not to mention preserve a
relatively cushy lifestyle for himself and his beloved daughter
 Virginia .  When his heliocentric view of the universe is labeled
heresy by the Grand Inquisitor, he recants rather than risk
torture. His own servant, feeling betrayed, admonishes him,
saying “Pity the nation that breeds no hero.”  Torture Tools  Galileo pointedly replies, “Pity the nation that needs a
hero.” He has no interest in the hair shirt. Still, he
continues his research in secret, recording his findings for
posterity.  Abraham, usually an intense stage presence, here plays the
scientist as wry, almost wistful, winking us into his
confidence. It doesn’t work. It’s distancing, though I doubt in
the way Brecht intended.  The moment of highest tension comes when the Pope orders
the Grand Inquisitor not to torture Galileo, but merely to
“show him the instruments.”  At a critics’ preview after several weeks of performances,
Abraham still wasn’t altogether certain of his lines. But there
are especially good supporting performances from Aaron
Himelstein, as the Little Monk, and Nick Westrate as Virginia’s
turncoat suitor.  Brian Kulick’s staging has lots of eye candy provided by
Adrianne Lobel’s outer-spacey setting. The globes are grounded
by the compass setting on the Classic Stage Company’s
handkerchief-size stage, all carefully and exquisitely lit by
Justin Townsend. The center, however, doesn’t quite hold.  Through March 18 at 136 E. 13th St. Information: +1-212-
352-3101;  http://www.classicstage.org .  Rating: **  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 