-- Fed’s Bullard Says Damaged Housing Market Blocking Monetary Easing Option
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 2012-02-24T18:54:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/fed-s-bullard-says-damaged-housing-market-blocking-monetary-easing-option.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said he doesn’t favor additional asset
purchases since inflation is above the central bank’s target and
the transmission mechanism for monetary policy is clogged by the
damaged housing market.  “I am worried that if you try to push so hard on monetary
policy even when the mechanism isn’t really working the whole
thing blows up on you,” Bullard told reporters after a speech
today in  New York .  Bullard spoke following the presentation of a paper by
economists  Michael Feroli  of JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Ethan Harris  of Bank of America Corp. that argued the collapse of
housing and upheaval in the mortgage market was preventing the
central bank’s low interest rate policies from being as
effective as in normal recoveries.  Bullard said that the  Federal Open Market Committee  would
need to mark down its economic forecasts before a third round of
quantitative easing would be warranted.  “If we get a lot of bad data coming in, I’m sure that’s
what would happen,” Bullard said. If the outlook for the
economy worsened, “then it would be reasonable” to put QE3
“back on the table.”  “Inflation numbers would have to indicate further
disinflation or the threat of deflation,” Bullard said at the
U.S. Monetary Policy Forum hosted by the University of Chicago
Booth School of Business. “Inflation risks are to the upside”
currently.  Prefers Treasuries  Bullard said if the Fed undertakes another round of bond
buying, he’d prefer the U.S. central bank stick to buying
Treasuries, instead of mortgage debt, because the Fed aims to
get back to a Treasuries-only portfolio.  “Labor markets are looking better in the U.S.,” and
“probability of a severe financial meltdown” in  Europe  is
less, he said. “Those are all reasons to be more optimistic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  