-- Fed’s Bullard Opposes More QE With Inflation Over 2% Target
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-02-24T15:39:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/fed-s-bullard-says-he-opposes-more-qe-with-inflation-over-target.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said additional asset purchases are not
needed with inflation including food and fuel higher than the
central bank’s 2 percent target.  “I wouldn’t take QE3 off the table ever,” Bullard said in
a CNBC interview, referring to a third round of purchases or
quantitative easing. “We should use it only if the economy
deteriorates and especially if the inflation numbers start to
drift down into disinflation or deflation. Headline inflation is
above target.”  Bullard, who doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year, was
the first Fed official in 2010 to call for a second round of
asset purchases.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in a press
conference after the Jan. 25 Federal Open Market Committee
meeting that the Fed is keeping the option open of buying more
bonds.  Bullard said recent economic reports reinforce his view
that the  U.S. economy  may accelerate to about 3 percent this
year, and the risks from the European debt crisis have dropped
with new policies from central bankers there.  “The economy is looking brighter,” Bullard said. “The
data is better, so it is a natural time for the committee to be
on pause for awhile.”  Bullard said a drop in the number of Americans filing
first-time claims for jobless benefits to a four-year low
indicates that the U.S. unemployment rate will likely fall
further this year and could end at around 7.8 percent.  The St. Louis Fed president said his forecast suggests the
first tightening by the central bank might occur in 2013, though
the wide range of views among policy makers shows how uncertain
forecasts are beyond a few months.  Bullard said the Fed would need to consider the impact of
any further easing on commodities prices and inflation at a time
that  oil prices  are rising.  “That’s a serious issue for the committee to consider,”
he said in the CNBC interview. “I think it would be very
worrisome that you have the situation in  Iran  being a wild card
for global oil prices. You wouldn’t want to feed into that.”  The Fed on Jan. 25 said subdued inflation and slack in the
economy are likely to warrant keeping rates exceptionally low at
least through late 2014, extending a previous date of mid-2013
or later, and policy makers disclosed forecasts for the first
time for the target interest rate.  “This is a best guess,” Bullard said. “Trying to make
promises that far in the future is not a credible thing to do”
because the economic outlook may change.  Bullard also said he wasn’t opposed to a congressional
proposal that would give the central bank a single mandate of
stable prices rather than its current dual mandate that also
includes full employment.  “Providing stable prices in the economy” is the way to
achieve “the best employment that you can get,” he said.
“It’s okay for me to go to a single mandate.”  Bullard was in  New York  to discuss a research paper on
housing at the U.S. Monetary Policy Forum Initiative on Global
Markets hosted by the University of Chicago Booth School of
Business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  