-- Fiat May Close Two Italian Factories
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2012-02-24T11:18:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/fiat-may-close-two-italian-factories-without-exports-to-u-s-.html
Fiat SpA (F)  may shut two of its five
domestic car factories if it can’t produce competitively in
Italy and export vehicles to the U.S.  Sergio Marchionne , chief executive officer of Fiat and
Chrysler Group LLC, told newspaper  Corriere della Sera  in an
interview that the company must take advantage of a revived U.S.
car market since the outlook for the European business is bleak.  “We have everything needed to seize the opportunity to
work competitively also for the U.S. market,” Marchionne was
quoted as saying. “If it doesn’t happen, then we will have to
close down two of the five plants.” His comments were confirmed
by a spokesman for Turin-based Fiat.  Fiat, which controls Chrysler with a 58.5 percent stake,
closed its Sicilian plant at the end of last year as it seeks to
cut costs and improve productivity in  Italy  after losing 500
million euros ($670 million) in  Europe  last year in the volume-
car business.  European car sales may fall this year for a fifth
consecutive year. Marchionne said last month in  Detroit  that he
doesn’t expect a recovery in Europe before 2014 and forecast
Italian sales may slump this year to the lowest since 1985.
Fiat, which moved back production of its subcompact Panda in
Italy from  Poland , decided to slow down the introduction of
models in Europe because of the “scarcity” of demand,
Marchionne told the Italian daily today.  Falling Production  “Vehicle production will keep on falling in Italy and
Europe as we don’t see the end of the crisis of car sales in the
region,” said Giuseppe Berta, a professor at  Bocconi University 
in Milan, who has written several books on Fiat.  Fiat presented in 2010 a 20 billion-euro plan to boost
production in Italy to 1.4 million vehicles a year by 2014 from
650,000 in 2009, in exchange for labor concessions from workers.
Production of cars in the country fell 15 percent to less than
500,000 vehicles in 2011, according to carmakers’ association
Anfia.  The company introduced a new contract for its Italian
workers beginning in January which includes longer shifts and
shorter breaks. Fiom Cgil, Fiat’s biggest union, contested the
labor deal and said it will sue the Italian company for anti-
union behavior.  “Italian plants have the opportunity to export to the
U.S.,” Marchione told Corriere. “This is what I’m doing for
Italy. I find it unbearably racist being described as an
unpatriotic man.”  European Consolidation  The Fiat CEO said last month in Detroit he’s willing to
participate in industry consolidation in Europe and would
consider adding a third partner before a planned merger between
Fiat and Chrysler.  Carmakers in Europe need to consolidate to compete with VW,
which had a market share in the region of 23.3 percent last
year, Marchionne said Jan. 10.  General Motors Co. (GM)  and PSA
Peugeot Citroen are in talks to form a broad partnership as the
two automakers struggle with declining car sales in Europe, a
person familiar with the discussion said Feb 22.  Marchionne also said in the Corriere interview that an
initial public offering of Arbor Hills, Michigan-based Chrysler
is the least likely of three options, which include an
acquisition of the American carmaker by Fiat and a merger of the
two companies. He also reiterated Fiat has no plan to sell its
Alfa Romeo division because it “needs the brand” for the U.S.
market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  