-- Former MOF Official Says Yen Still Too Strong
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 2012-02-24T05:47:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/former-mof-official-says-yen-still-too-strong.html
Even with the yen’s slide to a
seven-month low this week, the currency remains too strong
relative to  Japan ’s economic fundamentals, said former top
currency official Takatoshi Kato.  Japanese policy makers stand ready to intervene in markets
again should the currency re-test the postwar records it reached
last year, Kato said in an interview in  Tokyo  yesterday. The yen
reached 80.40 per dollar on Feb. 22, the weakest level since
July 11 and still 18 percent stronger than its five-year average
of 95.14.  “If there is any volatile or disorderly move which could
endanger growth, Japan is prepared to intervene,” said Kato,
who is now the president of Japan’s Centre for International
Finance. Recent declines in the currency may be a
“correction,” he said.  The yen’s surge to 76.25 on March 16 prompted coordinated
intervention by Group of Seven nations the next day. Kato
predicted in July that Japanese officials would act again to
weaken it, ahead of the country’s first unilateral intervention
that year on Aug. 4.  Japan sold its currency on Oct. 31 and the days that
followed after it reached a postwar record of 75.35, drawing
criticism from the  U.S. Treasury  for the unilateral moves.  The fundamental drivers for a currency include economic
growth, the current-account balance and industrial production,
according to Kato. Japan’s gross domestic product contracted in
three of the previous four quarters, while the current-account
surplus shrank in 2011 to a 15-year low. January’s trade deficit
was the lowest on record, data showed this month.  Korea, Germany  “A substantial appreciation in the currency does hurt at a
time when exporters such as  South Korea  and  Germany  have been
enjoying weaker currencies in the past two to three years,”
said Kato, who formerly served as a deputy managing director of
the  International Monetary Fund . “People took it for granted
that Japan would always have a  trade surplus , but they may be
starting to realize that is not the case.”  The  Bank of Japan  on Feb. 14 added 10 trillion yen ($124
billion) to an asset purchase program and set an inflation goal
of 1 percent. The yen has slid 2.3 percent against the dollar
since that day.  “If the 1 percent inflation goal is a clear target, that
implies that the Bank of Japan will ease policy aggressively to
reach that goal, which will support yen weakness,” Kato said.  The yen tends to strengthen in periods of financial turmoil
because Japan’s current-account surplus makes the country less
reliant on foreign capital. A stronger local currency hurts the
overseas competitiveness of exporters and cuts the value of
their overseas income when repatriated.  “I don’t think we have to worry about the yen
strengthening rapidly toward 75 per dollar,” said Kato. “The
currency has stayed in focus as a stable safe haven, but the
market’s view on the yen may be changing a little bit.”  Kato, 70, served at Japan’s  Finance Ministry  for three
decades and held senior positions including vice finance
minister for international affairs, the No. 1 currency position.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeki Nozawa in 東京 at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brian Fowler at 
 bfowler4@bloomberg.net  