-- French Consumer Confidence Rises on Signs of Recovery
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-02-24T11:02:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/french-consumer-confidence-rises-on-signs-economy-is-recovering.html
French  consumer confidence  climbed
for a second month in February after the economy unexpectedly
expanded in the fourth quarter, adding to signs of recovery.  A  measure of sentiment  rose to 82 in February from 81 in
January, national statistics office Insee said in Paris today.
That matched economists’ expectations for a reading of 82,
according to 15 forecasts gathered by Bloomberg News.  The increase came two months after confidence reached its
lowest in almost three years. While the survey’s readings for
consumers’ personal finances and ability to save improved, the
overall measure remained below its long-term average of 100 amid
concern about joblessness and pledges of budget cuts from all
the main candidates in this year’s French presidential election.  “Higher unemployment, a focus on saving money ahead of the
coming elections” as well concern about tax increases “could
lead to a further deterioration of  consumer confidence ,” said
Pierre-Olivier Beffy, an economist at Exane BNP Paribas in
 London .  The survey’s reading for consumers’ ability to save in
future improved to 24 from 21 and the gauge of their personal
financial prospects improving to minus 26 from minus 28, Insee
said.  “More households judge now than in January that it’s a
good time to save,” Insee said. Almost as many people as in
January “are predicting an increase in unemployment,” the
statistics office said. The reading for the joblessness outlook
gained to 64 from 65.  The  number of people actively looking for work  in  France 
rose by 29,700, or 1.0 percent, in December to 2,874,500, the
Labor Ministry said Jan. 25. That’s the highest total since
September 1999. In all of last year, the number of jobless
climbed 5.6 percent. The ministry reports jobless claims for
January later today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  