-- G-20’s Highest Interest Rate Too Low to Curb Brazil’s Inflation in Survey
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2012-02-24T12:43:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/g-20-s-highest-interest-rate-too-low-to-curb-brazil-s-inflation-in-survey.html
Brazil ’s inflation-adjusted interest
rate, the highest within the Group of 20 nations, is too low to
help the nation meet its price-growth target, a central bank
survey of economists shows.  The real interest rate needed to keep inflation on target
with the economy growing at a sustainable pace is 5.5 percent,
according to the median estimate in the  survey  published
yesterday. That is higher than Brazil’s current real rate of 4.3
percent.  Policy makers said last month there is a high chance they
will cut the benchmark Selic rate to less than 10 percent this
year, from the current 10.5 percent. Since August, the central
bank has cut the Selic four times, reduced taxes and pledged to
boost public investment to shield  Latin America ’s biggest
economy from European debt turmoil and ensure growth of 4.5
percent this year.  “The market doesn’t believe it is feasible to keep
 interest rates  at one digit for a long period,” said  Gustavo Rangel , chief Brazil economist for ING Financial Markets in  New
York . “This is what the neutral interest rate of 5.5 percent is
telling us.”  Traders are betting central bank President Alexandre Tombini will cut the Selic to at least 9.25 percent by July,
according to Bloomberg estimates based on interest rate futures.  Policy makers will need to reverse course and raise rates
again to 11 percent next year, to prevent inflation from picking
up, futures also show.  NAIRU  The yield on the interest rate future contract maturing in
January 2014, the most traded in  Sao Paulo  today, rose 6 basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 9.73 percent at 10:23 a.m.
in Brasilia, its biggest increase in three weeks. The real
strengthened 0.3 percent to 1.7087 per dollar.  The real neutral interest rate was 6.75 percent in November
2010, according to the median forecast in a previous central
bank survey. Brazil has the highest real interest rate in the
Group of 20 Nations.  The survey also found that the so-called NAIRU, or non-
accelerating inflation rate of unemployment, is 6.5 percent,
higher than the average jobless rate of 5.9 percent over the 12
months through January. The central bank did not say how many
analysts took part in the survey.  In its quarterly inflation report published Dec. 22, the
central bank said that the tight labor market is a “significant
but declining” risk for inflation.  Room to Cut  Speaking this month in Mumbai, Tombini said Brazil has room
to continue cutting its benchmark rate without fueling
inflation. Tombini has repeatedly pledged to slow inflation to
the 4.5 percent mid-point of its target range this year.  The country’s annual inflation rate fell to 6.22 percent in
January, from 6.5 percent in December, after exceeding the upper
limit of the target for eight months last year.  Analysts expect consumer prices to rise 5.24 percent this
year, and 5.02 percent next year, according to the median
forecast in a Feb. 17 central bank survey.  “For the central bank, the neutral interest is lower than
5.5 percent,” said  Jankiel Santos , chief economist at Espirito
Santo Investment Bank. “This means we’re going to continue to
see a discrepancy between inflation estimates by the market, and
those of the central bank.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  