-- Gasoline Rallies on Inventory Decline, Iran Uranium Production
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-02-24T20:23:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/gasoline-futures-rise-on-improving-economic-data-inventory-drop.html
Gasoline futures rose to the highest
level since July as stockpiles fell unexpectedly last week and
as crude oil rallied following a report that  Iran  tripled its
uranium production rate.  Futures advanced after Iran dismissed  United Nations  atomic
inspectors’ concerns over possible nuclear-weapon work and the
Persian Gulf nation tripled its quarterly rate of producing 20
percent-enriched uranium.  Inventories (DOESTMGS)  of gasoline declined
649,000 barrels to 231.5 million in the seven days ended Feb.
17, Energy Department data show.  “The biggest price drivers continue to be the geopolitical
events that are occurring throughout the  Middle East ,” said
 Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  March-delivery gasoline rose 3.92 cents, or 1.3 percent, to
$3.1528 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the
highest settlement since July 26. Gasoline has gained 4.5
percent this week and 17 percent in 2012.  Prices also increased as wholesale demand jumped 5.6
percent last week to 8.63 million barrels a day, Energy
Department data show. That’s the highest level since the week
ended Dec. 23.  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  said on Feb. 22 U.S. gasoline consumption
rose 3.4 percent last week to 8.28 million barrels a day. The
weekly SpendingPulse report showed demand increased from the
lowest level since it began collecting the data in 2004. Demand
was 6.4 percent below a year earlier.  Iran  Iran “dismissed the agency’s concerns,” the International
Atomic Energy Agency said today in an 11-page restricted
document obtained by Bloomberg News. “Iran considered them to
be based on unfounded allegations.”  The report, distributed to IAEA member states, was
published three days after inspectors’ talks with Iran broke
down. Inspectors said Iran raised the number of machines used to
install uranium at its Natanz complex by 14 percent and began
enriching material at its Fordo mountainside complex.  Turkiye Halk Bankasi AS (HALKB) , the Turkish bank that handles
payments for Iranian oil, may stop processing transactions for
supplies into Turkish plants from July amid tightening Western
sanctions against the the second-largest oil producer in OPEC.  “The Iranian part of the equation has a potential to be a
game-changer and that’s what I think is really powering this
market,”  Peter Beutel , the president of Cameronhanover.com in
New Canaan,  Connecticut , said by phone. “Now it looks like
until something happens people will keep buying.”  Nuclear Program  U.S. intelligence officials fear that Iran may be
developing the different components of a nuclear weapon in
scattered facilities, including Parchin and other military bases
where it hasn’t permitted IAEA inspections, said a U.S. official
who spoke only on the basis of anonymity because intelligence
matters are classified.  Refiners are working to ensure supplies of crude to replace
Iranian oil. Cia. Espanola de Petroleos SA,  Spain ’s second-
largest refiner, last week secured a guarantee for more crude
from the  United Arab Emirates  if Iranian exports are cut.  The U.S. has offered to help  India , which also uses Halk
for payments to Iran, get alternative supplies for the crude,
according to three people with knowledge of the matter. The U.S.
may help broker deals with suppliers such as Iraq and Saudi
Arabia, the people said, declining to be identified because the
information is confidential.  Indian refiners have been told that Halk’s services may
soon be terminated, four people with knowledge of the matter
said Jan. 10.  Pump Prices  Regular gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, rose 3.5
cents to $3.647 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA data.
Prices were 13 percent higher than a year earlier.  The government said yesterday heating oil and diesel
 inventories  fell 208,000 barrels to 143.5 million in the week
ended Feb. 17. Analysts forecast a 1.5 million-barrel decrease,
according to the survey.  Heating oil for March delivery rose 2.1 cents, or 0.6
percent, to settle at $3.3159 a gallon on the exchange, the
highest price since April 8. Prices have increased 4 percent
this week and 13 percent in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in New York at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  