-- Geithner Says Volcker Rule Likely to Provide Exceptions for Market-Making
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-02-24T15:56:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/geithner-says-he-s-confident-volcker-rule-to-allow-market-making.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said he’s confident regulators will be able to complete
the Volcker rule ban on proprietary trading while allowing
exceptions for market-making.  Geithner, in a CNBC television interview today, said he
thinks U.S. regulators will be able “to do what the law
requires -- that as we are limiting the risk these large
institutions pose to the world, could pose in the future --
we’re preserving well-designed, carefully constructed exceptions
for market-making hedging, as the law intended.”  The so-called Volcker rule, named for former Federal
Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , was included in the Dodd-Frank
Act to restrict risky trading at banks that operate with federal
guarantees. Central bankers and regulators from around the world
have voiced concern that the rule, which would apply to the U.S.
operations of foreign banks, may also extend to firms’
operations outside the country.  On  Europe , Geithner said it’s now “much less likely” that
the continent’s debt crisis will cause global contagion and
derail the U.S. economic recovery. Group of 20 finance
ministers, including Geithner, will discuss the European crisis
during meetings in Mexico City this weekend.  “Europe has made a lot of progress in trying to convince
investors around the world, in Europe, that they are going to do
what’s necessary to reduce the risk of a catastrophic financial
failure in Europe,” he said.  ECB Profits  The region’s finance ministers approved a 130 billion-euro
($172 billion) package for  Greece  on Feb. 21 by tapping into
European Central Bank profits and convincing investors to
provide more debt relief to the Mediterranean country.  Europe still has “more work to do,” Geithner told CNBC.
“The critical next step for them, as you’ve heard the Europeans
acknowledge, is to build a stronger firewall.”  Geithner reiterated the U.S. position that the
 International Monetary Fund  can play a larger role in Europe’s
recovery if the region “takes the necessary steps to put in
place for the world a sufficiently strong firewall.”  “What we don’t want to see is the IMF substitute, and it
really cannot substitute, for a stronger European response,” he
said. “Most countries around the world have the same view we
do.”  Geithner, 50, also said  oil prices  have risen because
global economic growth “is gradually getting stronger” and
 Iran  is doing some “saber-rattling, and that’s causing a little
uncertainty” in the oil market.  “Iran can do a lot of damage to the global economy,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ; 