-- German Economy Contracted in Quarter as Exports Declined
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-02-24T07:22:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/german-economy-contracted-in-fourth-quarter-as-exports-declined.html
Germany ’s fourth-quarter economic
contraction was caused by a decline in exports as the sovereign
debt crisis damped demand across the euro region.  Exports fell 0.8 percent from the third quarter, the
 Federal Statistics Office  in Wiesbaden said today. Gross
domestic product declined 0.2 percent, the office said,
confirming an initial estimate published on Feb. 15. Net trade
subtracted 0.3 percentage point from GDP in the quarter, today’s
detailed breakdown shows.  Europe ’s fiscal turmoil forced governments and consumers
across the 17-nation euro area to rein in spending, damping
demand for German goods in its biggest export market. Europe’s
largest economy may avoid a recession, defined as two successive
quarters of declining GDP. German business confidence jumped to
a seven-month high in February.  “The German economy is in a soft patch that it is going to
overcome,” said Gerd Hassel, an economist at BHF Bank in
 Frankfurt . “The fundamentals of the economy are different from
countries like  Spain  and Italy. They’re basically sound.”  Investment in plant and machinery in Germany rose 1.1
percent in the fourth quarter and construction spending jumped
1.9 percent, today’s report shows. Private consumption declined
0.2 percent while  government spending  increased 0.1 percent.
Domestic demand added 0.1 percentage point to GDP.  Euro-Area Divergence  After exiting the 2009 recession with a record 3.7 percent
growth in 2010 and 3 percent last year, the Bundesbank predicts
the German economy will expand 0.6 percent in 2012.  By contrast, the European Commission forecasts economic
contractions in Italy and Spain of 1.3 percent and 1 percent
respectively. The 17-nation euro economy will shrink 0.3 percent
this year, the commission said yesterday.  Demand from outside the euro region helped German factory
orders beat estimates in December. Investor confidence surged to
a 10-month high this month as global growth improved and
European leaders took steps to subdue the debt crisis.  “The picture is definitely better now than it was at the
end of last year,” said  Sarah Hewin , senior economist at
Standard Chartered Bank in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  