-- Italian Bonds Rise After Zero-Coupon Sale as Greece Prepares for Debt Swap
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-02-24T16:47:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/german-10-year-bund-yields-2-basis-points-from-1-week-low-as-gdp-shrinks.html
Italian bonds advanced, with 10-year
debt heading for a seventh week of gains, after the nation
raised its maximum amount at an auction of zero-coupon notes.  Spanish bonds gained for the seventh day before the
 European Central Bank  offers regional banks a second round of
three-year loans next week as it seeks to contain the sovereign
debt crisis. Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  said the
nation will issue a formal offer to investors to exchange their
holdings of government debt for new securities today.  “It was a very strong zero-coupon auction,” said  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate
& Investment Bank in London. The results are “indicative of
continued demand for shorter-maturity Italian paper over the
past couple of months.”  The Italian  10-year (GBTPGR10)  bond yield fell seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 5.48 percent at 4:24 p.m. London time,
extending this week’s decline to 10 basis points. The 5 percent
bond due March 2022 rose 0.475, or 4.75 euros per 1,000-euro
($1,346) face amount, to 96.895.  Two-year (GBTPGR2)  yields dropped 10
basis points to 2.82 percent.  Italy sold 3 billion euros of two-year, zero-coupon notes
at an average yield of 3.013 percent, down from 3.763 percent at
the previous offering on Jan. 26.  Spanish Bonds  The nation also auctioned 1.5 billion euros of inflation-
linked debt. The five-year break-even rate, derived from the
difference in yield between conventional and index-linked bonds,
widened as much as 41 basis points, to 1.59 percentage points,
the most since Aug. 3, and was last at 1.37 points.  Spanish bonds headed for a second weekly gain before the
ECB offers the second of its so-called longer-term refinancing
operations on Feb. 28.  European financial institutions may ask for 470 billion
euros of loans, compared to 489 billion euros in the previous
offering in December, according to the median of 28 estimates in
a Bloomberg News survey.  “The LTRO is the big event and overshadows the rest of the
landscape,” said  David Schnautz , a fixed-income strategist at
Commerzbank AG in London. “The overall  market sentiment  is
still positive.”  The Spanish 10-year  yield  fell three basis points to 5.05
percent, having dropped 21 basis points this week. The  two-year
notes  declined 10 basis points to 2.6 percent.  Greek Debt Swap  Greece  will today make a formal offer to holders of its
debt to take part in a swap for new securities, a government
official told reporters in  Athens .  A bank recapitalization provision will be submitted to
Parliament tomorrow and attached to a bill on prior actions
which is required for a second bailout package from the European
Union and  International Monetary Fund , according to the official
who declined to be named.  The bond exchange may occur on March 12 for those
securities currently governed by Greek law while bonds covered
under foreign laws will be exchanged in early April.  Investors will forgive 53.5 percent of their principal and
exchange their remaining holdings for new Greek  government bonds 
and notes from the European Financial Stability Facility.
Barclays Plc estimates the package to be worth around 26.6
percent of the bonds’ original value, according to an e-mailed
note to clients by Cagdas Aksu, a European rates strategist.  Greek notes maturing next month traded at 27.175 percent of
face value, from 37.54 on Feb. 17.  German GDP  German 10-year bund yields were within a basis point of the
lowest in a week after a government report confirmed Europe’s
biggest economy shrank last quarter.  The Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said gross
domestic product fell 0.2 percent from the third quarter.
Exports dropped 0.8 percent, the office said.  The German 10-year  yield  was little changed at 1.88 percent
after falling to 1.875 percent yesterday, the lowest level since
Feb. 16.  The extra  yield  investors demand to hold two-year Italian
notes instead of similar-maturity German debt shrunk to 2.58
percentage points from 4.92 percentage points on Dec. 22, the
day after the ECB’s previous funding operation was allotted.  Buying Opportunity  Cathay Life Insurance Co. said it plans to buy Italian and
Spanish debt, taking advantage of Italian yields five times
higher than those in  Taiwan .  “The sell-offs in  Europe  give us opportunities to buy,”
said Allen Lee, who helps oversees about $95 billion as deputy
manager at Taiwan’s biggest life insurer in Taipei. Italian and
Spanish “yields are attractive, especially if the contagion
risks of Greek problems are declining,” he said  Italian 10-year yields have fallen more than 2 percentage
points since climbing to a euro-era  record  high of 7.48 percent
in November.  Italy’s bonds have returned 9 percent this year, the second
best among 26 sovereign indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies without
adjusting for currency movements. Ireland’s bonds have the
greatest returns, at 10 percent.  The European Union is planning to sell 20-year bonds in
euros, according to a banker involved in the transaction. The
proceeds will be used for the aid package to Ireland. Citigroup
Inc., Deutsche Bank AG, DZ Bank AG, Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc and UBS AG are managing the sale, the banker said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Keith Jenkins  in  London  at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net . 