-- Goldman Bets on Rising Oil With Surging Supplies: Energy Markets
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   A a r o n   C l a r k
-- 2012-02-24T06:17:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/goldman-bets-on-rising-crude-oil-with-surging-u-s-supply-energy-markets.html
The highest U.S. oil production in
nine years is failing to dissuade  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  from
predicting that the price of the country’s most-traded crude
will keep climbing.  The New York-based bank says West Texas Intermediate will
gain 7 percent by August to trade within $5 a barrel of North
Sea Brent, even as rising output swells the nation’s inventories.
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  takes the opposite view, forecasting that WTI’s
discount to Brent may widen to $20 a barrel this year, from
about $15.79 yesterday.  “There’s a danger in trading the Brent-WTI spread right
now with any strong fundamental conviction,”  Olivier Jakob ,
managing director at Petromatrix GmbH, a Zug, Switzerland-based
oil researcher, said in a phone interview yesterday.  The outlook for WTI is being clouded by a deluge of oil to
Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for WTI futures, amid a
production boom that has cut America’s dependence on imports to
a more than-10-year low. The logjam is likely to be relieved in
June, when flows through the Seaway pipeline are reversed,
giving producers in Canada and  North Dakota  direct access to
refineries on the Gulf coast, according to Goldman Sachs, which
correctly forecast Brent would decline in April last year and
recover the following month.  Crude oil  for April delivery rose as much as 0.8 percent
to $108.70 a barrel in electronic trading today on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , bringing its gain this year to 9.8 percent.  Brent oil for April settlement increased as much as 0.5
percent to $124.28 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange
in  London , an advance of 15 percent this year.  Seaway Flows  “The spread between WTI and Brent will narrow with the
reversal of the Seaway pipeline,”  David Greely , the New York-
based head of energy research at Goldman Sachs, said in a report
on Feb. 22. “With the Seaway flowing from Cushing to the U.S.
 Gulf Coast , we expect WTI prices will be closely tied to Brent 
prices, with WTI likely trading at a $3 to $5 discount.”  WTI’s discount to Brent widened to a record $27.88 on Oct.
14 last year as U.S. oil shale production boosted supplies to
Cushing while the uprising against  Muammar Qaddafi  choked off
exports from Libya, driving up the European benchmark grade. The
average in the past nine years is $1.33.  Forward curves, which show monthly futures prices through
to the end of the decade for the two grades, currently indicate
that WTI will remain below Brent until at least 2020, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. oil production rose 3 percent last year to an average
of about 5.65 million barrels a day, the highest level since
2003, according to Energy Department data. Output will grow a
further 61 percent to 9.1 million barrels a day in 2015, the
most since the 1970s, Raymond James & Associates said in a
report on Feb. 13.  ‘Not Keeping Pace’  “The U.S. is choking on crude,” Seth Kleinman, the global
head of energy research at Citigroup in London, said in a phone
interview. “There are points where the infrastructure build-out
is just not keeping pace. Can Seaway clean up Cushing? Seaway
can tighten the arbitrage, possibly, in the short-term. But in
2013, there’s going to be another 500,000 to 800,000 barrels a
day of oil.”  Much of the new North American oil production “will remain
landlocked, and therefore heavily discounted,” Kleinman said in
a Feb. 15 report. Infrastructure won’t catch up until “mid-
decade at the earliest, and perhaps not until much later.”  Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  and  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  said on
Nov. 16 that they would reverse flows through the 500-mile (805-
kilometer) Seaway link from June. That may initially divert
150,000 barrels a day out of the region, and then as much as
400,000 a day early next year, helping to clear the surplus that
has depressed WTI in relation to Brent, Goldman Sachs said.  “The risk-reward over the next several months favors a
long position in the WTI contracts following the reversal of the
Seaway pipeline,” Greely said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Clark  in New York at 
 aclark27@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on 
 sev@bloomberg.net  