-- Greek Government’s Official Terms for Bond Swap With Creditors: Statement
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-24T17:44:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/greek-government-s-official-terms-for-bond-swap-with-creditors-statement.html
Following is a copy of the Greek
government’s press release outlining the terms of an invitation
for a debt swap with creditors. It was published in  Athens .
Click  here  for a full copy including the annexes.  “The Ministerial Council of the Hellenic Republic today
approved the terms of invitations to be made to private sector
holders outside the United States of bonds issued or guaranteed
by the Republic and selected to participate in the exchange
offers and/or consent solicitations to be made by the Republic
in furtherance of the 26 October 2011 Euro Summit Statement and
the 21 February 2012 Eurogroup Statement, referred to as the
Private Sector Involvement. The bonds invited to participate in
PSI (listed by series in Annex I) have an aggregate outstanding
face amount of approximately Euro 206 billion.  “The exchange offers and/or consent solicitations will
permit private sector holders to exchange bonds selected to
participate in PSI for (i) new bonds to be issued by the
Republic on the PSI settlement date having a face amount equal
to 31.5% of the face amount of their exchanged bonds, (ii)
European Financial Stability Facility notes with a maturity date
of two years or less from the PSI settlement date and having a
face amount equal to 15% of the face amount of their exchanged
bonds, and (iii) detachable GDP-linked securities issued by the
Republic having a notional amount equal to the face amount of
each holder’s new bonds. On the PSI settlement date, the
Republic will also deliver short-term EFSF notes in discharge of
all unpaid interest accrued up to 24 February 2012 on exchanged
bonds. The terms of the new bonds, GDP-linked securities and
EFSF notes are summarized in Annex II.  “The consent solicitation relating to Greek-law governed
bonds issued by the Republic prior to 31 December, 2011 (having
an aggregate outstanding amount of approximately Euro 177
billion) will seek the consent of the affected holders to the
amendment of these bonds in reliance on Law 4050/2012 (the Greek
Bondholder Act) enacted by the Greek Parliament on 23 February
2012. The proposed amendments provide for the redemption of the
affected bonds in exchange for the PSI consideration described
above. Under the collective action procedures 2
introduced by the Greek Bondholder Act, the proposed amendments
will become binding on the holders of all the Republic’s Greek-
law governed bonds issued prior to 31 December 2011 identified
in the act of the Ministerial Council approving the PSI
invitations, if at least two thirds by face amount of a quorum
of these bonds, voting collectively without distinction by
series, approve the proposed amendments. One half by face amount
of all the Republic’s bonds subject to the collective action
procedures will constitute a quorum for these purposes. The
Republic will also separately solicit consents in favour of
equivalent amendments from the holders of its foreign-law
governed bonds and its foreign-law guaranteed bonds in
accordance with the terms of those bonds.  “To satisfy regulatory requirements applicable in a number
of jurisdictions, the Republic will invite the holders of
certain series of bonds to participate in the Republic’s
exchange offer but not its consent solicitation, and holders of
the Republic’s Swiss-law governed bonds may not exchange their
bonds but will be solicited to consent to their amendment.
Holders will receive substantially the same consideration
irrespective of whether they participate in the exchange offer
and/or a consent solicitation. The Republic also intends to
invite holders in the  United States  of America to participate in
a concurrent exchange offer and consent solicitation on
substantially the same terms. The Republic will not, however,
deliver any EFSF notes to holders in the  United States of
America , who will instead be paid the cash proceeds realized
from the sale of the EFSF notes they would otherwise have
received.  “The full terms of each invitation will be made available
in electronic form only through www.greekbonds.gr. In order to
participate in an invitation, holders will need to comply with
the procedures and offer and distribution restrictions described
in the Republic’s related invitation memorandum available online
at www.greekbonds.gr.  “The invitations will be subject to certain conditions,
including a financing condition and a minimum participation
condition. Under the financing condition, the Republic will not
proceed with any of the transactions contemplated in the
invitations unless it meets all of the conditions under the
financing agreements entered into with the EFSF for the Republic
to be entitled to receive the EFSF notes, which include the
approval by EWG, at its absolute discretion, of such
disbursements.  “In addition, unless bonds representing at least 90% of
the aggregate face amount of all bonds selected to participate
in PSI are validly tendered for exchange, the Republic will not
be required to settle any of the exchanges. However, if the
Republic receives consents to the proposed amendments that would
result in at least 90% of the aggregate face amount of all bonds
selected to participate in PSI (including bonds tendered for
exchange) being exchanged on the terms proposed by the Republic,
the Republic intends, subject to all other conditions being
satisfied and in consultation with its official sector
creditors, to declare the proposed amendments effective and to
complete the exchange of all bonds selected to participate in
PSI that would be bound by the proposed amendments.  “If at least 75% but less than 90% of the aggregate face
amount of all bonds selected to participate in PSI are validly
tendered for exchange, the Republic, in consultation with its
official sector creditors, may proceed to exchange the tendered
bonds without putting any of the proposed amendments into
effect. However, if less than 75% of the aggregate face amount
of the bonds selected to participate in PSI are validly tendered
for exchange, and the Republic does not receive consents that
would enable it to complete the proposed exchange with respect
to bonds selected to participate in PSI representing at least
75% of the aggregate face amount of all bonds selected to
participate in PSI, the Republic will not proceed with any of
the transactions described above.  “Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch, and HSBC Bank plc have
been appointed to act as Closing Agents for the invitations made
outside the United States. Bondholder Communications Group LLC
and Hellenic Exchanges, S.A. have been appointed to act as the
joint Information, Exchange and Tabulation Agent.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  