-- Greece Collective Action Clauses Risk Triggering Default Swaps
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2012-02-24T18:19:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/greece-collective-action-clauses-in-agreement-risk-triggering-debt-swaps.html
Greece ’s debt restructuring would
trigger credit-default swaps insuring $3.2 billion of bonds if
the government uses clauses designed to mop up investors
unwilling to take part.  Greece published the formal offer document today for its
agreement to exchange bonds for new securities, with investors
taking a haircut of 53.5 percent. The restructuring uses so-
called collective action clauses to discourage holdouts, the use
of which would trigger credit-default swap insurance contracts
on the nation’s debt, according to the rules of the
International Swaps & Derivatives Association.  Greece negotiated the biggest debt restructuring in history
as it seeks to reduce national debt to 120 percent of gross
domestic product by 2020, from 160 percent last year, and to
meet the terms of a 130 billion-euro ($170 billion)
international bailout. An agreed debt swap, known as private-
sector involvement, or PSI, will slice 100 billion euros off
more than 200 billion euros of privately held debt if all
investors participate.  “Anything that can help second bailout is going to be seen
as positive,” said Harpreet Parhar, a strategist at Credit
Agricole SA.  Outstanding Contracts  A total of 4,263 contracts were outstanding as of Feb. 17,
according to the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp., which runs a
central registry for the market.  It now costs $7.2 million upfront and $100,000 annually to
insure $10 million of Greek debt for five years using the swaps,
according to CMA. The 93 percent probability of default within
that time assumes investors recover 22 percent of their
holdings.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The introduction of CACs doesn’t in itself trigger default
swaps, though using them does, according to ISDA. Credit events
that trigger swaps can be caused by a reduction in principal or
interest, postponement or deferral of payments, or a change in
the ranking or currency of obligations.  Any of these must result from a deterioration in
creditworthiness, apply to multiple investors and be binding on
all holders. ISDA’s determinations committee rules whether
contracts can be tripped.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  