-- Greece Invites Investors to Debt Swap, Biggest Restructuring
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2012-02-24T19:22:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/greece-invites-investors-to-swap-restructuring.html
Greece ’s government formally asked
investors to exchange their holdings of government debt for new
securities in the biggest sovereign restructuring in history.  “The Ministerial Council of the Hellenic Republic today
approved the terms of invitations to be made to private sector
holders,” the Ministry of Finance said in a  statement  on a
website set up for the exchange. The bonds subject to the
invitation had a total face value of about 206 billion euros.  The government seeks a 90 percent participation rate and
set a 75 percent rate as a threshold for proceeding with the
transaction, according to the statement.  Parliament approved laws yesterday to permit the exchange
and cut 106 billion euros ($143 billion) of the country’s  debt .
Private creditors gave their backing earlier this week as euro
area finance ministers weighed a 130 billion-euro package for
the nation, its second rescue.  Charles Dallara , who represented private bondholders in
debt-writedown talks with the government, said he expects a
majority of investors will agree to a voluntary bond swap.  “I’m quite optimistic,” Dallara, the managing director of
the  Institute of International Finance , told reporters in Mexico
City today ahead of a meeting tomorrow of finance officials from
the Group of 20 nations. He said that he expects “a high take-
up” among bondholders.  Averting a Collapse  The swap is required to secure the European bailout and is
geared toward averting the collapse of the  Greek economy  and
default by a member of the euro. The exchange must be completed
before March 20, when the country has to redeem 14.5 billion
euros of bonds. In return, Greece has promised 3.2 billion euros
of public-spending cuts. Interest payments on the new securities
are set to start March 12.  “The dilemma we are faced with is cuts so that we can
stand on our own two feet, to save the country’s pension system
and pensions, or economic collapse,” Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos told opposition party lawmakers in Parliament today.
Without the debt swap, the country’s pension funds would be
wiped out, he said.  The nation’s debt was forecast to balloon to almost double
the size of its shrinking economy this year without the write-
off, the European Commission said in November.  ‘Titanic’ Effort  There’s a “titanic” effort under way to push through
plans to reduce wages for civil servants and cut spending on
defense, education and health care, Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  said today at a Cabinet meeting in Athens.  Investors will forgive 53.5 percent of their principal and
exchange the remaining holdings for Greek  government bonds  and
notes from the European Financial Stability Facility. The coupon
on the new bonds was set at 2 percent until February 2015, 3
percent for the following five years, 3.65 percent for 2021 and
4.3 percent until 2042.  Bondholders will exchange 31.5 percent of their principal
into 20 new Greek government bonds with maturities of 11 to 30
years and the remaining 15 percent into short-dated securities
issued by the EFSF. The new securities will be governed by
 English law .  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and HSBC Holdings Plc were appointed as
closing agents for the exchange outside the U.S., according to
the document. U.S. bondholders would receive cash instead of
EFSF notes.  Fitch Ratings  on Feb. 22 cut Greece’s credit grade two
levels after the country got approval to proceed with the
exchange, reducing the long-term foreign and local currency
issuer default ratings to C from CCC.  ‘Distressed Debt Exchange’  “The proposal to reduce Greece’s public debt burden via a
debt exchange with private creditors will, if completed,
constitute a rating default,” Fitch said in a statement. “The
exchange, if completed, would constitute a distressed debt
exchange.”  Fitch said the country will get a “restricted default”
rating after the swap starts, one level above “default.” Once
the transaction is completed, it will be moved out of that
category and “re-rated at a level consistent with the agency’s
assessment of its post-default structure and credit profile,”
Fitch said.  The country’s central government debt, which doesn’t
include debt from local government organizations, state-run
companies or pension funds, was 368 billion euros at the end of
2011, the ministry said today, amounting to 171 percent of the
economy, according to Bloomberg calculations. The swap is meant
to help reduce the debt to 120.5 percent of gross domestic
product by 2020.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net 
Natalie Weeks in  Athens  at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  