-- Green Biologics to Raise $6 Million for Brazil Butanol Facility
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2012-02-24T18:45:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/green-biologics-to-raise-6-million-for-brazil-butanol-facility.html
Green Biologics Ltd., the U.K.
biotechnology company, plans to raise $6 million by mid-April
and will use some of the funds to develop a demonstration plant
in  Brazil  that will convert crops into butanol.  Green Biologics has raised half that amount from existing
investors, Chief Executive Officer Sean Sutcliffe said in an
interview at Bloomberg’s Sao Paulo office. The company expects
to complete the plant by the end of the year, he said.  Green Biologics uses microbes to convert organic material
into butanol, a four-carbon molecule that can be processed into
specialty chemicals or used as a transportation fuel. The
Oxfordshire, U.K.-based company is seeking customers in Brazil
where its technology will appeal to sugar-cane mills that want
to develop new sources of revenue, he said.  Brazil offers “a large number of sugar mills and ethanol
distilleries with existing assets whose profitability would be
substantially enhanced using our technology,” Sutcliffe said
yesterday in an e-mail. The country “should be the green
chemical capital of the world.”  The demonstration plant will be able to produce 1,000
metric tons of butanol a year from crop residues, he said.  Green Biologics plans to spend $30 million to install its
technology next year at an existing mill in Brazil that will
turn sugar-cane juice and molasses into butanol. The chemical,
which is typically made from petroleum, is worth $1,800 a ton,
more than twice the price of ethanol, he said. The global annual
market for butanol is about $10 billion, he said.  “We could compete on price with petroleum-based
products,” he said. Brazil offers “probably the lowest
production cost feedstocks in the world.”  The company may later install technology to produce butanol
from bagasse, the crushed cane stalks that are typically burned
to generate steam and power to run plants’ operations, he said.  The first plant to use Green Biologics technology to make
butanol on a commercial scale will begin production in  China  in
the second half of this year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  