-- Gunfire Erupts as Afghans Protest for Fourth Day Over U.S. Koran Burning
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a
-- 2012-02-24T22:11:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/gunfire-erupts-as-afghans-protest-burning-of-koran-at-main-u-s-air-base.html
Demonstrations in  Afghanistan 
protesting the burning of the Koran at a U.S. base intensified
for a fourth day yesterday even after repeated American
apologies for the mistreatment of the Islamic holy book.  The Afghan Ministry of Interior reported that nine
protesters were killed and 16 demonstrators and 12 Afghan
National Police were wounded yesterday in stone-throwing and
exchanges of gunfire in 13 of the country’s 34 provinces.  Herat province in western Afghanistan had the highest death
toll, with six protesters and one policeman killed, the ministry
said. In addition, two U.S. soldiers were shot February 23 by a
man in an Afghan army uniform, said Ahmed Zia Abdulzai, the
government spokesman in the eastern province of Nangarhar.  In Pul-e-Khumri, the capital of northern Baghlan province,
one protester was killed and three others were wounded when
Afghan police and Hungarian soldiers fired on hundreds of men
who besieged the local base of NATO’s  International Security
Assistance Force , or ISAF, said Ahmad Besharat, the provincial
police spokesman, in a phone interview.  The violence has raised new questions about the Obama
administration’s assertions of progress in Afghanistan and that
Afghan government and security forces can maintain stability and
defeat the Taliban as the U.S. and its NATO allies withdraw
combat forces.  A German defense ministry spokesman said yesterday the
protests prompted  Germany  to withdraw its troops from a small
base in northern Takhar province that it had planned to vacate
in about a month, the  Associated Press  reported from Berlin. The
troops moved to a larger German base in the nearby province of
Kunduz.  Obama’s Apology  President  Barack Obama ’s apology to Afghan President  Hamid Karzai , expressing regret for damage to the Korans, drew
criticism from some Republicans.  “The president apologized for the burning, but I haven’t
seen the president demand that the government of Afghanistan
apologize for the killing of two young Americans,” Republican
presidential candidate  Newt Gingrich  said yesterday on  MSNBC ’s
Andrew Mitchell Reports.  White House spokesman  Josh Earnest  told reporters yesterday
that the president thought it was in the best interest of U.S.
forces and civilians in Afghanistan to apologize to Karzai.  Taliban leaders issued a statement February 23 urging
Afghans to spurn U.S. apologies and step up attacks against
Americans.  Karzai has appealed for calm, asking people to await the
outcome of the investigation. While an ISAF officer, German
Brigadier General Carsten Jacobson, told reporters the force
hoped to issue an account swiftly on how the incident unfolded,
the coalition hasn’t reported results.  The violence is the second time in a year that riots have
erupted across Afghanistan over the perceived desecration of the
Koran by Americans. The burning of a Koran by a pastor in
 Florida  in March led to four days of riots in which 24 people
died, including two U.S. soldiers shot by an Afghan policeman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  