-- Miami Heat Defeat Jeremy Lin’s Knicks for Eighth Straight Victory in NBA
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-02-24T05:41:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/miami-heat-defeat-jeremy-lin-s-knicks-for-eighth-straight-victory-in-nba.html
Jeremy Lin called the  New York
Knicks ’ 102-88 loss to the Miami Heat “a learning experience.”  Lin connected on one of 11 field goal attempts and missed
both of his 3-pointers at AmericanAirlines Arena in Miami last
night. He ended the game with eight points after going 6-for-6
at the free-throw line.  “A tough one,” Lin told reporters.  The Knicks have won nine of 12 games since Lin started
running the offense Feb. 4 after spending most of his first two
seasons in the  National Basketball Association  on the bench. Six
of those wins were at Madison Square Garden and none of the
three road victories has been against a team with a winning
record.  Chris Bosh ,  Dwyane Wade  and LeBron James led the Heat,
scoring 25, 22 and 20 points respectively as Miami notched its
eighth straight victory to improve to 27-7, tied with the
Oklahoma City Thunder for the best record in the league.
Oklahoma City last night beat the Los Angeles Lakers 100-85.  The Knicks are second in the Eastern Conference’s five-team
Atlantic Division, 3 1/2 games behind the  Philadelphia 76ers .  Dealing with Lin was a central part of Miami’s game plan,
Wade said. Lin, a Harvard University graduate, has averaged 22.6
points and 8.7 assists in 12 games.  “He deserves all of the credit he’s been given,” Wade
said during a televised interview. “He’s a good player, but we
put a lot of pressure on him and it was a success.”  Attacking Trio  Carmelo Anthony had 19 points, reserve J.R. Smith scored 14
and Amar’e Stoudemire added 13 for the Knicks (17-18), showing
that  New York ’s sole threat isn’t Lin, Wade added.  “We got more guys to think about,” he said. “They got
Amar’e, Carmelo, J.R. They got so many guys.”  The teams traded the lead throughout the first half before
the Heat opened a 51-47 halftime advantage. Miami took command
in the third quarter, outscoring the Knicks 29-19.  Knicks coach  Mike D’Antoni  said the Heat’s defense was
ready for Lin, who had three assists, six rebounds and eight
turnovers.  “I’m sure they were all geeked up for him,” D’Antoni told
reporters. “They took the challenge and they did a great job.
It’s hard to be Peter Pan every day.”  It was the perfect way to go into the All-Star break, Bosh
said. Miami next plays at the  Portland Trail Blazers  on March 1,
while the Knicks face the  Cleveland Cavaliers  on Feb. 29.  “It’s always big when the Knicks come,” Bosh said. “They
have that New York-Miami thing. The crowd enjoyed it and we
enjoyed it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  