-- IFC in Talks With Banks Over Funding, as Part of Vienna II
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-02-24T12:14:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/ifc-in-talks-with-banks-over-funding-as-part-of-vienna-ii.html
The  International Finance
Corporation , the  World Bank ’s investment unit, is in talks with
some six banks to provide funding under the so-called Vienna II
initiative on keeping stability in eastern Europe’s economies
through continued lending, said Tomasz Telma, an IFC director.  The Washington-based lender is negotiating different types
of financing arrangements with the banks, including equity
participation, which will help them cope with Europe’s new
capital rules while avoiding a credit shortage, Telma, who
oversees Europe and central  Asia , said in an interview in
Bucharest yesterday.  “We remain open to increase our activity and we have
looked on how much we can do in the countries that are
potentially covered by the initiative,” Telma said. “It will
be ultimately bilateral arrangements with individual banks that
may need us for one instrument or another in a particular market
and we are seeing quite a bit of interest in that.”  The Vienna Initiative group of regulators and policy makers
plan to hold talks in March with the banks over a new accord as
they try to shield economic growth in eastern  Europe  against
contagion from the euro area’s deepening debt crisis. A first
Vienna accord helped in 2009 stabilize the region as the banks
didn’t pull out their money.  Romanian central bank Deputy Governor Cristian Popa said on
Feb. 7 that the new accord should be a binding agreement focused
on banking groups and not individual countries.  The IFC has about 2 billion euros ($2.7 billion) to support
the financial industry this year and may provide long-term
credits, subordinated loans, equity participation or trade-
financing lines, according to Telma.  Not All About Equity  “It’s not all about equity because in some cases” it’s
not required, Telma said. “There might be a case of a bank that
because of  capital requirements  may have a difficult time
providing additional capital to its operations” in a country
and the IFC can “help with that in order to create the basis
for continued growth.”  The European Banking Authority told banks, such as
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  and  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA,
which control three-quarters of eastern Europe’s banking system,
to have core capital reserves of 9 percent by the end of June
after writing down their holdings of sovereign debt. That may
require an additional 115 billion euros of capital, according to
the EBA.  Disorderly Deleveraging  In the “short-term the capital adequacy ratios of these
banks are quite generous and in many cases it is a question of
some banks taking the opportunity to capture additional market
share,” Telma said. “The condition of many daughter banks is
quite good, so it’s not a matter of helping them survive some
kind of particular worries, concerns or crisis, but it’s a way
to help them continue growing and funding the companies.”  The risk of “excessive and disorderly deleveraging as well
as a credit crunch” looms over the region, the Vienna
Initiative group of regulators and policy makers said in a
statement on Jan. 18. The  International Monetary Fund , the
 European Bank for Reconstruction and Development , the World Bank
and the  European Investment Bank , which spent about $42 billion
after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holding Inc., should
“stand ready to provide external assistance and financial
support to banks,” the group said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  