-- IIF’s Dallara Says Europe Needs to Boost Short-Term Growth
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-02-24T19:41:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/iif-says-europe-needs-to-boost-short-term-growth-amid-austerity.html
The  Institute of International
Finance  urged European policy makers to support the region’s
short-term growth, which is being threatened by their efforts to
decrease debt levels.  While policy makers in the 17-country euro area have made
progress addressing their debt crisis, the austerity measures
under way will at first depress growth that’s already
“subpar,” IIF Managing Director  Charles Dallara  wrote in a
letter to Mexican Finance Minister Jose Antonio Meade, who will
chair a meeting of Group of 20 finance ministers and central
bank governors this weekend.  “Mitigating the impact of fiscal austerity is key:
countries that have fiscal space to allow adjustment to be more
gradual should take advantage of it,” wrote Dallara, whose
organization represents more than 450 financial firms.  G-20 finance ministers and central bank governors are
meeting in Mexico City four days after euro-area governments
sanctioned a 130 billion-euro ($175 billion) aid package for
 Greece  and amid warnings by the  International Monetary Fund  that
concerns about debt sustainability could drag the world into
another recession. The IMF forecasts that the economy of the
euro region will contract 0.5 percent this year.  “World growth is expected to slow this year,  Europe  is in
recession and the sovereign debt crisis, despite recent positive
developments--most notably agreement on Greece’s adjustment
program and voluntary debt restructuring--remains largely
unresolved,” said Dallara, who negotiated the Greek debt swap
on behalf of private bondholders.  “With many countries facing fiscal constraints amidst
ongoing risks to growth and financial stability, there is a
strong case to be made for further enhancement of the IMF’s
resources,” he added.  The IIF’s recommendations to the G-20 also include a call
for a “more balanced regulatory environment,” arguing that
constraints on lenders can weigh on credit growth.  The Washington-based organization said the proposed Volcker
Rule, which would ban banks from proprietary trading, should be
revised. International governments, including  Japan ,  Canada  and
the European Union, have sent letters to the Treasury Department
and U.S. regulators warning about the rule’s extraterritorial
reach and its affect on global liquidity.  ’’Proposed U.S. regulations to implement the Volcker rule
need revision even within the constraints of the Dodd-Frank Act-
-they would have a broadly negative impact on global financial-
market liquidity,’’ Dallara wrote. He urged the G-20 to signal
the need to avoid regulatory fragmentation.  Today, U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said in
an interview that he is confident that regulators will be able
to complete the Volcker Rule while allowing exemptions for
market-making as the law intended.  Dallara also asked for a delay in the capital surcharge for
the global systemic banks until January 2018 in light of
’’significant difficulties in raising capital.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Mexico City at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Mexico City at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  