-- Impala Says Zimbabwe Rejects Part of Local-Ownership Plan
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-02-24T18:16:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/impala-platinum-says-zimbabwe-rejects-part-of-mimosa-indigenization-plan.html
(Corrects to 39-month low in first paragraph.)  Aquarius Platinum Ltd. (AQP) , the fourth-
largest producer of the metal, fell to a 39-month low in
Johannesburg as Zimbabwe rejected a joint proposal with  Impala
Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  to meet local ownership rules.  Aquarius declined 6.4 percent to 16.50 rand, the lowest
close since Nov. 20, 2008. Impala, which has a smaller
proportion of its assets in Zimbabwe, gained. They were told of
the rejection in a letter from Indigenization Minister  Saviour Kasukuwere  dated Feb. 22, Impala said. The country is forcing
foreign companies to cede or sell 51 percent of local assets to
black Zimbabweans or government-approved agencies.  Impala, the world’s second-largest platinum producer, and
Aquarius jointly own Zimbabwe’s Mimosa mine, producing about
100,000 ounces of platinum in concentrate a year. Impala
produces about 15 percent of its metal in  Zimbabwe  while the
country accounts for about 22 percent of Aquarius’s output.  “It’s a far larger percentage contributor in Aquarius than
it is to Impala,” Mohil Bandulal, Sasfin Securities’ head
trader, said by phone from Durban. “The concern is because
Aquarius is a smaller business relative to Impala, it will be
under more pressure if there is an indigenization.”  Impala gained 0.8 percent to 167.60 rand.  Impala, also known as Implats, and Aquarius will hold talks
with the minister, the companies said in separate statements.  Cede Shareholding  “Implats is concerned to note the statement by the
Minister that unless an agreement is reached with the National
Indigenisation and Economic Empowerment Fund to transfer the
required shareholding to NIEEF within 30 days, enforcement
mechanisms will be activated,” Impala said in a statement.  Zimbabwe ordered Impala to cede its shareholding in Mimosa,
the state-run Sunday Mail said Feb. 19, citing Kasukuwere. The
state wants Aquarius to own 49 percent of the mine, with the
rest held by black Zimbabweans, Kasukuwere told the newspaper.  “The Zimbabwe part of Implats has already been priced in
by the market before this so there was no room for it to be
priced in further,” Mia Kruger, a Johannesburg-based portfolio
manager at Kruger International, said by phone.  Impala is already losing about 3,000 ounces of platinum a
day after its Rustenburg operation in  South Africa , the world’s
largest platinum mine, halted output Jan. 30 on a pay dispute.  Plan Rejected  Impala also owns 87 percent of Zimplats Holdings, with an
annual capacity of about 180,000 ounces of platinum at three
underground mines. Zimbabwe rejected Zimplats’s proposal for
local ownership last year. In a separate statement after the
market closed, Impala said Zimplats had been advised by the
country’s government that a portion of its revised plan to sell
a stake to local citizens had been rejected.  South Africa and Zimbabwe hold more than three-quarters of
global reserves of the metal.  More than 50 foreign-owned miners may lose their licenses
because they haven’t submitted acceptable proposals, the Harare-
based Herald newspaper said Sept. 8. Proposals by  Nestle SA (NESN)  and
Cargill Inc. were also rejected last year, it said.  “Enforcement or cancellation of mining rights has to be
enacted by the Minister of Mines and Mining Development,” BMO
Research said in a note today. “It is unclear what enforcement
mechanisms the Ministry for Indigenisation can take.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  