-- Lin Rookie Card Brings $22K After $1K Purchase
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-02-24T16:25:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/lin-rookie-card-brings-22k-after-1k-purchase.html
A rookie card for  New York  Knicks
guard Jeremy Lin sold on EBay Inc. for $21,580 two weeks after
changing hands for $1,000.  Yair Rozmaryn, a Knicks’ season-ticket holder from New
York, had purchased the card on Feb. 8 two days after the 23-
year-old Lin’s first National Basketball Association start.  Lin, a Harvard University economics graduate, has risen
from an undrafted player cut by two other teams to the most
sought-after corporate player at the NBA’s All-Star Weekend in
 Orlando ,  Florida , after leading the Knicks to an 8-3 record as a
starter.  Rozmaryn said he was impressed by Lin’s play and appeal to
a large audience. He cited Lin’s style of play, his Asian
ancestry and the size of the New York market, the biggest in the
U.S.  “I figured this could really blow up, so I took a
calculated risk,” said Rozmaryn, a 29-year-old client delivery
manager at information technology company  Mitchell Martin Inc.   The card, which contains a Lin autograph and a piece of the
guard’s jersey, had 36 bids during the seven-day  online auction ,
which ended yesterday at 3:40 p.m. New York time. The buyer, a
San Francisco man who Rozmaryn declined to identify, placed the
winning bid in the last 10 seconds of the auction and hasn’t
made further contact, according to the seller.  Another  New Yorker , identified by the New York Post as
Pamela Schecter, paid $42,388 in a charity auction this week for
a package that included a game-worn Lin jersey, Knicks tickets
and a chance to meet the player.  Heat Defeat  Lin scored at least 20 points in eight of his first nine
starts. He struggled last night in a 102-88 loss to the  Miami
Heat , going 1-for-11 from the floor with eight turnovers and
eight points.  Rozmaryn said the so-called Linsanity label that the Knicks
and news media have used to describe the player’s rush of
success had a chance to continue and push the card’s value
higher.  “If the Knicks make a playoff run or somehow make it to a
championship in the next couple years, this is the guy that is
going to be a driving force,” he said in a telephone interview.
“This card has a lot of potential to move in the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  