-- Lin Wins Most Valuable Corporate Player Label From NBA Sponsors
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-02-24T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/lin-wins-most-valuable-corporate-player-label-from-nba-sponsors.html
Jeremy Lin, with a salary about 5
percent of LeBron James’s, is the most valuable player at the
 National Basketball Association ’s midseason gathering of slam
dunks and sponsor schmoozing.  The Harvard University economics graduate has lured record
television audiences and attention from Adidas AG, the NBA’s
jersey maker. His agent says he was overwhelmed by sponsor
offers since Lin became the starting point guard for the  New
York Knicks  on Feb. 6 and led a winning run. Lin was also a late
addition to tonight’s Rising Stars Challenge between first- and
second-year players in the start of All-Star Weekend’s on-court
activities.  The timing of Lin’s success, the so-called Linsanity the
Knicks and media have used to label the hoopla surrounding the
23-year-old, is what makes him so valuable. The league uses All-
Star Weekend, this year in Orlando,  Florida , to court business
with existing and would-be business partners.  “He’s the NBA player who is completely relatable to the
sponsors,” Robert Boland, chairman of the sports management
program at New York University’s Tisch Center, said in a
telephone interview. “He should be everywhere doing
everything.”  Lin was cut by two NBA teams before joining the Knicks,
whose chances of winning the league title are 18-1, down from
40-1 before his first game, according to Bovada.lv, an online
sports book based in  Panama .  Sudden Streak  Lin signed with New York in December and got his first
significant playing time on Feb. 4 against the  New Jersey Nets ,
posting 25 points, seven assists and five rebounds in a win. He
then joined the starting lineup and led the Knicks to six
consecutive wins, including one against the  Los Angeles Lakers 
in which he topped Bryant, the league’s leading scorer, 38-34.
Bryant, the NBA’s highest-paid player at about $25 million this
season, has been picked for 14 All-Star Games.  Last night in Miami, Lin, with a $780,000, one-year
contract, made his 11th career start, against the Heat and
James, a former NBA MVP who makes $16 million a season. New York
lost 102-88, leaving Lin’s record as a starter at 8-3 and the
Knicks 17-18 for the season.  Tickets for the Knicks-Heat game were priced as high as
$9,400 for resale, according to TiqIQ, an event ticket
aggregator on for the online secondary market.  While Rising Stars Challenge tickets are part of a weekend-
long package, the game was leading a 30 percent increase in
inquiries for the three-day event, with some prospective buyers
wanting tonight’s contest alone, according to Brian Learst,
chief executive office of QuintEvents, the NBA’s  official
hospitality provider  for All-Star Weekend.  Ratings Records  Lin has spurred record ratings on MSG Corp.’s MSG network.
The cable outlet on Feb. 18 ended a seven-week stalemate with
 Time Warner (TWC)  Cable Inc. that kept the provider’s 2.8 million New
York-area subscribers from seeing the Knicks.  David Joyce , an
analyst at New York-based Miller Tabak & Co., cited Lin’s
success as helping to pressure the two sides into an agreement.  Lin’s agent,  Roger Montgomery , says he’s been inundated
with e-mails and telephone calls from companies seeking to hire
the guard, who is of Taiwanese descent, as an endorser. He
declined to name any of the companies and said Lin would be
selective.  “This is the great thing in sports,” Herbert Hainer,
chief executive officer of Adidas, said in an interview. “Young
athletes come up that you didn’t know six months before.”  The NBA says it doesn’t have Lin’s schedule for All-Star
weekend. The annual All-Star Game is set for Feb. 26.  ‘Through the Roof’  “I’m sure the requests for his appearances will be through
the roof,” Russ Granik, a former NBA deputy commissioner and
now vice chairman of New York-based Galatioto Sports Partners
LLC, said via e-mail.  Hainer wouldn’t comment on whether Herzogenaurach, Germany-
based  Adidas (ADS) , the world’s second-largest sporting-goods maker
and the exclusive supplier of NBA uniforms, would attempt to
sign Lin as an endorser. Lin has a contract with Nike Inc.,
though he’s never been the centerpiece of a campaign.  NBA Commissioner  David Stern  said there is a lot of
attention being paid in the U.S. and  China  to Lin, whose No. 17
jersey is the league’s No. 1 seller and who has appeared on the
cover of  Sports Illustrated  the last two issues.  “It’s fair to say no player has created the interest and
frenzy in this short period of time in any sport like Jeremy Lin
has,” Stern said yesterday while attending the opening ceremony
for the All-Star Jam Session.  Adidas should start selling Lin jerseys this week in China,
the world’s most populous nation where 300 million people say
they are basketball fans, said Hainer, whose company’s endorsers
include NBA Most Valuable Player  Derrick Rose  of the Chicago
Bulls and  Dwight Howard  of the  Orlando  Magic.  “Jeremy Lin definitely has some potential” as an
endorser, Hainer said. “This is good for basketball, good for
China, good for sport and good for us as well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  