-- Indonesia Stocks Drop to Seven-Week Low as Oil Gain Fans Inflation Concern
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2012-02-24T09:25:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/indonesia-stocks-drop-most-in-3-months-as-oil-gain-fans-inflation-concerns.html
Indonesian stocks fell to the lowest
level in almost seven weeks on concern inflation will accelerate
as gains in crude oil added pressure on the government to raise
subsidized fuel prices.  The  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  dropped 1.6 percent to 3,894.56
at the close in Jakarta, the lowest level since Jan. 9. About
five stocks fell for each that rose.  PT Astra International (ASII) ,
Indonesia’s largest auto retailer, fell 3.7 percent, while  PT
Bank Mandiri (BMRI) , the biggest bank by assets, declined 3.2 percent.  Crude rose for a seventh day to the highest level in more
than nine months, boosting concerns inflation may accelerate
after President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono said Feb. 22 subsidized
fuel prices must be raised. Inflation this year may exceed the
central bank’s target of a maximum 5.5 percent if the government
increases the price by more than 1,000 rupiah (11 cents) a
liter, Bank Indonesia Governor Darmin Nasution said yesterday.  “It’s possible that the fuel-price increase will be above
expectations,” Akbar Syarief, who helps manage about $154
million in assets at PT MNC Asset Management in Jakarta, said
today. “Investors will have to rebalance portfolios, selling
stocks that are inflation- and  interest-rate  sensitive.”  Indonesia’s benchmark index has risen 1.9 percent this
year,  Asia ’s fourth-worst performer after Sri Lanka, Malaysia
and Mongolia. The gauge trades at 13.2 times estimated earnings,
the lowest relative to the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  since April
2010.  Fuel Imports  Southeast Asia’s biggest economy imports about 27 percent
of its domestic fuel demand, according to data from  PT
Pertamina (PERT) , Indonesia’s state oil company. Pertamina sells
subsidized low-octane gasoline for 4,500 rupiah a liter,
compared with 9,150 rupiah a liter for the price of its non-
subsidized high-octane fuel.  A decision on the fuel-price increase will depend on
parliamentary discussions on a revised 2012 state budget
scheduled to begin in March, Coordinating Minister for the
Economy Hatta Rajasa said yesterday.  Higher fuel costs may accelerate inflation after price
growth slowed for a fifth straight month in January. Bank
Indonesia cut its benchmark interest rate to a record low of
5.75 percent on Feb. 9 to boost economic growth as exports
slowed on weaker global demand.  Bank Indonesia  targets inflation
this year of 3.5 percent to 5.5 percent.  Crude oil rose as much as 0.8 percent to $108.70 a barrel
in electronic trading in  New York .  Price Increases  “Fuel-price hikes tend to hurt consumer sentiment and lead
to weaker GDP growth in the short term,” Kun Lung Wu, a
Singapore-based analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote in a
note yesterday. “Depending on the magnitude of any fuel-price
increase, Bank Indonesia might need to raise the policy rate
later this year,” Wu wrote.  Astra shares fell the most since Dec. 15 to 68,250 rupiah.
Mandiri declined to 6,100 rupiah, the lowest close since Oct. 7.  PT Unilever Indonesia (UNVR) , the nation’s biggest detergent
maker, fell 1.9 percent to 18,200 rupiah, while  PT Gudang Garam (GGRM) ,
a cigarette producer, retreated 3.2 percent to 51,950 rupiah,
the lowest close since Oct. 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  