-- Turkish Lira Biggest Emerging-Market Loser as Oil Price Climbs
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-02-24T15:54:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/lira-weakens-second-day-on-falling-interest-rates-rising-oil.html
The lira was the biggest-losing
emerging-market currency against the dollar and yields rose the
most in six weeks as rising  oil prices  revived concern on the
 current account deficit .  The Turkish currency declined 0.5 percent to 1.7677 per
dollar at 5:28 p.m. in Istanbul, the worst performance among
emerging-market currencies today.  Yields (BENCH)  on the two-year
benchmark bonds climbed 13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage
point, to 9.18 percent, rising the most since Jan. 10.  “Turkey’s local rates market has come under severe
pressure, simply because whenever oil prices become a major
market focus, you can be sure that lira assets are going to be
hammered,”  Benoit Anne , chief strategist at Societe Generale in
 London , said in e-mailed comments.  Oil climbed for a seventh day, the longest streak of
advances since January 2010, as escalating tension with  Iran 
threatens supplies and on signs of a global economic recovery.  “The main reason why the lira has decoupled appears that
rising oil prices reignited concern on the current account
deficit,” Tufan Comert, a strategist at Garanti Securities in
Istanbul, said in a note.  Turkey depends on imports for nearly all of its energy
requirements, paying $54 billion last year, 22 percent of its
total import bill, the State Statistics Institute  website  shows.  The country’s current account deficit narrowed in the last
two months of 2012 after a credit-fueled boom led to a surge in
imports that pushed the 12-month  trade gap  to a record $78.6
billion in October. The deficit is still about 10 percent of
gross domestic product.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  