-- Iran ‘Dismissed’ Weapons Concerns, Tripled Uranium Production, IAEA Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2012-02-24T20:37:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/iran-dismissed-weapons-concerns-tripled-uranium-production-iaea-says.html
Iran tripled its production of
enriched uranium and rejected the international concerns about
its possible pursuit of nuclear weapons that a team of United
Nations inspectors carried to Tehran this week.  Amid rising tensions about its nuclear research, Iran
“dismissed the agency’s concerns,” the  International Atomic
Energy Agency  said today in an 11-page restricted document
obtained by Bloomberg News. “Iran considered them to be based
on unfounded allegations,” according to the document.  The report, distributed to IAEA member states, was
published three days after inspectors’ talks with Iran broke
down. The inspectors said Iran has increased the number of
machines it’s using to enrich uranium at its Natanz complex by
14 percent and has begun enriching material at its underground
Fordo complex near the holy city of Qom.  Iran is now making almost 31 pounds (14 kilograms) of 20
percent-enriched uranium a month compared with almost nine
pounds (4 kilograms) in November, according to the report.  “Iran has continued to pursue its uranium enrichment
program in violation of multiple  United Nations  Security Council
resolutions without demonstrating any credible or legitimate
purpose for doing so,” Tommy Vietor, spokesman for the U.S.
National Security Council, said today in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Continued Stonewalling’  “Combined  with its continued stonewalling of
international inspectors, Iran’s actions demonstrate why Iran
has failed to convince the international community that its
nuclear program is peaceful,” he said.  Allegations about Iran’s possible military ambitions have
led to economic sanctions targeting Iran’s oil and banking
industries. The U.S. and  Israel  haven’t ruled out air strikes
against the country’s atomic facilities, escalating tensions in
a region that’s home to 54 percent of global oil reserves.  Oil climbed for a seventh day, the longest streak of
advances since January 2010, as conflict with Iran threatens
supplies and on signs of a global economic recovery.  Crude oil April delivery rose $1.94, or 1.8 percent, to
$109.77 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the
highest settlement since May 3. The front-month contract
increased 6.3 percent this week. Crude’s seven-day advance was
the longest since the period ended Jan. 6, 2010.  IAEA Questions  Iran may be able to stockpile as much as 638 pounds of 20
percent enriched uranium, said  Olli Heinonen , a senior fellow at
Harvard University’s Belfer Center for Science and International
Affairs, in a Feb. 15 telephone call.  That’s enough to make as many as two nuclear weapons if
Iran decided to continue enriching to weapons-grade, which is 90
percent, according to Heinonen, who as the IAEA’s chief
inspector visited Iranian facilities until 2010.  The IAEA, while verifying that  Iran  hasn’t diverted
declared uranium stocks, reiterated that the government in
Tehran still hasn’t proved that its nuclear program is intended
only for peaceful purposes. The U.S. and European allies accuse
Iran of seeking the ability to make nuclear weapons, while the
Persian Gulf nation’s leaders say they seek only energy and
industrial applications from nuclear technology.  No ‘Credible Assurances’  “The agency is unable to provide credible assurances about
the absence of undeclared nuclear material and activities in
Iran, and therefore to conclude that all material in Iran is in
peaceful activities,” the IAEA reported.  The IAEA also said its investigators found a discrepancy of
44 pounds of raw uranium metal at an Iranian laboratory.
Inspectors want Iranian officials to explain what happened to
the material, which may have been used for testing before 2002,
the senior officials said, adding that they were tipped off
about the location of the metal by one IAEA member state.  The IAEA team also asked twice to investigate Iran’s
Parchin military complex, where information received by the
agency points to high-explosive testing that could be used to
trigger a nuclear weapon. While Iran didn’t categorically reject
the IAEA’s request, inspectors were disappointed that the mid-
level officials they met with weren’t empowered to make a
decision, the officials said.  The U.S. is calling on Iran to “come into full compliance
with UN Security Council resolutions by suspending its
enrichment program and providing full and genuine transparency
to the IAEA,” said Vietor. “If it refuses to shift course, its
isolation from the international community will only continue to
grow.”  Bomb Timeline  U.S. intelligence officials fear that Iran may be
developing the different components of a nuclear weapon in
scattered facilities, including Parchin and other military bases
where it hasn’t permitted IAEA inspections, said a U.S. official
who spoke only on the basis of anonymity because intelligence
matters are classified.  U.S. intelligence analysts have concluded that Iran could
assemble a nuclear weapon in as little as two months if it
succeeded in making all the components, enough weapons-grade
uranium and a nuclear-capable missile or other delivery vehicle,
said the official, who participated in the analysis.  Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin today said Russia
opposes Iran developing a nuclear weapons capability because it
would endanger global stability.  “We don’t need to expand the nuclear club, and we’re
against this,” Putin said in the Russian city of Sarov. “It
would lead to greater risks to international stability.”  Iran’s Demands  The IAEA inspectors’ talks with Iranian officials broke
down after Iran insisted on imposing rules on the investigation,
said two international officials with knowledge of the IAEA’s
investigation. The officials weren’t allowed to be identified
because the information isn’t public.  Iran dismissed the agency’s concerns in a 15-page letter
rejecting a Nov. 8 IAEA report that outlined “credible”
information pointing to nuclear-weapons work.  Iran began enriching uranium with more than 300 new
centrifuges at Fordo, the underground site where the country is
shifting production of 20 percent-enriched uranium. The
centrifuges at Iran’s underground Natanz enrichment hall grew to
9,156 from 8,000 in November, according to the report.  Low-enriched uranium can be used to fuel nuclear  power
plants  and Iran has said the 20 percent enriched uranium is for
use in a reactor producing medical isotopes.  Uranium Stockpiles  Iran increased its supply of 20 percent-enriched uranium to
almost 240 pounds from just over 162 pounds reported in
November, the IAEA said. Iran has produced almost 12,000 pounds
of uranium enriched to less than 5 percent compared to slightly
more than 10,828 pounds in the last IAEA report.  About 1,386 pounds of low-enriched uranium, if further
purified, could yield the 33 pounds to 48 pounds of weapons-
grade uranium an expert bomb maker needs to make a weapon,
according to the London-based Verification Research, Training
and Information Center, a non-governmental observer to the IAEA
funded by European governments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  