-- Israeli Potheads, Naked Girls Star in Englander’s Tales: Review
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-02-25T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/israeli-potheads-nude-girls-fat-rabbis-star-in-englander-s-tales-review.html
The most amazing stories in “ What
We Talk About When We Talk About Anne Frank ” are about Israel
or Israelis, and what’s amazing about them, in part, is how they
avoid politics.  Except “avoid” is probably the wrong word, since it
suggests pussyfooting, and  Nathan Englander ’s style is more
along the lines of a left jab followed by a right hook. They
avoid politics in the sense that their appeal and their meaning
lie elsewhere.  Trumpets announced the arrival of Englander’s first
collection, “ For the Relief of Unbearable Urges ,” in 1999. Its
nine glistening stories were set mostly among the closed
community of ultra-Orthodox Jews in New York, which was where
the author came from himself.  His characters were people his readers might have found
alien and forbidding if they saw them on the street; they turned
out (big surprise) to be like everybody else, only funnier.  The new tales about Israelis again make the foreign
familiar. In the title story, a secular American couple plays
host to a Hasidic couple visiting from  Israel , the husband
sternly outfitted in “black suit, a beard resting on the middle
of his stomach,” the wife in “a bad dress and a giant blond
Marilyn Monroe wig.” (The two women are old school friends.)  Truth or Dare  After a long afternoon of alcohol and pot -- which, the
Hasids explain, is how they cope with having 10 daughters --
come the inebriated truth games. By the end, the story isn’t
about Orthodox versus secular; it’s about the cracks in a
marriage, and it closes with a sudden insight that arrives like
a punch.  The longest story, “Sister Hills,” covers four decades of
West Bank settlement, and of motherhood and loss and the
craziness of bitterness, in 40 pages.  The last one, “Free Fruit for Young Widows,” concerns
Holocaust survivors in  Jerusalem , specifically an old professor
who once shot four Egyptians in cold blood and beat the owner of
a fruit stand almost to death.  Its theme is the impossibility and, at the same time, the
necessity of making moral judgments from outside a situation.
This time the punch comes at the beginning, and you still feel
the ache when you reach the quiet close.  Yiddish Humor  The other five tales don’t reach the same level. The
absurdism that is a major current in Yiddish humor has a strong
but not always happy pull on Englander.  In “Peep Show,” a prosperous businessman sidles into a
triple-X establishment near  Port Authority , where he’s invited
to touch the naked girls. Then the girls are replaced by the
fat, hairy rabbis of his boyhood, and then the rabbis are
replaced by his mother. (“Do you need some tissue, Ari? Did you
remember to bring?”)  The comedy is heavy with meaning. It isn’t nearly as funny
(or as horrifying) as the giant apparition of the Jewish mother
who barks down at  Woody Allen  from the sky in the movie “ New
York  Stories.”  In “The Reader,” a once celebrated, now forgotten Jewish
novelist moans over the decline of bookstores and the audiences
who once lionized him there. It’s such a nakedly masochistic
self-projection that the mockery of the writer’s self-pity
doesn’t save it from self-pity.  These stories don’t miss badly or embarrassingly, and they
would probably come off much better if they weren’t in the
company of three stories that smack of genius. Englander is at
his best -- I don’t know why -- when he’s forced into acting as
a translator of cultures. He never writes less than gorgeously,
but when, from narrow confines, he puts his finger on the
universal, he’s  Shakespeare .  “What We Talk About When We Talk About Anne Frank” is
published by  Knopf (BTG)  (207 pages, $24.95). To buy this book in
 North America , click  here .  ( Craig Seligman  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 