-- Italy Bonds Yielding Five Times More Than Taiwan Lure Asia Funds to Europe
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-02-24T10:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/italy-bonds-yielding-five-times-more-than-taiwan-lure-asia-funds-to-europe.html
Taiwan’s biggest life insurer and
 South Korea ’s largest financial company will follow  Japan ’s No.
3 banking group in buying more euro-zone bonds, taking advantage
of Italian yields five times higher than those in Taipei.  Cathay Life Insurance Co. plans to invest in Italian and
Spanish sovereign debt as their coupons are “attractive” after
Greece won more bailout funds this week. Seoul-based Woori
Investment & Securities Co. is researching auctions, seeking to
profit from further gains in notes of the single-currency
region. Mizuho Asset Management Co. in  Tokyo  bought Italian and
Spanish notes last quarter.  Japanese buyers of overseas bonds are having the busiest
start to a year since 2005, South Korean foreign-debt holdings
rose to the highest in four years at the end of 2011 and  Taiwan 
Life Insurance Co. said last month it is looking abroad for
higher-yielding investments. Five-year notes yield 4.28 percent
in  Italy (GBTPGR5) , 3.73 percent in Spain, 3.57 percent in South Korea,
0.94 percent in  Taiwan (GVTWTO5)  and 3.16 percent in  China (CNTBI5) .  “We are considering allocating funds to sovereign debt in
countries like Italy and Spain,” said Allen Lee, the Taipei-
based deputy manager of high-grade sovereign debt at Cathay Life
that oversees about $95 billion. “Their yields are attractive,
especially if the contagion risks of Greek problems are
declining. The sell-offs in  Europe  give us opportunities to
buy.”  Euro-Zone Returns  Italian notes returned 17 percent in 2012, second only to
 Hungary  among 26 markets tracked by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  European finance ministers this week agreed to arrange 130
billion euros ($173 billion) in financial aid to Greece, Italy
passed 20 billion euros of budget reductions in December, while
Spain’s parliament approved a 15-billion euro package of
spending cuts and tax increases last month. The  European Central
Bank  has started an unprecedented emergency lending program.  Euro-area bonds have outperformed Asian notes this year.
Five-year Italian yields slumped 192 basis points, or 1.92
percentage points, 42 basis points in  Spain (GSPG5YR)  and five basis
points in Taiwan, data compiled by Bloomberg show. In South
Korea they  rose  11 and in  China  yields gained 13.  ‘Room’ for Gains  Woori Investment is monitoring bond auctions in  Germany ,
Spain,  Italy  and  France  and “may invest if prices match our
expectations,” according to Lee Jeong Bai, the Seoul-based team
head of fixed-income investment who oversees 1 trillion won
($888 million). “There is further room for European bond prices
to rise,” he said in an interview on Feb. 13.  Spain sold 4.07 billion euros of bonds in three- and seven-
year notes on Feb. 16 at yields ranging from 2.97 percent to
4.83 percent. Demand at the auction was more than twice the
amount sold, according to data from the nation’s Treasury.  Five-year Italian bonds yielded 341 basis points  more  than
German notes, having narrowed from 544 basis points at the end
of last year. The spread on  Spain ’s securities over German bunds
has shrunk to 286 basis points from 339 basis points, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Daewoo Securities Co., South Korea’s second-biggest
brokerage by market value, says euro-zone debt securities aren’t
as attractive anymore. Moody’s Investors Service cut the ratings
of six European nations including Italy, Spain,  Portugal  and
Slovakia this month, and Standard & Poor’s cut France’s AAA
rating by one level on Jan. 13.  Not as Attractive  “We invested in France, Italy and Spain sovereign bonds at
the end of last year and in January as prices were attractive
even after considering the risks,” Oh Jong Hyeon, the Seoul-
based head of fixed-income trading at Daewoo Securities that
oversees 12 trillion won, said in an interview yesterday. “The
region’s yields have fallen and now they are not as cheap as
they used to be, and we have a more neutral stance on European
bonds.”  Investor perceptions of euro-zone borrowers is improving.
The cost of insuring Italy’s sovereign debt against default for
five years using credit-default swaps has fallen 84 basis points
this year to 400 basis points yesterday, according to CMA, which
is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated market. Similar costs for Spain have
slid 115 basis from a record-high touched in November to 378
basis points. The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities should an issuer fail to adhere to
its debt agreements.  Consumer Confidence  Italian  consumer confidence  rose more than economists
forecast in February to 94.2 from a revised 91.8 in January, a
statistics office report showed yesterday. The Munich-based  Ifo (GRIFPBUS) 
institute said its German business climate index for February
rose to the highest since July. The euro area’s economic slump
eased in February as companies and consumers grew more
confident, the Eurocoin index showed.  Japanese investors bought 4 trillion yen ($50 billion) more
overseas bonds than they sold this year through Feb. 11,
compared with 1.7 trillion yen a year earlier, according to the
nation’s finance ministry.  ‘Right Direction’  “With support from the ECB, the chance of a  default risk 
spreading to Italy, Spain and Ireland from  Greece  has been
reduced,” Shinji Kunibe, the Tokyo-based chief portfolio
manager for fixed-income investments in Tokyo at Nissay Asset
Management Corp. that manages about $68 billion, said in an
interview on Feb. 16. “I would like to buy them again when
yields rebound as I took profits from the recent yield
declines.”  Ten of  Asia ’s 11 most-used currencies dropped versus the
euro in the past month, led by the yen’s 6.8 percent decline.
The won weakened 2.4 percent and China’s yuan dropped 2.7
percent.  The euro is poised to rally to the strongest level since
November, Lloyds Banking Group Plc said on Feb. 10. The currency
may rise to $1.36, Lloyds said, compared with $1.3388 today. The
euro will also receive a boost from the ECB’s second unlimited
three-year loan auction this month, Adrian Schmidt, a London-
based currency strategist at Lloyds, said the same day.  “Policy makers are moving in the right direction,” Akira
Takei, the Tokyo-based head of the international fixed-income
department at Mizuho Asset that oversees $41 billion, said in an
interview on Feb. 21. He said he holds more Italian and Spanish
debt than the benchmark his fund tracks because “their higher
yields make them a compelling investment destination.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  