-- J.C. Penney Reports Fourth-Quarter Loss Following Restructuring Costs
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-02-24T15:14:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/j-c-penney-posts-fourth-quarter-loss.html
J.C. Penney Co. (JCP) , the U.S.
department-store chain run by Apple Inc.’s former retail chief,
posted a fourth-quarter loss on charges to revamp the company.  The loss totaled $87 million, or 41 cents a share, compared
with net income of $271 million, or $1.13, a year earlier, the
Plano, Texas-based retailer said in a statement. Excluding
restructuring costs, profit was 74 cents a share. Analysts
projected 67 cents, the average of 12  estimates .  Chief Executive Officer  Ron Johnson , who took over in
November, is overhauling the retailer’s pricing and store design
to revive sales and lure shoppers from Macy’s Inc. and Target
Corp. Last month, J.C. Penney cut its forecast for the fourth
quarter, citing declining sales and deeper discounts than
anticipated during the  holiday shopping season .  J.C. Penney  fell  0.5 percent to $41.71 at 10:14 a.m. in  New
York . The shares gained 8.8 percent last year.  In January, Johnson announced a three-tier pricing system
and detailed plans to convert stores into a collection of
branded shops surrounding a central space for events and
services.  Fourth-quarter revenue fell 4.9 percent to $5.43 billion
after the company exited its catalog and outlet businesses.
Sales at stores open at least a year declined 1.8 percent.  Restructuring Costs  The company reiterated a forecast that it would earn at
least $2.16 a share excluding restructuring and pension costs
this year. Including those costs, J.C. Penney predicted profit
of $1.59 a share.  The year will include about $15 million of restructuring
charges and $197 million in non-cash pension plan expenses. J.C.
Penney said it also expects additional charges to revamp the
company and will detail them in a later earnings report.  Fitch Ratings  downgraded J.C. Penney’s issuer default
ratings on Feb. 21 to BB+, one step below investment grade, from
BBB- and cited “significant execution risk” from Johnson’s new
strategy in the next 12 to 18 months.  “The jury remains out on whether consumers will buy into
the new pricing structure and whether or not the company can
turn around faltering sales and sustainably improve the
profitability of its business,” wrote Monica Aggarwal, a Fitch
analyst in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  