-- Japan to Purchase Contracted Kazakh Uranium, Kazatomprom Says
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2012-02-24T09:52:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/japan-to-purchase-contracted-kazakh-uranium-kazatomprom-says.html
Kazatomprom (KZAP) , the state nuclear
company in the world’s biggest uranium-producing nation, said
its Japanese customers will take delivery of the fuel they
agreed to buy even as the country idles its atomic stations.  The supply contracts with  Japan  haven’t changed, Chief
Executive Officer Vladimir Shkolnik told reporters in Almaty,
 Kazakhstan , today without identifying the buyers.  Kazakhstan said in October it planned to start commercial
sales of uranium to Japan in 2012, a year after a record
earthquake and tsunami caused a meltdown at  Tokyo Electric Power
Co. (9501) ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant. All but two of Japan’s 54
nuclear reactors are idled either for scheduled maintenance or
because of damage from the March 11 disasters, with the
government yet to win public support for their restart.  By this summer, Japan plans to draw up a new  energy policy 
that may call for a shift to fuel alternatives. Future
cooperation with Japan will depend on the decisions made by its
government, Shkolnik said, without elaborating.  The cost of operations for Japanese utilities has soared
since the Fukushima disaster as more gas- and coal-fired power
capacity is brought online to fill the gap left by nuclear
plants, which supplied a third of the country’s electricity
before the accident.  Kazatomprom has a $200 million venture with Japan’s third-
largest trading house  Sumitomo Corp. (8053)  that was set up in 2010 to
extract metals such as molybdenum and rhenium from uranium ore.
 Toshiba Corp. (6502) , which together with Kazatomprom owns nuclear
plant builder Westinghouse Electric Corp., has another venture
with the Kazakh company to produce metals including berrylium,
used in aerospace equipment, Shkolnik said in April last year.  Kazatomprom, mining in a nation endowed with the world’s
largest uranium reserves after  Australia , plans to more than
double capital expenditure to 80 billion tenge ($542 million)
this year from 30 billion tenge in 2011, Shkolnik said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net . 