-- Japan Shuts AIJ Investment to Protect Clients
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2012-02-24T02:52:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/japan-shuts-aij-investment-to-protect-clients-probes-263-asset-managers.html
Japan ’s financial regulator ordered
 AIJ Investment Advisors Co.  to halt its business after finding
the asset manager’s clients funds of about 183.2 billion yen 
($2.3 billion) may be “adversely affected” and started a probe 
into the 263 asset managers operating in the nation.  “We’ve ordered AIJ to halt business for a month in order
to safeguard investors, as it appears client assets have been
adversely affected,” Financial Services Minister  Shozaburo Jimi 
told reporters at a briefing in Tokyo. The regulator is still
investigating the firm and can’t comment on losses. The
suspension lasts from today until March 23, the regulator said.  AIJ, a Tokyo-based asset-management firm, may have lost
most of the 200 billion yen ($2.5 billion) it manages for
companies’ pension plans, the Nikkei newspaper said today,
citing unidentified securities investigators. Regulators have
been investigating AIJ since the end of January and are unable
to explain where some money went, the Nikkei reported.  Japanese pension plans have been suffering from two decades
of slumping markets and an aging population.  Alternative
investments  were becoming one of the options for the retirement
funds, which have traditionally invested mainly in bonds, as
ways to maintain steady returns and fund retiree benefits in a
country where more than one in five people are  over 65 .  AIJ, led by Kazuhiko Asakawa, was established in April 1989,
and had 120 clients including pension plans with 183.2 billion
yen in assets as of the end of 2010, according to a statement
from the Financial Services Agency, adding it has 12 employees.  A phone call to AIJ’s main office was answered by an
automatic recording which didn’t allow messages to be kept.  Advantest, Yaskawa Electric  Retirement funds of companies including  Advantest Corp. (6857)  and
 Yaskawa Electric Corp. (6506)  are among those that invested in AIJ’s
fund, the Nikkei said. Advantest fell 1.5 percent to 1,092 yen
at the 11:30 a.m. break on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, compared
with a less than 0.1 percent gain in the Nikkei 225 Stock
Average. Yaskawa Electric declined 1.5 percent to 784 yen.  Advantest, a maker of memory-chip testers, said it’s a
customer of AIJ, adding that it is not fully aware of details of
the Nikkei report, according to its statement through the stock
exchange. Yaskawa Electric has about 2 percent of its pension
money managed by AIJ and the impact will be limited, said Ayumi
Hayashida, a spokesman at the company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in  Tokyo  at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  