-- Kenneth Cole to Take Company Private
-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 2012-02-24T21:18:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/kenneth-cole-will-take-namesake-fashion-brand-private-in-280-million-deal.html
Kenneth Cole Productions Inc. (KCP)  shares
topped the $15 price the company’s founder offered to take the
shoe and clothing maker private, signaling investors may be
anticipating other bids.  The shares  advanced  19 percent to $15.49 at the close in
New York, for the highest closing price since October 2010. The
stock has increased 46 percent this year.  Kenneth Cole, who holds 47 percent of Kenneth Cole
Productions shares outstanding, offered to buy the remaining
stake today in a deal that valued the business at $280 million.
That’s 15 percent more that yesterday’s closing price.  “Kenneth has made it clear that he doesn’t want to work
for anybody -- he’s a trailblazer, which is going to scare off
potential bidders,” Steven Marotta, an analyst at CL King &
Associates in  Albany ,  New York , said today in a telephone
interview. “He is essentially bidding against himself but the
deal is probably going to get done at a higher level.”  Cole, who is chairman and chief creative officer, started
the company in New York in 1982 with a focus on shoes. The
clothing and accessory line is now carried in U.S. department
store chains. He currently holds 89 percent voting power.  “The other question is whether the shareholders will take
it, and I’m guessing they will, just at a higher price,”
Marotta said.  Cole said in a statement today that he intends to keep
current management in place. He appointed legal adviser Willkie
Farr & Gallagher LLP.  “Recent market challenges have created a sharply
competitive landscape, and I believe it is now more important
than ever to embrace a more entrepreneurial perspective where we
are all incentivized to grow and develop our company’s products,
brand and business with a longer term perspective,” Cole said
in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ashley Lutz in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  