-- Kenya Shilling Slips From 1-Year High as Businesses Buy Dollars
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2012-02-24T14:41:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/kenya-shilling-slips-from-1-year-high-as-businesses-buy-dollars.html
The shilling weakened, snapping a
two-day gain, as businesses bought dollars after they fell to
the cheapest level in a year versus  Kenya ’s currency.  The currency of  East Africa ’s biggest economy weakened as
much as 0.5 percent and was trading 0.2 percent lower at 82.60
as of 5:25 p.m. in Nairobi, the capital. The shilling closed at
82.45 yesterday, the highest since Feb. 25, 2011.  “The shilling has weakened on account of growing demand
for dollars by businesses which are accumulating the currency
following the recent gains,” Duncan Kinuthia, a dealer at
Nairobi-based Commercial Bank of Africa Ltd., said in a phone
interview today.  Tanzania’s shilling appreciated against the dollar as local
businesses sold dollars to meet month-end obligations. The
currency of the second-biggest economy in East Africa traded 0.7
percent higher at 1,589 per dollar at 4:38 p.m.  “The shilling has gained due to customers selling dollars
to get the local currency to meet end-of month payment
obligations like salaries and taxes,” Hakim Sheik, a dealer
with Commercial Bank of Africa Tanzania Ltd., said by phone from
the commercial capital,  Dar es Salaam .  The Ugandan shilling weakened on increased dollar demand by
manufacturers.  The currency of the third-biggest economy in
East Africa depreciated as much as 0.7 percent and traded 0.1
percent weaker at 2,337 per dollar at 4:43 p.m.  “The shilling has weakened on account of demand for the
dollar by the manufacturers as they place their end month
orders,” Dickson Musoni, the head of  currency trading  at Kenya
Commercial Bank Uganda Ltd., said by phone from Kampala.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  