-- Knicks Capitalize on Lin’s Global Success With Taiwanese Tiremaker Ad Deal
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-02-24T17:55:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/knicks-capitalize-on-lin-s-global-success-with-taiwanese-tiremaker-ad-deal.html
The  New York Knicks  and Taiwan-based
tire company  Maxxis International  agreed on a marketing
sponsorship, the team’s first to capture the global success of
point-guard Jeremy Lin.  The partnership, which will run through the rest of this
National Basketball Association season, allows Maxxis to
advertise through courtside signs and advertisements on the
scoreboard, the team said today in an e-mailed statement.  Financial terms of the agreement weren’t disclosed. It is
the first new sponsorship contract signed by the Knicks since
Lin became a starter and the team’s only current deal with a
Taiwanese company, according to Stacey Escudero, a spokeswoman
for Madison Square Garden Co.  Lin, a  Harvard University  economics graduate, has led the
team to an 8-3 record since becoming a starter on Feb. 6. The
first Chinese- or Taiwanese-American to play in the NBA, he is
averaging 22.4 points and 8.8 assists per game in that stretch,
fueling the so-called Linsanity label that the Knicks and news
media have used to describe the player’s sudden success.  “We are excited to add Maxxis to our family of marketing
partners for the Knicks,” Scott O’Neil, president of MSG
Sports, part of the company that owns the Knicks and hockey’s
 New York Rangers , said in the statement. “This new marketing
partnership shows the power of ‘Linsanity’ and how the Knicks’
brand can help drive real results for companies from around the
world.”  Maxxis, which distributes products in about 170 countries,
sells tires for automotive, motorcycle, bicycle, lawn and
garden, and industrial use, according its website. Founded in
 Taiwan  in 1967, the company employs more than 22,000 people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  