-- Natural Gas Puts Most Expensive Since 2009 Amid Glut
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i ,   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   N a u r e e n   M a l i k
-- 2012-02-24T19:13:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/natural-gas-puts-rise-to-most-expensive-level-since-09-amid-glut-options.html
Natural gas’s 46 percent drop since
June has done nothing to awaken bulls in the options market,
with puts on a fund tracking the commodity reaching the highest
price in more than two years.  Implied volatility for 30-day options to sell the U.S.
Natural Gas Fund LP was 4.14 points higher than calls to buy on
Feb. 21, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
relationship known as skew reached 5.41 on Feb. 15, the biggest
gap since October 2009.  Traders are betting the natural gas ETF may keep falling
following forecasts for higher-than-usual U.S. temperatures that
reduce demand. A  glut  spurred by the  fourth-warmest  winter on
record and increased supply from hydraulic fracturing, a process
of extracting fuel from shale rock, helped drive natural-gas
futures to a 10-year low in January.  “The short-term story on natural gas is bearish,” Joanne Angela Hruska, a Calgary-based portfolio manager at Aston Hill
Financial Inc., said in a phone interview yesterday. Her firm
manages C$5 billion ($5 billion). “People are worried that we
could get a lot more full on storage, which could make the short
term very scary for prices,” she said. “The investors who are
making bearish bets on the ETF could be right.”  Natural-gas futures dropped 0.8 percent to $2.621 per
million British thermal units on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange yesterday after a report showed U.S. stockpiles dropped
than than estimated last week. The price fell as low as $2.231
on Jan. 23, the lowest since February 2002.  Supply Report  The Energy Department said yesterday that supplies declined
166 billion cubic feet in the week ended Feb. 17 to 2.595
trillion cubic feet. Analysts projected a withdrawal of 170
billion, according to the average estimate. Supplies were 41
percent above year-earlier levels.  U.S. heating demand will be 6 percent below normal from
Feb. 29 through March 4, according to data compiled by Belton,
Missouri-based Weather Derivatives. Temperatures may be normal
or warmer-than-average in the eastern and central regions of the
country through March 8, according to WSI Corp. in Andover,
 Massachusetts .  The $952.1 million ETF, the largest linked to natural gas,
aims to track the front-month futures price by buying the
contract closest to delivery each month, then selling it and
buying the following month. For most of the last five years, the
second-month contract has been more expensive, a price structure
known as contango.  Tracking Futures  “UNG is designed to follow the return of the futures,”
 John Hyland , chief investment officer of U.S. Commodity Funds
LLC, which manages the security, said in a telephone interview
today. “The objective of the fund is to not to track the change
in the spot price. The investment objective is to match
everyday’s change of the futures contract.”  Contango causes the security to perform worse than natural
gas, because it forces the fund to sell low and buy high each
month. The ETF has fallen 95 percent since it was introduced in
April 2007, while natural gas futures declined 65 percent. The
ETF did a one-for-four stock split after the market closed on
Feb. 21 to bring the unit price up from near record lows.  “Because of the contango effect, unless natural gas itself
keeps moving steadily to the upside, this thing is destined to
lose,”  Donald Selkin , the New York-based chief market
strategist at National Securities Corp., which manages about $3
billion, said yesterday in a phone interview. He owns the
natural gas ETF and recommends owners sell calls on the security
to offset losses. “People would be better off having bought the
natural-gas futures.”  Chesapeake Energy  Chesapeake Energy Corp., the second-largest U.S. gas
producer, said this week that it cut output by 1 billion cubic
feet a day, and Chief Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon  said
the reduction will last through October. The number of gas
drilling rigs fell to 716 in the week ended Feb. 17, the lowest
level since Oct. 2, 2009, Baker Hughes Inc. data show.  “That’s going to continue to be bullish for natural gas,
if we continue to see large corporations do that,” Anil
Tahiliani, a  money manager  at McLean & Partners in Calgary, said
in a telephone interview Feb. 21. The firm oversees about C$1
billion.  Four more U.S. natural gas producers would need to reduce
supply by 500 million cubic feet a day each for the rest of the
year for prices to average $4 per million British thermal units
in 2012, Shiyang Wang, an analyst for Barclays Plc in New York,
said in a note to clients on Feb. 21.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, known
as the  VIX (VIX) , rose 0.1 percent to 16.81 at 2:12 p.m. New York time
today. It dropped 65 percent from its more than two-year high on
Aug. 8 through yesterday.  The impact on gas supply from fewer rigs and lower
production won’t be felt for months, according to Rick Grafton,
who oversees C$100 million as chief executive officer of Grafton
Asset Management in Calgary.  “None of these supply declines will kick in until after
September,” Grafton said in a telephone interview on Feb. 21.
“Storage is full, they’re bringing on the new gas,” he said.
“The summer market could be the ugliest we’ve ever seen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  