-- Netflix Said Near Accord With Univision for U.S. Rights
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-02-24T22:07:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/netflix-said-near-accord-with-univision-for-u-s-rights-to-spanish-shows.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  is nearing an accord to
provide U.S. online customers with Spanish-language programming
from  Univision Communications Inc. (UVN) , said two people with
knowledge of the situation.  The deal, when concluded, is expected to include programs
from Mexico City-based  Grupo Televisa SAB (TV) , the world’s largest
Spanish language broadcaster, said one of the people, who wasn’t
authorized to talk publicly.  Netflix is adding shows from the most-watched U.S. Spanish-
language network to reach an audience of 50 million U.S.
Hispanics. Hulu.com added Univision in October. The accord
represents an expanded relationship for Univision, which already
provides shows to Netflix in Latin America.  “Our content is in great demand, and we are in
negotiations with several distributors,” Monica Talan, a
spokeswoman for New York-based Univision, said in an e-mail. She
declined to comment further.  Netflix, based in  Los Gatos , California, fell 1.2 percent
to $111.67 at the close in New York. The stock has climbed 61
percent this year. Closely held Univision is owned by Saban
Capital Group Inc., Madison Dearborn Partners LLC, Providence
Equity Partners Inc., TPG Capital and Thomas H. Lee Partners LP.  Univision reported today that revenue rose 6.9 percent in
the fourth quarter, according to a conference call transcript.
Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
increased 6.3 percent.  The company had about $9.2 billion of debt at the end of
the year, according to the transcript.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  