-- New Citigroup Looks Too Much Like the Old One: Jonathan Weil
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2012-02-24T00:40:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/new-citigroup-looks-too-much-like-the-old-one-commentary-by-jonathan-weil.html
Two years ago,  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
embarked on one of those feel-good corporate-image  campaigns ,
aimed at showing a skeptical public that it could be trusted
again. Citigroup was a “fundamentally different” company from
what it had been during the financial crisis, it promised, a
mantra its executives have repeated ever since.  “The new Citi has a clear strategy,” Chief Executive
Officer  Vikram Pandit  said in a February 2010  video  on the
company’s website. “We’re going to stand for the financial-
services company that practices responsible finance. Making sure
we’re transparent. Making sure we’re honest.”  Oh, well. Last week, Citigroup agreed to pay $158.3 million
to  settle  a civil complaint by the U.S. Attorney’s Office in
 Manhattan , accusing the company and its CitiMortgage home-loan
unit of defrauding the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development. By itself, that wouldn’t be big news. The payment
is small for a company with $1.9 trillion of assets. And the
government has accused Citigroup of fraud many times before.  What makes this case different -- and so galling -- is that
some of the alleged misconduct was ongoing as recently as last
year, well after the company’s 2008 taxpayer bailouts. All this
might have stayed under wraps, too, were it not for a
CitiMortgage employee, Sherry Hunt, who filed a federal whistle-
blower complaint against the company last year. Hunt was awarded
$31.7 million, or 20 percent of the settlement proceeds agreed
to last week, after the government intervened in her lawsuit and
resolved the case.  Ripping Off  The government accused Citigroup of ripping off the U.S.
Federal Housing Administration, a division of HUD that insures
lenders against losses on certain types of home loans. FHA loans
are backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government.
The purpose of FHA insurance is to reduce the mortgage costs for
creditworthy borrowers who nonetheless might not meet
conventional underwriting requirements.  Since 2004, Citigroup approved for FHA insurance almost
30,000 loans, totaling more than $4.8 billion. More than 30
percent defaulted, and the default rate among loans originated
in 2006 and 2007 was 47 percent, according to the government’s
complaint.  The default rates were so high partly because Citigroup
routinely certified that loans qualified for FHA insurance when
they didn’t. Citigroup’s quality-control program was
“systematically defective,” the government said. HUD has paid
about $200 million in insurance claims on loans that Citigroup
originated or underwrote since 2004. More claims are expected.  As part of the  settlement , CitiMortgage admitted that it
failed to review certain loans it approved for FHA insurance. It
also admitted certifying certain loans as FHA-eligible when they
weren’t, and failing to comply with other HUD requirements. The
company didn’t admit to fraud, however.  Acknowledgements aside, the settlement reeks of
unaccountability. The government will continue to let the
company make FHA loans. No individuals were named as defendants
in the case, as if all those false certifications were signed
without any human involvement. And the head of CitiMortgage,
Sanjiv Das, still has his job. (Das was hired by Pandit, a
fellow Morgan Stanley alumnus, in July 2008.)  HUD had warned Citigroup after a 2008  audit  to bring its
quality-control program into compliance. Instead, Citigroup
responded “by undermining the independence of its quality
control department and manipulating the results of its quality
control reviews,” the government said in its complaint.  Fraudulent Loans  By the end of 2009, Citigroup had accumulated almost 1,000
internal reports of fraudulent loans that it had never
investigated. Unable to process the backlog, it erased them
instead, according to the government, which alleged that the
policy continued into 2011. In January 2011, the company even
held a “Star Players Award” ceremony, where a team of
employees was honored for its efforts to “drive variance rates
down by challenging quality control to remove or reduce
variances.”  One example cited in last week’s complaint involved an FHA
loan of $114,000, originated in 2010, on which the borrower
missed the first payment. Citigroup’s fraud unit “confirmed
fabricated bank statements in the loan file and the existence of
a straw buyer” -- a buyer who purchases a home but does not
occupy it. “Nevertheless, Citi failed to report the loan to
HUD.”  In fact, from 2005 through mid-2011, Citigroup didn’t
notify HUD about a single fraudulent loan it had originated or
underwritten. It wasn’t until after the company received a
subpoena from the  U.S. Attorney’s Office  in July 2011 that it
began self-reporting any such loans, the government said.  So how does Citigroup square its statements about honesty,
responsible finance and being “fundamentally different” with
the allegations in last week’s complaint? Here’s what a
Citigroup spokeswoman,  Shannon Bell , said: “Focusing on one set
of unproven allegations and ignoring the substantial progress
Citi has made since the crisis is a gross distortion of the
record.”  “It is hard to dispute that we are a fundamentally
different company than when the crisis began in 2007,” she
said. “Specifically, we have divested over half a trillion
dollars of businesses and assets which are not core to our
strategy, overhauled risk management while investing in
compliance and control functions, and continued to change the
culture of a large organization by going back to the basics of
banking.”  Now back to the real story here: Responsible lenders don’t
do what Citigroup did. And for the record, it’s more than a 
stretch for the company to call the government’s allegations
“unproven.” Citigroup admitted some of them were true.  Looks like Citigroup still has a lot of work to do.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from Bloomberg  View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net  