-- Defunct News of the World Regularly Paid $1,580 for Scoops, Ex-Editor Says
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-02-24T11:53:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/news-of-the-world-paid-up-to-1-580-for-scoops-ex-editor-matt-nixson-says.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s News of the World
tabloid, shut after reporters were caught hacking into voice
mails, also regularly authorized reporters to pay public
officials for stories, a former editor said in a court filing.  The Sunday newspaper would usually pay 750 pounds ($1,184)
for a “page lead” scoop, and offered 1,000 pounds for
particularly compelling tips, according to documents filed by
Matt Nixson, a former features editor who is suing the defunct
tabloid’s parent company for wrongful termination.  Nixson, who is accused of approving a payment to a prison
official for information about a murderer, didn’t realize he was
doing anything wrong because only payments to criminals or
witnesses in criminal trials were prohibited by the company’s
code of conduct, the filing said.  “The practice of paying persons for information that could
form the basis of an article was well-established, widespread
and openly sanctioned,” according to the filing. The News of
the World “frequently sanctioned payments to civil servants,
members of the armed forces and prison officers.”  Bribery accusations have spread to another of News Corp.’s
U.K. tabloids, with 10 journalists at the Sun being arrested as
part of a police investigation into improper payments to public
officials. The bribery probe, Operation Elveden, is running in
parallel with the Metropolitan Police’s phone and computer
hacking investigations.  Daisy Dunlop , a spokeswoman for News Corp.’s News
International unit, didn’t immediately respond to a message
seeking comment.  ‘Gross Misconduct’  Nixson “was guilty of gross misconduct, or at any rate,
conduct justifying dismissal without notice or pay,” members of
News Corp.’s Management and Standards Committee, which is
running the company’s internal investigation into hacking and
bribery, said in a previous filing justifying Nixson’s
termination. The New York-based company has announced it will
publish a Sunday version of the Sun to replace the News of the
World this weekend.  Nixson sued the committee for recommending in July that the
company fire him from the Sun, where he’d worked since 2010. He
is seeking his 105,000-pound annual salary plus damages,
claiming he will have difficulty finding work after being
tainted by the News of the World’s phone-hacking scandal.  Nixson, who was a features editor at the News of the World
for five years, was dismissed from his most recent position at
the Sun after paying for information on convicted child murderer
Ian Huntley and the treatment he was getting in prison. The
tabloid’s managing editor or the deputy would have signed off on
payments made by members of Nixson’s team, Nixson said in his
court filing.  Inappropriate Payments  The News of the World was shut in July after its reporters
were found to have accessed murdered school girl Milly Dowler’s
phone and News Corp. has settled dozens of lawsuits over its
reporters illegally accessing voice mails.  Charges that reporters had hacked phones of their subjects
had been made since at least 2006. That was the year that  Glenn Mulcaire , the private investigator who worked for the paper,
admitted five counts of phone hacking relating to soccer
executive  Gordon Taylor , soccer agent Sky Andrew, publicist  Max Clifford , model  Elle Macpherson , soccer player  Sol Campbell  and
lawmaker  Simon Hughes .  IPCC Probe  Separately, the Independent Police Complaints Commission is
investigating an allegation that a police officer leaked
information during the original investigation into phone hacking
in 2006.  While the referral was made as part of the Elveden bribery
probe, there is no evidence the officer was paid for
information, London’s  Metropolitan Police Service  said in a
statement today. The officer won’t be suspended and the
investigation is ongoing.  Beginning in 2009, News of the World put a policy in place
to delete e-mails that could be damaging in court cases, erasing
hundreds of thousands on nine separate occasions, according to
court documents released to the Telegraph newspaper.  The process may have been contrary to the paper’s legal
obligation to preserve relevant evidence of phone hacking, which
was in force from 2008, the newspaper said today.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  The improper termination case is: Nixson v. News Group
Newspapers,  High Court  of Justice Queen’s  Bench Division , Case
No. HQ11X03843  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in  London  at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Browning  in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  