-- News Corp. Hacker Said to Have U.S. Phone Numbers in His Notes
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-02-25T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/news-corp-hacker-mulcaire-said-to-have-u-s-phone-numbers-among-his-notes.html
The former News Corp. private
detective who hacked phones for the News of the World had U.S.
telephone numbers among the details of British hacking victims
in his notes, a person familiar with the matter said.  Glenn Mulcaire , jailed in 2007 for illegally accessing
mobile-phone messages of people in the U.K., had the numbers of
singer Charlotte Church’s Los Angeles agent and  New York 
publicist among thousands of pages of notes seized by police,
said the person, who declined to be identified because they
aren’t authorized to speak publicly.  The evidence, held by the police in  London , may be of
interest to U.S. prosecutors. New York-based News Corp. has been
the subject of a probe into whether News of the World sought to
hack phones of victims of the 9-11 terrorist attacks. A separate
U.S. inquiry was begun into whether bribes of U.K. police
officers violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA,
which bars overseas corruption by U.S. companies.  The presence of the U.S. phone numbers in Mulcaire’s notes
also may complicate the company’s effort there to contain
lawsuits.  News Corp. (NWS)  has said it’s cooperating with three U.K.
police probes into phone hacking, computer hacking and bribery
of public officials by two of its tabloids.  “I’m going to work with the authorities to the fullest
extent I can, and if there’s anything I can do to help the case,
I will,” said Church’s publicist, Kevin Chiaramonte of  Paul
Freundlich Associates  in New York, in a phone interview
yesterday. The discovery, he said, was a “bit of a shock.” The
publicist said he expects to be contacted by Scotland Yard,
which declined to comment on the U.S. phone numbers. The notes
didn’t indicate if the phones had been hacked, the person said.  Personal Phones Hacked  Church, 26, whose personal phones and those of her parents
were hacked by Mulcaire for at least four years, settled a
lawsuit against News Corp.’s U.K. unit Feb. 23.  Calls to News Corp. U.K. unit’s press office in London and
News Corp. spokesman  Jack Horner  in New York weren’t immediately 
returned.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S. Attorney
 Preet Bharara , declined to comment.  Church’s Los Angeles-based agent works for the Hollywood
talent-management company William Morris Endeavor LLC, or WME,
the person said, declining to identify them. A message left at
the company’s office wasn’t returned.  Two numbers of London employees at Irving Azoff’s  Live
Nation Entertainment Inc. (LYV) , who worked with Church, were also
among Mulcaire’s notes. A call to Live Nation wasn’t immediately
returned.  Wedding Singer  Church sang at News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch ’s wedding
in 1999 when she was 13-year-old and was later targeted by his
newspapers while she grew up.  Church, whose 2005 song “Crazy Chick” reached No. 2 on
the U.K. pop charts, told a judge-led inquiry into press ethics
in November that Mulcaire’s evidence includes “many pages of
names, numbers, notes, addresses, pin numbers and the fact that
my mother and I were each a ‘project.”’  News International, which shuttered News of the World in
July in an attempt to contain public anger, still faces possible
claims by more than 800 “likely” victims identified by police
as they sift through 11,000 pages of Mulcaire’s notes.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  The case is Church v. News Group Newspapers,  High Court  of
Justice Chancery Division, No. HC11C03393.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  