-- North Korea Talks Deal With Uranium, Humanitarian Issues, U.S. Envoy Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-24T08:44:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/north-korea-talks-deal-with-uranium-humanitarian-issues-u-s-envoy-says.html
The U.S. and  North Korea  made “a
little bit” of progress in their first round of talks since the
death of Kim Jong Il, though there were no breakthroughs, U.S.
special representative Glyn Davies said today.  Davies, who heads to  South Korea  tomorrow, told reporters
that the two sides talked about denuclearization,  uranium
enrichment , humanitarian issues and improving ties on the Korean
peninsula. He said the U.S. needs to “look at what the North
Koreans had to say to us” and evaluate the results of the two
days of talks.  The U.S. is looking for signals about North Korea’s
direction since Kim Jong Un took over after his father’s death
on Dec. 17. The meetings are the third since the U.S. resumed
direct talks with North Korea in efforts to bring the country
back to six-party negotiations aimed at persuading it to abandon
its nuclear weapons program.  Davies told reporters that the word “breakthrough” was
too strong to describe the talks and there had been no dramatic
change in how the North Koreans presented their views. His
counterpart in the talks was First Vice Minister of Foreign
Affairs Kim Kye Gwan.  The North backed out of the six-party talks over its
nuclear program in April 2009 and has shown no sign since Kim
Jong Un took over that it’s willing to resume them. The
participants in the talks are Russia, China, the U.S., Japan and
the two Koreas,  Last October,  Kim Jong Il  said North Korea was ready to
restart the talks as long as they occur without preconditions.
The U.S. State Department said in August that North Korea must
refrain from nuclear testing and missile launches and meet other
conditions before the talks can resume. The North revealed a
secret uranium-enrichment program in 2010.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Yidi Zhao in Beijing at 
 yzhao7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  