-- Obama Web Privacy Framework Boosts Chances for Rules
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-02-24T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/obama-web-privacy-framework-boosts-chances-for-rules-with-teeth.html
An Obama administration Internet
privacy initiative marks the best chance for setting U.S.
standards to shield personal information in the absence of
Congressional legislation, consumer groups and lawyers said.  The White House called on companies such as  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  yesterday to work with privacy advocates to craft
voluntary codes of conduct for handling consumer data based on a
bill of rights for Web users, an effort that may bring the U.S.
closer to European data-protection norms.  By enlisting industry in setting privacy guidelines, the
administration is taking a flexible approach that would still
create rules with teeth, Chris Wolf, a lawyer with Hogan Lovells
LLP in Washington, said in an interview.  “It’s a huge step forward for both consumers and
business,” Wolf said. “Consumers are expecting companies to do
better, and companies are seeing some competitive advantage in
distinguishing themselves as privacy champions.”  Businesses should adhere to principles for the handling of
personal information, according to a White House report released
yesterday. Those include providing understandable privacy
policies; giving consumers control over the data collected on
them; and handling that information securely.  “Consumers can’t wait any longer for clear rules of the
road that ensure their personal information is safe online,”
President  Barack Obama  said in a statement announcing the
report. “As the Internet evolves, consumer trust is essential
for the continued growth of the digital economy.”  ‘Challenge Ahead’  The Commerce Department will meet with companies and
consumer groups to develop voluntary standards for businesses
based on those principles. The Federal Trade Commission, which
has the authority to act when companies engage in unfair and
deceptive trade practices, would enforce the standards,
according to the report.  Marc Rotenberg , executive director of the Electronic
Privacy Information Center, also known as EPIC, whose complaints
about privacy breaches by Facebook and Google became the basis
for 20-year settlement agreements with the FTC last year, said
Obama’s initiative is positive for consumers.  “The President’s statement is perhaps the best
articulation of the right to privacy of any president in U.S.
history,” Rotenberg said in an e-mail. “The challenge ahead is
implementation and enforcement.”  Revelations about privacy breaches during the past year
have spurred calls from regulators and lawmakers in  Washington 
for stronger protections of personal data online and on
Internet-connected mobile devices.  Online Tracking  Google, owner of the world’s most popular search engine,
and Facebook, the world’s largest social network, are among Web
companies facing scrutiny over their handling of consumer data
used to power an online ad market projected by eMarketer Inc., a
New York-based research firm, to reach $39.5 billion in the U.S.
this year.  Privacy advocates have expressed concern that Internet
companies are tracking consumers without permission to send
targeted advertising based on their Web-browsing habits.  The administration announced an initiative by online
advertisers to give people a uniform way to limit the data
collected on them through settings in their Web browsers. The
effort is led by the Digital Advertising Alliance, an
association of online ad groups.  Google,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , Yahoo! Inc. and  AOL Inc. (AOL)  are among
companies that have agreed to comply when consumers choose to
control online tracking, according to a White House statement
accompanying the privacy report.  ‘Cost Burden’  “This is an example of voluntary industry action to
increase the trust of the Internet that is essential for the
development of our economy going forward and lightens the burden
of legislation,”  Gene Sperling , director of the National
Economic Council, said at a White House briefing yesterday.  The administration proposal creates a framework for a
uniform, national approach to privacy while its use of vague
language, such as “appropriate,” may be subject to
interpretation, said  Bob Blakley , a  Round Rock , Texas-based
analyst for technology research firm Gartner Inc.  “Unless some understanding is reached regarding what the
standard of ‘appropriate’ is, there is the possibility that
people will game the system,” Blakley said in an interview.
“Companies will attempt to reduce the cost burden of complying
with whatever guidelines emerge from this.”  Senator  John Kerry , a Massachusetts Democrat who introduced
a privacy-protection bill last year with Republican Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona , welcomed the White House report and called on
his colleagues to pass legislation.  EU Policies  “Since the 1990s, Congress has been talking about this
issue and complaining about abuses but doing little to stop
them,” Kerry said in an e-mailed statement. “Instead of
continuing the now monthly exercise of publicly scolding
companies, we need to make Congress establish common sense rules
of the road that protect consumers.”  The framework outlined by the administration may help the
U.S. more closely align its privacy policies with European
regulations, Jim Halpert, a privacy lawyer with DLA Piper LLP in
Washington, said in an interview.  “This is going to change the way companies think about
consumer privacy and is a promising way to bridge some of the
differences between the U.S. and  Europe ,” Halpert said. “There
is a meaningful incentive to come up with international
processes that develop codes of conduct that also pass muster
under European data protection rules.”  The European Union announced an overhaul last month of the
region’s 17-year-old privacy rules that would give data
protection agencies in the EU’s 27 countries authority to
sanction companies that violate proposed requirements for
handling personal information.  Google Settings  The Obama administration report coincides with criticism of
Google over the company’s plan to unify privacy settings for
some 60 different services, including YouTube videos and mobile
devices running on its Android software. The move takes effect
March 1.  The National Association of  Attorneys General  criticized
the company’s decision, saying the new policy doesn’t give
consumers choices about pooling their data, according to a
letter sent Feb. 22 to Google Chief Executive Officer  Larry Page 
signed by 36 state attorneys general.  EPIC filed a lawsuit Feb. 8 seeking to compel the FTC to
sue Google to block the changes, alleging that they violate a
settlement agreement signed last year with the agency. Google
says the changes will make privacy practices easier to
understand and its services easier to use.  “We’ve undertaken the most extensive notification effort
in Google’s history,” said  Chris Gaither , a spokesman. “We’re
continuing to offer choice and control over how people use our
services.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  