-- Obama Promotes Pond Scum to Relieve Dependence on Oil Imports
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-02-24T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/obama-promotes-pond-scum-as-renewable-fuel-source.html
Faced with the highest  oil prices  in
nine months, President Barack Obama is backing pond scum as a
path to energy independence, pitting the nascent algae-based
biofuels industry against critics of his energy plan.  The administration yesterday announced as much as $14.3
million to support the development of biofuels from algae, as
crude oil for April delivery rose to $107.83 on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , its highest settlement price since May.  “We could replace up to 17 percent of the oil we import
for transportation with this fuel that we can grow right here in
the  United States ,” Obama said in Miami during a speech on
energy policy.  The Energy Department is seeking proposals from small
businesses, national laboratories and universities to create
research “test beds” for algal biofuels research at existing
facilities, according to a statement from the agency. The award
money will be part of a $30 million investment in similar
research this year, it said.  Algae, a plant-like organism, can be harvested from ponds
near industrial sites, where it can grow from power-plant  carbon
emissions  or wastewater substances, the White House said in a
fact sheet. The Energy Department is backing more than 30
projects representing about $85 million in public and private
investment to develop biofuels from algae, it said.  Soybean Fuel  An acre of soybeans can produce 60 to 70 gallons of
biofuel, while an acre of algae can provide 2,000 to 5,000
gallons, said John Williams, a spokesman for the  Algal Biomass
Organization , a Preston, Minnesota-based industry group whose
members include  Boeing Co. (BA)  of Chicago and Sapphire Energy Inc.
of  San Diego .  “It’s a huge shot in the arm to have the president talking
about algae” as a fuel source, Williams said in a phone
interview.  Unlike corn-based ethanol, fuel from algae can immediately
be used as a substitute for oil-based products, according to
Sapphire Vice President Tim Zenk. “We’re making drop-in
replacement fuels,” he said in a phone interview.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  of Irving,  Texas , and closely held
Synthetic Genomics Inc. of  La Jolla ,  California , in 2009 began a
partnership to develop algae-based biofuels. Exxon Mobil may
spend as much as $600 million on the program within the next
decade if milestones are met, the company said in a July 2010
statement.  Significant Role  “It’s great to see increasing focus on advanced biofuels
like algae,” said Jonathan Wolfson, chief executive officer of
 Solazyme Inc (SZYM) ., in an e-mail. The San Francisco-based company
delivered about 108,000 gallons (407,000 liters) of renewable
diesel and jet fuel to the Defense Department, and its algal-
derived oil helped fuel a United Continental Holdings Inc.
flight from Houston to  Chicago  in November, he said.  “This is a budding industry that will play a significant
role in helping the U.S.,” Wolfson said.  Critics said the subsidy is unwarranted.  “If algae is an economically viable product, then the
market will determine that,” said Nick Loris, a policy analyst
for the Washington-based Heritage Foundation, which says it
promotes conservative political policies. “I don’t think it
needs $14 million from taxpayers.”  While algae-based biofuels show promise, Obama has taken
other revenue-generating energy proposals “off the table,”
Thomas J. Pyle, president of the Washington-based Institute for
Energy Research, said in a phone interview. TransCanada Corp.’s
proposed Keystone XLpipeline to transport oil from Alberta to
the U.S. Gulf Coast is a “no-brainer,” he said.  “Despite President Obama’s rhetoric, this administration
has done little to address our nation’s growing energy crisis,”
Representative  Fred Upton , a Michigan Republican and chairman of
the House Energy and Commerce Committee, said in a statement.
“What we need is less regulation and more access to secure
supplies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  