-- Obama’s Green-Car Plan Runs Into Alternative-Fuel Limits
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e   a n d   J e f f   G r e e n
-- 2012-02-24T17:29:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/obama-s-green-car-plan-runs-into-alternative-fuel-limits-cars.html
President  Barack Obama ’s
administration is buying fewer hybrid and electric cars and more
vehicles that can consume both ethanol and gasoline to meet 2015
environmental goals, favoring older technology over new.  Obama gave speeches across the U.S. last year touting his
twin goals of buying only alternative-fuel vehicles for the U.S.
fleet by 2015 and getting 1 million electric vehicles on the
country’s roads by that year.  That’s looking more difficult as the federal government
learns the same lesson that U.S. car consumers have already
figured out: it is tough being green. Rather than leading the
way, the government has discovered that the high cost of hybrids
and electric cars and their lack of availability often mean it
makes more sense to buy cars with fuel-efficient conventional
engines.  “You can say you’re engaged in this behavior -- saving the
world -- but it’s not a true picture of what you’re doing if the
vehicles aren’t using alternative fuels,” said  Rebecca Lindland , an industry analyst at IHS Automotive in Norwalk,
 Connecticut .  U.S. General Services Administration purchases of hybrid
and electric models fell 59 percent in fiscal 2011 to about
2,645 as the federal fleet added 32,000 cars and trucks that can
burn a fuel that’s 85 percent ethanol, or E85 vehicles, when
it’s available.  Steeper Decline  The decrease in hybrid- and electric-vehicle buying
compares with a 14 percent decline in overall GSA car and truck
buying last year.  The Obama administration includes vehicles that can use
either E85 ethanol-based fuel or gasoline in its definition of
alternative-fuel vehicles.  “Agencies are well underway implementing those steps and
fully on track to meet the president’s order,” said Taryn Tuss,
a spokeswoman for the White House Council on Environmental
Quality. The number of hybrid vehicles in the federal fleet
almost doubled from 2009 to 2010, she said.  The problem is that buying and driving ethanol fueled cars
solves very little. The GSA, which owns about a third of the
federal fleet, said last year that 88 percent of its
alternative-fuel vehicles are capable of using ethanol. Still,
ethanol fuel pumps are not very common and car owners, including
the federal government, often have to use gasoline instead, said
Lindland.  Fueling, Charging Stations  There are only about 2,512 ethanol fuel pumps available
among the estimated 162,000 fueling stations that sell gasoline.
There are about 6,033 electric charging stations, according to
U.S. Department of Energy data.  The U.S. government, which has given automakers and
suppliers money to develop electric-vehicle technologies, last
year bought 2,645 hybrid, electric and fuel-cell vehicles, less
than 5 percent of the 54,843 vehicles it bought, according to
the data.  That’s a decrease from the 9.5 percent average of all
purchases for those models in fiscal years 2010 and 2009, when
economic stimulus spending fueled $300 million of fuel-efficient
vehicle purchases for the federal fleet of about 600,000 cars
and trucks.  “It is important that the federal government buy advanced-
technology vehicles,” such as hybrid and electric cars,  Dan Becker , director of the Safe Climate Campaign, which advocates
higher fuel-efficiency standards, said in a telephone interview.
“It is disappointing that instead of buying as many advanced
technology vehicles as they should,” they’re buying cars that
run on gas and ethanol.  One Prius  The GSA purchases in fiscal 2011 included 145  General
Motors Co. (GM)  Chevrolet Volts, 12 percent of  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s
Fusion hybrids sold in 2011 and even two-seat electric versions
of  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Smart car, according to GSA data obtained
through a Freedom of Information Act request.  In the year ended Sept. 30, the U.S. government also bought
1,380 hybrid Fusions, 101  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  Insight hybrids and
one  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  Prius among its alternative-fuel vehicle
purchases.  In 2010, federal employees received waivers to use gasoline
in 55 percent of fleet vehicles capable of running on ethanol
because the fuel wasn’t available where the vehicle was used,
the Government Accountability Office found.  Many of the estimated 70 vehicles for the 2011 model year
that can use ethanol are trucks and sport-utility vehicles
getting less than 20 miles per gallon when filled with gasoline.  Keep Pushing  About two-thirds of the U.S. government’s vehicle fleet is
owned or procured by the GSA. The other third belongs to the
U.S. Postal Service, which does its own purchasing.  “Each year, we have procured thousands of fuel-efficient
vehicles to replace older, less-efficient ones,” Adam
Elkington, a GSA spokesman, said in an e-mail. “Over the last
three years, GSA procured vehicles that were on average 23
percent more fuel-efficient than the vehicles they replaced.”  Even if the market environment is difficult, the Obama
administration does need to keep pushing hybrid and electric car
purchases within the federal fleet, Lindland said.  In 2010, the most-recent data available, the U.S.
government’s gasoline use rose to a 25-year high, increasing 3.3
percent to 50.3 trillion British thermal units, according to
preliminary data compiled by the U.S. Energy Information
Administration. Obama has said he wants to reduce U.S. oil
imports, saying promoting greener vehicles is part of that
strategy.  “They don’t want to be accused of ‘Do as I say, not as I
do,’” said Lindland. “They will lose credibility if the
government isn’t leading the way.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  