-- Obama Fee on Food Processors for Safety Would Raise Prices, Industry Says
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2012-02-24T20:05:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/obama-fee-on-food-processors-for-safety-would-raise-prices-industry-says.html
An Obama administration plan to
raise $220 million for food-safety programs through fees on
processing plants, warehouses and other facilities would hit
consumers with higher food prices, industry groups said.  Congress rejected including a similar proposal in the  Food
and Drug Administration ’s budget request last year and also
ruled out the idea when debating a food-safety law that
President  Barack Obama  signed last year.  Thirty-three industry groups said the cost of a food
facility registration fee proposed by the administration to help
fund oversight would be passed on to consumers at a time of
economic hardship, according to a Feb. 23 letter the
associations sent to top U.S. lawmakers.  “As food companies and consumers continue to cope with a
period of prolonged economic turbulence, the creation of a new
food tax would mean higher costs for food makers and higher food
prices for our consumers,” associations representing egg
producers, snack foods, juice, meat and other industries said in
the letter.  The letter was sent to House Appropriations Committee
Chairman Hal Rogers, a Kentucky Republican, and Representative
Norm Dicks, a Washington Democrat, among others. Rogers and
Dicks sit on the panel that oversees discretionary spending for
food safety and agriculture programs.  Industry Concerns  The  American Frozen Food Institute , National Meat
Association, International Dairy Foods Association and United
Fresh Produce Association were among the groups signing the
letter. The FDA projects it will collect $220 million in fees in
fiscal year 2013.  “We stand ready to work with Congress and the
administration to find a better and less burdensome solution,”
the groups said in the letter.  Congress raised the FDA’s budget by about $40 million in
fiscal 2012 to support the law, which contains the biggest
changes to food safety rules in more than 70 years.  The fees are minimal compared with the cost of foodborne
illness, which the act seeks to reduce, Doug Karas, a spokesman
for the FDA, said in an e-mail. Such illnesses cost
$77.7 billion a year, according to a 2012 study cited in the
agency’s proposal. That includes medical costs, time off work
and the cost of premature death.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim in Washington at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  