-- Oil Rises a Seventh Day in Longest Winning Streak in Two Years
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-02-24T13:13:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/oil-rises-a-seventh-day-in-new-york-longest-winning-streak-in-two-years.html
Oil advanced a seventh day, the
longest winning streak since January 2010, on signs of economic
recovery from the U.S. to  Germany  and concern escalating tension
with Iran threatens crude supplies.  Futures climbed from the highest close in more than nine
months and headed for a third weekly gain. U.S.  jobless claims 
held at the fewest since March 2008, while South Korean  consumer
confidence  increased to the highest level in three months and
Germany’s gross domestic product grew 1.5 percent from a year
ago, an eighth quarter of expansion. Oil may rise next week as
sanctions on Iran tighten, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  “Downside risks from a complete macroeconomic meltdown are
receding fast,” said  Paul Horsnell , London-based head of
commodities research at Barclays Plc. “However, geopolitical
risks are on the rise, with the escalating tension about  Iran 
manifesting itself in a series of proxy wars.”  Oil for April delivery increased as much as 0.8 percent to
$108.70 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  and was at $108.26 at 1:09 p.m. London time.
The contract yesterday gained 1.5 percent to $107.83, the
highest close since May 4. Prices are 4.9 percent higher this
week and up 11 percent the past year.  Brent oil for April settlement was at $123.83 a barrel, up
21 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark contract’s  premium  to New York-traded WTI was
at $15.57, compared with $15.79 yesterday. It reached a record
of $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Crude Stockpiles  U.S. initial unemployment claims were 351,000 last week,
according to Labor Department data yesterday.  South Korea ’s
sentiment index rose to 100 in February from 98 in January, the
 Bank of Korea  said in an e-mailed statement today. Germany’s
economy expanded year-on-year in the fourth quarter while
contracting 0.8 percent from the third quarter, data from the
Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden showed.  “The data is consistent with the overall picture of
moderate economic growth that has now been in place for quite a
while,” said Ric Spooner, a chief market analyst at CMC Markets
in Sydney. “The Iranian situation is a large one. Markets react
to the possibility of supply-side risk or a drop in supply.”  U.S. Inventories  U.S. crude stockpiles climbed  1.6 million barrels  last
week, data from the Energy Department showed. They were forecast
to increase 1.35 million, according to the median of 10 analyst
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. Gasoline supplies fell
649,000 barrels, compared with a projected 250,000 barrel gain.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said this week that West Texas
Intermediate crude will rise this year, even as the highest U.S.
oil production in nine years threatens to build stockpiles. The
glut will be relieved in June, when flows through the Seaway
pipeline are reversed, giving producers in  Canada  and  North
Dakota  direct access to refineries on the  Gulf coast , it said in
a Feb. 22 report.  “The positive tone helped the crude oil market shake off
weekly U.S. EIA inventory data that showed a larger-than-
expected build,”  Mark Pervan , head of commodity research at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Melbourne, said in
a note today. “While there was a level of concern that the 4-
week moving average for total U.S. product demand slipped to its
lowest level since April 1997, energy markets appear focused on
a potentially tight supply situation in the  Middle East .”  Banking Sanctions  Turkiye Halk Bankasi AS, the Turkish bank that handles
payments for Iranian oil, may stop processing transactions for
supplies into Turkish refineries from July, according to an
official at Tupras Turkiye Petrol Rafinerileri AS, which
operates four plants.  Tupras won’t be able to use the bank after June 30 without
a U.S. waiver, the official said yesterday, declining to be
identified because of company policy. State-run Halk complies
with all international regulations and standard practices on
Iran, an official at the Ankara-based lender said by phone
yesterday, declining to be identified for the same reason.  The U.S. has offered to help  India , which also uses Halk
for payments to Iran, get alternative supplies for the crude,
according to three people with knowledge of the matter. The U.S.
may help broker deals with suppliers such as  Iraq  and  Saudi
Arabia , the people said, declining to be identified because the
information is confidential.  Indian refiners have been told that Halk’s services may
soon be terminated, four people with knowledge of the matter
said Jan. 10.  Iran, the second-biggest member in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, produced about 3.5 million
barrels of oil a day last month, according to analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Saudi Arabia had output of 9.7
million barrels a day and Iraq had 2.8 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in  Melbourne  at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  