-- No Bailouts for Romney’s Intellectual Bankruptcy: Jonathan Alter
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 2012-02-24T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/on-bailouts-romney-is-intellectually-bust-commentary-by-jonathan-alter.html
By all accounts,  Mitt Romney  is a
smart businessman with a sophisticated understanding of how
economies work. So why is he so tied up in knots over basic
questions of  government spending  in a recession and the limits
of the free market?  Because he’s running for president in a party that has lost
its economic common sense, its political bearings and  probably 
Michigan’s electoral votes.  Here’s the Republican candidate off-script (the best way to
find out what’s in his head) at a town hall  meeting  Tuesday in
Shelby Township, Michigan: “If you just cut, if all you’re
thinking about doing is cutting spending, why, as you cut
spending you’ll slow down the economy, so you have to at the
same time create pro-growth tax policies.”  This is a classic example of a “Kinsley gaffe” (named for
my Bloomberg View colleague  Michael Kinsley ), which is when a
politician accidentally says something that’s true but
politically inconvenient.  Sure enough, Andy Roth, vice president for government
affairs at the fiscally conservative Club for Growth, called
Romney’s comments “hogwash.” Roth said the statement “confirms
yet again that Romney is not a limited government conservative.
The idea that balancing the budget would not help the economy is
crazy. If we balanced the budget tomorrow on spending cuts
alone, it would be fantastic for the economy.”  Ask a Professor  Oh, really? If we balanced the budget by immediately
cutting $1.3 trillion in spending, as some Tea Party adherents
advocate, unemployment would surge. Spending cuts (mostly
through entitlement reform) are critical in the medium and long
term, but they’re harmful when the economy is weak. If you don’t
believe Romney or me on this point, ask any economics professor
who isn’t a crackpot.  After Romney’s gaffe, a campaign spokesman undertook damage
control with a tortured statement that amounted to saying that
Romney supports the House Republican “ Cut and Grow ” economic
policy. This is the one that shuns all “investment” as a
Democratic codeword for spending (thereby repudiating 150 years
of Republican support for infrastructure investments) and says
that the route to economic growth is through tax cuts.  A preview of Romney’s tax plan making its debut Friday in a
speech in  Detroit   suggests  that “Romneynomics” would in effect
transfer wealth from the poor and the future old (through
draconian cuts in Medicaid and Medicare) to the wealthy (through
more tax cuts at the upper end). You may recall that President
 George W. Bush  tried a variant of this with his 2001 tax cuts
and the result was the weakest decade of job growth since the
1930s.  Romney is trapped in a “theology” (to use  Rick Santorum ’s
word in a different context) that he knows is completely
inadequate for addressing our economic problems.  We first glimpsed that trap during the 2008-09 economic
crisis. Like many in his party, Romney supported the Troubled
Asset Relief Program for banks but opposed the portion of TARP
devoted to the  auto industry . He was sure the auto bailouts
would fail and thus he was safe in writing his now famous  “Let
Detroit Go Bankrupt”  op-ed article in the New York Times.  In fairness to Romney, that piece was written in November
2008, when clueless automakers were asking for money from the
outgoing  Bush administration  with no strings attached. (They got
$17.4 billion and flushed it down the same old rat holes.)
Romney wrote that government guarantees for warranties and post-
bankruptcy financing would be acceptable and these eventually
became part of the Obama deal.  Intellectually Bankrupt  Even so, the premise of that piece, which endorsed a
“managed bankruptcy” without direct federal money, was itself
intellectually bankrupt. It assumed that the car companies would
find new investors after reorganization. But the firm Romney co-
founded, Bain Capital LLC, was among many potential creditors
that refused to touch any deal involving auto companies. The
billions necessary to keep  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler
alive weren’t available from any place but the government. When
CNN moderator John King made this point during Wednesday’s
debate among Republican candidates, Romney tried to  ignore  it.  Romney’s approach was popular among many Republicans, who
hypocritically argued that the rules of free market capitalism
could be suspended to bail out bankers but not workers. Sure,
hundreds of thousands of people working for auto companies or
their suppliers would lose their jobs, but that was just part of
capitalism’s “creative destruction.”  This selective approach to conservative principles -- not
Romney’s opposition to the auto bailouts -- is what put Romney
in trouble with primary voters in Michigan, where Santorum’s
consistency in opposing all bailouts has won him conservative
support.  Santorum tried to use that consistency to his advantage in
Wednesday’s debate. Like so much else about his performance, he
failed. Could it be that free market fundamentalists have been
consistently wrong for three years? They are the “little minds”
Ralph Waldo Emerson had in mind when he savaged the “hobgoblin”
of “foolish consistency.”  Every so often, history renders a clear verdict. However
noxious and debatable the particulars, the TARP bank bailouts
averted a global run on American banks and a depression. They
helped to stabilize the global economy. Almost all of the money
has been paid back.  The auto bailouts? The reduction in  Michigan ’s  unemployment 
rate from 14.1 percent in 2009 to 9.3 percent today isn’t a
matter of opinion or differing economic philosophy. It’s a happy
reality that should make any open-minded conservative
acknowledge that dogmatic adherence to abstract principles
usually ends badly.  Romney’s core problem is that he doesn’t have the courage
of his pragmatic impulses. If he did, he’d stick with his view
that cutting spending sharply in the short term is a bad idea,
and that in extremely rare circumstances we must hold our noses,
put principles aside and let  Washington  prop up vital
industries.  Of course he can’t say that, which means that winning
Michigan is all but out of reach for him or any other Republican
candidate this fall.  ( Jonathan Alter  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
author of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 