-- Monsanto Settles West Virginia Lawsuits Over Nitro Plant
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-02-24T20:31:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/monsanto-says-it-settled-west-virginia-lawsuits-over-nitro-plant.html
Monsanto Co. (MON) , the world’s biggest
seed company, agreed to settle all pending litigation relating
to dioxin contamination from a plant in Nitro,  West Virginia ,
that produced Agent Orange herbicide decades ago.  The settlements to the litigation, which include class-
action lawsuits filed in the state, provide as much as $9
million to have 4,500 homes professionally cleaned, St. Louis-
based Monsanto said today in a statement. Monsanto also will
provide as much as $84 million over 30 years for medical
monitoring of current and former residents, workers and
students, and it will pay the community’s legal fees and court
costs over the past seven years.  The plant, which operated from 1929 to 2004 under various
owners, produced  Agent Orange , used during the  Vietnam War  to
defoliate jungle vegetation. The process to make Agent Orange
was found to produce  dioxins , which are linked to cancer and
other ailments. Monsanto hasn’t made Agent Orange since  1969 .  “We are please to resolve this matter and end any concerns
about historic operations at the Nitro plant,” Scott Partridge,
Monsanto counsel, said in the statement.  The settlements will reduce net income in fiscal 2012 by
about 5 cents a share, Monsanto said. Kelli Powers, a company
spokeswoman, declined to quantify any costs in subsequent years.  “The settlements provide needed medical benefits and
remediation services to the people of Nitro and broader
community,” Stuart Caldwell, class counsel, said in the
statement.  An official at the Putnam County Circuit Court said that
there wasn’t a court filing about a settlement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  