-- Morgan Stanley’s Garner ‘Very Concerned’ About India Stocks as Oil Surges
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-02-24T02:26:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/morgan-stanley-s-garner-very-concerned-about-india-stocks-as-oil-surges.html
Morgan Stanley is “very concerned”
about  India ’s stock market because the nation is a major oil
importer,  Jonathan Garner , chief Asia and emerging-market
strategist for Morgan Stanley, said.  “We don’t think the fundamentals have improved that much
on the ground in India and there’s still a lot of political
risks and there’s this new factor of a surge in oil,” Garner
said in a Bloomberg Television interview today.  Higher oil prices boosts costs for companies in India,
which imports three-quarters of its energy needs. Crude futures
have risen for seven straight days, the longest winning streak
since January 2010, as investors bet global economic growth and
supply disruptions in Iran will boost prices. Futures traded in
 New York  gained as much as 0.8 percent in electronic trading
today after settling at a nine-month high yesterday.  The BSE India Sensitive Index, or  Sensex (SENSEX) , has rebounded 19
percent from its December low, near the 20 percent threshold
that signals a bull market, as a strengthening rupee and the
first cut in banks’ reserve ratios since 2009 spurred offshore
funds to buy more than $5 billion of stocks.  The Indian stock gauge trades at 15.9 times estimated
profit, 69 percent above the MSCI BRIC Index’s multiple. The
MSCI gauge tracks the largest emerging markets of Brazil,
Russia, India and China.  “After outperforming this much, and with rising crude oil
prices and seasonally tighter monetary conditions, India looks
vulnerable to profit-taking,” Niall MacLeod,  Asia  equity
strategist at UBS AG in  Hong Kong , wrote in a note yesterday.  Morgan Stanley is overweight on emerging-market energy
stocks and likes software and real estate companies, according
to Garner. The brokerage doesn’t recommend telecommunication and
materials stocks, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  