-- Morgan Stanley Adds Mexico Fixed-Income Group, Harland Says
-- B y   D r e w   B e n s o n
-- 2012-02-24T15:09:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/morgan-stanley-adding-mexico-fixed-income-group-harland-says.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) , owner of the world’s
biggest brokerage, is setting up a fixed-income group in  Mexico 
as part of its expansion in Latin America, said Christopher Harland, the bank’s regional head.  The addition of the fixed-income team follows the bank’s
move to trade stocks on the Mexican exchange, said Harland, a
28-year veteran of the bank. Morgan Stanley operates integrated
securities firms in  Brazil  and Mexico with smaller
representative offices in Peru and  Argentina , a country where
Harland said Morgan Stanley has “a number of very high quality
mandates” to manage debt and equity offerings.  “The increasing trend is to have some physical presence,”
Harland said in an interview at Bloomberg’s New York
headquarters yesterday. “One person, two people, as small as
that may sound, makes a world of difference. Being local doesn’t
mean going in all guns blazing. Today if you wait for the
different silos to be in place you’ll be too late.”  Morgan Stanley is building up its staff in the region as
other banks retreat. ING Groep NV, the biggest Dutch financial
services company, cut jobs from its  Latin America  dollar-
denominated debt group in December, firing five people in
Mexico.  ‘Very Upbeat’  Harland said the number of employees, excluding
secretaries, has climbed to 35 in Mexico from 11 when he took
over the position four years ago. It rose to 205 from 161 in
Brazil, which accounts for about 55 percent of the bank’s
business in Latin America, according to Harland.  “I’m very upbeat about the prospects for Brazil,” he
said. “But I’m even more upbeat in growth terms for some of the
Andean markets.”  The yield on Mexico’s benchmark peso-denominated bonds due
in 2024 has dropped 15 basis points, or 0.15 percentage point,
this year to 6.51 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican dollar
bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  narrowed 13 basis points this
year to 209, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. The securities
have returned 0.5 percent this year through yesterday, compared
with a 4.1 percent gain for emerging-market debt.  Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Benson in New York at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  