-- Motorola, Proview, Michael Jordan: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-02-24T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/motorola-proview-michael-jordan-intellectual-property.html
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI)  said
it is open to resolving its patent-licensing dispute with
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  in a “mutually beneficial manner” after
Microsoft filed an antitrust complaint with the European
Commission.  Microsoft’s filing, and a related blog post, were “simply
tactics in the patent battle that Microsoft initiated with
surprise infringement actions against Motorola Mobility in
October 2010,” Gemma Goatly, a spokeswoman for Libertyville,
Illinois-based Motorola Mobility, said in an e-mailed statement.  The European Commission said yesterday that it received
complaints from Microsoft concerning Motorola Mobility and
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  Microsoft said the actions were in response to
attempts by Motorola Mobility to block sales of personal
computers and game consoles that run its software.  “We just received the complaint and we are looking into
this,”  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s competition chief told
reporters yesterday in Brussels. “These patent issues are very
important.”  Microsoft, based in Redmond,  Washington , said Google, which
is buying Motorola Mobility for $12.5 billion, was included in
the complaint because it hadn’t committed to change Motorola
Mobility’s policies.  “Microsoft has touted the value of patent licensing for
its own patents, but a fair resolution requires that Microsoft
also recognize the value of the Motorola Mobility patents it is
using,” Goatly said.  Motorola Mobility, Microsoft, Samsung Electronics Co. and
Apple Inc. are involved in numerous patent lawsuits in  Europe  as
demand for smartphones and tablets soar.  Apple has filed a patent-licensing complaint against
Motorola Mobility with the European Commission. The commission
is also probing Samsung over whether it broke licensing
commitments.  Whether Microsoft’s filing is grouped together with Apple’s
for consideration by EU antitrust officials depends on the
“substance of each one of the complaints,” Almunia said.  Comcast Sues Sprint Over Four Telecommunications Patents  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the largest U.S. cable company, sued a unit
of  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  over four telecommunications patents.  Comcast “has been irreparably harmed by that infringement
and will suffer additional damages,” unless the court prevents
additional infringement, lawyers for the company said in a
complaint filed Feb. 21 in Delaware federal court.  Scott M. Sloat, a spokesman for Overland Park, Kansas-based
Sprint, said the company couldn’t immediately comment on the
lawsuit.  Comcast contends that services provided by Sprint, the
nation’s third-largest wireless phone company, misappropriated
technology used for accessing communication data.  Comcast last week filed a separate suit against Sprint
claiming infringement of four other telecommunication patents in
federal court in Philadelphia. Sprint sued Philadelphia-based
Comcast and three other cable companies in December alleging
infringement of patents related to transmitting phone calls over
digital lines.  In dispute are patents 7,012,916; 7,206,304; 7,903,641; and
6,873,694.  The case is Comcast v. Sprint, 12-cv-00205, U.S. District
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Shanghai Court Rejects Proview Request to Halt Apple IPad Sales  A court in Shanghai rejected a request by the Shenzhen unit
of  Proview International Holdings Ltd. (334)  to halt sales of  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad tablet in the city, the lawyer for the Chinese
company said.  The Pudong District Court’s decision is “wrong” and
Proview’s Shenzhen-based unit will appeal the ruling, Roger Xie,
an attorney for the company, said in an interview yesterday.
Apple spokeswoman Carolyn Wu, based in Beijing, said she didn’t
immediately have information available on the issue.  Proview’s Shenzhen unit had asked the Shanghai court on
Feb. 22 to stop sales of the iPad in the city because it
infringes on a trademark the company received in 2001. The
Shanghai court suspended the case to allow another court time to
deliver a ruling on who owns the trademark.  “I don’t agree with their reason,” Xie said of
yesterday’s ruling in  Shanghai . “They should protect the
interest of the trademark holder in compliance with  China  law.
We will appeal.”  Apple says it purchased Proview’s iPad trademark in China
in 2009 and sued Proview over the rights in 2010 in the Shenzhen
Intermediate People’s Court.  The Shenzhen court rejected Apple’s claim in November and
said its contract with Proview’s Taipei-based unit failed to
prove the transfer was authorized by the owner in Shenzhen.
Apple appealed the loss and a hearing of that case is scheduled
for Feb. 29 before the Higher People’s Court of Guangdong.  Michael Jordan Sues Chinese Sportswear Company Over Use of Name  Michael Jordan, the hall-of-fame basketball player who
heads his own division at the world’s largest sporting-goods
maker  Nike Inc. (NKE) , sued a Chinese maker of sportswear and shoes
for unauthorized use of his name.  Jordan, who won six National Basketball Association
championships with the Chicago Bulls, filed the lawsuit with a
Chinese court against  Qiaodan Sports Co. (QDTYSZ) , according to a
statement distributed by PR Newswire. The Chinese company, which
is preparing to raise 1.06 billion yuan ($168 million) in a
listing in Shanghai, is accused of using Jordan’s Chinese name
and jersey number 23 without permission.  “It is deeply disappointing to see a company build a
business off my Chinese name without my permission, use the
number 23 and even attempt to use the names of my children,”
Jordan said in a statement. “I am taking this action to
preserve ownership of my name and my brand.”  NBA games shown on state broadcaster China Central
Television and Chinese players including Yao Ming have helped
make basketball the nation’s second-most popular sport. Nike,
which counts Jordan and current NBA stars Kobe Bryant and Lebron
James among its endorsers, said its sales in China for the
quarter ended Nov. 30 rose 28 percent from a year earlier to
$650 million when excluding currency changes.  Asked if Nike was involved in the lawsuit, Josh Gartner, a
spokesman for Jordan’s legal team, said by e-mail that the
former NBA player “is employing his own legal counsel.”  The company’s name and its trademark are the same as the
Chinese version of Jordan’s name.  The Chinese company, with registered capital of 450 million
yuan and based in Southern China’s Fujian province, won approval
from the nation’s securities regulator in November for an
initial public offering of 112.5 million shares.  In its IPO prospectus released on Nov. 21, Qiaodan said
investors should be aware of potential trademark risks, saying
some consumers may link the company and its products to Jordan
due to confusion, though it claimed to have no commercial
relationships with the former NBA star and has never used his
image in promotions.  “Qiaodan’ is a brand we registered according to Chinese
law, and its lawful use should be protected,” Qiaodan said in a
statement posted on its website yesterday.  Jordan said in the statement issued Feb. 22 that any
monetary awards from the lawsuit “will be invested in growing
the sport of basketball in China.”  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Astrolabe Backs Down from Copyright Claims Against Scientists  Astrolabe Inc.  a maker of astrology software programs, has
withdrawn the copyright-infringement suit it filed against two
computer scientists.  The Brewster, Massachusetts-based company sued Arthur David
Olson of the National Institutes of Health’s National Cancer
Institute and Paul R. Eggert of the Computer Science Department
of the University of  California ,  Los Angeles  in federal court in
Boston Sept. 30.  The two computer scientists were accused of infringing the
copyright for an atlas containing historical time zone
information. Astrolabe objects to the scientists’ websites
publication of time zone data.  Astrolabe asked the court to order the two scientists to
halt their alleged infringement, and for awards of money
damages, attorney fees and litigation costs. Astrolabe bases its
claims on its ownership of the “ACS International Atlas,” the
“ACS American Atlas,” and related software programs and
databases.  The case has attracted the interest of the scientific and
technology community because the data is used in Unix and Linux
platforms to set clocks and for time-zone updates. In  a posting
to a technology interest-group mailing list , Olson said the
server that provides these updates has been shut down in
response to the suit.  Stephen Colebourne, a developer who works with Java
programs in the U.K., had said  in a blog posting  that the result
of the takedown was that “there is no longer a single central
location for time-zone information for computing.”  In a notice posted on its website Jan. 12, San Francisco-
based  Electronic Frontier Foundation  called the suit “bogus,”
saying that facts aren’t copyright protectable.  Noting that Olson took the updates offline, EFF said the
case “would be laughable but for the dangerous consequence”
and noted the “shock and dismay of the many users and
developers who relied upon the updates.”  Although EFF said it would file a motion seeking sanctions
against Astrolabe, that motion was never filed, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  In a Feb. 22 filing, Astrolabe has agreed to dismiss the
case. The two defendants hadn’t answered the complaint or filed
a motion to have the case dismissed.  The scientists were represented by  Adam J. Kessel  and
 Olivia T. Nguyen  of  Fish & Richardson PC (1357L)  and  Corynne McSherry 
and  Mitchell L. Stoltz  of the Electronic Frontier Foundation.
Astrolabe’s lawyer was Julie C. Malloy of East Sandwich,
 Massachusetts .  The case is Astrolabe Inc. v. Olson 1:11-cv-11725-GAO, U.S.
District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  For copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Sloan-Kettering Chief Faces Suit by University of Pennsylvania  The head of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center was
accused by the University of Pennsylvania in a lawsuit of
breaching his fiduciary duty to the school by using research he
helped develop there to start his own company.  The complaint against Dr. Craig Thompson, filed Feb. 22 in
 Manhattan  federal court, follows a Dec. 13 complaint against him
by the Leonard and Madlyn Abramson Family Cancer Research
Institute at the Philadelphia-based school. He hasn’t yet
responded to that complaint, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Both complaints also name the company Thompson
formed, Agios Pharmaceuticals Inc.  Thompson breached his duty “by failing to disclose to the
university research and discoveries that he instead provided to
a for-profit corporation and ultimately publicly disclosed in
international journal publications, both to the detriment of the
university,” according to the complaint.  Thompson studied cancer metabolism while he was scientific
director of the institute, which was created by a $100 million
donation from the Abramson family foundation to the university,
according to the suits against him. Without telling the
university, Thompson formed Agios to exploit the research, the
complaints say.  Thompson’s lawyer, Allan J. Arffa, and John Evans, a
spokesman for Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Agios, didn’t
immediately return calls for comment on the new breach-of-
contract and breach-of-duty lawsuit.  The suit doesn’t name Memorial Sloan-Kettering.  The cases are Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania v.
Thompson, 12-cv-1330, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
 New York  (Manhattan), and Leonard and Madlyn Abramson Family
Cancer Research Institute v. Thompson, 11-09108, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  IP Moves  McDermott Expands California IP Practice, Hires Bhanu Sadasivan  McDermott Will & Emery LLP (1121L)  hired Bhanu K. Sadasivan for its
IP practice, the Chicago-based firm said in a statement.  Sadasivan , a litigator, has previously practiced at  San
Francisco ’s  Heller Ehrman LLP (1163L)  and Washington-based  Covington &
Burling (1175L) . She has litigated patent and trade secrets cases for
clients in the pharmaceutical, biotech, semi-conductor, consumer
electronics, computer software and Internet retailing
industries.  Before she was a lawyer, she did post-doctoral research at
Brigham & Women’s Hospital, Harvard Medical School. She will
practice at McDermott’s Silicon Valley office.  Sadasivan has an undergraduate degree and a master’s degree
from All India Institute of Medical Sciences, a doctorate in
immunology from  Yale University , and a law degree from Berkeley
Law at the  University of California .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 