-- Housing Weakness Impedes Monetary Policy, Feroli, Harris Say
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-02-24T15:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/housing-weakness-impedes-monetary-policy-feroli-harris-say.html
Weakness in housing is a “main
impediment” to a stronger economic recovery and to the
effectiveness of monetary policy, according to economists at
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   “Problems related to housing introduce significant
challenges to monetary policy-making,” according to a  paper 
presented today at a forum in New York. The paper recommends
policies that directly tackle housing issues, such as assisting
in refinancing underwater mortgages and helping turn foreclosed
properties into rentals.  “Few doubt that  housing  weakens the effectiveness of
monetary policy and represents a drag on economic growth going
forward,” wrote  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at
JPMorgan, and  Ethan Harris , co-head of global economic research
at Bank of America. “The difficulty lies in quantifying how
large these effects are.”  The 47-page paper shows that in states that dodged the
housing bust, such as  Texas  and the Dakotas, gauges of real
economic activity have recovered rapidly compared with the rest
of the country. Since 2006, home renovations in such states are
19 percent higher, new residential investment is 5 percent
higher and auto sales are 10 percent higher, providing estimates
of what the rest of the country is missing.  Record Stimulus  Record monetary stimulus from Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ,
including more than three years of zero  interest rates  and $2.3
trillion of asset purchases, has failed to return unemployment
near the levels that prevailed in recent decades. The collapse
in  housing  and a malfunctioning mortgage market may be the key
reason, according to Feroli and Harris, whose paper was
cowritten by Amir Sufi at the University of Chicago Booth School
of Business and Kenneth West at the  University of Wisconsin .  “The period of freefall in the housing market ended two
years ago, but the housing market is best described as being in
a slow-bleed equilibrium,” the authors write.  The damage the housing collapse caused to state and local
government financing and to housing-related services remains
“underappreciated” by business economists, they write.  The paper was presented today at the 2012 U.S. Monetary
Policy Forum in New York to an audience of policy makers
including New York Fed President  William Dudley , St. Louis Fed
President James Bullard, Philadelphia’s  Charles Plosser  and San
Francisco’s  John Williams .  ‘Market Frictions’  “It is crucial that policy makers think carefully about
the market frictions that justify a policy response,” Feroli
and coauthors wrote. “A mistake would be to adopt policies that
seek to artificially boost  house prices  and residential
investment going forward.”  Bernanke sent a Fed study on the U.S. housing market to
Congress last month. In a cover letter, he said “restoring the
health of the housing market is a necessary part of a broader
strategy for economic recovery.”  The Fed chairman said policies that would help resolve the
slumping housing market could include programs to ease the
conversion of foreclosed properties to rental properties.
Avoiding foreclosure through “a broad menu” of loan
modifications could also help minimize foreclosures, he said.  “We also believe that policies must recognize the
possibility that a dramatic overinvestment in housing driven by
unsustainable house price growth during the boom will not be
magically cured,” they wrote. “In this sense, policies should
identify specific market frictions and target those frictions,
rather than attempt to boost house prices artificially.”  Fed officials are debating whether to launch a new program
to purchase additional mortgage-backed securities, a decision
that  San Francisco ’s Williams said is a “close call.”  ‘Policy Accommodation’  “We may still need to provide more policy accommodation if
the economy loses momentum or inflation remains well below 2
percent,” Williams said in a Feb. 8 speech in San Ramon,
 California . “Should that occur, restarting our program of
purchasing mortgage-backed securities would likely be the best
way to provide a boost to the economy.”  Purchases of new homes in the U.S. exceeded forecasts in
January after climbing a month earlier to a one-year high, more
evidence the housing market is stabilizing. Sales were 321,000
at an annual pace, beating the median estimate of 77 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News who called for a rise to 315,000.  Sales, tabulated when contracts are signed, fell 0.9
percent to a 321,000 annual pace from a 324,000 rate in December
that was stronger than previously reported, figures from the
Commerce Department showed today in  Washington . The median
estimate of 77 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for
a rise to 315,000. The number of homes for sale dropped to a
record low.  Confidence among U.S. homebuilders rose in February to the
highest level since May 2007 as sales and buyer traffic
improved, according to the National Association of Home
Builders/Wells Fargo sentiment gauge.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  New York  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  