-- Housing Declines May Have Cost a Generation of Buyers, Fed’s Bullard Says
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-02-24T20:28:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/housing-declines-may-have-cost-a-generation-of-buyers-fed-s-bullard-says.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said the 30 percent drop in U.S. housing
prices since 2006 may prompt a generational shift to apartment
rentals.  “My sense is that the housing debacle of the past five
years may have scared off a generation of potential
homeowners,” Bullard said today in a speech in  New York . “New
home buyers likely see homeownership as a fundamentally riskier
proposition than earlier cohorts and therefore may be far more
likely to rent rather than own.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told homebuilders in Orlando,
 Florida , this month that the U.S. recovery has been
“frustratingly slow” in part because weak housing markets are
holding back  consumer spending . The  Federal Open Market
Committee  said Jan. 25 subdued inflation and economic slack are
likely to warrant keeping rates near zero at least through late
2014, extending a previous date of mid-2013 or later.  Bullard indicated that a monetary policy aimed at lowering
 interest rates  and encouraging borrowing may not be suitable at
a time when families are trying to reduce their debt.  “One of the fundamental tensions in current U.S.
macroeconomic policy is the tendency to push against the need to
reduce household debt levels,” Bullard said at the U.S.
Monetary Policy Forum hosted by the University of Chicago Booth
School of Business. “Seemingly paradoxical policy” encourages
“borrowing in the context of an economy with too much
borrowing.”  ‘Large Wedge’  Bullard commented in response to a research paper
concluding that falling home prices and tight credit have
impaired the Fed’s ability to stimulate growth by introducing
“a large wedge” between the target rate and the borrowing rate
for households. The paper was written by Michael Feroli, chief
U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co., and Ethan Harris, co-
head of global economic research at Bank of America Corp.  Economic reports today added to evidence of a strengthening
economy.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of
consumer sentiment increased to 75.3 this month from 75 in
January. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey called
for 73, after a preliminary reading of 72.5.  Purchases of new homes declined 0.9 percent in January to a
321,000 annual rate from a 324,000 pace in December that was
stronger than previously reported, Commerce Department figures
showed today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey called
for 315,000 pace last month.  Stocks Climb  The  S&P 500  increased 0.1 percent to 1,365.16 at 3:27 p.m.
New York time, paring an earlier advance of as much as 0.4
percent. The benchmark gauge exceeded its April 2011 peak of
1,363.61, which was the highest level since June 2008.  The St. Louis Fed president repeated his view that the
amount of slack in the  U.S. economy  may be considerably less
than most economists estimate because growth was artificially
boosted by the housing bubble. Attempts to lift the economy
“back to trend” before the recession “will not be very
effective,” he said.  “The situation in U.S. housing markets represents a
quantitatively significant headwind,” Bullard said, citing the
authors’ view that “improvement is likely to be very slow” and
“there is no presumption that a booming housing market would be
desirable in the aftermath of the collapse of the bubble.”  Bullard, who doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year, was
the first Fed official in 2010 to call for a second round of
asset purchases by the central bank.  Bullard joined the St. Louis Fed’s research department in
1990 and became president of the regional bank in 2008. His
district includes  Arkansas  and parts of  Illinois , Indiana,
Kentucky, Mississippi, Missouri and  Tennessee .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  