-- Lloyds Forecasts Lower 2012 Profit After Wider-Than-Estimated Loss in 2011
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-02-24T16:40:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/lloyds-forecasts-lower-2012-profit-after-wider-than-estimated-loss-in-2011.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s
largest mortgage lender, posted a wider-than-estimated full-year
loss on a weaker U.K. economy and said income will drop in 2012.  The net loss widened to 2.8 billion pounds ($4.4 billion)
from 320 million pounds in 2010, after the bank compensated
customers mis-sold loan insurance, the London-based lender said
in a statement today. The loss missed the 2.41 billion-pound
median estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The anemic economic outlook forced the lender to delay
revenue and profitability targets set last year. A prolonged
period of low  interest rates  is also hurting the lender’s net
interest margin, the difference between what it earns on loans
and its cost of funding. Chief Executive Officer Antonio Horta- Osorio, who took over from  Eric Daniels  in March last year,
today announced an additional 200 million pounds in cost savings
by 2014 to maintain profit.  “This is going to be a very difficult year,” Horta-
Osorio, 48, told reporters on a conference call today. “We
expect the attainment of our income-related targets to be
delayed as a result of the weaker economic outlook.”  Lloyds fell 2.3 percent to 35.73 pence in London trading,
less than half the 73.6 pence the government paid for its stake
when it provided a bailout of more than 20 billion pounds to
Lloyds in 2008 after its takeover of HBOS Plc. The Bloomberg
Europe Banks and Financial Services Index gained 0.9 percent.  ‘Realistic Appraisal’  “Analysts were quite skeptical of his predecessor’s net
interest margin target,” said  Bruce Packard , an analyst at
Seymour Pierce in London with a “hold” rating on the shares.
“Now it feels like we are getting closer to a realistic
appraisal of the business.”  The bank said today it expects it won’t meet the target it
set in June of boosting return on equity to 12.5 percent to 14.5
percent by the end of 2014. Lloyds’s net interest margin fell 14
basis points to 2.07 percent. The margin will drop by the same
amount in 2012 and be below 2 percent, the bank said.  “The outlook statement has a lot of home truths in it and
contains some very cautious messages,” said  Ian Gordon , an
analyst at Investec Bank Plc in London, with a “hold” rating
on the stock. “We knew that revenues were falling but now we
know that they’re falling by a lot more.”  Lloyds said it had made impairments on 90 percent of its
10.9 billion-pound Irish commercial property book as the
country’s property market worsened. In all, two-thirds of the
bank’s Irish loans are unlikely to be repaid, Lloyds said.  PPI Redress  Pretax profit at Lloyds’s consumer banking unit fell to
3.64 billion pounds from 3.99 billion pounds. At the insurance
unit, pretax profit rose to 1.42 billion pounds from 1.33
billion pounds.  The bank in August set aside 3.2 billion pounds to
compensate customers who were mis-sold payment protection
insurance. The insurance of payments on credit cards and
mortgages in case of illness or unemployment, was improperly
sold by the biggest U.K. banks. Clients who bought the policies
rarely compared prices or terms and sometimes were not covered.
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , Britain’s biggest state-owned
lender, yesterday posted a net loss of 2 billion pounds on bad
loan provisions in Ireland and insurance compensation.  Government Funding  Lloyds is also trying to wean itself off inexpensive
government loans and replaces them with wholesale funding. The
lender reduced support from the government and central bank by
73 billion pounds to 24 billion pounds last year. The bank
raised 35 billion pounds of funding last year, about 10 billion
more than initially targeted.  Lloyds has announced about 43,000 jobs in the last three
years and closed overseas units to focus on the U.K. as part of
a plan to cut costs by 1.5 billion pounds. Horta-Osorio said
today that the additional costs cuts won’t lead to extra job
reductions.  The bank said today has made “good progress” on its plan
to sell 632 branches to Co-Operative Bank Plc to comply with
European Union state-aid rules. Lloyds said it expects to
complete the sale by the end of 2013.  Horta-Osorio said in January he’ll spurn his 2011 bonus
given the bank’s full-year loss and his nine-week absence for
exhaustion last year. The bank’s former CEO, Eric Daniels, was
stripped of 40 percent of his bonus last week, losing about
580,000 pounds worth of deferred stock, as he was penalized for
the improper sale of insurance.  Lloyds cut the amount of money it sets aside for employee
bonuses by 30 percent to 375 million pounds. Cash payments will
be capped at 2,000 pounds and above that level will be subject
to deferral and clawback, the bank said.  Finance Director George Culmer joins the bank on May 15,
Chairman Win Bischoff told reporters today. He replaces Tim
Tookey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in  London  at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  