-- Lloyds Says Two-Thirds of Irish Loans May Not Be Repaid in Full
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-02-24T11:55:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/lloyds-says-90-of-irish-commercial-real-estate-loans-impaired.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s
biggest mortgage lender, said two-thirds of its 24.8 billion
pounds ($38.9 billion) of loans in Ireland are unlikely to be
paid back in full following the country’s real-estate crash.  About 16.4 billion pounds of loans to Irish borrowers were
impaired at the end of last year, London-based Lloyds said in a
 statement  today. That’s up from 53 percent at the end of 2010.  Lloyds, which today reported a wider-than-estimated loss of
2.8 billion pounds for 2011, shut its Irish unit in 2010 as
losses soared and is running down its remaining assets. The
worst sector was commercial real estate, where 90 percent of the
bank’s 10.9 billion pounds of loans were impaired at the end of
2011.  “This is by far the most troubled Irish loan book that we
have seen so far” among universal lenders, said Karl Goggin, an
analyst at Dublin-based NCB Stockbrokers. “The level of
provisioning suggests they are kitchen-sinking the loan book as
Lloyds looks to exit Ireland as quickly as possible.”  Ireland’s commercial property prices have tumbled 65
percent since 2007 and  home prices  have almost halved in the
period. Lloyds losses can be traced to Bank of Scotland Plc’s
entry into the country’s mortgage market in 1999, followed two
years later by its purchase of state-owned lender ICC. The bank
offered “substantially lower rates than domestic banks at the
time,” according to an Irish government-commissioned  report  in
April.  Further Declines  New provisions for bad loans in Ireland fell by 25 percent
last year to 3.19 billion pounds, Lloyds said today. In all, the
lender has set aside 10.2 billion pounds to cover loan losses,
equivalent to 62 percent of impaired loans. That’s up from 54
percent at the end of 2010 because of further declines in the
commercial real-estate market during 2011, Lloyds said today.  By comparison,  Bank of Ireland Plc , the country’s largest
lender, said about 17 percent of its Irish loans were impaired
at the end of last year, according to Colm Foley, an analyst at
Dublin-based  Goodbody Stockbrokers . That figure excludes about
10 billion euros ($13.4 billion) of real estate loans the lender
sold to the National Asset Management Agency, Ireland’s so
called bad bank, in the past two years at an average loss of 44
percent.  Anglo Irish Bank Corp., nationalized in 2009, was forced to
take a 62 percent loss on 34 billion euros of loans it sold to
NAMA. The lender, since renamed Irish Bank Resolution Corp.,
said in August that 54.5 percent of its remaining 24.9 billion
euros of loans were impaired at the end of June.  ‘Most Aggressive’  “Lloyds appears to be the most aggressive institution in
crystallizing impairments” in Ireland, said Foley in a note
today. “Whether this is a strategy or a reflection of the
quality of the loan portfolio is unclear.”  Lloyds and fellow British lender  Royal Bank of Scotland
Plc , which bought Dublin-based  Ulster Bank  in 2000, “competed
aggressively” with local banks and introduced products that
“posed new risks for both the borrower and the lender,” the
Irish report said in April.  Lloyds, which received a 20 billion-pound government
bailout in 2008, has transferred management of its Irish
holdings to Certus, a company set up by the bank’s former Irish
management.  Lloyds injected about 8 billion euros of capital into its
Irish unit between late 2008 the end of 2010, when it subsumed
loans made in the country into the London-based parent company.  ‘Least Wise Decisions’  RBS, Britain’s biggest government-owned lender, has pumped
as much as 10 billion pounds into its Irish unit since 2008 to
absorb losses from the country’s real-estate bubble, a spokesman
for the Edinburgh-based lender said yesterday.  “The most money that RBS lost, the least wise decisions
were property lending in the U.K. and Ireland of which Ireland
was the worst of all,” Chief Executive Officer Stephen Hester,
51, said yesterday. RBS has pumped “too much” money into the
unit, he said.  Lloyds’s approach to Ireland, “is a positive development
and suggests that Lloyds is ahead of other banks in recognizing
losses, even though Ireland’s state-guaranteed banks have been
recapitalized to cope with pretty severe losses,” said Goggin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  at   jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  