-- Toyota Tentatively Denied Arbitration for Acceleration Cases
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   B i l l   C a l l a h a n
-- 2012-02-25T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/toyota-loses-bid-to-force-arbitration-in-acceleration-lawsuit.html
A judge ruled tentatively that
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  can’t force named plaintiffs in a purported
class-action lawsuit over alleged losses from unintended sudden
acceleration to arbitrate their claims rather than proceed to
trial.  U.S. District Judge James Selna in  Santa Ana ,  California ,
said in a tentative ruling yesterday that Toyota waived its
right to compel arbitration for 15 of the 20 plaintiffs and
that, for the remaining five, the carmaker wasn’t a party to the
arbitration agreements between the plaintiffs and the Toyota
dealers.  A hearing is scheduled Feb. 27 in federal court in Santa
Ana, where Toyota’s lawyers may try to persuade the judge to
change his decision.  “By failing to assert a right to compel arbitration until
now, Toyota has encouraged plaintiffs to pursue their current
litigation strategy, including pursuing their claims on a class-
wide basis in a federal forum,” Selna said in his tentative
order. “They would be prejudiced if their claims were required
to be submitted to arbitration now.”  Selna has been presiding over the consolidated litigation
since 2010. He has scheduled three trials for next year that
will serve as bellwether cases to be used by the court and
lawyers for both sides to test evidence and liability theories
before moving on to other trials and a decision by Selna as to
whether to approve a class-action status for the plaintiffs.  Arbitration Agreements  Toyota’s request that most of the economic loss cases be
sent to arbitration was based on the automaker’s argument that
customers who bought or leased  Toyota vehicles  involved in the
litigation signed arbitration agreements that waive their rights
to participate in a class-action case.  Celeste Migliore, a spokeswoman for Torrance, California-
based Toyota Motor Sales USA, declined to comment on the
tentative order.  The cases are combined as In re Toyota Motor Corp.
Unintended Acceleration Marketing, Sales Practices and Products
Liability Litigation, 8:10-ml-02151, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  