-- Mozambique Revising Petroleum Law to Include Gas, Bias Says
-- B y   F r e d   K a t e r e r e
-- 2012-02-24T10:56:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/mozambique-revising-petroleum-law-to-include-gas-bias-says-2-.html
Mozambique, home along with Tanzania
and  Kenya  to the biggest natural-gas discoveries in a decade, is
reviewing its Petroleum Act to include liquefied natural gas,
Resources Minister Esperanca Bias said.  The southern African nation, a former Portuguese colony
that started studying changes last year, will hold public
discussions to get input, Bias told reporters today in the
capital, Maputo.  The country, which is also reworking its mining laws, is
one of several resource-rich African nations looking to benefit
from higher commodity prices. Eni SpA and  Anadarko Petroleum
Corp. (APC)  found about $800 billion of gas under the  Indian Ocean  off
Mozambique.  Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s biggest iron-ore exporter, and
 Rio Tinto  Plc have coal assets there.  “We feel that some companies are not fulfilling their
promises on social responsibility,” Bias said.  The mining law proposes future licenses will require that 5
percent to 25 percent of shares in projects be held by locals,
and foreign companies must issue public tenders to domestic
operators to get goods and services, she said. Vale and Rio
Tinto are working with the the government on how they can
include local investors as service providers, she said.  Permits will be issued for 10 years if the law is passed,
and holders have to start output within 48 months of receiving
them, Bias said. Operators stand to lose their licenses if they
cause “serious damage” to the environment. she said.  Tax Changes  Mozambique  is still in the process of determining changes
to the tax rules for mining companies, said Bias.  “We will look at what other countries are charging in the
mining sector,” she said. “We also want to get more input from
the public on tax regimes,” she said, declining to provide
figures.  Vale’s board approved spending $2.07 billion to double
output capacity at its Moatize coal mine in Mozambique to 22
million metric tons, starting in the second half of 2014, and to
invest $4.44 billion in the Nacala Corridor, a railway and
maritime terminal related to the project.  The proposed legislation, which would replace the Mining
Law of 2002, still has to go to the Cabinet before lawmakers
vote on whether to approve the draft, she said.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc,  Europe ’s largest oil company, on
Feb. 22 said it offered to buy African explorer Cove Energy Plc
to gain a foothold in Mozambique. Cove has an 8.5 percent stake
in Rovuma Area 1, which holds 15 trillion to 30 trillion cubic
feet of recoverable gas, enough to justify production of
liquefied natural gas for Asian markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Katerere in Maputo at 
 fkaterere@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  