-- Panasonic Is in Talks for Biggest U.S., Europe Acquisitions in a Decade
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2012-02-24T03:25:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/panasonic-in-talks-for-u-s-europe-solar-deals.html
Panasonic Corp. (6752)  is in talks for
acquisitions in the U.S. and  Europe  and may use its biggest
deals there in a decade to speed a transition from television
maker to supplier of solar energy systems and power storage.  “Acquisitions are in our sight as we need to seek a
different business model in the U.S. and Europe,” Shusaku Nagae, who heads Panasonic’s Eco Solutions Co., said in an
interview in Tokyo yesterday. Deals under consideration may be
worth more than 10 billion yen ($125 million), he said,
declining to elaborate because the discussions are private.  Panasonic,  heading  for a record $10 billion loss this
fiscal year amid plunging TV prices, plans to expand its
business selling bundled solar and power management services to
businesses in the U.S. and Europe, Nagae said. The Osaka-based
company’s  Panasonic Electric Works Co. (6991)  unit paid 172 million
euros ($230 million) for Germany’s Vossloh Elektro GmbH in 2002,
its last acquisition in the U.S. or Europe worth more than 10
billion yen and one of only three in the group’s history,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We plan to start something we have never done before,”
Nagae said. “In those countries, we can’t replicate the roof-
top solar business we do in  Japan .”  Panasonic, Japan’s largest solar panel maker after Sharp
Corp. and Kyocera Corp., generates  more than half  of its revenue
domestically, where it also builds and sells homes with built-in
solar panels and systems to feed the power they generate into
appliances and storage batteries.  Adapting Japan Model  The possible acquisitions in Europe and the U.S. are aimed
at allowing the company to adapt this model to commercial
properties including shopping centers or supermarkets in those
countries, Nagae said.  Germany , the world’s biggest solar power
market,  Italy ,  Spain  are among the regions where demand is high
for energy-saving products, he said.  Rival Sharp, Japan’s biggest solar-panel maker, agreed in
2010 to buy California’s Recurrent Energy for $305 million to
expand into building power plants as it faces more competition
from China-based manufacturers. Owning the San Francisco-based
solar-power developer helps Osaka-based Sharp move further into
the U.S. market for installing photovoltaic panels and building
power plants to sell emissions-free electricity to utilities and
commercial users.  The scale of Panasonic’s potential acquisitions won’t
strain Panasonic’s  cash flow  and credit standing, Nagae said,
declining to elaborate further on funding plans.  Cash Flow  Cash, near cash and short term investments fell to about
712 billion yen as of Dec. 31, from 1.21 trillion yen a year
earlier and about 1.58 trillion yen as of Dec. 31, 2006,
according to data  compiled by Bloomberg .  Standard & Poor’s  lowered Panasonic’s  credit rating  one
level to A- on Feb. 22, the fourth lowest investment grade,
citing the “commoditization of key products and the strong
yen.”  Panasonic targets 1 trillion yen in annual revenue by 2018
for its business that integrates solar panels, battery systems,
power-controlling units, light-emitting diode lamps and other
 appliances  that reduce power consumption.  That compares with about 105 billion yen expected from the
business for the year to March 2013 and 300 billion in 2016,
Nagae said. Total sales at the maker of televisions, digital
video recorders and home appliances will be about 8 trillion yen
next fiscal year, according to the average of 20  analyst
estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  