-- Petrodar of Sudan Says Chemat Is Appointed Acting President After Liu Left
-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 2012-02-24T14:09:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/petrodar-of-sudan-says-chemat-is-appointed-acting-president-after-liu-left.html
Petrodar Operating Co., operator of
an oil pipeline that runs from  South Sudan  through  Sudan  to the
 Red Sea , named Baidzawi Chemat as its acting president after the
southern government expelled his predecessor, Liu Yingcai.  South Sudan’s petroleum minister, Stephen Dhieu Dau,
ordered the Liu’s expulsion on Feb. 20, saying he sided with
Sudan in a dispute over oil and gave “limited cooperation” in
implementing a southern decision to shut down crude output.
Petrodar’s biggest shareholders are  China ’s state-owned  China
National Petroleum Co. (CNPZ)  and Kuala Lumpur-based  Petroliam Nasional
Bhd. (PET)   “There remains significant room for a deterioration of the
position of operating companies given South Sudan’s recent
decision to shut down oil production,” said Jean-Baptiste
Gallopin, a London-based analyst with Control Risks. “The
authorities have long viewed Asian national  oil companies  as
allies of Khartoum.”  South Sudan, which gained control of about 75 percent of
the formerly united Sudan’s 490,000 barrels a day of output at
independence in July, shut down production last month. It took
the action because Sudan loaded 2.6 million barrels of southern
crude onto four ships and diverted about 120,000 barrels to its
refinery through a “tie-in” pipeline it connected to
Petrodar’s pipeline.  President Umar al-Bashir’s government in Khartoum, the
Sudanese capital, said it confiscated the oil to make up for
unpaid fees.  Negotiations Fail  Since South Sudan’s secession, talks have failed to reach
agreement on how much the landlocked south should pay for the
use of a pipeline running across Sudan. Negotiators from the two
countries are scheduled to meet again March 6 in the Ethiopian
capital,  Addis Ababa .  The written order from Dau also accused Petrodar of
“cooperation with Sudan in illegal loading” of South Sudan’s
crude at the Port Sudan export terminal.  Petrodar, in a Feb. 19 statement, said it “issued a
written order to its staff not to comply with the forced
lifting” that was supervised by Sudanese security forces.  The company said it also wrote to the Sudan government
stating its “disagreement” with the government’s construction
of the tie-in pipeline, and said the crude was diverted
“without any involvement of Petrodar staff.”  Dau said Petrodar refused to fully relocate its
headquarters to the South Sudanese capital, Juba, from Khartoum.  The company has also failed to comply with a decree by
South Sudanese President Salva Kiir that the company transfer
the stake in Petrodar held by Sudapet Co., Sudan’s state oil
company, to South Sudan’s Nile Petroleum Corp, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jared Ferrie at 
 jferrie1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  