-- PG&E CEO Says Big Blast Fine Would Threaten Financial Viability
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2012-02-24T05:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/pg-e-ceo-says-big-blast-fine-would-threaten-financial-viability.html
PG&E Corp. (PCG) , owner of  California ’s
largest utility, has told state regulators that a substantial
fine for a 2010 gas pipeline blast in San Bruno, California,
could threaten the financial viability of the company.  “The company does need to be financially viable after we
are finished with all the issues related to San Bruno,” PG&E
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Anthony Earley said
yesterday during an interview at the San Francisco bureau of
Bloomberg News. Regulators “have acknowledged this,” Earley said.  The California Public Utilities Commission is considering
fining PG&E after the commission said in a report last month
that the utility broke state and federal laws before the
explosion. Federal and state investigators have said that PG&E’s
poor management and safety practices led to the blast, which
killed eight people and destroyed 38 homes.  PG&E, which is based in  San Francisco , has set aside $200
million for potential fines, which is the minimum amount it
expects, Earley said. A penalty of $1 billion would be a
“challenge” to the utility and “totally out of proportion to
any fine that has ever been given for airplane crashes or any
disaster,” Earley said. The company would have to sell
additional stock to pay for a fine of that sum, he said.  “I understand it is a tragedy, but right now the size of
the fine isn’t going to change how we are reacting,” Earley
said. “We know we need to change the business and we are doing
everything humanly possible to change the business,” he said.  Protecting the Public  The top priority of the state’s utilities regulators is to
protect the public, said Terrie Prosper, spokeswoman for the
commission, in an e-mailed message.  “Commissioners determine fine amounts in cases before them
after careful consideration of the facts of a case,” Prosper
said. “They don’t determine fine amounts based on what a
utility wants to pay.”  “A fine should be based upon what PG&E did or didn’t do,
not on what they say they can afford or not,” Mark Toney,
executive director of the Utility Reform Network, said in a
telephone interview. “For a fine to have meaning, it would have
to be large enough that is not simply written off as a one-time
incident.”  PG&E plans to spend about $1 billion in gas system upgrades
and safety tests that won’t be recovered in customer bills,
Earley said. The company has also separated its gas business
from its electricity business and brought in new management to
run its gas unit to improve service, he said.  Explosion’s Impact  PG&E could see total costs related to the explosion,
including fines, of as much as $1.7 billion through 2013, Chief
Financial Officer Kent Harvey said on Feb. 16 during an earnings
conference call with investors.  That amount is “basically the whole net worth of our gas
transmission and storage business,” Earley said.  “I know politically there has to be a large fine, but at
some point, people need to step back and say, it doesn’t serve
any purpose,” he said, adding that the company will need to
also pay for massive infrastructure investments.  “I’ve got to go out and sell new stock after this is
over,” Earley said. “And if this company isn’t considered a
good investment in a good regulatory environment, that is going
to be very, very challenging,” he said.  PG&E filed for bankruptcy in 2001 after soaring energy
prices and deregulation of the state’s power market forced it to
reorganize. It emerged from bankruptcy in 2004.  Dividend Frozen  PG&E has frozen its dividend for the second consecutive
year as a result of increasing costs from pipeline safety work.
The company last week raised the 2012 cost estimate for
improvements to its gas pipeline system by 36 percent to a range
of $450 million to $550 million pretax.  Regulators also have to decide this year how much PG&E can
collect from customers to help pay for a  proposed $2.2 billion
gas pipeline improvement plan .  PG&E has proposed that shareholders will absorb $535
million for the project, with rate increases covering the
remainder. Consumer advocacy groups including the San Francisco-
based Utility Reform Network and state lawmakers have said that
regulators should reject the proposal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  