-- Philippine Peso Drops This Week on Costlier Oil; Bonds Decline
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-02-24T08:42:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/philippine-peso-set-for-weekly-drop-as-oil-rises-bonds-decline.html
The Philippine peso slid for a
second week on concern rising energy costs will damp economic
growth. Government bonds declined.  The  Philippines  imports almost all of the oil it uses and
the cost of crude climbed 10 percent since end-January in  New
York , reaching a nine-month high of $108.74 a barrel yesterday.
The central bank signaled this week that it has room to support
economic growth even as oil costs increase.  “If the rise in  oil prices  drags on, it’s not good for
Asian currencies given the region’s high dependence” on energy
imports, said Leong Sook Mei, the Singapore-based regional head
of global currency research at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ.  The peso weakened 0.5 percent this week to 42.825 per
dollar in  Manila , according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The currency
lost 0.1 percent today.  “Our assessment is, under specific stressed oil price
levels, inflation would be elevated but the full-year inflation
average would be within target,” central bank Governor Amando
Tetangco said on Feb. 22. Policy makers are aiming to keep
inflation between 3 percent and 5 percent this year.  Twenty-year  government bonds  dropped this week after the
Bureau of the Treasury allowed yields to rise at an auction to
individual investors on Feb. 21 to spur demand for the debt.  The yield on the government’s 5.875 percent bonds due
February 2032 increased 10 basis points, or 0.10 percentage
point, this week to 5.93 percent, according to noon fixing
prices from the Philippine Dealing & Exchange Corp. The rate
fell nine basis points today.  The government set the yield on 15-year securities at 5.375
percent and that for 20-year bonds at 5.875 percent at the
auction. The Philippines sold a total 163 billion pesos ($3.8
billion) of the notes to individual investors as of late
yesterday, First Metro Investment Corp. President Roberto
Juanchito Dispo, one of the arrangers, said today.  Total sales may approach 200 billion pesos, including
purchases by state-owned companies, Dispo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  