-- Plosser Says Fed MBS Purchases May Be Breach Into Fiscal Policy
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-02-24T18:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/plosser-says-fed-mbs-purchases-may-be-breach-into-fiscal-policy.html
Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank
President  Charles Plosser  said that central bank purchases of
mortgage-backed securities may be an inappropriate foray into
policy that should be conducted by the  U.S. Treasury .  “When the Fed engages in targeted credit programs that
seek to alter the allocation of credit across markets, I believe
it is engaging in fiscal policy and has breached the traditional
boundaries established between the fiscal authorities and the
central bank,” Plosser said according to prepared remarks of a
speech he’s giving in New York today.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and the  Federal
Open Market Committee  are debating a new round of mortgage bond
purchases to help boost the housing market and the economy.  “Central banks and monetary policy are not and cannot be
real solutions to the unsustainable fiscal paths many countries
currently face,” Plosser said on a  panel  at the University of
Chicago’s Booth School of Business 2012 U.S. Monetary Policy
Forum. “The only real answer rests with the fiscal authorities’
ability to develop credible commitments to sustainable fiscal
paths.”  Plosser, the 63-year-old former professor who has led the
Philadelphia Fed since 2006, has said he opposed the  Federal
Open Market Committee’s (FDTR)  January statement that  interest rates 
may need to be kept near zero through at least late 2014,
replacing an earlier pledge to keep borrowing costs low through
mid-2013.  ‘Market Distortions’  “The problem is not just inflation risk down the road,”
Plosser said in a speech last week in Newark,  Delaware .
“Prolonged efforts to hold interest rates near zero can lead to
financial market distortions and the misallocation of
resources.”  Plosser, who doesn’t vote on the FOMC this year, dissented
from the Fed’s decisions in August and September to increase
stimulus, citing higher inflation and lower unemployment in
2011.  Plosser said he was alarmed by growing pressure on central
banks to allocate credit to specific sectors of the economy, to
use its lender of last resort authority and to raise inflation
rates.  “Despite the well-known benefits of maintaining stable
prices, there are calls in both  Europe  and the U.S. to abandon
this commitment and create higher inflation to devalue
outstanding nominal government and private debt,” said Plosser.  ‘Inflation Tax’  “Such an inflation tax would transfer wealth from those
who have lent money, in good faith, to the borrowers,” he said.
“Inflation is a blunt and inappropriate instrument for
assigning winners and losers from profligate fiscal policy or
excessive borrowing by private individuals and firms.”  The Labor Department said that the economy added 243,000
jobs in January and the  unemployment rate  fell to 8.3 percent,
the lowest jobless rate in three years.  Bernanke said in testimony before the Senate Budget
Committee last week that the jobless rate masks weakness in the
labor market. Unemployment doesn’t include people who only have
part-time jobs or who are out of the  labor force  because they
have given up searching for work, Bernanke said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  New York  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  