-- Plosser, Bullard Oppose Further Purcahses of Mortgage Securities by Fed
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-02-25T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/plosser-bullard-oppose-further-purchases-of-mortgage-securities-by-fed.html
Two Federal Reserve officials
opposed additional mortgage-bond purchases by the Fed, saying
the measure isn’t needed and that the U.S. central bank
shouldn’t interfere in credit markets.  James Bullard , president of the Federal Reserve Bank of  St.
Louis , said he doesn’t favor additional debt buying as inflation
risks are “to the upside” and a damaged housing market limits
the effectiveness of monetary policy. Philadelphia Fed President
 Charles Plosser  said targeting a specific industry such as
housing should be left to the  U.S. Treasury .  “I am worried that if you try to push so hard on monetary
policy even when the mechanism isn’t really working, the whole
thing blows up on you,” Bullard, who doesn’t vote on  Federal
Open Market Committee  this year, told reporters after a speech
yesterday in New York. He also said that the FOMC would need to
mark down its economic forecasts to warrant another program of
large-scale asset purchases, known as quantitative easing.  Fed officials are keeping open the option of a third round
of bond purchases in case the economy weakens or inflation stays
low. “A few” members of the FOMC said economic conditions
could warrant buying assets “before long,” and others
indicated that action would become necessary if the “economy
lost momentum” or price gains seemed likely to remain lower
than the Fed’s 2 percent goal, according to minutes of their
Jan. 24-25 meeting released last week.  Wide Span  “The committee is in wait-and-see mode,” said  Dean Maki ,
chief U.S. economist at  Barclays Capital  in New York. “There’s
a wide span between the more hawkish and more dovish views on
the economy, and so the data will determine if there’s QE3. If
the data hold up, as we expect, we would avoid it.”  Economic reports yesterday added to evidence of a
strengthening economy, helping the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
advance to the highest level since June 2008. The  S&P 500  rose
0.2 percent to 1,365.74 at 4 p.m. in New York.  Confidence among U.S. consumers rose more than forecast in
February, reaching a one-year high as Americans grew more upbeat
about the outlook for the economy.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final  index  of
consumer sentiment increased to 75.3 this month from 75 in
January. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey called
for 73, after a preliminary reading of 72.5.  Purchases of new homes declined 0.9 percent in January to a
321,000 annual rate from a 324,000 pace in December that was
stronger than previously reported, Commerce Department figures
showed yesterday. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey
called for 315,000 pace last month.  Mortgage Securities  Fed Bank of San Francisco President John C. Williams said
the central bank’s home-loan security buying has been effective
in bringing down mortgage-bond yields, and that the housing
“bust” is weighing on the  U.S. economy . Monetary stimulus is
warranted to boost growth, he said, without commenting
specifically on prospects for additional stimulus.  “Housing is a major factor in the deep downturn and
sluggish recovery we’ve experienced in recent years,” said
Williams, a voting member on the FOMC this year. “It’s one of
several factors weighing on aggregate spending by consumers,
businesses, and government. An aggregate-demand shortfall is
something monetary policy can be, should be, and is
addressing.”  The policy makers spoke at the University of Chicago Booth
School of Business’s U.S. Monetary Policy Forum.  Plosser repeated his opposition to mortgage-bond buying,
saying it constitutes fiscal policy.  Credit Programs  “When the Fed engages in targeted credit programs that
seek to alter the allocation of credit across markets, I believe
it is engaging in fiscal policy and has breached the traditional
boundaries established between the fiscal authorities and the
central bank,” Plosser said yesterday.  Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  President William C. Dudley, disagreed. Dudley said the Fed “has not engaged in
anything that in my opinion constitutes fiscal action,” and he
didn’t comment on the outlook for additional stimulus.  Dudley, in a speech at the forum, warned that it is
“essential” for the U.S. to aim for fiscal balance as the
government’s borrowing costs will eventually increase as
interest rates rise.  “We are in an unusual period in which net interest expense
is temporarily depressed,” he said. “This will not last and
the fiscal authorities need to factor this in when considering
what needs to be done to put the federal  budget deficit  and the
nation’s debt burden on a sustainable path.”  Dudley repeated last month’s Fed statement that low rates
of resource use and subdued inflation “are likely to warrant
exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate at least
through late 2014.” He is a permanent voting member of the
panel.  Near Zero Rates  Under Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , the Fed has kept  interest
rates  close to zero for more than three years and has bought
$2.3 trillion in two rounds of asset purchases in an effort to
push down long-term interest rates.  Ten-year Treasury notes yielded 1.98 percent yesterday,
down from 3.44 percent a year ago. Two-year notes show that the
government can borrow for that term at around 0.30 percent.  The Fed presidents spoke following the presentation of a
paper by economists  Michael Feroli  of JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
 Ethan Harris  of Bank of America Corp. The paper argued the
collapse of housing and upheaval in the mortgage market was
preventing the central bank’s low interest-rate policies from
being as effective as in normal recoveries.  ‘Partially Clogged’  Williams said one challenge for central bankers is that
“the monetary transmission mechanism is partially clogged,”
making “refinancing and other housing activity less responsive
to changes in interest rates.”  If monetary policy is “less powerful than usual,” that
“suggests we need to move our monetary instruments even more
than usual to achieve our employment and price-stability
objectives,” Williams said.  Bullard disagreed with Williams’ views of how a “clogged”
monetary transmission should affect policy making.  “I would disagree with the idea that, because it’s clogged
up, now you have to push harder,” Bullard told reporters.
“That’s the story of the 1970s” and resulted in prolonged high
inflation and unemployment, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in New York at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  