-- Private Equity Avoids Tax on Stake Sales as Obama Backs Off
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-02-24T19:45:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/private-equity-avoids-tax-rise-on-stake-sales.html
Private equity executives won a
major concession in a battle with the Obama administration over
plans to raise taxes when selling stakes in their firms,
potentially saving billionaires such as  Stephen Schwarzman  and
David Rubenstein hundreds of millions of dollars.  President  Barack Obama  and Representative Sander Levin
separately signaled this month that proposals to raise taxes on
investment performance fees, known as carried interest, won’t
apply to profits earned when buyout fund founders and other
executives sell some or all of their holdings in their firms.
The president and Levin, a Michigan Democrat and the party’s top
member on the House Ways and Means Committee, previously backed
legislation that would have increased rates for carried interest
as well as for the so-called enterprise value.  For founders of private equity firms, hundreds of millions
of dollars are riding on how enterprise value is taxed. The
biggest firms have leaders who are aging and are seeking to sell
through initial public offerings or secondary sales. Others have
privately sold stakes to investors such as public pension funds.  Rubenstein, co-chief executive officer of  Carlyle Group ,
has said one of the reasons he is taking his private equity firm
public is to “liquefy” his stake.  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  co-
founders Schwarzman and  Peter G. Peterson  earned $684 million
and $1.92 billion, respectively, when they sold stakes as part
of the 2007 offering. The two took advantage of rules that allow
corporations to write down the value of goodwill to offset taxes
they paid on the gains.  Potential Compromise  The industry has labeled the increase in the enterprise
value rate as unfair because it singles out private equity
managers, and has used the issue to lobby against proposals to
raise its taxes. Excluding enterprise value could make it easier
for Congress to boost tax rates for carried interest, said Steve
Rosenthal, a Washington-based tax lawyer and fellow at the
Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center.  “Adding an enterprise value provision might be the
concession necessary for all sides to declare victory,”
Rosenthal said.  Industry executives and their lobbyists have been fighting
higher taxes on carried interest since 2007 and began
emphasizing the enterprise value issue since Congress almost
passed an earlier version of Levin’s bill in 2010.  The chances of advancing the proposal in Congress this year
are slim because it faces opposition from Republicans who
control the  House of Representatives . The enterprise value
debate was one of the issues that stalled the carried interest
measure in 2010, Rosenthal said.  Ordinary Income  Under current law, buyout fund managers pay different tax
rates on different types of income. They pay ordinary income
rates of as much as 35 percent on asset-management fees. They
pay capital gains rates of 15 percent on carried interest or
profits-based compensation.  Levin and Obama contend that carried interest should be
taxed like ordinary income, because it is payment for services
rather than a return of capital. They haven’t gotten the
proposal through Congress, even when Democrats controlled the
House of Representatives, the Senate and the White House.  The administration’s fiscal 2013 budget plan and Levin’s
latest bill include language that says owners of private equity
firms should be treated the same as other taxpayers who start
and later sell stakes in their business. Earlier versions of the
plans singled out investment managers, subjecting them to a
regular income  tax rate  on profits from stake sales while
taxpayers who sold other kinds of businesses could still pay the
more favorable capital gains rate.  ‘Consistent’ Treatment  Levin has said the feature would provide a backstop should
private equity owners try to skirt higher taxes by selling
stakes in their firms.  “While the legislation seeks to tax all income earned for
managing other people’s money at the same ordinary tax rates
paid by all other Americans, it also aims to treat investment
managers in a manner consistent with other taxpayers who start
and eventually sell a business,” Levin said in a statement.  The administration “remains committed” to working with
Congress on the enterprise value issue, the Treasury Department
wrote in its explanation of revenue proposals that was released
Feb. 13. The goal should be “more consistent treatment with the
sales of other types of businesses.”  The industry’s main advocacy group said the new
developments don’t go far enough.  Multiple Attempts  “There have been multiple attempts to address the
enterprise value provision within a series of carried interest
tax increase proposals,”  Steve Judge , president of the
Washington-based Private Equity Growth Capital Council, said in
a statement. “To date no legislation has been introduced that
effectively eliminates a punitive tax increase singling out only
private equity,  venture capital  and real estate partnerships.”  Levin has been trying to increase taxes on buyout firms’
carried interest since 2007. Since then, the president has
included similar language in his jobs plan as well as his budget
and the administration has repeatedly used it as part of an
argument for what it calls tax fairness.  Carried interest’s tax treatment has drawn more attention
because of Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney ’s
former career as a buyout executive. Romney co-founded private
equity firm Bain Capital LLC in 1984, and even after retiring
from the Boston-based firm in 1999, he still receives carried
interest from various Bain funds as part of an exit package. The
carried interest tax breaks helped drive his 2010 effective tax
rate to below 14 percent.  In a Feb. 22 conference call with reporters, Romney
economic adviser  Glenn Hubbard  said as part of a tax overhaul if
Romney is elected president, Romney would ask his Treasury
secretary to “reconsider and study” the issue.  ‘Simply Bad Policy’  Jay Carney , the White House spokesman, said Feb. 22 that
the current carried interest rule is “bad policy” that must be
changed.  “It’s simply not equitable if a hedge fund manager or a
private equity executive pays tax on his or her income at a rate
of 15 percent when average folks are paying much more,” he
said.  The industry’s advocacy group, backed by firms including
Blackstone, Carlyle and  KKR (KKR)  & Co., called the potential tax
increase “discriminatory and inequitable” because it would
target private equity specifically and not other kinds of
partnerships. The firms have backed a multimillion-dollar
lobbying effort to kill the increases, with Blackstone alone
spending $5 million in 2011 petitioning Congress on issues
including the tax treatment of carried interest.  The Obama administration added the language on the sale of
businesses in its fiscal 2013 budget proposal because it thinks
it is possible to enact carried interest legislation, said a
Treasury official speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss
the administration’s rationale. The change, the official said,
signals the administration’s willingness to work out the issue.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Edelman at 
 ledelman3@bloomberg.net  