-- Proview Sues Apple in California as IPad Trademark Fight Moves to U.S.
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-02-24T10:48:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/proview-sues-apple-in-santa-clara-taking-ipad-trademark-fight-to-u-s-.html
Proview International Holdings Ltd. (334) ,
seeking to block shipments of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad tablet computer
in and out of China, separately asked a court in  California  to
stop the U.S. company from using IPAD trademarks.  A December 2009 agreement in which a Proview unit agreed to
sell IPAD trademarks to Apple’s IP Application Development Ltd.
should be canceled, Proview said in a Feb. 17 filing to the
California Superior Court in  Santa Clara . IP Application made
“false” statements to Proview in correspondence before the
agreement, the filing said.  Apple acquired Proview’s worldwide rights to the iPad
trademark in 10 countries, including China, the Cupertino,
California-based company said Feb. 14. Proview is refusing to
honor an agreement with Apple in  China , Apple said. Carolyn Wu,
a Beijing-based spokeswoman at Apple, declined to comment on
Proview’s U.S. lawsuit beyond the statement last week.  Graham Robinson, an agent for IP Application, used the name
Jonathan Hargreaves in correspondence with Proview before the
Dec. 23, 2009 agreement to acquire all of Proview’s IPAD-related
trademarks for 35,000 pounds ($55,267), the court filing said.  “This statement was false and untrue,” according to the
filing. Proview is seeking unspecified damages from Apple,
according to the document.  Proview applied to China’s Customs Bureau to block exports
as well as imports of the iPad tablet computer, Roger Xie, a
lawyer for Proview, said last week.  A court in  Shanghai ’s Pudong district yesterday rejected
Proview’s application for an injunction against sales of the
iPad tablet in the city, Xie said yesterday.  The iPad tablet was introduced by Apple in 2010 and is now
the second-biggest revenue generator for the company, the
world’s biggest by market capitalization.  Proview shares have been suspended from trading in Hong
Kong since Aug. 2, 2010, and reported a HK$2.91 billion ($375
million) loss in 2009. The company last published its  results  in
March 2010.  The case is Proview Electronics Co. v. Apple Inc. and IP
Application Development, 12-cv-219219, California Superior
Court, Santa Clara County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Lee in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  