-- PTT Exploration Offers $1.7 Billion for Cove Energy, Topping Shell’s Offer
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-02-24T17:14:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/ptt-exploration-offers-1-7-billion-for-cove-energy-topping-shell-s-offer.html
PTT Exploration & Production Pcl (PTTEP) ,
Thailand’s only listed oil and gas company, offered 1.1 billion
pounds ($1.7 billion) for Cove Energy Plc, trumping an earlier
bid for the African explorer by  Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)   PTT Exploration offered 220 pence for each Cove share, 13
percent more than Shell’s proposal, according to a statement
today. Cove surged 21 percent to 235 pence in London trading,
indicating investors are betting on further bids.  “We think Shell is the  Mozambique  government’s preferred
bidder and will likely raise its offer to 240 pence” a share,
said Stuart Joyner, an analyst at Investec Securities in London.  Cove holds 8.5 percent of a block off Mozambique where
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  has found as much as 30 trillion cubic
feet of gas. That would be enough to justify production of
liquefied natural gas to supply Asian markets.  Cove (COV)  said in a
separate statement the formal sale process for the company will
continue and it reserves the right to reject any approach.  Earlier this week, Shell bid $1.6 billion to buy Cove to
gain a foothold in Mozambique. Jon French, a London-based
spokesman for Shell, declined to comment today when asked
whether the company would be prepared to raise its offer.  PTT Exploration’s bid values Cove at $4.6 per barrel of oil
equivalent of resource and “is already hot in my view,” said
 Jason Kenney , an analyst at Banco Santander SA in Edinburgh.
“I’d be surprised if a Western oil major would pay above this
level as it looks expensive. Never say never though.”  Afren, Ophir  After the Thai offer, other African explorers also gained,
with Ophir Energy Plc up 14 percent and  Afren Plc (AFR)  4.5 percent.  East Africa’s fields offer a fresh source of gas supply for
 Asia , where China and  India  are the world’s fastest-growing
major economies.  Eni SpA (ENI)  of  Italy ,  BG Group Plc (BG/)  of the U.K. and
Statoil ASA of Norway also discovered natural gas off Mozambique
and Tanzania. Statoil’s Executive Vice President for Exploration
Tim Dodson today declined to say whether Norway’s largest oil
company would be interested in joining the race for Cove.  Cove has been working with  Total SA (FP)  and BG to explore off
the coast of  Kenya . Last year, it joined  Cairn Energy Plc (CNE)  to bid
for exploration licenses off Lebanon.  Standard Chartered Bank is advising Cove, which put itself
up for sale last month. UBS AG is advising PTT Exploration.  The transaction depends on approval from the Mozambique
government. The Thai government supports PTT Exploration’s bid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in  London  at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  