-- Putin Says Iran Developing Nuclear Capability Would Risk Global Stability
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2012-02-24T17:47:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/putin-nuclear-iran-would-risk-global-stability.html
Russia  opposes  Iran  developing
nuclear-weapons capability because it would endanger global
stability, Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  said.  Russia is against expanding “the nuclear club” and “is
taking into account” objections by Arab nations to supplies of
conventional weaponry to Iran, according to Putin, who’s seeking
to return as Russia’s president in March 4 elections.  “We’re not interested in Iran becoming a nuclear power,”
he said today in the town of Sarov, 530 kilometers (331 miles)
east of Moscow, where the  Soviet Union  developed its first
atomic weapon. “It would lead to greater risks to international
stability.”  The U.S. and its European allies accuse Iran of seeking
atomic weapons while the Persian Gulf nation’s leaders say they
only want energy and industrial applications from nuclear
technology. Iran “dismissed”  United Nations  atomic inspectors’
concerns over possible nuclear-weapons work and tripled its
quarterly rate of producing 20 percent-enriched uranium, the
 International Atomic Energy Agency  said today in an 11-page
restricted document obtained by Bloomberg News.  ‘More Alarming’  The progress made by  Iran’s nuclear program  is “more
alarming for Russia than for many other countries,” Deputy
Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov said in comments published Feb.
15 on the ministry’s website.  Even so, Russia sees no evidence that the Persian Gulf
state is developing nuclear-weapons capability, Ryabkov said. It
won’t back sanctions that seek regime change in Iran and favors
a negotiated settlement, he added.  The West is seeking to bring about regime change in Iran
under the guise of stamping out its nuclear-arms ambitions,
Putin said today.  Separately, he accused the U.S. of “shying away” from
negotiations over its planned missile-defense system, parts of
which may be stationed in eastern  Europe .  “They don’t want to talk to us seriously,” Putin said.
“They’re shying away.”  Russia will have to develop an asymmetric response to
counter the U.S. system in Europe to maintain the balance of
power, Putin told a meeting with military commanders in southern
Russia, according to a copy of his speech posted yesterday on
the government’s website.  “The anti-ballistic missile treaty on one hand and the
restriction of offensive weapons act on the other hand created
this balance, which was particularly shaped in the international
legal form,” Putin said. “Americans demolished one of these
walls. What should we do? We have to either create our own
missile defense or give some kind of asymmetric answer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  