-- Rand Strengthens to 2-Week High as Bonds Gain on Improved Export Prospects
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-02-24T12:59:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/rand-set-for-2nd-weekly-advance-as-economic-data-boosts-export-prospects.html
The rand advanced to a two-week
high, headed for a second five-day gain, and bonds rose amid
signs the global economy is recovering, boosting prospects for
 South Africa ’s exports.  South  Africa ’s currency appreciated as much as 1 percent to
7.5815 per dollar, the strongest since Feb. 10. It traded at
7.5831 as of 2 p.m. in Johannesburg, bringing its advance this
week to 2.1 percent. The yield on the nation’s 6.75 percent
bonds due 2021 declined 4 basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 7.84 percent, paring a 4 basis point rise this week.  Gross domestic product in Germany grew 1.5 percent in the
fourth quarter from a year earlier, in line with economists’
expectations, the Federal Statistics Office said today. U.S.
jobless claims held at a four-year low and a gauge of German
business sentiment exceeded forecasts, reports showed yesterday.
 Germany  and the U.S. together buy 14 percent of South Africa’s
exports, according to government data for 2011.  “Global markets are performing a little better spurred by
good German business confidence figures and data that shows the
U.S. jobs environment remains strong,”  John Cairns  and Josina Solomons, currency strategists at Rand Merchant bank in
Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments. “The ground is now
open for further rand gains.”  An  index  of commodity prices rose to an eight-month high
and global emerging-market stocks  gained  today. Raw materials
account for 64 percent of the country’s exports, according to
government data. South Africa has the world’s biggest reserves
of platinum, manganese and chrome.  The nation’s gross domestic product grew an annual 2.9
percent in the fourth quarter, compared with growth of 1.4
percent in the previous three months, a report on Feb. 28 will
show, according to the median estimate of six economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  Bond Risk  Credit default swaps for South Africa’s dollar-denominated
sovereign bonds fell 6.8 basis points this week to 165.6 basis
points today, the lowest since Oct. 28, according to data
compiled by CMA, a unit of CME Group Inc. The contracts, which
drop as perceptions of creditworthiness improve, traded below
default swaps from higher-rated  France  and  Israel  at 190.3 and
188.1, respectively.  Bonds gained as investors bet the stronger rand will reduce
the cost of imports, outweighing rising oil prices and curbing
inflation in Africa’s biggest economy. Crude oil rose for a
seventh day on concern escalating tension with  Iran  threatens
supplies.  “The impact of a stronger rand in early 2012 has helped to
offset some of the imported price pressures,”  George Glynos , an
economist at ETM Analytics in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed
comments. “Expect a similar trend to hold in months ahead.”  Inflation  South Africa’s consumer inflation rate  rose  to 6.3 percent
in January, remaining outside the central bank’s target range
for a third month and adding to pressure on Governor  Gill Marcus 
to raise  interest rates .  The central bank has left its benchmark repo rate at a 30-
year low of 5.5 percent for 18 months to boost growth. The bank
aims to keep inflation between 3 percent and 6 percent.  The nation’s $1.5 billion of 4.665 percent notes due 2024
gained, driving the yield down 1.5 basis points to 4.285
percent. The extra yield investors demand to hold the debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries of similar maturity narrowed 1.5
basis points to 2.24 percentage points today. The spread has
widened four basis points this week.  Forward-rate agreements starting in November, after the
Monetary Policy Committee’s last meeting for 2011, rose 11 basis
points to 5.92 percent this week, the highest since August,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  