-- RBA’s Stevens Says Currency’s Recent Strength Is ‘a Bit Odd’
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-02-24T00:05:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/rba-s-stevens-says-currency-s-recent-strength-is-a-bit-odd-.html
Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor
 Glenn Stevens  said the strength of the nation’s currency at a
time when the terms of trade are coming down is “a bit odd.”
Stevens made the comments during semi-annual testimony in Sydney
to the  House of Representatives  Standing Committee on Economics.
He was asked about the local dollar’s rise and about moves such
as those by  Switzerland  to limit its currency’s recent advance.  “Well Switzerland actually did a lot of intervention a
couple of years ago, which I think you would have to conclude
was not all that effective at that time. What they’ve done
recently is to announce they’ll defend a cap on the swiss franc
relative to the euro at a level which is very, very high by
historical standards, so they’ve let it move a huge distance.
Switzerland is a country experiencing deflation in consumer
prices, so you know the  exchange rate  forces acting there are
more powerful I would say than what we faced. So far that cap
has held credibly.  ‘‘I’m not attracted to attempting to do that at the moment
because I’m not sure it would be effective. We haven’t done any
intervention to try to hold the Australian dollar down, I’m not
saying we never would, we have been known to intervene on both
sides, but we certainly don’t foreshadow it. So I’m not saying
we would never do it but we have not done so to date. But we do
continue to ask ourselves whether what’s happening in the
currency makes sense and I would observe I suppose that the most
recent bout of strength is happening at a time when the terms of
trade have actually peaked and started to come down. That is a
bit odd, but we’ll see what happens.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  