-- Threadneedle to Review Risk Controls After Fraud Attempt
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-02-24T19:04:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/threadneedle-to-review-risk-controls-after-fraud-attempt-1-.html
The U.K. finance regulator has asked
Threadneedle, the London-based investment unit of  Ameriprise
Financial Inc. (AMP) , to review its systems and controls after a $150
million trading fraud was attempted.  The Financial Services Authority asked the firm to review
the effectiveness of its compliance system. Threadneedle isn’t
under investigation, Christopher Hamilton, a spokesman for the
regulator, said today.  Threadneedle said this week that it blocked a “suspicious
attempted trade” in August 2011. The firm reported the matter
to the  City of London  Police and dismissed the trader,
spokeswoman  Alison Jefferis  said.  The trader is Vladimir Gersamia, according to a person
familiar with the investigation. Gersamia, who formerly helped
manage about $2 billion in emerging-market debt at Threadneedle,
didn’t respond to calls to his mobile phone. He left the firm in
September, according to the FSA’s register.  London  police arrested a 32-year-old man as part of the
investigation in October and a criminal investigation into “a
suspected $150 million trading fraud” is pending, police said.
The man arrested was George Urumov, formerly the London-based
global head of fixed income at  Otkritie Financial Corp ., a
brokerage part-owned by  Russia ’s VTB Group, another person
familiar with the matter said. Urumov declined to comment.  Threadneedle said the attempted trade was stopped by its
systems and there was no loss to its clients.  Otkritie spokesman Alexey Karakhan didn’t immediately
respond to a phone call and e-mail seeking comment. The
Financial Times previously reported the identities of the men.  Argentine Warrants  Urumov is accused of defrauding Otkritie of $160 million
through offshore transactions involving Argentine warrants, and
for embezzling $23 million in bonuses meant for subordinates,
according to court documents and lawyers in a London civil
lawsuit.  In December, Urumov petitioned a London court successfully
to unfreeze some of his assets to pay his legal fees and finish
renovations on his home. The judge granted the release of
162,000 pounds ($257,000) from a Swiss bank and 200,000 pounds
of other assets.  Urumov told Otkritie when he joined the bank in January
2011 that he would bring four colleagues with him from  Knight
Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  if they each received $5 million in “golden
hellos,” the brokerage said in a civil lawsuit filed in London
on Oct. 6. Instead, Urumov arranged for three payments, of
$500,000, $750,000 and $1 million, and kept the remainder of the
$25 million, according to the filing, the brokerage said.  While at  Knight Capital , Urumov “built a successful
franchise in less than 18 months, trading in excess of $100
billion of bonds,” Otkritie  said  in a statement announcing the
hiring of Urumov and his team on Jan. 17.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Gilbert at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  