-- Treasury 10-Year Yields Trade at Almost 1-Week Low on Fed Buys, Oil Prices
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-02-24T22:10:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/treasuries-snap-gain-on-speculation-report-will-show-higher-new-home-sales.html
Treasury 10-year note yields reached
a one-week low as the  Federal Reserve  bought $1.93 billion in
longer-term securities and on concern a rise in oil may threaten
economic growth.  The yield on the benchmark security had the first weekly
drop in four weeks. The  difference  between the yields on 10-year
notes and inflation indexed securities was close to the highest
since August as a Commerce Department report show purchases of
new U.S. homes declined in January while exceeding the forecast
level. Oil climbed for a seventh day in the longest streak of
advances since January 2010.  “The bond market is sniffing out what’s happening with oil
and saying that if it happens, there may be a bit of a
slowdown,” said  Dan Greenhaus , chief global strategist at BTIG
LLC in New York. “The  bond market  is in a cautious mode.”  Yields on 10-year notes fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 1.98 percent at 4:59 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent
securities maturing in February 2022 increased 6/32, or $1.88
per $1,000 face amount to 100 7/32.  The yield reached 1.97
percent, the least since Feb. 16. It’s down two basis points for
the week.  Trading Range  Ten-year Treasury yields have been in a range of 1.79
percent to 2.16 percent since the start of November as Europe’s
debt crisis sustained demand for the safest securities.  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of expectations for
consumer prices during the life of the debt known as the break-
even rate, widened to as much as 2.31 percentage points, close
to the most since August. It has averaged 2.14 percentage points
during the past decade.  Any rise in Treasury yields may be limited as the next
round of Treasury note and bond supply will be on three
consecutive days beginning March 12 when the government will
sell three-, 10- and 30-year debt. The U.S. will announce the
amounts on March 8.  The central bank purchased securities maturing from
February 2036 to August 2041 today, according to the  New York 
Fed  website . The Fed is replacing $400 billion of shorter-
maturity Treasuries in its holdings with longer-term debt to cap
borrowing costs under a program it plans to conclude in June.  Fed View  Fed Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said
additional asset purchases, or quantitative easing, aren’t
needed with inflation including food and fuel higher than the
central bank’s 2 percent target.  “I wouldn’t take QE3 off the table ever,” Bullard said in
a CNBC interview, referring to a third round of purchases. “We
should use it only if the economy deteriorates and especially if
the inflation numbers start to drift down into disinflation or
deflation. Headline inflation is above target.”  “Bullard said he wouldn’t take QE3 off the table so that
brought in some buying into the market,” said Jason Rogan,
director of U.S. government trading at Guggenheim Partners LLC,
a New York-based brokerage for institutional investors.  Oil Futures rose to a nine-month high as sanctions against
the Persian Gulf nation make it more difficult for  Iran  to sell
crude. Crude rose 0.6 percent to $108.44 a barrel on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange .  Trading Data  Volume (ICPTVOL)  in the Treasury market yesterday remained below the
one-year average of $275 billion. About $256 billion of
Treasuries changed hands through ICAP Plc, the world’s largest
interdealer broker.  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators increased
their net-short position in 10-year note futures in the week
ending Feb. 21, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data.  Speculative short positions, or bets prices will fall,
outnumbered long positions by 65,285 contracts on the Chicago
Board of Trade. Net-short positions rose by 20,885 contracts, or
47 percent, from a week earlier, the Washington-based commission
said in its Commitments of Traders report.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index, which measures
price swings based on options, closed yesterday at 79 basis
points, near the lowest level since July 2007. The five-year
average is 112 basis points.  Sovereign Woes  U.S., Chinese and Japanese officials say they will press
euro-area countries to do more to merit outside help when Group
of 20 finance ministers and central bank governors gather in
Mexico City tomorrow for a meeting dominated by  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt woes, days after  Greece  secured a second bailout.  Greece’s debt restructuring may trigger credit-default
swaps insuring $3.2 billion of bonds if the government uses
clauses designed to mop up investors unwilling to take part.  Greece published the formal offer document today for its
agreement to exchange bonds for new securities, with investors
taking a haircut of 53.5 percent. The restructuring uses so-
called collective action clauses to discourage holdouts, the use
of which would trigger credit-default swap insurance contracts
on the nation’s debt, according to the rules of the
International Swaps & Derivatives Association.  Treasuries rose yesterday after a U.S. sale of $29 billion
in seven-year notes drew stronger-than-average demand on concern
Europe’s debt crisis hasn’t been contained.  The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing
orders to buy with the amount of securities offered, was 3.11,
compared with an average of 2.81 for the previous 10 sales. The
auction was the last of three note offerings this week totaling
$99 billion.  A $35 billion U.S. five-year auction Feb. 22 drew a yield
of 0.9 percent, compared with a forecast of 0.901 percent in a
Bloomberg survey of seven primary dealers, while a two-year note
auction the previous day drew a yield of 0.310 percent, matching
pre-auction trading.  New home sales , tabulated when contracts are signed, fell
0.9 percent to a 321,000 annual pace from a 324,000 rate in
December that was stronger than previously reported, figures
from the Commerce Department showed today in  Washington . The
median estimate of 77 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
called for a rise to 315,000. The number of homes for sale
dropped to a record low.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  