-- Red Card for Carlos Slim as Mexico’s Billionaires Vie to Rule the Airwaves
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-02-24T15:16:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/red-card-for-slim-as-mexico-s-billionaires-vie-to-rule-airwaves.html
Billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s online
news service has been banned from covering the Mexican soccer
team owned by Grupo Televisa SAB, his opponent in a
telecommunications rivalry.  Uno TV Noticias, founded in 2008 by Slim’s Telefonos de
 Mexico  SAB, was told this week it can no longer access the
facilities of Club America, the news outlet said on its  website .
The team’s press office told the agency the ban was a
“corporate matter,” according to Uno TV’s report.  Slim and Televisa -- the nation’s largest broadcaster,
controlled by billionaire Emilio Azcarraga -- are butting heads
as the television and telecommunications industries collide.
Televisa’s cable units are offering phone and Internet service,
competing with Telmex, controlled by Slim’s  America Movil SAB. (AMXL)   Officials for Telmex and Televisa, who can’t be named under
their companies’ policies, declined to comment. Phone messages
left at America’s press office weren’t returned.  The companies controlled by Slim pulled advertising from
Televisa and TV Azteca SAB’s broadcast networks last year, and
the companies filed complaints against each other before
Mexico’s antitrust agency.  In April, Televisa announced an agreement to buy a $1.6
billion stake in Grupo Iusacell SA, entering the mobile-phone
business in competition with America Movil. Mexico’s antitrust
agency blocked that deal last month, a decision Televisa plans
to appeal.  TV Azteca asked Mexico’s phone regulator in October to
determine whether Telmex has the right to offer online video
transmissions, since its telecommunications license prevents
Slim’s company from using its networks to offer TV service.
Azcarraga has also called for regulatory scrutiny of Slim’s
broadcasts.  America, one of three Mexican professional teams owned by
Televisa, is the nation’s favorite soccer club, supported by 23
percent of fans, according to a  report  this month from polling
firm Consulta Mitofsky. It’s also the most hated team for 44
percent of fans, the poll found.  Televisa was little changed at 52.97 pesos at 8:46 a.m. in
Mexico City.  America Movil  was unchanged at 15.31 pesos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  