-- Republicans Said to Consider Dropping Transit Funding-Cut Plan
-- B y   L i s a   C a r u s o
-- 2012-02-24T00:49:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/republicans-said-to-consider-dropping-transit-funding-cut-plan.html
Republican leaders in the U.S. House
of Representatives may reinstate guaranteed funding for mass-
transit projects after a bill that dropped it drew opposition
from party members, a senior House official said.  They are also considering shortening the duration of the
bill and cutting planned spending on highway, bridge and transit
projects, said the official, who declined to be identified
because the talks aren’t public.  The current House proposal calls for spending $260 billion
on those projects over five years. The new plan would be
attached to the bill that the House passed last week to devote
revenue from expanded oil and gas drilling to transportation
improvements, the official said.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, put off
House debate on the surface-transportation bill last week as
some Republicans called it too expensive and others opposed the
ending guaranteed funding for mass transit. Business groups led
by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the largest business lobby, and
transit advocates represented by the American Public
Transportation Association also spoke out against the transit
proposal.  A call to Boehner’s office after regular business hours
today wasn’t immediately returned.  Congress is facing a March 31 deadline to extend surface
transportation funding. Authorization for the last multiyear
bill ran out in 2009, and programs have since operated on a
series of short-term extensions.  The U.S. Highway Trust Fund pays for programs outlined in
surface-transportation legislation with money from a 18.4-cent
gasoline tax. It may not be able to meet its obligations as
early as October, according to the nonpartisan  Congressional
Budget Office . Revenue is declining as Americans drive more
fuel-efficient cars and drive less because of higher gas prices,
according to the Department of Transportation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Caruso in Washington at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  