-- Revenue Eases Recession’s Budget Pain as U.S. Governors Gather
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-02-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/revenue-eases-recession-s-budget-pain-as-u-s-governors-gather.html
For the past four years, U.S. states
struggled to close more than $500 billion of budget shortfalls
caused by the recession, ushering in tax increases, spending
cuts and clashes with public-employee unions.  With the economy recovering, officials gathering in
Washington today for the National Governors Association winter
meeting are beginning to face a welcome choice: how to spend
extra money.  Michigan (STOMI1)  Governor  Rick Snyder , whose state is rebounding
with the automobile industry, may use a possible $670 million
surplus to hire state troopers whose ranks thinned during the
past decade. Colorado may set more aside for education.  New
Jersey ’s  Chris Christie  is seeking to cut taxes and bolster an
underfunded pension.  “After an extremely difficult period when revenues were
crashing and a series of cuts had to be made quickly, state
budgets are stabilizing,”  Scott Pattison , the executive
director of the National Association of State Budget Officers in
Washington, said in a telephone interview. “In some cases
you’re beginning to see improvement in revenues coming in ahead
of forecasts.”  State tax revenue has been rising at the fastest pace since
2006, before the housing-market collapse, U.S. Census figures
show. In the three months through September, the first quarter
in most states’ fiscal years, such collections rose 5.6 percent
from a year earlier, the seventh-straight gain. That outpaces
the 1.6 percent revenue growth states assumed when drafting
their budget plans, according to a Nov. 28  report  by the NGA and
the  National Association of State Budget Officers .  ‘Fairly Optimistic’  Fiscal officers in 27 states and  Puerto Rico  think revenue
is “stable” and should meet fiscal 2012 estimates, according
to a survey in October and November by the  National Conference
of State Legislatures .  Officials in 16 states said they were “concerned” about
meeting projections, while seven states are “optimistic”
because collections exceed projections, according to the report.  “I’m fairly optimistic for the spring tax collection
period, barring something unforeseen,” said Pattison. “There’s
continued, gradual improvement.”  The three-day NGA event starts today and features a
governors-only meeting with President  Barack Obama  at the White
House on Monday and a black-tie dinner with the president and
 Michelle Obama  on Feb. 26. There will be private meetings among
governors and their staffs and public-policy sessions including
tomorrow’s opening panel: “Growing State Economies.”  Lurking Stress  In  Michigan , where the  unemployment rate  dropped to 9.3
percent in December from a high of 14.1 percent in August 2009,
the state ranked second for economic health from 2010’s third
quarter through the same period of 2011, according to the
Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States. It trailed only oil-
booming  North Dakota (STOND1) .  Still, states’ tax collections have yet to fully rebound to
2008 prerecession levels, and budgets in more than half are
smaller than in 2008, according to the November report by the
Governors Association and budget officers.  Unemployment remains “stubbornly high,” 8.3 percent
nationwide in January, and there are uncertainties about whether
the European debt crisis and efforts to reduce the federal
deficit will stall recoveries, the NCSL report said.  “State policy makers have good reason to feel optimistic
about the recent and positive economic news,” said Kil Huh, who
follows budgets for the Pew Center on the States. “But when it
comes to budget matters, there may be reasons to hedge. There’s
stress still lurking in state budgets.”  Climbing and Plunging  Ohio (STOOH1)  Governor  John Kasich , a Republican, said that with the
exception of $2 million he promised to children’s hospitals for
research, he doesn’t plan to increase spending this year. Tax
receipts for fiscal 2012 are running $147.1 million ahead of
projections, according to the state Office of Budget and
Management.  “This economy is still a roller coaster,” Kasich told
reporters in Columbus yesterday. “We’re not going to be in the
business of spending money.”  The increase in collections hasn’t lifted all states from
their troubles.  Illinois (STOIL1)  Democratic Governor  Pat Quinn , who
passed a record tax increase last year, this week proposed
increasing spending by $800 million, including a 1 percent jump
for schools. With a $9 billion backlog of unpaid bills, he still
proposed a $2.7 billion cut to Medicaid.  In  California (STOCA1) , Democratic Governor  Jerry Brown  is counting
on a tax increase next year to forestall cutting $4.8 billion
from planned spending for schools.  Rocky Mountain Higher  Even so, any revenue increase is a welcome shift. When
Michigan’s Snyder took over last year, his first budget
contended with a $1.5 billion deficit. The state is now looking
at a surplus.  In  New Jersey (STONJ1) , Christie proposed a $32.1 billion budget on
Feb. 21 that would cut income taxes 10 percent and raise
spending $2.4 billion over the budget he signed in June. The
governor’s budget would more than double to $1.1 billion the
state’s pension payment and increase school aid by $213 million.  Colorado (STOCO1)  Governor John Hickenlooper has recommended
restoring previously proposed cuts over two years that include
$97 million for primary and secondary education and $30 million 
for college financial aid.  “We are able to recommend all of this because the economy
has shown welcome improvement,” Hickenlooper said in a press
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in  Washington  at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Niquette in Columbus  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  