-- Romney Tax Cut Proposal Relies on Rapid Growth Paired With Missing Details
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-02-24T19:02:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/romney-tax-cut-proposal-relies-on-rapid-growth-paired-with-missing-details.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney ’s plan to cut income tax rates by 20 percent without
increasing the  U.S. budget deficit  relies on unspecified
assumptions about economic growth and unannounced details about
the tax breaks he would curtail.  The details that Romney hasn’t released will matter as he
seeks to claim the mantle of fiscal responsibility while cutting
taxes by more than $4 trillion over the next decade.  Specific proposals for curbing breaks can hurt the
taxpayers who rely on them. Spending cuts can affect core
government services. Relying on growth caused by tax cuts is an
uncertain strategy that government scorekeepers don’t employ.  “Everyone would agree that cutting rates and getting rid
of some preferences would increase economic growth,” said
 Roberton Williams , a senior fellow at the  Tax Policy Center , a
nonpartisan research organization in Washington. “We’d recoup
some of the revenues. But how much? How quickly? Would it
last?”  Foregone Revenue  The former Massachusetts governor’s tax proposals could
cost the Treasury about $4 trillion to $6.2 trillion in forgone
revenue over the next decade, compared with extending tax rates
that expire at the end of 2012. The lower estimate is based on
figures from the bipartisan Committee for a Responsible Federal
Budget and the higher figure comes from the Center for American
Progress, a Washington group often aligned with Democrats.  Romney announced his revised tax plan on Feb. 22 amid
criticism from fellow Republicans that he wasn’t being bold
enough in proposing to overhaul the  tax code .  “What workers in  Michigan  and around the country really
want is a good job and rising wages,” he said today at the
Detroit Economic Club, four days before the Michigan Republican
primary. “Reforming the tax code is one of the surest and
quickest ways to achieve that goal.”  He provided no new details on his tax plan in the speech.  Romney says he wants to extend all of the expiring tax
cuts, and reduce individual income tax rates 20 percent beyond
that, putting the top rate at 28 percent and the bottom rate at
8 percent, down from 35 percent and 10 percent today.  His plan would retain the 15 percent top rates for  capital
gains  and dividends while eliminating taxes on investment income
for those making less than $200,000 a year. It would repeal
investment taxes and other levies in the 2010 health-care law.  Estate Tax Repeal  The estate tax would be repealed, along with the
alternative minimum tax, a parallel tax system designed to
prevent high-income taxpayers from legally avoiding taxes.  For businesses, Romney would drop the corporate tax rate to
25 percent from 35 percent and make permanent the research and
development tax credit.  “He has identified all of the things that would cut taxes
and none of the things that would raise taxes,” said Michael Linden, director of tax and budget policy at the Center for
American Progress.  Romney has called for spending cuts that would reach $500
billion a year by 2016. Also, he is proposing longer-term
changes to limit Social Security and Medicare spending.  In the Feb. 22 announcement, Romney’s campaign said the
plan would broaden the nation’s individual tax base by limiting
deductions, exemptions and credits, particularly for high-income
taxpayers. It also said the corporate tax base would be
broadened.  Still, it’s unclear how much revenue could be raised by
limits on tax expenditures. In his 2013 budget plan, President
 Barack Obama  proposed raising about $750 billion over the next
decade from reducing tax breaks for married couples making more
than $250,000 a year and individuals making more than $200,000.  Most Expensive Breaks  Each of the most expensive tax breaks -- employer-sponsored
health care, charitable contributions, home mortgage interest
and state and local taxes -- has influential constituencies,
Williams said.  “Once you take the things off the table that are off the
table,” Williams said, “back of the envelope I could not come
up with a way to do it.”  Whatever deficit reduction can’t be achieved by broadening
the tax base and making spending cuts would come from economic
growth. In a Feb. 22 conference call with reporters, Romney
adviser  Glenn Hubbard  said the “precise estimates” of such
growth would be released later. The campaign isn’t asserting
that the tax cuts pay for themselves.  “Offering gimmicky proposals that rely on implausible
levels of economic growth and blow huge holes in the budget is
easy,” Romney wrote in the Wall Street Journal yesterday.
“Fixing our very serious problems is not.”  Feedback Effects  Hubbard described the feedback effects of the tax cuts as
“very large” for corporate rates because those changes would
encourage more investment in the U.S. For individuals, he said,
there are “substantial” effects in higher tax brackets from
lower marginal rates.  Economists and tax analysts disagree as to how much of the
apparent revenue loss of a tax cut is made up with more robust
economic growth, and the debate on the issue has been lingering
for decades, through tax reductions and tax increases.  The estimates are sensitive to assumptions about reactions
from workers, investors and the  Federal Reserve . They also
depend on whether the tax cut is deficit-financed or its cost
covered by spending reductions.  The Joint Committee on Taxation, the nonpartisan
scorekeeper for Congress, doesn’t include the growth effects of
tax cuts in its estimates. It sometimes provides  those estimates 
to lawmakers.  Expiring Tax Cuts  For example, the two-year extension of expiring tax cuts at
the end of 2010 cost the U.S. government $858 billion in revenue
over 10 years. Depending upon assumptions as to whether the tax
cuts would be accompanied by spending reductions and on possible
Fed reaction, estimates of the extension’s cost were between
$719 billion and $1.05 trillion.  Tax cuts on capital income, such as the corporate income
tax, produce more significant feedback effects than do cuts to
taxes on labor, said Matthew Weinzierl, an assistant professor
at  Harvard Business School  who co-wrote  a paper  on the subject
with  Gregory Mankiw , a Romney adviser.  Over 10 years, the government can expect to recapture about
30 percent of the revenue from tax cuts on capital income and
about 10 percent to 15 percent from tax cuts on labor, he said.  “They would be wise to be cautious about claiming too much
feedback effect,” said Weinzierl, who is unaffiliated with any
presidential candidate.  Linden said the experience of the past two decades -- when
the  budget deficit  rose after the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts were
enacted and shrank after the 1993 tax increase -- demonstrates
the perils of trying to link tax rates with economic growth.  ‘No Evidence’  “When you get good growth, there obviously is a feedback
effect,” he said. “There is no evidence whatsoever that
reducing taxes on the wealthy will cause that.”  Douglas Holtz-Eakin , who advised Republican presidential
nominee  John McCain  in 2008, said he expects no more than one-
third of the cost of the tax cut could be recouped through
growth.  He said the Romney campaign can probably hit its targets on
broadening the tax base, though some of those changes could be
politically difficult.  “There’s some advantage to not being specific about
that,” said Holtz-Eakin, who isn’t affiliated with a Republican
candidate this year. “When you’re specific, you run the risk of
ticking some people off. On the other hand, the more specific
you are, the more you have a mandate to implement it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  