-- Romney in Uphill Fight Against Obama in Wisconsin, Governor Walker Says
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-02-24T23:22:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/romney-in-uphill-fight-against-obama-in-wisconsin-governor-walker-says.html
Mitt Romney  will “do very well” in
 Wisconsin  if he wins the Republican presidential nomination,
Governor  Scott Walker  said, although President  Barack Obama  has
the edge heading into the November election.  Walker, a 44-year-old Republican who took office after the
2010 elections that also gave the party a majority in the U.S.
House of Representatives, said “conventional wisdom” in his
state is that Romney will face Obama. The president stands to
gain from any improvement in the economy, he said.  “Any time you have an incumbent, it’s always an uphill
battle,” Walker said on Bloomberg Television’s “Political
Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend.  “If they feel like we’re headed toward greater prosperity
not only in  Wisconsin (USUSWI) , but across the country, then I think the
president’s going to continue,” Walker said.  Walker, who may face a recall after clashing with public-
employee unions over a law that curbs their bargaining power,
said he isn’t going to endorse a candidate. He said he’s focused
on keeping his job.  The governor, who is the former executive of Milwaukee
County, backed the labor restrictions, which prompted weeks of
protests and occupations of the Capitol. At least 1 million
people signed petitions to force him from office, almost as many
as voted for him in 2010. If the state’s Government
Accountability Board validates enough signatures, an election
will be held in May or June.  Forced to Raise  Walker has raised more than $12 million since January 2011,
including $4.5 million between Dec. 11 and Jan. 17, according to
the Government Accountability Board.  The Americans for Prosperity Foundation, a branch of the
group founded by the billionaire Koch brothers known for giving
to conservative causes, backed a $700,000 advertising campaign
to defend him, the  Washington Post reported  this month.  “I wouldn’t have to spend a penny, wouldn’t have to spend
a penny, wouldn’t be raising a penny, there wouldn’t be any
money on TV right now if it wasn’t for the out-of-state unions
and the money they’re not only spending now,” he said. “We
wouldn’t have this fight if it weren’t for the tens of millions
of dollars that were spent in the recall election.”  The governor said Republican presidential candidates have
gone “too far” in criticism of unions.  “All these different debates and forums, it skews toward
trying to define things as to how can you appeal to the primary
base,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  