-- Romney Casts Self as Washington Outsider
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-02-24T16:23:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/romney-offers-himself-as-washington-outsider-in-speech-targeting-santorum.html
Mitt Romney  pitched himself as a
Washington outsider to Tea Party activists in Michigan as he
tried to take advantage of debate comments that left his leading
opponent in the Republican presidential race on the defensive.  Returning to his native state for a final push ahead of its
Feb. 28 primary, Romney last night took aim at former U.S.
Senator  Rick Santorum  of  Pennsylvania  without mentioning him by
name.  “People go to Washington and they vote for things that
they don’t believe in,” Romney told a standing-room-only
audience of about 400 at a banquet hall in suburban  Detroit .  The former Massachusetts governor was spotlighting
Santorum’s remarks in the Feb. 22 debate in  Arizona  that he had
voted for proposals in Congress that he has since said violated
his fiscal and moral principles. Describing politics as a “team
sport,” Santorum said he backed legislation such as then-
President  George W. Bush ’s No Child Left Behind education
measure to “take one for the team.”  Santorum’s explanation could undercut his efforts to cast
himself as the most committed conservative in the Republican
race and the candidate who most consistently stands by his
convictions.  Romney, in his bid to capitalize on the opening, told his
listeners in Milford, Michigan, that one of his opponents had
spent most of the debate “describing why it was that he voted
against his principles.”  ‘My Team’  He added: “Well, my team is the people of the  United
States of America .”  Romney follows up his appeal to the Tea Party grassroots
movement with a midday speech today to the Detroit Economic
Club. His audience of business leaders should provide a friendly
environment for the former private equity executive. Outside the
hall, the atmosphere may be more hostile.  The United Auto Workers union has  called  on its members to
stage a protest, drawing attention to Romney’s continued
opposition to the $82 billion federal bailout of the automotive
industry that was backed by President  Barack Obama .  Santorum raised money in Texas yesterday with an appearance
before the political action committee that is supporting him,
the  Red White and Blue Fund . He is scheduled to campaign today
and part of tomorrow in  Michigan , where his campaign is pushing
to deal Romney an embarrassing setback. Polls show a close race
between the two.  The pro-Santorum super-PAC is spending $257,000 between now
and Feb. 29 for  television advertising  in  Ohio , one of the 11
states with March 6 “Super Tuesday” contests, according to
Stuart Roy, a spokesman for the group.  Ad Spending  Spending in Michigan on commercials by Romney’s team and a
political action committee backing him has outpaced comparable
expenditures on behalf of Santorum by about 3-2, according to
data from New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG.  The Romney campaign and the super-PAC Restore Our Future,
which independently promotes his candidacy, spent $1.97 million
to air ads 3,718 times on Michigan broadcast television stations
through Feb. 22, CMAG reported. Santorum and the Red White and
Blue Fund spent $1.25 million to air ads 3,178 times. The two
super-PACs paid for 4,077 of the 6,896 ads, or 59 percent of the
total.  Auto Industry  Obama’s re-election campaign yesterday started running its
own ad in Michigan with an eye to the state’s importance in
November’s general election. The  spot  is critical of the
opposition among all the Republican presidential candidates to
the auto industry bailout.  MoveOn.org, a group that supports Obama, also will run an
ad in Michigan taking aim at Romney’s stance on the auto
industry rescue, the group said in an e-mailed statement today.  U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas  and former U.S. House
Speaker  Newt Gingrich  also are contending for the Republican
nomination.  Romney in his speech today is expected to highlight the tax
plan he outlined earlier this week. It calls for a 20 percent
across-the-board cut in  individual income tax  rates and would
also lower the top rate to 28 percent, from 35 percent, for
individuals, while limiting the deductions, exemptions and
credits now available to higher-income Americans.  Tax Overhaul  Romney told the Tea Party activists -- who support lower
federal spending and taxes -- that he wants to eliminate the
deductions to “maintain progressivity of the code.”  Arizona also has a Feb. 28 primary. On March 6 -- Super
Tuesday -- 11 states hold contests in which more than 400 of the
1,144 delegates needed to win the nomination are at stake.  Romney began yesterday in Arizona, delivering much the same
message he did later in Michigan. Referring to Santorum’s debate
comments, he told a building trade group in Phoenix, “I don’t
know that I’ve ever seen a politician explain in so many ways
why it was he voted against his principles.”  Underscoring that it is looking beyond the Feb. 28 votes,
Romney’s campaign announced that today it will formally open
headquarters in Ohio, one of the states with a March 6 primary.
Headlining the event in Columbus will be U.S. Senator  Rob Portman , an Ohio Republican backing Romney.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in  Washington  at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  