-- Romney Donors Deliver 9-to-1 Over Santorum
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-02-24T18:57:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/romney-s-long-time-donors-help-deliver-9-to-1-cash-advantage-over-santorum.html
Thomas Stemberg, co-founder of
 Staples Inc. (SPLS) , last month cut his 17th check to support Mitt Romney’s quest for the presidency. He wrote his first one nine
years ago.  Stemberg, now managing general partner at the Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based Highland Consumer Fund, is one of 40 donors
who have been underwriting Romney’s White House ambitions for
almost a decade. Since 2004, they have made a combined $11
million in donations as a down payment on Romney’s political
future. Stemberg’s stake, so far, is $100,000.  “Virtually every place he has been, the people who were
with him have stayed with him,” said Stemberg, whose efforts to
start Framingham, Massachusetts-based Staples were aided by an
investment from Bain Capital LLC, a Boston-based private equity
firm that Romney co-founded.  The size and endurance of the Romney operation provide
insight into the determination, organization and businesslike
efficiency the former private equity investor has brought to his
campaign.  During the past nine years, the contributions have been
deposited in two federal leadership political action committees
founded by Romney, his two presidential primary accounts, a
friendly super-PAC and five smaller PACs based either in early
primary states, such as  Iowa , or in states where there are no
limits on donations.  Early Money, Preparation  The earliest donations in 2004 through 2006 helped Romney
expand his political network beyond  Massachusetts  in preparation
for his first primary bid in 2008. The cash allowed him to
travel to meet with party activists and donate money to other
Republicans -- including influential state legislators,
governors and state parties.  From 2006 to 2008, Romney’s committees gave $388,000 to 91
candidates in Iowa, $72,750 to 81 candidates in South Carolina,
and $48,750 to 43 candidates in New Hampshire, according to the
National Institute on Money in State Politics, a research group
based in Helena,  Montana .  They also paid the salaries of staff members who have since
moved to Romney’s presidential campaign, such as current
campaign manager Matt Rhoades and campaign press secretary
Andrea Saul, Federal Election Commission records show.  Besides Stemberg, Romney’s longtime donors include J.W. Marriott Jr. and his brother, Richard, fellow members of the
Church of  Jesus Christ  of Latter-day Saints who have given a
combined $2 million to keep Romney’s presidential hopes alive.  Bain Donations  Edward Conard, a former Bain associate, and Peter Karmanos Jr., executive chairman of Detroit-based  Compuware Corp. (CPWR) , are
also early financiers, with combined giving of almost $1.4
million.  Another is William Koch, whose brothers David and Charles
run Koch Industries Inc., donated millions to independent groups
in 2010 to oust the House Democratic majority and have vowed to
spend more this cycle to defeat President  Barack Obama . Koch and
the closely held energy company that he is chairman of, West
Palm Beach, Florida-based Oxbow Corp., have given $1.1 million
to Romney since 2006, including $1 million to the super-PAC.  Major contributors can also be found in Massachusetts,
where Romney served as governor for four years; on  Wall Street ,
thanks to Romney’s background in finance at Bain; and in  Utah ,
where he was chairman of the Salt Lake City committee for the
2002 Winter Olympics.  Biggest Money Raiser  They have helped Romney and the super-PAC backing him raise
more money than all of the other candidates for the Republican
presidential nomination. Through Jan. 31, Romney raised more
than $63 million for his campaign, and Restore Our Future, the
super-PAC supporting him, took in almost $37 million -- of which
$6.6 million came from his 40 core supporters.  Former Pennsylvania senator  Rick Santorum , his closest
rival, has raised $6.7 million. Romney has raised more than nine
times that sum, disclosure records show.  “Mitt had a dream and a goal and he went after it in
2004,” said Trey Hardin, a senior vice president with Vox
Global in  Washington  and a Republican strategist who isn’t
supporting any of the presidential candidates. “That’s what’s
involved or required to be in the big time these days: looking
way ahead, starting things years in advance, building that
foundation, developing those relationships and raising that
money.”  State Committees  Romney broke new ground in 2004 when he established both a
federal account and state committees in  Alabama , Iowa,  Michigan ,
New Hampshire and  South Carolina , all operating under the name
Commonwealth PAC. Many of those state PACs allowed donors to
contribute more than the federal maximum of $5,000 a year.  After losing the 2008 primary race to Arizona Senator  John McCain , Romney reconstituted the network under the name Free and
Strong America PAC. Romney’s donors gained a new way to back his
candidacy financially when the  Supreme Court ’s Citizens United
decision led to the creation of super-PACs, which can take in
unlimited donations.  “Romney already held a financial advantage over the other
candidates,” said  Anthony Corrado , a government professor at
Colby College in Waterville,  Maine . “What the super-PAC has
allowed him to do is build on that by accessing Romney’s network
of wealthy donors.”  A Case Study  A look at Stemberg’s donations illustrates how the
operation works.  His first check was written in 2004 for $1,700 and donated
to Romney’s federal Commonwealth PAC. In 2006, he gave the
federal committee the legal limit of $5,000 and donated $15,000
to the Iowa committee, $10,000 to the Michigan outlet and $5,000
to the  New Hampshire  arm. The majority of the state committee
proceeds were transferred to the federal committee to underwrite
the headquarters operations.  When Romney announced his first presidential bid in 2007,
Stemberg contributed $2,300, the maximum allowed under federal
law. Romney’s federal and state committees sat idle during the
primary race because he couldn’t legally use them to support his
candidacy.  After Romney withdrew from the primary and reopened his
state and federal committees, Stemberg donated the maximum
$5,000 annually to the federal committee from 2008 to 2011. He
also gave $5,000 to the New Hampshire committee in 2009. A year
later, he contributed $10,000 to Romney’s Alabama committee and
$3,500 to the South Carolina account.  When Romney entered the 2012 primary race, Stemberg donated
the maximum $2,500 and, thus far, he has given $20,000 to
Restore Our Future.  Marriott Millions  A similar steady stream of giving applies to the donations
of Marriott, chairman of the Bethesda, Maryland-based hotel
chain Marriott International Inc., who has given $954,844 to
Romney since 2006. Last month, he gave $250,000 to Restore Our
Future, bringing his PAC donations total to $750,000.  His brother, Richard, chairman of Bethesda-based  Host
Hotels & Resorts Inc. (HST) , has given more than $1 million, including
$750,000 to Restore Our Future and more than $90,000 to the
Alabama PAC.  Romney’s first name is Willard, named for the Marriott
brothers’ father, John Willard Marriott. The elder Marriott was
a close friend of Romney’s father, George, a former Michigan
governor.  The presidential hopeful also has received support from his
former colleagues at Bain. Conard contributed $4,500 to Romney’s
Commonwealth PAC in 2004. He has now donated more than $1.1
million to support Romney, including $1 million to Restore Our
Future. Conard initially set up a corporation, W Spann LLC, to
make the $1 million donation, though later said he wrote the
check and asked the committee to identify him as the donor.  Karmanos, the executive chairman of Detroit-based
Compuware, has given $256,300 to Romney, including donations to
his PACs in New Hampshire, Iowa and Michigan. He contributed the
maximum to Romney’s 2008 and 2012 White House runs. He was a
fundraiser for the 2008 campaign, according to Public Citizen, a
Washington-based advocacy group.  “I wanted to help him jump start his campaign for national
office,” Karmanos said. “He’s always talked about among my
friends and business associates. I’m concerned about my country
and issues like energy, education and health care. I really
think he has the ability, both intellectually and from
understanding how to compromise, to actually attack those
problems.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 