-- Romney in Native Michigan Tells Detroit Economic Club He’ll Revive Growth
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-02-24T20:26:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/romney-in-native-michigan-tells-detroit-economic-club-he-ll-revive-growth.html
Mitt Romney told  Michigan  business
leaders he’ll revive the state’s economy and the nation’s as a
whole by lowering taxes and lessening the role of the federal
government if he’s elected president.  “I believe the American people are ready for real
leadership,” the Republican White House contender said in a
speech today to the Detroit Economic Club. “I believe they
really do deserve a bold, conservative plan for reform and
growth.”  The speech, to a crowd seated on the field of a mostly
vacant stadium where the Detroit Lions football team plays, came
in Romney’s native state ahead of Michigan’s Feb. 28 primary,
the same day Arizona holds a similar vote. Polls show a close
race in  Michigan (BEESMI)  between him and former Senator  Rick Santorum  of
 Pennsylvania ; Romney leads in Arizona, surveys show.  A loss in the state where Romney was born would be an
embarrassment for him and would provide a major boost to
Santorum, who also was campaigning in Michigan today.  Romney in his speech highlighted the tax plan he outlined
earlier this week that calls for a 20 percent across-the-board
cut in  individual income tax  rates and would also lower the top
rate to 28 percent, from 35 percent, for individuals, while
limiting the deductions, exemptions and credits now available to
higher-income Americans.  Growth, Spending Cuts  “These changes, I will not allow to raise the deficit,”
Romney said. “Stronger economic growth, spending cuts and
broadening the base will offset the reductions.”  The former Massachusetts governor and business executive
said his proposed changes would encourage growth and investment
and not “just penalize people for being successful.”  Romney, 64, criticized unions and management for the
decline of the U.S. automotive industry, as well as federal fuel
economy standards that he said hurt domestic car companies while
providing benefits to some foreign competitors.  “ Detroit  should not just be the Motor City of America,”
he said. “It’s got to be the Motor City of the entire world.”  Romney said he loves cars and that he drives a Mustang and
a Chevy pickup, while his wife, Ann, has “a couple of
Cadillacs.”  Romney’s focus on improving the economy and his criticism
of the Obama administration as a “failed presidency” came as
unemployment in Michigan has declined from a peak of 14.1
percent in August 2009 to 9.3 percent last December, the latest
figure available. The national  unemployment rate  in January was
8.3 percent.  ‘Lip Service’  President  Barack Obama ’s campaign said Romney would have
let the auto industry go bankrupt, referring to his opposition
to the federal bailout of General Motors Co. and Chrysler Group
LLC.  The Obama campaign also said Romney is paying “lip
service” to the middle class.  “ Mitt Romney  has proposed a fiscally irresponsible plan
that would increase the deficit by $5 trillion over the next
decade” and “provide millionaires with tax breaks 800 percent
larger than those for the middle class,” Obama campaign
spokesman  Ben LaBolt  said in an e-mail after Romney spoke.  While the audience of several hundred inside the stadium
were supportive of Romney, the atmosphere outside was hostile.  The United Auto Workers union had  called  on its members to
stage a protest, drawing attention to Romney’s continued
criticism of the $82 billion federal automotive bailout.  Several Democratic UAW members gathered in freezing rain
and snow outside Ford Field said they’re planning to vote in the
Republican primary to oppose Romney.  ‘It’s Personal’  “It’s personal to us,” said Gail Lavigne, 43, a member of
UAW Local 600 and employee of Ford Motor Co. “He didn’t want to
try to help the auto companies, so it’s very personal -- it’s
our jobs.”  While Lavigne said she voted for Obama in 2008 and will do
so again in November, she’s planning to cast a ballot in the
Michigan primary for either Santorum of Representative  Ron Paul 
of  Texas  “to show Mitt that just because he’s from Michigan
that we’re not going to support him.”  UAW member Jeff Hodges, 45, of  Garden City , another Obama
supporter, said he also plans to vote against Romney in the
primary.  It sends “a strong message if he loses his own state,” he
said. “If you’re no good in your own state, how can you be good
anywhere else?”  Union Members  Pat Sweeney, president of UAW Local 5960 in Lake Orion,
said he’s heard members talking about doing the same thing.  “I haven’t heard that from the leadership or anything like
that, but there are some members out there throwing that out
there,” he said.  UAW President  Bob King  said the union isn’t encouraging
members to vote in the Republican primary against Romney.  “Whatever members feel is right for them, that’s fine,”
he said today in an interview outside the stadium. “I’m not
encouraging it, I’m not discouraging it.”  UAW member Rachael Siemen, 41, of Port Huron, said she
plans to vote for Santorum.  “If we drag this clown show out as long as we can, it’s
just going to help us in the long run,” she said.  Polls  Democrats will account for about 10 percent of voters in
the Republican primary, according to a recent poll by Lansing-
based EPIC-MRA. Those Democrats are evenly divided between
Santorum, Romney and Paul, said Bernie Porn, EPIC-MRA president.  The poll of 400 likely primary voters conducted Feb. 18-21
showed Santorum leading Romney, 37 percent to 34 percent. Almost
half the respondents -- 45 percent -- said they would consider
changing their minds before the primary. Other recent polls have
shown Romney slightly ahead.  In Michigan’s 2000 Republican presidential primary,
Democrats and independents were credited with helping Senator
 John McCain  of  Arizona  defeat then-Texas Governor  George W. Bush . Exit polls showed about 18 percent of those who voted in
the Republican primary were Democrats and they chose McCain over
Bush by a 4-to-1 ratio.  “If only Republicans had voted, Bush would have won,”
Porn said.  Ad Spending  Spending in Michigan on commercials by Romney’s team and a
political action committee backing him outpaced comparable
expenditures on behalf of Santorum by about 3-2, according to
data from New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG.  Romney’s campaign and the super-PAC Restore Our Future,
which independently promotes his candidacy, spent $1.97 million
to air ads 3,718 times on Michigan broadcast TV stations through
Feb. 22, CMAG reported. Santorum and the super-Pac Red White and
Blue Fund that supports him spent $1.25 million to air ads 3,178
times. The two super-PACs paid for 4,077 of the 6,896 ads, or 59
percent of the total.  Obama’s re-election campaign yesterday started running its
own ad in Michigan with an eye to the state’s importance in
November’s general election. The  spot  is critical of the
opposition among all the Republican presidential candidates to
the  auto industry  bailout.  MoveOn.org, a group that supports Obama, also will run an
ad in Michigan taking aim at Romney’s stance on the auto
industry rescue, the group said in an e-mail today.  The pro-Santorum super-PAC is spending $257,000 between now
and Feb. 29 for  television advertising  in  Ohio , one of the 11
states with March 6 “Super Tuesday” contests, according to
Stuart Roy, a spokesman for the group.  In the Super Tuesday contests, more than 400 of the 1,144
delegates needed to win the nomination are at stake.  Romney was asked at the economic club gathering if he
thought he had the best chance of beating Obama.  “I not only think I have the best chance and I think I
have the only chance,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John McCormick  in Detroit at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Higgins in Detroit at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  