-- Romney’s Wealth Emerges as Subtext in ‘Cadillac’ Comment at Detroit Event
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-02-24T23:26:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/romney-in-mich-wife-owns-couple-of-cadillacs-.html
Mitt Romney  is a wealthy man, as he
keeps reminding voters, even if it’s unintentional.  In remarks today to the Detroit Economic Club, Romney
highlighted his love of American-made cars by saying he owns a
Ford Mustang and a Chevrolet pickup, while his wife, Ann, drives
“a couple of Cadillacs.”  Cadillacs retail for $36,000 to $74,000, according to
Edmunds.com., an online auto market. One reason the Romneys may
need multiple vehicles is that they own homes in Massachusetts
and  California , plus a vacation place in  New Hampshire .  Romney’s comments as he campaigned ahead of Michigan’s Feb.
28 primary are reminiscent of the inability of Senator John McCain of Arizona to remember during his losing 2008
presidential run how many houses he owned.  An NBC/Marist  survey  of likely voters in  Michigan ’s
Republican primary released Feb. 22 showed Romney had 37 percent
support and former U.S. Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania
with 35 percent. A Romney loss in Michigan, where he spent his
boyhood and where his father served as governor and an
automobile company chief executive, would be a blow to his
candidacy.  His comment today “once again emphasizes the difficulty he
has connecting with people,” said  Jennifer Duffy , an analyst
with the nonpartisan Cook Political Report in  Washington . “Most
people aspire to own one” Cadillac, she said.  ‘Very Poor’  He was forced to defend a Feb. 1 comment on CNN that, as he
offers proposals to help the middle class, he isn’t “very
concerned about the very poor” because they have a “safety
net” of government programs to aid them. Former U.S. House
Speaker  Newt Gingrich , another Republican presidential
contender, was among those attacking Romney’s remark, saying,
“I really believe that we should care about the very poor.”  In January, Romney told voters that he likes “being able
to fire people who provide services to me.” The comments
sparked criticism, though he was referring to health-insurance
providers, not employees.  He also faced questions after saying he would make a
$10,000 bet with then-presidential rival Rick Perry, the
governor of Texas, to settle an issue dispute during a Dec. 10
nationally televised debate. Romney later said in a Fox News
interview that he had offered “an outrageous number to answer
an outrageous charge.”  Romney, the former governor of  Massachusetts  who helped
form a private equity firm in  Boston , estimated his wealth to be
as much as $250 million on financial disclosure statements. He
earned $21.6 million in 2010, mostly from investments, according
to tax returns he released in late January.  Romney in his speech today also sought to establish his
connection to Michigan by saying it was good to be back in a
state where “the trees are the right height” and “the streets
are just right.” He didn’t elaborate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider in Washington at 
 Jschneider50@bloomberg.net  