-- Rudd to Challenge for Australian Leadership, Says Gillard Has Lost ‘Trust’
-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r   a n d   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-02-24T06:22:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/rudd-to-challenge-for-australian-leadership-says-gillard-has-lost-trust-.html
Former Australian Prime Minister
 Kevin Rudd  said he will challenge his successor  Julia Gillard  in
a Feb. 27 leadership ballot as the ruling Labor party seeks to
end weeks of rivalry that’s undermining the government.  “Julia has lost the trust of the Australian people,”
Rudd, who quit as foreign minister earlier this week, told
reporters today in Brisbane. “I want to finish the job the
Australian people elected me to do.”  The vote comes 20 months after Gillard ousted Rudd from the
nation’s top job in a party room coup amid complaints about his
autocratic style. The victor faces the challenge of overcoming
near-record low public support for the government, which is
trailing opposition leader  Tony Abbott ’s Liberal-National
coalition ahead of elections due in 2013.  Rudd is “throwing the gauntlet down to people in the
backbenches,” said John Wanna, a professor of public
administration at the Canberra-based Australian National
University. “He’s saying, ‘I can appeal to the Australian
public better than she can.’ Caucus is making a judgment on who
is the best bet to win the election next time round.”  Gillard told reporters the nation and her parliamentary
colleagues face the choice of “who has got the character, the
temperament and the strength to deliver on behalf of the
Australian people.”  ‘Celebrity Big Brother’  “This isn’t ‘Celebrity  Big Brother ,’” she said after Rudd
announced he will contest the vote, referring to a reality
television show where housemates try to avoid eviction. “It’s
about who can lead the nation.”  Labor was 14 percentage points behind the opposition in a
poll earlier this month, even amid falling unemployment and
rising consumer confidence. At stake for the party after the
contest is convincing voters its legislation to tax carbon
emissions and mining profits -- opposed by business groups --
will pay off for the nation.  “As a party we also face serious challenges,” Rudd said.
“If we’re honest with ourselves all indications are we’re
heading for the rocks at the next election, leaving the country
to the ravages of Mr. Abbott and the most conservative
government, the most right-wing government, in prospect in
 Australia ’s political history.”  Rudd told reporters he would not challenge Gillard a second
time if he loses the ballot, and instead would serve as a
lawmaker on the backbench.  Currency Reaction  The Australian dollar was unchanged immediately following
Rudd’s announcement. The currency bought $1.0725 at 5 p.m. in
Sydney from $1.0717 yesterday in  New York . Australia’s benchmark
10-year bond yield was 4.09 percent, five basis points above
yesterday’s close.  Rudd’s pitch to oust Gillard hinges on convincing Labor
lawmakers that he’s popular enough with the Australian public to
win an election, amid criticism from party colleagues about his
leadership style.  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  condemned the former foreign minister
this week as a man of “great weakness” who had demeaned his
party colleagues during his 2007-2010 tenure as prime minister.  “This is not a question of personalities -- of who you
like and dislike -- it’s a question of vision, of policy and
trust and confidence,” Rudd said in Brisbane earlier today
after flying home from meetings with government officials in the
U.S.  He listed the “big” policy challenges facing Australia,
such as encouraging small businesses to boost investment through
 tax reform  and continuing government support for manufacturing
including the nation’s car industry.  ‘Captain Perfect’  In a television interview broadcast Feb. 19 Rudd portrayed
himself as a changed man who now recognizes the need to delegate
authority and told reporters today he isn’t “captain perfect.”  “He’s been saying ‘I’m a new man,’ and doing mea culpas
but people don’t believe it -- that’s why they booted him out in
the first place,” said Stephen Bell, a professor at the School
of Political Science and International Studies at the University
of Queensland.  Attorney-General  Nicola Roxon , who was health minister
under Rudd, told  Sky News  today that she “absolutely wouldn’t
accept” an offer to work for him again if he won.  “I did witness quite a lot of very bad behavior to staff
and to officials,” Roxon said in the interview. “I don’t think
that’s a good way to run a government.” By contrast, she has
never seen Gillard “lose her cool,” Roxon said.  ‘Labor Brand’  Rudd needs the support of 52 of the 103 lawmakers in the
Labor party to beat Gillard. As lawmakers began declaring their
allegiances, the Australian newspaper tallied 66 in favor of the
prime minister, with 31 for Rudd and six undecided.  “Regardless of who wins, it will be very hard to convince
voters to trust and believe in the Labor brand,” said  Andrew
Hughes , who conducts research in political marketing at the
 Australian National University  in Canberra.  Rudd’s pledge that he will not challenge the prime minister
a second time may remove the risk for Gillard that history could
repeat itself. Former Labor Prime Minister  Paul Keating  unseated
 Bob Hawke  20 years ago on his second attempt in six months.  Gillard pledged during a news conference in her hometown of
 Adelaide  yesterday to “renounce any ambition” for leadership
if she loses.  ‘Lance the Boil’  A “decisive” win by the prime minister could “lance the
boil and then Gillard can get back to her message of being a
good reformer and legislator,” said  Malcolm Mackerras , a
political analyst at the Australian Catholic University in
Canberra and author of books including “Australian Political
Facts.” “Then the government might just get back on track and
have a chance of winning the next election.”  Abbott, 54, told reporters today “he can’t believe the
poison in the Australian  Labor party .” The Liberal-Nationals
have pledged to scrap the mining and  climate-change  measures.
The mining tax has yet to become law, awaiting a vote in the
Senate.  Rudd enjoyed record-high popularity early in his 31 months
in office after defeating  John Howard ’s Liberal-National
coalition government in November 2007.  Support for his leadership among voters surged to a record
73 percent after he garnered plaudits for offering the nation’s
first apology to Aborigines for past injustices. His government
helped steer Australia’s economy through the global financial
crisis, boosting spending on schools and roads and distributing
more than A$20 billion ($21.4 billion) in cash to households.  Popularity Evaporates  His popularity evaporated after he postponed the
introduction of a carbon trading plan to limit climate change, a
phenomenon he’d described as the “greatest moral and economic
challenge of our time.”  Rudd said he supported putting a price on carbon and would
“be working for the earliest possible transition to an
emissions trading scheme and a floating price.”  Under a law coming into effect on July 1, the government
will charge about 500 polluters A$23 a ton for discharges until
the set price gives way to a cap-and-trade system in 2015.  “I think it’s important to look very carefully at how the
implementation” goes in its first six months, Rudd said.  The leadership dispute “isn’t good for anyone,” Michael Fraser, managing director of Sydney-based electricity retailer
 AGL Energy Ltd. (AGK) , said in a phone interview today. “People elect
politicians to get on with the job of governing Australia, and
clearly that is being distracted by the goings-on in Canberra.”  AGL, a developer of renewable energy projects including the
A$1 billion Macarthur wind farm in Victoria state, wouldn’t
expect “any immediate impact as a consequence of a change in
Labor leadership,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  