-- Russian Man Pleads Guilty to Cyber-Fraud Conspiracy in U.S.
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-02-24T18:51:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/russian-national-pleads-guilty-to-cyber-fraud-conspiracy-in-u-s-.html
A Russian national charged by U.S.
authorities with orchestrating a cyber-fraud scheme from  Europe 
pleaded guilty to illegally gaining computer access to bank
accounts via websites claiming to offer goods and merchandise.  Vladimir Zdorovenin pleaded guilty in federal court in
 Manhattan  on Feb. 17 to a count of conspiracy and a count of
 wire fraud , records show. Federal prosecutors alleged that a
scheme from 2004 to 2005 involving Zdorovenin, his son and
others preyed on U.S. consumers who believed the unauthorized
charges were for legitimate goods.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Gabriel Gorenstein, after accepting
Zdorovenin’s plea, ordered that he remain in custody. He was
arrested in Zurich last March before being extradited to New
York. His son, Kirill, remains at large, prosecutors said.  Sabrina Shroff, a lawyer for Vladimir Zdorovenin, didn’t
immediately return a voice-mail message today seeking comment
about the guilty plea.  Prosecutors alleged in an indictment that the Zdorovenins
and unidentified accomplices controlled U.S.-registered
companies Sofeco LLC, Pintado LLC and Tallit LL that appeared to
be legitimate Internet merchants.  The defendants both took unauthorized charges on customers’
credit cards, prosecutors said. They also got credit card
numbers by either buying them from unidentified people who had
obtained them illegally or by using computer programs that were
surreptitiously installed on victims’ computers, the U.S.
alleged.  Financial Services Accounts  The Zdorovenins engaged in a scheme from June 2004 to
February 2005 to access financial services accounts of U.S.
victims and attempted to transfer hundreds of thousands of
dollars into bank accounts they controlled at  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  and a company identified in the indictment as Asia Europe
America’s Bank, prosecutors said.  The defendants also maintained a financial services account
at Ameritrade Inc. and bought and sold securities in publicly
traded companies through a business called Rim Investment
Management Ltd., prosecutors said.  The Zdorovenins were accused of committing  securities fraud 
by purchasing and selling thousands of shares of securities of
companies, including  Terayon Communications Systems Inc. (TERN)  and
Internet Capital Group Inc., by trading in the accounts of U.S.
victims, prosecutors said.  The Zdorovenins bought and sold securities in the same
companies in their Rim account at Ameritrade, manipulating and
earning profits they wouldn’t otherwise have made, the U.S.
said.  The indictment alleges that in July 2004 both Zdorovenins
participated in meetings with unidentified co-conspirators in
Cyprus. Those co-conspirators transferred almost $300,000 from a
financial services account of a person in the U.S. to a bank
account controlled by Vladimir and Kirill Zdorovenin, the
government said.  The case is U.S. v. Zdorovenin, 07-cr-00440, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  