-- Micex Rises Most in 3 Months as Oil Gains on U.S.; Surgut Jumps
-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n   a n d   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y
-- 2012-02-24T16:12:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/russian-stocks-head-for-biggest-gain-in-a-week-as-crude-climbs.html
Russian stocks climbed, pushing the
30-share  Micex (INDEXCF)  index to its strongest advance in three months,
as signs of recovery in the U.S. spurred demand for oil, the
country’s chief export.  The Micex climbed 3.7 percent to 1,594.55 by the close in
Moscow, the largest daily gain since November and a weekly
increase of 1.7 percent.  OAO Lukoil (LKOH) ,  Russia ’s biggest non-state
oil company, rose 5.2 percent. The dollar-denominated  RTS Index (RTSI$) 
increased 5 percent to 1,722.05, the best performance among
equity indexes tracked by Bloomberg worldwide. The  Russian
Depositary Index (RDXUSD)  of London-traded depositary receipts of Russian
companies jumped 0.8 percent to 1,819.72 yesterday as trading
was closed in Moscow for a national holiday.  Climbing crude prices, which with gas contribute about 50
percent of state revenue, helped erase a two-day, 2.6 percent
drop in the Micex earlier in the week. Oil added 0.6 percent to
$108.48 a barrel in  New York , a seventh day of gains, after U.S.
jobless claims held at the fewest since March 2008.  “Good macro statistics and a partial solution to the issue
of Greek debt” are driving positive global sentiment that is
helping Russian stocks, Sergey Kucherenko, who manages about $50
million in the country’s equities at Nomos Bank in Moscow, said
by e-mail. “ Oil prices  are trending upwards in the medium- and
long-term. Although a short-term downward correction can’t be
ruled out, overall the market is looking up.”  OAO Surgutneftegas, Russia’s fourth-largest oil producer,
led gains on the Micex. The shares rose 6.5 percent to  30.497
rubles, the highest closing price since April 11.  ‘Bigger Moves’  “The buying mostly originated from exchange-traded fund
inflows, which just try to replicate the index,” Julian Rimmer,
a trader of Russian shares at CF Global Trading in  London , said
by e-mail. “Surgutneftegas, as one of the less liquid,
heavyweight index names, is more susceptible to bigger moves as
a consequence.”  OAO Rosneft, the country’s biggest oil producer, rose 3.9
percent to 225.5 rubles. Crude may rise next week as sanctions
on  Iran  tighten, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  After dropping 6.5 percent in December, the Micex is up 14
percent this year and trades at 6.3 times analysts’ earnings
estimates for member companies, the cheapest among 21  emerging
markets  tracked by Bloomberg.  Brazil ’s Bovespa index is valued at 11.7 times estimated
earnings, the Shanghai Composite Index trades at 10.1 times
estimated earnings, and the BSE India Sensitive Index has a
ratio of 15.8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Denis Maternovsky in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net ;
Jack Jordan in Moscow at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  