-- New Home Sales in U.S. Likely Rose to Nine-Month High
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-02-24T05:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/sales-of-new-homes-in-u-s-probably-increased-to-highest-in-nine-months.html
Purchases of  new homes  in the U.S.
probably rose in January to a nine-month high, more evidence the
housing market is improving, economists said before a report
today.  Sales, tabulated when contracts are signed, climbed 2.6
percent to a 315,000 annual pace, according to the  median 
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 77 economists.  Consumer
confidence  declined in February from a month earlier, separate
data may show.  Beazer Homes USA Inc. (BZH)  and  D.R. Horton Inc. (DHI)  are among
builders benefiting from job gains as well as cheaper properties
and lower  mortgage rates  that have driven affordability to a
record high. At the same time, foreclosures that depress prices
are a risk, one reason policy makers including Federal Reserve
officials are seeking ways to bolster the industry.  “There are signs of greater demand as affordability is
very attractive right now,” said  Michelle Meyer , a senior
economist at Bank of America Corp. in  New York . “Parts of the
housing market are stabilizing, but it will still take a long
time.”  The Commerce Department report is due at 10 a.m. in
Washington. Economists’ forecasts ranged from 300,000 to
355,000.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final  index  of
consumer sentiment fell to 73 in February from 75 a month
earlier, according to the Bloomberg survey median. The
preliminary reading for this month was 72.5. The report is due
at 9:55 a.m.  7 Percent  New-home sales have lost their ability to forecast the
broader market as demand shifts to previously owned houses.
Purchases of existing houses are calculated when a deal closes
about a month or two later. New properties made up almost 7
percent of the market last year.  Existing-home (ETSLTOTL)  purchases rose to a 4.57 million annual rate,
the National Association of Realtors reported this week. While
it was the highest level since May 2010, distressed properties
made up the largest portion of all purchases since April. The
median price fell 2 percent to $154,700 last month from January
2011.  Demand is getting a boost as more homes become affordable.
The Realtors group’s  measure  of whether households earning the
median income can buy a median-priced property at current
 interest rates  reached record levels in the last three months of
2011, recent data showed.  Warmer Weather  The fourth-warmest January on record may have also helped
bring out homebuyers. The  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration  reported the average temperature was 36.3 degrees
Fahrenheit (2.39 degrees Celsius), 5.5 degrees above the 1901-
2000 long-term average.  Among other signs that housing is improving, builders broke
ground on more homes than forecast in January, and permits also
advanced. The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
index of builder confidence climbed in February to the highest
level since May 2007.  D.R. Horton , the largest U.S. homebuilder by volume,
reported net home orders rose to 3,794 in the final three months
of 2011, from 3,363 a year earlier. Beazer Homes said demand
jumped 36 percent in that period, and closings on new houses
surged more than 60 percent.  “While our visibility into the economic conditions for the
remainder of the year is limited, I believe that we will benefit
from a gradually improving housing market,” Allan Merrill,
chief executive officer of Atlanta-based Beazer, said on an
earnings call on Feb. 2.  Share Prices  Investors also are upbeat about prospects for the industry.
The S&P Supercomposite Homebuilding Index has advanced 17
percent this year through yesterday, double the 8.4 percent gain
in the broader  S&P 500 .  Bank of America Corp., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and three other
U.S. banks reached a $25 billion settlement with 49 states and
the U.S. government to end a probe of abusive foreclosure
practices prompted by the collapse of the housing-price bubble.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has said the central bank’s
efforts to spur growth are being blunted by impediments to
mortgage lending and called for more steps to heal housing.  “We need to continue to develop and implement policies
that will help the housing sector get back on its feet,”
Bernanke told homebuilders on Feb. 10 in  Orlando ,  Florida .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  