-- Santorum Deepened Faith After Child’s Death Now at Fore of Race
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-02-24T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/santorum-deepened-faith-after-child-s-death-now-at-fore-of-race.html
Rick Santorum  tells voters he prayed
to decide whether to run for president. God, opposition to
abortion and the primacy of the traditional family are staples
of his campaign stump speech. He’s standing by a comment he 
once made that Satan was targeting the U.S.  In a Republican presidential race that has been dominated
by debate over the economy, Santorum has singlehandedly brought
a discussion of faith to the fore, making a play for the party’s
religiously motivated voters while risking a backlash from
others who see such issues as abortion rights as divisive
detours.  For Santorum, who has eclipsed  Mitt Romney  in national
polls, a faith-based pitch could be crucial to winning states
like  Michigan , which along with Arizona holds its primary Feb.
28, as well as  Ohio  and Southern states that vote March 6.  That appeal is also bringing added scrutiny to his campaign
at a time when Santorum is struggling to present himself as a
viable alternative to Romney, a Mormon who rarely speaks of his
faith and has styled himself as an economic-turnaround artist.  “This is what I know gets everybody in the secular left
just bonkers about my campaign -- they just go crazy, because I
say that America is, at its heart, a moral enterprise,”
Santorum told voters at a Feb. 22 rally by the Tucson Tea Party.
“We see a president who is systematically trying to crush the
traditional Judeo-Christian principles in this country.”  A Changed Man  Such talk is natural for Santorum, 53, a Roman Catholic who
during his 16-year congressional career evolved from a U.S.
House member known for tackling corruption and pressing for
balanced budgets into a senator remembered for injecting the
government into a family dispute over whether to remove feeding
tubes for Terri Schiavo, a woman living in a vegetative state in
a Florida hospital.  “He would tell you that his faith grew, and that his
belief in fighting for pro-life causes grew, and that those were
backburner issues for him, so he certainly changed as a
person,” said John Brabender, an adviser who has worked on
Santorum’s campaigns since his initial 1990 run for the House.
“He became sort of a warrior on those social conservative
issues, and taking on fights that other people didn’t want to.”  Child’s Death  The transformation began around the same time as Santorum’s
loss of a child, Gabriel Michael, in 1996, Brabender said. Born
at 20 weeks gestation, the baby lived only two hours outside the
womb, after which Santorum and his wife, Karen, brought him home
to cuddle and sing to him with his siblings rather than sending
him directly to a funeral home. Santorum kept a framed
photograph of Gabriel on the desk in his Senate office. Soon
after, he sponsored legislation to ban a late-term abortion
procedure known to its opponents as “partial-birth abortion.”  Now, Santorum, who’s usually accompanied on stage by some
of his seven home-schooled children, is often asked about his
disabled 3-year-old youngest daughter, Bella. She suffers from a
chromosomal disorder, and he offers her as the personification
of his anti-abortion rights views.  “Ninety percent of these kids or more are aborted, because
the medical community thinks that these folks just have lives
that aren’t worth living,” he told a questioner in Tucson. “If
we are a society that only values life that can do things, then
you know what? All of us are in trouble.”  Resonates in Heartlands  His talk of faith “resonates in the heartlands,”
Brabender said. “We think that’s a big part of why he’s risen
so dramatically in the polls.”  That’s true of Diane Salgado, 46, of Tucson, who donned her
Virgin Mary earrings and pendant as well as a crucifix and
brought her five home-schooled children, ages 3 through 12, to
hear Santorum speak at a rally this week.  “He’s a man of real character who’s really putting his
money where his mouth is in terms of his faith,” said Salgado,
who plans to vote for Santorum. “Why can’t faith inform our
civic discourse? It’s like these are dirty words now.”  Santorum’s approach evokes comparisons with former
President  George W. Bush , a born-again Christian. He spoke
frequently about his faith as a candidate and incorporated it
into his policy agenda, by enacting legislation to steer federal
money to religious organizations, cutting off funding for groups
that performed abortions, and backing a constitutional amendment
banning gay marriage.  Satan Speech  Salgado compared the recent controversy over a 2008 speech
Santorum gave at Ave Maria University, in which he said Satan was
targeting America, to the ridicule Bush received when he said
his favorite philosopher was  Jesus Christ .  “There’s always that disdain among the elite for someone
whose faith really comes out and defines them,” she said.  Santorum’s rhetoric is as much strategic as it is
instinctive, said former California Congressman Frank Riggs, a
supporter who served with him in the House. Riggs said Santorum
is working to strengthen his position with core Republican
voters before he can reach out to a broader electorate.  “To win an election requires that you first shore up your
base, and then -- and only then -- can you go looking for those
crossover voters and the more socially and economically
conservative Democrats, the blue-collar Democrats,” Riggs said.  Polls suggest the strategy is working. A Feb. 8-12 survey
by the Pew Center for the People & the Press showed a Santorum
surge powered by support from white evangelicals and Catholics.
He gained 14 points among all Republican voters to put him
essentially in a tie with Romney -- 30 percent to the ex-
Massachusetts governor’s 28 percent -- and saw even larger
improvements among white evangelicals, with whom he has an 18-
point edge over Romney, and Catholics, who give him a 10-point
advantage.  `Democratic Pipe Dream'  Still, some strategists argue that Santorum’s outspokenness
on religion and cultural issues would make it impossible for him
to beat President  Barack Obama  in November, and unlikely he
would win the Republican nomination.  “It’s a Democratic pipe dream,” Whit Ayres, a Republican
polling expert, said of the prospect that Santorum will be the
party’s nominee, because he would be “easier to demonize” than
Romney, who Ayres said is the “odds-on favorite” to win the
party’s nod. Santorum has “said some nutty things.”  “These issues rise and fall with Rick Santorum,” Ayres
said, referring to abortion rights and gay marriage. “If he
loses, they will recede.”  Out of Step  Santorum’s views on some social issues, including his
opposition to birth control, are out of step with those of many
Americans, including some in his own party.  A  poll conducted  Feb. 14-20 by the Quinnipiac University
Polling Institute found that 82 percent -- including 77 percent
of Republicans -- said it wasn’t wrong to use  birth control .
While the poll found a more partisan divide on abortion, 55
percent said it should be legal in all or most cases, including
58 percent of Independents. Sixty-one percent of Republicans
said abortion should be illegal in all or most cases.  That’s led to concern that Santorum could have particular
trouble appealing to women and suburban swing voters.  He created a stir in his 2005 book “It Takes a Family”
when he criticized “radical feminists” who were on a
“misogynistic crusade to make working outside the home the only
marker of social value and self-respect.”  Critics, including Senator Bob Casey Jr., a Democrat who
beat Santorum by 18 points in his 2006 re-election bid,
interpreted the assertion as a suggestion that a woman’s place
is only in the home.  Overshadowing Message  And Santorum’s advisers worry that public attention to his
emphasis on faith may overshadow other themes of his candidacy,
such as his plan to promote manufacturing jobs, his record on
spending issues and ridding Congress of corruption, and his
knowledge of foreign policy.  “It’s incumbent upon us to show all these other areas
where he’s had significant accomplishments,” Brabender said.  As open as Santorum has been about religion, his wife is 
sometimes more outspoken. She told South Carolina voters last 
month that while the family was reluctant for her husband to 
start a White House run, it was what God was “calling us to do.”  “We prayed and prayed about this decision,” she said at a
barbecue restaurant in Lexington.  Santorum, too, said he had “prayed a lot about this,”
before deciding to jump into the race.  Now he offers his willingness to talk about faith as proof
that he’s authentic, presenting a contrast with Romney, who he
charges is scripted and without true conservative principles.  Critics “may find a thing or two and say, ‘Oh look! He
said this, and it might mean this,’” Santorum told about 200
voters in Phoenix on Feb. 21, at the end of a day of media
frenzy over his 2008 Satan speech.  “We love you for it!” came a voice from the crowd,
interrupting Santorum mid-sentence.  “He loves me for it,” Santorum said with a smile.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Mesa,  Arizona  at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  