-- Santorum’s Millionaire Donor Mum on Why He Gave so Much
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-02-24T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/santorum-s-millionaire-backer-joins-club-that-stays-silent-on-motivations.html
Louisiana  energy executive William Doré wrote a $1 million check last month to help  Rick Santorum 
win the U.S. Republican presidential election -- a contribution
that came out of the blue, according to the former Pennsylvania
senator’s other major donor.  Doré is among 14 individuals who, through themselves, their
companies and their spouses, have given $1 million or more so
far this election cycle to support a particular presidential
candidate, Center for Responsive Politics data show.  What isn’t revealed is why a person gives.  Few big donors have been as vocal as Santorum’s other
million-dollar backer, Wyoming  fund manager  Foster Friess. He
has highlighted his shared Christian faith with Santorum in
several interviews. Doré is a more typical representative of
this year’s new million-dollar donor class -- he isn’t giving
interviews.  Meredith McGehee, policy director for the Campaign Legal
Center, said such donors are “fairly immune from any kind of
blow-back. Maybe they get a little bit of publicity, but how’s
it really going to hurt them?”  This contrasts with a corporation giving money, she said.
People can boycott corporations if they disagree with political
spending, as occurred in Minnesota when  Target Corp. (TGT)  took a side
in last year’s governor’s race. “With an individual, there’s
nothing really to boycott,” said McGehee.  Because He Can  At least one donor has said he’s giving simply because he
can.  “I’m against very wealthy people attempting to or
influencing elections,”  Sheldon Adelson , 78, a casino owner
whose family has given $11 million to a group support  Newt Gingrich ’s candidacy, said in a Forbes magazine article posted
online Feb. 21. “But as long as it’s doable I’m going to do
it.”  The Red, White and Blue Fund has helped buy $1.3 million in
 television advertising  to support Santorum in  Michigan , where
he’s in a tight race with former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney in most recent polls. An NBC News/Marist  poll  on Feb. 20
showed Romney leading Santorum, 37 percent to 35 percent.  Santorum was scheduled to speak yesterday at a fundraiser
for the super-PAC in  Dallas . Together, Doré and Friess have
accounted for more than 70 percent of the committee’s $2.8
million in contributions.  ‘Some Guy’  Friess, 72, described Doré in a Feb. 9 interview with
Bloomberg TV as a mystery man whom he’d never met.  “Some guy sent in a million dollars, we had no idea who he
was,” Friess said. “The money just suddenly appeared. No one
made a call.”  Friess didn’t give the man’s name in the interview; FEC
reports show Doré is the only person who wrote the Red, White
and Blue Fund a $1 million check, which the committee logged on
Jan. 11, a day after Santorum placed fifth in the New Hampshire
primary. He’d won the Iowa caucuses, an achievement that
wouldn’t be known for another week.  The donor who turned out to be Doré gave more on Feb. 7 as
Santorum swept primary contests in Colorado, Missouri and
 Minnesota , Friess said in the interview. The sum of that check
won’t be known until disclosure reports are released next month.  Doré’s check to the pro-Santorum group appears to be, by a
factor of 20, the energy executive’s largest foray into
political spending, a review of FEC, Center for Responsive
Politics, and Louisiana campaign finance data shows.  Few Past Donations  In March 2010, Doré contributed $50,000 to the  Republican
Governors Association . Doré also has given at least $30,000 to
two-term Louisiana Republican Governor Jindal’s campaigns since
his unsuccessful bid in 2003, Louisiana campaign finance reports
show.  The Center for Responsive Politics lists at least $7,200 in
Doré contributions to Republican Louisiana Representative
Charles Boustany Jr. since 2007.  He also has given to Democrats, including $28,500 in
February 2008 to the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee,
and $4,600 to Louisiana Senator  Mary Landrieu  in 2007 and 2008,
the data show.  The 69-year-old  Lake Charles , Louisiana, resident made his
fortune with Global Industries Ltd, an oilfield construction
service company he started in the 1970s, according to a
biography posted on the Horatio Alger Association website. Doré
was one of 10 recipients in 2000 of the award, which recognizes
people who have overcome adversity to become successful. Other
recipients that year included actor Tom Selleck and fellow
energy mogul  Philip Anschutz .  Overcoming Obstacles  The oldest of five children, Doré grew up in a two-bedroom
house with no hot water in a small Louisiana town, according to
the biography.  Doré said the award “brings with it a commitment that I
will never forget the road from which I have come, and brings
with it the obligation to help young people burdened by
adversities similar to mine.”  He won the group’s 2011 Norman Vincent Peale Award for
exceptional humanitarian contributions to society. Among his
charitable contributions was a $500,000 gift to build a new
football stadium for Pineville-based Louisiana College,
according to the local paper, the Daily Town Talk.  Energy Background  In 2006, he retired as head of Global Industries, based in
Carlyss, Louisiana, after growing it into an international
business employing 8,000 people, according to the biography. He
leads closely-held Doré Energy Inc., which is described as an
oil and gas exploration company in Lake Charles. He collected
from Global about $1 million in salary and stock in 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Santorum’s campaign won’t disclose Doré’s ties to the
candidate. Stuart Roy, a spokesman for the Red, White and Blue
Fund, said in an e-mail that he doesn’t discuss donors. Hogan Gidley, a Santorum spokesman, didn’t return calls or e-mails.  The former senator worked in 2010 as a consultant for
 Consol Energy Inc. (CNX) , a coal and natural gas producer based in
Canonsburg, Pennsylvania, a job that paid him $142,500,
according to a financial disclosure report filed in August with
the FEC.  Santorum, like the other three Republican candidates, has
frequently talked about the need to drill for natural gas and
expand offshore drilling, saying Democratic President  Barack Obama  hasn’t been aggressive enough in his energy policies.  Donors Don’t Tell  Fred Wertheimer , president of Democracy 21, a Washington
campaign finance overhaul advocacy group, said even donors who
explain their support of a candidate aren’t revealing all.  “We can never know for sure what motivation is inside the
head of a million-dollar donor,” he said. “What we do know is
that a million-dollar contribution provides the opportunity to
purchase corrupting influence over an officeholder’s government
decisions.”  Friess, who has given at least $1 million in several
installments, has been the most vocal among the big givers in
this election cycle, appearing on television interviews and even
on stage with Santorum at campaign events.  He and Santorum’s third largest donor, John Templeton Jr.,
who has contributed $265,000 to the Red White and Blue Fund,
have a history of supporting Santorum.  History With Donors  In 2006, as Santorum fought for a Senate re-election that
he ultimately lost, Friess gave $250,000 and Templeton gave
$630,000 to a group that ran television ads highlighting his
efforts on welfare-to-work legislation.  Two years earlier, Templeton included Santorum in a half-
hour video that he produced for $150,000 and distributed to
churches, mostly in swing-state  Ohio . It described the Christian
faiths of then-President  George W. Bush , Santorum and then-
Georgia Senator Zell Miller, a Democrat. Templeton didn’t return
phone calls requesting comment.  A former surgeon who lives in Bryn Mawr,  Pennsylvania ,
Templeton runs the John Templeton Foundation, a philanthropy
that provides grants in the areas of religion, science, 
economics, and character education. Templeton is the namesake
son of a successful mutual fund manager who established the 
foundation.  Templeton has given at least $1.7 million to candidates and
political causes since 2003, largely to the Republican Governors
Association and the Republican State Leadership Committee,
according to the Center for Responsive Politics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  