-- Save the Oscars With Live Voting and Hindsight: Virginia Postrel
-- B y   V i r g i n i a   P o s t r e l
-- 2012-02-24T00:02:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/save-oscars-with-live-voting-and-hindsight-commentary-by-virginia-postrel.html
Sunday night’s  Academy Awards
ceremony  faces the real possibility of ratings humiliation. The
Oscar telecast will almost certainly draw a smaller TV audience
than the Feb. 12 Grammy Awards.  True, Whitney Houston’s death the day before boosted Grammy
viewership to more than  39 million . But that’s only part of the
equation. The Oscar ceremony is gradually losing viewers.  In only two of the past five years -- and five of the past
10 -- has its U.S. audience topped 40 million, according to
 Nielsen Co . (Last year’s Oscar show attracted 37.9 million
viewers.) By contrast, from 1990 to 2002, the audience never
dropped below 40 million, and it swelled to 55 million in 1998,
when the monster hit “Titanic” won Best Picture and 10 other
awards.  The downturn isn’t inevitable. American TV viewers love
competitions. “American Idol,” “Dancing With the Stars,” and
football account for eight of the  top 10  regularly scheduled
programs. This year’s  Super Bowl  was the  most-watched  TV show in
U.S. history, with 111.3 million viewers, beating the record set
by the 2011 game.  Although TV audiences may be fragmenting, live events where
fans have a rooting interest are still major draws. They give
people something to argue about. They engage viewers’ passions.
They create must-see TV.  So the Oscar telecast has great potential. At No. 9, it was
still the only non-sports program to rank in last year’s top 10.
(It ranked 10th among younger viewers, ages 18 to 49 -- another
bad sign.) But the usual approach of looking for the perfect
emcee and tweaking the live performances -- this year’s show
promises a one-time-only  Cirque du Soleil  act -- won’t stop the
decline. The Oscars are about the movies, not podium jokes and
stage spectaculars. Generating audience enthusiasm requires more
radical steps. Here are a few ideas for the Academy of Motion
Picture Arts & Sciences, all designed to engage moviegoers’
interests without sacrificing Oscar voters’ independent critical
judgment.  1) Split the Best Picture category into two, based on the
number of tickets sold.  The argument here is simple. More people watch the Oscars
when the nominees include beloved movies that the audience cares
about. The biggest audience of the past five years, 41.7
million, came in 2010 when the Best Picture nominees included
such box office hits as “Avatar,” “Up” and “The Blind Side.”
(“The Hurt Locker” won.) The biggest audience of the past
decade, 43.5 million, was in 2004, the year “The Lord of the
Rings: The Return of the King” won Best Picture. And, of course,
there was the famous year of “Titanic.”  As Hollywood historian Neal Gabler  notes , however, Academy
voters don’t like the movies that bring in the bucks, an
attitude that seems to have intensified in recent years. “They
are using the Oscars,” he suggests, “to stage a small protest
against the sorts of movies they feel we the audience
sadistically forces them to make.” The audience, in turn, stages
its own protest by staying away -- or watching the show only for
the evening gowns.  Expanding the number of Best Picture nominations to 10 in
2009 looked as though it might alleviate the problem. But this
year the Academy sabotaged that plan by implementing a  new
nomination system  of preferential voting. This process rewards
polarizing movies like “The Tree of Life” and “Extremely Loud &
Incredibly Close,” which few people saw,  many detested , and a
few adored.  Suppose, like the many journalism awards that divide
publications by circulation, the Oscars included a Best Picture
(less than 10 million tickets sold) and a Best Picture (10
million tickets or more). Add to that a Dec. 31 cutoff date for
counting tickets, which would encourage less crowding of Oscar-
worthy pictures in the waning weeks of the year.  For 2011, selling 10 million tickets at the  average ticket
price  of $7.93 puts a film in the  top 38  of the year. (An
alternative would be to borrow a concept from the  music industry 
and limit eligibility to the Top 40, regardless of ticket
sales.) Assuming no change in the release dates, two more-
compact Best Picture categories might yield something like the
following nominees:  Best Picture > 10 Million Tickets  “Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 2”
“Rise of the Planet of the Apes”
“The Help”
“Bridesmaids”
“Super 8”  Best Picture < 10 Million Tickets  “The Artist”
“The Descendants”
“Hugo”
“Midnight in Paris”
“Moneyball”
“War Horse”  If there had been two categories, it’s likely “The Girl
With the Dragon Tattoo” and “War Horse” wouldn’t have waited
until late December to open, giving them a shot at the 10
million-plus award.  These two slates of nominees would undoubtedly boost
ratings significantly, if only because of all the  Harry Potter 
fans. By drawing more viewers who actually spend money at the
box office, the change would also provide valuable exposure for
movies like “The Artist,” which have a small audience but are
genuinely entertaining. And, who knows, a process that rewards
ticket sales might remind Academy voters that a science-fiction
movie like “Rise of the Planet of the Apes” can be one of the
year’s best. (It’s as good as “The Artist,” and much more
haunting.)  2) Create a Hindsight Award for the Best Picture from 25 or
30 years ago. Nominees would be selected by the same process as
the current year’s Best Picture nominees, but from the earlier
year’s offerings.  What Gabler calls Hollywood’s “lust for respectability”
manifests itself in the Academy’s notorious slighting of
comedies and genre films, no matter how influential or well
made. Hence the recent shutout of the Harry Potter films or the
outrageous slighting of “The  Dark Knight .” The Hindsight Award
would give the Oscars a chance to rectify the most egregious
oversights. And, regardless of genre, current enthusiasms may
not pass the test of time. Looking back allows perspective and,
of course, sparks lively debate and, hence, audience interest.  Here, the list of nominees is more important than the
winner. (“Groundhog Day,” which received no Oscar nominations at
all after being released in 1993, may arguably be a better movie
than “Schindler’s List,” but it would never beat it in a vote.)
A Hindsight Award would allow Academy members and the TV
audience to revisit the best of the past. If such an award
existed this year, looking back to  1986  the list might not only
recognize such enduring popular favorites as “Ferris Bueller’s
Day Off” and “Aliens,” but remind audiences of why “Platoon”
(that year’s third-highest grossing movie) and “Hannah and Her
Sisters” were so celebrated in their day. And though David Lynch’s “Blue Velvet” and David Cronenberg’s “The Fly” are
probably still too outre for Academy sensibilities, they’d at
least warrant consideration -- and some critical discussion.  As for  1981 , the win by “Chariots of Fire” is one of the
most ridiculous in Oscar history and enough all by itself to
justify a Hindsight Award. In the academy’s defense, however,
that year’s nominees didn’t include that many enduring films,
and it’s quite possible that only “Raiders of the Lost Ark”
would reappear on a new list. The un-nominated classics of 1981
range from “Mad Max 2: The Road Warrior” to  “My Dinner with
Andre,”  “Body Heat” to “Stripes.” (Bill Murray vehicles often
look good in hindsight.)  3) Add campaign speeches and live voting. “ American Idol ”
and sports events share an appeal the Oscars lack: Something is
happening that affects the outcome while the viewers are
actually watching. Movie performances can’t be live, of course,
but the ceremony could include a real-time element of argument
and judging.  Here the Hindsight Award provides an ideal opportunity.
Give each nominated film’s producers a fixed length of time to
make its case with clips and an on-stage advocate. Although
movie makers might prefer the comfort of showing only a video,
requiring the advocate adds the compelling immediacy of a real
person. It also poses an intriguing strategic question: Who
would be the most persuasive representative? For real drama,
instead of reading prepared statements, the advocates might
appear in a debate format, answering questions from a moderator.  After the presentations, the live audience would vote -- a
radical departure from Oscar tradition. As a new category, the
Hindsight Award need not conform to the requirement that every
far-flung academy member have a chance to vote. Instead, all
5,765 members could participate by choosing the nominees. To
vote on the Hindsight Best Picture, you would have to attend the
ceremony, a requirement that favors people -- both academy
members and other guests -- associated with films up for Oscars,
adding a certain nervous energy to the process.  Limiting the vote to those present would undoubtedly strike
some members as unfair. But you can say that about the Oscars
themselves. They  will never be fair. But they could be more
interesting.  (Virginia Postrel is a Bloomberg View columnist. She is the
author of “The Future and Its Enemies” and “The Substance of
Style,” and is writing a book on glamour. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  Read more online opinion from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Virginia Postrel in  Los Angeles  at  vp@dynamist.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 