-- HSBC Net Income Set to Rise With Standard Chartered Fueled by Asia Growth
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-02-24T03:56:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/hsbc-net-income-set-to-rise-with-standard-chartered-fueled-by-asia-growth.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Standard
Chartered Plc, Britain’s two best-performing bank stocks last
year, may say full-year profit rose as growth in Asia eclipsed
the stagnating U.K. economy.  HSBC may next week say earnings climbed 24 percent to $16.3
billion from the year-earlier period, helped by an accounting
gain on the revaluation of its own debt, according to the median
estimate of 19 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Net income at
Standard Chartered will probably climb 9 percent to $4.73
billion, according to the median estimate of 17 analysts.  Standard Chartered’s increase in revenue may surpass HSBC
because the latter is still shrinking its U.S. division and
trying to reduce costs by retreating from less profitable
markets, analysts said. Standard Chartered is also more focused
on  Asia : three-quarters of its assets are in the region,
compared with 27 percent for HSBC, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. More than half of HSBC’s Asian assets are in Hong Kong,
where the bank was founded in 1865.  Standard Chartered is “proportionately more exposed to
Asia and  emerging markets  and their sales may be helped by their
exposure to those markets,” said  Simon Willis , an analyst at
Daniel Stewart Securities Plc in London who rates both lenders a
buy. “Our preference is with Standards over HSBC.”  Asia Opportunities  Officials at the banks declined to comment before they
report results. London-based bank HSBC is scheduled to publish
earnings on Feb. 27 at 8.15 a.m. local time and its competitor
on Feb. 29 at 4.30 a.m.  London  time.  Standard Chartered fell 18 percent in 2011, valuing it at
1.5 times the value of its assets. HSBC fell 25 percent in the
year, valuing it at its book value, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. European lenders trade at about 1.05 times their
book value. Half of the analysts that track Standard Chartered
rate it a “buy” compared with 60 percent for HSBC.  “Standard Chartered is best-exposed to the growth
opportunities of Asia,” said Espirito Santo analyst Shailesh Raikundlia in a note to clients on Feb 6. “Although both banks
will continue to outperform their European peers in terms of
growth, we expect Standard Chartered’s growth to outpace that of
HSBC.”  Standard Chartered’s revenue will rise 10 percent to $19.4
billion in 2012 from 2011, while at HSBC the same measure will
fall 1.1 percent to $70.8 billion, Bloomberg estimates show.  Falling Loan Demand  HSBC rose 0.9 percent to HK$70.80 as of 11:43 a.m. in  Hong
Kong , while Standard Chartered gained 0.8 percent to HK$199.60.  Standard Chartered has 18 percent of its assets in Hong
Kong, 14 percent in  Singapore , 11 percent in Korea, 7 percent in
 India  and 26 percent in the Middle East and other parts of Asia,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Even though HSBC
focuses on emerging markets, about two thirds of its assets are
in  Europe  and North America, compared with about 21 percent for
Standard Chartered in 2010. HSBC’s full-year revenue in Hong
Kong will drop 2.6 percent to $14.57 billion on falling loan
demand, said  Ian Gordon , an analyst at Investec Plc in London in
a note to investors this month.  HSBC has about $5.5 billion of holdings of peripheral
European sovereign debt, according to Steven Chan, an analyst at
Citic Securities International Co. Ltd. By comparison,  Standard
Chartered (STAN)  has “no direct sovereign exposure to Portugal,
Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain,” it said on Aug. 3.  “The market still has concerns over HSBC’s exposure to the
sovereign debt” of these nations, Chan said in a note to
clients on Feb. 10.  Subprime Costs  HSBC may face additional costs from U.S. subprime lending.
Some U.S. states have introduced moratoriums on foreclosures,
which added to the lender’s third-quarter provisions, HSBC said
in November.  “They’re seeing that if people can default and stay in
their homes, there’s very little incentive for overstretched
borrowers to pay their mortgages,” said  Bruce Packard , an
analyst at Seymour Pierce in London. “It’s an overhang.”  The lender has so far set aside more than $65 billion for
souring loans in North America following its purchase of
Household International Inc. in 2003.  HSBC Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver  in August
announced plans last year to cut costs by $3.5 billion over the
next two years to boost profit.  Asset Sales  The bank has announced sales of divisions and assets valued
at $4.89 billion since in May, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. HSBC has sold units in  Japan , South  Korea  and
 Thailand . In January, it agreed to sell operations in Costa
Rica, El Salvador and  Honduras  to Colombia’s Banco Davivienda SA
for $801 million to focus on bigger markets in  Latin America .  HSBC will sell its U.S. card and retail services unit to
Capital One Financial Corp., who will pay a premium of about
$2.6 billion premium to the division’s loans, HSBC said on Aug.
10. The deal may be completed in the second quarter, Capital One
said on Feb. 8.  Gulliver in November said the bank’s return on equity, a
measure of profitability, would be at the “softer end” of its
12 percent to 15 percent target by 2013.  “Unfortunately, for Stuart and his owners, even if he does
not abandon his targets, we fear that, at the very least, he
will be forced to defer them,” because the bank is “too
reliant” on investment banking, said Gordon. “We forecast a
return on equity in 2013 of just 10.4 percent.”  Market Retreat  Pretax profit at HSBC’s investment bank’s may fall 22
percent to $7.19 billion, according to Morgan Stanley analyst
Chris Manners. Last year, the division has accounted for 50
percent of HSBC’s pretax profit, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Barclays Plc, the U.K.’s third-largest bank by assets,
said this month pretax profit at its securities unit fell 32
percent to 2.97 billion pounds ($4.66 billion).  Gulliver said in August he will eliminate 30,000 roles by
the end of 2013, withdrawing from some markets, while hiring
people in Asia. Standard chartered said in December it would add
2,000 people.  Both banks have said investors have asked them to consider
relocating outside the U.K. amid increased regulation. The
proposals by the U.K. government-sponsored Independent
Commission on Banking to make banks carry more loss-absorbing
capital would cost HSBC $2.5 billion, according to the bank.  ‘Complicated Distraction’  HSBC Chairman  Douglas Flint  told parliamentarians on Nov.
23 that if it relocated, it would choose a place where it
already had a “big presence,” though the question was still
hypothetical. Standard Chartered CEO  Peter Sands  said in
December moving would be a “complicated distraction.”  The U.K.’s Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc yesterday
posted a loss of 2 billion pounds on impairments in Ireland,
writing down Greek debt and compensating customers for
improperly sold insurance. Lloyds Banking Group Plc is estimated
to report a 2.41 billion-pound loss for 2011, according to a
Bloomberg survey of 14 analysts.  The following is a table of analysts’ median estimates in
millions of dollars. The column on the right shows the number of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  