-- HSBC Lowest Libor Rates Diverge From Credit Indicators: Corporate Finance
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2012-02-24T09:50:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/hsbc-s-lowest-libor-rates-diverge-from-bonds-corporate-finance.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s biggest
bank, says the  interest rate  it pays for short-term dollar loans
is about the lowest ever relative to rivals whose bonds are
performing better.  HSBC says it can borrow at 0.26 percent for three months in
dollars in its submission for the  London interbank offered rate ,
compared with 0.491 for the composite, which is calculated for
the British Bankers’ Association. The 23 basis-point gap is four
basis points off a record and contrasts with the bond market
where relative yields on HSBC’s notes increased in the past six
months while those of fellow Libor contributors  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  narrowed.  The contrast between HSBC’s daily submissions for Libor and
other measures in credit markets comes at a time when the
integrity of the benchmark for $360 trillion of securities
worldwide is being called into question by regulators including
the U.S.  Justice Department . London-based HSBC is one of 12
banks being investigated by Swiss authorities, while  Canada ’s
Competition Bureau said the firm may have conspired to influence
yen Libor to profit on derivatives.  “The gap between HSBC’s submissions and the other banks
seems unusually wide, and there’s no obvious reason,” said
 Simon Adamson , an analyst at fixed-income research firm
CreditSights Inc. in London. “In terms of its credit standing,
HSBC is better placed than most of the other contributors, but
that doesn’t fully explain why there’s such a big gap. It’s very
marked.”  Daily Survey  Libor is calculated from a daily survey carried out for the
BBA, in which the world’s biggest banks are asked the rate
they’re charged to borrow over a variety of short-term
maturities in currencies including dollars, euros and yen.  Shani Halstead, an HSBC spokeswoman in  London , declined to
comment on her bank’s submissions to the benchmark.  Brian Mairs ,
a spokesman for the BBA, said the association is “committed to
retaining the reputation and integrity” of Libor.  Three-month dollar Libor has declined or remained unchanged
each day since Jan. 4, and is now the lowest since Nov. 18,
according to BBA data.  HSBC’s submission to the three-month dollar rate is the
lowest of all 18 banks on the dollar Libor panel and has been
falling all year after plateauing at the end of November. Both
HSBC’s rate and composite Libor rose to as high as 5.73 percent
in September 2007, at the beginning of the deepest financial
crisis since the Great Depression.  Rabobank Submission  HSBC’s three-month dollar submission compares with that of
Utrecht, Netherlands-based  Rabobank Groep (RABO) , the top-rated
privately owned lender, which along with  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  in
 Frankfurt  posts the third-lowest rate at 0.44 percent. Zurich-
based Credit Suisse is second-lowest at 0.435 percent, BBA data
show.  The gap between the borrowing costs reported by HSBC and
JPMorgan, the third-largest deposit-taker in the U.S., is about
the widest ever.  JPMorgan reports 0.46 percent to the Libor panel, BBA data
show. That’s the sixth-lowest figure and 20 basis points more
than the London-based lender. The gap between the two reached a
record 23.5 basis points on Jan. 27.  Moody’s Investors Service  rates  HSBC at Aa2, a level higher
than JPMorgan, while  Standard & Poor’s  grades the U.K. lender at
A+, again one step higher than its New York counterpart.  Rating Cut  S&P lowered HSBC’s long-term credit grade by one step from
AA- in November, one of 14 of the world’s biggest banks the firm
downgraded after changing its ratings criteria. S&P said it
views HSBC’s business position as “very strong” relative to
U.K. peers, describing it as “one of the most diverse global
banking groups, whether measured by products, markets, or
geographies.”  Fitch Ratings , which in December affirmed HSBC’s long-term
AA grade, two levels above S&P’s rating, cited the bank’s
“geographically diversified business model,” and its
“conservative liquidity and funding positions.”  HSBC’s P-1 short-term rating at Moody’s is the same as that
of JPMorgan, Rabobank and Credit Suisse. The U.K. lender has an
A-1 short-term rating at S&P, the same as JPMorgan and Credit
Suisse. Short-term grades are the key gauges of credit on the
money markets.  HSBC, scheduled to publish 2011 full-year  earnings  on Feb.
27, reported losses on consumer loans in the U.S., the result of
its acquisition of subprime mortgage lender  Household
International  in 2003.  Profit Falls  Pretax profit at its  investment banking unit  fell 53
percent to about $1 billion in the third quarter of 2011 from a
year earlier, the lender said Nov. 9. Bad loan provisions
increased to $3.89 billion from $3.15 billion, an increase HSBC
attributed to its U.S. unit. Higher-than-expected losses in the
U.S. are among the risks to the lender’s ratings, Fitch said.  The 23 basis-point gap between HSBC’s submissions for
three-month dollar Libor and the composite rate compares with a
record 27 basis points on Jan. 23. The difference has expanded
from less than one basis point as recently as May.  HSBC’s quote for dollar Libor contrasts with those in
currencies such as the  euro , where it’s in the middle of the
pack with a figure of 0.935 percent, and the pound, where at 0.9
percent it posts the joint second-lowest rate after  Deutsche
Bank (DBK) .  Bond Performance  HSBC’s submissions also aren’t reflected in the  bond
market . The extra yield over benchmarks that investors demand to
hold HSBC’s debt widened 18 basis points, or 0.18 percentage
point, to 281 basis points since Aug. 22, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Global Corporates, Banking index. That
compares with a six basis-point tightening to 264 on Credit
Suisse debentures and a 13 basis-point drop to 225 for JPMorgan
notes.  The cost to insure bonds issued by HSBC using credit-
default swaps has increased 54 percent to 135 basis points since
the end of July. Swaps on JPMorgan rose 22 percent to 117 basis
points, while contracts tied to Credit Suisse’s debt increased
51 percent to 152 basis points, according to CMA, which is owned
by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point on
a contract protecting 10 million euros ($13.3 million) of debt
for five years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  Libor is a benchmark for securities with a floating rate of
interest, from mortgages in the U.K. to interest-rate swaps. A
change in the gauge of even one basis point can affect millions
of dollars of payments.  Libor Probe  UBS AG (UBSN) , the biggest Swiss bank, is cooperating with
authorities investigating the alleged manipulation of Libor, a
probe which is likely to renew calls for an overhaul of how the
benchmark is calculated. Following its disclosure that employees
colluded to rig the rate, regulators in Canada alleged that
banks communicated with each other and through brokers to
manipulate yen Libor.  Britain’s Financial Services Authority is investigating
“significant cross-border allegations in regards to Libor,”
while the U.S. Justice Department has subpoenaed banks.  The current probes aren’t the first. At the height of the
financial crisis in 2008, there were complaints that panel
members may have submitted inaccurate information for Libor and
that their rates didn’t reflect borrowing costs. That prompted
 ICAP Plc (ICAP) , the biggest broker of transactions between lenders, to
bring in the New York Funding Rate as an alternative.  Libor rates are “completely false markets nowadays,” said
Mark Ostwald, a strategist at Monument Securities Ltd. in
London. “They reflect a market which isn’t really a market at
all. Libor rates are only indicated, not transacted. That’s a
fundamental problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  