-- HSBC Private Boosts Dollar Holdings to Offset Emerging-Market Selloff Risk
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-02-24T13:39:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/hsbc-private-favors-treasuries-over-emerging-market-assets-on-selloff-risk.html
HSBC Private Bank is bolstering
holdings of U.S. bonds and stocks to mitigate the risks of  
another sudden emerging-market selloff.  The private banking unit of  Europe ’s largest lender is
deploying 60 percent of its funds in dollar-denominated assets,
 Arjuna Mahendran , Singapore-based head of investment strategy
for  Asia , said in an interview yesterday. That includes assets
in the  Hong Kong  dollar, which is pegged to the greenback. The 
remaining 40 percent is in developing nations, he said. U.S. 
government notes due in 10 years or more returned 28 percent in 
dollar terms in the past year, the third-best performance among 
144 sovereign bond indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European 
Federation of Financial Analyst Societies.  “The strategy is to build up some insurance against nasty
events like what happened in September when there was a sudden,
massive risk-off,” said Mahendran, whose bank had total client
assets under management of $556 billion as of June 30. “I’m
more optimistic about the U.S. in the medium term than I am 
about emerging markets. They’ve come to the stage now where they 
have run out of capacity to grow very fast.”  Inflows have returned to developing markets in 2012 after
the  Federal Reserve  predicted on Jan. 25 that U.S. borrowing
costs will stay near zero through 2014 and the  European Central
Bank  pledged in December to offer commercial banks unlimited
cash for three years. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index jumped 16
percent this year after losing 20 percent in 2011.  Spreads Narrowing  More than $9 trillion was wiped from the  value  of global
stocks in August and September as Europe’s debt crisis and a
U.S. slowdown damped appetite for emerging-market assets.
Developing Asian currencies plummeted, with  India ’s rupee losing
16 percent in the second half and  South Korea ’s won weakening
8.1 percent.  Demand for higher-yielding bonds in developing nations has
driven down the premiums investors demand to hold the debt this
year. The  difference  in yield over U.S. Treasuries shrank to
3.25 percentage points on Feb. 23 from last year’s high of 4.43
percentage points on Oct. 4, according to the EMBI Plus  Index (MXEF) 
compiled by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  While HSBC Private is allocating more funds for investing
in dollar-denominated assets, the bank still likes emerging-
market bonds with relatively high credit ratings and stocks of
Chinese banks and Hong Kong’s property developers, according to
Mahendran. The bank also also favors shares of Taiwanese and
South Korean technology companies, he said.  ‘Barbell’ Strategy  “This is what you call a barbell because they are so
extreme in terms of positioning in the risk spectrum,”
Mahendran said. “U.S. Treasuries is the only way you can
diversify. You have everything that’s risky out here which is
making money now and then you build up a position in the safe
assets on the other side.”  The global economic recovery could stall as a flood of
money going into  China  and other developing nations may reignite
inflation and create asset bubbles, Mahendran said.  “It’s so difficult to distinguish where risk lies anymore
because liquidity is swamping everything,” he said. “We’re not
really in charted waters.”  The view of  HSBC Private Bank  contrasts with that of
Templeton Global Bond Fund’s San Mateo, California-based
portfolio manager,  Michael Hasenstab , who said this month that
he is keeping the dollar at a lower weighting than benchmark
indexes and is maintaining bullish wagers on assets in Asia and
parts of Central Europe and  Latin America .  Pimco Favoring Treasuries  Brian Baker, the Hong Kong-based chief executive officer at
Pimco Asia Pte, a unit of the manager of the world’s biggest
bond fund, said this week that Treasuries are a good way to
protect investors’ portfolios from extreme volatility.  The People’s Bank of China cut  reserve requirements  for
major banks twice since November to support growth. The median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey predicts growth in
the world’s second-largest economy will slow to 8.5 percent in
2012 from 9.2 percent last year. The  Reserve Bank  of India cut
the amount lenders must hold as reserves by 50 basis points to
5.5 percent last month, loosening monetary policy for the first
time since 2009.  There’s a limit to how much “China and India in
particular” can stimulate their economies, Mahendran said.
“Even though China is cutting reserve ratios, at the first sign
of inflation or asset bubbles, it will probably pull back.”  Rising oil prices are also a risk for  emerging markets ,
Mahendran said. Crude prices reached $108.74 a barrel in  New
York  yesterday, the highest level in more than nine months.  “In rallies like now, you basically buy everything that’s
risky,” Mahendran said. “The frightening thing is they are all
correlated. If you want diversification there’s only one asset.
A nice collection of Triple-A, rock-solid Treasuries and U.S.
multinational long bonds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  