-- Scene This Week: Truffle Popcorn for Cindy Sherman, Mughals Art
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-02-24T16:29:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/scene-this-week-per-se-popcorn-for-cindy-sherman-mughals-rangers-goalie.html
Cindy Sherman ’s gallery, Metro
Pictures, went all out Tuesday to celebrate her retrospective at
the Museum of  Modern Art .  As a crowd of young Sherman doppelgangers began to swarm
the exhibition (which opens to the public on Sunday), the artist
escaped to one of the city’s finest restaurants, Thomas Keller’s
Per Se.  Metro Pictures took over the eatery for the evening,
inviting artists, collectors, lenders, friends and family for
dinner and dancing, said co-owner Helene Winer. They included
Eric Fischl, April Gornik, Robert Longo, Louise Lawler,
Elizabeth Peyton, Michael Stipe, Molly Ringwald,  Lou Reed  and
 Laurie Anderson .  Witty dishes, such as fried chicken “nuggets” and the
“BLT” (the quotations are Keller’s) fit the artist known for
her many guises. The advantage of partying at Per Se is that you
know everything on the menu will be a hit. This one included
white truffle popcorn, skewers of spiced Elysian Fields Farm
lamb, and butterscotch caramels.  Mughal Delhi  On Wednesday, the  Asia Society  transported a group of
patrons to a time when art and poetry flourished in northern
 India . The occasion was a tour of the exhibition “Princes and
Painters in Mughal Delhi, 1707-1857,” led by its curators,
William Dalrymple and Yuthika Sharma.  Dalrymple, a historian, author and critic, described Brits
who were so enamored of the ruling Mughals they gave up pork,
took Mughal wives and became great patrons of their art. It
ended badly, though, with the Brits kicking out the Mughals.  Guests wielded magnifying glasses to view the miniature
art.  “The Mughals painted with single-hair squirrel brushes,”
Sharma, an art historian, said casually, as if that were not an
amazing fact.  Last night brought the Hebrew Free Loan Society’s Next
Generation benefit on the roof of the Empire Hotel. The
organization provides interest-free loans for education, small
businesses and other needs of recent immigrants.  Eitan Hochster, who works in private equity at Invus
Financial Advisors, and other volunteers remodeled the  student
loans , to determine long-term costs under various assumptions.  “Modeling is a normal work pattern for us, but not
necessarily for the staff,” he said.  Nearby two friends fought over a hockey stick signed by
Rangers goalie Henrik Lundqvist, a raffle prize.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 