-- SEC’s Aguilar Says Companies Should Report Political Spending
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-02-24T16:49:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/sec-s-aguilar-says-companies-should-report-political-spending.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission should require companies to disclose their spending
on political campaigns, said SEC Commissioner  Luis Aguilar .  “Investors are not receiving adequate disclosure, and as
the investor’s advocate, the Commission should act swiftly to
rectify the situation,” said Aguilar, a Democrat on the five-
member commission, in remarks prepared for a  Washington 
securities-law conference today. “Withholding information from
shareholders is a fundamental deprivation that undermines the
securities regulatory framework.”  Aguilar said that the 2010 Supreme Court decision that
permitted undisclosed corporate campaign spending has left
shareholders “often in the dark as to whether the companies
they own, or contemplate owning, are making political
expenditures.” He pointed out shareholders at 50 companies
requested in 2011 that political spending be put up for
stockholder votes.  “Those issues are obviously getting a lot of attention,”
SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  told reporters today. She said most
large companies already disclose some information on political
involvement and the agency will consider public petitions on
whether to require such disclosures “at some point.”  A  study  released in October by the Washington-based Center
for Political Accountability found that 55 members of the
Standard & Poor’s 100 Index voluntarily disclosed to
shareholders direct political spending. In November, the
 California Public Employees’ Retirement System  approved
 guidelines  calling on companies in which the largest U.S. public
pension invests to disclose their political contributions
annually.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  