-- Serbian Dinar Weakens Past 110 Per Euro for First Time Ever
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-02-24T16:58:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/serbian-dinar-weakens-past-110-per-euro-for-first-time-ever-1-.html
Serbia ’s dinar weakened past 110 per
euro for the first time as investors are concerned the
government will ignore public-finance risks ahead of spring
general elections.  The dinar traded at 110.65 per euro as of 4:30 pm. in
Belgrade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The decline
was marked by “heft” interbank trades, said analysts at
Zagreb-based Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank d.d. including Hrvoje Stojic,
in a note to clients.  The central bank sold 30 million euros ($40 million) to
slow the currency’s decline, it said on its website. It  set  the
official  exchange rate  for Feb. 27 at 110.1939 to the euro.  A dispute with the  International Monetary Fund  over
government finances led to a freeze in Serbia’s precautionary
loan program and raised the specter of past bouts of hyper-
inflation during the 1990s, a decade of Balkan wars and
international sanctions. Investors are also concerned the
government will step up spending before elections to spark
growth and employment.  “The problem is that the level of 110 is psychological,”
said Aleksandar Jaredic, head of the Treasury division at the
Belgrade-based unit of  Oesterreichische Volksbank (VBPS)  AG.  The central bank, following its inflation targeting rules,
acts to smooth excessive daily oscillations in the dinar
exchange rate, without stopping the trend.  Newspaper Politika cited central bank Governor Dejan Soskic
today as saying that the Belgrade-based Narodna Banka Srbije
would not want to “intervene” just to help “speculators”
close their dinar positions cheaply.  Stalled Program  The dinar has been declining since Feb. 9 when Prime
Minister Mirko Cvetkovic agreed with the International Monetary
Fund to freeze a $1.3 billion precautionary loan program until a
new government takes office after parliamentary elections due by
early May.  The lender postponed the approval of the first policy
review under the program when it discovered that Serbia’s 2012
budget exceeds agreed public borrowing ceilings, after the
government already slipped on public debt and budget deficit
targets in 2011.  The dinar is now 6 percent weaker than a year ago,
according to central bank data, and 3 percent cheaper than at
the start of 2012.  Investors see the absence of an IMF program as critical.
 Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  said this week risks point to dinar levels
past 110 to the euro.  Benoit Anne , emerging-markets strategist at  Societe
Generale SA (GLE)  in  London , said today that “there’s too much
uncertainty” at the moment, after his bank wrote on Feb. 23
that “we probably need to wait for further visibility of those
risks before we can turn bullish on RSD again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crosby at 
 acrosby1@bloomberg.net  