-- Serbian President Hails Nameplate Accord on Kosovo in EU Push
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   J o n e s   H a y d e n
-- 2012-02-24T15:36:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/serbian-president-hails-nameplate-accord-on-kosovo-in-eu-push.html
Serbian President  Boris Tadic  said
his policy of aspiring to join the European Union and not giving
up on  Kosovo  passed a “historic test” after a pact was reached
on a nameplate for its former province in regional events.  Belgrade and Pristina negotiators agreed today in Brussels
that Kosovo’s nameplate will have a reference to a United
Nations Security Council Resolution 1244, which ended the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization’s 78-day bombing of Serbia in 1999
and which guarantees Serbia’s sovereignty over Kosovo.  That “means Kosovo will not be represented as an
independent state” and serves as proof that the “policy of
‘both  Europe  and Kosovo’ has passed the historic test,” Tadic
said in a statement e-mailed by his office.  Serbia  has vowed never to recognize Kosovo’s secession,
after the breakaway province unilaterally declared independence
in 2008. Kosovo has been recognized by 82 countries including
the U.S. and 22 of the EU’s 27 member states.  The “agreement will allow for Kosovo to participate and
sign new agreements on its own account and to speak for itself
at all regional meetings,” the EU said in a press statement
from Brussels. The EU will start preparing a feasibility study
for a Stabilization and Association Agreement with Kosovo, it
said.  The agreement is an important step in Serbia’s efforts to
become a candidate for EU membership. The bloc’s leaders will
discuss its bid next week, just a couple of months before Serbia
holds parliamentary elections due by early May. The candidacy
was the top promise Tadic’s ruling  Democratic Party  made in 2008
when the government took office.  The Balkan nation of 7.2 million people has been trying to
get closer to the EU since the fall of former leader  Slobodan
Milosevic  in 2000. Over the past decade, Serbia has relied on
the EU for donations, trade and investment to recover from wars,
sanctions and economic mismanagement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jones Hayden in Brussels at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net 
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  