-- Singapore’s GIC Raises Xstrata Stake 20%, Trims Glencore
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2012-02-24T15:28:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/singapore-s-gic-raises-xstrata-stake-20-trims-glencore.html
Government of Singapore Investment
Corp ., which manages more than $100 billion, has raised its
stake in  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  by 20 percent and trimmed its holding in
 Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  since the companies said they planned
to combine.  The sovereign fund has increased its Xstrata stake to 29.05
million shares from 24.1 million shares since Feb. 8, the day
after Glencore offered to acquire the shares in Xstrata it
doesn’t already own for $37.6 billion, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. GIC cut its Glencore stake by 21 percent to 33.2
million shares.  Glencore, the world’s largest publicly traded commodity
supplier, on Feb. 7 announced jointly with Xstrata, an owner of
coal, copper and zinc mines, an agreement to combine under a so-
called merger of equals in the biggest-ever mining deal worth
23.9 billion pounds ($37.6 billion).  Xstrata shareholders, including Fidelity Worldwide
Investment, Standard Life Plc and Schroders Plc, opposed the
deal, asking Glencore to raise the offer of 2.8 of its shares
for each one in Xstrata.  Investors holding 16.48 percent of Xstrata can succeed in
voting to block the deal. That’s because Glencore won’t be
allowed to vote its 34 percent stake in Xstrata, according to
the U.K.’s takeover code, putting the final decision into the
hands of the shareholders who control the rest of the company.  Mandarine Gestion, another Xstrata  shareholder , also wants
the offer to be raised, said Yohan Salleron, who helps manage
the 950 million-euro Mandarine Valuer fund in Paris. It reduced
its Xstrata holding by half to 2.5 percent of the fund after the
proposed merger, he said.  “This offer is not fair for Xstrata shareholders,”
Salleron said over the phone. “I think Glencore will have to
improve the offer about 5 or 10 percent and that’s why we still
have a holding.”  The offer represents a deal premium of about 8 percent
based on Glencore’s average price in the 20 days before the deal
was first reported Feb. 2. That would be the second-lowest
premium for any mining deal worth more than $5 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  -- With assistance from Kevin Crowley in  London . Editors: Alex
Devine, Tony Barrett  To contact the reporters on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  