-- Sinofert Seeks Potash, Phosphate Mines to Meet China Food Demand
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-24T03:45:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/sinofert-seeks-potash-phosphate-mines-to-meet-china-food-demand.html
Sinofert Holdings Ltd. (297) , a unit of
China’s largest chemicals trader, is seeking to buy  potash  and
phosphate mines to meet fertilizer demand for improving crop
yields in the world’s most populous nation.  “We are looking at assets both inside and outside China,”
Senior Vice President Harry Yang said in an interview in
Beijing. “So far we haven’t found anything economically
workable. We’ll continue to keep our eyes open.”  World potash demand will rise 3 percent this year, leaving
a shortage, because of delays in commissioning new capacity,
according to the International Fertilizer Industry Association.
Sinofert, 22 percent owned by Saskatoon, Canada-based Potash
Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., aims to boost potash output as
China’s growing population and prosperity spurs demand for food.  China ’s farmers haven’t used enough potash over the years
to reach government-recommended nitrogen-phosphate-potash
levels, Senior Vice President Feng Mingwei said in the same
interview on Feb. 21. Potash, mined from deposits of salts laid
down in ancient seas and captured in rock layers, helps plants
to grow strong roots, resist disease and withstand droughts.  “The increase in potash usage will outpace nitrogen in
China,” Feng said.  Potash prices may gain 4.5 percent to $575 a metric ton in
the U.S. this year, compared with $380 in July 2010, and settle
at $520 in China and India, according to Credit Agricole
Securities USA Inc. IMF Canada potash export price, an industry
benchmark, climbed 29 percent to $475 last year.  Counter Bidder  Sinochem, the parent of Sinofert, was cited by analysts as
a probable counter bidder to  BHP (BHP)  Billiton Ltd.’s $40 billion
unsuccessful offer for Potash Corp., the world’s largest
fertilizer producer, in 2010. Canada rejected BHP’s bid, saying
it didn’t provide a “net benefit” to the country. Sinochem
also approached  Nufarm Ltd (NUF) .,  Australia ’s biggest supplier of
farm chemicals, in 2009 for a possible takeover, Nufarm said in
a statement in July 2009.  Potash Corp. isn’t opposed to foreign ownership, Chief
Executive Officer Bill Doyle said Feb. 14.  Potash output by China, the world’s biggest user, may rise
by as much as 2 million tons in five years from about 5 million
tons last year, Yang said. Imports may drop to 6 million tons
this year, the first decline in three years, from an estimated
6.5 million tons in 2011, because of high inventory, Gavin Ju, a
consultant at researcher CRU International Ltd., said last
month.  ‘Reasonable Inventory’  “China’s inventory is at a reasonable level,” Feng said.
“The global slowdown has affected potash importers such as
 Brazil  and India. But China is China. Ensuring a steady rise in
grain production is a basic national policy for China.”  Potash Corp. is among potash miners that have reduced
output since the end of last year as farmers and distributors
put off purchases in anticipation of lower prices. Potash Corp.
temporarily stopped production at some mines in the Canadian
province of Saskatchewan in the first quarter.  OAO  Uralkali (URKA) ,  Russia ’s biggest fertilizer maker, is ready
to cut production to prevent potash prices from falling, Chief
Financial Officer Victor Belyakov said in January. Mosaic Co.,
the largest U.S. potash producer, said on Feb. 3 it plans to cut
potash production by 20 percent through May because of lower
demand.  China’s ability to import more potash will be decided by
prices, Yang said. The country is negotiating potash prices with
suppliers, Feng said. While there are some price disparities,
Chinese prices won’t be higher than the rates reached between
 India , Brazil and the large suppliers, he said.  Belaruskali Buyer  Belarus’s state-controlled fertilizer maker Belaruskali,
which produces 15 percent of the world’s potash, is seeking a
buyer for a part of the government’s stake, according to a
Kommersant report that cited an official in Russian Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s administration.  “We don’t rule out the possibility,” Feng said, “There
are many changes going on within the company. We’ll wait until
we see the result of these changes.”  Sinofert holds an 8.9 percent of Qinghai Salt Lake Industry
Co., a Chinese producer, as its only stake in potash assets.
Sinochem has a 15 percent stake as the second-largest holder.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net ;
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  