-- Snowstorms, Cloud Cover Cause Air Delays in Eastern U.S.
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-02-24T17:58:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/snowstorms-cloud-cover-cause-air-delays-in-eastern-u-s-.html
Snowstorms, cloud cover and
tornadoes in the eastern half of the U.S. are causing air
traffic delays in Chicago, Atlanta and New York, according to
the  Federal Aviation Administration .  Delays of as much as two hours were reported at Chicago’s
O’Hare International Airport and more of than an hour at
LaGuardia Airport in New York, said Todd Lehmacher, a spokesman
for  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  Some flights in Atlanta were backed up
for 45 minutes or more, the FAA said.  “There is a storm up over northern Ohio that is laying down
a stripe of snow that is causing all the air traffic delays in
Chicago,” said Paul Walker, a meteorologist at  AccuWeather  Inc.
in State College, Pennsylvania. “Also associated with this
storm there will be a cold front sweeping through the
Southeast.”  Tornado watches were issued from West  Virginia  to Alabama,
where a school had its roof damaged by high winds, according to
the U.S. Storm Prediction Center in Norman, Oklahoma.  To the north, winter storm warnings and advisories stretch
from northern  Illinois  to northern Maine, the  National Weather
Service  said.  Environment Canada  issued snow warnings across
Ontario and Quebec, including Montreal, where 6 to 10 inches (15
to 25 centimeters) of snow may fall.  Chicago Snow  Four to 6 inches of snow fell in the Chicago area
overnight, Walker said. Snow showers may continue through the
day, according to the weather service. About 240 flights were
canceled at the city’s two major airports, the Chicago Aviation
Department said.  The southern part of the system may also bring severe
thunderstorms to coastal areas of Virginia,  North Carolina  and
South Carolina, the Storm Prediction Center said.  American Airlines canceled 31 O’Hare departures today,
while its American Eagle regional carrier grounded 27, said Tim Smith, a spokesman.  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  canceled 10 O’Hare
departures, said  Anthony Black , a spokesman for the Atlanta-
based carrier.  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , the world’s biggest
carrier, canceled 100 O’Hare departures, about a sixth of its
daily flights out of the airport, said Michael Trevino, a
spokesman.  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  grounded 26 departures from
Midway, with delays of as much as two hours, said  Brad Hawkins ,
a spokesman.  Delays of more than 90 minutes have also been reported at
Newark’s Liberty International Airport because of low ceilings,
according to the FAA.  East Coast Wind  Tomorrow, winds may gust from 45 to 50 miles (72 to 80
kilometers) per hour along the East Coast. A high wind watch has
been issued for  New York  and Long Island starting tonight into
tomorrow.  Wind advisories and warnings have also been issued for much
of the eastern U.S. from Massachusetts to Florida, according to
the weather service.  “These winds could bring down trees, power poles and lines
and make driving hazardous,” the agency said.  The winds may hinder air travel tomorrow as well, Walker
said by telephone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  