-- Snyder Predicts Romney Victory in Michigan Primary (Transcript)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   R o b i n   M e s z o l y
-- 2012-02-24T23:59:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/snyder-predicts-romney-victory-in-michigan-primary-transcript-.html
Michigan  Governor  Rick Snyder  said
in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital
with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend, that Mitt Romney will
likely emerge as the winner of the state’s Feb. 28 Republican
presidential primary.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the show with Michigan Governor Rick
Snyder. Thank you so much for coming in, governor.  RICK SNYDER: It’s great to be with you, Al.  HUNT: We’ll talk about the Michigan economy, I promise.
But, first, all political eyes are on the Wolverine State for
next Tuesday. Who’s going to win the Michigan primary?  SNYDER: Romney.  HUNT: Going away?  SNYDER: Well, it’s close.  HUNT: Yeah?  SNYDER: But he’s made a lot of progress off the last week
or so, in terms of the polling. And importantly, he’s getting an
opportunity now to get around Michigan and talk about what he’s
achieved and where he wants to head, and that’s the important
thing.  HUNT: Let’s head back to politics, just a couple Michigan
questions:  Detroit  a near basket case economically. How likely
is it that you will have to appoint an emergency manager to run
the city?  SNYDER: Well, I don’t want to have to. And we’re making
progress, working with the city, the mayor, the city council on
a consent agreement, which is basically an agreement between the
three parties to say, “Let’s work our way out of this in a more
positive way.”  HUNT: And you think you can avoid then -  SNYDER: I hope so. Again, that’s the goal, is I don’t want
to appoint an emergency manager.  HUNT: How soon do you have to make a decision?  SNYDER: We’re probably going to have about another 30-day
period here to get through that. The other thing is, it’s
interesting when people talk about Detroit -- Detroit has a lot
of great things going for it. The city is financially
challenged, but there’s such good news going on in Detroit that
it shouldn’t -  HUNT: It does.  SNYDER: - overwhelm that, and that’s one of the challenges
is to make sure we talk about the good things for -  HUNT: Culture, people and the Tigers.  SNYDER: Yeah.  HUNT: And the Lions.  SNYDER: Or the Lions and  Red Wings . But one of the nice
things is, there’s like 98 percent occupancy in midtown Detroit
now for apartments, with young people coming into the city. It’s
an appealing place for -  HUNT: Well, your state is recovering, too. You still have a
high unemployment rate, but it’s down a lot. Things have come
back. And yet some critics say now’s the time, you have a
decaying infrastructure, you know, K-12, you’re only kind of
returning the budgets to where they were before they were cut.
The  University of Michigan  system is challenged. Shouldn’t you
be investing now?  SNYDER: Well, we are. And we had a  budget surplus  this
year, and we’re investing that back, but we’re not just spending
money. That’s one of the challenges that, not being a career
politician, coming from the private sector, is too often people
just talk about spending money. We’re investing wisely, so we’re
talking about best practices, about watching real results for
real people, much like you would in the business world. That
needs to come to the public sector, and I believe we’re going to
be a leading state in making that happen.  HUNT: And part of your success story in the last year or
two, of course, has been the auto industry really has come back,
GM with the great profits. Chrysler is now profitable. You have
said that the government rescue plan was necessary and good.
Your candidate,  Mitt Romney , opposed it. He was for something
that he said would not have been a government bailout at all.
The auto industry and others say, if he’d done that, the
industry would have gone bankrupt and there would not be a GM
and a Chrysler today. Isn’t that a problem for that candidate
out in Michigan?  SNYDER: No, what I actually said was - is I’m not going to
armchair quarterback.  HUNT: No, I know. I’m talking about, isn’t it a problem -
not for you, but isn’t it a problem for Romney?  SNYDER: Well, again, in some ways, he had a different
solution, and that might have worked, but we’ll never know. So
that’s part of the point about not wasting time.  HUNT:  Hank Paulson  says it wouldn’t have worked.  Mike
Jackson , a Republican who you know, the head of the auto
dealers, says that when he says that, that’s just disingenuous,
it’s not true, it had no chance to work. And where would they
have gotten the credit? You’re in private equity. Where would
they have gotten the credit?  SNYDER: Well, there’s where I view this as a lot of
hypotheticals, because it’s interesting, though. All the time
that’s been spent on the auto bailout, people really aren’t
discussing the relevant question. And the relevant question in
my view is to ask these candidates, what are you going to do to
drop the unemployment rate by 50 percent going forward?  HUNT: Going forward.  SNYDER: And people are - so they’re spending way too much
time on looking at history where, as you talked about, we were
worst in the nation for unemployment. Now we’ve made huge
improvements. We’re at 9.3 percent, but that’s still too high.
And the question is, is how do we get to 4 percent or 5 percent?  HUNT: Well, that is the most important - but you don’t
think the  auto industry  could have gotten private money back in
2008, do you? You don’t disagree with Paulson and Mike Jackson
and Steve Rattner and all the others?  SNYDER: I just don’t even go there. I don’t see the value -  HUNT: But you don’t know any place that they would have
gotten it?  SNYDER: Well, again, I don’t speculate. I view it as it’s
not an armchair quarterback -  HUNT: I’m not going to get you to go there, governor.  SNYDER: I look towards - I look towards the future, because
that’s - too much time spent on doing negative things, and we
need to get the public sector much more focused on common-ground
solutions. That’s why we’re getting so much done in Michigan. I
call it relentless positive action. We don’t blame anyone for
anything. We don’t take credit for anything. We just go find
common ground, advance a solution, and make progress, and it
works.  HUNT: Speaking of the future, another candidate,  Rick
Santorum , has called for eliminating totally any tax on
manufacturing. You’re a big manufacturing state. Good idea?  SNYDER: Well, again, I think - I’m in favor of a very
balanced tax system that’s simple, fair and efficient. It’s
about a lower rate, broader base. And that’s what we did in
Michigan. We eliminated the Michigan business tax. It was the
dumbest tax in the  United States . It was a job-killer. And we
got rid of it, but we put in a flat 6 percent corporate net
income tax that works well.  HUNT: How about the federal government eliminating tax on
manufacturing, as Santorum says? Would that be good for
Michigan?  SNYDER: Well, it’d be good for Michigan. I’m not sure in
terms of best  tax policy  overall that’s the best answer, though.  HUNT: You prefer the Romney tax plan.  SNYDER: Well, Romney -  Governor Romney  has a good tax plan.
And he has a good plan overall, because one of the things that
he talks about that I admire is he talks about talent and the
need to really connect people with where the jobs are.  For example, in Michigan, we started a portal last fall
called mitalent.org. There are 76,000 open jobs in Michigan.
That would drop our  unemployment rate  by almost 2 percent if we
filled those jobs. And not much was being done to connect people
with the opportunities or let them know what skills they need to
be successful. So we’re helping lead that, and I think that’s
something that should happen all around the country.  HUNT: Governor, in the Republican debates and in campaign
commercials, there’s been a lot of union bashing, talking about
labor bosses. Is that a winning line that resonates with voters?
Or do you worry that that’s divisive and counterproductive?  SNYDER: Well, it resonates with some voters, obviously. But
as a practical matter, I stay away from divisive issues. That’s
why I’ve said in Michigan, I don’t want to see right-to-work
legislation -  HUNT: Would you like to see the candidates stay away from
union bashing or labor boss talk?  SNYDER: Yeah, because - well, I view it as the key thing is
to create jobs. And it’s really looking toward the future.  HUNT: So stay away from -  SNYDER: Yeah, and there’s a lot of good issues out there.
And that’s what we’ve done in Michigan.  HUNT: I’m not putting words in your mouth when I say stay
away from that stuff, am I?  SNYDER: Well, I stay away from it as a practical matter.  HUNT: And would you like to see your candidates stay away
from it?  SNYDER: Well, what I would say is, is I think we need to be
focused on the forward-looking question of, how do we create
more and better jobs? And how do we create a future for our
kids?  HUNT: Governor, one more question. I couldn’t get you to
talk about the auto bailout thing, but it’s popular in Michigan.
The polls show  Barack Obama  is well ahead of Republicans right
now, today. It’s going to be pretty uphill to defeat Barack
Obama in Michigan in the fall, isn’t it?  SNYDER: I wouldn’t necessarily say that. I mean, I’m used
to uphill races in the races I ran in Michigan.  HUNT: You are. Right.  SNYDER: I started in the margin of error. It’s really
getting to a dialogue that focuses on the future, the jobs
question. And, again, I think that’s one of the challenges, is I
don’t think our system works well today, because we spend too
much time looking at the past and not the present. And the
average citizen wants to know where their next job is or the job
for their kids.  HUNT: Am I right in saying Obama would be the favorite,
though?  SNYDER: He would be the favorite, according to all the
polls.  HUNT: OK.  SNYDER: But as a practical matter, I come back to this
again and again. I ran in Michigan, and there are a lot of
issues - and the two things that are on people’s minds are more
and better jobs for the future and a brighter future for the
kids. And I think Michigan’s a great microcosm of the country.
We’re solving the problems that are being struggled with at the
national level.  HUNT: Michigan is a great state. Governor Rick Snyder,
thank you so much for being with us.  SNYDER: Thank you.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP. 