-- Angola’s Sonangol Earned $33.7 Billion in 2011 Oil Sales
-- B y   C a n d i d o   M e n d e s   a n d   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2012-02-24T15:31:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/sonangol-of-angola-earned-33-7-billion-from-oil-sales-last-year.html
Sonangol EP,  Angola ’s state-run oil
producer, said average daily production fell in 2011 even as it
increased revenue because of rising international  oil prices .  Angola,  Africa ’s second-largest oil producer behind
 Nigeria , pumped 1.65 million barrels per day last year, 5.7
percent less than 2010, earning the company $33.7 billion as oil
prices above $100 a barrel offset the decline, Francisco de
Lemos Maria, chairman of Sonangol, said in Luanda, the capital.  “The fall in production primarily affected non-Angolan
companies,” Maria told reporters. “In contrast, revenue
increased by 14 percent, which is explained by higher oil prices
in the international market.”  The company invested $6 billion in production, Maria said.
It acquired a 25 percent stake in the deepwater Block 31 from
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , and it’s in “advanced stages” of talks for
Eni SpA to acquire 50 percent of a 200,000-barrel-a-day refinery
proposed for Lobito in Angola’s south, he said.  Sonangol will pull out of  Iran  because of international
sanctions on the Middle Eastern country over its nuclear
program. The situation is “unsustainable,” said Fernando de
Brito, a Sonangol board member.  In December, Sonangol suspended operations in neighboring
 Iraq  after “unknown groups” attacked its installations and
launched three rockets, destroying eight trucks, Maria said.  Cobalt Probe  Gaspar Martins, executive administrator of Sonangol, said
the company isn’t worried about investigations of  Cobalt
International Energy Inc. (CIE)  by U.S. regulators, who allege one of
the Houston-based company’s Angolan exploration partners, Nazaki
Oil and Gaz SA, has improper connections to senior government
officials.  Anti-corruption activists, including Rafael Marques, have
alleged that Nazaki is led by Manuel Domingos Vicente, the
former head of Sonangol who was appointed Angola’s minister for
economic coordination earlier this month. Sonangol oversees
partnerships between foreign and domestic energy companies.  “The composition of the partnership is the most perfect
possible,” Martins said in an interview after the press
conference. “The U.S. will come to a conclusion when they see
the process has been very transparent in the company which
joined the block partnership and it went through a rigorous
scrutiny to qualify.”  LNG Delay  Cobalt said Feb. 21 that the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission and the  Department of Justice  are probing the alleged
ties. U.S. authorities are concerned that Cobalt may have
violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act that prohibits paying
foreign officials to win business.  Cobalt holds a 40 percent share in Blocks 9 and 21 offshore
Angola. Nazaki and Alper Oil, which hold 30 percent and 10
percent in the two blocks, were assigned to Cobalt as local
partners by the Angolan government, Cobalt has said.  Exports from a liquefied natural gas terminal under
construction in northern Angola, planned for this month, have
been delayed until at least May 20 because of more testing,
Anabela Fonseca, a Sonangol board member, told reporters.
Production will begin in early May, she said.  Angola’s only refinery processed 41,600 barrels a day in
2011, an increase of 26 percent compared to 2010, Fonseca said.
Angola imported 3.26 million tons of oil products, mostly
gasoline, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candido Mendes in Luanda at 
 cmendes6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  