-- Space Capsule Embeds Richter, Bacon Beneath Frankfurt Staedel
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-02-24T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/space-capsule-embeds-richter-bacon-beneath-frankfurt-staedel.html
Is it a flying saucer? Or a dinosaur
emerging from the bowels of the earth? The new underground
extension to  Frankfurt ’s  Staedel Museum  invites odd comparisons.  I’d go for a space capsule -- though that suggests it looks
alien in the depths of the gracious 19th-century building on the
banks of the Main river. It doesn’t. The extension nestles
discreetly beneath the foundations, serving as a message from a
new era to centuries gone by.  Open to the public starting this weekend, the exhibition
space is white, airy and suffused with daylight that enters via
195 disc-shaped skylights in the softly undulating ceiling. The
skylights create a futuristic pattern on the lawn above. A
hillock at the center forms a dome in the cavernous hall below,
whose walls are higher than 8 meters in places.  The Staedel is one of Germany’s most prestigious museums,
covering 700 years of European art history from Cranach to
Degas, from Vermeer to Picasso. Until now, it lacked a
contemporary-art wing to house an important postwar collection
built up over the past six years, with works by  Gerhard Richter ,
 Georg Baselitz ,  Anselm Kiefer , Jean Dubuffet,  Cindy Sherman ,
 Andy Warhol , Isa Genzken, Olafur Eliasson and  Francis Bacon .  The biggest contributors were  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  DZ Bank
AG (DZBK) , which agreed in 2008 to hand over more than 800 artworks.
About a third of the 330 works on show are from those long-term
loans. Ninety percent have not been exhibited in public before.
The focus is on German artists, with some notable exceptions.  Private Donors  Designed by the Frankfurt architects  Schneider &
Schumacher , the extension cost 34 million euros ($45 million) to
construct. The old building was renovated at a cost of 18
million euros at the same time. Unusually for  Germany , where
arts funding is primarily the job of the state, half the money
came from private foundations and individuals.  From the foyer of the old building, two arched entrances
lead down into the new wing. A new conference room looks out on
to the disc-dotted garden.  A purpose-made work by Thomas Demand clads the conference
room walls, looking like a sumptuous velvet curtain surrounding
the room. On closer inspection, it’s flat and lacks texture: a
photograph printed onto fabric stretched over the wall.  A larger staircase descends into the underground hall. This
is no dingy basement, nor is it a boring white cube. The curvy
ceiling and staircases with textured, rounded side walls soften
its contours and add to the spacey allure.  Art Continuum  The visitor is met with early-20th-century works by Ernst
Wilhelm Nay, Josef Albers and Lyonel Feininger to show a natural
progression from the classical modern collection upstairs.  “We wanted to make the point that there is a continuum
here -- that World War II was not as much of a rupture in the
development of art as is often believed,” Max Hollein, the
director of the Staedel, said in an interview.  Two narrative strands lead through the halls (with much
overlap) -- one following the path of abstract painting and the
other, figurative. A sculpture by Otto Freundlich that could
either be a disjointed figure or a composition of abstract
blocks reminds you that the distinction is not always clear.  The Staedel’s focus is on painting and sculpture and the
new wing continues that tradition, with no videos or large
installations. Still, Hollein says the museum seeks to broaden
the discourse with its inclusion of photography and paintings
about photography -- works like Richter’s “Boat Ride.”  The blurry 1965 canvas, dominated by shades of midnight
blue, is painted from a projection of a newspaper photograph
onto a large screen.  Bronze Relic  Movable walls partition the museum space into galleries,
each dedicated to major sponsors, including the  Hertie Stiftung 
and Bankhaus Metzler seel. Sohn & Co. KgaA. In one of these
galleries,  Joseph Beuys ’s “Mountain King,” a heavy bronze that
looks like an ancient relic, shares space with Kiefer’s 1990
“Argonauts,” a canvas caked with ash, lead, glass, teeth
(really), snakeskin and dolls’ dresses.  The city council is seeking to promote Frankfurt as a
culture destination as well as a business hub, with the
Museumsufer (Museum Embankment) as the main attraction. The new
Staedel extension should certainly help. The public can view it
for the first time at open days on Feb. 25 and 26.  Information:  http://www.staedelmuseum.de   (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 