-- Spain Asks Cities’ Creditors to Accept Losses in Austerity Drive
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-02-24T19:35:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/spain-to-guarantee-city-government-bills-in-exchange-for-rigor.html
The Spanish government seeks to ease
cities’ financial woes by pushing companies to accept reduced
payments in a bid to clear municipal budgets of unpaid bills.  Under the government’s plan, Spanish banks will lend money
to cities so they can pay their bills, according to a statement
on the website of Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s office. In
exchange, cities must pledge to balance their budgets.  Companies that have waited the longest for payment and that
agree to accept less than face value on outstanding debt will be
paid first, according to the statement.  Spain ’s cities and
regions owe suppliers as much as 50 billion euros ($67 billion),
the ABC newspaper reported on Feb. 22.  The People’s Party government, in power since Dec. 21, is
seeking to relieve the debt burden of cities and regions and is
pushing them for budget cuts.  Overspending (EUBDSPAI)  at the municipal and
regional levels contributed to Spain missing a deficit target
set by the European Union last year as growth slumped,
diminishing tax receipts.  The stocks of construction companies such as  Fomento de
Construcciones y Contratas SA (FCC) , Spain’s fourth-largest builder,
and Actividades de Construccion y Servicios SA, jumped on Feb.
22 after Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro said the government
was working on the debt-repayment plan.  The government will set  interest rates  and payment delays
in the next few weeks, according to today’s statement. Spanish
law will be amended to enable the state to guarantee the
repayment of the loans.  ‘Viability Plan’  Cities have until March 15 to inform the Budget Ministry of
unpaid bills and until the end of March to present plans to
balance their budgets in order to qualify for the program.  “The idea is to put things in order,” Deputy Prime
Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria told reporters in  Madrid 
today. “Public administrations must submit to a viability plan
that will lead them to meet their obligations.”  “The mechanism will be designed to be agile and have the
least economic impact possible,” Saenz de Santamaria said.  The government approved a credit line of as much as 15
billion euros on Feb. 3 to help Spain’s 17 semi-autonomous
regions pay suppliers and meet debt payments through June. The
state-run Official Credit Institute, or ICO in Spanish, will
organize the facility.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  