-- Sprint Is Said to Abandon Plans to Buy MetroPCS for $8 Billion
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-02-25T05:39:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/sprint-said-to-end-talks-to-buy-wireless-carrier-metropcs-for-8-billion.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  abandoned plans
to buy  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS) , two people with knowledge
of the matter said, walking away from a deal that might have
helped the mobile-phone carrier vie with Verizon Wireless and
 AT&T Inc. (T)   The transaction would have valued MetroPCS at about $8
billion, said one of the people, who asked not to be identified
because the discussions were private. It was rejected by
Sprint’s board, this person said. The transaction included a 30
percent premium, CNBC reported yesterday.  MetroPCS would have provided access to more than 9.3
million customers and airwaves needed for faster wireless
services. Sprint discussed buying  T-Mobile USA  last year, people
knowledgeable of the matter said at the time. The company is on
the lookout for deals that would help it pose a more credible
threat to bigger competitors  Verizon Wireless  and AT&T.  “Sprint is on the prowl for an acquisition,”  Christopher King , an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said in an
interview.  Failing a takeover of MetroPCS, Sprint may consider buying
MetroPCS rival  Leap Wireless International Inc. (LEAP) , King said.
MetroPCS also remains a potential target for a company such as
T-Mobile USA, he said.  John Taylor , a spokesman for Overland Park, Kansas-based
Sprint, declined to comment, as did Drew Crowell, a spokesman
for Richardson, Texas-based MetroPCS, and Greg Lund at San
Diego-based Leap.  ‘No Confidence’ in Hesse  The failed effort suggests that Sprint Chief Executive
Officer Dan Hesse lacks the support of his board, King said.  “It certainly indicates a different line of thinking
between  Dan Hesse  and his board,” he said. “Having this public
a breakup on a deal that he’s endorsed is almost akin to no
confidence.”  It raises questions “as to Hesse’s future at Sprint,”
King said.  Metro PCS rose as much as 11 percent in extended trading
yesterday after CNBC reported the broken down discussions.  Sprint was little changed after briefly rising to $2.52.
The company’s stock has tumbled 42 percent in the past 12 months
amid subscriber losses and single-digit sales growth.  Even adding Apple Inc.’s iPhone to the Sprint lineup did
little to help Hesse last quarter in his attempt to stem a five-
year decline in contract subscribers. Sprint sold fewer iPhones
than analysts predicted during the period and margins came under
pressure as it paid higher subsidies to lure users to the
handsets.  Metro PCS, a pay-as-you-go wireless carrier, reported
profit on Feb. 23 that beat analysts’ estimates. Fourth-quarter
sales rose 16 percent to $1.2 billion, while net income surged
more than sixfold to $91 million. Earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization rose 15 percent to $362
million, topping the average estimate of $319.6 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  