-- MSRB Web ‘Hub’, Italy Short-Sales, Domain Names: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-02-24T13:08:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/msrb-web-hub-italy-short-sales-bank-domain-names-compliance.html
The Municipal Securities Rulemaking
Board published a  plan  that would enhance its free website to
create a “central public dissemination hub” for the $3.7
trillion tax-exempt bond market.  The plan is based on feedback from investors, municipal
issuers and regulatory organizations about improving
transparency, according to a statement yesterday. The  Electronic
Municipal Market Access  website provides market data and
disclosures from borrowers to the public at no cost.  Proposed enhancements include free user accounts, more
information, improved search functionality and a new real-time
central transparency platform, according to the MSRB.  The MSRB previously announced parts of the plan, according
to the release.  The industry regulator will review its long-term plan
regularly to “reflect changing market priorities and to ensure
the relevancy of its goals,” the MSRB said. Market participants
and the public can submit feedback, it said.  Compliance Policy  Italy Has No Plans to Extend Short-Sale Ban, Regulator Says  Italy won’t extend its ban on short selling of financial
shares after it expires, said  Giuseppe Vegas , chairman of
Italian market regulator Consob.  Vegas, who made the remarks at a meeting with reporters at
the London Stock Exchange yesterday, was referring to an
anticipated expiration date set for today.  France, Belgium, Spain and Italy moved to prohibit short
selling of financial shares in August in an effort to stabilize
markets after European banks including  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  hit
their lowest levels since the credit crisis of 2008. France,
Belgium and Spain ended their bans last week.  Short-sellers sell borrowed shares with plans to buy them
back later at a lower price, a practice politicians and some
investors blame for roiling markets. The trade is known as
“naked” when sellers haven’t first taken steps to ensure that
they can borrow the securities.  Bank Domain Names Open to Misuse, Fraud, European Regulator Says  Plans to grant banks the use of new domain names such as
.fin and .bank will make it harder for regulators to stop fraud,
Europe’s top banking authority told the group in charge of the
Internet’s address system.  The domain names “have a great potential” for “misuse by
unscrupulous individuals,” Andrea Enria, chairman of the
 European Banking Authority , said in a letter to Barbara Clay,
vice-president for communications at the Internet Corporation
for Assigned Names and Numbers. The plans for the names should
be dropped, Enria said in the letter on the agency’s  website .  American Express Co., (AXP)   Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) 
are among more than 50 companies that signed a petition in
November saying the domain name expansion would increase their
costs and confuse consumers. They urged the U.S. Commerce
Department to persuade ICANN to suspend the application period
for the names, which closes April 12.  The EBA plans to issue an alert “warning consumers of
banking services to the risks of these new naming conventions,”
the London-based agency said in its opinion on the plans, also
sent to ICANN.  CFTC to Consider Post-MF Global Futures-Collateral Safeguards  The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  will hold a
roundtable next week to consider steps to safeguard collateral
following the collapse of  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) , according to
two people briefed on the agenda.  The plan, one of several possible regulatory changes, would
mimic new rules completed Jan. 11 for the swaps market,
according to the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the roundtable agenda isn’t public. The swap plan,
approved on a 4-1 vote, is designed to protect clients’
collateral if their broker defaults, while also allowing the
customer funds to be pooled before a bankruptcy.  The roundtable will take place on Feb. 29 and March 1,
according to one of the people. The event is an early step
toward additional rules and regulations that would require an
official CFTC proposal and vote by the agency’s five
commissioners.  CFTC Chairman Gary Gensler asked the agency’s staff to
develop recommendations for new oversight of the industry’s
self-regulatory organizations and brokers. The review may
include recommendations for changes requiring congressional
action, according to a Jan. 26 letter from Jill E. Sommers, a
Republican commissioner, to Senator  Pat Roberts , a Kansas
Republican. Sommers is overseeing the agency’s work on the
collapse of MF Global.  Separately, the CFTC completed final Dodd-Frank Act
regulations governing recordkeeping and internal compliance
standards for swap dealers and other large users of swaps.  The agency’s commissioners voted 3-2 to approve the final
rules at a meeting yesterday in Washington.  Bank Lobby Widened Volcker Rule, Inciting Foreign Outrage  U.S. banks pushed regulators to widen proposed restrictions
on trading and hedge-fund ownership by foreign firms, then
encouraged governments around the world to complain about the
rule’s reach.  The two-pronged lobbying strategy resulted in  foreign
officials  joining U.S. lenders to push back against the  Volcker
rule , named after former Federal Reserve Chairman Paul A.
Volcker and incorporated in the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act.  The Volcker rule seeks to prevent deposit-taking firms from
making bets with their own capital or owning  hedge funds . Last
year, U.S. banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  lobbied the Fed and other regulators to apply the
regulation more broadly to companies based outside the U.S.,
according to four people with knowledge of the discussions who
asked not to be identified because the talks were private.  Banks and their lobbyists later sent position papers to the
Washington embassies of foreign governments and met with
officials to warn that sovereign-debt prices would suffer if
U.S. banks are barred under the Volcker rule from buying other
nations’ bonds for their trading accounts, three of the people
said. That led to an outpouring of letters from Canadian,
Japanese and European Union officials, as well as from dozens of
non-U.S. lenders, urging regulators to overhaul the rule.  U.K. and Japanese finance ministers also weighed in
yesterday, saying that without an exemption from the rule, their
governments’ borrowing costs would rise.  In recent months, as regulators sought comments on a 298-
page proposal to implement the Volcker rule, the outcry from
banks has swelled. Lobbyists have argued that the plan would
reduce trading in bond markets and increase borrowing costs for
investors and companies.  For more, click here.  Barnier Bid to Control Bank Capital Rules Said to Face Challenge  At least four nations may challenge European Union plans to
limit their power to regulate bank capital as governments seek a
compromise on implementing global rules on the reserves lenders
must keep to prevent a financial crisis, according to four
people with knowledge of the matter.  Officials from the EU’s 27 member states are weighing
whether to scrap a proposal from EU Financial Services chief
 Michel Barnier  to make the  European Commission  responsible for
deciding bank capital levels during market turmoil, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the talks are
private. Nations are also considering widening the range of
assets lenders may use to meet liquidity rules, the people said.  Barnier has been criticized by the U.K. and Sweden for
seeking to restrain national watchdogs’ freedom to impose
tougher capital rules on national banks. Barnier has said that
requirements for lenders should be set by the EU, with limited
exceptions for national regulators to exceed them to ease credit
booms.  Barnier’s text would hand the European Commission power to
set “stricter” capital rules for banks in cases where it’s
necessary to address “risks which arise from market
developments,” according to a copy of  the document  on the EU’s
website. The rules would be temporary, although no time limit is
set out in the draft law. The extra requirements could apply
across the whole EU or in individual countries.  The commissioner included the curbs in a draft law he
presented last year to implement rules agreed on by the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision. Chantal Hughes, Barnier’s
spokeswoman, declined to immediately comment.  China CBRC Issues Draft Rules on Lending to ‘Green’ Industries  Chinese banks should boost credit support to low-carbon and
“green” industries, according to draft regulations by the
China  Banking Regulatory Commission  distributed at a briefing in
Beijing.  Lenders should adopt “differentiated” lending policies to
industries with major environmental and social risks, according
to the draft rules.  Banks shouldn’t lend to clients that fail environmental and
social risk evaluations, and will be allowed to terminate
lending in the event of “major” hazards, according to the
proposed rules.  Compliance Action  Bats Gets Request From SEC on Exchange Order Types, Strategies  Bats Global Markets Inc. (BATS) , the exchange operator preparing
for an initial public offering, got a request from the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission for information on the types
of orders customers use on its venues.  The request from the SEC’s enforcement division, disclosed
in a regulatory filing yesterday on the IPO, sought information
about how order types have evolved at the third-largest owner of
U.S. equity exchanges by volume. Bats said regulators asked for
documents “related to the development, modification and use of
 order types , and our communications with certain market
participants,” including some of Bats’ owners.  Bats and exchanges such as Nasdaq Stock Market and NYSE
Arca offer multiple  order types  so traders can tailor
transactions based on price moves or other conditions. Some of
them give users control over when and how they execute a trade
request while others allow firms to keep their place in line for
orders or avoid routing to other venues.  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , which
owns NYSE Arca, and  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  are in New York.  The SEC asked for information on Lenexa, Kansas-based
Bats’s information-technology systems and trading strategies,
the filing said.  Randy Williams , a spokesman for Bats, declined
to comment.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to provide
further details.  Bats also said in the filing that its board approved a $100
million dividend for current shareholders the day before the
IPO. Bats operates two U.S. equities markets, an options
exchange and two European trading venues and is owned by a group
of brokers including Morgan Stanley and Citigroup Inc. in New
York and Chicago-based Getco LLC.  For more, click here.  Japan Financial Watchdog Orders AIJ to Halt Asset Business  Japan’s financial regulator ordered  AIJ Investment Advisors
Co.  to halt its business after finding the asset manager’s
clients funds of about 183.2 billion yen
($2.3 billion) may be “adversely affected” and started a probe
into the 263 asset managers operating in the nation.  The regulator is still investigating the firm and can’t
comment on losses. The suspension, which began yesterday, will
last until March 23, the regulator said.  AIJ, a Tokyo-based asset-management firm, may have lost
most of the 200 billion yen it manages for companies’ pension
plans, the Nikkei newspaper said, citing unidentified securities
investigators. Regulators have been investigating AIJ since the
end of January and are unable to explain where some money went,
Nikkei reported.  Japanese pension plans have been suffering from two decades
of slumping markets and an aging population. Alternative
investments were becoming one of the options for the retirement
funds, which have traditionally invested mainly in bonds, as
ways to maintain steady returns and fund retiree benefits in a
country where more than one in five people are  over 65 .  AIJ, led by Kazuhiko Asakawa, was established in April
1989, and had 120 clients including pension plans with
183.2 billion yen in assets as of the end of 2010, according to
a statement from the Financial Services Agency, adding it has 12
employees.  A phone call to AIJ’s main office was answered by an
automatic recording which didn’t allow messages to be kept.  Courts  Sony, Philips Win Paris Appeal Against 2005 Antitrust Fine  Royal Philips Electronics NV and  Sony Corp. (6758)  won appeals
overturning a December 2005 fine by France’s competition
regulator for fixing prices in consumer electronics such as
televisions, lawyers for Sony said yesterday.  The appeals court threw out evidence from secretly recorded
phone calls and found insufficient proof in what remained to
uphold the fine, Paris-based law firm Gide Loyrette Nouel said
in an e-mailed statement.  The 32 million euros ($42.6 million) paid by the two
companies must be returned, the Paris court said. The issue was
referred back to the regulator for further inquiry, “if
appropriate,” according to the statement.  The French regulator, the Autorite de la Concurrence,
declined to comment on the decision in an e-mailed statement.  Hedge Fund 3 Degrees Said to Lose Challenge to Regulator’s Order  3 Degrees Asset Management, asked by Singapore’s central
bank to shutter its operations following allegations that
founder Moe Ibrahim diverted assets, lost a legal bid to
challenge the regulator’s order, according to two people
familiar with the decision.  3 Degrees’s application to overturn the decision by the
 Monetary Authority of Singapore  and the finance minister to
withdraw its  exempt fund manager status  was rejected by the
Singapore High Court, said the people, who weren’t authorized to
speak publicly about the decision. Justice Belinda Ang’s minutes
from the Feb. 23 closed hearing aren’t publicly available.  The Monetary Authority probed Singapore-based 3 Degrees
after one of its funds sued Indonesian-born Agus Anwar in 2008
to recover at least $40 million of debt. Anwar then claimed that
Ibrahim diverted $6.7 million from the fund to 3 Degrees, which
is wholly owned by Ibrahim. Withdrawing 3 Degrees’s exempt
status would send a “strong message of deterrence’ to others in
the industry, the regulator said in court papers.  Ibrahim and Ronald Falls Jr., the hedge fund’s general
counsel, didn’t respond to three e-mails seeking comment. They
weren’t available for comment, according to a woman who answered
a call to 3 Degrees’s office and gave her name only as Alicia. A
spokesman for Singapore’s central bank, didn’t respond to two e-
mails and three calls requesting comment.  3 Degrees, which focuses on distressed debt and managed
about $215 million as of Oct. 5, denied the allegations in its
lawsuit. The withdrawal of the fund’s status was put on hold,
pending the outcome of yesterday’s court hearing.  The case is 3 Degrees Asset Management Pte v Attorney
General and Monetary Authority of Singapore OS874/2011 in the
Singapore High Court.  Interviews/Speeches  Gerard Says Obama Tax Plan Picks ‘Winners and Losers’  Jack Gerard, chief executive officer of the American
Petroleum Institute, talked about the potential impact of
President Barack Obama’s proposed corporate tax changes on the
oil industry.  Gerard spoke with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg Television’s
‘‘InsideTrack.”  For more, click here.  Flaherty Says Hopes for Reasonable Solution on Volcker Rule  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said he’s hopeful
his government will reach a solution with the U.S. on proposed
U.S. regulations to prevent banks from trading with their own
money.  Flaherty said he will discuss the so-called Volcker rule
with U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner this weekend at a
meeting of G-20 finance ministers in Mexico City. Flaherty has
warned the measure would restrict liquidity in Canadian
government debt markets.  Flaherty made the remarks at a news conference yesterday in
Toronto.  Barnier Says Volcker Rule Should Focus on Banks’ U.S. Acts  Michel Barnier, the European Union’s financial services
chief, said a proposed U.S. ban on proprietary trading is too
far-reaching and its implementation must be coordinated
globally.  The so-called Volcker rule, named for former Federal
Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , was included in the Dodd-Frank
Act to restrict risky trading at banks that operate with federal
guarantees. Central bankers and regulators from around the world
have voiced concern that the rule, which would apply to the U.S.
operations of foreign banks, may also extend to firms’
operations outside of the country.  “It is not acceptable that U.S. rules have such a wide
effect on other nations and foreign capital markets without any
international coordination,” Barnier said yesterday in a speech
at a conference in Washington. “National rules can have serious
effects abroad. That is why I’m concerned about your proposed
implementation” of the Volcker rule.  In scores of comment letters filed Feb. 13, the world’s
largest banks demanded changes to the proposed ban on
proprietary trading. They said the Volcker rule, which is
scheduled to take effect in July, would increase risk, raise
investor costs, hurt U.S. competitiveness and be vulnerable to
legal challenge. G-20 leaders haven’t endorsed the rule, which
exempts U.S. government debt but not non-U.S. government bonds.  Comings and Goings  Wynn Macau to Meet to Discuss Removal of Okada From Board  Wynn Macau Ltd. (1128)  will hold an emergency meeting of its board
to discuss removing Japanese billionaire Kazuo Okada after
parent  Wynn Resort Ltd. (WYNN)  accused him of illegal payments to
Philippine gambling regulators.  Allan Zeman, vice chairman of the unit, said that while the
time hasn’t been confirmed, the company is considering an
emergency meeting in Macau. He is waiting to hear from the
lawyers, he said.  Wynn Resorts Chairman and Chief Executive Steve Wynn will
convene an emergency meeting with Wynn Macau directors today,
Reuters reported yesterday, citing people it didn’t identify.
Okada, the 69-year-old chairman of  Universal Entertainment
Corp. (6425) , has denied Wynn’s allegation he violated U.S. laws by
making payments to members of the Philippine Amusement and
Gaming Corp.  Universal Entertainment owned 20 percent of Wynn Resorts
through a U.S.-based unit and is building a $2.3 billion
gambling resort in Manila.  The Las Vegas-based casino operator on Feb. 19 said it
redeemed the Universal unit’s stake for about 30 percent less
than the market price and asked Okada to quit the  board  over the
alleged payments.  Universal reiterated Feb. 22 it will take legal action
against Wynn’s moves, which it called “outrageous.” Nobuyuki
Horiuchi, a spokesman for Tokyo-based Universal, declined to
comment on the planned emergency meeting in Macau.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 