-- AOL Shareholder Starboard Value Nominates Five Directors, Seeking Changes
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-02-24T21:44:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/starboard-nominates-five-aol-board-directors.html
AOL Inc. (AOL)  shareholder Starboard Value
LP nominated five directors for the Web portal’s board after
citing disappointment in the company’s response to a December
letter saying it should move to stem shareholder losses.  Starboard, which increased its stake to 5.2 percent from
4.5 percent late last year, said it’s “increasingly
uncomfortable” with the direction the company and the board
leadership are taking, according to a statement today. The new
slate of directors, which includes  Jeffrey Smith , co-founder and
Chief Executive Officer of Starboard, will ensure AOL evaluates
with an “open mind and a keen sense of urgency” all
alternative strategies.  AOL CEO  Tim Armstrong  has been struggling to revive revenue
growth after separating from Time Warner Inc. in December 2009,
as the company competes for advertising dollars with  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
and  Facebook Inc (FB) . AOL has increased display-ad sales over the
last four earnings periods. For the fourth quarter, total
revenue fell 3 percent and net income dropped 66 percent, less
than analysts estimated.  “We are troubled that the company remains closed-minded to
alternative value creation initiatives,” Smith said in a letter
accompanying the statement. AOL could exploit its more-than 800
patents covering Internet technologies such as e-commerce which
may generate “in excess of $1 billion of licensing income,” he
wrote.  Board Nominees  Starboard also nominated Ronald Epstein, CEO of
intellectual property firm Epicenter IP Group LLC; Steven Fink,
a private investor; Dennis Miller, a “strategic” adviser to
Lions Gate Entertainment; and James Warner, the principal of
advisory firm Third Floor Enterprises, a company specializing in
digital marketing and media.  Starboard said it plans to propose the new directors at
AOL’s annual meeting, which the company said is scheduled for
some time in May.  AOL has held “several meetings” with Starboard giving
them an opportunity to “help shape” the board’s composition
and size, according to a separate statement. “Unfortunately,
Starboard Value LP has a singularly focused agenda and rejected
this productive path to address their stated concerns and drive
increased  shareholder value ,” AOL said. “Our board of
directors and management team remain firmly committed to
creating value for all shareholders.”  AOL, based in  New York , fell 1.1 percent to $18.23 at the
close in New York. The shares have risen 21 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  