-- Statoil $1.2 Billion Tanzania Find May Hold Oil in New Play
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-02-24T16:58:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/statoil-largest-tanzania-discovery-may-hold-oil-opens-new-play.html
Statoil ASA (STL)  and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s
largest gas discovery off Tanzania may hold crude oil or
natural-gas liquids, opening a new “play” in  East Africa ,
Norway’s biggest oil producer said.  The partners have drilled the Zafarani exploration well in
Block 2, discovering at least 5 trillion cubic feet of dry gas,
Statoil said today in a statement. The discovery could be worth
$1.2 billion, said Theepan Jothilingam, an analyst at Nomura
Holdings Inc.  “We think it’s a different play, a different age reservoir
compared to what’s been proven” in Tanzania and Mozambique so
far, Statoil Executive Vice President for Exploration Tim Dodson
said in a phone interview. “It’s probably an older reservoir
than the other discoveries.” Statoil plans to deepen the well
by “several hundred meters” to test if “there could be some
liquid potential as well,” Dodson said.  Statoil, based in Stavanger, Norway, plans to focus on
exploration off Tanzania and Mozambique, where  BG Group Plc (BG/) ,  Eni
SpA (ENI)  and  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  found more than 70 trillion
cubic feet of gas. The Norwegian company is joining the race for
gas in East Africa so it can be turned into liquid and shipped
to  China  and  India , the world’s fastest-growing major economies.  “The Zafarani discovery should be seen as a play-opening
well for Statoil in East Africa,” Jothilingam wrote in an e-
mailed report. He based his discovery valuation on Royal Dutch
Shell Plc’s $1.6 billion bid this week for Mozambique-focused
 Cove Energy Plc. (COV)  “There is a risk of larger resource numbers”
at Zafarani, he said.  Next Target  Statoil operates the license on Block 2 on behalf of
 Tanzania Petroleum Development Corp. (PETD)  and has a 65 percent
interest. Exxon holds the remaining 35 percent. TPDC has the
right to a 10 percent working interest if the project moves to
development.  After completing Zafarani, Statoil plans to move the rig to
drill the Lavani prospect in Block 2, the company said. It also
plans to drill its  first well  in the Rovuma basin off Mozambique
in early 2013.  Lavani has “quite an interesting potential as well, maybe
not quite as much as the Zafarani structure, but quite
significant volumes there as well,” Dodson said. “East Africa
is a hotspot for exploration.”  Statoil plans to invest $3 billion in exploration worldwide
this year, he said.  The company’s  shares  rose 1.4 percent to 157.1 kroner in
Oslo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net 
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  