-- Stockton, California, May Ask Bondholders to ‘Suffer,’ City Officials Say
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n   a n d   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-02-25T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/stockton-california-is-said-poised-for-its-first-step-toward-bankruptcy.html
Stockton (3654MF) ,  California , may take the
first steps toward becoming the most populous U.S. city to file
for bankruptcy next week because of burdensome employee costs,
excessive debt and bookkeeping errors that misrepresented
accounts, city officials said yesterday.  The Stockton City Council will meet Feb. 28 to consider a
type of mediation that allows creditors to participate, the
first move toward a Chapter 9 bankruptcy filing under a new
state law. The council will also weigh suspending some payments
on long-term  debt  of about $702 million, according to a 2010
financial statement.  “Somebody has to suffer and in this case the city manager
has decided it should be the bondholders who suffer,”  Marc Levinson  of the Sacramento-based law firm Orrick, Herrington &
Sutcliffe LLP, which represents the city, said at a news
briefing at  City Hall  yesterday.  Stockton , a farming center about 80 miles (130 kilometers)
east of  San Francisco , has fought to avert bankruptcy by
shrinking its payroll, including a quarter of the roughly 425-
member police force. At 292,000, the city has more than twice as
many residents as Vallejo, California, which became a national
symbol for distressed municipal finance in 2008 when it sought
protection from creditors.  Shrinking Current Budget  Stockton’s council will be asked to reduce the current
budget by $15 million because of newly uncovered accounting
errors and mismanagement that have left the city almost broke,
City Manager Bob Deis told reporters yesterday. To keep the city
solvent through June 30, the end of the fiscal year, the council
will be asked to default on $2 million of debt payments.  “Our employees and the citizens of Stockton who receive
city services have borne the entire brunt of our restructuring
efforts so far and now it’s time for others to do the same,”
Deis said in a report to the council. “We can’t ‘grow our way’
out of the problem and no amount of forward-looking financial
planning will properly fix it.”  Deis said he wants to use the mediation process to work out
a compromise with creditors such as bondholders and with labor
unions representing city workers before Stockton needs to seek
 bankruptcy protection .  “This is all being done with the goal of getting to June
30,” Deis said. “It’s always best to negotiate and work out a
settlement.”  Budget Deficit  Deis said the city is facing a $20 million deficit in the
next fiscal year. Expanded retiree health insurance commitments
in the 1990s have left the city with a looming $450 million
unfunded liability.  “Next year, we expect to pay more for retiree health
insurance than for our current employees,” Deis said, likening
the promises to a “ Ponzi scheme .”  State officials are monitoring the situation. “We haven’t
talked to them about it, but where we could help, we would,”
Governor  Jerry Brown , a Democrat, said yesterday in an interview
in  Washington .  State Treasurer Bill Lockyer said the city’s financial
troubles may be felt statewide.  “The reputational stain can bleed onto other local issuers
and the state, and that can hurt taxpayers in the bond market,”
he said in a statement. “So we hope a Chapter 9 filing is not
the final outcome.”  ‘Bad Message’  Telling bondholders they will suffer is “a bad message to
send out to bond-land,” said  Marilyn Cohen , president of Los
Angeles-based Envision Capital Management Inc., which manages
about $200 million in municipal debt.  “The whole idea has always been to preserve the bonds
because one day we’re going to have to re-enter in the  bond
market ,” Cohen said yesterday in a telephone interview.  The council will be asked to pay $175,000 to Management
Partners Inc. of Cincinnati, a consulting firm hired to evaluate
the city’s finances, for project management and technical
assistance during the state-required mediation.  “The sustained recession has reduced revenues
significantly,” Management Partners said in a report dated Feb.
23. “In the years prior to the recession, the city took on a
large amount of debt in anticipation of ongoing growth that now
exceeds the city’s ability to pay.”  “Compensation packages exceeded sustainable levels and the
city assumed a significant liability for improved retiree health
coverage without sufficient recurring revenues to cover growing
costs,” the report said. “Prior fiscal management practices
obscured problems.”  Moody’s Downgrade  Moody’s Investors Service yesterday downgraded Stockton’s
rating to Ba2, two levels below investment grade, from Baa1. The
city’s proposal to suspend general-obligation debt service and
enter mediation with creditors “demonstrates significantly
reduced willingness, if not ability” to pay bondholders,
Moody’s said in a report. The decision affected about $341
million in debt.  Standard & Poor’s  cut its rating to BB, two levels below
investment grade, from A- and lowered the city’s credit outlook
to negative.  News about Stockton didn’t affect the municipal bond market
yesterday, which was quiet with “underlying firmness,” said
Alan Schankel, director of fixed-income research at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia.  ‘Just Playing Chicken’  Schankel said he thinks Stockton might avoid filing for
bankruptcy. “They’re just playing chicken again,” he said.  Stockton had the eighth-highest violent crime rate in the
country in 2010; the second-highest foreclosure rate in the
U.S., behind  Las Vegas ; and the eighth-highest unemployment, at
15.9 percent in December, almost double the national average.  Such factors helped earn Stockton the title of “ most
miserable city ” in the U.S. twice in the past four years by
Forbes.com, out of the 200 largest metropolitan statistical
areas.  The city can expect to pay $20 million in legal fees if it
pursues bankruptcy, Dale Fritchen, a member of Stockton’s City
Council, said in a Feb. 23 telephone interview.  Legal Costs  “Municipal bankruptcy won’t just erase all your debt, so
we are still going to have to make cuts to balance the budget
and on top of those cuts come up with the $20 million extra for
legal fees,” Fritchen said.  A state law backed by unions and passed last year in
response to Vallejo’s bankruptcy requires cities to work with a
“neutral evaluator” for at least 60 days before seeking
bankruptcy court protection. The process gives creditors a right
to participate. It can be bypassed if the city declares a fiscal
emergency, according to the law.  Entering the 60-day evaluation period may cause a “run on
the general fund” by vendors, said Lee R. Bogdanoff, a
bankruptcy specialist at the Los Angeles  law firm  Klee, Tuchin,
Bogdanoff & Stern LLP, which filed the biggest municipal U.S.
bankruptcy on behalf of Jefferson County,  Alabama .  Suppliers may demand cash on delivery, or require past
bills to be paid immediately before continuing to do business
with the city, Bogdanoff, who isn’t involved in Stockton’s
situation, said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Since 1937, 635 municipalities have filed for Chapter 9
bankruptcy protection, according to  James Spiotto , head of the
bankruptcy practice at Chicago-based law firm Chapman & Cutler.
Stockton would be the biggest city to do so, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net ;
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  