-- Swift May Expel Iran’s Central Bank
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-02-24T22:55:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/swift-may-expel-iran-s-central-bank-hindering-oil-payments.html
The financial messaging service for
most international money transfers has told U.S. officials it is
prepared to cut off  Iran ’s central bank, according to people
involved in the talks, an action that would be a blow to Iran’s
already battered economy.  The Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial
Telecommunication, known as Swift, dispatched its top lawyer to
Washington for discussions this week in response to proposed
U.S. legislation targeting Swift and its board, whose chairman
is Yawar Shah of Citigroup Inc. and deputy chairman is Stephan Zimmermann of UBS AG.  Swift’s general counsel Blanche Petre said the Belgium-
based service is prepared to expel Iranian institutions
sanctioned by the European Union as well as Iran’s central bank,
according to aides to U.S. lawmakers who met with Petre and
spoke on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of
the issue.  A spokeswoman for Swift, JoAnn Healy, declined to comment
on private meetings involving its officials.  Acting against the Iranian institutions would be “a very
serious step, disruptive to the users, but also to the financial
community as a whole,” Healy said today in an e-mailed response
to questions. “It is a complex situation that needs to take
into consideration the implications to the functioning of the
global payments system, as well as to the continued flow of
humanitarian payments to the Iranian people.”  Going Further  The Obama administration, which has imposed more sanctions
on Iran than any nation or past U.S. administration, has
expressed wariness about the unintended consequences of
expelling all Iranian entities from Swift, according to the
aides to lawmakers. Treasury Department and White House
officials declined to comment on discussions with Swift and EU
authorities.  By including Iran’s central bank, Swift’s proposal goes
further than lawmakers or the administration sought, and might
roil oil markets on concern that buyers will be unable to pay
the second-largest producer in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries for its 2.2 million barrels a day of oil
exports.  “This is the financial equivalent of warfare,” Avi
Jorisch, a former U.S. Treasury official, said in an interview.
“The administration is very concerned about anything that would
spike oil markets. Cutting off Iran’s central bank from Swift
would do just that, but at same time, it would deal a knockout
blow to Iran’s ability to use the international financial
system.”  ‘Need to Choose’  “We need to choose at this point if we want Iran to get a
nuclear bomb or take the chance that oil markets will spike,”
he said.  Oil climbed for a seventh day, the longest sustained price
increase since January 2010, as escalating tension with Iran
threatens supplies and on signs of a global economic recovery.
Crude oil for April delivery rose 1.8 percent to $109.77 a
barrel, the highest settlement on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  since May 3.  Following a Nov. 8 report by United Nations inspectors that
raised questions about  Iran’s nuclear program , the U.S. and EU
have imposed an increasingly stringent array of economic
penalties on Iran to try to force its leaders to make
concessions on their nuclear development. The UN’s International
Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna said in an 11-page restricted
report obtained today by Bloomberg News that Iran tripled its
production of enriched uranium since November and rejected
concerns about its possible pursuit of nuclear weapons.  First Expulsion  Iran says its nuclear program is for civilian energy and
medical research. Western intelligence agencies say they have
evidence suggesting Iran is seeking the capability to make a
nuclear bomb.  In its 39 years, Swift has never expelled any institution
from the cooperative of 10,000 member banks and organizations in
210 countries. Swift transmits an average of 17 million
financial messages a day, facilitating trillions of dollars in
cross-border payments, officials said. According to its annual
report, 19 Iranian member banks and 25 financial institutions
sent and received 2 million messages through Swift in 2010.  Swift authorities said Feb. 17 they were prepared to comply
with any new EU regulations instructing them to expel sanctioned
Iranian entities. EU officials say regulations for financial
messaging services should be ready within weeks. If Swift expels
all EU-sanctioned Iranian institutions, the pending U.S.
legislation may be amended or shelved, congressional aides said.  Swift Bylaws  Swift doesn’t actually need to wait for the EU to issue new
rules. Its own bylaws give it the authority to expel any user
who is “subject to sanctions,” or any member whose use may
adversely affect Swift’s “reliability” or “reputation.” The
 European Central Bank ’s guidelines for Target2, the system that
settles transactions in euros through the Swift gateway, bar
access to those engaged in “ money laundering  and the financing
of terrorism, proliferation-sensitive nuclear activities and the
development of nuclear weapons delivery systems.”  Swift officials confirmed its bylaws include multiple
provisions permitting expulsion.  “Swift is engaging with U.S. and EU authorities, as well
as the G-10 central banks, which oversee Swift, to find the
right multilateral legal framework,” Healy said.  Mark Dubowitz , executive director of the Foundation for the
Defense of Democracies in Washington, said he believes Swift is
seeking “political cover to do something unprecedented” that
might set an unwanted example for governments to press for the
expulsion of other members.  ‘Political Football’  “They want to be able to say, ‘We are governed by European
law and only if the Europeans tell us we have to remove these
institutions do we comply,’” Dubowitz, who has advised
lawmakers and the administration on the implications of a Swift
ban on Iran, said in an interview. “Otherwise, they risk
becoming a political football if  China  asks them to expel
Taiwanese banks, for example.”  The EU and the U.S. have sanctioned more than 20 Iranian
banks or financial institutions for involvement in illicit
activities. The EU also froze the EU assets of the Iranian
central bank to prevent financing of nuclear activities, while
ensuring that legitimate trade can continue under strict
conditions, Maja Kocijancic, an EU foreign-policy spokeswoman,
said today from Brussels.  Oil Payments  Trevor Houser, an energy analyst and partner at Rhodium
Group, a New York-based economic research firm, said in an
interview that “expelling Iran’s central bank from Swift would
complicate Iran’s ability to receive payment for the crude oil
it exports and could accelerate a reduction in Iranian supply
more quickly than Western officials would like to see in the
interest of keeping oil markets in balance.”  “U.S. and EU officials have a tough needle to thread:
They’re trying to reduce Iranian revenue while preventing a
spike in global oil prices,” said Houser, a visiting fellow at
the Peterson Institute for International Economics in
 Washington . “Blunt instruments like removing Iran’s central
bank from Swift risk making that process even harder to manage
than it already is.”  Bank-to-Bank Payments  Houser said Iran would still be able to set up bank
accounts at the same financial institutions as oil buyers,
allowing them to process payments intra-bank, without the need
for a messaging system. Iran might also send messages through
Telex or e-mail, or accept payment for oil through other means.  Dubowitz said he is concerned that expelling Iran’s central
bank from Swift might complicate legal trade in food, medicine
and oil. He recommended EU regulators and Swift work closely
with the U.S. to minimize the risk of an oil price spike.  “If the central bank can be expelled from Swift while
allowing permitted oil trades to occur through other legal
mechanisms, I would fully support its expulsion,” he said.  “There is little point in driving 20 percent reductions in
Iranian oil exports if global  oil prices  then increase by 30
percent,” he said. “That will only enrich Iran’s Supreme
Leader Ali Khamenei while plunging the rest of us into an oil-
led recession.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  