-- Swiss Re Plans to Issue More Contingent Capital Notes, CFO Says
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2012-02-24T06:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/swiss-re-plans-to-issue-more-contingent-capital-notes-cfo-says.html
Swiss Re Ltd. (SREN)  Chief Financial
Officer  George Quinn  said the world’s second-biggest reinsurer
plans to issue more contingent capital notes to help fund growth.  “Over the course of the next few years, I expect to see
contingent capital to become a far more significant part of the
group’s available capital,” Quinn said in a telephone interview
from the company’s Zurich headquarters. It’s an “efficient way
of financing the firm,” he said, declining to elaborate on
Swiss Re’s capital plans.  Swiss Re’s first public  issuance  of contingent capital was
a five-year 320 million-Swiss-franc ($353 million) note sold to
Swiss investors on Jan. 27. Quinn said the company also wants to
sell contingent securities, which inflict losses on investors
when capital buffers weaken, internationally.  “Swiss Re is a global institution so we would look to
finance ourselves globally,” said Quinn. “We need to see how
investor appetite for these instruments develops. The initial
signs are positive.”  Swiss Re regained its AA-  credit rating  from  Standard &
Poor’s  in October after shedding risky assets, repaying a 3
billion-franc loan from  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) 
and stabilizing earnings. The reinsurer had $7 billion of excess
capital at the end of last year, Swiss Re said yesterday.  Swiss Re is cautious about investing in contingent capital
bonds issued by banks because it might expose the reinsurer to
risks in the financial system, said Quinn.  Rates Growth  “Contingent capital can play a role in the portfolio, but
won’t become a major part of our investment portfolio because of
you’d be transferring the risk of the banking sector into the
insurance sector,” he said.  Swiss Re expects more growth in property and casualty
contract renewals in April and July, Quinn said.  The company reported premium growth of 20 percent from
renewals in January, when it typically renews about two-thirds
of its annual non-life contracts, and saw an average price
increase of 4 percent.  “There are signs that we will continue to see price rises
through the remainder of the year,” said Quinn.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  