-- Syria Government Troops Clash With Rebels Before Tunisia Meeting
-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 2012-02-24T11:50:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/syria-government-troops-clash-with-rebels-before-tunisia-meeting.html
Syrian security forces clashed with
rebels in the central Homs region as the opposition’s
international backers meet to discuss stepping up pressure on
President Bashar al-Assad.  The army shelled the besieged town of Rastan from the early
morning and rebels in the area prevented them from storming the
city and destroyed two armored personnel carriers, the U.K.-
based  Syrian Observatory for Human Rights  said. Government
forces maintained their three-week pounding of the Baba Amr
neighborhood of Homs, where at least four people were killed
today, the group said.  The latest violence comes as U.S., European Union and Arab
politicians prepare to meet in  Tunisia  today to seek ways to
oust Assad. Russia and  China , which are not attending, have
blocked United Nations Security Council resolutions calling for
a change of government.  The Arab Organization for Human Rights estimates that more
than 8,500 people have been killed in  Syria . A UN-appointed
commission reported yesterday that there was evidence top-level
Syrian officials are responsible for “crimes against humanity
and other gross human rights violations.”  Assad has accused unidentified foreign interests of
providing weapons and financial support to “armed terrorist
groups” as they seek to destabilize Syria.  Syrian troops also attacked Karm al-Zeytoun today and
opened fire on protesters in the southern province of Daraa,
according to the observatory, while opposition supporters
rallied in Aleppo, near the border with  Turkey . The government
beefed up security in the port city of Latakia and Banias, it
said. Al Jazeera television reported that Syrian troops fired on
protesters in the Aasali area of Damascus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 