-- U.K. Police Arrest Two Men in Reporters’ Computer-Hacking Probe
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-02-24T19:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/u-k-police-arrest-two-men-in-reporters-computer-hacking-probe.html
London  police arrested two men and
searched one of their homes as part of a computer-hacking probe
triggered by  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s phone-hacking scandal.  The men, 50 and 51, who the police didn’t identify by name,
were arrested at addresses in Hertfordshire, north of London,
and Surrey, by officers in the computer-hacking probe known as
Operation Tuleta, the Metropolitan Police said today in an e-
mailed statement. It’s the third arrest in the probe.  Labour party lawmaker  Tom Watson , a member of the U.K.
Parliament’s Culture, Media and Sport Committee that is
investigating phone hacking at News Corp.’s now-defunct News of
the World tabloid, said in August he thought computer hacking
would become the next scandal facing  Rupert Murdoch ’s company.
In an e-mail earlier this month, he said police were probing the
company’s Times newspaper over e-mail hacking.  The Times’s editor, James Harding, told a judge-led inquiry
into media ethics last month that a reporter at the 227-year-old
newspaper had gained unauthorized access to an e-mail account to
get information for a story.  The phone-hacking scandal prompted News Corp. to shutter
the News of the World tabloid in July, while several editors and
reporters were arrested. A parallel probe of police bribery by
reporters has already led to the arrests of 10 current and
former employees at New York-based News Corp.’s Sun tabloid.  Former British Army intelligence officer Ian Hurst sued
News Corp.’s London-based News International unit over claims it
hired a computer expert to hack into his e-mail. Actress  Sienna Miller  told the judicial inquiry last year that she suspected
her computer had been accessed by the media in 2008, though she
didn’t say which paper.  The Independent Police Complaints Commission said earlier
today it is investigating an allegation that a police officer
leaked information during the initial 2006 phone-hacking probe.
The agency said the officer hasn’t been suspended and there
isn’t evidence that he received an inappropriate payments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  