-- U.K. Economy Shrank in Fourth Quarter as Companies Scaled Back Investment
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-02-24T11:40:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/u-k-economy-shrank-in-fourth-quarter-as-companies-scaled-back-investment.html
The U.K. economy shrank in the
fourth quarter as companies scaled back investment, underscoring
the risks to a recovery that  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  says will be “slow and uncertain.”  Gross domestic product  dropped 0.2 percent from the third
quarter, the same as previously estimated, the  Office for
National Statistics  said in  London  today. Economist predicted no
revision, according to the median of 36  forecasts  in a Bloomberg
survey. Business investment fell 5.6 percent, the most since the
first quarter of 2011.  A 0.5 percent rise in  consumer spending , the first increase
for 1 1/2 years, fuelled optimism that Britain will avoid
recession. Still, King said Feb. 15 the central bank is ready to
 expand stimulus  further if needed to aid an economy facing
“substantial headwinds.”  Unemployment (UKUEILOR)  is climbing, credit is
tight and the government is pushing through the deepest budget
cuts in British peacetime.  “We’re pretty certain to see a minor positive number in
the first quarter and so are going to avoid a technical
recession, but the basic story is one of essentially zero growth
through to the summer,” said  Brian Hilliard , an economist at
Societe Generale SA in London and a former Bank of England
official. “We do need to see a turnaround in investment before
we can start to turn a little more optimistic.”  The pound gained against the dollar, buoyed by the bigger-
than-forecast increase in consumer spending, and
was trading at $1.5816 as of 11:36 a.m. in London, up 0.5
percent on the day. The yield on the 10-year gilt dropped two
basis points to 2.08 percent.  Optimism  Greece ’s 130 billion-euro ($173 billion) rescue, agreed on
by euro-area finance chiefs this week, has buoyed optimism that
the debt crisis gripping Britain’s biggest export market has
been tamed for now.  German gross domestic product fell  0.2 percent  in the
fourth quarter as the sovereign debt crisis damped demand across
the euro region and curtailed exports from  Europe ’s largest
economy, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today,
confirming an initial estimate published on Feb. 15.  France ’s
economy grew 0.2 percent during the period, helping to limit
the euro-area economy’s contraction to 0.3 percent.  U.K. purchasing management indexes of manufacturing and
services rose in January. Most Bank of England officials argued
this month that “growth might be stronger than expected in the
near term,” minutes of their Feb. 8-9 policy meeting showed.
The FTSE 100 index has gained almost 7 percent this year.  Business Investment  The fall in  business investment  wiped 0.5 percentage point
from GDP in the fourth quarter. Its impact was mitigated by
consumer spending, which added 0.3 points in a sign that
households are starting to see their finances improve after ther
biggest squeeze on incomes since at least the 1970s. Exports
gained 2.3 percent and net trade contributed 0.6 point to GDP.
Companies added stocks at a quarter of the pace of the previous
three months, wiping 0.5 point, the statistics office said.  From a year earlier, GDP rose 0.7 percent in the fourth
quarter instead of the 0.8 percent estimated last month.
Services -- the largest part of the economy -- were unchanged
over the quarter. In December alone, they grew 0.2 percent from
the previous month.  Industrial production  fell 1.4 percent in
the fourth quarter from the third, with manufacturing shrinking
0.8 percent. Construction industries contracted by 0.5 percent.  With the government constrained by its pledge to all but
eradicate a budget deficit of 9 percent of GDP, the onus for
spurring growth remains on the Bank of England. Policy makers
voted to expand their bond-buying program by 50 billion pounds
to 325 billion pounds this month, with two arguing for a larger
increase.  Weak Recovery  The economy has recovered barely a half of the 7 percent of
output lost during the 2008-2009 recession  -- only Japan and
 Italy  are further behind among Group of Seven nations -- and
unemployment is at a 16-year high of 8.4 percent and rising. In
current prices, the compensation of employees fell 0.3 percent
in the fourth quarter.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  says the warning from Moody’s
Investors Service that Britain could lose its top  credit rating 
reinforces the need to stick to his 150 billion-pound budget-
cutting program, which will see 700,000 government jobs axed by
2017.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Svenja O’Donnell} in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  