-- Consumer Sentiment in U.S. Reaches One-Year High on Jobs Outlook: Economy
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-02-24T21:53:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/u-s-michigan-consumer-sentiment-index-rises-more-than-estimated-to-75-3.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers rose
more than forecast in February, reaching a one-year high as
Americans grew more upbeat about the outlook for the economy.  The Thomson Reuters/University of  Michigan final  index of
consumer sentiment increased to 75.3 this month from 75 in
January. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey called
for 73, after a preliminary reading of 72.5. New-home sales last
month were stronger than projected, another report showed.  Three straight months of faster job growth along with a
stock market rally since late 2011 are helping keep Americans
optimistic in the face of rising  gasoline prices . Further gains
in confidence may sustain the household spending that accounts
for about 70 percent of the economy.  “The overwhelming fact is that the job market has gotten
better,” said  Bill Cheney , chief economist for John Hancock
Financial Services Inc. in  Boston , who projected a gain.
“People are back to spending most of the additional income that
they get, so as employment increases and you get some meager
increases in wages, they do feed through to more spending.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose to its highest level
since June 2008, climbing 0.2 percent to 1,365.74 at the close
of trading in  New York . The yield on the benchmark 10-year
Treasury note fell to 1.98 percent from 2 percent late
yesterday.  Purchases of  new homes  declined 0.9 percent in January to a
321,000 annual rate from a 324,000 pace in December that was
stronger than previously reported, Commerce Department figures
showed in  Washington . The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey
called for 315,000 pace last month.  Fed Policy  Still, new-home sales are down 77 percent from their 2005
peak, a reason some Federal Reserve policy makers are seeking
ways to bolster the industry that precipitated the last
recession.  “Housing is a major factor in the deep downturn and
sluggish recovery we’ve experienced in recent years,” Federal
Reserve Bank of San Francisco President John C. Williams said
today at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business’s
U.S. Monetary Policy Forum in New York. “An aggregate-demand
shortfall is something monetary policy can be, should be, and is
addressing.”  Estimates for sentiment in the Bloomberg  survey  of 60
economists ranged from 71 to 76. The index averaged 64.2 during
the last recession. The gauge averaged 89 in the five years
before the 18-month recession that ended in June 2009.  Consumer Expectations  The Michigan survey’s index of  consumer expectations  for
six months from now, which more closely projects the direction
of  consumer spending , rose to a one-year high of 70.3 this month
from 69.1 in January.  The gauge of  current conditions , which reflects Americans’
perceptions of their financial situation and whether they
consider it a good time to buy big-ticket items like cars,
decreased to 83 from 84.2 the prior month.  Escalating fuel costs still pose a risk to sentiment as
they eat into households’ incomes. A gallon of regular unleaded
gasoline  climbed  to $3.65 yesterday, the highest since Sept. 11,
from $3.28 at the end of 2011, according to AAA, the nation’s
largest automobile association. Fuel prices dropped to a 10-
month low of $3.21 on Dec. 20.  “If the predictions come true that the gas gets to be
close to $5 this summer, that is not good for our business,
that’s not good for the consumer, it takes away discretionary
dollars,” Mike Riccio, chief financial officer at furniture
maker  La-Z-Boy Inc. (LZB) , said during a Feb. 22 conference call. “We
got a mindful eye on that.”  Job Growth  Better job growth and reduced job cuts may provide an
offset. The  unemployment rate  in January declined to 8.3
percent, the lowest since February 2009, while the economy
generated 243,000 jobs, the most in nine months, Labor
Department data showed on Feb. 3.  Higher stock prices are making Americans feel wealthier.
The  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  rose above 13,000 this week for
the first time since May 2008. The index gained 22 percent
through yesterday after a recent low on Oct. 3.  The nation’s housing market is stabilizing, today’s
Commerce Department figures showed. The gain in January sales
brought the number of homes for sale to the lowest on record,
signaling builders may not have to cutback much more.  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL)  and D.R. Horton Inc. are among builders
benefiting from job growth as well as cheaper properties and
record-low  mortgage rates .  “We’re optimistic,” Doug Yearley, chief executive officer
at Horsham, Pennsylvania-based Toll Brothers, said in a Feb. 22
interview with Bloomberg Television. “We have orders that are
up significantly. We’re seeing deposits up, we’re seeing traffic
up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  