-- U.S. Recovery at Risk From Oil Surge, Rosenberg Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-02-24T20:05:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/u-s-recovery-at-risk-from-oil-surge-rosenberg-says-tom-keene.html
Higher  oil prices , the threat of a
European recession and an uncertain tax policy that may derail
the economic recovery have convinced the  Federal Reserve  to keep
 interest rates  low, according to Gluskin Sheff & Associates
Inc.’s  David Rosenberg .  “They recognize that, although we have positive growth,
the risks are squarely to the downside,” Rosenberg, chief
economist at Gluskin in Toronto, said today in a radio interview
on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.  The central bank, seeking to fuel growth and avert
deflation, pushed interest rates near zero in December 2008 and
has held them steady since then. Policy makers in January
pledged to keep the rate low at least through late 2014.  “I’m not sure I would make the recession call right now
the base case,” Rosenberg said. “But I think the odds are a
lot higher than most Wall Street economists have in their
forecasts or, frankly, how the  capital markets  are priced right
now.”  The price of oil rose above $109 for the first time in nine
months today and is in the midst of its longest streak of
advances in more than two years. Rosenberg said that for each
additional penny at the gas pump, $1.5 billion is strained out
of household cash flow.  “By May we’re going to be talking about gasoline prices
breaking a new high, between $4 and $5,” he said.  Recession in Europe  U.S. exports are threatened by the impact from recession in
the euro zone, the nation’s top trade partner, he said.  “That’s going to come with a lag,” he said, “just as the
U.S. recession hit  Europe  with a lag three years ago.”  Uncertainty in the  tax rate  in this election year, in which
personal and corporate rates are a major campaign issue, is
going to affect the savings rate going into the second half of
the year, he said.  “You get companies that are going to hoard more cash and
households that are going to be building up their savings rate
for that rainy day,” he said. “That’s going to have a material
impact on the economy in the second half of the year.”  As policy makers move forward, Rosenberg said,  Canada 
should be used as the model. He said Canada in the early 1990s
hit a “debt wall” and had to go through radical fiscal
austerity.  The majority government at the time dismantled the social
infrastructure, he said, brushing aside issues such as social
security and guaranteed-income supplements. Taxes were raised
and retirement ages were lifted as policy makers made all the
“tough decisions.”  “Sometimes checks and balances works,” Rosenberg said.
“But when you’re in a period where you need strong leadership
and have no room for compromise, you need decisive action.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Austen Sherman in New York at 
 asherman18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  