-- Jerry Sandusky Records From Penn State University Sought by U.S. Attorney
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-02-25T05:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/u-s-attorney-seeks-ex-assistant-jerry-sandusky-s-records-from-penn-state.html
The U.S. Attorney’s Office
subpoenaed records in the sexual-abuse case of former
 Pennsylvania  State University assistant football coach Jerry Sandusky.  Penn State  received the request around Feb. 2 from U.S.
Attorney Peter J. Smith in the Harrisburg, Pennsylvania office,
said Lisa Powers, a spokeswoman for the university. The U.S. is
seeking information about Sandusky, the charity he founded, the
university, former Penn State President  Graham Spanier , Athletic
Director Tim Curley and  Gary Schultz , a former senior vice
president at the school.  “The board of trustees is cooperating fully with the U.S.
attorney’s investigation,” Karen B. Peetz, the board’s
chairwoman, said yesterday in a statement on the university’s
website. “The victims, the Penn State community and the public
deserve to know the facts and see that justice is done.”  The U.S. is requesting information from 1998 to the
present, as well as records of any payments by board members to
the university or to third parties on the university’s behalf,
Powers said in an e-mail. The subpoena also seeks reporting
requirements of employers and staff relating to allegations of
misconduct by staff or people associated with the university,
Powers said.  Assisting State Probe  Smith said in November that he would assist state Attorney
General Linda Kelly with the Sandusky investigation and
prosecution as needed. Smith said at the time that his office
also was assisting the U.S. Education Department in its
investigation into whether Penn State violated federal laws
requiring colleges and universities to report suspected criminal
activity to campus police or  law enforcement .  The U.S. asked the university to preserve e-mails, board
meeting minutes, minutes of executive session meetings,
disclosure reports, computer histories and hard drives,
according to a copy of the subpoena posted on the university’s
website. Smith extended the Feb. 29 deadline for compliance due
to the volume of documents requested, Peetz said in the
statement. A grand jury was scheduled to convene on Feb. 29,
according to the subpoena.  Nils Frederiksen, a spokesman for Kelly, declined to
comment on whether the subpoena is part of a joint
investigation. Heidi Havens, a spokeswoman for Smith in
Harrisburg, also declined to comment.  May Trial  Sandusky, 68, a former defensive coordinator for Penn
State’s football team, is charged with more than 50 counts
stemming from the alleged abuse of boys during a 15-year period.
He is scheduled to go on trial in May.  The case led to last year’s firings of Spanier and head
football coach  Joe Paterno , who died last month. Schultz, who
was once in charge of university police, and Curley are charged
with lying to a grand jury about a 2002 sex-abuse allegation
against Sandusky and failing to report the incident to police.  Joseph Amendola, Sandusky’s attorney, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  The Sandusky case is Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v.
Sandusky, CP-14-2422-2011, Court of Common Pleas, Centre County,
Pennsylvania (Bellefonte).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  