-- Ukraine to Auction Production Stakes in Two Natural Gas Fields
-- B y   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a   a n d   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2012-02-24T15:41:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/ukraine-to-auction-production-stakes-in-two-natural-gas-fields.html
Ukraine  plans to auction the rights
to as much as 70 percent of production at two natural-gas
deposits as it seeks to cut reliance on Russian imports.  “The tender will take place by April 23,” Maryna
Pekarchuk, a spokeswoman for the State Geology and Resources
Service, said by telephone. “We expect big international
companies to participate.”  Exxon Mobil Corp. and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  are among
companies searching for shale gas in Ukraine, which has  Europe ’s
fourth-largest deposits of the so-called unconventional fuel,
according to the U.S. Energy Department. The Yuzivska deposit in
east Ukraine and Oleska field in the west contain conventional
gas, shale gas and other hydrocarbons, according to government
decrees dated Nov. 30 and published on the cabinet’s website.  The agreements will last for 50 years and the winners of
the auction will receive no more than 70 percent of  production 
with the government getting no less than 15 percent, according
to the resolution.  Ukraine’s TOV SPK-Geoservice and state-run PAT NAK Nadra
Ukrainy will set up a venture to participate in the production
sharing agreements, Pekarchuk said today.  Exxon signed an agreement with Ukraine’s state-run oil and
gas company NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy a year ago to cooperate in
exploration for unconventional gas. Exxon seeks to estimate
potential for shale gas, coal-bed methane, tight gas and other
unconventional sources in the country. Shale gas is natural gas
produced by injecting water and chemicals into shale rock. Coal-
bed methane is extracted from coal seams.  Eni, Cadogan  Eni SpA (ENI)  and  Cadogan Petroleum Plc (CAD)  announced plans in
November to explore and extract shale gas in western Ukraine,
the State Geology and Resources Service said. The companies
planned to spend about $55 million exploring for shale gas in
the Lviv basin from 2012 through 2015, the Geology and Resource
Service said in a  statement  on its website on Nov. 28.  Shell and Eni have expressed interest in extracting shale
gas in Ukraine, Coal and Energy Minister  Yuriy Boyko  said on
Aug. 23. TNK-BP plans to bid for Ukrainian shale gas licenses
and will use BP Plc’s technology to tap deposits, Didier
Casimiro, who heads its Ukraine operations, said in June.  Ukraine holds 42 trillion cubic feet of shale gas, the
Energy Department’s Energy Information Administration said in
April. The country consumed 1.88 trillion cubic feet of gas in
2010, most of which was imported from  Russia , according to the
EIA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kateryna Choursina in Moscow at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net ;
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  