-- Turkey’s Leaders Are Failing to Live Up to Their Own Model: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-02-24T00:00:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/turkey-s-leaders-are-failing-to-live-up-to-their-own-democracy-model-view.html
It’s by now axiomatic that
democratic,  prosperous , NATO member  Turkey  offers a valuable
model for more troubled countries in the  Middle East  to follow.
That remains broadly true, but Turkey itself appears to be
losing its way.  This isn’t because the country’s neo-Islamist government is
turning the country into an Iranian-style theocratic state.
After two terms in office, it hasn’t. The problem, different but
worrying, is that the improved democracy Turkey’s ruling  Justice
and Development Party  so impressively began a decade ago is in
retreat.  The latest sign came just last week. The government was
shocked to find that prosecutors, whom it previously armed with
special powers to root out terrorists, were now trying to arrest
the government’s handpicked intelligence chiefs. The crime was
doing their job: namely, talking to members of the Kurdistan
Workers’ Party, a listed terrorist organization better known as
the PKK.  Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s response was both
distressing and revealing. He pushed through legislation that
requires prosecutors to first obtain his permission before they
can investigate officials acting under his orders. That gave him
the power to exempt a chosen few from deeply flawed laws that
apply to the rest of the nation.  Power Struggle  Erdogan said he was merely ensuring that “the elected will
never be slaves to the appointed.” Doubtless he was sincere.
But his decision will do nothing for the rule of law, nor for
the democracy he said he was trying to protect.  Erdogan should instead redraft Turkey’s anti-terrorism laws
to end abuses not just against his proteges, but also against
thousands of others, including his opponents. Sadly, Turkey’s
special prosecutors have been running amok for several years
already. That’s why a  report  by the Council of  Europe ’s human
rights commissioner, published in January, urged Turkey to
“review the need for assize courts with special powers.”  Turkey is hardly the only government to have trouble
balancing civil liberties with the special challenges involved
in shutting down terrorist organizations. But Turkey’s terrorism
laws aren’t just being used against al-Qaeda suspects. They’re
also used against military officers, journalists, academics,
defense lawyers and thousands of ethnic Kurds accused in broad,
increasingly implausible terrorist conspiracies. Often charges
are based on what, in other judicial systems, would be
considered free speech.  These abuses are compounded by the routine manner in which
Turkish judges agree to deny defendants bail. Many of those
accused have been in jail for years, some for a decade, as they
await trial. This amounts to routine summary punishment of the
presumed innocent.  Roughly 100 journalists and publishers are in Turkish
jails, one of the highest incarceration rates for members of the
news media in the world. More than 200 military officers are
also behind bars, charged in a series of alleged plots to topple
the government with names such as Ergenekon, Sledgehammer and
Action Plan Against Reactionary (read Islamist) Forces.  This month, they were joined by General Ilker Basbug, who
was Chief of the General Staff, the top commander of NATO’s
second largest military, until 2010. He has been charged with
heading an armed terrorist organization.  Since 2009, special prosecutors have also turned on ethnic
Kurds, rolling up an umbrella group that draws together Kurdish
nationalists of all stripes. By November, 7,748 people had been
detained and about half of them jailed pending trial as part of
this operation, according to the main Kurdish political party.  Falling in Ranks  Small wonder, then, that Turkey has been sliding down
international indicators of media freedoms and is now regularly
upbraided by the same EU and human rights organizations that
once lauded Erdogan and his party for ending capital punishment,
among other important advances. In last year’s annual ranking by
the Paris-based group Reporters Without Borders, Turkey placed
148th out of 179 countries, a fall of 50 places since 2005. At
the same time, the number of Turkish cases filed at the  European
Court  of Human Rights in Strasbourg has  soared  -- to 7,749 last
year, more than double the number in 2008.  The government, to its credit, recognizes it has a problem.
In January, Turkey’s justice minister proposed 88 legal
amendments aimed at correcting failures of the judicial system.
These measures include rescinding cases for offenses committed
via the media if they carry maximum penalties below five years
in jail, as well as ending summary suspensions of newspapers.
Overall, though, given that most terrorism-related charges carry
penalties above five years in jail, the changes are likely to
have limited impact.  None of this should be seen as invalidating the so-called
Turkish model. Erdogan’s formula of delivering economic
prosperity in a free market, where the military takes a back
seat to elected officials and an Islamic-leaning government
rules under a secular constitution, remains a potent one.
Turkey, if anything, is today a more necessary ally for
 Washington  and the European Union than at any time in recent
memory.  But it is up to leaders in the EU and the U.S. to do what
they can to persuade Erdogan and his government to revert to the
reforms of his first term in office. Otherwise, when it comes to
vital areas such as media freedom and the rule of law, Turkey
may have nothing good to teach.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 