-- China Luxury Surge Pits L’Oreal Against Chiang Kai-Shek Descendant: Retail
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-24T02:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/luxury-surge-pits-l-oreal-against-chiang-kai-shek-descendent-retail.html
Global brands from L’Oreal SA to
Gucci face new competition in their race for a share of the
$33.7 billion Chinese  luxury market : homegrown Chinese brands.  Shanghai Jahwa United Co. (600315) , established more than a century
ago, sells a revamped line of products, including 1,000 yuan
($159) perfumes, whose package is designed by Demos Chiang,
great grandson of the nationalist leader and  Taiwan ’s first
president Chiang Kai-Shek.  Eve Group  has more than 400 boutiques
which sell its own brand of luxury menswear to clients that
include Chinese film director Zhang Yimou and martial arts actor
 Jet Li . Other Chinese luxury brands are appealing to a nation of
consumers yearning to celebrate their country’s long history and
rich cultural heritage.  “China’s manufacturing was very backward 30 years ago, and
consumers worshiped and pandered foreign goods and ideas,”
Jahwa Chairman Ge Wenyao said. “Foreign products are still good
but the aura surrounding their brands is no longer there.”  The move to pricier offerings is a shift for  China ’s
consumer industry, which has been mostly associated with cheap
knockoffs. As Chinese consumer brands become more ambitious they
may pose a bigger threat to luxury and high-end brands in China.  “There’s no reason China won’t be able to develop its own
luxury brands,” said Ashok Sethi, Shanghai-based head of
consumer insights at TNS Research International. “Many
international brands make their products in China.”  Luxury good demand in China has risen with increased wealth
and growth in the world’s second-biggest economy. The number of
millionaire households in the country climbed 31 percent in 2010
to 1.11 million, ranking China third behind the U.S. and  Japan ,
according to a Boston Consulting Group survey last year.  Fastest-Growing Market  Luxury-sales growth in the world’s most populous nation
will slow in 2012 from an estimated pace of at least 20 percent
last year, said Katherine Chan, an analyst at Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc in  Hong Kong . The luxury goods purchases in China
and by Chinese consumers reached a total of 212 billion yuan
last year,  Bain & Co.  said in December.  Shanghai Jahwa, whose products include shampoos and kitchen
cleaners, is trying to sell more high-end Made-in-China products
under its  Herborist  brand, which is based on Chinese medicine
and is sold in 1,200 stores across the country.  The company’s products are sold through  LVMH Moet Hennessy
Louis Vuitton SA (MC) ’s Sephora unit at 200 shops around  Europe ,
including Paris and Milan, where it recorded sales of 4 million
euros last year.  A L’Oreal media officer, who asked not to be identified
because of company policy, declined to comment on competition
with local high-end brands.  Two Sisters  The Shanghai-based company also revived in 2010 a 114-year-
old cosmetic brand called  Shanghai VIVE , or “Two Sisters” in
Chinese. Chiang helped redesign the brand when it was
reintroduced in 2010. Its 890 yuan, 50 milliliters perfume is
comparable with fragrance of the same size, such as 760 yuan
Gucci Guilty Toilette, 900 yuan Guerlain Idylle and 980 yuan
Christian Dior SA’s Midnight Poison.  Jahwa has the manufacturing know-how and it needs foreign
talents and expertise in branding and marketing to help develop
its products, Chairman Ge said. The company hired a former
designer of Salvatore Ferragamo SpA to design its scarves. Jahwa
has eight VIVE shops in Shanghai and Beijing with plans to
accelerate store openings and expanding to overseas markets, the
company said. It wouldn’t disclose financial details for the
brand.  Luxury Menswear  Beijing-based Eve Group has four foreign-named labels --
Eve de Uomo,  Notting Hill ,  Kevin Kelly  and Jaques Pritt. Its
ready-to-wear clothes under the Kevin Kelly label are sold for
as much as about 20,000 yuan. Its fifth label, called Eve Cina,
will be introduced this year with designs of Chinese elements.  China Garments Co. (000902) , another luxury menswear maker, plans
domestic collections that will be made in  Italy  by Raffaele
Caruso SpA, which makes menswear for brands including  Christian
Dior SA. (CDI)  Its claim: the company offers clothes comparable with
top international brands but 20 percent cheaper.  “Ten years ago people looked down on Chinese brands,”
Zhan Yingjie, chief executive officer of Beijing-based China
Garments, which is introducing made-to-wear and ready-to-wear
clothes. “The situation now is different. China has the ability
to create its own brand and can operate a luxury brand very
well.”  Appeal to Pride  Over time, brands that play up their Chinese lineage may
benefit as shoppers become more patriotic, said Nick Debnam, a
Hong Kong-based head of consumer markets at KPMG China.  “It’s a pride for Chinese culture,” Sethi from TNS said.
“Chinese are extremely proud of their years of history and
culture,”  Some European luxury brands are positioning themselves to
be part of the rise of Chinese luxury brands. Shang Xia, which
is owned by  Hermes International SCA (RMS) , aims to appeal to
customers domestically and abroad and promote Chinese heritage,
handicraft and philosophy, Chief Executive Officer Jiang Qiong-
er said in an interview.  Shang Xia , which means “Up-Down” in Chinese, was founded
by Jiang and Hermes in 2008 with the French maker of Birkin bags
and silk scarves serving as a majority shareholder.  Chinese Heritage  “What we are doing is to revive Chinese traditional
heritage and to add functionality to them for people’s daily
life,” said Jiang, wearing a black suit and a Shang Xia-branded
dragon ball style necklace.  Its only shop in Shanghai’s major shopping area on Huaihai
Road sells jewelry, clothing, furniture and leather goods based
on Chinese styles with prices ranging from a 880,000 yuan
rocking chair made from Zitan wood, a precious wood favored by
Chinese emperors, to a 150,000 yuan Chinese Mahjong set, and a
25,000 yuan porcelain Chinese tea set. It plans to open its
first boutique outside China in Paris’s Rue de Sevres and
China’s second store in Beijing.  Challenges  Chinese brands may still have their work cut out for them
at home before they reach the level of the most prestigious
European brands.  “Part of the reason for foreign brands being so desirable
in the luxury segment is because of their foreignness, said Tim
York, head of planning at advertising agency J. Walter Thompson.
‘‘They immediately convey status. If you are a local luxury
brand, there isn’t a lot happening in your favor unless you are
very established and very world renowned.’’  Gaining that acceptance also takes time, branding experts
say.  ‘‘A brand needs at least 15 years to build,’’ said Lu Kun,
Shanghai-based fashion designer who has made clothes for  Paris Hilton . ‘‘A brand needs history.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Wong in  Shanghai  at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bret Okeson at 
 bokeson@bloomberg.net  