-- Vietnam Could See Biggest Gain in Pacific Trade Group, U.S. Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-24T09:13:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/vietnam-could-see-biggest-gain-in-pacific-trade-group-u-s-says.html
Vietnam  has the most to gain among
the nine countries negotiating the Trans Pacific Partnership
because the deal would boost access to the U.S. market for goods
such as textiles, an American official said.  The trade accord would “lock in access” to the U.S. and
boost the Southeast Asian nation’s attractiveness overseas,
Deputy U.S. Trade Representative Demetrios Marantis said at a
press conference today in Hanoi. Investors would begin to
consider opportunities in Vietnam after the TPP is implemented
much as they are now in Myanmar, he said, after that country’s
democratic opening.  “The challenge for the negotiators is to be able to
realize something that will work well for both countries,”
Marantis said. “We will have challenges on textiles, which is a
very important export interest to Vietnam, but where we have, in
the U.S., import sensitivities.”  Vietnam was the  second largest seller  of textiles and
apparel to the U.S. in 2011 after  China , according to data from
the U.S. International Trade Commission. Pledged foreign direct
investment in Vietnam fell 54.5 percent to $1.23 billion in the
first two months of 2012 from a year earlier, Vietnam’s Foreign
Investment Agency of the Ministry of Planning and Investment
said today.  The Obama administration is in negotiations on the TPP
trade agreement with  Australia , Chile, Peru,  Singapore ,
Malaysia,  New Zealand , Brunei and Vietnam. Two-way trade between
the U.S. and Vietnam totaled $21.8 billion last year, according
to U.S. Commerce Department  data .  The 11th round of TPP negotiations will be held March 1-19
in Melbourne, Australia, according to the Office of the United
States Trade Representative  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Heath in Hanoi at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  