-- Vietnam Reining in Asia’s Fastest Inflation
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-24T05:49:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/vietnam-s-inflation-slows-to-16-44-in-february-report-shows.html
Vietnam is making headway against
 Asia ’s fastest  inflation  as prices rise the least in 11 months,
an easing that may boost confidence in its economic policy
making as the nation struggles to spur foreign investment.  Consumer prices climbed 16.44 percent in February from a
year earlier, the General Statistics Office said in Hanoi today.
Pledged foreign direct investment in Vietnam fell 54.5 percent
to $1.23 billion in the first two months of 2012 from a year
earlier, the Foreign Investment Agency of the Ministry of
Planning and Investment said separately.  Easing inflation provides scope for the central bank to cut
interest rates, after it signaled last month that it may lower
borrowing costs to “more suitable” levels. The government
rolled out the so-called Resolution 11 strategy to tame prices,
restrain credit growth and stabilize the currency a year ago,
constraining its ability to loosen policy even as Europe’s debt
crisis hurt Asian economies.  “It shows that  Vietnam  has been quite effective in
tightening policy not just through interest-rate movements but
also by administrative measures,” said Trinh D Nguyen, a Hong
Kong-based economist at HSBC Holdings Plc. “We expect the  State
Bank  of Vietnam to lower rates by the end of this quarter or the
beginning of the second quarter. Inflation will probably go down
to single digits by year end.”  The Ho Chi Minh City Stock Exchange’s  VN Index (VNINDEX)  rose as much
as 1.3 percent before closing little changed today. It’s climbed
20 percent this year, the best performance in Asia, while the
Vietnamese dong has gained about 1 percent against the  U.S.
dollar .  Fastest Inflation  The nation still has the fastest inflation among 17 Asia-
Pacific economies tracked by Bloomberg, and consumer prices rose
1.37 percent  this month  from January.  The central bank last cut the repurchase rate in July and
the  refinancing rate  in 2009, even as policy makers from
 Indonesia  to the Philippines have reduced borrowing costs to
shield growth. While cooling price pressures may provide scope
for the central bank to cut interest rates, oil costs pose a
threat that may delay monetary easing, according to Standard
Chartered Plc.  “The immediate threat to the inflation outlook is still
moderate, but one new factor that has come in recently is higher
 oil prices ,” said Tai Hui, the Singapore-based head of
Southeast Asian economics at Standard Chartered. He expects
Vietnam to cut rates in the first quarter, with a possible delay
to the second quarter should price pressures remain elevated.  Australia’s Rates  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region, Australian central
bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  said today the country’s benchmark
interest rate is “about right for the moment” as economic growth
is close to trend and concerns ease that  Europe ’s debt crisis
will disrupt global output.  Singapore ’s industrial production fell the most in eight
months in January as factories reduced output during the Lunar
New Year holiday and demand for electronics eased, a report
showed today. Manufacturing slid 8.8 percent from a year earlier.  In the U.S., purchases of new homes probably rose in
January to a nine-month high, more evidence the housing market
is improving, economists said before a report today. Sales,
tabulated when contracts are signed, climbed 2.6 percent to a
315,000 annual pace, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 77 economists.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of
consumer sentiment fell to 73 in February from 75 a month
earlier, according to the median in a separate Bloomberg survey.
The preliminary reading for this month was 72.5.  U.K. Contracts  The U.K. economy shrank 0.2 percent last quarter from the
previous three months, according to the median of 36 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey ahead of a report due today. German
gross domestic product probably contracted by the same pace, a
separate survey showed.  Vietnam’s central bank signaled last month that it may cut
rates to “more suitable” levels after the first quarter and
this month, Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung ordered the central
bank to “solve” within the first quarter a shortage of funds
among lenders and to closely monitor the market in order to
reduce lending  interest rates  to appropriate levels.  Disbursed foreign direct investment was $1 billion in the
first two months of the year, a drop of 9 percent from the same
period in 2011, according to the foreign investment agency.  Pressure to Ease  “There is now pressure to ease monetary policy as growth
remains moderate and inflation continues to fall,” Hai Pham, a
Singapore-based analyst at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd., said before the inflation report.  Europe’s debt crisis has hurt Asian exporters from
Singapore to  Taiwan . Gross domestic product in Vietnam, a
manufacturing site for companies such as  Intel Corp ., grew 5.89
percent in 2011, down from 6.78 percent the previous year.  Still, the  International Monetary Fund  and the  World Bank 
have said the country must guard against loosening monetary
policy too soon.  Price gains this year have been driven by the Lunar New
Year holiday in January and an electricity price increase in
December. The  Finance Ministry  this week eliminated import
tariffs on gasoline, cut taxes on diesel and kerosene, and
ordered fuel retailers to keep prices of petroleum products
“stable” in a bid to check inflation.  --Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City , with assistance from
Shamim Adam in Singapore, Minh Bui in  Tokyo  and  Nicholas Heath 
and K. Oanh Ha in Hanoi. Editors: Rina Chandran, Stephanie Phang  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  