-- Virgin Media, Morrison Hire Lease-Breakers to Cut Bill
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-02-24T12:08:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/virgin-media-morrison-hire-lease-breakers-to-cut-their-real-estate-bills.html
Virgin Media Inc. (VMED)  and  William
Morrison Supermarkets Plc (MRW)  became the latest companies to seek
outside help disposing of surplus rental properties in the U.K.
to cut costs.  Virgin Media, the broadband provider that’s the U.K.’s
second-largest pay-television company, agreed to transfer 28
surplus offices to  Legacy Portfolio Ltd. , according to an e-
mailed statement from Cushman & Wakefield Inc. that didn’t
disclose the financial terms.  Morrison, the U.K.’s fourth-largest supermarket chain,
transferred 28 surplus stores and other commercial properties to
Surplus Property Solutions Ltd., or SPS, in a multi-million-
pound transaction, Cushman said. The U.S. property broker
advised Virgin Media and Morrison.  The deals “demonstrate how the market is continuing to
mature,” said Matthew Stone, a London-based partner at Cushman.
He referred to lease liability transfer deals struck in the past
18 months involving Wolseley Plc and Carillion Plc.  Under the transfers, London-based Legacy Portfolio and
 Glasgow-based SPS  will assume the costs relating to the rented
properties from the tenants and try to reduce them as quickly
and as cheaply as possible. They will receive an upfront fee
covering only part of the total costs until the leases expire
for the properties, which include insurance, security, taxes,
maintenance and utilities in addition to rent.  Legacy will take over 530,000 square feet (49,240 square
meters) of  office space  across the U.K., allowing Virgin Media
“to focus on adding value to our operational estate of over 650
properties,”  Paul Harris , Virgin’s executive director of
property, said in the statement.  The outsourcing companies make money by keeping whatever is
left over from the upfront fee. They seek to dispose of the
unwanted leases, removing lease-related costs for Virgin and
Morrison.  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  advised Legacy on the Virgin deal
and acted for SPS on the Morrison transfer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 