-- Vodafone, Telefonica Start Barcelona Race to Boost Prices
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-02-24T08:26:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/vodafone-telefonica-start-barcelona-speed-race-to-boost-prices.html
After years of sliding prices for
wireless service in  Europe ,  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ,  Telefonica SA (TEF) 
and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  now have a shot at halting that trend by
getting customers hooked on faster mobile technology.  As handset manufacturers such as  ZTE Corp. (000063)  and  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) 
prepare to use the  Mobile World Congress  in Barcelona next week
to show devices capable of handling data downloads using the
long-term evolution technology rolled out in the U.S. about a
year ago, operators are seeking to capitalize on the appeal of
faster mobile transmission, starting with Germany, Europe’s
biggest wireless market.  Phone companies need to bolster strained networks as more
customers use increasingly high-quality video, sound and games.
While U.S. carriers like  Verizon Wireless (VZ)  are pushing LTE as a
means to move traffic off congested airwaves and have largely
avoided price increases, European operators may have a chance to
lift revenue with customers willing to pay more for the service.  “When you have a faster connection like that, it saves you
a lot of time,” said Roque  da Silva , a 27-year-old Capoeira
teacher from  Brazil , while looking for new wireless plans at
Vodafone’s store on Frankfurt’s main shopping street. Da Silva
would readily pay a premium for faster access to videos and
sites like  Facebook Inc (FB) .’s social network. “Downloads just take
too long right now,” he said.  ’Signal Effect’  LTE offers higher up- and download speeds and latency, or
response time, that’s three times quicker on average than
previous technology. Vodafone, which will be first to the German
market on March 1 with  HTC Corp.’s (2489)  Velocity LTE smartphone,
plans to add 10 euros ($13) and extra data volume to its top two
tariffs. German customers’ response will have a “signal effect
to the entire group,” said Rene Schuster, who heads rival
Telefonica’s German operations.  The Spanish company and operator of the O2 wireless brand
in Europe today reported a 2.2 percent increase in German mobile
service revenue for the fourth quarter, while profit margins in
the country increased 2.5 percentage points to 26.1 percent.  When European operators, including  Deutsche Telekom (DTE)  and
Vodafone, spent about 50 billion euros on licenses in 2000 for
LTE predecessor UMTS, profits were years away as the networks
weren’t opened to the public until 2004 and high-bandwidth
applications weren’t widely consumed. This time, phone companies
are hoping to recoup their investments much sooner.  Network Congestion  “In my experience, customers are prepared to pay an
appropriate price for really high-class service,” said Vodafone
 Germany  CEO Friedrich Joussen, whose unit is spending about 1
billion euros annually on its network and aims to finish rollout
by 2015. “It will show that the strategy to drive innovation is
worthwhile.”  Unlike U.S. carriers, European operators are free to choose
whether to quickly boost their user base or aim for higher
prices because they don’t face the same urgency of network
congestion, said Mathieu Robilliard, a Paris-based analyst at
Exane BNP Paribas.  Operators “have to drive a skimming-off strategy and set a
higher price from the get-go to see how people accept it,” said
Torsten Gerpott, a professor at the  Mercator School of
Management at Duisburg-Essen University . “For the mass market
they can then still decide to lower the prices. But they mustn’t
set the price too low initially because they won’t ever be able
to bring it up again.”  Fastest Possible  New networks offer download speeds exceeding 100 megabits
per second. In everyday use with multiple users sharing a cell,
much lower speeds are expected and the main advantage may be
latency reduction, meaning websites and photos start loading
about three times faster.  “It would be extremely important to get the Internet
speeds that I have at home on the go,” said Andreu Vidal, a 20-
year old engineering trainee at Samson AG in Frankfurt. “When
you pay something like 70 euros, you pretty much expect to get
the fastest connections possible.”  LTE offers the possibility to differentiate offerings and
improve customer loyalty, said Ben Verwaayen, CEO of  Alcatel-
Lucent (ALU) , which competes with Huawei Technologies Co. and  Ericsson (ERICB) 
AB to provide infrastructure and components to phone companies.  “Next generation technology will give operators an
opportunity to make a choice on whether to be a commodity-
provider or not,” he said in an interview. “If you have a me-
too attitude and a me-too product, then you will get a me-too
price.”  ‘Hunger for Speed’  Germany will carry its lead in LTE among major European
markets through 2016, when more than 20 percent of mobile-phone
users will have switched,  Informa Plc (INF)  estimates. Meanwhile,
carriers need to justify the investment. Germany’s monthly
average revenue per user, at 15.62 euros in the final quarter of
2011, was one of Europe’s lowest, just ahead of  Greece  and
little more than half that of  France , Informa data shows. The
figure has fallen 61 percent from 40 euros at the start of the
last decade, according to the researcher.  2012 will be “the year of LTE” as “the hunger for speed
grows week by week,” said Bruno Jacobfeuerborn, chief
technology officer for Deutsche Telekom’s German home market.
The former phone monopoly will start offering LTE tariffs for
phones “in coming months” as it deploys networks in more than
100 German cities, he said, declining to comment on pricing.  Tariff Expectations  German operators, including  Royal KPN NV’s (KPN)  E-Plus division,
poured almost 4.4 billion euros into mobile-phone frequencies in
2010, with some spectrum converted from analogue television use.
So far, Vodafone, Telefonica and Deutsche Telekom have offered
LTE as a means to connect to the Internet from home, as an
alternative to cable and DSL.  “We’re watching very closely,” said Rafal Markiewicz,
chief technology officer of E-Plus, the one operator that won’t
offer LTE this year. “It will be quite interesting to see how
much customers will be willing to spend and what a price point
you choose at the outset, because that will set tariff
expectations for years to come.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in  Frankfurt  at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  