-- Volcker Rule May Impact Banks in Germany, U.K., France, EU Says
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2012-02-24T16:03:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/volcker-rule-may-impact-banks-in-germany-u-k-france-eu-says.html
Michel Barnier , the European Union’s
financial services chief, said a proposed U.S. ban on
proprietary trading may cause problems for banks in some of the
largest economies in  Europe .  The so-called Volcker rule, named for former Federal
Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , was included in the U.S. Dodd-
Frank Act to restrict risky trading at banks that operate with
federal guarantees.  “There are consequences of course and we are concerned
about certain countries such as the U.K. or Germany or  France 
who have banks, sometimes large banks, transnational banks, that
could cause a systemic risk and who work in the U.S., who are
actually useful for the  U.S. economy ,” Barnier said in an
interview with Bloomberg News yesterday.  Barnier, on a two-day visit to the U.S. to meet with top
regulatory officials, said Canadian and Japanese authorities
also have concerns about the rule. Central bankers and
regulators globally have voiced concern that the rule, which
would apply to the U.S. operations of foreign banks, may also
extend to firms’ operations outside of the country.  “The U.S. should be aware that there is a problem among
the different partners,” Barnier said.  In comment letters filed Feb. 13, the world’s largest banks
demanded changes to the proposed ban on proprietary trading.
They said the Volcker rule, which is scheduled to take effect in
July, would increase risk, raise investor costs, hurt U.S.
competitiveness and be vulnerable to court review. Group of 20
leaders haven’t endorsed the rule, which exempts  U.S. government
debt  but not non-U.S.  government bonds .  “The rule entails exceptions for instance concerning the
U.S. sovereign debt which means that the banks that would deal
with that would not be able to deal with the sovereign debt of
other countries and this has consequences on European banks,
Barnier said. “We do not understand why there should be an
exception only for the U.S. sovereign debt, but we will talk
about it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  