-- Weinstein’s ‘Artist’ Set as Oscar-Odds Favorite
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-02-24T05:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/weinstein-s-artist-set-to-pull-in-fans-as-oscar-odds-favorite.html
U.K. betting  websites  have already
crowned “The Artist” as the favorite to win this year’s
Academy Award for best picture, offering as little as $1 in
return for a $20 bet. Moviegoers are still casting their votes.  The question is how much more money “The Artist” will
make if a best-picture Oscar is added to its accolades when the
84th Academy Awards are handed out Feb. 26 in Hollywood. The
film has taken in $73 million worldwide on a $15 million
production budget, according to researcher  Box Office Mojo .  Weinstein Co.’s silent, black-and-white film about an aging
actor and an up-and-coming ingenue fits the profile of recent
small-budget winners. The movie by director  Michel Hazanavicius 
is ahead of “The Hurt Locker” from two years ago and far
behind exceptional performers like “The King’s Speech” and
“Slumdog Millionaire.” All were made for about $15 million,
according to Box Office Mojo.  “This year, there is just not a blockbuster in the
group,” said  Paul Dergarabedian , president of the box-office
division of Hollywood.com, a movie research website. “There’s
always a disconnect, and that’s the way it should be. It’s the
best picture, not the best box office.”  “The Artist,” about a silent-era film star unable to make
the transition to “talkies,” is among several movies that have
led to a critical and commercial revival for the studio, which
struggled after founders Harvey and  Bob Weinstein  left  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS) ’s Miramax to create the company in 2005.  Weinstein Comeback  The comeback began in 2009, when the Weinsteins garnered
six nominations and one win for “The Reader,” according to the
Academy database.  In 2010, they captured 13 nominations for films including
“Inglourious Basterds.” Last year, the New York-based studio
collected 13 nominations, and won awards for “The King’s
Speech” and its male lead  Colin Firth . The period drama took in
$414 million worldwide, according to Box Office Mojo.  This year they have a total of 16 nominations, including
ones for “The  Iron Lady ” and “My Weekend With Marilyn.”
Weinstein has U.S. distribution rights to “The Artist.”  “We’ve had a tremendous track record with ‘The Artist’ and
should we garner awards, it could have a positive effect on the
box office,” said Erik Lomis, Weinstein Co.’s president of
theatrical distribution and home entertainment.  The studio increased the number of theaters where the film
plays this weekend to 966 from 808, Lomis said in an interview.  Critical success has coincided with improving finances for
the studio. In 2010, Weinstein eliminated debt by transferring
ownership of some 250 movies to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Assured Guaranty Ltd., a person with knowledge of the situation
said at the time.  Now the company is seeking a loan of about $150 million to
further support its filmmaking, people with knowledge of the
situation said last week.  U.K. Betting Odds  EasyOdds.com , a site that aggregates betting lines, lists
“The Artist” as the favorite among 18 oddsmakers to win best
picture. Ladbrokes Plc offers the shortest odds at 1/20, meaning
gamblers have to risk $20 to win $1. AllYouBet offers a $1
return for $8 wagered. “The Descendants,” the family drama
featuring  George Clooney , is the second favorite at a distant
5.1 to 1 at AllYouBet and longer odds elsewhere.  If “The Artist” wins, it will be the second silent film
to win best picture. “Wings” was crowned outstanding picture
at the first Academy Awards on May 16, 1929, at the Hollywood
Roosevelt Hotel, walking distance from this year’s ceremony.  Golden Globes  “The Artist” already won the Golden Globe award for best
musical or comedy and was named best film by the New York Film
Critics Circle, the Producers Guild of America, and the Toronto
Film Critics Association. Its 10 Oscar nominations include best
actor for star  Jean Dujardin  and best director for Hazanavicius.  This year, the academy chose nine best-picture nominees,
the third year since the number was increased from five.  Others are  Martin Scorsese ’s 3-D fantasy “Hugo;” “The
Help,” from Disney and DreamWorks Studios;  Warner Bros .’
“Extremely Loud & Incredibly Close;” Woody Allen’s romantic
comedy “Midnight in Paris;”  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s “Moneyball;”
director Terrence Malick’s “The Tree of Life;” and  Steven Spielberg ’s “War Horse.”  Since the nominations on Jan. 24, tickets sales for “The
Artist” have more than doubled in the U.S. and Canada to $28.1
million through Feb. 20, according to Hollywood.com.  The biggest beneficiary of a nomination, on a percentage
basis, was “Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close.” The film had
taken in $10.7 million before the nominations and sales almost
tripled to $30.8 million, according to Hollywood.com.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  