-- Wells Fargo Seeks to End Mortgage-Repurchase Duties as Trustee
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-02-24T19:45:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/wells-fargo-seeks-to-hand-off-its-mortgage-repurchase-duties-as-trustee.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ’s mortgage-bond
trustee division is planning to hand its duties to investigate
 soured home loans  and pursue lender repurchases to other
companies, in a move meant to address the appearance of
conflicts of interests, an executive said.  The country’s largest home lender, which serves as trustee
on about 700 mortgage-bond transactions, expects to take the
step for at least 20 in the next few months, said Brian Bartlett, head of corporate trust services at the San Francisco-
based bank. It asked a Minnesota court on Feb. 10 to validate
the move for a securitization involved in separate litigation
against  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Wells Fargo is seeking to avoid suggestions its trustee
work can be influenced by unrelated repurchase demands against
its own  home-lending  unit, as investors seek compensation for
debt that never matched its promised quality, Bartlett said. The
bank will probably use the approach, which wasn’t requested by
bondholders, on other transactions, he said.  “We’re exercising an abundance of caution,” Bartlett said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “We want to make sure,
especially in this environment, we avoid even the appearance of
any potential conflicts.”  The strategy probably hasn’t been used in the industry
before, he said. Some bondholders have contacted Wells Fargo to
say they liked the idea, Bartlett said.  Conflicts of Interest  Under mortgage-bond contracts, investors typically can’t
pursue loan repurchases without action by trustees. Bondholder
advocates say those companies have often failed to do enough to
facilitate buybacks after record  homeowner defaults . Trustees’
conflicts of interest can also include their reliance on banks
for new business, said Isaac Gradman, an attorney and managing
member of IMG Enterprises LLC.  “They want to serve their masters, but they also have a
duty to investors,” said Gradman, whose  consulting firm  in
Petaluma,  California  advises on legal and contractual matters.  Bank of  New York  Mellon Corp., another trustee, resisted an
investor group’s push in 2010 to get Bank of America Corp. to
repurchase mortgages in securities created by the lender’s
Countrywide Financial Corp., before joining in talks that
created a proposed $8.5 billion  settlement . Bank of New York has
said it acts as required by bond contracts.  Representing Bondholders  Gibbs & Bruns LLP, the  law firm  representing bondholders
who negotiated the Countrywide agreement, said in a statement
last month they are now seeking information on $19 billion of
mortgage bonds issued by affiliates of Wells Fargo, adding to
efforts involving home-loan securities issued by JPMorgan and
Morgan Stanley.  In September, Wells Fargo, acting as trustee on behalf of
mortgage-bond holders, filed suit in Delaware against JPMorgan’s
EMC Mortgage unit seeking loan repurchases. In January 2011,
Wells Fargo had sued seeking files to pursue an investigation
after JPMorgan resisted a request, a case that was later
settled.  In its petition in  Minnesota , Wells Fargo said it wants to
hire Law Debenture Trust Co. of New York to handle issues
related to the so-called representations and warranties on loan
quality in the deal involved in the suit, Bear Stearns Mortgage
Trust Fund 2007-AR2.  “When we get to a point where investors are asking for
files to be reviewed by a third-party expert or investors
request a repurchase, we’re going to let someone else handle it
going forward,” Bartlett said.  Market Practices  Wells Fargo was hired as trustee on the fifth-most U.S.
asset- and mortgage-backed bond deals in 2006 as markets boomed,
trailing U.S. Bancorp, Deutsche Bank AG, Bank of New York, and
HSBC Holdings Plc, according to newsletter  Asset-Backed Alert .
It would be “extremely rare” for the bank to be trustee for
debt in which it was the lender because of market practices and
legal requirements for new transactions, Bartlett said.  Still, without splitting off the repurchase duties, the
bank could find itself in court setting legal precedents that
could be disadvantageous to it, according to Gradman, the
consultant. For example, there is debate about whether
misstatements about mortgages need to be responsible for 
defaults, to trigger the right to force buybacks, he said.  “At the same time when they’re defending against that kind
of thing” as a lender, “they’re going to be arguing the other
side” as a trustee, Gradman said in a telephone interview.
“I’d imagine that’s part of why they would have done this.”  The  Delaware  case is Bear Stearns Mortgage Funding Trust
2007-AR2 by Wells Fargo Bank NA as Trustee v. EMC Mortgage LLC,
CA6861, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  