-- Whitney Bank Will Pay $6.8 Million to End Case on Overdraft Checking Fees
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-02-24T00:28:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/whitney-bank-will-pay-6-8-million-to-end-case-on-overdraft-checking-fees.html
Hancock Holding Co. (HBHC) ’s Whitney Bank
reached a preliminary agreement to pay $6.8 million to settle
litigation claiming that it gouged customers on overdraft fees
for checking accounts, court records show.  The settlement would resolve claims by customers including
Angelique LaCour of  California , who sued the New Orleans-based
bank over fees charged to debit cards attached to her checking
account. The proposed settlement will be filed with the federal
court in Tampa,  Florida , within 45 days, records show.  “The recovery is excellent for customers, and it offers
them the easiest process to get paid,” Jeffrey Ostrow, LaCour’s
attorney, said in a telephone interview. LaCour’s complaint
sought group, or class-action, status.  “While the company admits no wrongdoing, in order to fully
and finally resolve the litigation and avoid significant costs
and expenses that would be involved in defending the case as
well as the distraction caused by the litigation, Whitney Bank
has entered into an agreement in principle,” the bank said
today in a regulatory filing.  At least 30 banks have been sued over their overdraft-fee
policies. The customers say the banks reorder debit-card
transactions in their computers to maximize overdraft fees.  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC) , the second-biggest U.S. bank by assets, agreed
last year to pay $410 million without admitting liability to
settle an overdraft lawsuit brought by its customers.  The case is Angelique LaCour v. Whitney Bank, 11-cv-1896,
U.S. District Court, Middle District of Florida (Tampa).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 