-- Why U.S. Treasuries Won’t Always Be a Haven: David and Veronesi
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   D a v i d   a n d   P i e t r o   V e r o n e s i
-- 2012-02-24T00:01:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/why-u-s-treasuries-won-t-always-be-a-haven-david-and-veronesi.html
At the onset of the financial crisis
in 2008, the volatility of stock returns increased dramatically
as the equity markets plunged. At the same time, U.S. Treasury
bond prices shot up. The correlation of bonds and stock prices
has been mainly negative ever since.  This makes sense: In times of trouble, we dump stocks and
buy safe Treasury bonds, and their prices should move inversely.
This also would mean that in better times, we buy stocks and
sell bonds, implying that the correlation between Treasuries and
stocks should always be negative.  It isn’t. The correlation between the aggregate stock
market and long-term Treasury bonds has been mainly positive and
rising from the 1960s to the end of last millennium. With the
new millennium, the correlation between stocks and Treasuries
turned negative, and strongly so, especially around the last two
recessions.  What happened? Why did the behavior of  stocks  and bonds
change so much in the last decade? More important, what does
this tell us about economic fundamentals and investors’
behavior? In a  recent article , we argued that investors’
uncertainty about economic growth and inflation regimes is at
the root of the puzzling behavior of stock and Treasury prices.  We take into account that, at any point in time, investors
don’t know which economic-inflation regime they are operating
in, but they can use historical data and statistics to figure
out at least which one is the most likely, as any skilled
econometrician would.  Historical Data  Treating investors like econometricians who use historical
data to form beliefs about economic regimes is illuminating. It
follows from the laws of statistics that if investors are
uncertain about the current economic regime, any new data
observation leads to large revisions in expectations about long-
term prospects.  Stock and long-term bond prices depend on these
expectations, and thus large revisions imply large price
movements. The constant flow of news into the market generates
 volatility  and price co-movement (positive or negative) as
investors’ uncertainty changes over time. Uncertainty decreases
as investors observe more data, but it may also increase as the
observation of outliers signals changes in economic regimes. We
exploit this insight and use stock and bond data to learn about
investors’ beliefs and especially their uncertainty about future
economic growth and inflation.  Before describing the implications of our model for the
last decade, we should look at the late 1970s. Our estimates
suggest that at that time investors faced large uncertainty
about whether the U.S. would enter a persistent stagflation
regime. Any consumer-price data that were above expectations
were taken as an indication that the U.S. was transiting into
such a regime, which brings about low growth and high inflation.
The former makes stock prices decline, the latter makes long-
term yields increase. Thus, data-driven fluctuations in
investors’ beliefs about a stagflation regime pushed the prices
of stocks and Treasuries to move together, and increased
 volatility  for both.  In the recent Great Recession, the opposite occurred. The
market now fears deflation, which is accompanied by low growth,
as we know from the Great Depression. In this case, CPI data
above expectations are great news for the economy, as investors
interpret them as a signal that the bad deflation regime could
be averted.  Deflationary Regime  Stock markets cheer higher-than-expected CPI, and Treasury
 yields  increase in expectation of accelerating inflation. Thus,
data-driven beliefs about entering a deflationary state push the
prices of stocks and Treasuries in opposite directions. Large
uncertainty about deflation also increases the  volatility  of
stocks and bonds, as we observed in the data. In other words,
the signaling role of inflation dramatically alters the joint
behavior of stocks and bonds, with important implications for
risk and returns of stock and Treasury investments.  Our model’s estimates also suggest that investors may have
had a relatively strong belief that the economy may enter into a
deflationary regime in 2001. Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan  expressed such concerns then as part of the central
bank’s decision to cut  interest rates  to then-historic lows,
which some commentators have designated as one of the causes of
the housing bubble in the subsequent five years.  Our model has numerous implications for the behavior of
stocks and bonds. For instance, researchers have been puzzling
over why the new millennium brought the breakdown of the “ Fed
model (.RISKPRE) ” -- the positive relationship between stock earnings
yields and Treasury yields. Our model shows that the signaling
role of inflation would predict just that: An increase in the
probability of entering a deflationary regime will lower
Treasury yields (because expected inflation is lower) but
increase stocks’ yields (because the expected economic growth is
slower).  Similarly, the change in correlation between stocks and
long-term Treasuries returns from positive to negative also
implies that U.S. bonds moved from being a risky investment --
requiring a  risk premium  -- to a hedge, requiring a discount.  That is, investors purchasing long-term Treasuries in
recent times would tend to receive a low average return on their
investment, because bond prices have been bid up for their
hedging properties. Treasuries are now considered a haven.
However, this will only be true until the return of an
inflationary regime. Caveat emptor.  (Alexander David is professor of finance at Haskayne School
of Business at the University of Calgary. Pietro Veronesi is
professor of finance at the University of Chicago Booth School
of Business, and a contributor to  Business Class . The opinions
expressed are their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writers of this article:
Alexander David at  adavid@ucalgary.ca ;
Pietro Veronesi at  Pietro.Veronesi@chicagobooth.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 