-- Why Renters Rule U.S. Housing Market (Part 3): A. Gary Shilling
-- B y   A .   G a r y   S h i l l i n g
-- 2012-02-24T00:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/why-renters-rule-housing-market-part-3-commentary-by-a-gary-shilling.html
Think of all the recent federal
programs to keep people who can’t afford them in their four-
bedroom houses.  There are the  Home Affordable Modification Program , the
 Home Affordable Refinancing Program  and the Emergency
Homeowners’ Loan Program. In addition, there are Hope Now, Hope
for Homeowners, the Hardest Hit Funds and, most recently, the
proposal to expand HARP to distressed mortgages not covered by
Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac .  -- Hopeless HAMP: The administration initially said this
program would relieve 3 million to 4 million distressed
homeowners, but it’s been a miserable failure. That was to be
expected because  loose-lending practices  put many people in
houses so unaffordable that, short of canceling their monthly
mortgage payments completely, no modification would return them
to financial health. About the only thing HAMP has done is delay
 foreclosures  while lenders, under federal government edict,
attempt to modify home loans to reduce total monthly payments on
mortgage, credit-card and other debt to 31 percent of income.  Through December 2011, 1.8 million HAMP trial modifications
had been initiated, but the monthly pace of new modifications
continues to drop. Only 43 percent of the HAMP trials -- 762,839
-- made it to permanent status. Nevertheless, the administration
still has hope for the program and has extended it through
December 2012.  -- HARP and EHLP: HARP was initiated in June 2009 by the
White House to aid 4 million to 5 million homeowners by allowing
those with mortgages guaranteed by  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac (NMCMFUS)  --
which back almost half the $10.4 trillion of outstanding home
loans and 87 percent of recent originations -- to  refinance 
their loans even if they exceed the property’s value by 25
percent. Yet only 894,000 mortgages were subsequently
refinanced. And even though Fannie and  Freddie (FRE)  guarantee about 5
million underwater mortgages, just 70,000 of those refinancings
were loans that significantly exceeded the value of the home.
Undaunted, the administration liberalized HARP in November and
extended it through 2013.  EHLP was set up by the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial reform law
to help 30,000 homeowners by providing zero-interest loans of as
much as $50,000, which could be forgiven after five years if
borrowers stayed current on their mortgage payments. Despite the
attractiveness of this offer, of the 100,000 troubled homeowners
who applied for EHLP by the Sept. 30, 2011 deadline, only 10,000
to 15,000 are expected to qualify, meaning the program will
dispense $330 million to $500 million of the $1 billion it was
allocated.  Most recently, the  Federal Housing Finance Agency  extended
HARP to the one-third of all mortgages not covered by Fannie and
Freddie and that are instead owned by banks or grouped in
mortgage-backed securities sold to investors. The new loans,
refinanced at lower  interest rates , would be guaranteed by the
 Federal Housing Administration .  The administration says the program could benefit 3.5
million homeowners in addition to the 11 million who could be
helped by programs for borrowers with loans backed by Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac. But as with those efforts, this measure
transfers money from mortgage holders to homeowners. The new
program will cost $5 billion to $10 billion, which the
administration wants to pay for by taxing large banks. Because
this would require congressional approval, Republican opposition
makes enactment highly unlikely.  -- Try, Try Again: And don’t forget the tax credit for new
homeowners that was in effect from 2009 to April 2010, and
resulted in a temporary increase in  house prices . Many
speculators were encouraged to conclude that the price collapse
was over and bought foreclosed houses for a quick flip and lots
of profit. But as prices fell again and turned expected gains
into losses, those investors became landlords and rented their
properties hoping that rents and appreciation would bail them
out at some point.  Also recall the Fed’s attempts to aid housing by pushing
down interest rates. When it cut short-term interest rates to 0
percent, not much happened: Banks were too scared and too
restricted to lend, and creditworthy borrowers had plenty of
cash and little interest in spending and investing in a very
uncertain economic climate.  So the Fed moved to quantitative easing, buying huge
quantities of securities. Those purchases provided money to
investors in stocks and commodities in late 2010 and early 2011,
but there was no multiplier effect. Banks didn’t want to lend
the $1.5 trillion in excess reserves created in the process to
any but the most reliable creditworthy borrowers, who didn’t
want or need to borrow.  With the second round of quantitative easing, initiated in
November 2010, the Fed also hoped to push down  10-year Treasury
note yields , which would then push lower 30-year fixed-rate
 mortgage rates , to the benefit of  homeowners . This moved the Fed
beyond monetary policy and into the realm of fiscal policy, but
maybe dire circumstances justified the resulting potential loss
of the central bank’s independence.  Nevertheless, the Fed’s second round of purchases didn’t do
much to revive house sales or prices.  Mortgage rates  are only
one factor influencing housing activity, and their decline
continues to be offset by fear of further drops in prices, high
unemployment, strict lending standards, higher loan fees and
underwater mortgages.  Yet just as the administration hasn’t given up on its
failed attempts to aid housing, lack of success hasn’t deterred
the Fed. It subsequently embarked on Operation Twist, selling
short-term Treasuries and buying longer issues to push long
rates lower without further bloating its balance sheet. And the
Fed has hinted at further action if the economy falters this
year, as I’m forecasting, perhaps by buying more mortgage-
related securities.  -- The Courts: The third branch of government is also
trying to keep homeowners in their abodes, especially those who
can’t afford them. The Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court
recently voided foreclosure sales on two houses because owners
of the loans couldn’t prove that the mortgages had been assigned
to them before they were securitized. The frequent change of
ownership in the  securitization process  led to sloppy paperwork
with the names of the owners left blank.  In some so-called judicial states, such as  Florida ,  New
York  and  New Jersey , lenders have to go to court to be able to
 foreclose . This greatly increases the foreclosure time, to 986
days in New York as of the third quarter of 2011 and 749 days in
Florida.  Washington ’s efforts to reverse the trend away from
homeownership and toward rentals will probably continue to be
futile, even though the National Association of Realtors
reported this week that sales of  existing homes  increased
4.3 percent in January, to a 4.57 million annual rate, the
highest level since May 2010.  Rental apartments should continue to be an interesting
investment area for years, as rising rents provide attractive
returns. Single-family rentals may also be fruitful if the
problems related to large-scale management of houses can be
resolved.  (A. Gary Shilling is president of A. Gary Shilling & Co.
and author of “The Age of Deleveraging: Investment Strategies
for a Decade of Slow Growth and Deflation.” The opinions
expressed are his own.  Read Part 1  and  Part 2  of the series.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
A. Gary Shilling at  insight@agaryshilling.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 