-- William Hill Full-Year Profit Falls 11%, Seeks Online Expansion
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2012-02-24T10:24:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/william-hill-full-year-profit-falls-11-seeks-online-expansion.html
William Hill Plc (WMH) , a U.K. bookmaker
with about 2,350 outlets, said full-year profit fell 11 percent
after a writedown on its loss-making telephone betting business
which saw a decline in amounts wagered and win margins.  Net profit for the year ended Dec. 27 declined to 115
million pounds ($182 million) from 130 million pounds a year
earlier, the company said today in a statement. Sales rose 6
percent to 1.14 billion pounds. Operating expenses increased to
758 million pounds from 659 million pounds a year ago. Net
revenue in the seven weeks to Feb. 14 rose 13 percent.  The company is “convinced we should be expanding” outside
the U.K., Chief Executive Officer Ralph Topping said today on a
conference call. “You’ve got to look at regulated
territories,” he said, adding that the company is continuing to
expand its online and mobile phone offerings and that overseas
expansion would “ideally” be multi-channel.  William Hill and rivals such as  Ladbrokes Plc (LAD)  are focusing
on growing their online business, which is more profitable than
town-center shops. Online net revenue grew 28 percent to 321
million pounds, William Hill said today, while online operating
profit jumped 17 percent to 107 million pounds. Operating profit
from retail fell 4 percent to 197 million pounds.  Overseas Expansion  “With many governments either introducing or liberalising
gambling regulations, opportunities are opening up for William
Hill to take its expertise into new territories,” the company
said in the statement. Expansion may be through increased brand
marketing, acquisitions or partnerships, the company said.  William Hill, which last year announced plans to acquire
three land-based sports betting businesses in the U.S., is
awaiting license approval from authorities in  Nevada . The
company launched a website in  Italy  in the last quarter.  “It’s all broadly in line with expectations, current
trading looks very strong,”  Simon Davies , an analyst with
 Collins Stewart  who has a ‘buy’ rating on the stock, said in a
phone interview. “Online is the sensible route to expand
internationally because the costs are limited. It’s been a
resilient year for the business.”  One of the “key risks” for 2012 is the impact of U.K. and
overseas taxation, the company said today. The U.K. government
may increase gaming machine tax in the March budget. Topping
said he has “no way of knowing,” what U.K. Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  will decide.  William Hill shares fell as much as 2.2 pence, or 0.9
percent, to 231.3 pence and were at 232.1 pence in London at
9:44 a.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  