-- Williams Says Fed’s Monetary Policy Must Address Shortfall in Demand
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-02-24T15:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/williams-says-monetary-policy-must-address-demand-shortfall-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of San
Francisco President John C. Williams said the housing “bust”
is weighing on the U.S. economy and that monetary stimulus is
warranted to boost growth.  “Housing is a major factor in the deep downturn and
sluggish recovery we’ve experienced in recent years,” Williams
said in the text of remarks given at the University of Chicago
Booth School of Business’s U.S.  Monetary Policy  Forum in  New
York . “It’s one of several factors weighing on aggregate
spending by consumers, businesses, and government.  An
aggregate-demand shortfall is something monetary policy can be,
should be, and is addressing.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  last month said its key
interest rate is likely to stay “exceptionally low” through at
least late 2014 to help the recovery gain traction, extending an
earlier date of mid-2013. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on
Jan. 25 that weakness in the housing market was slowing the
economic recovery.  Williams, a voting member on the policy-setting FOMC this
year, said one challenge for central bankers is that “the
monetary transmission mechanism is partially clogged,” making
“refinancing and other housing activity less responsive to
changes in  interest rates .”  If monetary policy is “less powerful than usual,” that
“suggests we need to move our monetary instruments even more
than usual to achieve our employment and price-stability
objectives,” Williams said.  Bond Purchases  Fed officials are keeping open the option of a third round
of bond purchases in case the economy weakens or inflation stays
low. “A few” members of the FOMC said economic conditions
could warrant buying assets “before long,” and others
indicated that action would become necessary if the “economy
lost momentum” or price gains seemed likely to remain lower
than the Fed’s 2 percent goal, according to minutes of their
Jan. 24-25 meeting released Feb. 15.  The personal consumption expenditures price index rose 2.4
percent for the 12 months ending in December. The Fed last month
set a long-term goal of 2 percent inflation and forecast that
price increases will fall short of that target this year and
next.  Joblessness declined to 8.3 percent in January, the lowest
since February 2009, Labor Department data showed on Feb. 3.
Payrolls climbed by 243,000, the most in nine months and more
than the most optimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News Survey.  Clogged Mechanism  “The partially clogged transmission mechanism could
suggest that you don’t do more of everything across the board,
but concentrate on policies that affect particular problem
areas,” Williams said. “For example, purchases of mortgage-
related securities appear to have reduced mortgage rates
significantly, making them particularly useful given the
weakness in the housing sector.”  Fiscal policies addressing “housing-related headwinds”
may also be helpful in boosting the recovery and making
“existing monetary stimulus” more “powerful,” Williams said.  Williams forecast on Feb. 8 that the  U.S. economy  would
grow by 2.25 percent this year, slower than the 2.8 percent
annual pace in the fourth quarter. He became the San Francisco Fed’s president in March 2011 after two years as the regional
bank’s director of research.  Weakness in the housing market “has not been the only
factor weighing on aggregate demand” as “fallout from the
broader financial crisis” has also damped growth, Williams
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  