-- Yakuza Godfather Targeted in Obama Crackdown on Japanese Organized Crime
-- B y   T e r j e   L a n g e l a n d
-- 2012-02-24T20:04:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/yakuza-godfather-targeted-in-obama-crackdown-on-organized-crime.html
Japan ’s yakuza organized-crime
groups, having operated openly in their home country for more
than a century, are facing tougher treatment by an overseas foe:
the U.S. Obama administration.  The largest of Japan’s yakuza organizations, the Yamaguchi-
gumi, and two of its leaders will have their U.S. assets frozen
and transactions barred under sanctions announced yesterday by
the Treasury Department. The group earns “billions of dollars”
a year from crimes in Japan and abroad, including drug and human
trafficking, prostitution, money laundering and fraud, the
department said in a statement.  The U.S. move represents “a slap in the face of the
Japanese government” for failing to rein in organized crime,
said Jake Adelstein, a Tokyo-based writer who covers the yakuza.  “The U.S. government feels that the Japanese government is
very tolerant toward organized crime,” Adelstein said today by
telephone. It’s telling Japanese authorities, “Start doing
something about your problem,” he said.  The Yamaguchi-gumi’s leaders targeted by the sanctions are
its “godfather,” Kenichi Shinoda, 70, and his deputy Kiyoshi
Takayama, 64, the Treasury Department said in its statement. The
U.S. also imposed sanctions against seven “key members and
associates” of a syndicate called the Brothers’ Circle, based
in Central Asia,  Russia  and the  Middle East .  Obama Order  They are the first targets under an  executive order  issued
by Obama last year “to target transnational criminal
organizations and isolate them from the global financial
system,” David S. Cohen, U.S. undersecretary for terrorism and
financial intelligence, said in the statement.  John Sullivan , a Treasury Department spokesman, said Japan
is making efforts to fight criminal organizations.  “Undersecretary Cohen noted that we are coordinating with
the Japanese government when it comes to combating transnational
criminal groups, and recognized the significant steps that the
Japanese have taken, especially recently, to target the
Yakuza,” Sullivan said in an e-mail.  A man who answered a phone call today from Bloomberg News
to the Yamaguchi-gumi’s headquarters in the western city of Kobe
hung up when asked to make a spokesperson available.  “The Japanese government has been watching the situation
closely with interest and has been exchanging information with
the U.S.,” Japanese Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura told
reporters today. “We should promote stronger measures against
organized crime gangs.”  Overseas Assets  The Yamaguchi-gumi, which operates out of a two-building
complex in a residential neighborhood, was estimated to
represent 44 percent of Japan’s yakuza with 34,900 members as of
December 2010, according to the National Police Agency.  The group has “significant” overseas assets, Adelstein
said. In 2005, U.S. Immigrations and Customs Enforcement seized
almost $600,000 from accounts belonging to Susumu Kajiyama, a
yakuza member who was sentenced in Japan for loan-sharking, the
 Associated Press  reported in 2009. In 2003, Swiss authorities
said they seized 61 million Swiss francs ($68 million) from
accounts in Kajiyama’s name.  “While this is more of a sting than a blow, it certainly
won’t make them happy,” Adelstein said of the U.S. action.  Shinoda was released in April from a Japanese prison, where
he had served a six-year term related to firearms possession,
according to the National Police Agency.  Shinoda and Takayama are “the top two representatives of
the Yamaguchi-gumi,” Adelstein said. “Everyone knows who they
are.”  Police ‘Doubling’ Efforts  The yakuza have been a force in Japanese society since at
least the pre-1868 Edo period. While the group is linked to
criminal activities including gambling and prostitution, yakuza
also have been hailed for community service. In 1995, its
members aided earthquake-hit neighborhoods of Kobe.  Japanese police are “doubling” efforts to crack down on
the yakuza, the  National Police Agency  said in its  2010 White
Paper , published last July. In 2010, 68 top members of the
Yamaguchi-gumi and its affiliates, including Takayama, were
arrested, compared with 23 arrests a year earlier.  The yakuza is increasingly turning to businesses such as
construction, finance, waste disposal and securities markets to
supplement their more traditional income sources, the agency
said in the 2010 statement.  Olympus  Japanese officials investigated whether Olympus Corp.,
which admitted to a 13-year cover-up to conceal losses, worked
with organized-crime members, the New York Times reported in
November. The fraud has also been investigated by U.S. and U.K.
authorities. A panel of external examiners hired by Olympus to
investigate said it found no evidence that money was funneled to
criminal gangs.  “Today’s action casts a spotlight on key members of
criminal organizations that have engaged in a wide range of
serious crimes across the globe,” Cohen said in the Treasury
Department’s statement. “We will continue to work with our
international partners to target those who deal in violence,
narcotics,  money laundering , and the exploitation of women and
children.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terje Langeland in Tokyo at 
 tlangeland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brian Fowler at 
 bfowler4@bloomberg.net  