-- Yuan Forwards Snap Three-Week Loss on Global Growth Optimism
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-02-24T09:29:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-24/yuan-forwards-snap-three-week-loss-on-global-growth-optimism.html
Yuan non-deliverable forwards
snapped a three-week losing streak as data in the U.S. and
 Europe  bolstered the outlook for a global recovery and  China 
sought to prop up growth by adding funds to the banking system.  Asian currencies gained today after reports yesterday
showed better-than-estimated jobs and housing numbers in the U.S.
and German business confidence rose to the highest level in
seven months. The People’s Bank of China lowered the amount of
cash lenders must set aside as  reserves  by half a percentage
point to 20.5 percent, effective today.  “Data from the U.S. and Europe are encouraging for China’s
exports,” said Kenix Lai, a currency analyst at Bank of East
Asia Ltd. in Hong Kong. “The reserve-ratio cut also eases
concern over a hard-landing in China as we see capital inflows
into Asia resume.”  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards climbed 0.07 percent
this week to 6.2800 per dollar as of 5:15 p.m. in  Hong Kong , a
0.3 percent premium to the onshore spot rate, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The contracts were little changed today.  The yuan gained 0.02 percent this week to close at 6.2978
in  Shanghai , according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade
System. The central bank raised its daily  reference rate  by 0.1
percent, the most in two weeks, to 6.2965. The currency is
allowed to trade 0.5 percent either side of the fixing. In Hong
Kong’s offshore market, the yuan was unchanged this week at
6.2970.  The yuan will likely trade around 6.3 to the dollar in the
“near term” as investors watch for more signals to confirm any
global recovery, Lai said.  China’s central bank bought more foreign exchange than it
sold for the first time in four months in January, according to
official data released this week. Yuan positions at financial
institutions increased to 25.5 trillion yuan ($4 trillion) as of
the end of January, up 141 billion yuan from the previous month, 
PBOC data  released on Feb. 20 showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  