-- Adcock Ingram Share Surge After Company Receives Offers
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2013-05-09T16:28:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/adcock-ingram-share-surge-after-company-receives-offers.html
Adcock Ingram Holdings Ltd. (AIP) ,  South
Africa ’s largest supplier of hospital products, said it received
offers to buy the company or a controlling stake, sending the
stock to its highest level since 2010.  The board “is in receipt of non-binding proposals” the
Johannesburg-based company said a statement today. The
announcement comes less than two months after Bidvest Group Ltd.
offered to buy 60 percent of the drugmaker for about 6.2 billion
rand ($691 million). Adcock said at the time it wouldn’t
recommend the offer from the South African conglomerate to
shareholders.  “There may be more than one buyer for Adcock,” Henre Herselman, a derivatives trader at Nedbank Private Wealth, said
by phone in Johannesburg. “The share is rising on speculation
of rival bidding.”  Adcock shares rose 8.9 percent to 67.50 rand by the close
in Johannesburg, the highest since November 2010.  Last month  Bidvest (BVT)  said it planned to put its proposal
directly to Adcock shareholders because a “large weight” of
them supported the proposal.  Adcock, which makes Panado painkillers and Corenza cold
medicine, said on April 4 that any new offer from Bidvest should
address legal deficiencies, the rights of minority shareholders
following a gain of control by Bidvest, and how the plan fits
into the drugmaker’s strategy to empower black investors.  Bidvest, a group with interests from car sales to coal
export terminals, had made half of its offer for Adcock in cash
at 65 rand a share, and half in stock at a ratio of one Bidvest
share for every four Adcock shares. Bidvest already held 2.54
percent of Adcock when it announced the proposal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  