-- AEG, Billionaire Batista to Manage Rio’s Maracana Stadium
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-05-10T15:18:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/aeg-batista-to-manage-rio-s-iconic-maracana-world-cup-stadium.html
Anschutz Entertainment Group Inc.,
the operator of the Staples Center in  Los Angeles  and London’s
O2 arena, teamed up with billionaire  Eike Batista  and Brazil’s
largest construction company to run Rio de Janeiro’s Maracana
stadium for 35 years.  The arena, which last month held its first test event after
being shuttered for a three-year, $500 million renovation, will
host next year’s soccer World Cup final and the opening and
closing ceremonies of the 2016  Summer Olympics .  The group, known as Consorcio Maracana SA, is led by
Odebrecht SA, Brazil’s biggest construction firm, and includes
Batista’s sports and entertainment vehicle IMX along with Los
Angeles-based AEG, whose holdings include  Major League Soccer ’s
Galaxy and the Staples Center, home of the  National Basketball
Association ’s Lakers.  “The consortium is committed to promoting an international
management and ensure the modernization of the complex to
consolidate it as the entertainment hub of Rio de Janeiro and
 Brazil ,” Consorcio Maracana said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement.  The agreement needs to be ratified by Rio’s state
government.  The group is paying 5.5 million reais ($2.7 million)
annually for the concession, or 192.5 million reais in total.
Odebrecht holds a 90 percent stake in the venture, with IMX and
AEG controlling 5 percent each. The group said it planned to
invest 594 million reais on the complex.  Privatization Protests  The Maracana’s reconstruction has been criticized for cost
overruns, delays and the Rio state government’s plans to put the
stadium in the hands of private operators.  Protestors criticized the privatization at the April 27 re-opening, at which a reduced capacity of around 30,000 invited
guests, including construction workers and Brazil’s president
Dilma Roussef, watched a soccer exhibition game.  The stadium, which now seats 78,000, was designed for the
1950  World Cup , the only occasion record five-time world
champion Brazil hosted the most-watched sports event.  The Maracana is part of the country’s sporting lore after
the host nation lost the World Cup final to Uruguay in front of
173,850 fans. The game, for which organizers had made winners’
medals for the Brazilian team in advance, is still described as
a national tragedy.  Because the re-opening was delayed by four months to
rebuild the roof, a June 2 exhibition game between Brazil and
 England  will be the only fixture with a capacity crowd played at
the Maracana before next month’s  Confederations Cup , a warm-up
event for the World Cup.  London Bid  AEG, whose owner Phil Anschutz stopped seeking a buyer for
the unit in March, last year failed in a bid with English
Premier League soccer team Tottenham to run  London ’s 2012
Olympic stadium.  AEG has contracts to manage three other venues in Brazil --
Arena da Baixada in Curitiba state; Sao Paulo’s Nova Arena,
which is scheduled to open in November; and the Arena Pernambuco
in Recife state.  Billionaire Batista in 2011 founded Rio-based  IMX , a joint
venture with IMG Worldwide Inc., to expand into sports and arena
management in Brazil. The company manages a portfolio that
includes the  Ultimate Fighting Championship  and sailing’s Volvo
Ocean Race. It also has ventures with Cirque du Soleil and Rock
World SA, which organizes the Rock in Rio music festivals.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  