-- After Vote, Pakistan’s Strongest Ally Should Be India
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-05-09T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/after-vote-pakistan-s-strongest-ally-should-be-india.html
As every leading candidate has
proudly noted, tomorrow’s parliamentary elections in  Pakistan 
will mark the first civilian transfer of power in that country’s
66-year history. To ensure it’s not the last, the winner should
turn to an unlikely ally: India.  Whichever party takes power in Islamabad will almost
certainly have to cobble together a coalition to rule. The new
government will inherit a looming  foreign-exchange crisis ,
hours-long blackouts that have provoked street riots, and
overlapping insurgencies and sectarian wars that have claimed
thousands of lives. Though army chief Ashfaq Parvez Kayani has
resisted the temptation to restore military rule, he will retire
soon. His successors may not be so restrained.  None of Pakistan’s ills has a quick fix. But one key
decision would immediately help jump-start the economy, lower
regional tensions and reduce the army’s influence in politics:
lifting long-standing barriers to trade with  India .  The benefits of a border more open to commerce are
indisputable. Trade between India and Pakistan -- currently less
than $3 billion annually -- may grow tenfold or more if existing
restrictions were to be lifted, according to an April  report 
produced by the Woodrow Wilson International Center for
Scholars. Millions in revenue are currently lost via smuggling
and informal trade. Some estimates put the potential for Indian
investment in Pakistan at $50 billion.  Fraught Border  Equally important, a more open border would be a less
fraught one. The army’s obsession with the “Indian threat”
drives Pakistan’s most dangerous policies. It fuels the world’s
fastest-growing  nuclear stockpile  and diverts the lion’s share
of the country’s limited resources to defense. It has led the
military to lend unofficial support to anti-India jihadist
groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba, which carried out the deadly
2008 terrorist attack in Mumbai. Pakistan has also backed
Taliban factions in  Afghanistan  as a means of countering Indian
influence there.  A remarkable consensus in favor of freer trade with
Pakistan’s archrival has now developed across the political
spectrum. In November 2011, the government pledged to grant its
larger neighbor “most-favored nation” status -- a decision that
could not have been made without the support of the military.
(India afforded Pakistan the same status in 1996.) All of
Pakistan’s mainstream parties have endorsed an economic
rapprochement. The front-runner -- Punjabi magnate and former
Prime Minister  Nawaz Sharif  -- has made increased trade and
economic progress central to his appeal to voters.  Informal Barriers  Pakistan has yet to follow through on its 2011 pledge. Now
is the time to do so. The next government should immediately
trim back the list of  1,200 Indian products  that still cannot be
imported. Some of these restrictions are meant to defend
Pakistani farmers, say, from cheaper Indian crops. But mostly
they protect well-connected lobbies: More than 500 of the banned
goods affect the automobile, iron and steel industries.  India needs to do what it can to help the next Pakistani
government. Though India’s list of banned imports is much
smaller, other informal barriers still impede Pakistani exports.
It takes six months for Pakistani companies to get approval to
ship cement to India, for instance. The government in  New Delhi 
should strive to eliminate such roadblocks and to improve
transport and logistics links across the border. Better trade
facilities alone could pump up Pakistan’s exports to India by
200 percent.  Both sides need to act quickly, before another terrorist
attack or domestic political controversy derails the current
momentum. India’s next government could well be led by the Hindu
nationalist  Bharatiya Janata Party , whose base remains deeply
skeptical of Pakistan’s trustworthiness. ( Elections  must be held
before the end of next May.) The impending U.S. pullout could
turn Afghanistan into another shadow battleground for the South
Asian rivals, much like the disputed territory of Kashmir.  Delay has allowed past opportunities for reconciliation to
slip away. Neither Pakistan nor India -- whose own economy is
slowing dramatically -- can afford to let this happen again.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  