-- Agrium Trails Estimates After Cold Weather Slows Planting
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-05-09T13:07:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/agrium-profit-trails-estimates-after-cold-weather-slows-planting.html
Agrium Inc. (AGU) , the largest U.S. farm-products retailer, reported first-quarter profit and sales that
trailed analysts’ estimates after cold weather slowed planting
by farmers.  Net income declined to $141 million, or 94 cents a share,
from $153 million, or 97 cents, a year earlier, Calgary-based
Agrium said today in a statement. Profit excluding share-based
payments was $1.03 a share, missing the $1.08 average of 24
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Sales dropped to $3.22 billion
from $3.57 billion, less than the $3.47 billion average of 19
estimates.  “With corn planting the slowest since 1984, prices are
under pressure as some farmers delay or defer purchases” of
fertilizer, Jason Miner, an analyst at Bloomberg Industries in
Princeton,  New Jersey , said in a telephone interview before
Agrium released its results.  Agrium’s sales from its retail network fell 13 percent to
$2.1 billion, “largely due to colder weather and a more typical
spring season compared to a historically early spring season in
the same last year,” the company said in the statement. The
spring planting season began about a month earlier than usual
last year.  Lower Prices  “The continuation of cold, wet weather in April is likely
to result in a somewhat compressed spring application season
this year,” according to the statement. “However, we still
expect excellent demand for crop inputs in the first half of
2013 given positive grower sentiment and the strength in the
agricultural fundamentals.”  Earnings in the first quarter were hurt by lower prices for
potassium and phosphorus crop nutrients. Agrium sold potash, a
form of potassium, on average for $404 a metric ton, down from
$497 a year earlier, according to the statement. The average
phosphate price fell 11 percent to $698 a ton from a year
earlier.  The company forecast second-quarter profit excluding
derivative gains or losses of $4.60 to $5.40 a share. That
compares with the $5.28 average of 21  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  The first-quarter results come a month after Agrium fended
off a challenge from dissident shareholder Jana Partners LLC, a
New York-based hedge fund. Agrium investors rejected five Jana-sponsored board nominees at the Canadian company’s annual
meeting in Calgary.  Agrium said its board authorized a buyback of as much as 5
percent of the company’s stock.  CF Industries Holdings Inc. (CF) , the largest U.S. maker of
nitrogen fertilizer, yesterday posted first-quarter profit that
beat analysts’ estimates as some nutrient prices rose amid
expectations for increased corn planting.  (Agrium scheduled a conference call to discuss the earnings
results for 11:30 a.m.  New York  time, accessible at
+1-877-407-8037.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  