-- Air Pollution Raises Risk of Diabetes Precursor in Kids
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-05-09T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/air-pollution-raises-risk-of-diabetes-precursor-in-kids.html
Exposure to air pollution raises the
risk of resistance to insulin, a typical warning sign of
diabetes, according to a study of almost 400 German children.  Insulin resistance climbed by 17 percent for every 10.6
micrograms per cubic meter increase in ambient nitrogen dioxide
and by 19 percent for every 6 micrograms per cubic meter
increase in particulate matter in the study of 10-year-olds. The
findings were published today in Diabetologia, the journal of
the  European Association for the Study of Diabetes .  The study adds to previous research that showed a link
between traffic-related air pollution and the development of
diabetes in  adults . Those studies have shown that exposure to
fine pollution particles that invade the breathing system and
get into the heart and blood vessels increases inflammation,
which may be linked to insulin resistance, said  Joachim Heinrich 
of the German Research Center for Environmental Health, one of
the study authors.  “Given the ubiquitous nature of air pollution and the high
incidence of insulin resistance in the general population, the
associations examined here may have potentially important public
health effects,” Heinrich said in the published paper.  Diabetes occurs when blood-sugar levels are too high. In
the Type 1 form of the disease, the body is unable to produce
insulin, the hormone used to convert blood sugar into energy. In
Type 2 diabetes, the body either can’t produce enough insulin or
becomes resistant to its effects.  Diabetes Cases  Type 2 diabetes tends to strike later in life, brought on
by obesity and sedentary lifestyles. The Type 2 form accounts
for 90 percent of the 347 million cases of diabetes globally,
according to the  World Health Organization  in Geneva.  The researchers collected blood samples from the 397
children who were included in two German birth cohort studies.
Exposures to air pollutants at their birth addresses were
estimated by analyzing emissions from road traffic in the
neighborhood, population density and land use in the area.  The measurements of blood insulin levels and estimates of
pollution were taken at different times, so the findings
“should be regarded with caution,” said Jon Ayres, a professor
of environmental and respiratory medicine at the University of
Birmingham in  England . A larger study should be conducted to
confirm the possible link, Ayres said in a statement.  A follow-up study at age 15 will explore how these findings
evolve during and after puberty and the effect of moving to a
cleaner area, Heinrich and his colleagues said.  The research was funded by the German Federal Ministry of
Education and Research and the European Community’s Seventh
Framework Program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  