-- Air Force Sex Abuse Chief’s Trial Set in Sex Assault Case
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-05-09T21:28:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/air-force-sex-abuse-chief-s-trial-set-in-sex-assault-case.html
Lieutenant Colonel Jeffrey Krusinski,
the U.S.  Air Force ’s top officer for sexual assault prevention,
had a trial set for July 18 at his first court appearance on a
charge of groping a woman in a suburban Virginia parking lot.  Krusinski, dressed in civilian clothes, didn’t enter a plea
to the misdemeanor charge at his arraignment today in county
court in Arlington, Virginia. His attorney,  Sheryl Shane , asked
Judge Richard McCue to schedule a trial for September, saying
she needed time to interview witnesses and collect evidence.  “I’m not going to set it that far out,” McCue replied.  Krusinski’s case comes amid a rising furor in Congress and
the administration over whether the military is doing enough to
protect personnel from sexual violence.  Two days after his arrest, the Pentagon released a survey
finding that sexual assaults had increased 35 percent over the
past two years.  The Air Force also is contending with the fallout from a
scandal involving the convictions of at least five military
instructors for sexual assaults or unprofessional relationships
with trainees or students at Lackland Air Force Base in  San
Antonio .  Lawmaker Scrutiny  In addition, two Air Force generals have come under
scrutiny recently by lawmakers for overturning jury convictions
in sexual-assault cases.  President  Barack Obama  on May 7 vowed to “exponentially
step up our game” to combat military sexual assaults.  Krusinski, 41, was arrested in the Washington suburb of
Arlington on May 5 after he allegedly “approached a female
victim in a parking lot and grabbed her breasts and buttocks,”
according to an Arlington County police  statement .  The incident occurred at 12:35 a.m. and Krusinski was drunk
at the time, according to the statement.  He was released on $5,000 bail. If convicted, he faces a
possible fine of $2,500 and 12 months in jail.  Krusinski didn’t speak during his brief court appearance
except to acknowledge that he understood the charges against
him.  After the hearing, he made his way through a gauntlet of
reporters, photographers and videographers, silent and staring
straight ahead. He entered a waiting car accompanied by Shane
and was driven away.  Branch Chief  Krusinski had been branch chief for the sexual-assault
prevention and response office since February. He was removed
from that job pending an investigation of the incident,
according to an Air Force statement.  On May 7, Arlington County Commonwealth Attorney Theo
Stamos declined an Air Force request to shift the case to the
military justice system, according to Lieutenant Colonel Laurel
Tingley, an Air Force spokeswoman.  Even if Krusinski is tried in a civilian court, he could
face disciplinary action by the military, although it would
require the approval of the secretary of the Air Force, Tingley
said. That would happen “only in the most unusual cases when
the ends of justice and discipline can be satisfied in no other
way,” Tingley said in an e-mail.  Air Force Secretary Michael Donley told the House
Appropriations subcommittee today that he will wait for the
civilian process to play out before determining whether further
action is warranted.  Personnel Posts  Krusinski was commissioned in 1994 following graduation
from the Air Force Academy and has spent the bulk of his
military career in personnel posts including stints at the
Pentagon in the Air Force Intelligence Analysis Agency and at
Wright-Patterson Air Force Base near Dayton,  Ohio , and MacDill
Air Force Base in Tampa, according to the Air Force office of
public affairs.  He deployed to  Iraq  from November 2009 to May 2010 and to
 Afghanistan  from August 2011 to February 2012, records show.  “His record is very good,” said General Mark Welsh, the
Air Force chief of staff, when questioned about Krusinski during
a Senate hearing on the Air Force budget on May 7, two days
after the arrest.  “There is no indication in his professional record or
performance or in his current workplace that there’s any type of
a problem like this,” Welsh said.  The case is Virginia v. Krusinski, GC13002001-00, Arlington
County General District Court (Arlington,  Virginia ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  