-- Alan Abelson, Barron’s Magazine Writer, Editor, Dies at 87
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2013-05-09T23:04:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/alan-abelson-barron-s-magazine-columnist-editor-dies-at-87.html
Alan Abelson, a columnist who cast a
skeptical eye on U.S. financial markets and skewered targets
from Alan Greenspan to  Warren Buffett  during more than four
decades at Barron’s magazine, has died. He was 87.  He died yesterday of a heart attack at a New York City
hospital, his son, Justin Abelson, said yesterday in an
interview. He had been dividing his time between his New York
apartment and a home in Croton-on-Hudson in Westchester County,
north of Manhattan.  “Financial journalism lost one of its leading lights
today,” Ed Finn, Barron’s editor, said in a statement on the
magazine’s  website . “One of the unique things about Alan was
that his keen knowledge of Wall Street was matched by his love
of artful writing.”  Abelson began the “Up & Down Wall Street” column in 1966,
a year after being named managing editor of the weekly
publication. He kept writing even after his 1981 promotion to
editor, which put him in charge of Barron’s, and his resignation
a dozen years later.  The column was known for its doubting attitude -- or
bearishiness, according to Abelson’s critics -- and for a
writing style that showcased his wit. After billionaire investor
Warren Buffett said in Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s  1996 annual
report  that the stock was “not undervalued,” Abelson wrote:  “To Warren Buffett we say, truth wounds, cynicism kills --
think on what ye hath wrought and repent! There’s still time to
revise that prospectus. A small phrase -- ‘just kidding’ --
inserted on the front page right below those caveats will do the
trick.”  Reputation Intact  “Up & Down Wall Street” included coverage of smaller
companies with questionable finances or prospects. While his
reporting inspired lawsuits, he emerged from those cases with
his reputation intact.  “He was very devoted to the magazine, and he took great
pride in the work his staff did and the fact that he helped the
field of economic journalism,” his son said.  Alan Abelson was born on Oct. 12, 1925, in New York City.
He received a bachelor of science degree in chemistry and
English from City College of New York in 1946, and a master’s
degree in creative writing from the  University of Iowa Writers
Workshop  a year later.  Newspaper Roots  After working as a freelance reporter and book-review
writer in New York for two years, Abelson was hired as a copy
boy at the New York Journal-American, a now-defunct newspaper.
He later became a reporter on the city desk and then moved to
the financial desk.  Abelson was the Journal-American’s stock-market columnist
from 1952 to 1956. He then joined Barron’s, where he initially
edited the Investment News & Views section and wrote corporate
and industry features. He became managing editor in 1965 and
succeeded Robert Bleiberg as editor in 1981.  In July 1982, Abelson began appearing on television. He
provided business commentaries for the NBC network’s News at
Sunrise until October 1990.  Abelson resigned as editor at the request of Dow Jones &
Co., now a unit of Rupert Murdoch’s  News Corp. (NWSA) , when the weekly
was redesigned. He agreed after being assured that the company
would select a successor he recommended, Managing Editor James
P. Meagher.  ‘Monstrous Dimensions’  Dow Jones asked him to remain as “Up & Down Wall Street”
columnist, and he did. Here’s how he described Alan Greenspan’s
performance as chairman of the Federal Reserve in light of U.S.
stocks’ 1990s surge and subsequent plunge:  “Pure and simple, save for the Fed, the stock market
bubble could never have reached the monstrous dimensions it did,
and its bursting would never have caused such a widespread and
profound misery as it has.”  In 1998, Abelson received the Loeb Foundation’s  Lifetime
Achievement Award  for financial journalism. A year later, the
New York Financial Writers Association gave him the Elliot  V.
Bell Award  for outstanding contributions to the profession.  Abelson’s stock-market views drew a retort from Victor Niederhoffer in his 2003 book  “Practical Speculation,”  which
the hedge-fund manager co-wrote with Laurel Kenner, a former
Bloomberg News editor.  “Though he is a clever and talented writer, by any
objective standard Abelson has the distinction of being one of
the worst market forecasters in history,” Niederhoffer wrote.
“He has been skeptical, if not outright bearish, on the stock
market for his entire career as a Barron’s columnist.”  Legal Victories  Abelson had been a target before. BusinessWeek magazine, in
an April 1975 article, alleged some investors found out the
contents of his column in advance. He responded with a libel
suit that was dropped in exchange for a public admission by
McGraw-Hill Cos., BusinessWeek’s publisher, that it had no
reason to believe he leaked information on purpose or acted
unethically.  Similar accusations appeared in a 1977 suit stemming from
his reporting on Technicare Corp., a medical-equipment maker,
and a 1987 case tied to the collapse of Creative Securities
Corp., a brokerage firm based in New York. Both suits were
ultimately dismissed.  “Back in the 1960s, people used to threaten to punch me in
the nose when I said something negative about a company,”
Abelson told the Washington Post in 1977. “Now we live in
different times.”  Abelson’s wife, Virginia, died in 1999. He is survived by
his son, Justin, the editorial page editor of the Recorder, a
newspaper in Greenfield, Massachusetts, his daughter, Reed
Abelson, a reporter at the New York Times and five
grandchildren.  To contact the writer of this story: David Wilson in New York at
   dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at  