-- Altering Immigration Bill Risks Losing Senators’ Votes
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-05-09T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/altering-immigration-bill-risks-losing-senators-votes.html
Democrats and Republicans alike are
seeking alterations in the Senate immigration proposal that may
imperil the bill as the Judiciary Committee begins considering
as many as 300 amendments.  The panel is starting today with provisions to improve
border security and define what goals must be met before the
U.S. government opens a path to citizenship for 11 million
immigrants now in the U.S. illegally. The bill was proposed by a
group of four Republican and four Democratic senators.  In their drafting of the legislation, the senators “found
a number of sweet spots” on contentious issues that foiled past
efforts to revise immigration laws, said Tamar Jacoby, president
of ImmigrationWorks USA, an organization of state-based business
groups seeking a new law.  “We might see a debate in the markup where we get pulled
way off those sweet spots in one direction and then way off
those sweet spots in the other direction,” Jacoby said.  Republicans will mainly focus on strengthening the bill’s
border security goals, which Democrats say can’t be made so
stringent that they become unreachable and prevent anyone from
becoming a citizen. Some Democrats are seeking  immigration 
protection for same-sex couples, which Republican authors of the
plan oppose.  “We haven’t come down with a definitive fine cut in terms
of what we accept and what we don’t,” said Illinois Senator
Richard Durbin, a Democratic co-sponsor of the bill, speaking of
the others in his group.  ‘Be Careful’  “I’ve heard some of the eight speak about strengthening
the bill,” Durbin said. “They might strengthen it to the
conservative liking at the expense of Democratic support. So
you’ve got to be careful.”  The border security provisions have been scrutinized more
heavily since the April 15  Boston Marathon bombings , which
prosecutors said were carried out by two brothers who legally
immigrated from Kyrgyzstan.  The Senate measure requires specific benchmarks to be met
in improving border security before undocumented immigrants can
begin qualifying for eventual citizenship. The apprehension rate
in illegal crossings must reach 90 percent in high-risk sectors
along the U.S.-Mexico border.  Senator Ted Cruz, a Texas Republican, is proposing a full
replacement of the border-security provisions. Cruz would triple
the number of Border Patrol agents along the U.S.-Mexico border
and quadruple surveillance equipment such as cameras and drones
before any prospective citizen could be granted “registered
provisional immigrant” status.  Security Screening  One of the bill’s Republican authors, Lindsey Graham of
South Carolina, wants to require additional security screening
of anyone seeking to become a citizen from a country that
“represents a threat, or contains groups or organizations that
represent a threat, to the national security of the United
States.”  Iowa Senator Charles Grassley, the Judiciary panel’s top
Republican, would bar prospective citizens from receiving
“registered provisional immigrant” status until the U.S.
maintained “effective control of the borders” for at least six
months.  Alabama Senator Jeff Sessions, a Republican among the
chamber’s most vocal opponents of the bill, proposes capping at
20 million the number of immigrants who could become permanent
residents in the first decade after the bill is enacted.  ‘Starting Point’  Sessions contends that creating a pathway to citizenship
for undocumented immigrants would undercut U.S. workers and harm
the economy. In a statement, Sessions called his proposal “a
starting point in scaling back the extraordinary and
unacceptable” flow of immigrants he said the plan would create.  On the Democratic side, Judiciary Chairman Patrick Leahy of
 Vermont  wants to add to the bill language that would treat
foreign nationals married to a same-sex U.S. citizen equally
with those married to a citizen of the opposite sex.  “For immigration reform to be truly comprehensive, it must
include protections for all families,” Leahy said in a
statement. “We must end the discrimination that gay and lesbian
families face in our immigration law.”  Graham told reporters that Leahy’s proposal is a “bad
idea” that would “kill the bill.” Two other Republican
members of the Senate group,  Florida ’s Marco Rubio and Arizona’s
John McCain, have said they oppose the same-sex provision.  Public Housing  Other Democratic amendments that may draw Republican
opposition include a proposal by Minnesota Democrat Al Franken
to make public housing assistance available to immigrants who
are victims of domestic abuse.  The committee handling the amendments -- a process expected
to run into next week -- includes several sponsors. Four members
of the bipartisan Senate group -- Democrats Durbin and Charles Schumer of New York and Republicans Graham and Jeff Flake of
 Arizona  -- are members of the Judiciary Committee.  “We’ll move a number of amendments, and maybe we’ll be
able to consolidate some, and I hope we can move quickly,”
Durbin said. “My guess is knowing the dynamics of senatorial
conduct people get worn out after a while, and we’re counting on
that.”  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat, has
said he plans to bring the immigration bill to the floor in June
after the Judiciary panel completes work on it.  White House spokesman Jay Carney said the administration is
monitoring the progress of the bill, S. 744, though he had no
comment on any of the proposed amendments.  “It is essential for a bill to emerge that is bipartisan
in nature, that achieves the principles” spelled out by
President  Barack Obama , Carney told reporters yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  