-- American’s $3.25 Billion in Bankruptcy Loans Win Approval
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-05-10T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/american-s-3-25-billion-in-bankruptcy-loans-win-approval.html
AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , the airline merging with
 US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) , won court approval to borrow as much as
$3.25 billion as it moves toward exiting bankruptcy.  AMR, the parent of  American Airlines , sought the financing
to take advantage of low interest rates, fund costs tied to its
reorganization and repay debt.  The loans, approved yesterday at a hearing in Manhattan by
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane, will be American’s “primary
source” of financing for emerging from bankruptcy, said Richard Hahn, an attorney for the Fort Worth, Texas-based company.  American filed for bankruptcy in 2011 and plans to merge
with US Airways to create the world’s largest airline. American
is set to complete its bankruptcy reorganization through the
merger with Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways later this year.  The financing will be backed by airport gates, takeoff and
landing slots, and routes between the U.S. and South America.
Banks including  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) 
and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. have made lending commitments,
according to court papers.  American yesterday also reached a settlement with the U.S.
Federal Aviation Administration to resolve $162 million in
claims asserted by the agency against the airline. Under the
deal, the FAA will receive $25 million in allowed claims in the
bankruptcy case, according to a court filing.  Government Claims  The government’s claims stem from enforcement actions that
alleged violations of federal aviation law, FAA regulations and
federal hazardous material regulations, American said. The
majority of the alleged violations occurred between March 2008
and the end of 2009, according to the filing.  The FAA previously said it had identified 36 separate
instances in which American violated safety rules, including
failure to perform repairs and mechanics mistakenly putting jets
back into service with inoperable equipment.  American had to cancel more than 3,300 flights over five
days in April 2008, stranding 360,000 passengers while wiring
inspections were conducted and repairs were made on MD-80
aircraft that made up almost half its fleet.  The FAA declined to comment beyond information contained in
the agreement, said Lynn Lunsford, a spokesman for the agency.  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  