-- Manchester Utd. Follows Ferguson Recommendation in Hiring Moyes
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-05-09T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/manchester-united-hires-moyes-to-succeed-ferguson-as-manager.html
Manchester United moved swiftly on
the recommendation of  Alex Ferguson  to find the retiring
manager’s successor.  Everton’s David Moyes was named yesterday to replace
Ferguson. The 50-year-old signed a six-year contract to take up
the role July 1, the Premier League soccer champion said.  The hiring came after Ferguson, who’s calling time on his
career after a 26-year United reign of unparalleled success,
recommended his fellow Scot. Moyes’s recruitment was then
unanimously approved by United’s board and announced about 30
hours after news of Ferguson’s retirement broke.  “The search for a new manager has been very short,”
United Co-Chairman Avie Glazer said in a club statement. “Alex
was very clear with his recommendation and we are delighted that
David has agreed to accept the job.”  Moyes has achieved regular top-half finishes in the league
in his 11 years at Everton. But the chance to replace Ferguson,
who won 38 trophies during his time at Old Trafford, takes his
career to another level and was one he couldn’t pass on.  “I know how hard it will be to follow the best manager
ever, but the opportunity to manage  Manchester United  isn’t
something that comes around very often and I’m really looking
forward to taking up the post next season,” Moyes said in the
United statement.  Ferguson, 71, will step down as British soccer’s most
successful manager after United’s final game against West Brom
on May 19. He won 13 of the club’s record 20 English
championships, along with two European Cups, and now turns
things over a man he tried to recruit as an assistant in 1998.  ‘Magnificent Job’  “He was a young man then at the start of his career and
has since gone on to do a magnificent job at Everton,” Ferguson
said. “There is no question he has all the qualities we expect
as a manager at this club.”  Moyes’s contract with Everton expires after the season and
he hadn’t signed an extension. He met with club Chairman Bill Kenwright two days ago to express his interest in the United job,
Everton said in a statement on its website.  “He’s been a great manager and Manchester United are very
lucky,” Kenwright said yesterday in an interview with  Sky
Sports . “We couldn’t stand in his way because he is out of
contract. It was his decision and he’s made it.”  Although Moyes didn’t win any trophies with Everton, the
club lacked the financial resources of  Manchester City , Chelsea
and United, which are owned by billionaires. Everton hasn’t
finished outside the top eight in the 20-team division since
2006.  ‘Energy and Commitment’  The Toffees qualified for the  Champions League  in 2005 and
reached the 2009 F.A. Cup final, where they lost to Chelsea. The
team’s last trophy was the 1995 F.A. Cup.  As well as sharing Glaswegian roots, Moyes and Ferguson are
both record three-time winners of the League Managers
Association Manager of the Year award, which is voted by coaches
in  England ’s four professional soccer leagues.  “I have no doubt that he will bring an energy and
commitment to deliver winning football that is part of the
fabric of this club,” United Vice Chairman Ed Woodward said.
“In this respect, he is cut from the same cloth as the Old
Trafford greats who go before him.”  Everton is sixth in the Premier League with two games left,
six points behind fifth-place Tottenham, though five ahead of
Merseyside rival Liverpool. Moyes will be in charge for the
team’s last two matches, against West Ham on May 12 and Chelsea
seven days later.  “He has been a significant manager for 11 years and I know
that Evertonians will look upon  David Moyes  with gratitude and
admiration,” Kenwright told Sky Sports. “We’ll be with him for
the next two games and not for two games next season, I can
promise you that.”  Everton said it will immediately begin the search for his
successor. Celtic manager Neil Lennon is the 13-8 favorite with
bookmaker Coral, followed by Wigan coach  Roberto Martinez  at 5-2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  