-- Apache to Divest $4 Billion in Assets and Buy Back Shares
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2013-05-09T13:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/apache-to-divest-4-billion-in-assets-and-buy-back-shares-1-.html
Apache Corp. (APA) , this year’s third-worst
performing oil and natural gas producer on Standard & Poor’s
energy index, plans to sell $4 billion in assets by yearend and
buy back shares as first-quarter profit missed analysts’
estimates.  Apache, based in Houston, will use initial proceeds of $2
billion to pay down debt, according to a statement today. The
balance will be used to buy back as many as 30 million shares.  Apache didn’t identify the assets it intends to sell and
said deals may include divestitures or joint-venture agreements.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Steve Farris said in a
March 18 interview that all assets were up for review as it
pursued at least $2 billion in asset sales after a two-year, $16
billion acquisition spree.  “We have a process well underway to divest non-core
assets,” Farris said in today’s statement. “We are pursuing
other monetizations including joint-venture partnerships.”  Patrick Cassidy, an Apache spokesman, declined to comment
on any additional assets that may be sold in a telephone
interview today.  Apache reported first-quarter net income fell 10 percent to
$717 million, or $1.76 a share. Excluding one-time items such as
adjustments to the value of forward contracts and property
writedowns, profit was $2.02 a share, 19 cents less than the
average of 27 analysts’s estimates compiled by Bloomberg  Output Drops  First-quarter production equivalent to 781,819 barrels of
oil missed expectations by about 1.6 percent, Hsulin Peng, an
analyst for Robert W. Baird & Co. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut ,
wrote today in a note to clients. Cyclones interrupted output
in  Australia , Apache said.  The shares rose 1 percent to $78.50 at 8:56 a.m. in New
York before regular trading began.  Apache operates in the U.S.,  Canada , North Sea, Western
Australia,  Egypt  and Argentina, according to the company
 website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  