-- Apple Wins Order on Google Documents in Samsung Case
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-05-09T19:40:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/apple-wins-order-on-google-documents-in-samsung-case.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  was ordered by a judge to
reveal how it’s searching for internal documents related to its
Android operating system sought by  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in a patent-infringement lawsuit against  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)   U.S. Magistrate Judge Paul S. Grewal in  San Jose ,
 California , ordered Google within two days to disclose what
terms it’s using to find documents Apple has requested in
pretrial information sharing, and to tell Apple which Google
employees those documents came from. Google had argued the
collection of information would be too burdensome.  “The court cannot help but note the irony that Google, a
pioneer in searching the Internet, is arguing that it would be
unduly burdened by producing a list of how it searched its own
files,” Grewal wrote in his order.  Apple seeks the information as part of its second patent
case against Samsung in the same court, arguing that Google’s
Android is used in all of Samsung’s allegedly infringing
products and “provides much of the accused functionality” in
Apple’s claims, according to a court filing.  The second case covers technology in newer smartphones made
by both companies, including its iPhone 5 and Samsung’s Galaxy S
III. The suit follows a previous case in which a jury awarded
Cupertino, California-based Apple $1.05 billion in damages,
finding Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung infringed six of the
iPhone maker’s mobile-device patents.  New Trial  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh, correcting what she said was
the jury’s error, lowered the damages total to $639.4 million
and ordered a new damages trial in November for some of the
products at issue in that case. In the second case, Koh last
month narrowed the lawsuit so that each side can claim the other
infringed no more than five patents and 10 products.  Google, based in  Mountain View , California, argued that as
a third party to the case, it isn’t obligated by the legal rules
Apple and Samsung must abide by.  “Third party status does not confer a right to obfuscation
or obstinacy,” Grewal wrote in his ruling, ordering Google to
produce the information to Apple within 48 hours of today’s
order. The information will “aid in uncovering the sufficiency
of Google’s production and serves greater purposes of
transparency in discovery,” Grewal wrote.  A Google representative didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the ruling.  The earlier case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co.
Ltd., 11-cv-1846, and the second case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung
Electronics Co., 12-cv-630, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  