-- Aquino Sweats to Solve Mindanao Power Failure: Southeast Asia
-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p   a n d   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o
-- 2013-05-09T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/aquino-sweats-to-solve-mindanao-power-failure-southeast-asia.html
Shrinking water levels threaten to
cut Mindanao’s power supply by as much as a third just as
President  Benigno Aquino  seeks to convince voters he’s reducing
electricity shortages in the Philippines’ second-biggest island.  The water elevation at Lanao Lake, which powers the 700-megawatt Agus hydroelectric plant, may decline this month and
require state-run National Power Corp. to cut output from the
facility supplying more than a third of the island’s
electricity, it said on April 8. Factories and shops must shut
May 13 to ensure voting precincts have power for nationwide
elections, Energy Secretary Jericho Petilla said May 8.  Power shortages are threatening $1 billion of investments
sought by Mindanao, the southern island where Muslim guerillas
agreed in October to end a 40-year insurgency. Subsidized
electricity that costs almost half as much as in Luzon, the main
island, is fueling demand while discouraging construction of new
plants and leading to rolling blackouts. Aquino, who has three
years remaining in his single six-year term, is campaigning to
increase his support in elections for the Senate.  “The people of Mindanao can no longer rely on
hydroelectric plants if they want stable power,” said Francisco Viray, president of  Trans-Asia Oil & Energy Development (TA)  Corp.
and a former energy secretary. Mindanao is home to 19 of the
nation’s 44 poorest provinces. “At some point, they will have
to accept that power prices will rise.”  Luzon Blackouts  Parts of  Manila  and half of the island of Luzon were hit by
a  power failure  May 8 that lasted as long as 10 hours, prompting
Aquino to order a probe. Homes and businesses in Mindanao, which
accounts for about a fifth of the Philippine economy, faced 12-hour daily power failures during the El Nino year of 2011 when
Lake Lanao almost dried up. Zamboanga City on the island had
eight hours of blackouts in March, twice as much as in the final
quarter of 2012.  “The Mindanao situation for years now is like being in a
room that’s already burning and nobody is rushing to get water
or call for help,” Pedro Rufo Soliven, president of Zamboanga
City’s chamber of commerce and operator of a three-story
department store in the city, said in a phone interview.  Mindanao is home to a quarter of the  Philippines  population
of about 100 million. The nation needs 3.2 trillion pesos ($78.4
billion) of investments in power generation to ensure it will
have sufficient electricity by 2030, according to the latest
 Philippine Energy Plan .  Cheap Power  “In Mindanao, we have a power shortage brought about by
neglect for too long a time,” Aquino said in a May 8 interview.
“There is already a demand and there will be more of the demand
once the framework peace agreement is completed, the whole
process is done and we have peace.”  A 2001 law reforming the Philippine power industry allowed
National Power to sell its plants to help pay $16.4 billion of
debt. Mindanao’s plants weren’t covered by the law and remained
government-owned to keep down power rates. As power remained
artificially cheap, investors were deterred from building
generating plants, according to Viray.  National Power’s  generation price in Mindanao is about 3
pesos per kilowatt-hour, compared with about 5.70 pesos in Luzon
and 4.60 pesos in Visayas, according to data from its website.  “This focus on maintaining cheap power in an unsustainable
manner also scared away investors, who did not have the
confidence to set up alternative-power resources in Mindanao,”
Aquino said in a speech on April 17, when a unit of  Filinvest
Development Corp. (FDC)  committed to build a 270-megawatt coal-fired
plant in Misamis Oriental province.  While Aquino inherited the situation, he hasn’t done much
to solve it, Benito Lim, a political science professor at the
Ateneo de Manila University, said by phone. Shortages started
during the administration of the late President  Corazon Aquino ,
Benigno’s mother, when she scrapped power contracts forged by
 Ferdinand Marcos , according to Lim.  Elections  The Commission on Elections requires National Power to keep
supply stable for a week starting May 13, when half of the
Senate and all local officials will face voters. Mindanao’s
dependable power capacity stands at 1,399 megawatts, compared
with the 1,183 megawatts of demand forecast during the vote.  Aquino, who has the support of almost three-quarters of
voters, is using his popularity to expand his support in the 24-member Senate. The 53-year-old president signed a pact with the
rebel group Moro Islamic Liberation Front on Oct. 15, quelling a
rebellion that has killed as many as 200,000 in Mindanao and
blocked companies from tapping mineral deposits valued at about
$312 billion.  New capacity from companies including  Aboitiz Power Corp. (AP) 
and  Energy Development Corp. (EDC)  are set to start boosting supply as
early as 2014, according to data from the energy department.
 Manila Electric Co. (MER) , the nation’s largest power retailer, said
it’s planning a 300-megawatt coal-fired plant in Mindanao.  Until the new plants come on line, electric utilities can
use power purchases to augment supply, Petilla said in March.
That may be too late for this summer, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net ;
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net ;
Lars Klemming in Singapore at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  