-- Aquino Warns Big-Brother China on Trade Fallout Over Sea Spat
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   J o e l   G u i n t o
-- 2013-05-09T06:08:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/aquino-warns-big-brother-china-on-trade-fallout-over-sea-spat.html
Philippine President  Benigno Aquino 
said China may harm relations with its trading partners if it
fails to respect a United Nations-backed arbitration ruling over
its claims in disputed waters with oil and gas reserves.  “Hopefully they will see that it is in their interest to
be fair,” Aquino said in an interview in  Manila  yesterday, when
asked about the chances China would comply with an international
ruling. “Continued growth on their part means access to markets
and resources. When you become fearful of relationships with
them, access to both becomes hampered.”  The Philippines asked the  United Nations  in January to rule
on its maritime disputes with China. A five-member arbitral
tribunal was appointed last month and will decide by July if it
has jurisdiction, Foreign Affairs Secretary Albert del Rosario
said on April 26.  Aquino has struggled to deter  China  from asserting its
claims to disputed territory and has bolstered ties with the
U.S., a treaty ally, and countries such as  Japan  and  Vietnam 
that also are mired in territorial disputes with the Chinese
government.  China has “effective occupation” of Scarborough Shoal,
where three of its ships remain, one year after a standoff
between Philippine and Chinese ships, Del Rosario said on April
26. The land feature is about three times closer to the
Philippines than to China, the Philippines said in an
arbitration note.  “We are being shooed away from our fishing grounds,”
Aquino said, referring to the Scarborough Shoal area. “You have
one big brother who is not too benevolent at the present time so
hopefully the arbitration will lead to a clear delineation of
everybody’s rights and everybody’s responsibilities.”  China’s Dominance  Southeast Asia  is growing more reliant on trade with China,
which is a gateway for shipments to advanced economies, the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said in a
November report. Sixteen Asian nations including China plan to
start talks on a regional trade agreement this month.  Japan’s purchase last year of islands known as Senkaku in
Japan and Diaoyu in China, led to Chinese protests and roiled
trade ties between Asia’s two biggest economies. Anti-Japan
demonstrations reduced China sales at  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,  Nissan
Motor (7201)  Co. and Honda Motor Co.  China last month unveiled plans to build more aircraft
carriers after commissioning its first last year. It sent a
naval patrol in March to the southernmost area of its nine-dash
map, which incorporates most of the  South China Sea , to
“safeguard the country’s sovereignty,” according to the
official Xinhua News Agency.  Sea Map  “I don’t want to sound racist, but there seems to be a bit
of inscrutability in trying to understand the Chinese
intentions,” Aquino said. He has Chinese roots and visited the
hometown of his ancestors in  Fujian province  in 2011.  The Philippines and Vietnam reject China’s map of the sea,
first published in the 1940s, as a basis for joint exploration
of oil and gas. China claims “indisputable sovereignty” over
more than 100 islets, atolls and reefs that form the Paracel and
Spratly Islands, and jurisdiction over the seabed and subsoil.  China has said the tribunal has no grounds to accept the
 Philippines  case, and that it prefers to resolve the dispute
through direct negotiation. The Philippines is illegally
occupying China’s islands in the waters, Foreign Ministry
spokeswoman Hua Chunying told reporters in Beijing on April 26.  Economic ties have strengthened in the past few years
between Asian countries even as territorial disputes have
increased, Li Mingjiang, associate professor at the S.
Rajaratnam School of International Studies in  Singapore , said by
phone.  Cables Cut  “Unless China appears to be prepared to use military force
anytime soon in these disputes, we don’t see any clear sign that
there is an economic containment policy against China in the
region,” he said.  China National Offshore Oil Corp. estimates the South China
Sea may hold about five times more undiscovered natural gas than
the country’s current proved reserves, according to the U.S.
Energy Information Administration. China surpassed the U.S. as
the world’s largest energy user in 2010.  China has cut the cables of survey ships working for
Vietnam, chased away an exploration vessel operating off the
Philippine coastline and sent its first deep-water drilling rig
to the region. Last year, Cnooc invited foreign oil firms to bid
in areas that Vietnam already awarded to companies including
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  OAO Gazprom. (GAZP)   Aquino’s predecessor,  Gloria Arroyo , signed an agreement in
2005 with China and Vietnam on joint seismic surveys in disputed
waters. That accord was abandoned on concerns over corruption
and whether it complied with the constitution.  “The first step has to be, finish the arbitration
procedure and then have it clearcut,” said Aquino. “To be
realistic about it, how does one push around a superpower?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  