-- Largest Container Ships Help Hyundai Heavy Crack China: Freight
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-05-10T01:26:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/largest-container-ships-help-hyundai-heavy-crack-china-freight.html
Hyundai Heavy Industries Co. (009540)  failed
for eight years to win ship orders from  China . That ended when
it pledged to build the world’s biggest container carrier.  China Shipping Container Lines Co. (2866)  this week said it chose
 Hyundai Heavy  to construct five vessels that can each carry
18,400 20-foot boxes. The world’s biggest yard, which has
already won orders for five 14,000-box vessels this year, beat
Chinese builders for the $683 million contract.  Rising demand for bigger and more fuel-efficient ships from
lines including  A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB)  will help South Korean
yards boost profits amid an overall slump in orders caused by a
vessel glut. The nation’s shipbuilders have dominated the
construction of mega ships that are longer than Eiffel Tower as
they built almost all such vessels in operation.  “Making these ships isn’t easy,” said Park Moo Hyun, an
analyst at E*Trade Securities  Korea . “South Korean yards are
the only ones that have proved these big ships can be built on
time. Chinese shipyards are still way behind and that gap is
only going to get wider.”  Since 2010, yards in  South Korea  delivered all except one
of the 143 vessels that can carry more than 10,000 boxes,
according to  Clarkson Plc , the world’s biggest shipbroker.  Hyundai Heavy dropped 1 percent to 201,500 won as of 10:21
a.m. in  Seoul  trading. The stock has fallen 17 percent this
year, compared with a 1.7 percent decline in the benchmark Kospi
index.  14,000 Boxes  A South Korean yard previously won a Chinese order for
container ships in August 2007, Park said.  Samsung Heavy
Industries Co. (010140) , the world’s second-largest shipbuilder, got the
contract, also from China Shipping, to build eight vessels with
a capacity to haul 14,000 boxes each. The ships were delivered
by the first half of last year.  Hyundai Heavy’s previous order from China was in January
2005 for four container ships that can each carry 10,000 boxes,
the Ulsan, South Korea-based company said. The vessels were all
delivered by 2008.  China Shipping placed the order with Hyundai Heavy after a
tender in which Chinese yards also participated, the carrier
said in an e-mail. As much as 70 percent of the price would be
paid when the ships are delivered. The company favors Chinese
builders when conditions and offers match, it said.  “Korean yards do have the capability to build better,
giant ships,” said Sarah Wang, a Shanghai-based analyst at
Masterlink Securities Corp. “China Shipping may have placed the
order because of the technology.”  New Engine  The new ships will use an engine that can automatically
control fuel consumption to suit speed and sea conditions. The
technology will help improve  fuel efficiency , reduce noise and
cut emissions. Delivery will start in the second half of 2014.  “It’s true we never built ships that can carry 18,000
boxes, but that doesn’t mean we don’t have the technology,”
said Wang Jinlian, secretary general of the  China Association of
National Shipbuilding Industry . “We just don’t have the
experience, but everything has a beginning.”  Chinese yards had an orderbook of 218 million deadweight
tons in 2008, overtaking South Korea as the world’s biggest
shipbuilding nation, according to Clarkson. At the end of March,
their backlog dropped to 106.5 million tons, compared with South
Korea’s 62.3 million tons, according to the shipbroker’s data.  Spot Rates  Chinese shipping lines should be encouraged to place orders
with local yards, Wang said. Some shipping lines are in talks
with Chinese builders for vessels that can carry 16,000
containers, he said without elaboration.  After China Shipping announced the latest purchase, the
 China Shipowners’ Association  said new orders will exacerbate
the overcapacity in the industry and spur a further
deterioration in the market. Spot rates for cargo hauled to
 Europe  from  Asia  have fallen 35 percent this year to $796 per
box last week, according to the Shanghai Shipping Exchange.  “If the massive order continues, even five years will not
be enough for the market to see the light,” Zhang Shouguo,
executive vice president of the association, said in a May 7
 statement  on the group’s website. “Fuel-efficient vessels are
the future, but banks, financial institutions, shipowners and
cargo owners should take an extremely cautious attitude toward
shipping investment.”  Hurting Margins  Ship prices have plunged because of the overcapacity and
industrywide losses, hurting margins at shipbuilders. Prices for
a vessel that can carry as many as 13,500 boxes have fallen to
$106 million in April, the lowest since Clarkson started
compiling the figure in June 2008.  Global orders for all type of ships dropped 38 percent to
51.1 million deadweight tons last year, the lowest since 2001,
according to Clarkson. Shipping lines have sold older vessels
and non-core assets as they posted losses for a second year in
2012, according to  Alphaliner .  Companies are also sailing slower, with the  average speed 
of  container ships  dropping 16 percent in the past three years
to 10.04 knots, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Reducing the speed of container ships by 10 percent can pare
fuel consumption by as much as 30 percent, according to ship
assessor  Det Norske Veritas .  While overcapacity is a concern, it won’t stop shipowners
from ordering more advanced vessels that will help pare fuel
costs and reduce emissions, according to Um Kyung A, an analyst
at Shinyoung Securities Co. in Seoul.  “Cutting costs is very crucial for shipping lines,” Um
said. “During these difficult times, who can make money and who
can’t will pretty much depend on who can cut costs more
effectively.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vipin V. Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net  