-- Harper to Visit New York in Push for Keystone Approval
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-05-09T18:03:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/harper-to-visit-new-york-in-push-for-keystone-approval.html
Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  will
visit the U.S. next week as Canada intensifies efforts to secure
approval of  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL pipeline.  Harper will be interviewed by former Treasury Secretary
 Robert Rubin  at an event in New York organized by the Council of
Foreign Relations, the organization said in an e-mailed
advisory.  Harper will follow a path well worn recently by federal
cabinet ministers and provincial leaders. Alberta Premier Alison Redford promoted the $5.3 billion pipeline to Democrat and
Republican lawmakers last month, her fourth trip to Washington
in a year and a half, after Saskatchewan Premier Brad Wall’s
March visit.  Natural Resources Minister Joe Oliver met last month in
Washington with officials including Secretary of the Interior
Sally Jewel, State Department Undersecretary  Robert Hormats ,
Democratic Senator  Ron Wyden  of Oregon and Republican
Representative  Fred Upton  of Michigan.  The Keystone project, under State Department review, would
carry heavy crude from Canadian oil-sands fields to U.S.
refineries near the  Gulf of Mexico . Last year, Obama denied a
permit for the line, citing concerns tied to Nebraska’s drinking
water, and Calgary-based TransCanada resubmitted its plan with a
new route.  A draft State Department analysis of Keystone, released in
March, said the project posed no significant risks to the
environment, though it made no recommendation as to whether the
pipeline should be built.  Pipeline Bottlenecks  Canadian policy makers and provincial leaders say pipeline
bottlenecks are constraining exports, curbing growth and
stifling government revenue.  The price of Western Canada Select, an oil-sands blend, was
a record $42.50 a barrel less than the U.S. benchmark in
December. The difference has since narrowed as output slipped
and on speculation of higher U.S. demand from refineries.  Canadian energy stocks have underperformed U.S. peers by
about 13 percentage points over the last year, as the price gap
between Canadian heavy oil and the main U.S. crude grade
widened, figures compiled by Bloomberg show.  Harper said April 11 the federal government is lobbying for
approval of Keystone XL at “every level” in coordination with
the nation’s provinces. Harper said he has spoken to President
 Barack Obama  on “several occasions.” Obama has said he intends
to rule on the project this year.  “This is a matter that I think is vital to both the
economic growth and energy security, not just of all of Canada,
but the United States as well,” he told reporters in Calgary.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  