-- Yen Slides to 100 Per Dollar as S&P 500 Drops From Record
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i ,   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-05-09T20:06:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/asian-stocks-gain-before-china-data-kiwi-rises-on-jobless-drop.html
The yen slid to 100 per dollar for the
first time in four years, extending losses triggered by the Bank
of  Japan ’s deflation-fighting efforts. U.S. 30-year bonds erased
gains while U.S. benchmark stock indexes fell from records.  The yen sank 1.6 percent to 100.62 per dollar as of 4 p.m.
in  New York  as it weakened against all 16 major peers. Thirty-year Treasury rates rose one basis point to 3.00 percent after
sliding four basis points earlier. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index lost 0.4 percent to 1,626.67 after setting records for
five straight days. Copper fell 0.9 percent, while agricultural
commodities rallied.  Japan’s currency has dropped 4.2 percent since April 4 when
BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda outstripped economist forecasts by
pledging to double monthly bond purchases and scoop up longer-term debt to reach a 2 percent annual inflation goal. The
currency last traded at 100 on April 14, 2009. Today’s weakness
in the yen also came after U.S. jobless claims unexpectedly
declined to a five-year low and a Federal Reserve official
discussed the possibility of scaling back stimulus.  “We’ve seen these brightening prospects for the U.S. job
market, a burst of news last week with the payrolls number, and
again today with the weekly jobless claims tally,”  Joe Manimbo ,
a market analyst at Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of
Western Union Co., said in a phone interview from  Washington .
“Signs of an improving U.S. job market has finally chipped away
and made a difference against the yen.”  The Japanese currency fell as much as 1.7 percent versus
the dollar, the biggest drop since April 2009. The currencies of
Taiwan,  South Africa  and  New Zealand  also rallied more than 1
percent versus the yen.  Treasury Auction  Thirty-year Treasuries rallied earlier after a $16 billion
auction of the debt drew a yield of 2.980 percent, compared with
a forecast of 2.997 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of nine
of the  Federal Reserve ’s primary dealers. Thirty- and 10-year
yields are trading near the highest levels in a month.  “Higher yields drew demand, as well as the fact that
there’s no supply for two weeks,” said Dan Mulholland, head of
U.S. Treasury trading in the capital-markets unit of BNY Mellon
Corp. in New York. “It was better than expected. It prompted
some short-coverings.” Short positions are bets than an asset
will decline in value.  The S&P 500 slipped in morning trading before recovering
losses in the early afternoon and then returning lower.  Six straight months of gains have sent the S&P 500 to 15.9
times reported operating earnings, the highest valuation in
almost three years. Stocks have rallied this year, adding almost
$5 trillion to the value of global equities as central banks
from the U.S. to Europe and Japan buy bonds and cut borrowing
costs to revive economic growth.  Plosser Remarks  Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia President  Charles
Plosser  said unemployment will probably fall to 7 percent at the
end of 2013 and he would favor reducing the Fed’s $85 billion
monthly pace of bond purchases next month.  “I would like to see us begin to scale this thing back
beginning even as early as the next meeting” of the  Federal
Open Market Committee , Plosser said to reporters after a speech
today in New York. The committee is scheduled to meet June
18-19. Plosser doesn’t vote on policy this year.  Plosser’s remarks highlight a debate within the FOMC on
whether to expand or curb a pace of bond purchases that has
pumped up the central bank’s balance sheet to $3.32 trillion. At
their April 30-May 1 meeting, policy makers said they’re
prepared to increase bond buying in response to changes in the
labor market or inflation.  Five Records  The  S&P 500  reached a record for a fifth day yesterday and
has jumped 14 percent this year to extend its rebound from a
bear-market low in 2009 to 140 percent. Among shares moving
today, Monster Beverage Corp. sank 5.4 percent after saying
sales growth slowed in April.  News Corp . advanced 4.5 percent
after saying net income tripled and topped analysts’ estimates.
Apache Corp. jumped 4.8 percent after saying it will divest $4
billion in assets and buy back shares.  Applications for unemployment insurance payments decreased
by 4,000 to 323,000 in the week ended May 4, the least since
January 2008, Labor Department figures showed today. Economists
forecast 335,000 claims, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey. The four-week average declined to 336,750, the
lowest since November 2007, the month before the start of the
worst economic slump since the Great Depression.  European Markets  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index closed up less than 0.1 percent
at the highest level since June 2008. Snam SpA, the owner of
Italy’s biggest natural-gas network, sank 5.1 percent as Eni
SpA, the nation’s largest oil company, sold an 11.7 percent
stake for about 1.5 billion euros ($2 billion).  Experian Plc (EXPN) 
rallied 6.4 percent as the biggest credit-checking company
reported earnings that topped analysts’ estimates and raised its
dividend.  “We’ve had 11 straight months of gains” for stocks in
Europe, Henry Dixon, a  fund manager  at Matterley Ltd. in  London ,
said by phone. “This is very unchartered territory. It is
understandable people are nervous.”  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index erased early gains and fell
0.2 percent, snapping a four-day rally. Emerging market
technology shares surged to a 13-year high as Samsung
Electronics Co. rallied 1.8 percent as  South Korea  cut  interest
rates .  South Korea’s Kospi index jumped 1.2 percent after the
central bank lowered the benchmark seven-day repurchase rate to
2.5 percent from 2.75 percent. Six of 20 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg predicted the move, while the remainder forecast no
change. The Korean won lost 0.9 percent versus the dollar.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  lost 0.6 percent after
producer prices declined more than forecast.  Commodities  Copper futures fell the most in a week, losing 2.6 percent
to $3.3405 a pound in New York, on signs that demand may ease in
 China , the world’s biggest consumer of industrial metals.
China’s producer prices slid 2.6 percent in April from a year
earlier, government data showed. Copper has lost 8.5 percent
this year.  West Texas Intermediate oil dropped 23 cents to $96.39 a
barrel. UN carbon permits rose 18 percent to their highest in
three weeks, trading at 40 euro cents on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in London.  Corn rallied 2.5 percent and wheat jumped 2.5 percent on
speculation that overnight rain in the Midwest and more forecast
for next week will curb planting progress and increase risks for
lower U.S. yields. Soybeans added 1.3 percent.  Spain’s five-year yield rose six basis points to 2.90
percent. Investors submitted bids for 1.62 times the amount of
the 13-year securities sold today, down from 2.85 times at the
previous auction in January. The so-called bid-to-cover ratio
The so-called bid-to-cover ratio also dropped for three- and
five-year notes as the government sold a combined 4.57 billion
euros ($6 billion) of securities.  ‘Taking a Breather’  “The market is taking a breather, reflecting the fact that
yields have fallen so much in recent weeks,” said Pablo
Zaragoza, a strategist at Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA in
 Madrid .  Italy’s 10-year rate increased five basis points to 3.88
percent, while German bund yields was little changed at 1.27
percent.  The cost of insuring European corporate bonds climbed for a
second day, rising from a three-year low. The Markit iTraxx
Europe Index of 125 investment-grade companies added two basis
points to 92.5 basis points, the highest level since May 2.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  