-- Assad Opponents Rebuff U.S.-Russia Call for Syria Talks
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-05-09T17:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/assad-opponents-rebuff-u-s-russia-call-for-syria-talks.html
Syria’s opposition is spurning efforts
by the U.S. and  Russia  to convene talks between Bashar al-Assad’s regime and his opponents in an effort to end two years
of warfare and empower a transitional government.  The Syrian National Coalition said any political solution
“should start with the departure of Bashar al-Assad and the
pillars of his regime,” according to a statement yesterday on
its Facebook page that cast doubt on prospects for new talks.  Seeking to assuage such concerns, Secretary of State  John Kerry  said today that Assad won’t be part of any transitional
government. Kerry and Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov 
agreed May 7 to press for an international conference seeking a
negotiated settlement to the conflict, which the  United Nations 
says has claimed more than 70,000 lives since March 2011.  Assad’s government welcomed the joint initiative. Syria
believes Russia will maintain its opposition to interference in
Syrian internal affairs and the use or threat of force, the
Foreign Ministry said in a statement, according to the official
news agency SANA. The “credibility” of U.S. backing for a
political solution depends on “working seriously with its
allies to halt the violence and terrorism,” it said.  Kerry, speaking during a visit to  Rome , said that
conversations yesterday with the opposition and other nations to
prepare the ground for the U.S.-Russian initiative have been
productive. The U.S. ambassador to Syria,  Robert Ford , arrived
in Istanbul yesterday to meet with opposition leaders in a bid
to persuade them to participate.  ‘Mutual Consent’  Seeking Russian support, Kerry had earlier softened the
U.S. public demand that Assad must go, saying a decision on
Syria’s leadership transition must be made by “mutual consent”
of the current regime and the opposition. Russia says Assad’s
resignation can’t be a precondition for talks.  Kerry said today that a Russian sale of ground-to-air
missile systems to Syria would be “potentially destabilizing”
for the  Middle East , including  Israel , and that the U.S. has
expressed concern to Russia about sales of air-defense missiles.  “I think we’ve made it crystal clear we would prefer that
Russia was not supplying assistance,” Kerry said at a joint
news conference in Rome with Italian Foreign Minister Emma Bonino. The Wall Street Journal reported that Israel has told
the U.S. a deal is imminent for Russia to sell S-300 missile
batteries to Assad’s regime.  Assad’s Future  The U.S.-Russian proposal for Syria negotiations is short
on details and circumvents the future status of Assad should
talks get under way. At the White House yesterday, spokesman  Jay Carney  said the U.S. hasn’t shifted it basic view. Syria’s
future “cannot include” Assad, he said.  Opposition officials expect that the U.S. will try to use
the influence of friendly nations, such as  Saudi Arabia , to get
them to attend a conference where Assad and his government are
represented, Samir Nashar, a member of the Syrian National
Coalition, told Al Arabiya TV. The starting point for any
negotiation is Assad’s departure, he said.  The U.S.-Russia initiative “is the first hopeful news
concerning that unhappy country in a very long time,” Lakhdar Brahimi, the UN special envoy for Syria, said in a statement.  Russia, whose ties with the Assad dynasty date back to the
Soviet era, has vetoed three European-drafted UN Security
Council resolutions condemning the Syrian government’s crackdown
and threatening to impose economic sanctions. Russia has
defended its actions, saying the opposition was equally to blame
for the violence and that Western powers were seeking a Libya-style regime change.  Geneva Agreement  In Geneva last year, Russia and anti-Assad nations agreed
in principle to UN-brokered guidelines to bring the conflict to
a close. Still, difficulties arose when it came down to details
and bringing about a transition.  Kerry met May 7 with Lavrov and Russian President  Vladimir Putin  amid calls from some Democrats and Republicans in the  U.S.
Congress  for American intervention in the civil war.  During the news conference with Kerry, Lavrov faulted the
rebels for impeding talks, saying he’d talked the previous day
by telephone with Syrian Foreign Minister Walid al-Muallem, who
confirmed the Assad government’s readiness for dialogue.  Lavrov said Russia feels strongly that it’s “up to the
Syrian people” to decide the fate of its current leaders and
the composition of a future government. He added that Russia
isn’t “interested in the fate of certain persons” -- a
reference to Assad.  Kerry said opposition leaders have expressed their
commitment to holding talks, issuing a declaration in Istanbul
last month supporting a transition proposal. The Geneva
communique called on all parties to cease violence and
participate in a Syrian-led political process to create a
transitional government.  “The alternative is that there’s even more violence,”
Kerry said. “The alternative is that  Syria  heads closer to an
abyss, if not over the abyss and into chaos.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Rome at  ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  