-- Latham, Bryan, Alston & Bird, O’Melveny: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-05-09T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/latham-bryan-alston-bird-o-melveny-business-of-law.html
Latham & Watkins LLP is opening a new
office in Dusseldorf and hiring four partners from Shearman &
Sterling LLP, which announced the closing of two German offices
last month.  The new partners in Dusseldorf include Harald Selzner,
Rainer Wilke and Martin Neuhaus, who have experience in complex
mergers and acquisitions. Markus Rieder, a litigator, will be
based in Latham’s Munich office.  “Dusseldorf is the epicenter of legal activity catering to
German blue-chip corporations,” Latham’s Vice Chairwoman Ora Fisher said in a phone interview.  She said the firm had been looking to open a Dusseldorf
office for several years and that these lawyers fit well with
their current practice, which includes three German offices. The
new partners’ mergers-and-acquisitions practice is more focused
on private-equity work, which will complement Latham’s practice,
which handles more strategic corporate matters.  Shearman announced a restructuring of its German leadership
and the move of several partners from the closing offices to the
firm’s remaining German office, in  Frankfurt . With the departure
of Wilke and Rieder, the firm lost its German managing partners.  Shearman’s Frankfurt office, which will be a hub of its
 Germany  practice, will be led by M&A partner Thomas Konig and
tax partner Bodo Bender, who have been named German managing
partner and deputy managing partner, respectively. Georg Thoma
and Alfred Kossmann will join the firm’s corporate/M&A group in
Frankfurt from Dusseldorf. Winfried Carli will join the finance
team in Frankfurt, working with the capital markets team.  Richard Kreindler will continue to lead the firm’s
international arbitration/litigation practice in Germany, the
firm said.  Creighton Condon, Shearman & Sterling’s senior partner,
said in an e-mailed statement about the departing lawyers,
“They are all outstanding lawyers, and we wish them the best.”  Fisher declined to comment on what clients the new lawyers
will bring with them. Past clients have included Daimler,
Allianz, E.ON and Siemens, according to Shearman’s website.  Thomas Fox, Latham’s Munich managing partner, will head the
new Dusseldorf outpost.  Latham has approximately 2,000 attorneys in 31 offices in
the U.S., the  Middle East ,  Asia  and  Europe , including in
Hamburg, Frankfurt and Munich.  Bryan Cave Adds Outsourcing Team of Six Lawyers in Atlanta  Bryan Cave LLP added four partners, two additional lawyers
and three administrative support staff to its Atlanta office
from Sutherland Asbill & Brennan LLP.  The new partners -- Scott Hobby, Charles F. Hollis III,
Derek C. Johnston and Sean D. Christy -- focus their practice on
outsourcing.  “The Atlanta market is very important to Bryan Cave and
our clients, and we are committed to continue strategically
growing this office,” Tom McNeill, managing partner of the
firm’s Atlanta office, said in a statement. “Over the past few
years, Bryan Cave has had great success welcoming groups of
attorneys within a particular practice area to join us.”  Hobby is known for his work in the design and operation of
onshore and offshore outsourcing and shared-service
arrangements, the firm said. His practice focuses on customer-side outsourcing transactions.  “The international platform that Bryan Cave has
established will offer our clients access to a broad array of
legal talent across the country and around the globe,” Hobby
said.  Hollis has concentrated his practice on outsourcing matters
for more than 14 years, advising clients on customer-side
outsourcing transactions, including the outsourcing of business
processes, information technology outsourcing, applications
development and maintenance, and human resources outsourcing,
the firm said.  Johnston specializes in customer-side offshore and onshore
outsourcing transactions, software systems acquisition and
implementation transactions, and transition services
arrangements in merger-and-acquisition transactions, the firm
said.  Christy focuses his practice on customer-side offshore and
onshore outsourcing transactions, software systems acquisition
and implementation and telecommunications transactions.  “We hope this change will be good for Scott and the
practice,” Mark Wasserman, Sutherland’s managing partner, said
in an e-mailed statement. “We wish them well personally and
professionally.”  Bryan Cave has more than 1,100 lawyers and other
professionals in over 30 offices in the U.S., the U.K., Europe
and Asia.  Alston Adds Five Capital Markets Partners from Dentons  Five Dentons partners are joining  Alston & Bird LLP ’s
capital markets practice in  New York  and  Washington . Richard
Simonds, Scott Samlin, A. James Cotins and Matthew Lyons are
joining the firm in New York, Stephen Ornstein in Washington.  “This is a significant strategic move for our capital
markets practice and demonstrates Alston’s ongoing commitment to
the continued growth of our corporate and finance practices,”
Alston & Bird managing partner Richard Hays said in a statement.
“These new partners will add depth and breadth to the finance
practices we are building in New York and add new capabilities
to our financial services regulatory practice in Washington.”  Simonds focuses his practice on the representation of
issuers and underwriters in mortgage- and asset-backed
securitizations.  Ornstein has experience with federal and state regulation
of real estate, as well as residential and commercial mortgage
finance. He counsels national mortgage companies, mortgage
insurers, financial institutions and others in complying with
mortgage and consumer lending regulations.  Samlin works with Ornstein in counseling national mortgage
companies, mortgage insurers and other financial institutions
regarding compliance issues. He’s the former  executive director 
for the residential mortgage and lending compliance business at
Morgan Stanley.  Cotins specializes in structured finance. Lyons works with
Cotins in representing the main participants in CMBS, CRE CLOs
and other commercial real estate-related financing transactions.  Dentons didn’t respond to an e-mail request for comment on
the departures.  Alston & Bird has more than 800 attorneys at offices at 10
offices in the U.S and Brussels.  News  Top Environmental Crimes Attorney Leaving Justice Department  Assistant U.S. Attorney General Ignacia Moreno, who led the
 Justice Department ’s prosecution of environmental crimes, will
leave government June 7, the agency said in a statement.  Attorney General Eric Holder praised the results the
department’s Environment and Natural resources Division achieved
on Moreno’s watch, including obtaining “record-setting” for
the 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill and negotiating settlements
with  Indian tribes  to resolve disputes over the management of
trust resources.  Moreno, confirmed by Senate in November 2009, oversaw a
record $1 billion civil penalty from  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  for the
Deepwater Horizon disaster. The U.S. agreed to pay $1.7 billion
to resolve 69 tribes’ allegations of the government’s
mismanagement of trust funds and trust resources, according to
the government statement.  Wyn Hornbuckle, a Justice Department spokesman, said in an
e-mail that Moreno hasn’t decided on her next job. She “will be
exploring a variety of opportunities over the summer,” he said.  Moreno worked for Hogan & Hartson (predecessor to Hogan
Lovells LLP) and Spriggs & Hollingsworth after getting her law
degree at  New York University  in 1990. She joined General
Electric Co. in 2006, where she was counsel, corporate
environmental programs until her confirmation as assistant
attorney general.  Litigation  Enron’s Jeff Skilling Poised to Get Decade Off Sentence in Deal  Jeffrey Skilling , the convicted former Enron Corp. chief
executive officer, may get out of prison in as little as four
years if a judge approves a deal with prosecutors that would
allow the payment of more than $40 million to victims of one of
the biggest corporate frauds in U.S. history.  In exchange for cutting as many as 10 years from his 24-year sentence, Skilling will drop his bid for a new trial and
end litigation over his conviction. A jury found that he
spearheaded a fraud of as much as $40 billion that in 2001
destroyed the world’s largest energy trader and caused the
biggest U.S. bankruptcy at the time.  “The proposed agreement will bring certain finality to a
long painful process, although the recommended sentence for Jeff
would still be more than double that of any other Enron
defendant, all of whom have long been out of prison,” his
lawyer,  Daniel Petrocelli  of  O’Melveny & Myers LLP , said in a
phone interview. “Jeff will at least get the chance to get back
a meaningful part of his life.”  Skilling, 59, has served more than six years of his 2006
sentence for fraud, conspiracy and insider trading. A 2011
appellate ruling effectively lopped nine years off his sentence,
according to court records.  With the potential benefit of two years off for good
behavior and another year off for participation in a drug
treatment program, Skilling could be released in 2017 or early
2018, according to his lawyer and the agreement, which was
revealed yesterday in a filing in federal court in Houston.  Skilling will be resentenced June 21 in Houston, where
Enron victims will be given a chance to speak out on the deal,
U.S. District Judge Sim Lake III said in an order issued
yesterday.  After a 16-week trial, a Houston jury convicted Skilling
alongside  Kenneth Lay , Enron’s former chairman, for conspiring
to use off-books partnerships to manipulate the company’s
finances and mislead investors about its true financial
condition. Lay died before he could appeal, and his conviction
was erased.  More than 5,000 jobs and $1 billion in employee retirement
funds were wiped out when Enron plunged into bankruptcy in
December 2001. Investors sued to recover more than $40 billion
in market losses.  Skilling is incarcerated in a federal prison in Englewood,
 Colorado , outside of Denver.  The case is U.S. v. Causey, 04-cr-00025, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  