-- Aviva Avoids Pay Rebellion as CEO Pledges to Boost Returns
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-05-09T15:38:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/aviva-avoids-pay-rebellion-as-ceo-pledges-to-boost-returns-2-.html
Aviva Plc (AV/)  avoided a repeat of last
year’s pay rebellion after Chief Executive Officer  Mark Wilson 
said he understands investors’ “frustration” and pledged to
boost returns to shareholders.  About 88 percent of investors supported pay plans of the
U.K.’s second-biggest insurer, according to a statement
published after Aviva’s annual general meeting in  London  today.
In 2012, 55 percent of shareholders rejected compensation plans,
sparking the resignation of former CEO  Andrew Moss .  “Speaking to some of you a few minutes ago, I know there
is still a sense of impatience,” Wilson said, striding across
the stage at the Barbican Centre in London’s financial district.
“I don’t blame you. If patience is a virtue -- I think Aviva
shareholders are on their way to becoming saints.”  Wilson, 46, who took the job in January, is seeking to
appease investors by selling assets, eliminating jobs and
cutting costs by 400 million pounds ($623 million) this year to
rebuild capital that was depleted by the euro area’s debt
crisis. The New Zealand-born CEO cut the firm’s  dividend  by 44
percent in March as the insurer posted a full-year loss
following a 3.3 billion-pound writedown on the U.S. business it
agreed to sell to  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  in December.  Wilson has since attempted to rebuild relations with
investors by scrapping directors’ bonuses for 2012 and freezing
pay for the firm’s top 400 managers.  ‘Lavish Outcome’  The  shares  fell 0.3 percent to 322.90 pence in London
trading, bringing declines to about 13 percent this year. The
insurer’s  share price  dropped 60 percent during Moss’s tenure as
the firm failed to boost capital reserves while investing in
 Europe  just as the region’s fiscal crisis took hold in 2009.  “We’ve heard you on transparency, on simplicity and on
pay,” said Wilson, whose firm manages 300 billion pounds of
assets. “Above all, we have heard you on performance.”  Aviva faced shareholder criticism for paying former U.K.
CEO Trevor Matthews 470,000 pounds in cash and 2 million pounds
in shares after joining.  “What sort of LTIP produces this lavish outcome?,” said
Philip Meadowcroft, a private shareholder, referring to the
firm’s long-term incentive plan. “It’s absolutely outrageous.
Bonuses ‘‘are for stellar achievement not just for turning up
for work,’’ he said.  Executive Pay  Chairman John McFarlane told shareholders that he agreed
that ‘‘executive pay in general is too high and is going up.’’
There is a ‘‘fundamental problem’’ with pay across British
businesses, he said.  The company needs to attract  top executives  from across the
world and is required to pay global rates, the chairman said.
Wilson is not the best paid in the industry and could ‘‘get more
than we pay him elsewhere,’’ McFarlane added.  Aviva currently converts about half of its profit into
cash, which is used to pay  dividends  and reinvest in the
business, according to Wilson. The company aims to increase that
ratio to between 85 percent and 90 percent by reducing leverage,
cutting costs and selling products that require less capital to
be held in reserve, he said.  The company’s capital levels were ‘‘inadequate’’ before
last year’s asset disposals and the previous dividend level was
unsustainable, McFarlane said at the meeting.  Wilson pledged to increase  cash flow  from developed markets
such as the U.K.,  Canada  and  France  by cutting costs and making
sure more is paid up to the parent firm to be distributed to
shareholders as dividends. The firm will also focus on  emerging
markets  such as Poland, Turkey and  China .  ‘‘The first part of our plan is a relentless focus on
improving cash flow,’’ Wilson. ‘‘I see strong potential for
growth in emerging markets where we have a competitive advantage
and the ability to get scale quickly.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 