-- Taxable Bond Sales Double With Penalty at 1994 Low: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-05-09T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/taxable-bond-sales-double-with-penalty-at-1994-low-muni-credit.html
Localities from Florida to  California 
are selling taxable bonds at the fastest pace in three years as
the additional cost of issuing the debt instead of tax-free
financing is near the lowest since 1994.  Issuers in the $3.7 trillion municipal market have  sold 
about $16 billion of taxable debt this year through May 3, more
than double the tally of $7.5 billion a year earlier, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. It’s the fastest start since 2010
for the securities, which give municipalities more leeway in how
they use proceeds. This week’s biggest local-debt sale is a
taxable offer from  Illinois .  The jump in sales hasn’t derailed a rally in the
securities, which have gained 2.5 percent this year, beating the
1.5 percent earned by tax-free munis and 1.4 percent for company
debt, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show. The  extra yield 
states and cities pay to sell 10-year AAA taxable bonds rather
than those exempt from levies is 0.47 percentage point, close to
a 19-year low set in March.  “Our strong preference is always to use tax-exempt debt
because it’s a lower cost,” John Sinsheimer, Illinois’s
director of  capital markets , said in an interview from  Chicago .
“However, the penalty for using taxable debt in this market is
not that severe.”  IRS Standards  Illinois, the lowest-rated U.S. state, is set today to
issue $300 million of taxable bonds backed by sales-tax revenue.
The debt is rated AAA by  Standard & Poor’s , six steps higher
than Illinois’s general-obligation grade.  Local governments sell taxable bonds when the issues don’t
meet Internal Revenue Service standards for tax-exemption, such
as for pension funding because the money is invested to make a
profit. Nonprofits such as universities and hospitals are among
the most-frequent borrowers, said Mikhail Foux, a municipal
strategist at Citigroup Inc.  Taxable munis represent about 13 percent of the $119
billion states and cities have sold this year, Bloomberg data
show. That’s up from 6.4 percent for the same period in 2012.  The year’s biggest taxable deal was a $2 billion offer from
 Florida  Hurricane Catastrophe Fund Finance Corp., a state-run
nonprofit that sells protection to insurers. States including
California, Illinois and  Michigan  have also issued taxable
general obligations, Bloomberg data show.  ‘Good Appetite’  “There’s pretty good appetite for taxable municipals, and
we’ve seen evidence of that in the larger issues,” said Peter Coffin, president of Breckinridge Capital Advisors in  Boston .
The firm oversees about $18 billion of local bonds, of which
$500 million is taxable.  Taxable munis have benefitted from higher yields relative
to fixed-income assets such as Treasuries and corporate bonds,
Coffin said.  Top-rated taxable local debt maturing in 30 years yields
about  3.94 percent , Bloomberg data show. That compares with 3.79
percent on similar-maturity AAA corporates, according to Moody’s
Investors Service data. Treasuries due in 2043 yield  2.99
percent. (USGG30YR)   With so-called crossover buyers from other debt markets
snapping up the wave of taxable muni issuance, the  yield spread 
on local debt over company securities has narrowed to about 0.15
percentage point, close to the lowest since 2008 and down from a
high of 2.57 percentage points in September 2011, Bloomberg data
show. The yield gap on taxable munis over Treasuries  touched  
the lowest since 2007 this year.  Risk-Reward  “A lot of high-grade investors recognize that they can get
more yield with very little additional risk with municipals,”
Coffin said.  Five Moody’s-rated municipal issuers defaulted in 2012,
according to a report this week from the New York-based company.
By comparison, 15 U.S. corporations graded by Moody’s defaulted
through the first four months of 2013.  IRS guidelines prohibit municipalities from selling tax-exempt securities if they meet the agency’s criteria of a
“private activity bond” or “arbitrage bond.” A city can’t
issue tax-free debt if more than 10 percent of proceeds will go
toward private business and if more than 10 percent of principal
or interest payments are secured by private property. Bonds can
lose their tax-exemption if the terms are violated.  Capital Debate  The century-old exemption on interest from municipal debt
is being debated in  Washington  as politicians consider ways to
generate revenue and curb the federal deficit. President  Barack Obama ’s fiscal 2014 budget released last month proposed limiting
the benefit.  With restrictions on tax-exempt proceeds, issuers such as
universities and hospitals are turning to taxable munis for more
flexibility, Coffin said. Florida’s hurricane fund borrowed in
April to boost its cash balance, and used taxable debt because
of IRS rules, said  Jack Nicholson , its chief operating officer
in Tallahassee.  The constraints also extend to states that are looking to
boost investment and development after the 18-month recession
that ended in June 2009.  “There are timing, purpose, and administrative issues
which can make it difficult to issue the bonds tax-exempt,”
 Terry Stanton , spokesman for Michigan Treasurer Andy Dillon,
said in an e-mail about the state’s $200 million taxable school
bond sale last month. “Additionally, in the current market, the
rate differential is negligible.”  Yield Advantage  Tax-free local bonds have yielded more than their federal
counterparts for 36 of the past 40 trading sessions, Bloomberg
data show. A  muni-Treasury ratio  above 100 percent compares with
an average of 92 percent since January 2001.  A higher ratio means tax-exempt debt is relatively cheaper
for investors and more expensive for issuers to sell, which has
helped propel taxable municipal issuance among localities,
Citigroup’s Foux said.  At  1.78 percent , yields on benchmark 10-year munis compare
with  1.77 percent  for like-maturity Treasuries. The ratio of the
two yields is about 101 percent, meaning local debt is trailing
federal securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  