-- Baseball Says Umpires’ Error on Home-Run Call Won’t Change Score
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-05-09T18:20:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/baseball-says-umpires-error-on-home-run-call-won-t-change-score.html
An “improper call” by umpires
disallowing a game-tying home run by the  Oakland Athletics 
against the  Cleveland Indians  won’t wipe out the Indians’
victory,  Major League Baseball  said.  The umpiring crew determined video-replay evidence wasn’t
convincing enough to overturn the on-field ruling of a double, a
mistake that negated a home run by Oakland’s Adam Rosales with
two outs in the top of the ninth inning of the Athletics’ 4-3
loss at  Cleveland  last night.  Because it was a judgment call by the umpires, the decision
is final, as is the result of the game, MLB Vice President for
Baseball Operations  Joe Torre  said in a statement today.  “We recognize that an improper call was made,” Torre
said. “Perfection is an impossible standard in any endeavor,
but our goal is always to get the calls right. Earlier this
morning, we began the process of speaking with the crew to
thoroughly review all the circumstances surrounding last night’s
decision.”  With the A’s trailing 4-3, Rosales hit a ball off Indians
reliever Chris Perez that hit a metal railing several feet above
the left-field fence and ricocheted onto the field. Second-base
umpire Angel Hernandez ruled it a double that hit below the
yellow boundary line atop the wall, and the three other umpires
concurred with Hernandez’s call after leaving the field to
review video replay.  “By rule, the decision to reverse a call by use of instant
replay is at the sole discretion of the crew chief,” Torre
said. “In the opinion of Angel Hernandez, who was last night’s
crew chief, there was not clear and convincing evidence to
overturn the decision on the field. It was a judgment call, and
as such, it stands as final.”  Melvin Ejected  When the umpires returned and told Rosales to remain at
second base, Athletics manager  Bob Melvin  raced onto the field
to argue the call and was ejected from the game by Hernandez.
Melvin said he was told by the umpires that the replay was
inconclusive, though video from the telecast showed the ball
cleared the 19-foot outfield fence.  “The only four people in the ballpark that could say
that’s inconclusive,” Melvin told reporters after the game. “I
don’t know what the explanation would be when everyone else in
the ballpark knew it was a home run. I looked at it later,
clearly it hit the railing behind. I’m at a complete loss.”  Torre said home and away broadcast feeds are available for
all instant replays. Both were available to the crew at last
night’s game, he said.  Perez hit a batter and issued a walk to load the bases
before retiring Seth Smith for the final out, dropping the A’s
to 18-17 on the season.  ‘It’s Tough’  “We know how important it is every game,” said Rosales,
who last season was part of an Oakland team that won its last
six games to capture the American League West division title by
one game over  Texas . “We found that out last year, with how
important every game is. It’s tough.”  The ruling helped Cleveland win its third straight game and
improve to 17-14.  “Luckily, the call came in our favor,” Perez was quoted
as saying by MLB.com. “I don’t think I’ve ever been on the
other side of a replay like that, but I’ve definitely been on
the other side of bad calls and missed strikes and stuff like
that. It’s part of the game. We’ll definitely take it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  