-- BCE Profit Beats Estimates as Smartphone Data Spending Grows
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-05-09T13:55:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/bce-profit-beats-estimates-helped-by-smartphone-data-spending.html
BCE Inc. (BCE) ,  Canada ’s second-largest
wireless carrier, reported first-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates as customers spent more to surf the Web and
watch videos on their smartphones.  Excluding severance, acquisition costs and some other
expenses,  earnings  were 77 Canadian cents (77 cents) a share,
the Montreal-based company said today. Analysts predicted 71
cents a share on average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales gained 0.2 percent to C$4.92 billion, compared
with the C$4.95 billion estimate.  Chief Executive Officer George Cope is using  recent
acquisitions  to make more sports, news and drama programming
available on mobile devices, aiming to lure new subscribers and
increase the amount he can charge existing customers. BCE is
trying to narrow the gap with wireless leader  Rogers
Communications Inc. (RCI/B) , which gained 32,000 contract subscribers
last quarter. BCE added 59,497, compared with the 55,000
predicted by analysts.  “Our wireless momentum continues in the marketplace,”
Cope told analysts on a conference call. The subscriber
additions were “very strong,” especially because the first
quarter is typically the weakest of the four, he said.  BCE shares were little changed in Toronto after the report,
trading at C$47.82 as of 9:51 a.m. Before today, the  stock  had
climbed 12 percent this year, as the S&P/Toronto Stock Exchange
Composite Index gained 1.2 percent.  Wireless Margins  Average revenue per customer at Bell Wireless, BCE’s
mobile-phone business, rose 3.9 percent to C$55.92 a month. That
helped drive up Bell’s margins, excluding some items, to 37.7
percent from 37.1 percent a year earlier.  “This margin improvement has been a long time coming as
Bell has historically lagged its peers” on that front, said
 Maher Yaghi , an analyst at Desjardins Securities in  Montreal  who
rates BCE a buy. “We continue to like the company’s prospects
given the trends in wireless.”  Telus Corp. (T) , Canada’s third-largest wireless operator,
reported profit of 56 cents a share today, beating the average
analyst estimate of 54 cents. Sales rose 4.8 percent to C$2.76
billion as the Vancouver-based company capitalized on faster
economic growth in western Canada. Analysts had projected C$2.78
billion.  Telus Customers  Telus added 59,000 wireless subscribers on contract last
quarter, topping the 54,000 predicted by analysts. Telus also
increased its quarterly dividend by 12 percent from a year
earlier to 34 cents a share.  Telus shares  rose 1.9 percent to C$37.40, adding to a 13
percent year-to-date gain.  BCE’s Cope spoke this week at hearings in Montreal to try
to persuade Canada’s main media regulatory agency to approve its
C$3 billion purchase of  Astral Media Inc. (ACM/A)  The Canadian Radio-television Telecommunications Commission rejected the deal in
October, saying it would concentrate too much power in BCE’s
hands and curb competition.  The company, which already owns broadcaster CTV, submitted
an amended takeover plan in November. Canada’s antitrust agency
has already approved the deal. BCE said today it’s targeting an
early summer closing of the Astral deal, pending CRTC approval.  BCE’s first-quarter  net income  rose 6.6 percent to C$566
million, or 73 cents a share, from C$531 million, or 69 cents, a
year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  