-- Berkshire Sells Debt to Buyers Buffett Pities: Corporate Finance
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-05-09T16:19:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/berkshire-sells-debt-to-buyers-buffett-pities-corporate-finance.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc.’s $1 billion
note sale shows that while Chief Executive Officer  Warren Buffett  may pity investors who’ve stuck with bonds as yields
fall to record lows, he’ll sell them as much debt as they want.  The company’s Berkshire Hathaway Finance Corp. sold five-and 30-year securities offering the company’s lowest coupons for
those maturities ever. Berkshire, whose holdings span insurance,
railroads, newspapers and manufacturing, has reduced its bond
investments to $28.6 billion from $34.1 billion in the last
three years, regulatory  filings  show.  Berkshire isn’t buying corporate bonds, Buffett, 82, said
during a May 4 interview with Bloomberg Television’s  Betty Liu 
after the company’s annual meeting in Omaha,  Nebraska . With the
average yield on U.S. corporate debt having fallen to a record
low 3.35 percent this month from more than 11 percent in 2008,
the second-richest American said at the meeting he has empathy
for savers who depend on bond interest.  “Buffett’s views on current  interest rates  are pretty
clear,” said Richard Cook, co-founder of Cook & Bynum Capital
Management LLC in Birmingham,  Alabama , which oversees about $270
million including Berkshire shares. “Berkshire issuing debt is
effectively an efficient way to short the bond market.”  New Bonds  Berkshire Hathaway Finance’s offering yesterday consisted
of $500 million each of five-year, 1.3 percent notes with a
yield that’s 57 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries, and 4.3 percent, 30-year bonds at a 135 basis-point
spread. Berkshire Hathaway Finance holds loans to Clayton Homes
Inc., a Berkshire unit that manufactures housing.  The 2043 debt, issued at 99.18 cents on the dollar, traded
at 99.9 cents to yield 4.31 percent at 12:01 p.m., according to
data from Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Proceeds will be used to redeem $1 billion of 4.6 percent
notes maturing on May 15, according to a regulatory filing. The
company last offered debt in January, in a four-part deal that
included $1 billion of 30-year notes, also to finance maturing
securities.  “I feel sorry for people that have clung to fixed-dollar
investments” Buffett said at the annual meeting. “The problem
faced by people who have stayed in cash or cash equivalents or
short-term Treasuries, it is brutal.”  Buffett didn’t respond to a request for comment on the bond
sale sent to Carrie Sova, an assistant.  “When we borrow money, we’re thinking in terms of long
maturities,” Buffett said in a Fox Business Network television
 interview  on May 6. “Anybody who’s borrowing money now should
borrow out for a long period of time.”  Lengthening Maturities  In its three debt offerings since May 2012,  Berkshire (BRK/A)  sold
a combined $3.5 billion of debt due in 10 years or later, about
54 percent of the total, Bloomberg data show. In the three
offerings prior to that, maturities of 10 years accounted for 36
percent.  Berkshire has been shrinking the size and duration of its
own fixed-income portfolio, regulatory filings show. The company
held $10.1 billion of corporate debt on March 31, down 24
percent from the first quarter of 2010.  The amount of fixed-income investments excluding mortgage-backed debt due in one year or less has grown to 25 percent of
the portfolio, up from 18 percent in March 2010, filings show.
Securities due in five through 10 years declined six percentage
points to 17 percent.  Preferred Stocks  Buffett has shown a preference for obtaining yield by
providing financing to other companies with preferred stock at
higher interest rates than available in the corporate  bond
market . During the financial crisis in 2008, he bought $5
billion of preferreds from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and $3
billion from General Electric Co. with 10 percent yields. The
companies have since redeemed those securities.  The following year, Berkshire purchased $3 billion of 8.5
percent convertible preferred stock from Dow Chemical Co. to
help it pay for its acquisition of Rohm & Haas Co., and in 2011
it bought $5 billion of 6 percent securities from Bank of
America Corp. This year, Berkshire was part of a group that
struck a deal to acquire HJ Heinz Co. in a transaction that
includes an $8 billion preferred stake for Buffett with a 9
percent yield, and last month he agreed to refinance $94 million
of debt at newspaper publisher Lee Enterprises for 9 percent.  ‘Good Time’  The  Federal Reserve  has kept interest rates near zero since
December 2008 to bolster the economy, pushing spreads on U.S.
corporate debt to record lows. The extra yield investors demand
to hold investment-grade bonds instead of Treasuries has
tightened to a five-year low of 143 basis points this month from
as high as 656 basis points in December 2008, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data show. Over that period, investment-grade
yields have fallen to a record low 2.65 percent from 8.59
percent, the data show.  A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  “It continues to be a good time to issue debt, whether
you’re talking about absolute yield or relative spread levels,”
 Thomas Chow , a Philadelphia-based  money manager  at Delaware
Investments who helps oversee about $135 billion, said in a
telephone interview. Berkshire is “a high-cachet name,”
creating demand for its securities, he said.  Bonds from Berkshire are the worst performers in the Bank
of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Property & Casualty Insurance
index this year through yesterday, rising an average 0.9
percent, compared to the 3.4 percent index gain.  Berkshire Acquisition  “They tend to trade a little bit cheaper because of the
company makeup,  but I don’t think it’s anything specific to
Berkshire as a business,” Matthew Duch, a  fund manager  at
Calvert Investments Inc. in Bethesda,  Maryland , which oversees
more than $12 billion in assets including Berkshire debt, said
in a telephone interview. “Berkshire tends to be a name that
people are either in need of have too much of.”  In line with Buffett’s advice to stick with equities,
Berkshire’s Class A shares have returned  24 percent  this year.
The shares, unsplit since Buffett bought the company in 1965,
slipped 0.2 percent to $166,000 today.  Buffett began buying shares in Berkshire Hathaway, then a
textiles business, in 1962 after studying under  Benjamin Graham ,
a Columbia University professor who co-authored the value-investing guide “The Intelligent Investor.”  Berkshire owns a stable of insurance companies including
Geico and  General Re , and companies ranging from MidAmerican
Energy to chemicals maker Lubrizol to the Burlington Northern
 Santa Fe  railroad. It also has minority stakes in companies that
include International Business Machines Corp. and Coca-Cola Co.  The parent company and its finance arm are  rated  Aa2 by
Moody’s Investors Service, the third-highest grade.  “The argument is that with yields on high-quality debt as
low as they are, the compensation you’re receiving for taking
risk has declined,” Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, said in a telephone
interview. “Still, there are natural buyers of long-term debt
who aren’t swayed by the relative value between credit and
equity. And because there’s little long-term debt sold, what is
issued is gobbled up quickly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in  New York  at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  