-- Billabong Suspends Share Trade Amid Talks With Takeover Bidders
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-05-09T00:18:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/billabong-suspends-share-trade-amid-talks-with-takeover-bidders.html
Billabong International Ltd. (BBG) , the
Australian surfwear company that’s breached debt payment terms,
suspended its shares to pursue takeover talks after an
exclusivity period with one potential bidder lapsed.  Billabong needed trading to be on hold to “progress
discussions with interested parties”, the  Gold Coast ,
Australia-based company said in a regulatory statement.
Exclusivity over a provisional A$287 million ($292 million) bid
from Sycamore Partners Management ended yesterday and Billabong
had also been in talks with Altamont Capital Partners.  Shareholders who’ve seen the  stock  fall as low as 45.5
Australian cents may need to fund a further capital raising in
the absence of a bid, according to Credit Suisse Group AG, UBS
AG and  Commonwealth Bank of Australia. (CBA)  Billabong, which has
reported  declines in sales  for four consecutive semi-annual
periods, said in February the company will post 80 percent of
its assets and 85 percent of its earnings as security to its
lenders after writedowns put it in breach of terms on its debt.  “The number of companies undertaking due diligence and in
turn passing or putting forward materially lower bids suggests
to us other underlying issues could be present.” Ben Gilbert,
an analyst at UBS in Sydney, wrote in a note to clients April 9.
There’s “significant downside risk to the share price should a
bid not proceed,” he said.  Sycamore Group  The Sycamore group, which also includes Billabong’s
Americas director Paul Naude, put in a provisional bid of A$1.10
a share Dec. 19. The group was looking for a price below a 60
cents a share revised offer made April 9, the Australian
Financial Review newspaper reported on its website yesterday,
without saying where it had got the information.  Christina Stenson, a spokeswoman for Altamont at Brunswick
Group LLP, declined to comment on the private equity firm’s
plans earlier today. Altamont had studied a bid with a
provisional price of A$1.10 and wasn’t admitted into the
exclusive talks last month.  Billabong’s market value has declined 67 percent since Feb.
17, 2012, when the company reported that TPG Capital had
approached it with a takeover offer. Since that date, Billabong
has already turned down three private equity bids and had
suitors walk away twice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  