-- Bombardier Keeps First-Flight Goal as CSeries Aces Tests
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-05-09T13:39:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/bombardier-first-quarter-profit-meets-estimates-as-revenue-rises.html
Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  stuck to its goal of
first takeoff for the CSeries in June after the delayed jetliner
performed well on flight-safety tests that included bending the
wings to gauge structural integrity.  The planemaker said in a first-quarter earnings report
today that it has begun a “critical” series of tests on the
fly-by-wire cockpit control system. The CSeries previously
responded “as expected” on evaluations of areas crucial to a
flight-safety permit, including static airframe testing and on-the-ground checks, Bombardier said in a  filing .  Chief Executive Pierre Beaudoin’s confidence at such a late
stage in the testing is “a good sign,” said  Cameron Doerksen ,
an analyst at National Bank Financial in  Montreal . It may help
dispel investor pessimism after a six-month postponement in
November coupled with the struggles by larger rivals Airbus SAS
and Boeing Co. in developing brand new planes.  Bombardier had a CSeries backlog of 145 firm orders as of
March 31, the Montreal-based company said as it reported first-quarter profit in line with analysts’ estimates. Bombardier is
targeting 300 firm orders by the time the plane enters
commercial service in mid-2014 and expects the aircraft to help
almost double annual revenue in the next decade.  Bombardier’s reaffirmation of the June goal for first
flight “is the key near-term catalyst,”  Walter Spracklin , an
analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in Toronto. “This will continue
to help to lift sentiment, particularly if it is matched with
new orders going into the  Paris Air Show  next month.”  Order Cancellation  Bombardier’s Class B shares rose 3.1 percent to C$4.36 at
9:35 a.m. in Toronto. The stock previously  gained  about 13
percent this year, beating the 1.2 percent gain of the Standard
& Poor’s/TSX Composite Index.  The CSeries will be Bombardier’s biggest-ever plane and has
a total development cost of about $3.4 billion. The aircraft,
which will feature the new geared turbofan engine from  United
Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s  Pratt & Whitney , will be about four times
quieter than existing jets and cost about 15 percent less to
operate, the company has said.  The backlog reflects the termination of an order for three
CSeries jets from an undisclosed buyer “due to financial
difficulties of the customer,” Bombardier said. The customer
also had options for three more planes.  The delay in first flight, announced in November, followed
unspecified issues with suppliers and mirrored challenges
encountered by Airbus and Boeing. The Chicago-based planemaker
delivered its 787 Dreamliner more than three years behind
schedule, then grappled with a three-month grounding by
regulators because of overheating batteries.  Airbus, Boeing  Airbus’s A380 jumbo jet was almost three years late in
initial deliveries, while its A350-900 model is already 18
months behind schedule.  “Many investors and customers remain skeptical given one
previous delay and the broader sector’s development fumbles in
recent years,”  Steve Hansen , an analyst at Raymond James Ltd.
in  Vancouver , said May 6 in a note to clients. He rates the
shares outperform, as do National Bank’s Doerksen and RBC
Capital’s Spracklin.  Excluding some costs and gains, profit in the three months
through March rose to $156 million from $150 million a year
earlier, Bombardier said. That’s in line with the  average
estimate  in a Bloomberg survey of 20 analysts. Revenue soared 25
percent to $4.34 billion, beating the average estimate of $4.16
billion.  Earnings Estimates  Bombardier delivered 53 planes in the first quarter, 43
percent more than in the same period a year ago. The total
includes 39 business jets, up from 29.  Bombardier reiterated a February target for aircraft
deliveries in 2013 to increase to 245 from 233 last year. The
full-year goal includes 190  business jets  and 55 regional
planes.  Earnings before interest and taxes for the aerospace unit
amounted to 4.5 percent of revenue in the quarter, compared with
6.7 percent for the aerospace division. On the same basis and
excluding one-time items, aerospace profit will climb to 6
percent of revenue by 2014, while the train business’s margin
will reach 8 percent, Bombardier said today.  Bombardier’s backlog of orders fell to $63 billion at the
end of March from $64.9 billion three months earlier, the
company said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  