-- Boston Bombing Suspect’s Body Buried at Undisclosed Site
-- B y   A n n i e   L i n s k e y
-- 2013-05-09T14:33:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/boston-bombing-suspect-s-body-buried-at-undisclosed-site.html
Boston  Marathon bombing suspect
Tamerlan Tsarnaev’s body has been buried, according to
Worcester, Massachusetts, police who didn’t disclose the
location.  “As a result of our public appeal for help, a courageous
and compassionate individual came forward to provide the
assistance needed to properly bury the deceased,” said an
announcement on the police department’s website. “His body is
no longer in the City of Worcester and is now entombed.”  Tsarnaev’s body had been at a Worcester funeral parlor as
protesters held signs and chanted against interment in that
city. Cemeteries and towns across the U.S. said they didn’t want
it, including Boston and neighboring Cambridge, where Tsarnaev
lived before the deadly attack.  Worcester police chief Gary J. Gemme yesterday made a
public appeal for a resolution.  “We are not barbarians,” he told reporters gathered
outside the Graham Putnam & Mahoney Funeral Parlors office, in a
Victorian-style house off of Main Street. “We bury the dead.”  Tsarnaev, 26, died in a firefight with police April 19,
following a massive manhunt after the highest-profile terror
attack on U.S. soil since Sept. 11, 2001. Tsarnaev’s 19-year-old
brother Dzhokhar fled, leading to a lockdown of the 10th-largest
U.S. metropolitan area and his capture later that day. Their
attempt to escape the Boston area left one university police
officer shot dead and a transit patrolman wounded.  Brother Imprisoned  Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, found hiding in a boat stored in the
backyard of a home in Watertown, across the Charles River from
Boston, faces federal charges, including using a weapon of mass
destruction, and may receive a death sentence if convicted. He’s
being held at a federal prison hospital outside Boston.  The twin bombs -- pressure cookers loaded with explosives,
nails, metal shards and BBs -- exploded April 15 near the finish
line of the marathon, killing three spectators and injuring more
than 260, according to prosecutors and court documents. Many
survivors lost limbs.  The older brother was declared dead in a Boston hospital
April 19 and his body was released May 2 by the Massachusetts
medical examiner’s office. The corpse wound up in Worcester as
members of the family sought a resting place for the remains.  Islamic tradition calls for the deceased to be washed,
shrouded and prayed over before the body is buried, according to
Kecia Ali, who teaches religion at Boston University. The corpse
should be buried on its right side with the head toward Mecca,
Muslim holy city in eastern Saudi Arabia, Ali said.  Muslims hold different beliefs about marking the grave, in
some places elaborate markers are used and in others, graves are
left unmarked, Ali said.  No Cremation  Cremation isn’t an option, partly because of a belief in
resurrection, she said. Also, she said, it isn’t considered a
respectful way to treat a body.  “The idea that is most often expressed is that it is
contrary to dignity,” she said. “That it is not an honorable
way of treating the body.”  Tsarnaev’s uncle, Ruslan Tsarni, drove to Worcester from
his Maryland home and has been at the funeral parlor trying find
a place for burial. He has taken responsibility for the body,
according to Sergeant Kerry Hazelhurst, a Worcester police
spokesman. Tsarni went in and out of the funeral home several
times on May 8 and declined to talk with reporters.  Chief Gemme said May 8 that a tentative deal to bury the
body at on the grounds of a prison “evaporated” May 7.  “A number of attempts to contact state officials on
Tuesday for explanation went unanswered and no telephone calls
were returned,” Gemme said. “We are publicly appealing to
those with authority to provide a burial site: Do so, and do so
quickly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annie Linskey in Boston at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  