-- Boston’s First Race After Marathon Bombings Is 13-Hour Sellout
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-05-09T13:56:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/boston-s-first-race-after-marathon-bombings-is-13-hour-sellout.html
The  Boston Athletic Association ’s
first race since last month’s  Boston Marathon bombings  sold out
its 6,500 spots for the first time in just over 13 hours.  The B.A.A. 10K, a 6.2-mile run through  Boston ’s Back Bay
scheduled for June 23, opened online registration at 10 a.m.
local time yesterday. It was closed at 11:15 p.m. when the
maximum field size was reached.  The turnout for the race comes less than a month after the
April 15 bombings close to the downtown Boston finish line of
the B.A.A.’s signature race. Three people were killed and more
than 200 were injured.  “Thank you for all of the support, especially those who
ran on April 15 and are coming back for this event,” race
organizers said on the association’s website. “We are grateful
to the running community and locals who entered the race. Boston
Strong! Boston Stands As One!”  The B.A.A. 10K is scheduled to begin and finish on Charles
Street, with a route that winds past Kenmore Square, the campus
of  Boston University , and the Bull and Finch Pub, after which
the television series “Cheers” was developed.  The 26.2-mile Boston Marathon begins in Hopkinton,
 Massachusetts , and ends at the city’s Copley Square. The 10K
finish line will be less than a mile from where the bombings
occurred.  Geoffrey Mutai of  Kenya , the 2011 Boston Marathon champion,
has won the B.A.A. 10K in each of its first two years. Mutai won
in 27 minutes, 29 seconds a year ago, the world’s fastest 10K
time in 2012.  U.S. authorities said brothers Dzhokhar and Tamerlan
Tsarnaev detonated two homemade bombs near the marathon’s finish
line last month. Tamerlan Tsarnaev died after a shootout with
police. Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, 19, was captured hiding in a boat in
a Watertown, Massachusetts, backyard and charged with two
capital counts, including use of a weapon of mass destruction.
The maximum sentence is death.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  