-- Boston Police Chief Urges Surveillance Increase After Attack
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-05-09T20:29:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/boston-police-chief-urges-surveillance-increase-after-attack-1-.html
Boston Police Commissioner Edward Davis urged Congress to fund more surveillance of public places
after the bomb attack on the Boston Marathon that killed three
people.  Davis, who helped lead the  law enforcement  response to the
April 15 attack, said investigators had to rely “almost
exclusively on the support of our business partners” for the
video surveillance that helped identify the suspected bombers,
Tamerlan and Dzhokhar Tsarnaev. Davis said law enforcement needs
an enhanced ability to monitor public places on its own.  “These efforts are not intended to chill or stifle free
speech, but rather to protect the integrity and freedom of
speech and to protect the rights of victims and suspects
alike,” Davis said in remarks prepared for a House  Homeland
Security  Committee hearing today on the bombing.  In the first congressional hearing on the Boston bombing,
lawmakers in both parties questioned whether there were federal
communication failures before the attack. Davis, during the
question and answer period, said his department was in the dark
about an FBI review of Tamerlan Tsarnaev, the older of the
brothers -- something the FBI pushed back on after the hearing.  Former Senator  Joe Lieberman , an independent who was head
of the Senate’s homeland security panel, said that while it
would have been difficult to stop the attacks, it might have
been possible.  System ‘Failed’  “To put it bluntly, our homeland-defense system failed in
Boston,” Lieberman told the panel. The former Connecticut
senator, who didn’t seek re-election in 2012, was among the
first congressional backers of creating the Department of
Homeland Security after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.  U.S. lawmakers are in the midst of a review of
counterterrorism procedures and laws following the Boston
bombing, which injured more than 260 people near the finish line
of the marathon. The review has homed in on possible
communications failures among federal agencies regarding
Tamerlan Tsarnaev, who was investigated in 2011 by the FBI.  Representative Mike McCaul, a Texas Republican and chairman
of the House panel, said the attack highlighted potential gaps
in the country’s antiterrorism procedures.  The Russian government flagged the activities of Tamerlan
Tsarnaev to the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  and Central
Intelligence Agency in 2011. A three-month FBI probe into
Tsarnaev, who was killed in a shootout with police in April 19,
uncovered no derogatory information, according to the bureau.  No Flags  Six months after the FBI review, Tsarnaev traveled to
 Russia . While the trip registered in a Homeland Security
Department database, it didn’t set off any red flags in the
system, McCaul said.  “What remains unanswered is whether this information was
shared between federal agencies and state and local officials,”
McCaul said.  Davis, under questioning from McCaul, said the Boston
Police officials who served on the Joint Terrorist Task Force
weren’t aware of the FBI’s investigation into the older
Tsarnaev. They also didn’t know of his travels out of the
country, Davis said, adding that it was information he would
have liked to have had.  FBI Comment  Richard DesLauriers, the special agent in charge of the
FBI’s Boston office, said in a statement today that the Boston
Police representatives on the JTTF had access to databases that
“would allow them to be fully informed of all JTTF activity
that may affect Boston.”  DesLauriers said the Boston Police Department
“specifically had representatives” assigned to the squad that
conducted the 2011 assessment of Tsarnaev.  Davis told reporters during a break in the hearing that the
four police department representatives on the joint  task force 
had access to the databases that listed Tsarnaev.  “Their names were in databases and these were databases we
had access to, but nobody indicated that there were high-level
government sources that were moving information back and
forth,” Davis said.  Representative Bennie Thompson of  Mississippi , the top
Democrat on the panel, said during the hearing that Congress
“must develop a way to fix and integrate these various
databases.”  “We cannot ignore that once again, it has taken a tragedy
to reveal problems in our vast, varied and numerous databases,”
Thompson said.  Links Probed  U.S. investigators are continuing to probe how and when the
brothers became motivated to carry out the attack. No evidence
of foreign assistance has been found, according to U.S.
officials, though they continue to investigate any potential
links.  Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, 19, was apprehended on April 19 after a
manhunt that paralyzed the  Boston  metropolitan area. He has been
charged with using and conspiring to use a weapon of mass
destruction.  Tsarnaev, who may face the death penalty for his alleged
actions, told interrogators that he and his brother acted alone
and learned how to build the explosive devices used in the
bombing on the Internet, according to officials briefed on his
responses.  Worcester, Massachusetts, police said today that Tamerlan
Tsarnaev’s body, which was in a funeral parlor there as towns
and cemeteries across the U.S. declined his interment, was
buried in an undisclosed location outside the city.  Davis said that while he didn’t have details of the burial,
he was pleased to hear that it had finally occurred.  “I’m just very happy that we can move on to other
things,” Davis told reporters. “I’d personally like it if we
never had to mention these names again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  