-- Brain Growth May Cause Differences in Identical Twin Mice
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-05-09T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/brain-growth-may-cause-differences-in-identical-twin-mice.html
Identical mice reared together in the
same environment developed differences in brain structure and
behavior as they aged, according to a study that could help
explain why traits of identical human twins can be poles apart.  The mice that interacted most with the environment
generated the most new neurons while adults, the study of 40
rodents found. Scientists monitored the animals’ movements and
brain activity for three months through implanted microchips,
according to the results published today in the journal  Science .  The growth of new neurons occurred mostly in the
 hippocampus , a seahorse-shaped area of the brain that plays
important roles in memory formation and emotional life, the
study led by Julia Freund, a biologist at the Center for
Regenerative Disease Therapies Dresden, found. The findings show
that the malleable brain is shaped by experiences that promote
individual traits even in identical individuals, researchers
said in the study.  “Understanding how adult neurogenesis influences brain
plasticity may teach us, as Freund et al. explain, how living
our lives makes us who we are,” wrote Olaf Bergman and Jonas
Frisen in a related editorial.  The differences between the mice twins increased over time,
the researchers found.  The study also showed that the more complex an environment
is, the more pronounced individual differences are, researchers
said. One group of mice was kept in a boring enclosure. These
mice showed the least amount of growth of new brain cells.  Depression Clues  Knowing more about the growth of new nerves also may help
depression researchers, as limited growth of brain cells have
been linked to the mental disorder. Some scientists have
proposed that the formation of new neurons, called neurogenesis,
may effectively treat depression.  An estimated 9 percent of American adults are  depressed ,
according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention.  It’s not clear how current antidepressants including
selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, or SSRIs, like Eli
Lilly & Co.’s Prozac, work in the brain. SSRIs are designed to
block the reabsorption of the brain chemical serotonin and they
boost the creation of new neurons in the brain.  Previous research attempting to show serotonin is solely
responsible for depression has been unsuccessful. The
alternative theory about the role of neurogenesis developed in
response.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  San Francisco  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  