-- Bratton Says Oakland Lacks Police for Murders, Robberies
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2013-05-09T21:34:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/bratton-says-oakland-lacks-police-for-murders-robberies.html
Oakland,  California ’s police
investigations are ineffective in solving shootings, robberies
and burglaries, and should be decentralized into five
neighborhood districts, former New York City Police Commissioner
William Bratton recommended.  Robbery investigators are slow to respond and interview
victims, while one part-time robbery detective was assigned to
10,000 cases last year, according to  the report  by The Bratton
Group LLC released today.  Oakland hired Bratton, who was also police chief in Boston
and  Los Angeles , as a law-enforcement adviser in January for
$250,000 to boost crime-fighting efforts. The city of about
396,000 has cut its police force by about 25 percent, according
to the report. The Oakland Police Department reported a 22
percent increase in homicides and a 43 percent jump in
burglaries last year, according to  city data .  “The OPD is working to add police officers, but the
current staffing shortfalls make it all the more important that
the department deploys and manages its resources effectively
now,” Bratton’s report said.  The report came a day after Howard Jordan, Oakland’s police
chief, announced his resignation, saying in a statement posted
on the police website that he was taking steps toward medical
retirement after 24 years with the department.  Oakland ranked fifth among U.S. cities in crime in 2011,
behind Flint, Michigan;  Detroit ; Camden, New Jersey; and  St.
Louis , according to the City Crime Rate Rankings based on FBI
data, published by Congressional Quarterly.  Bratton’s report suggests dividing the city into five
districts, with each led by a captain responsible for that
area’s crime problems and “its specific cast of criminal
characters.” It recommends assigning gun assaults and most
robberies for investigation at the district level.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman in New York at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 