-- Brazilian M&A Picks Up as Asians Seek Cheaper Oilfields
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a a s
-- 2013-05-09T09:51:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/brazilian-m-a-picks-up-as-asians-seek-cheaper-oilfields-energy.html
Brazilian energy acquisitions, on a
steady decline after a record $57 billion deals in 2010, are
showing signs of a revival, led by Chinese and Malaysian state-owned buyers seeking lower valuations for offshore oil fields.  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. agreed May 7 to buy
assets in the Campos basin from a company billionaire  Eike Batista  controls. China National Petroleum Corp. is in talks to
acquire Barra Energia Petroleo e Gas, a Brazilian oil startup,
for about $2 billion, people with knowledge of the matter said.  Batista’s  OGX Petroleo (OGXP3)  & Gas Participacoes SA, which
tumbled 54 percent in the past three months on missed financial
and production targets, got $4.50 a barrel in the sale of an
oilfield stake to Petronas, compared with a Campos basin
reference price of $10 to $13, according to Tudor Pickering Holt
& Co. Brazilian oil producers trade at an average of 0.86 times
book value compared with 2.43 a year ago and 6.65 for North
American peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The Latin American market is very cheap right now,
valuations have come in a lot,” said Matthew Portillo, a
director of equity research for exploration and production at
the Houston-based firm. “There was a lot of exuberance and
valuations got expensive and as either disappointment has set in
on some assets or companies have been successful, that’s driving
back interest in the region.  Brazil  is one area of focus.”  Bidding Round  The MSCI Brazil Energy Index, which includes OGX and
Petroleo Brasileiro SA, the country’s state-run producer, has
rallied 16 percent in the past month after slumping 47 percent
in the previous two years. The real has gained against 2.3
percent on the dollar this year after losing 9.1 percent and 11
percent in the past two years.  Excluding a possible $2 billion CNPC deal, the $985 million
in oil and natural gas deals so far in the quarter makes it the
biggest in six quarters, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Petrobras, as the state producer is known, is helping ease
pressure on assets sales as it seeks to sell smaller properties
in Brazil to raise $9.9 billion. Those plans have been slowed as
potential buyers await the government’s first oil auction since
2008. Petrobras, the world’s most indebted publicly-traded oil
company, said it will be “selective” in placing bids in next
week’s so-called Round 11 auction.  Energy Security  China  and Malaysia need to secure energy resources to keep
their economies growing faster than those in  Europe  and the U.S.
China is on course to overtake the U.S. as the world’s top crude
importer by 2014, OPEC said last month. China, the world’s
fastest-growing major economy, is projected to account for half
of all demand growth in the next five years.  “Increasingly the national oil companies, especially Asian
ones with the financial muscle, are making acquisitions in the
name of energy security,” Praveen Kumar, a Singapore-based
consultant at FACTS Global Energy, said by telephone. “Brazil
right now is hot. Companies that have invested there have made
some successful discoveries, so the buzz these days is how they
can bring back that energy into Asia, in the form of LNG or
crude.”  Petrobras announced in 2007 the discovery of the so-called
pre-salt oil reserves, the biggest offshore find in the Americas
since 1976. To help fund development, the state-run producer
held a secondary share offering in September 2010 that raised a
record $70 billion. Investor interest in Brazilian oil led OGX,
 HRT Participacoes em Petroleo SA  and  QGEP Participacoes SA (QGEP3)  to go
public between 2008 and 2011.  Value Variation  Petroliam Nasional Bhd., known as Petronas, will pay $850
million for 40 percent of two blocks in the Tubarao Martelo
field, the company said in an e-mailed statement. That’s lower
than the $1 billion OGX was seeking, according to comments last
month from a person with direct knowledge of the matter. An OGX
press official declined to comment in an e-mailed response to
questions.  Tudor Pickering’s estimate of the Tubarao Martelo sale
price of $4.50 a barrel on a risk-free basis compares with
Deutsche Bank AG’s $11.88 estimate. Credit Suisse AG estimated
that  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp (386) , or Sinopec, paid  Repsol SA (REP) 
$5.90 a barrel of oil equivalent for 40 percent of its Brazilian
assets in 2010. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. estimated at the time
that Sinopec paid $8.70 a barrel. Sinochem’s 2010 purchase of a
stake in Statoil’s Peregrino field in the Campos basin cost
$15.40 a barrel, according to Arctic Securities ASA.  Share Option  The Petronas acquisition marks the company’s first entry
into exploration and production in Brazil and followed a $5.4
billion deal last year to take over Canadian producer Progress
Energy Resources Corp.  Under the agreement, Petronas has the option to acquire a 5
percent stake in OGX from Batista at 6.30 reais a share. This
option can be exercised until April of 2015 and no new shares
would be issued, OGX said in a separate statement.  As more assets come up for sale, offshore Brazil may be a
perfect fit for Asian national oil companies looking out for
more than just the bottom line.  “What really keeps Beijing awake at night is that oil
demand is growing faster than domestic production, so they need
to buy upstream assets globally,” Simon Powell, an oil and gas
analyst at CLSA Ltd. Hong Kong, said. “They also want to
acquire intellectual property, and the Chinese are especially
keen to get any deep water expertise they can.”  Possible Sale  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. is working on a possible sale of
its Brazilian assets and a transaction is possible in 2013,
Chief Financial Officer Bob Gwin said on a May 7 conference call
with analysts and investors. The process is still in the early
stages, he said.  “CNPC and Petronas are both looking at the pre-salt fields
in South America and think it’s interesting, it’s deep water and
they need to be involved,” he said. “At the same time it helps
them hedge against future demand risk at home.”  As the U.S. has benefited from increased oil production due
to new technologies unlocking massive untapped reserves and
little or no demand growth, Asian countries are looking farther
afield to feed their growing economies.  “While U.S. refineries have been busy processing higher
quality grades of crude from the tight-oil boom, companies
producing Brazilian crude can get a better price by bringing the
lower quality grades to Asia,” said Yeo Yu Kin, a director at
IHS Consulting in  Singapore . “Brazilian oil would love to find
a home in Asia.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Haas in Hong Kong at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  