-- Bristol-Myers, Disney, Google: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-05-09T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/bristol-myers-disney-google-intellectual-property.html
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  sued  Roche
Holding AG (ROG) ’s  Genentech  unit seeking a court order that it
doesn’t infringe patents used to make treatments for cancer and
autoimmune diseases.  The patents, known as “Cabilly” after one of the
inventors, are invalid and aren’t infringed by  colon cancer  and
melanoma treatments New York-based Bristol-Myers sells in the
U.S., the company’s attorneys claimed in a complaint filed May 3
in federal court in Oakland, California.  The Cabilly patents, which have been the subject of high-profile legal disputes, were characterized as “a bottleneck”
with respect to antibody-expression technologies by  Ulrich
Storz , a patent counsel with Dusseldorf, Germany’s  Michalski
Hüttermann & Partner .  Writing in the Landes Bioscience Journal mABS,  Storz said 
that U.S. companies using these technologies must either “go
through this bottleneck or face legal action, either as a
claimant (e.g., in an invalidity action or a non-infringement
action) or as a defendant (e.g., in an infringement action).”  Bristol-Myers Squibb said it filed the suit “to lift the
cloud created by the imminent threat of defendant’s enforcement
of the Cabilly patents against the plaintiffs,” according to
the complaint. “Without declaratory relief the threat of
enforcement of the Cabilly patents poses a substantial risk to
the plaintiffs as well as to patients, nurses and doctors now
using Erbitux and Yervoy.”  Erbitux, made by Indianapolis-based  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s
ImClone unit, is approved in the U.S. to treat colon cancer and
head and neck tumors and sold by Bristol-Myers in the U.S.
Yervoy, a melanoma treatment, is manufactured and sold by
Bristol-Myers in the U.S.  “We remain confident in the validity and enforceability of
the Cabilly patents and we believe that the lawsuit is without
merit,” Nadine Pinell, a Genentech spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Eli Lilly filed a similar lawsuit over the Cabilly patents
in March.  The case is Bristol-Myers Squibb v. Genentech, 13-cv-02045,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Disney Withdraws ‘Dia de los Muertos’ Trademark Application  The  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  withdrew the applications it filed with
the U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office  to register “Dia de los
Muertos” as a trademark, the  Los Angeles Times reported .  The Burbank, California-based company said the filings were
aimed at protecting a forthcoming film about the Mexican
religious holiday known as Day of the Dead, the newspaper
reported.  The studio told the Times it was changing the name of the
film and therefore didn’t need the trademark protection.  A petition opposing the registration was put on the
Change.org website May 7 and by yesterday morning, it had more
than 19,000 signatures, according to the newspaper.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Google Asks Appeals Court to Reject Class-Action Authors Suit  Google Inc. (GOOG)  asked an appeals court to reject class-action
status for a $3 billion lawsuit by authors claiming that its
project to digitize millions of books from libraries violates
their copyrights.  Lawyers for Google and three writers who sued, including
Jim Bouton, the author of “Ball Four,” argued their case
yesterday before a three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of
Appeals in Manhattan.  Google seeks reversal of a lower-court order granting
class-action certification. The judges said they would make
their ruling later.  “Plaintiffs cannot claim to represent the many class
members who benefit from and approve of  Google Books ,”  Seth
Waxman , a lawyer for  Mountain View , California-based Google,
told the judges.  The  Authors Guild , which represents writers, and individual
authors sued Google in 2005, charging that the Internet search
engine operator was digitizing books from libraries without
seeking permission from copyright owners or paying fees.  Judge  Denny Chin  rejected a negotiated settlement by the
parties in 2011. Attempts to renegotiate the deal failed, and
the litigation resumed.  Chin granted class certification last year to all authors
residing in the U.S. who have at least one book in Google’s
project.  A class-action suit makes it possible for all those who
meet the criteria to sue together rather than separately,
increasing the chances of a settlement.  “Let’s get it adjudicated on a class basis, not piecemeal,
book by book,” Robert LaRocca, a lawyer for the authors, told
the judges.  Google said in court papers it has digitally scanned more
than 20 million books worldwide and that Internet searchers
would be able to view “snippets” of each book online.  The case is Authors Guild v. Google, 12-3200,  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  Defcad Offers Rights-Free Plans for 3-D Printed Plastic Weapons  Defcad , the website operated in conjunction with the
“Liberator” gun made using 3-D printing technology, now offers
downloadable plans for a wide range of weapons to be made the
same way. The Liberator, which is made solely from 3-D printed
plastic and a household nail,  has been successfully fired .  Cody R. Wilson , a law student at the  University of Texas ,
is behind Defcad. Wilson’s Austin, Texas-based  Defense
Distribution  says it is the home of a project “to create freely
available plans for 3-D printable guns.”  The website includes
poet John Milton’s “ Areopagita ,” published in 1644 in
opposition to the licensing of books and censorship.  According to the website, Defcad is aimed at being a search
engine for 3D printing. Among the downloadable plans it offers
are silencers, ammunition, basic and Russian grenades, and high-capacity ammunition magazines.  The site hosts firearms-related files and makes them
available because “when we say freedom of information, we mean
it.” No uploaded files will be censored unless they contain
“malicious software” according to the Defcad site.  Judge Accused Porno-Infringement Lawyers of ‘Moral Turpitude’  A federal judge hearing a copyright case involving alleged
unauthorized downloading of adult films said four of the lawyers
involved in a series of related cases “suffer from moral
turpitude unbecoming an officer of the court.”  In a May 6 order, U.S. District Judge Otis D. Wright II
said that John Steele and Paul Hansmeier of Chicago’s Steele
Hansmeier PLLC; and Paul Duffy and Brent Gibbs of Mill Valley,
California’s Prenda Law Inc. committed “brazen misconduct” and
“relentless fraud” in their pursuit of alleged infringers.  Wright outlined what he said was the four lawyers’ strategy
of accusing individuals of illegally downloading a single
pornographic video, then settling for a cost “calculated to be
just below the cost of a bare-bones defense.”  For the individuals accused of infringement, Wright said
“resistance is futile. Most reluctantly pay rather than have
their names associated with illegally downloading porn.”  As a result, “copyright laws originally designed to
compensate starving artists allow starving attorneys, in this
electronic media era, to plunder the citizenry.”  The judge said the copyright owners showed little desire to
proceed in these lawsuits when faced with a “determined”
defendant.  In addition to referring the four lawyers to the discipline
committees of their various state and federal bar associations,
the judge said he would refer their actions to the U.S. Attorney
for the Central District of California and to the criminal
investigation division of the  Internal Revenue Service , and will
inform all judges before whom they have pending cases.  The lawyers and the copyright owners also must pay attorney
fees of more than $81,000 to one unnamed defendant in the case.  In an  interview  with AVN Media Network, which covers the
adult-film industry, Steele said he would appeal the ruling. He
said that he wasn’t an attorney in the case at issue and “have
never practiced law in California.”  He said that “hundreds” of judges around the country have
ruled on similar cases and have thrown out “crazy conspiracy
theories” brought by defense counsel, which includes the San
Francisco-based  Electronic Frontier Foundation .  He said with respect to the discipline-committee referrals,
“the Illinois Bar is well aware of this type of litigation. I
have had inquiries from the office of the Illinois State Bar and
have satisfied their requests in the past.”  Earlier, Steele filed a defamation suit, first in Florida
state court and then in federal court, against defendants who
criticized his handling of a copyright-infringement suit against
them.  He said in that suit that if the allegations made against
him were seen in the light of day, they would prompt those who
knew the plaintiffs “to suggest (or intervene and force)
intensive psychological therapy.”  He filed a dismissal of that case March 6 without giving
any reason.  That case was John L. Steele v. Paul Godfread, 1:13-cv-20744-JAL, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida
(Miami).  The case in which he and the other lawyers were sanctioned
is Ingenuity 13 LLC v. John Doe, 2:12-cv-08333-OLDW, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Advanced Cyber Attack Tools Seen as Readily Available to Hackers  Advanced cyber attack tools have become readily available
for use by foreign governments and terrorists to infiltrate or
cripple U.S. computer networks, two federal law enforcement
officials told a congressional panel.  Dozens of countries now have sophisticated cyber espionage
capabilities and terrorists want to ‘Joseph Demarest, ‘digitally
sabotage” U.S. power grids or water supply networks, assistant
director of the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation’s cyber
division, said in prepared testimony for a Senate hearing
yesterday.  President  Barack Obama  and intelligence officials have said
one of their top policy priorities is preventing cyber attacks
that could disrupt banks, telecommunications networks, utilities
or other vital services. Lawmakers have renewed their efforts to
advance cybersecurity legislation after Congress failed last
year to pass a bill. The Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime
and Terrorism held a hearing yesterday on how the government and
private sector are responding to cyber threats.  The advanced cyber tools that Symantec Inc. has found
recently being used for attacks include large scale data
breaches that last year exposed about 93 million identities,
“watering hole attacks” that target visitors to legitimate
websites and the use of an estimated 3.4 million bot zombies
around the world last year, according to the testimony of Cheri
McGuire, Symantec’s vice president for global affairs and cyber-security policy.  Cybersecurity threats posed by foreign governments and
terrorist groups against U.S. networks are growing, Jenny
Durkan, U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Washington,
said in prepared testimony for the hearing.     “  To help prevent attacks, the  Justice Department  is
establishing cells of cybersecurity specialists “to focus on
particular high-priority cyber targets,” Durkan said. She said
one cell is operational, without providing details.  There’s been “an uptick” in cyber attacks against U.S.
electric companies this year, Carl Herberger, a vice president
for the network security firm  Radware Ltd. (RDWR) , said in a phone
interview.  Information-technology systems at three different electric
companies were temporarily knocked off-line by cyber-attacks
this year, said Herberger, whose company is based in Tel-Aviv
with offices in New Jersey. He declined to discuss specifics or
name the companies.  U.S. intelligence agencies have concluded that groups in
China and Russia are responsible for electronic intrusions into
U.S. computer networks and the theft of  intellectual property ,
Durkan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 