-- Artemis Sailor’s Death Sparks Review of America’s Cup Safety
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2013-05-11T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/british-sailor-simpson-dies-in-america-s-cup-training-accident.html
Organizers of the  America’s Cup  will
work with the U.S. Coast Guard to investigate the accident that
killed two-time Olympic sailing medalist Andrew Simpson during
the Swedish team Artemis Racing’s practice on  San Francisco Bay .  Chief Executive Officer Stephen Barclay said the America’s
Cup Event Authority will work with the Coast Guard on an inquiry
to determine if changes need to be made to the 34th edition of
the 161-year-old regatta. Artemis’s boat nose-dived and crashed
two days ago while attempting a difficult maneuver.  “Only after the review’s done will we know what truly
happened and then we’ll decide if any action needs to be
taken,” Barclay said yesterday in a telephone interview.  The crash was the second involving the new 72-foot
catamarans being used in the Cup, which are some of the fastest
sailboats ever built, powered by 131-foot carbon wing sails and
capable of skimming above the water on hydrofoils at speeds
exceeding 40 knots.  Larry Ellison ’s Oracle Team USA, the
defending champion, destroyed a wing during a training accident
in October.  Ellison, chief executive of  Redwood City , California-based
 Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , won the right to host this year’s America’s Cup
after defeating a catamaran sailed by Swiss billionaire Ernesto Bertarelli’s Alinghi syndicate in a two-boat, best-of-three
series off  Valencia ,  Spain , using a  90-foot trimaran  with a 223-foot wing sail. His organizers then remade the Cup for
television audiences, using the high-speed, twin-hulled boats to
replace slower, safer monohulls.  Artemis Investigation  Artemis, the first of three teams to challenge for the Cup,
will also investigate the accident, according to a statement
from Torbjorn Tornqvist, the team’s chairman. Artemis represents
the Royal Swedish Yacht Club.  Tornqvist, co-founder of the Geneva-based oil trading
company Gunvor Group Ltd., said in an e-mailed statement that
Simpson was a key player and “binding force” on the team.  ‘Right now the primary focus of Artemis Racing is on the
well-being of our team members and their families, and the
America’s Cup competition will remain second to that,’’
Tornqvist said. “Artemis Racing will conduct a thorough
analysis and review of this accident and will be looking at how
the risks inherent to such competitive sailing can be limited in
the future for the safety of the team and all competitors in the
sailing community.”  Capsized Regularly  The catamarans use two widely spaced hulls to replace the
lead ballast used to balance conventional sailboats. Their light
weight and reduced friction makes them substantially faster than
boats used in previous editions of the Cup, though they can
nosedive and flip. Sailors wear crash helmets and carry oxygen
bottles and other safety gear.  Boats  capsized   regularly  at test events held around the
world in 45-foot catamarans. John Rousmaniere, America’s Cup
historian, said the new boats are testing the limits of
technology, even more than the 45-footers.  “These are the Indy cars of sailing, where handling at
high speeds is so tricky,” he said in a telephone interview.
“They ventured into new territory here on fairly short notice
when they went to the 72s.”  Gold Medal  Artemis was practicing with the Oracle team in flat water
and gusty conditions of 15 to 20 knots when the sailors
attempted to turn away from the wind, “one of the more
difficult maneuvers in sailing any fast boat,” Ian Murray,
regatta director, said in a news conference. During the turn,
the boat nosedived and broke up.  Simpson, 36, died after he was trapped beneath a section of
the capsized yacht, out of sight from other vessels and divers
searching for him, Murray said.  “Capsizing has been a part of these boats,” Murray said.
“All of the crew had been trained underwater. All carried
oxygen and had been trained for the worst.”  Mindy Talmadge, a spokeswoman for the San Francisco Fire
Department, said in a telephone interview two days ago that the
Oracle -- which practices with Artemis -- notified authorities
about 1 p.m. that a boat had capsized “and one person had been
underwater for about 10 minutes.”  Talmadge said CPR was performed on Simpson on a rescue boat
and at the St. Francis Yacht Club, where the sailor was
pronounced dead.  Simpson won a gold medal racing in the Star class at the
2008 Olympics as crew for Iain Percy, now Artemis’s sailing team
director. The pair earned a silver medal at the 2012 Olympics. A
veteran of two previous Cup campaigns, Simpson joined Artemis in
February to provide weather and tactical support.  “It’s a shocking experience to go through and we have a
lot to deal with in the next few days in terms of assuring
everyone’s well-being,” Paul Cayard, the team’s chief
executive, said during a news conference. “The boat’s under
control but that’s not the first of our concerns. We’re focused
on the people.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  