-- BSkyB Drops as U.K. Competitor BT Group Unveils Sports Channels
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-05-09T12:39:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/bskyb-drops-as-u-k-competitor-bt-group-unveils-sports-channels.html
British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) ,
the U.K.’s largest pay-TV broadcaster, fell the most in almost a
year after  BT Group Plc (BT/A)  unveiled sports channels to compete with
the Rupert Murdoch-controlled satellite operator.  BT Sport will be free for BT broadband subscribers and will
be offered to pubs and clubs at a price about 80 percent cheaper
than BSkyB’s service, the company said. It will start in August
and has recruited presenters including the  BBC ’s Clare Balding
and former English national rugby team captain Lawrence
Dallaglio.  “BSkyB shares are going to get murdered and will have a
significant weakness not only today but in the weeks and months
to come,” said  Alex DeGroote , a media analyst at Panmure Gordon
& Co. in London.  BSkyB shares fell as much as 6.6 percent to 805.5 pence in
London, the biggest intraday drop since June 2012.  TalkTalk (TALK) 
Telecom Group Plc, the U.K. broadband provider split off from
Carphone Warehouse Group Plc, dropped as much as 14 percent.  Though BSkyB is the market leader for pay-TV in the U.K.,
BT is a large rival that will use BT Sport and sporting rights
it bought in recent months to sell more broadband, competing
with BSkyB as well as cable company  Virgin Media  Inc. to offer
bundles of Internet, telecommunications and television services.  “BT and Virgin Media are not Mickey Mouse little operators
coming from left field,” DeGroote said. “People may be turning
away from Sky for the first time in ages.”  BSkyB was down 4.7 percent at 821.5 pence as of 1:35 p.m.
TalkTalk was down 8.8 percent at 230.4 pence and BT declined 2.1
percent to 276.3 pence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 