-- Bulgaria’s Gerb Tied With Socialists in Early Elections
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-05-10T14:55:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/bulgaria-s-gerb-tied-with-socialists-in-early-elections.html
Bulgaria’s Gerb party of former Prime
Minister  Boyko Borissov  and the rival Socialist Party are neck-and-neck before early elections, raising concern about the next
administration’s ability to extend an austerity program.  Gerb, which gave up control of the government on Feb. 20
following street protests, would take 33.1 percent in the May 12
vote, according to a May 2-7 survey of 1,200 people by Sova
Harris, published yesterday. The Socialists would get 32.3
percent. A Gallup poll today shows Gerb at 24 percent and the
Socialists at 23.6 percent. The two polls’ margin of error of
2.8 percent and 3 percent respectively implies a virtual tie.  Bulgaria, the  European Union ’s poorest member by per-capita
gross domestic product, was thrown into political turmoil in
February by anti-austerity protests that echoed unrest across
Europe. The next Cabinet needs to cobble together a coalition
willing to continue budget cuts to survive Europe’s credit
crisis after  unemployment  rose to an eight-year high and violent
rallies against poverty, graft and high utility bills forced
Borissov out of office.  “The election is likely to result in a fragmented
Parliament,”  Nicholas Spiro , the managing director of Spiro
Sovereign Strategy Ltd. in London, said in an e-mailed note
yesterday. “Political risk in Bulgaria is increasing
markedly.”  The yield on Eurobonds maturing in July 2017 rose 4 basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 1.6752 percent at 5:17 p.m.
in Sofia today.  CDS Prices  The cost of insuring the country’s debt with credit-default
swaps rose 1 percent to 93.99, after falling 8 percent on May 8,
the lowest intraday level since Jan. 8, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The Sofix stock index fell 0.24 percent
at close to 408.55 today, the biggest intraday decline since
April 17, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Bulgaria’s problem is not a lack of confidence on the
part of the markets, it’s a lack of confidence on the part of
its own citizens,” said Spiro.  A second poll today, by Alpha Research, put Gerb at 33
percent and the Socialists at 28 percent, with no margin of
error given.  The final Sova Harris survey indicates a late-campaign
erosion for Borissov, who was replaced by interim Premier Marin
Raikov until new elections, initially set for July, take place.  Gerb had been steadily gaining ground since February, with
an April 27-28 survey by MBMD showing its biggest lead yet
during the campaign, 28.3 percent versus 18.7 percent for the
Socialists. The last time the two sides were within 1 percentage
point was on March 23, when Sova Harris had Gerb at 19 percent
and the Socialists at 18.7 percent.  Unstable Outlook  “The outcome of the election is uncertain and the
government that emerges is likely to be less stable,” the
Economist Intelligence Unit said in a report yesterday. “The EU
will demand more tangible results in the fight against
corruption and organized crime.”  Borissov, a former bodyguard of Bulgaria’s last communist
dictator  Todor Zhivkov  and later of the former king and ex-Prime
Minister Simeon Saxe-Coburg-Gotha, will be unable to muster the
39.7 percent support he won in 2009, according to the latest
opinion polls.  Borissov’s support eroded as he was unable to turn around
the living standards for Bulgarians, who have lived under strict
fiscal and financial rules since 1997, when a crisis closed one-third of the country’s banks.  The European Commission cut Bulgaria’s 2013 growth forecast
on May 3 to 0.9 percent from 1.4 percent on Feb. 22, citing a
“weak labor market” and “fragile external environment.” GDP
expanded 0.8 percent in 2012 and unemployment was at 11.8
percent in March, just under the eight-year high of 12 percent
reached in February.  Low Debt  Still, government debt was 18.5 percent of GDP for all of
2012, the EU’s second-lowest behind Estonia, compared with the
27-nation bloc’s average of 86.9 percent in the same period,
according to Eurostat. This year’s budget deficit is forecast by
the European Commission to widen to 1.3 percent of GDP from 0.8
percent last year.  A coalition government led by either Gerb or the Socialist
Party would have to include the Movement for Rights and Freedoms
and perhaps other smaller parties, the EIU said.  The Movement for Rights and Freedoms, which represents
ethnic Turks, has the backing of 8.3 percent and the nationalist
Attack party has 6.3 percent in the final Sova Harris survey.  A new party set up by former EU Commissioner Meglena
Kouneva, the Movement of Bulgaria’s Citizens, has 4 percent
support, the minimum needed to enter Parliament.  Gerb has focused its campaign on keeping the flat 10
percent tax rate on personal and corporate income and freeing
the energy market to reduce utility prices.  Socialist Platform  The Socialists want to scrap the flat tax and resume the
construction of a 10 billion-euro ($13.1 billion) nuclear power
plant at Belene by Russia’s Rosatom Corp., which Borissov’s
administration canceled because of a lack of funds and
investors.  Borissov was named in a two-week-old wire-tapping scandal
involving tapes leaked to most Bulgarian media, including the
Capital and Presa newspapers.  The tapes were allegedly of a conversation between
Borissov, Sofia City Prosecutor Nikolai Kokinov and former
Agriculture Minister Miroslav Naidenov on interference with an
abuse-of-power probe against Naidenov. Kokinov resigned on April
27, a day after tape transcripts were published.  Source Dispute  While none of the three have denied the authenticity of the
tapes, Borissov questioned the source, saying it was unlikely a
police officer, as reported by media, but rather  a member of
the Socialist Party.  Public outrage over the state of the economy and spending
cuts spilled over into energy policy initiating prosecutor’s
investigations of  CEZ AS , the biggest Czech utility, Austria’s
 EVN AG  and Prague-based Energy-Pro, which control Bulgaria’s
power distributors.  Bulgaria’s energy regulator moved to cancel CEZ’s power
distribution license on Feb. 20, gave CEZ the option to fix the
suspected 21 violations and will rule on the license in June
after additional checks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  