-- Cameron Faces Gay-Marriage Fight Amid Child-Care Spat
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-05-09T11:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/cameron-faces-gay-marriage-fight-amid-child-care-spat.html
David Cameron  faces battles with his
own Tory lawmakers over plans to legalize gay marriage and with
his coalition partner,  Nick Clegg , over changes to child care
designed to cut costs for working parents.  The U.K. House of Commons will again debate gay marriage on
May 20. The prime minister only won a preliminary vote on Feb. 5
by relying on the support of his Liberal Democrat coalition
partners and the Labour opposition, as 139 Tories rebelled.  After local-election losses last week to the U.K.
Independence Party, which campaigns against immigration and the
European Union, both traditional Tory concerns, some of
Cameron’s members of Parliament are anxious not to alienate
their core support further.  “Cameron faces three problems on the gay-marriage vote
from MPs on his own side,”  Philip Cowley , professor of politics
at Nottingham University, said in a telephone interview. “Some
are just implacably opposed on principle. Second, because the
vote will pass anyway with the other parties’ support, it is a
cost-free way to rebel. The third is that as an MP, even if you
are not particularly opposed to gay marriage, the activists in
your constituency are and they are the ones who will deliver
your leaflets in 2015,” when the next general election is held.  Cameron and Clegg, who leads the Liberal Democrats,
announced measures yesterday for the next legislative session
designed to minimize rebellions, including toughening
immigration law and boosting consumer rights. Even so, Clegg
today questioned a policy designed to appeal to working parents
and women voters Cameron knows he must attract to win in 2015.  Truss Proposals  Tory Child-Care Minister Liz Truss has suggested letting
adults look after four babies under 24 months of age rather than
three, as now, and six two-year-olds rather than the current
four. A spokesman for Clegg, speaking on customary condition of
anonymity, said by telephone that the deputy premier remains to
be persuaded that’s the right move.  “The debate is all about can you raise quality and
quantity at the same time,” Clegg told LBC radio. “Is there a
link between increasing the number of toddlers that an adult is
looking after and raising the qualifications of that adult?”  Clegg also questioned a Tory pledge to get immigration down
to the “tens of thousands,” saying the government should be
“careful about the numbers game.”  “There is a more public nature to these blocks to policy
then there have been over the last three years,” Cowley said.
“The Tory right hate being in coalition and the  Lib Dems  are
desperate to show difference from the Tories, and Cameron is
squeezed in the middle.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at  kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  