-- Cameron Three Years on Yet to Find Growth Recipe: U.K. Credit
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-05-09T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/cameron-three-years-on-yet-to-find-growth-recipe-u-k-credit.html
Prime Minister David Cameron marks
the third anniversary of his coalition government tomorrow and
the U.K. economy is only starting to gather momentum.  With two years to go before the next general election,
Britain has yet to recover the  output  lost during the financial
crisis, inflation continues to outpace incomes and the
government has reduced the budget deficit by less than a third
since taking office instead of the half it forecast at the time.  Britain’s first coalition since World War II was forged
following inconclusive elections, with Cameron and his Liberal
Democrat counterpart, Nick Clegg, vowing to rid Britain of a
record deficit by 2015 and spur private investment. The lack of
growth has cost the Tories support and rattled investors. The
pound has fallen 4.7 percent against the dollar this year and
credit default swaps have risen 20 percent, the most among Group
of Seven nations.  “It’s certainly an inauspicious anniversary,” Robert Wood, chief U.K. economist at Berenberg Bank in London, said in
a phone interview yesterday. “They came in promising to
eliminate the deficit, that austerity would be done and we would
have spectacular growth. Instead, they have spectacularly
undelivered.”  Against this backdrop, the economy is showing signs of
stirring, with improvements in services, manufacturing and
construction. The National Institute of Economic and Social
Research yesterday  estimated  growth accelerated to 0.8 percent
in the three months through April from 0.3 percent in the first
quarter. The Bank of England also left its  bond-buying program 
at 375 billion pounds ($581 billion.)  Missed Forecasts  When Cameron and Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne
took over from Gordon Brown’s Labour government, the  Office for
Budget Responsibility  predicted the economy would grow 8.2
percent in the three years through 2013 and a budget deficit of
11.2 percent of gross domestic product would fall to 2 percent
by 2015.  The non-partisan watchdog now predicts growth of 1.9
percent, reflecting a recession in the euro region, credit
constraints and consumer prices that have increased three times
as much as wages since the election. The budget deficit was 7.8
percent of GDP in the fiscal year through March, 2.3 percentage
points higher than initially forecast, and Cameron says
austerity will have to continue well beyond 2015.  Cameron and Osborne are also losing allies. The
International Monetary Fund, which had backed their handling of
the economy, urged Britain to ease its deficit-reduction program
to encourage growth. On April 19, Fitch Ratings became the
second company to strip Britain of its top credit score after
Moody’s Investors Service on Feb. 22.  Economy ‘Healing’  “The prime minister takes the view that the economy is
healing,” Cameron’s spokesman, Jean Christophe Gray, told
reporters in  London  yesterday. “It remains a long road and it
won’t always be smooth.”  Bank of England asset purchases helped bonds hand investors
a 28 percent return since the coalition took office, the sixth
largest among 26 bond indexes tracked by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  The pound outperformed the dollar and the euro in the first
two years of the Cameron government, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes, as investors endorsed its
austerity program. Since then, as an initial recovery stalled,
sterling has underperformed, the indexes that track 10 developed
market currencies show. The pound fell 0.3 percent to $1.5491
yesterday in London.  ‘Almost Surprised’  The five-year breakeven rate, a gauge of investor
expectations derived from the difference in yield between
regular and index-linked bonds, was at 2.91 percentage points
yesterday, the highest in the G-7 and above the current
inflation rate of 2.8 percent.  “I am almost surprised that there hasn’t been a more
adverse market reaction,” said Ross Walker, chief U.K.
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London. “The
economy will be an issue” with voters.  To retain power in 2015, Cameron needs to overturn opinion
 polls  that show the Tories lagging behind the opposition Labour
Party by about 10 percentage points. The party suffered an early
blow when it lost seats in local elections last week to Labour
and the U.K. Independence Party, which campaigns against
immigration and the European Union.  Labour leader Ed Miliband says the question he’ll be asking
at the next election is whether people’s economic situation has
improved.  “The government tries to tell people they’re better off,”
he said in Parliament on May 8. “But they know the reality:
they’re worse off. Wages down 1,700 pounds since the election,
with tax and benefit changes hitting families by an average of
891 pounds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  