-- Canadian Tire to Spin Off Stores in $3.5 Billion REIT
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-05-09T21:37:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/canadian-tire-to-spin-off-stores-in-3-5-billion-reit.html
Canadian Tire Corp., the country’s
largest sporting goods retailer, will create a C$3.5 billion
($3.5 billion) real estate investment trust in an initial public
offering this year. The shares surged the most on record.  The REIT will acquire most of the company’s owned real
estate, which includes about 250 properties comprised of mainly
Canadian Tire retail stores and a distribution center, Toronto-based Canadian Tire said today in a statement. The properties
would represent about 18 million square feet.  Canadian Tire plans to keep 80 percent to 90 percent of the
REIT, which will have a minimal effect on the company’s
earnings, the company said.  Shares  rose  11 percent to C$82.36 at 4:14 p.m. trading in
Toronto, the most since Nov. 13, 2008.  The sporting goods and automotive parts retailer joins
 Loblaw Cos. (L) ,  Canada ’s biggest grocery chain by market value,
which announced in December it plans to spin off about 35
million square feet of real estate worth about C$7 billion in a
REIT IPO. The Brampton, Ontario-based company said on May 1 it
plans to file regulatory documents for the IPO later this month
and close the sale by early to mid July.  Hudson’s Bay Co. (HBC) , Canada’s oldest company, is also looking
at creating a REIT “sometime in the future”, Chief Executive
Officer  Richard Baker  said last month.  REIT IPOs  REITs have raised $760 million from six Canadian IPOs this
year, including Milestone Apartments REIT and Agellan Commercial
REIT, to account for 74 percent of $1.02 billion raised from
initial offerings this year in the country, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Canadian REITs raised almost $500 million in seven IPOs
last year, more than any other industry in Canada, the data
show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  