-- Canada March New House Price Index Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2013-05-09T12:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/canada-march-new-house-price-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
the new house price index report for March released by
Statistics  Canada .  The New Housing Price Index (NHPI) rose 0.1% in March,
following a 0.2% increase in February. The month-over-month
gains in the index have ranged from 0.1% to 0.3% for the past 12
months.  Calgary was the top contributor to the advance in March, up
0.3% from February. Builders indicated that increases in
material and labour costs as well as market conditions were the
main reasons for higher prices.  For the second month in a row, the largest monthly price
advance occurred in Regina (+0.7%). This follows little or no
change throughout the second half of 2012. Builders reported
higher material and labour costs as the main reason for price
increases in March.  Saskatoon and Windsor followed closely, with prices for new
homes rising by 0.5% in both regions. This was the largest price
increase in Saskatoon since April 2012, and the first increase
this year, as builders cited higher land development costs as
the primary reason for the advance. The increase in Windsor, the
largest since February 2012, comes after nearly seven months of
no price changes, with builders reporting they were no longer
offering bonuses to stimulate sales.  Prices for new houses were also up from February in
Winnipeg (+0.3%), Hamilton (+0.2%), and the combined
metropolitan region of Toronto and Oshawa (+0.1%).  In March, prices decreased 0.2% in  Vancouver , as builders
lowered their prices to finalize sales. Prices were unchanged in
9 of the 21 metropolitan regions surveyed.  On a year-over-year basis, the NHPI rose 2.0% in the 12
months to March, following a 2.1% increase the previous month.
Annual price increases at the national level have been
decelerating since the start of 2013.  The main contributor to the advance was the combined region
of Toronto and Oshawa, where the year-over-year increase in the
contractors’ selling prices was 3.2%. However, this was down
substantially from the 6.2% reported in March 2012, as annual
price increases in this region have been generally decelerating.  For the fourth consecutive month, Winnipeg recorded the
largest year-over-year price movement in Canada. Prices were up
5.1% in March, compared with a 4.2% advance over the same period
in 2012.  In Calgary, annual prices rose 4.3%, following an identical
increase in February and several consecutive months of
accelerating annual price increases. Other significant year-over-year increases occurred in Regina (+2.9%) and Halifax
(+2.7%).  Among the 21 metropolitan regions surveyed, 3 posted 12-month price declines in March. The largest annual decreases were
in British Columbia, where new housing prices continued to fall
in both Victoria (-1.6%) and Vancouver (-0.7%). Annual prices
fell by 0.1% in Charlottetown, the ninth consecutive month of
year-over-year price declines for the region.  Note to readers  The New Housing Price Index measures changes over time in
the selling prices of new residential houses agreed upon between
the contractor and the buyer at the time of the signing of the
contract. It is designed to measure the changes in the selling
prices of new houses where detailed specifications pertaining to
each house remain the same between two consecutive periods. The
prices collected from builders and included in the index are
market selling prices less value added taxes, such as the
Federal Goods and Services Tax (GST) or the Harmonized Sales Tax
(HST).  The provincial government of British Columbia introduced
legislation on May 14, 2012, announcing the return to a
provincial sales tax on April 1, 2013. From April 1, 2012, until
March 31, 2013, there are new housing transitional rebates in
place. After the transition is complete, the provincial sales
tax on building materials in British Columbia will be embedded
in contractors’ selling prices of new houses. These changes will
be reflected in the New Housing Price Index as reported by
respondents.  Effective April 1, 2013, in Prince  Edward Island , the
federal 5% GST is combined with a reduced 9% provincial tax to
create a single 14% HST. Previously, only the GST (5%) was
applied to new homes. Under the new rules, the tax applied to
the purchase of a new home will be 14%.  The indexes are not subject to revision and are not
seasonally adjusted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  