-- Carlyle First-Quarter Profit Rises 0.5% on Markets Gains
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-05-09T10:47:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/carlyle-first-quarter-profit-rises-0-5-on-markets-gains.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the world’s second-largest manager of alternative assets such as private equity and
real estate, said first-quarter profit rose 0.5 percent as the
firm collected more fees from investors for managing their
money.  Economic net income, a measure of profit excluding some
costs, rose to $393.9 million from $392.1 million a year ago,
Washington-based Carlyle said today in a statement. After taxes,
economic net income was $1.02 a share, beating the 96-cents
average estimate of 10  analysts  in a Bloomberg survey.  A 10 percent gain in U.S. stocks during the quarter and a
rebounding real estate market helped lift the firm’s fund
holdings, boosting fees for managing them. Carlyle took
advantage of rising markets worldwide to sell shares in
companies during the quarter, including exiting its investment
in  China Pacific Insurance (Group) Co.. (2601)   “We expect Carlyle to be among the more active firms on
the monetization front in 2013,” Howard Chen, an analyst at
Credit Suisse Group AG in New York, said in a note to clients
before the earnings were released. “We also expect various 2013
real estate fund launches to boost fee-related assets.”  The value of Carlyle’s buyout holdings increased 9 percent
in the first three months of the year, the firm said last month.
By comparison,  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) ’s portfolio gained
14 percent,  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ’s rose 7.9 percent and  KKR &
Co. (KKR) ’s appreciated 5.9 percent.  Real Estate  Carlyle, which held its initial public offering last year,
reported earnings before U.S. markets opened for trading. The
stock  gained  24 percent this year to close at $32.20 yesterday,
above its IPO price of $22 a share.  Like competitors Blackstone and KKR, Carlyle has
diversified its business  beyond  traditional leveraged buyouts to
bolster assets dedicated to real estate and credit investments.
Together, all of Carlyle’s funds from which it can collect a
slice of profits, which besides buyout pools also includes its
real estate and certain Global Market Strategies funds, gained 7
percent.  The value of buyout holdings at private-equity firms
affects economic net income, or ENI, because the metric depends
on quarterly mark-to-market valuations of those investments.
Accounting rules require the firms to value their portfolio
holdings every quarter.  Net Income  Carlyle, like other alternative-asset firms, reports profit
that differs from U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
First-quarter profit under those rules, known as GAAP, was $33.8
million, or 66 cents a share, the company said, without giving a
year-earlier figure.  Carlyle had distributable earnings, which measures the
availability of earnings to return to private and public
investors, of $168.4 million in the first quarter, compared with
$178.8 million a year ago. The company said it will pay a
 dividend  of 16 cents a share to public investors on May 31.  Private-equity firms pool money from investors including
pension plans and endowments with a mandate to buy companies
within about five to six years, then sell them and return the
funds with a profit after about 10 years. The firms, which use
debt to finance the deals and amplify returns, typically charge
an annual management fee equal to 1.5 percent to 2 percent of
committed funds and keep 20 percent of profit from investments.  Total assets under management at Carlyle rose to $176.3
billion from $170.2 billion at the end of 2012, the firm said.
Blackstone, the largest so-called alternative-asset manager,
said last month its assets under management reached an industry
record $218 billion.  Carlyle in January debuted a fund that will allow clients
to commit as little as $50,000 to be invested across the pools
managed by the firm. CPG Carlyle Private Equity Fund, which is
being raised by New York investment firm Central Park Group LLC,
lowers the minimum investment to Carlyle funds from a typical
range of $5 million to $20 million, and is viewed by the firm as
a first step toward eventually accessing a slice of the $3.57
trillion 401(k) market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  