-- Chalco to Sell $1.3 Billion of Assets, Mainly to Parent
-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n
-- 2013-05-09T22:30:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/chalco-to-sell-1-3-billion-of-assets-mainly-to-parent.html
Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. , the
nation’s biggest producer of the lightweight metal, said it will
sell about 8.18 billion  yuan  ($1.3 billion) of assets, including
production plants, mainly to its parent.  The Beijing-based company, called Chalco, also plans to
sell $1 billion of perpetual bonds overseas and will eliminate
the position of chief executive officer, with the chairman and
president taking over those functions, according to  Hong Kong 
and Shanghai stock exchange filings yesterday.  The sale of stakes in its aluminum-fabrication units will
“optimize the asset structure, lower the debt-to-asset ratio
and improve the debt portfolio of the company,” Chalco said in
two of the filings. This will let the “company focus on the
development of quality resources” and the high end of the value
chain, it said.  Chalco has posted net losses for six straight quarters,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg, including a 975
million-yuan in the three months through March 31. The company
is unlikely to deliver an operational turnaround amid weak metal
prices and cost challenges,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  analysts led by Ephrem Ravi said in March.  The company plans to sell the alumina assets of its Guizhou
branch, valued at 4.43 billion yuan, to parent Aluminum
Corporation of  China , or Chinalco, because the Guiyang city
government has shifted the designation of the plant’s district
to commercial from industrial, according to a company filing.  Chalco said it will build a new alumina production line,
which will have “certain cost advantages” and Chinalco can
develop the former plant site.  The company said in a separate filing that it also plans to
sell the assets of its aluminum fabrication unit in northwest
China, valued at 1.66 billion yuan, to Chinalco.  Chalco will offer stakes in eight more aluminum fabrication
units on the China Beijing Equity Exchange, it said in another
statement and Chinalco has informed the company that it plans to
bid. The asset value from those units attributable to the
company is 2.09 billion yuan, Chalco said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7563 or
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Fellman in  New York  at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  