-- Chevron Wins Suit Against U.S. Over California Oil Field
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-05-09T18:07:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/chevron-wins-suit-against-u-s-over-california-oil-field.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX)  is entitled to
unspecified damages against the federal government in a contract
dispute over  oil deposits  in  California  worth $37 billion, the
U.S. Court of Claims ruled.  The  Department of Energy  “repeatedly and materially
violated” two agreements governing determination of equity
interests in oil and gas deposits located in the Elk Hills
Reserve of California, Judge Susan Braden in Washington wrote in
a 90-page ruling.  Chevron “is entitled to be compensated for damages, in an
amount to be determined, including sanctions for DOE and the
government’s ‘bad faith’ conduct and abusive discovery
tactics,” Braden wrote in the ruling made public yesterday.  Chevron filed the suit in 2004 after failing to agree on
the exact split of its joint holdings in the Elk Hills facility
with the Energy Department. The company and the government
operated the field together for more than 50 years, and had
agreed to proceed with the sale of the government’s stake to
 Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY)  while they worked out the holdings.  Steven Thai, an Energy Department spokesman, referred calls
for comment to the  Justice Department . Allison Price, a Justice
Department spokeswoman, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail
message seeking comment. Donald Campbell, a spokesman for  San
Ramon , California-based Chevron, didn’t immediately respond to
an e-mail message seeking comment on the ruling.  Elk Hills  The Elk Hills Field, located near Bakersfield, California,
encompasses more than 47,000 acres and includes more than 1,000
wells, a 47-megawatt power plant and two units that process gas.
The government’s share in the field of about 78 percent, which
is still being disputed by Chevron, is estimated to hold
reserves equal to about 1 billion barrels of oil.  Occidental Petroleum bought the government’s stake in Elk
Hills, one of the largest remaining oil fields outside  Alaska ,
for $3.65 billion in 1997. That’s about $3.65 for each barrel of
oil-equivalent it contains. Chevron and Occidental are not
operating the oil and gas field together.  The sale of the interest in Elk Hills reserve, set aside in
the early 1900s for emergency military use by the U.S. Navy, was
the largest government asset sale ever at the time.  In her ruling, Braden ordered the government to reimburse
Chevron for 42 percent of its legal fees for two years,
beginning in February 2007, as a sanction for “bad faith”
litigation tactics involving the production of documents.  The case is Chevron USA Inc. v. U.S., 04-1365, U.S. Court
of Federal Claims (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Zajac  in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  