-- China Subdued Inflation Gives Room to Raise Utility Costs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-09T03:48:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/china-s-april-consumer-prices-rise-2-4-from-year-earlier.html
China ’s  consumer inflation  stayed
subdued in April while the decline in factory-gate price
declines deepened, adding to evidence of softer demand and
giving the government room to raise utility fees.  The consumer price  index (SHCOMP)  rose 2.4 percent in April, the
National Bureau of Statistics said today in Beijing, compared
with a median forecast of 2.3 percent in a Bloomberg News survey.
The producer price  index  fell 2.6 percent, after March’s 1.9
percent drop.  Inflation running below the government’s annual goal of 3.5
percent gives new Premier Li Keqiang leeway to loosen resource-fee controls that the World Bank says encourage pollution and
limit incentives for new technologies. The producer-price
deflation may reflect lower commodity prices and factory
overcapacity.  “With inflation remaining benign, they can move faster,”
said  Zhu Haibin , chief China economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
in Hong Kong. “Resource price reforms will happen faster than
reforms in other areas this year” and may begin with fees for
industrial use of electricity, water and gasoline, Zhu said.  China will speed up the process of setting up tiered
pricing for utilities, the State Council, or cabinet, said May 6
after a meeting led by Li.  The benchmark  Shanghai  Composite Index of stocks fell 0.7
percent at the 11:30 a.m. local-time break, set for the first
drop in five days, after producer prices declined more than
forecast. Wang Weijun, a strategist at Zheshang Securities Co.
in Shanghai, said the price fall indicates weaker-than-expected
growth.  Interest Rates  “Mild inflationary pressures” increase the likelihood of
an interest-rate cut in China “soon,” said Liu Li-Gang, chief
Greater China economist at  Australia  & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd., who formerly worked at the World Bank. Haitong
International Securities Group said China may lower banks’
 reserve requirements  as soon as this month.  JPMorgan’s Zhu said monetary policy will “remain
neutral,” while Nomura Holdings Inc. said April’s  inflation (CNCPIYOY) 
pickup makes any policy easing unlikely.  The decline in producer prices reflects falling commodity
prices as well as excess  manufacturing  capacity in China, Yao Wei, China economist at Societe Generale SA in Hong Kong, said
on Bloomberg Television. Companies are having a “difficult
time” raising prices, which will keep affecting profit margins,
she said.  “There’s very little inflation pressure right now in the
economy,” Yao said. “It shows there’s weak demand and there’s
no imported inflation.”  Weaker Indicators  The Bank of  Korea  unexpectedly lowered its benchmark
 interest rate  by a quarter percentage point today, in part
because the “trends of improvement in economic indicators in
emerging-market countries such as China have been weaker than
initially anticipated,” according to a statement. The rate cut
follows moves this month by central banks in Australia,  Europe 
and  India .  In a sign of weakness in demand,  Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. (600019) ,
China’s biggest publicly traded steelmaker, said today it cut
hot-rolled steel prices for June delivery by 180  yuan  ($29) per
metric ton and cold-rolled prices by 150 yuan.  The Shanghai Securities News reported today that a plan to
curb overcapacity in the steel, cement and flat glass industries
is being compiled and will be submitted to the central
government for approval.  Food Prices  Food  prices  rose 4 percent last month from a year earlier,
compared with 2.7 percent the previous month, with fresh-vegetable prices helping drive the pickup in broader inflation
from March’s 2.1 percent pace. Transportation and communication
costs fell 1.1 percent after March’s 0.3 percent decline,
according to the bureau.  Moves to loosen government control over prices have already
helped companies including  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386) ,
Asia’s biggest refiner, and  PetroChina Co. (857) , the nation’s biggest
oil producer. China Petroleum, or Sinopec, profited from crude
processing last quarter for the first time since 2011 while
PetroChina narrowed refining losses.  China, the world’s biggest energy user, will increase
residential gas prices this year by as much as 20 percent in
some cities, according to brokers including Mirae Asset
Securities Ltd. and CLSA Ltd.  People’s Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said last
month that the nation needs to “sacrifice short-term growth”
to make reforms in the economy. The central bank is projected to
leave its benchmark lending rate unchanged at 6 percent through
the end of the year, according to 21 of 29 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News last month.  Trade Data  The inflation numbers followed trade data yesterday from
the customs administration, which showed export  growth  in April
unexpectedly accelerated to 14.7 percent. Analysts at Bank of
America Corp. and Mizuho Securities Co. said the figures
probably were inflated by fake invoicing by companies.  The statistics bureau is scheduled on May 13 to release
data on industrial output and retail sales for April and
investment for the first four months, while the central bank is
set to report on April  lending  and money-supply expansion by May
15.  --Zhou Xin, with assistance from Kevin Hamlin in Beijing, Ailing Tan in  Singapore  and Cynthia Li and Karolina Miziolek in Hong
Kong. Editors: Scott Lanman, Nerys Avery  To contact the reporter on this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  