-- China Halts Bond Accounts in Crackdown, Securities Journal Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-09T03:05:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/china-halts-bond-accounts-in-crackdown-securities-journal-says.html
China  suspended trading for bond
accounts of non-financial institutions on the nation’s interbank
market as authorities seek to stamp out illegal activities, the
 China Securities Journal  reported.  The accounts will be allowed to only sell securities they
hold, settle existing contracts or find new custodians, the
newspaper reported today, citing a notice that the China Central
Depository & Clearing Co. issued May 7 with immediate effect.
Account holders must download and fill out “emergency” request
forms from the clearing house to sell bond holdings or transfer
to a new custodian, according to the report.  The suspension was imposed to end practices used to make
personal gains through bond accounts held by non-financial
institutions, the Chinese-language newspaper reported, citing
unidentified bond traders. The impact on the  debt market  won’t
be large as participants have been expecting regulatory action,
according to the report.  A woman at China Central Depository & Clearing’s client
service office, who declined to give her name when contacted by
telephone today, said she wasn’t aware of the order.  China’s central bank met last month with participants in
the $3.7 trillion interbank bond market, asking them to examine
trading histories as it cracks down on illegal transactions, two
people with knowledge of the matter said at the time.  Some financial institutions, seeking to move bonds off
their balance sheets, have asked other institutions to hold
those bonds for them over a certain period and for a specific
fee, according to an April 22 China National Radio article.  Interest payments and gains from any price appreciation
continue to belong to the original owner of the bond, according
to the article. Because such transactions are outside of
regulated markets, they open the door to abuses like  insider
trading  and the use of client funds for trades generating
personal gains, China National Radio said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  