-- Citigroup Funds Bestowed on Employees Offer Volcker Payday
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-05-09T15:28:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/citigroup-fund-bestowed-on-managers-offers-volcker-rule-payday.html
For a pair of former  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
hedge-fund managers,  Napier Park Global Capital  may turn into a
multimillion-dollar payday thanks to the Volcker rule.  Jonathan Dorfman and  James O’Brien  are among executives who
got 75 percent of the investment firm for free when it broke off
from Citigroup earlier this year. The business may be worth $360
million, according to hedge-fund consultant Ezra Zask. The
estimate is based on the $143.4 million in fees the firm may
collect this year, according to internal projections obtained by
Bloomberg News.  Any windfall Napier Park executives get stems from former
Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit ’s response to the Volcker
rule, a Dodd-Frank Act provision designed to force U.S. banks to
reduce investments in hedge funds. While Citigroup says the
decision to give away most of the business served shareholders’
interests, the New York-based lender never publicly disclosed
how much it’s paying Napier Park executives.  “Investors pay a hefty premium in management and incentive
fees to have their assets managed by firms like Napier Park,”
Zask said. “It’s difficult to tell if Citi’s motive was to help
out their buddies or to take advantage of a superior investment
opportunity.”  ‘Ensure Compliance’  Bloomberg News first reported Citigroup’s plan to give
managers a majority stake in Napier Park in December, citing
people with knowledge of the matter.  Pandit and former Chief Operating Officer  John Havens , 56,
oversaw the design of the spinout before leaving in October.
Dorfman, 51, and O’Brien, 53, run Napier Park and received about
25 percent of the firm, which still operates from the bank’s
Park Avenue headquarters in  Manhattan , the people said. The four
men, who joined Citigroup in 2007, had previously worked at
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  for about two decades. Other managers share about
50 percent and the bank holds the remaining 25 percent.  “As part of our efforts to ensure compliance with Dodd-Frank, we conducted a thorough process and explored all
available options,” Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a Citigroup
spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement. “This transaction
was structured to align the interest of Citi’s stakeholders,
while responsibly creating a profitable and stable company.”  Napier Park manages about $6.8 billion, including single-investor accounts and collateralized loan obligations, according
to a March 1  statement . About $3.64 billion of that was spread
across 10 hedge funds as of April 11, according to the documents
obtained by  Bloomberg News . Citigroup had $2.27 billion of
shareholders’ cash tied up in the hedge funds at the end of
2012, the documents show.  Leveraged Loans  The 10 hedge funds wager on securities including European
leveraged loans and credit derivatives. At least five funds,
including those investing in mortgage-backed securities and
distressed debt, beat peers in 2012, according to the documents
and data compiled by Bloomberg. Others, including a fund that
bets on  interest rates  and currencies, underperformed. Nine of
the funds gained this year through April 11, while a municipal
bond fund dropped 0.8 percent, the documents show.  Romero-Apsilos and Mickey Mandelbaum, a Napier Park
spokesman, declined to comment on how much Citigroup is paying
in fees.  The documents show how Citigroup intends to withdraw cash
from the funds gradually to comply with the Volcker rule, giving
Napier Park time to raise money from investors. The documents
also contain estimates of performance and management fees the
firm stands to collect under scenarios for attracting new
capital. Some fees help cover overhead costs.  Bank’s Withdrawal  While  Napier Park  expects to collect $143.4 million in fees
this year under a forecast in which it replaces capital, the sum
may drop to $127.8 million in a scenario in which assets under
management fall amid Citigroup’s withdrawal, the documents show.  The documents list $4.5 million “executive incentive
compensation” that pays out whether Napier Park’s assets under
management increase or decline, the documents show. Dorfman and
O’Brien, the firm’s senior managing partners, didn’t respond to
e-mails seeking comment on the payment.  The documents list higher management fee rates for
Citigroup than what Napier Park would charge new investors. The
bank’s 2 percent fee on its $356 million in the Mortgage/Credit
Opportunity fund at the end of December is 60 percent higher
than the 1.25 percent that the fund plans to ask of new
investors, the documents show. Similar premiums for Citigroup
are listed at six other funds, according to the documents.  Citigroup ‘Pleased’  Hedge-fund managers typically earn 2 percent of the assets
they oversee as a management fee and 20 percent of the profits
as an incentive.  The bank may pay $71.1 million in total fees to Napier Park
in 2013, even as the bank withdraws assets to comply with the
Volcker rule, said Zask, head of New York-based hedge-fund
consulting firm SFC Associates and author of “All About Hedge
Funds,” an analysis of the industry.  Zask said he based his estimate on the data in the
documents, including the size of Citigroup’s investment, as well
as assumptions about how the funds will continue to perform this
year and their fee structure.  “Generally, we have no issue with paying performance fees
on funds that are performing well year-to-date,” Romero-Apsilos
said. “We are pleased with the year-to-date performance of the
funds.”  Zask said the firm could be worth $360 million this year if
it achieves projections for performance and attracting new
investors. That could rise to $392 million by 2016, he said.  Hit Targets  Kyle Vataha, a vice president at Pluris Valuation Advisors
LLC, specializes in valuing private-equity and hedge funds. He
said Napier Park could be worth $251 million if executives hit
the targets in the projections. That could slump to $61 million
if they fail to replace Citigroup’s cash, Vataha said.  Roberto Caccia, who runs the Richard M. Burridge Center for
Securities Analysis & Valuation at the  University of Colorado ,
said Napier Park could be worth as much as $300 million by 2016
if the firm replaces Citigroup’s money with outside investment
and attracts extra cash.  “They need to survive the initial period of uncertainty,”
said Caccia, a former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  managing
director. “If they manage to replace capital and line up to an
industry-standard fee structure, then they could get to that
ballpark number.”  ‘Shutdown Approach’  The deal could produce a gain for shareholders if the funds
perform well and the value of Citigroup’s 25 percent stake
increases, said Craig Cognetti, a New York-based partner of
investment-advisory firm Grail Partners LLC, who reviewed data
from the documents.  “If this venture is successful, the long-term value of
Citigroup’s minority stake will exceed the fees paid over the
next few years,” he said. “More importantly, the net return
from this approach will exceed the shutdown approach, which
probably would have ended up in a sizable loss.”  Other U.S. banks have sought payment when investment
divisions break off under managers’ control. Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s estate has received more than $1 billion as it
sells its Neuberger Berman Group LLC investment firm to
managers. The investment bank’s estate could receive $1.5
billion in total as executives take full control, the two firms
have said.  Victory Sale  KeyCorp (KEY) , the Cleveland-based bank, also required payment
when selling its Victory Capital Management unit in February. In
that deal, employees teamed with Crestview Partners LLC to
acquire the business for $246 million. The transaction will
leave senior executives and other workers owning a “significant
amount” of the firm, New York-based Crestview said in a
statement.  The Volcker rule, named for former Federal Reserve Chairman
 Paul Volcker , seeks to restrict deposit-taking banks from owning
more than 3 percent of a hedge fund’s assets or investing more
than 3 percent of  Tier 1 capital  in the funds.  Citigroup may pull about $1.3 billion from Napier Park’s
hedge funds this year as it begins to comply, according to the
documents. Fund executives would raise a total of $3.2 billion
through June 2014 as the bank’s investment shrinks under one of
the scenarios, the documents show.  Singapore’s Stake  Napier Park has clients beyond Citigroup, such as a
Singaporean state-owned investor, which is the largest
stakeholder in one of the funds, people familiar with the matter
said in December. That fund manages more than $300 million, the
documents show. A separate $352 million municipal-bond fund
contained just $46 million of the bank’s money at the end of
2012, according to the documents.  Citigroup remains the biggest investor in the rest of the
funds, some of which trace their roots to Old Lane Partners LP,
the firm that Pandit and Havens founded and later sold to the
bank for $800 million. At least half the money in eight of 10
Napier Park funds comes from Citigroup, the documents show.  Some of Napier Park’s wagers are currently paying off for
Citigroup. The European Credit Opportunities fund, which held
$172 million of the bank’s money on Dec. 31, climbed 8 percent
this year through April 11, the documents show. The fund, which
bets on riskier corporate debt, rose 56 percent in 2012.  The $684 million Event Driven Strategies fund, run by
former Old Lane executive Mukesh Patel, is among Citigroup’s
biggest investments. At year-end, the bank had about $470
million in the fund, which seeks to profit from events such as
mergers and acquisitions. The fund gained 3.7 percent this year
through April 11, the documents show.  Global Macro  The Synthetic Portfolio Equity fund, the smallest of the
10, wagers on  credit derivatives . Fred Hoffman runs the fund,
which contained $114 million of Citigroup money at the end of
2012, the documents show. The fund jumped 31 percent in 2012 and
2.6 percent this year through April 11.  A $252 million distressed-debt fund posted a 7.7 percent
gain through that date, while the Global Macro fund, which
wagers on interest rates and oversees about $245 million,
advanced 2.6 percent, the documents show.  The $461 million Mortgage/Credit Opportunity fund gained
4.9 percent, the documents show. Rajesh Kumar, the founder of
the fund, left Citigroup after a dispute with Dorfman and
O’Brien, people familiar with the matter said in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  