-- Coal Industry Stung as Terror Cuts Explosives: Corporate India
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2013-05-09T10:47:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/coal-industry-stung-as-terror-cuts-explosives-corporate-india.html
Coal India Ltd. (COAL) , the nation’s biggest
producer of the commodity, cut output across its operations
after a  federal order  to keep explosives from terrorists halted
shipments of the material that’s also central to mining.  No explosives have been dispatched to Coal India’s mines
for the past three days because suppliers are grappling with the
new rules imposed to ensure safety of the consignments, Chairman
S. Narsing Rao said in an interview. The  state-owned  company
uses about 400,000 metric tons of explosives in a year and
produces about 1.2 million tons daily from its 466 mines.  “Explosives are bread and butter for us,” Rao said.
“Operations at all mines have been affected and we are
assessing the impact.”  Faced with a Maoist rebellion in resource-rich states of
India, Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government is increasing
security measures to prevent the chemicals from falling into the
hands of extremists fighting a war against the state. The
disruption may hurt the Kolkata-based company, which supplies 80
percent of the fuel the nation needs, and starve power producers
struggling to eliminate blackouts in a country where peak demand
for electricity exceeds generation by 9 percent.  ‘Not Practical’  Vehicles transporting derivatives of ammonium nitrate, the
main raw material in mining explosives, need to be escorted by
armed guards of the local police of every district they pass
through, according to an order by the  Petroleum and Explosives
Safety Organization  that came into force on April 30. Suppliers
risk losing their permits should they flout the new rules,
according to the notification.  “This is just not practical,” said Subhas Pramanik,
Managing Director at Gulf Oil Corp. Ltd., which makes and
supplies explosives to mines. “This will increase our cost
because the number of shipments will get reduced
substantially.”  Ammonium nitrate, also used to make fertilizers, was found
to have been used in a number of blasts in the country,
including in the southern city of Hyderabad in February that
killed 16 people. To check such misuse, the government last year
 introduced rules  for storage, shipment and stockpiling.  The stoppage is set to squeeze Coal  India , which missed its
output target in the year ended March 31 as it battled law and
order problems, worker unrest and delays in acquiring land and
mining approvals.  Power Outages  Coal India, which is  90 percent owned  by the state and
fires more than half of the nation’s electricity generation
capacity, is under pressure to ensure uninterrupted shipments of
the fuel. Power outages shave off about 1.2 percentage points
off the growth of the $1.8 trillion economy that expanded at the
slowest pace in a decade, according to government estimates.  India’s coal demand is expected to rise 41 percent by 2017
to 981 million tons, while supplies from local mines may gain 28
percent to 715 million tons, the  Planning Commission  said last
year. The nation, which generates 57 percent of its electricity
from coal, plans to add 118 gigawatts of capacity in the five
years ending March 2017, said I.A. Khan, energy adviser at the
commission.  Coal India shares fell 1.1 percent to 308.85 rupees in
Mumbai. The stock has declined 13 percent this year, compared
with a 2.6 percent gain in the benchmark  S&P BSE Sensex. (SENSEX)   Solar Industries Ltd. (SOIL) , India’s biggest supplier of
industrial explosives, declined 2.9 percent to 989.15 rupees,
the most in more than two months. Rival Gulf Oil, the second-biggest, declined 2.6 percent to 62.85 rupees.  Maoist Rebels  “The situation poses serious implications and can
potentially bring the  mining industry  to a standstill,” said
Abhisar Jain, an analyst with Centrum Broking Pvt. in Mumbai,
who has a neutral rating on Coal India stock. “If not resolved
soon, it can aggravate power shortages and lead to a crunch in
supplies of end materials such as steel and aluminum on account
of shortage of minerals due to a halt in mining.”  Maoist guerillas, who regularly clash with police mostly in
India’s mining regions in the states of Odisha, Jharkhand,
Chhattisgarh and Bihar, say they are fighting on behalf of poor
villagers and tribal communities whose resources are exploited
for development with little benefit for the local people.  In 2009, Maoists attacked National Aluminium Co.’s Odisha
bauxite mine in a bid to seize the explosives stored at a
warehouse. The gun battle between guards and the guerillas,
which killed at least 14 people, slowed output at the mine for
several weeks as workers refused to work at night.  The rebels, who have killed almost 9,500 civilians and
security personnel since 1998, have threatened to “chop off a
head for every tree” should jungle cover be removed to start
new mines in their hideouts. Prime Minister Singh has called
them the nation’s biggest internal threat.  Piling Stocks  While explosives suppliers have appealed to the regulator,
their stocks have been piling up, causing plant shutdowns as
they can’t keep inventories beyond their licensed capacities.
The halt in production has also started to inflate spot prices
of the material, said A.N. Gupta, chairman at  Premier Explosives
Ltd. (PRE) , from the southern Indian city of Hyderabad.  “Almost half of our production capacity for explosives is
shut,” Gupta said in a telephone interview. “There are no
dispatches happening.”  Gulf Oil may soon have to cut production as stocks swell,
Pramanik said.  Premier Explosives supplies to Coal India, Singareni
Collieries Co., iron ore miner  NMDC Ltd. (NMDC)  and manganese miner
 MOIL Ltd. (MOIL)  Transport of explosives requires specialized vehicles
that have fire extinguishers and other safeguards to avert
explosions.  “With the new law, which needs handshakes between security
officials at every district border, the number of vehicles has
to increase,” Gulf Oil’s Pramanik said. “And this can’t happen
overnight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at   jrogers73@bloomberg.net  