-- Commercial Paper Market Falls to Least in Six Months, Fed Says
-- B y   J o h n   P a r r y
-- 2013-05-09T15:23:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/commercial-paper-market-falls-to-least-in-six-months-fed-says.html
The market for corporate borrowing
through  commercial paper  contracted to the lowest level in
almost six months, led by a decline in issuance from financial
institutions.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S. commercial paper
fell $4.9 billion to $992.5 billion outstanding in the week
ended yesterday, the fourth straight decrease, the  Federal
Reserve  said today on its website. That’s the lowest level since
the market touched $968.6 billion in the week ended Nov. 14 and
the longest stretch of declines since the period ended Feb. 20.  Companies are favoring bonds to obtain longer-term, stable
funding with yields at record lows, in preference to shorter-term financing via IOUs. Demand from money-market funds, among
the biggest buyers of commercial paper, has declined this year.
 Total assets  in the funds have decreased to $2.563 trillion in
the week ended May 1 from $2.716 trillion for the period ended
Jan. 9, according to the  Investment Company Institute .  “The two factors here have been constant for most of 2013,
the decline in money-market mutual fund balances combined with
the terming out of short-term debt into the bond market,”
 Howard Simons , strategist at Bianco Research LLC in Chicago,
wrote in an e-mail. “So long as the engineered rally in
financial assets continues via quantitative easing, both trends
will continue and CP outstanding will decline.”  The  amount issued by U.S.-based banks  fell for a fourth
week, dropping $6.9 billion to $281.2 billion outstanding, the
least since November, while commercial paper sold by  non-U.S.
financial institutions  declined for a second week, decreasing
$1.7 billion to $232.7 billion, according to the Fed.  The U.S. central bank is keeping benchmark  interest rates 
near zero for a fifth year and is undertaking $85 billion in
monthly bond purchases in a bid to stimulate the economy.  Corporations sell commercial paper, typically maturing in
270 days or less, to fund everyday activities such as rent and
salaries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Parry  in  New York  at 
 jparry5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  