-- Companies Say Decades-Old National-Security Policies Hurt Sales
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D w o s k i n
-- 2013-05-09T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/companies-say-decades-old-national-security-policies-hurt-sales.html
Rob Smith’s Pennsylvania company,
 Acutec Precision Machining Inc. , makes inch-long fasteners that
are used in the wings of airplanes. In 2006 he tried selling
them abroad for the first time.  The deal with an English company was worth a total of $897,
and it could have landed him in jail. It turned out that
unbeknownst to Smith, the buyer planned to sell the fasteners to
the Romanian  air force , Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its
May 13 issue.  By failing to report that to the U.S. government, Smith
violated the 1976 Arms Export Control Act, which strictly
controls sales of even the tiniest parts used in military
equipment. Two years and $10,000 in legal fees later, Smith
finally convinced officials that Acutec had meant no harm.  “It was a stunner,” he says. “The U.S. government is
treating the simplest nuts and brackets as if they were space-age software.”  The U.S. Department of State requires manufacturers to get
a license every time they want to export an item covered by the
U.S.  Munitions List .  Hundreds of thousands of items are covered: Bolts, screws,
seat belts, and toilet covers are lumped together with missile
launchers and jet fighters.  When it comes to  airplanes , “any component, part,
accessory, attachment, and associated equipment” is subject to
the rules, the list states.  Paperwork Delays  Assembling the required paperwork for a sale, and getting
the State Department to approve it, can take a month and costs
$2,250 in upfront licensing fees.  For manufacturers selling to foreign military customers, or
to overseas suppliers who themselves have foreign military
customers, there are more hoops to jump through: Every time the
customer wants to buy a replacement part or sell a U.S.-made
part to another foreign government, the U.S. manufacturer has to
go back to the State Department and ask for permission again.  Cutting corners can bring a prison sentence of as long as
10 years and criminal fines of as much as $1 million.  Back in the 1970s and ’80s the rules made sense. The U.S.
had a near monopoly on aerospace parts and could use the export
system to keep its adversaries in check, says Remy Nathan, a
vice president at the Aerospace Industries Association, based in
Arlington, Virginia.  “The Iranians had F-14s that we sold them before the fall
of the shah” in 1979, says Nathan. “By controlling the parts,
we made absolutely sure that the Iranians had no way of getting
the spare parts they needed to keep them in the air.”  Competitors Worldwide  Nowadays, the rules can backfire.  U.S. companies have competitors all over the world, many in
countries far more easygoing about selling to foreigners. That
means it’s often easier for U.S. allies to take their business
elsewhere.  Some foreign manufacturers even advertise their products as
free of U.S. content. “Eurocopter is saying, ‘Why should I go
through all this for a $35 widget?’ ” says Acutec’s Smith.  Now the Obama administration is putting the finishing
touches on rules to make it easier -- or at least less
frustrating -- for U.S. companies to sell parts to 36 designated
U.S. allies by revamping the “antiquated, Cold War system,”
says Brian Nilsson, the White House’s director of
nonproliferation.  Still, sorting out what counts as proliferation has been
complicated. Officials at three agencies have haggled for three
years over just what makes a part sensitive.  Airplane Headlight  Take an airplane headlight. “Does it reflect in the middle
of the night in a way that makes it unique for war?” asks
Michael Laychak, director for licensing at the  Department of
Defense .  Congress has signed off on some of the proposed rules --
tiny components for airplanes will be rid of the old
restrictions by October -- and the White House wants lawmakers
to agree to its other changes by the end of the year. The plan
is to cut the number of licenses State has to approve every year
to 40,000 from about 80,000.  The overhaul doesn’t mean companies shipping tiny parts
overseas won’t have to fill out some paperwork: The  Department
of Commerce  will still have to sign off on an export request to
be sure a manufacturer isn’t shipping something to countries
that aren’t U.S. allies.  Smith says the changes are a good start.  “It’s going to take years to undo,” he says. “We always
joke that it takes five years to get a customer in this
industry. There’s no instantaneous fix.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dwoskin in Washington at 
 edwoskin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wes Kosova at 
 wkosova@bloomberg.net  