-- Consumer Credit Growth Driving Stocks, Deutsche Bank Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-05-09T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/consumer-credit-growth-driving-stocks-deutsche-bank-says.html
Growing U.S. consumer borrowing
signals the economy is healing and will sustain a rally in
global stocks, sending the benchmark  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
to fresh records, according to the co-chief investment officer
at Deutsche Bank AG’s asset-management unit.  Increasing consumer demand in the U.S., driven in part by
greater access to credit, is helping to create a “self-sustained” advance in equities that will push the  S&P 500  up
about 8 percent by the end of 2013, Asoka Woehrmann, who helps
oversee about 500 billion euros ($655 billion) at Deutsche Asset
& Wealth Management, said in an interview in Frankfurt on May 7.  U.S.  consumer credit  climbed by $7.97 billion in March
after an $18.6 billion jump in February that was the biggest
gain since May 2012, Federal Reserve figures showed May 7. The
nation’s rising home prices are enabling households to repair
finances, putting them in a position to take advantage of low
borrowing costs for purchases such as new cars.  “The consumer-credit momentum is going to go up after six
years and it is very, very encouraging,” Woehrmann said.
“Consumer-driven demand is going to kick in to the  U.S.
economy . This is the first time that I have this conviction.”  The S&P 500 will increase to 1,760 by the end of the year
after climbing to a record of 1,625.96 on May 7, according to
Woehrmann. He forecast that the Stoxx Europe 600 Index will rise
to 330, an 8.7 percent advance from yesterday’s close, in the
same period.  Germany ’s DAX Index will rise to 9,200, a 12
percent rally, he said.  Mortgage Rates  Residential real-estate prices increased 9.3 percent in
February, the most since May 2006, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 U.S. cities. The  average
rate  on a 30-year fixed mortgage dropped for a seventh straight
week in the period ended May 3, falling to 3.59 percent.  Companies providing consumer financing and credit cards are
“doing better and better,” according to Woehrmann. Deutsche
Asset & Wealth is looking closely at small and mid-size
financial companies in the U.S., he said, while declining to
identify specific stocks he is buying.  In another bullish sign for equities, appetite among  hedge
funds  to invest in asset-backed securities such as
collateralized loan obligations, or CLOs, is also increasing,
Woehrmann said.  “There is more and more demand for credit tranches that we
thought people wouldn’t have an interest in again,” Woehrmann
said. “I’m not recommending investors buy these things, but I
am observing this.”  CLO Losses  The likelihood of senior tranches of European CLOs
incurring principal losses is “remote,” according to a report
this week from Moody’s Investors Service. Default events or
principal losses have not happened to Moody’s-rated European
CLOs since 1999, the rating company said.  “ABS’s, covered bonds, these are the backbone of the
financial markets and lending, especially in the real estate
market,” Woehrmann said. “These things are recovering. It is
the power of zero-interest-rate policies. We are coming more and
more out of the crisis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in  Frankfurt  at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  