-- Contract Spending by U.S. Down Most Since ’97: BGOV Study
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2013-05-09T00:04:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/contract-spending-by-u-s-down-most-since-97-bgov-study.html
U.S. government spending on contracts
fell 3.1 percent last year, the biggest one-year decline since
1997, according to a Bloomberg Government study.  Contractors such as armored vehicle-maker  Oshkosh Corp. (OSK) 
suffered the most as the Iraq war ended and troops continued to
withdraw from Afghanistan, according to the report ranking the
top 200 federal suppliers.  Booz Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH) , a
top cybersecurity vendor, was among the companies that advanced.  The slip in awards underscores the shifting landscape for
contractors, which are now dealing with the added pressure of
automatic spending cuts known as sequestration. The government
spent $516 billion on contracts in fiscal 2012, compared with
$533 billion a year earlier, according to the study.  “After a decade of gains for contractors, this has become
a decade of retrenchment,” said Brian Friel, an analyst at
Bloomberg Industries in  Washington  and lead author of the study.
“Even before sequestration, these companies started
repositioning themselves for tighter federal budgets and limited
areas of growth.”  The automatic cuts, which began March 1, will reduce
budgets by as much as $1.2 trillion over nine years if President
 Barack Obama  and U.S. lawmakers fail to agree on a broader
deficit-reduction strategy.  Last year’s decline compares with a 5.5 percent drop in
fiscal 1997, when contract spending fell $12 billion from the
previous year to $203 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That drop came after agreements between President
Bill Clinton and then-House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  to reduce the
deficit. The Cold War’s end also eroded support for increased
military spending.  Boeing Gains  The BGOV200 study published today ranks the leading
contractors by their unclassified awards from government
agencies in the year that ended Sept. 30. The study counts only
prime contracts, which are awarded directly from an agency.  Among the top 10 contractors, Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA) 
gained the most. Its awards jumped 37 percent to $30.3 billion
in fiscal 2012 from the prior year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The increase for Boeing, which kept its No. 2 ranking
behind Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , was
driven by a $4.2 billion order for F-15 jets from Saudi Arabia.
The agreement counts as a U.S. contract because the Pentagon
manages such foreign arms sales.  “In this time of the current downturn in U.S.  defense
spending , the strength of defense firms will be among those that
can secure international sales,” Dan Beck, a Boeing spokesman,
said in a March phone interview.  Weathering Cuts  Lockheed’s awards fell 14 percent to $36.9 billion in
fiscal 2012 from the previous year.  The top 10 federal contractors, a group that includes No. 3
 General Dynamics Corp. (GD) , based in Falls Church, Virginia, and No.
4  Raytheon Co. (RTN) , based in Waltham, Massachusetts, defended their
turf last year. The top 10 had 28 percent of the total spending
on contracts, matching their market share the previous year.  “Most of the top defense prime contractors have diverse
contract portfolios across the military services and civilian
agencies, enabling them to weather cuts in particular
programs,” Bloomberg’s Friel said.  There was less stability in the lower tiers of government
suppliers. Houston-based  KBR Inc. (KBR) , which managed dining halls
and handled logistics for troops in Iraq, fell in the rankings
the most, to No. 125 from No. 30.  Oshkosh, based in Oshkosh,  Wisconsin , plunged to the 44th
spot from No. 11 in fiscal 2011. Lisle, Illinois-based  Navistar
International Corp. (NAV) , also a military truck maker, dropped to No.
58 from No. 43.  Space Vehicles  Many of the companies that climbed the rankings benefited
from areas less affected by cuts to contract spending. Those
sectors include space vehicles, drones, health-care information
technology and cybersecurity, according to the study.  General Atomics, the San Diego-based maker of the Reaper
drone, rose four spots to No. 28.  CGI Group Inc. (GIB) , a health
information technology company based in  Montreal , advanced 10
places to No. 67.  McLean, Virginia-based Booz Allen, identified last year by
Bloomberg Government as the top Defense Department cybersecurity
provider, increased its awards to $4 billion from $3.9 billion
the prior year. It rose to 13th in the ranking from 16th.  Two new entrants to the BGOV200 benefited from new
opportunities at the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration. The agency retired the shuttle program in 2011
and turned to private companies for cargo deliveries to the
International Space Station.  Space Explorations Technologies Corp., known as SpaceX and
led by billionaire Elon Musk, debuted at No. 155 after becoming
the first company to dock a commercial craft at the station last
year.  The Hawthorne, California-based company has a $1.6 billion
contract for cargo deliveries to the station. Dulles, Virginia-based  Orbital Sciences Corp. (ORB) , ranked 93rd, has a similar deal
valued at $1.9 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  