-- Cypriot Foreign Minister Says Island Nation Became ‘Experiment’
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-05-09T22:13:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/cypriot-foreign-minister-says-island-nation-became-experiment-.html
Cyprus’ bailout package was a
“warning” and the country was turned into an experiment on how
to handle too-big-to-fail banks, said Cypriot Foreign Minister
Ioannis Kasoulides.  Cyprus “was allowed to serve as an experiment, answering
the biggest question -- what to do about banks too big to
fail?” Kasoulides said today at the  Brookings Institution  in
Washington.  “The opportunity was offered for Cyprus to give the
warning and the example for the rest,” he said.
“Unfortunately, it didn’t permit us to re-adjust all the
wrongdoings of our economy, let’s say within a three-year
period, instead of this brutal and overnight collapse of our
banking system.”  European governments and the  International Monetary Fund 
agreed in March to loan Cyprus 10 billion euros ($13 billion) as
long as the country liquidated its second-largest bank and
forced losses on bank bondholders and deposits of more than
100,000 euros. The country’s parliament rejected an earlier plan
that would have also imposed a levy on deposits of less than
100,000 euros.  In the aftermath, the nation’s economy is expected to
struggle to recover. Cyprus Central Bank Governor Panicos Demetriades said today in Nicosia that the Cypriot economy will
shrink 8.7 percent this year, as forecast by the European
Commission.  The Mediterranean island was the fifth euro-zone country to
tap international aid in the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  Kasoulides said the nation’s private sector will serve as
an engine for growth going forward, and that Cyprus will end
with a “much better and healthier” banking and financial
system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in  Washington  at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  