-- Debt-Limit Debate Begins With Bill Exempting Payments
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2013-05-09T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/debt-limit-debate-begins-with-bill-exempting-payments.html
House Republicans, seeking to insulate
themselves from criticism that they would let the U.S. default
on its  debt , are set to consider a measure to exempt federal
payments to creditors from a borrowing-limit cap.  The House is scheduled to vote today on the bill, which has
almost no chance of advancing in the Democratic-led Senate and
faces a veto threat from President  Barack Obama  if enacted.  Still, the plan signals the start of a protracted debate
over the nation’s borrowing authority. The reason for the
measure -- referred to as a debt-prioritization bill -- is
simple: House Republicans won’t agree to a debt ceiling increase
later this year without equal spending cuts. That could lead to
a months-long standoff with Obama and Senate Democrats.  “Based on the way the debt ceiling and a lot of other
financial issues have been handled over the course of the last
four to five years, probably it’s inevitable we get to that
point,” Representative  Frank Lucas , an Oklahoma Republican,
said in an interview.  That means, Lucas said, that Republicans see the
legislation to prioritize debt payments as necessary if Congress
can’t strike an agreement on the debt ceiling.  The House bill would ensure that U.S. government
bondholders will continue to be paid and that Social Security
benefits won’t be interrupted if a stand-off over the nation’s
debt limit causes a cash crunch. The measure leaves it up to the
Obama administration to decide which of the government’s other
bills to pay using incoming  tax revenue .  ‘Pay China’  Democrats oppose the legislation, saying it’s political
theater and would be irresponsible to decide to pay foreign
creditors before Americans who need their government checks.  “I call it the ‘pay-China-first’ bill, because what it
really means is we’ll pay China before we’ll pay veterans,
before we’ll pay seniors, before we’ll pay contractors,”
Maryland Representative  Steny Hoyer , the No. 2 House Democrat,
told reporters this week. “We’ll pay China first.”  Republicans maintain that they’re thinking ahead about
handling the debt ceiling and the Senate would be wrong not even
to consider the measure.  “The Senate would be opting for another showdown, another
unnecessary round of uncertainty if they weren’t to take this
bill up,” said Representative  Kevin Brady , a Texas Republican.
“It makes sense to do this, unless, you want to flirt with
default, which we don’t.  Why not take it off the table?”  Limit Suspended  Congress voted at the end of January to suspend the
nation’s  $16.4 trillion  debt limit until May 19, temporarily
removing the risk of a default. When the ceiling is restored May
19, it will be increased to reflect the government’s borrowing
during the past few months.  The Treasury Department can ward off a default for several
months beyond May by shifting money among government accounts.
The latest estimates are the limit would be reached in
September.  “Our goal here is to not default on our debt. Our goal
here is to get ourselves on a sustainable path from a fiscal
standpoint,” House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican ,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview May 7. “Doing a debt
prioritization bill makes it clear to our bondholders that we’re
going to meet our obligation.”  The bill, H.R. 807, would exempt from the limit federal
payments on the principal and interest owed to bondholders. That
would help ensure the government wouldn’t default on those
payments even if incoming tax revenue on any given day wasn’t
enough to cover the obligations.  Social Security  To ensure that Social Security benefit checks aren’t
interrupted, the measure would exempt interest payments to the
Social Security trust fund. It also would require the Treasury
to provide a weekly report to Congress accounting for all the
exempted payments made.  The Obama administration opposes the Republican measure,
saying it masks the real issue.  Missing any of the government’s bills, regardless of who is
owed, would be “another form of default -- you’re just choosing
what to default on,” Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew told the
House Budget Committee last month.  Boehner said the bill takes a fair approach.  “Those who have loaned us money, like in any other
proceeding, if you will, court proceeding, the bondholders
usually get paid first. Same thing,” Boehner said in the
Bloomberg Television interview.  Extract Cuts  While Obama has said he won’t agree to conditions placed on
a debt limit increase, Republicans say they’re determined to
extract federal spending cuts and changes to programs such as
Medicare, Medicaid and  Social Security . House Republicans will
meet May 15 to discuss their strategy on the debt limit once
Treasury makes its formal request.  Republican leaders are also weighing whether to spell out
the steps and timing of a tax-code rewrite as a trigger for
raising the borrowing limit. Their goal is to curb tax breaks
and use the resulting revenue to lower rates.  They are considering a strategy to act early, with
legislation that would authorize a debt-limit increase on their
preferred terms to increase pressure on the White House.  Still, the refusal by House Republicans to consider tax
increases, even in return for changes to Medicare and Social
Security spending, may set up another fiscal showdown.  In 2011, lawmakers fought for months over raising the
nation’s debt limit. Obama signed a debt increase measure into
law on Aug. 2, 2011, the day the Treasury Department warned that
U.S. borrowing authority would expire.  2011 Debate  The bitter negotiations led to the Budget Control Act of
2011, which set discretionary spending caps for 10 years and
created a process that resulted in the automatic spending cuts
known as sequestration. The cuts started in March.  Credit markets weren’t rattled by the 2011 standoff, as
yields on 10-year Treasury notes declined to 2.61 percent on
Aug. 2 from 3.18 percent on July 1, 2011, and continued to fall
to 1.88 percent at year-end.  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the U.S. credit rating for the
first time on Aug. 5, 2011, citing the partisan wrangling over
the debt limit. The stock market reacted, with the benchmark
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  falling 16.8 percent between July
22, when talks on a broad agreement faltered, and Aug. 8, the
first trading day after the rating downgrade.  Stocks in the U.S. have since rebounded, with the  S&P 500 
 gaining almost 46 percent  from Aug. 8, 2011, through yesterday.
Yields on 10-year Treasuries were 1.77 percent as of yesterday
in  New York .  The debt limit has been raised periodically since its
creation in 1917, with Congress increasing or revising it 79
times, including 49 times under Republican presidents, since
1960.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  