-- Dendreon Falls as Provenge Sales Miss Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2013-05-09T15:20:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/dendreon-falls-as-provenge-sales-miss-analysts-estimates.html
Dendreon Corp. (DNDN) , maker of the prostate
cancer drug Provenge, fell the most in nine months after the
company failed to meet analysts’ revenue estimates.  Dendreon  dropped  15 percent to $4.04 at 10:45 a.m.  New York 
time after tumbling 17 percent in its biggest intraday drop
since July 31. It fell 46 percent in the 12 months before today.  First-quarter revenue fell 18 percent to $67.6 million, the
Seattle-based company said in a statement today. Analysts
expected sales of $79.7 million, the average of 19 estimates in
a Bloomberg survey. Provenge, Dendreon’s only product, began
facing competition from Johnson & Johnson’s Zytiga in December.  “I am not satisfied with these results,” John Johnson,
Dendreon’s president and chief executive officer, said on a
conference call today with analysts and investors.  Second quarter sales will grow to the “mid-70s range,”
and the fourth quarter will be Dendreon’s strongest, he said.  Dendreon said its  net loss  for the first quarter narrowed
to $72 million, or 48 cents a share, from $103.9 million, or 70
cents, a year earlier.  Provenge was approved in April 2010 as the first therapy in
the U.S. that trains the body’s immune system to attack cancer
cells as if they were a virus. The treatment, which costs
$93,000, was cleared for patients with advanced cases of the
disease after the company’s three-year effort to persuade the
 Food and Drug Administration  to back the medicine.  The first television commercial for Provenge ran March 7 as
part of a direct-to-consumer advertising campaign. Dendreon said
it plans to spend $5 million each quarter on the effort.  New Provenge accounts increased 33 percent in the first
quarter bringing the total number of accounts that have infused
to 835, the company said. Dendreon is focusing on large
accounts, which are in community oncology and urology and some
academic centers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  