-- Deutsche Bank Sues Urbi for $61 Million Over Loans
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-05-09T19:33:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/deutsche-bank-sues-urbi-for-61-million-over-loans.html
(Corrects amounts of losses and transfers claimed by
Barclays in third and eighth paragraphs.)  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  sued Mexican real-estate developer Urbi Desarrollos Urbanos SAB in  New York  for
$61.1 million for defaulting on loans, while a Barclays Plc unit
sued homebuilder Desarrolladora Homex SAB over a swaps
agreement.  Deutsche Bank made loans valued at $50 million and $55
million to Mexicali-based Urbi, according to a complaint filed
yesterday in New York State  Supreme Court  in  Manhattan . In
April, Urbi didn’t make a $3 million payment on the $55 million
loan and also failed to pay $1.55 million in interest on the two
loans, Deutsche Bank said.  Barclays today sued Culiacan, Mexico-based Homex in the
same court for an alleged breach of a swaps and derivatives
agreement. Barclays said it incurred losses of 536 million pesos
($44.65 million) as a result of the default. Last week, Credit
Suisse Group AG sued Homex,  Mexico ’s biggest homebuilder by
revenue, seeking $26.7 million over a canceled derivatives
transaction.  Mexican homebuilders have struggled to prevent declines in
their cash reserves as the government shifts subsidies to
promote more capital-intensive apartment construction in cities,
instead of individual homes in commuter towns. Home foreclosures
in Mexico more than doubled last year to a record 43,853.  Cash Falls  Urbi’s  cash  and cash equivalents fell 95 percent in the
first quarter from the previous quarter. The company, the
biggest Mexican builder by the number of homes, has hired
Rothschild to advise it on a possible restructuring. Urbi was
sued in New York last month by Credit Suisse and Barclays over
financial derivatives.  David Aguilar, a spokesman for Urbi, declined to comment on
the Deutsche Bank suit, saying in a phone interview that the
company hasn’t seen the complaint.  Deutsche Bank also sued the guarantors of the Urbi loans
and promissory notes, seeking $46.8 million in damages. The
Frankfurt-based bank said that because of the default, it
terminated a swap agreement with Urbi involving interest-rate
and foreign-exchange option transactions. Deutsche Bank said it
told Urbi the developer owed $37.7 million on the agreement.  Barclays, in the complaint filed today, claimed Homex
failed to make required transfers of $1.7 million to the bank in
April as collateral to cover potential losses, triggering the
default. London-based Barclays said Homex was obligated to pay
536.6 million pesos for the early termination of the contract.  Marena Rubio, a spokeswoman for Homex, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the suit.  The Urbi case is Deutsche Bank AG v.  Urbi Desarrollos
Urbanos SAB (URBI*) , 651676/2013; the Homex case is Barclays Bank Mexico
v. Desarrolladora Homex, 651681/2013; Supreme Court of the State
of New York, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan at
   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  