-- Diageo Pins Hopes on Sorbet Smirnoff Along With ‘Peaty’ Whisky
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-05-09T15:10:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/diageo-pins-hopes-on-sorbet-smirnoff-along-with-peaty-whisky.html
Diageo Plc (DGE) , the world’s biggest
distiller, is concentrating on novel variants of existing
brands, such as Smirnoff lemon sorbet flavored vodka, as it
seeks to bolster sales growth through new products.  Tweaked versions of established brands such as Johnnie
Walker scotch and Guinness stout, along with new drinks, are
“what delivers efficient growth,” Syl Saller, the London-based company’s global innovation director, said today in
an interview.  Diageo and  competitors  are focusing on gaining business by
targeting new products that appeal to specific groups, from
women to consumers in the emerging middle classes. More than 50
percent of Diageo’s sales growth has come from new products each
year for the last five years, Saller said, and the distiller is
looking to continue that pace.  “We have the luxury of having such a broad range of brands
that we start from looking at the consumer occasion and what’s
missing, and work backwards,” Saller said. “We’ve got
incredibly iconic brands. Why would you not use that as the
first place to go?”  While new sways of old favorites are the main driver of
Diageo’s innovation growth, the company says it’s very
discerning about which products reach consumers. It developed
Johnnie Walker Double Black, a “peatier” version of Johnnie
Walker Black, and rolled it out first to airports before
tempting national markets including the U.K.  Double Black  The key is to target new customers and make sure the whisky
appeals to current Johnnie Walker drinkers without harming
sales, according to Saller. A 70 centiliter bottle of  Double
Black  costs 33.85 pounds ($52.50) on thewhiskyexchange.com,
while Black Label costs 24.75 pounds.  “We don’t worry about hurting our brands,” she said.
“It’s the inverse -- what we think about is what will add to
the brand.”  Innovation now delivers about 11 percent of Diageo’s
revenue, according to a  presentation  by Saller. Last year, the
maker of Smirnoff vodka had 10.7 billion pounds in  sales .  The company solicits ideas for new drinks and shares them
among regions, helping drive growth in emerging economies as
well as the tougher developed markets of  Europe  and the U.S.,
she said. Diageo introduces about 100 new products a year and
the  North America  is the  largest market  for innovation.  Diageo is also creating completely new products to appeal
to changing consumer tastes, including Eva wine coolers,
targeting Thai women, as well as Naked Turtle white rum in the
U.S. and Shark Tooth rum in  Russia . Research efforts include
studying the structure of ice crystals for frozen alcoholic
drinks.  Still, not every consumer is looking for something new,
Saller said. “We don’t assume we have to have innovation on
every brand. We don’t have a target, but I just want innovation
to be embedded in the way Diageo operates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  