-- Dish Is Said to Secure Jefferies to Help Finance Sprint Deal
-- B y   J o d i   X u ,   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-05-10T20:11:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/dish-said-to-secure-jefferies-to-help-finance-sprint-deal-1-.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  lined up Jefferies
Group LLC to help it finance its $25.5 billion bid for  Sprint
Nextel Corp. (S)  as it tries to convince the company its offer is
better than  SoftBank Corp. (9984) ’s, people with knowledge of the
matter said.  Dish added Jefferies in an effort to win over Sprint’s
 board , which has so far held off on granting Dish access to its
books amid concerns about funding, said the people, who asked
not to be identified because the process is private. Sprint’s
board also is concerned about the debt that would be placed on
the merged company, and has doubts about Dish’s estimate of $11
billion in cost savings, people familiar with the situation said
this week.  Adding a second bank may help Dish make its case that its
offer is likely to be superior to SoftBank’s $20.1 billion bid
for a majority stake in Sprint. Jefferies and Barclays Plc,
which is advising Dish and has provided a letter saying it’s
confident it can help raise the necessary financing, will seek
out one or two more banks to be part of an estimated $9.3
billion package, the people said.  Richard Khaleel, a spokesman for Jefferies, declined to
comment on whether or not the bank is involved with Dish’s
financing. A spokesman for Dish declined to comment.  Scott Sloat , a spokesman for Sprint, declined to comment on Dish’s
financing.  ‘Only Thing’  Dish Chairman  Charlie Ergen , who’s challenging SoftBank for
control of the third-largest U.S. wireless carrier to bolster
his pay-TV empire with mobile capability, has said he’ll provide
committed financing if Sprint makes it clear that it will engage
with him once the financing has been secured.  “When they look us in the eye and say, ‘We will give you
access to the books because we believe you potentially will lead
to a superior offer and that the only thing left - and the only
thing that’s left is your committed financing,’ then we’ll give
them the committed financing,” he said yesterday on a
conference call.  Dish previously told Sprint it wouldn’t provide committed
financing until it gains access to the financial information,
people familiar with the matter said last week.  Sprint shares were little changed at $7.36 at the close in
 New York  today. They have climbed 30 percent this year, putting
them above the price offered by SoftBank or Dish, suggesting
that investors are expecting a bidding war.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jodi Xu in New York at 
 jxu205@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  