-- Distress Call From Besieged Envoy Recounted to Congress
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-05-09T16:57:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/distress-call-from-besieged-envoy-recounted-to-congress.html
The No. 2 U.S. diplomat in Libya was
watching television at home in Tripoli the night of Sept. 11
when he missed a call from his boss, Ambassador Chris Stevens.  “Greg, we’re under attack!” Stevens said from the U.S.
mission in Benghazi, when his deputy, Gregory Hicks, called
back. Then their connection was cut off.  Soon after, Stevens was trapped in smoke from a fire set by
militants inside the mission and went missing. Hicks began a
frantic, all-night effort to mobilize a rescue, speaking by
phone with Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  before learning
from Libya’s prime minister that Stevens was dead.  That account of the Benghazi attack emerged from a House
hearing yesterday on the Obama administration’s handling of an
incident that remains a political flash point in Washington
eight months after the killings of Stevens and three other
Americans.  While the hearing by the House Oversight and Government
Reform Committee yielded little new information on the attack,
the almost six-hour session underscored how the Benghazi affair
has opened a partisan divide.  Republicans, claiming a cover-up, said they’re determined
to continue their probe into whether President  Barack Obama ’s
administration failed to provide adequate security in Benghazi
and misled the public about the nature of the attack.  The committee chairman, Republican Representative  Darrell Issa  of  California , said yesterday’s testimony “undermines the
Obama administration’s assertion that there are no more
questions left to answer about Benghazi.”  Boehner’s Vow  House Speaker John Boehner today vowed that “more hearings
and more information” are to come. The  Ohio Republican  asked
Obama to release e-mails between the White House and State
Department that Boehner said showed officials knew the attack
was initiated by terrorists before the administration
erroneously portrayed it as growing out of a spontaneous
demonstration.  Secretary of State  John Kerry , who succeeded Clinton this
year, told reporters today in  Rome  that questions about Benghazi
“will be answered, will be put to bed” and that appropriate
steps will be taken “if there’s any culpability in any area.”
He said he was awaiting a report on the issue.  The House committee’s top Democrat, Representative  Elijah Cummings  of  Maryland , said yesterday’s hearing “was another
sorry example of Republicans promising explosive new facts but
delivering only a press spectacle.”  For all the partisan sniping, the hearing  -- with Hicks as
its star witness -- provided some new details on how officials
responded on the night of the attack and in its immediate
aftermath.  ‘Saddest’ Call  Clinton called Hicks at 2 a.m. Tripoli time, or about four
hours after the attack began, to discuss evacuation plans and
the search for Stevens, who couldn’t be located, Hicks said.  An hour later, Hicks said, the Libyan prime minister called
him to say Stevens was dead.  “I think it is the saddest phone call I have ever had in
my life,” Hicks told the committee.  Fearing an attack on the Tripoli embassy would follow,
Hicks said he began planning for its evacuation after helping to
assemble a response team to go to Benghazi. His staff began
destroying equipment for classified communications, even
smashing hard drives with an ax, he said.  Several phone calls made by unknown people on a phone used
by Stevens offered Hicks and his staff the chance to come
retrieve the ambassador at a hospital controlled by militants,
Hicks said.  Ambush Worries  “We suspected that we were being baited into a trap, and
so we did not want to go send our people into an ambush,” Hicks
said. The staff were sent instead to a Central Intelligence
Agency annex in Benghazi that later came under mortar attack.  Besides Stevens, the Americans killed in the attack were
Sean Smith, a Foreign Service information officer, and Tyrone S.
Woods and Glen A. Doherty, two former Navy SEALs working as
security personnel.  Hicks told the committee that his plea for troops to help
defend the besieged Benghazi mission was rejected and that he
knew all along that terrorists were behind the attacks.  Hicks said he tried in vain to get fighter jets to fly over
Benghazi in an effort to scare off the attackers. He also said
four U.S. special-forces personnel were ordered not to board a
Libyan military transport plane that flew to Benghazi from
Tripoli in the hours after the attack.  Securing Airport  “We wanted to send further reinforcements to Benghazi,”
Hicks said. “People in Benghazi had been fighting all night.
They were tired. They were exhausted. We wanted to make sure the
airport was secure for their withdrawal.”  Pentagon spokesman  George Little  said yesterday the four-man unit was ordered to remain in Tripoli because the mission in
Benghazi had already shifted to evacuation.  “We continue to believe that there was nothing this team
could have done to assist during the second attack in Benghazi
on Sept. 11,” Little told reporters at the Pentagon. “The team
remained in Tripoli and performed admirably.”  The hearing shed little light on two questions that
continue to shadow the Obama administration: why more military
assets weren’t stationed close to Libya before the attack, given
all the intelligence about terrorist threats in the area, and
why the administration was slow to correct its initial
explanation of the attack.  Hicks and two other State Department witnesses were unable
to offer answers to those questions.  ‘Jaw Dropped’  Hicks said in his testimony that he was stunned when  Susan Rice , the U.S. ambassador to the  United Nations , described the
attack on national television days afterward as growing out of a
spontaneous protest over an anti-Islamic video that sparked
demonstrations in  Egypt  and elsewhere.  “My jaw dropped and I was embarrassed,” Hicks said,
adding later, “The YouTube video was a non-event in Libya.”  The administration later corrected the “talking points”
that Rice had used, acknowledging that there was no
demonstration and that militant groups staged the assault.  Hicks told the committee that after he raised questions
about Rice’s televised statements about the attack, he got the
sense from his superiors at the State Department that he
“needed to stop the line of questioning.”  Boehner told reporters at the Capitol today that
administration e-mails showed the White House expunged
references to Islamic terrorism from the talking points even
though it “continues to claim it only made stylistic changes.”  Board Findings  Eric Nordstrom, who served as the regional security officer
at the Tripoli embassy last year, said in written testimony that
an Accountability Review Board appointed by Clinton to review
the Benghazi attack chose to “ignore the role senior department
leadership played before, during and after” the attack.  The review board never formally interviewed Clinton,
although State Department spokesman Patrick Ventrell said
yesterday that the panel did speak with Under Secretary of State
for Management  Patrick Kennedy .  The panel found that the State Department showed “a lack
of proactive leadership and management ability,” although no
government employees were found to have violated their duties.
One resigned and three were relieved of certain duties. None was
fired.  Turned Down  Nordstrom told a congressional committee in October that he
was turned down by the department when he requested extension of
a 16-member security support team that was scheduled to leave
Tripoli in August. Clinton has testified she never was informed
of the request.  Republican committee members mostly stopped short of
attacking Clinton directly yesterday, though Representative
 Jason Chaffetz  of Utah accused her of trying to shift the blame
for lax diplomatic security.  Still, the continuing Republican-led investigation into
Benghazi has political overtones for Clinton, a leading prospect
for the Democratic presidential nomination in 2016.  Some Republicans say that Obama’s administration willfully
misrepresented the events in Benghazi in order to preserve his
national security credentials, burnished by the 2011 capture and
killing of  Osama bin Laden , in the closing months of last year’s
presidential campaign.  “I’ve known it was a cover-up for a long time,”
Republican Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona , his party’s 2008
presidential nominee, said in an interview yesterday. “The
narrative of the presidential campaign was that Osama bin Laden
was dead, al-Qaeda was ‘on the run,’ decimated, and this act
obviously was only from a spontaneous demonstration.”  Defending Clinton  Even before Republicans mentioned her name, Democrats
rushed to Clinton’s defense during yesterday’s hearing,
suggesting she was being unfairly targeted.  “I find it truly disturbing and very unfortunate that when
Americans come under attack, the first thing some did in this
country was attack Americans, attack the military, attack the
president, attack the State Department, attack the former
senator from the great state of  New York , former Secretary of
State Hillary Clinton,” said Representative  Carolyn Maloney , a
New York Democrat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  