-- Dominican Republic Seeks $487 Million Stimulus
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-05-09T01:46:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/dominican-republic-seeks-487-million-stimulus-as-growth-slows.html
(Corrects to remove GDP growth reference in second graph.)  The Dominican Republic said it will
free up 20 billion pesos ($487 million) to stimulate growth by
lowering  reserve requirements  and expanding loans to companies
and consumers in the Caribbean’s largest economy.  Funds will help boost lending in the productive sector and
facilitate expansion of small and medium-sized business, the
central bank said in a  statement  published on its website.
Credit will also be used to provide more affordable housing and
consumer loans in the $57 billion economy.  Economic growth in the Dominican Republic is forecast to
slow to about 3 percent this year from 3.9 in 2012, which was
its slowest pace in three years. Other Caribbean economies, such
as Jamaica and Grenada, contracted in the fourth quarter of last
year as the ratio of debt to gross domestic product in both
nations soared to more than 100 percent.  “Economic growth in the first quarter was very, very
low,” said Bernardo Fuentes, an economist at Santo Domingo-based consulting firm Economi-K SA, in a phone interview.  The  Dominican Republic ’s economy slowed last year after
growing at an average of 7 percent since 2004. Spending prior to
the May presidential elections drove the fiscal deficit to as
much as 8 percent of GDP last year, according to the  Economy
Ministry . A series of tax changes, including a value-added tax
increase to 18 percent from 16 percent, went into effect this
year to reduce the deficit. The Dominican Republic also sold $1
billion in foreign bonds on April 11 to fund financing gaps.  “I think part of the slowdown is due to less consumption
due to the  tax reform ,” Fuentes said. “Slower economic
activity has been a result of less spending, which has been more
aggressive than the central bank expected.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Williams in  San Jose ,  Costa Rica  at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  