-- Dubai Group Agrees $6 Billion Debt Deal With Bank Committees
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f ,   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i   a n d   S a m u e l   P o t t e r
-- 2013-05-09T12:13:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/dubai-group-agrees-6-billion-debt-accord-with-lender-committees.html
Dubai Group LLC, an investment company
owned by the emirate’s ruler, agreed on final terms to
restructure $6 billion of debt with its main lenders, helping
extend a rally in the shares of the sheikhdom’s biggest bank.  The lenders “will need to formally agree the terms with
their internal credit committees,” Dubai Group said in a
statement, without providing financial details. Creditors will
have representation on the company’s board, which will be
independent from parent Dubai Holding LLC, after the
restructuring is complete, two people familiar with the matter
said, asking not to be identified because the matter is private.  Shares of Emirates NBD PJSC and the city’s  credit risk  this
week returned to levels not seen since late 2008, the onset of
the global credit crisis, after state-linked companies paid or
refinanced about $4.65 billion of debt since last year. Economic
growth in the emirate, which suffered one of the world’s worst
property crashes during the crisis, is picking up amid a pick up
in tourism, real estate and trade.  An agreement “will lower the uncertainty of how much
provision banks need to take against this exposure,” Shabbir Malik, a Dubai-based analyst at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, said by
phone today. “Any conclusion is positive to the industry
because they’d know the haircut they need to take, and will help
investor confidence in Dubai and its banks.”  Shares Surge  After the completion of the restructuring, claims of bank
creditors will rank above those of related parties, who are owed
an additional $4 billion by Dubai Group, it said today. The
terms were agreed with committees representing the lenders.  Emirates NBD, also the United Arab Emirates’ second-biggest
bank, set aside 54 percent of the value of Dubai Group’s loans,
or 2.51 billion dirhams, to cover for losses as a result of the
debt restructuring, it said in January. The bank’s  shares  gained
4.3 percent to 5.39 dirhams, the highest since November 2008, at
the close in Dubai, taking this year’s surge to 89 percent.  “Exposure to government-related entities have been a huge
overhang on the banking sector, specifically Emirates NBD, so
any conclusion to or clarity on them is very positive,” Amer Khan, Dubai-based fund manager at Shuaa Asset Management, said
in an e-mail today.  Restructuring Terms  David Smoot, chief executive officer of Dubai International
Capital LLC, won’t expand his role to manage assets of Dubai
Group as was proposed earlier this year, two people familiar
with the matter said today.  Last year, Dubai Group, which has about 35 lenders,
proposed paying banks interest of 1 percent to 2.5 percent on
the restructured loans, with full repayment of principal over 12
years, three bankers familiar with the deal said in April 2012.
Secured creditors would be repaid in three years, and partially
secured and unsecured loans in 12 years, with additional
interest provided at the end of the term, they said.  Repayment Pledges  Four lenders, including Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
and Standard Bank Group Ltd., began arbitration against the
group in 2012 as they were dissatisfied with the restructuring
terms and the progress. The banks agreed to accept 18.5 cents to
the dollar for their loans immediately instead of waiting 12
years to receive full repayment, a banker familiar with the
talks said in January.  Successful debt restructurings spurred investor interest in
Dubai assets in the past year as policy makers pledged to meet
obligations. Dubai will do “whatever we have to do” to repay
its debts, Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed Al Maktoum, head of the
emirate’s Supreme Fiscal Committee, said in a May 7 interview.  The emirate’s five-year credit default swaps fell to 187 on
May 7, the lowest since at least September 2008, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market. The contracts, which were at 195 today, peaked above 900
in February 2009.  Dubai World  Dubai’s 5.591 percent 2021 bonds yielded 3.91 percent at 4
p.m. in Dubai, down 115 basis points, or 1.15 percentage points,
in the last 12 months, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Dubai World Corp., one of the sheikhdom’s three main
holding companies, roiled global markets in November 2009 by
asking creditors for a debt standstill on about $25 billion.
That led Dubai to seek a $20 billion lifeline from its wealthier
neighbor Abu Dhabi, the U.A.E. central bank and lenders in the
capital. Dubai World reached a deal in March 2011 with about 80
banks to repay about $15 billion of loans.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net ;
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net ;
Samuel Potter in Dubai at 
 spotter33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  