-- DuPont Considers Impact of Swings on Pigment Unit
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-05-10T20:05:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/dupont-s-kullman-considers-affect-of-pigment-profit-swing.html
DuPont Co. (DD) , the biggest producer of
titanium dioxide pigment, is considering whether earnings
volatility from the whitening chemical mean the business should
be sold, Chief Executive Officer  Ellen Kullman  said.  Titanium dioxide, known by its chemical formula TiO2, is
“a very strong business for us” and has an advantaged cost
position at Wilmington, Delaware-based DuPont, Kullman said
yesterday in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s  Betty Liu .
Still, swings in earnings from TiO2, used to whiten paints and
plastics, have “gotten to be pretty large,” she said.  “We have to consider and continue to talk about and
understand how that does impact our shareholders and how that
impacts the company,” Kullman said when asked in the interview
about divesting the unit.  Kullman, who is also DuPont’s chairman, has forecast an
earnings increase this year of 2 percent to 7 percent, less than
her long-term goal of as much as 12 percent, because declining
prices for TiO2 are eroding the benefit of gains in crop seeds
and other businesses. She sold the slow-growing auto-paint unit
in February for $4.9 billion.  “Our portfolio will continue to change over time as we
find new ways for science to create value,” Kullman said. “Or
maybe there are some places where science doesn’t have the value
that it used to. Then there might be someone who values it more
than we do.”  DuPont rose 0.1 percent to $55.46 at the close in New York.
 The shares  have gained 23 percent this year.  Profit Falls  Operating profit in the  performance-chemicals  unit, which
gets almost half of sales from TiO2, fell 56 percent in the
first quarter. DuPont may wait until 2014 to divest the TiO2
unit in order to give earnings time to recover from cyclical
lows,  David Begleiter , a New York-based analyst at Deutsche Bank
AG, said in a May 3 report.  “Its significantly greater volatility than rest of the
portfolio and its outsized negative impact on the share price
are the reasons we believe why the business will be divested,”
Begleiter, who recommends buying the shares, said in the note.  DuPont competitors  Huntsman Corp. (HUN) ,  Rockwood Holdings Inc. (ROC) ,
and  Tronox Ltd. (TROX)  are reviewing their TiO2 operations. Rockwood
wants to sell its pigment unit by the end of the year, Tronox is
considering buying TiO2 assets, and Huntsman said April 30 that
it wants to participate in the industry consolidation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  