-- The Trouble With Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann
-- B y   M e l v y n   K r a u s s
-- 2013-05-09T22:00:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/the-trouble-with-bundesbank-president-jens-weidmann.html
Germans need to re-think whether
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann’s move to lodge a legal
challenge against the  European Central Bank ’s bond-buying
program was such a good idea. They don’t have a lot of time.  Germany’s constitutional court in Karlsruhe is  scheduled  to
decide the case next month. If it says the ECB’s outright-monetary-transactions  program  is illegal, then markets will dump
the euro, and bond markets in the euro area’s peripheral
economies will swoon. The last thing  Europe  needs as it seeks to
emerge from a recession is a return to last year’s unstable
financial markets.  Chancellor Angela Merkel , no doubt, has a Plan B available
for such an outcome, like going to parliament to amend the
constitution, so the ECB program can resume. If she doesn’t, she
should. Even so, the market volatility that would follow until
the ECB was able to restore its bond-purchase guarantee would be
devastating.  Most analysts believe the court will rule in favor of the
ECB program, at least in a modified form. Even if that proves to
be the case, however, the court hearings could easily develop a
circus-like atmosphere that creates uncertainty and undermines
confidence in the common currency. The hearings might also
affect September’s federal elections in Germany, given that
Merkel supported the ECB’s program from the outset.  And all this risk for what? So that the anti-euro lawyers
and officials in top management at the Bundesbank can take their
revenge on a currency union that they opposed from the very
beginning. Germany’s central bank clearly went too far this
time.  Foolish Position  The Bundesbank doesn’t have veto power over the decisions
of the ECB’s Governing  Council , which has 23 members. Weidmann
is trying to use Germany’s courts to get a veto, even though he
was in a minority of one in opposing outright monetary
transactions.  Weidmann might not look so foolish if the program hadn’t
proved so successful. By merely threatening intervention in the
bond markets, the ECB has been able to reduce sovereign  interest
rates  in the periphery and keep them down, despite inconclusive
elections in  Italy  and a bailout fiasco in Cyprus. The yield on
 Spain ’s 10-year bonds, for example, reached a high of 7.6
percent before the ECB announced its bond-buying program. Today
they are about 4.2 percent. That’s a difference between solvency
and default for Spain, and quite an accomplishment to want to
undo.  Moreover, none of this has cost Germany or the ECB a euro
cent, because the pledge to intervene in bond markets alone has
been enough to calm investors. Not a bond has had to be
purchased yet.  Weidmann should stand up to the anti-euro elements within
his house, not capitulate to them. The euro is  Germany ’s future,
not the deutsche mark. By failing to accept this fact, the
Bundesbank is putting German interests at risk. Weidmann will be
a less effective advocate for German interests inside the ECB
now that he has offended his colleagues by attempting to
undermine the program they voted for.  Germany’s top central banker acknowledges that the ECB’s
program brought stability to turbulent financial markets. But
his response has been, in essence: so what? “It did not come as
a surprise to me that the markets were calmed,” Weidmann said in
an  interview  with the Wall Street Journal last month. “This
doesn’t necessarily make the decision a good one from a policy
perspective.” Pardon me, Mr. Weidmann, but saving the euro when
it was under fierce speculative attack in the  currency markets 
was the essence of good policy.  The head of the Bundesbank shouldn’t sound like a Christian
Scientist, who prefers to see a loved one die rather than use
needed medical interventions that are proscribed by his
religion. German taxpayers have a lot to lose if the euro fails.  Germany has racked up impressive gains from lower interest
rates on peripheral debt, since Weidmann was overruled and the
ECB began its bond-purchase guarantee. The price of bonds from
the peripheral economies increased substantially as a result,
and the German government owns a lot of these investments.  German Interests  The gains that followed would turn into steep losses if the
Bundesbank’s lawyers were to prevail in court. In effect,
Weidmann’s legal challenge has made the Bundesbank’s interests
antithetical to those of German taxpayers.  This is hard to explain on policy grounds alone. Taking the
ECB to court is further evidence that the Bundesbank is having a
tough time coming to grips with its diminished role in European
monetary affairs since Germany adopted the euro. Who can forget
the almost-comic antics of ex-Bundesbank head  Axel Weber , when
he leaked information to the media before then ECB President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  could get to a microphone? Trichet wasn’t
amused. In retrospect, though, Weber’s behavior seems to reflect
an institutional, rather than personal, animus.  Merkel and her finance minister,  Wolfgang Schaeuble , have
said on more than one occasion that going back to the deutsche
mark would be insane. Weidmann should learn from his experience
with the outright-monetary-transactions program. He allowed
anti-euro hard-liners within his central bank to put a
successful policy at risk and impose large potential costs on
the German economy. The Bundesbank needs to accept that the euro
is now Germany’s only viable currency and do whatever it takes
to secure it.  (Melvyn Krauss is an emeritus economics professor at  New
York  University and a senior fellow at the  Hoover Institution  at
 Stanford University . The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 melvynbkrauss@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net  