-- LME Warehouse Backlogs Seen by Euromin Being Challenged on Banks
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-05-09T12:01:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/lme-warehouse-backlogs-seen-by-euromin-being-challenged-on-banks.html
It’s only a matter of time before the
long waits for metal at warehouses monitored by the London Metal
Exchange are challenged because of increased regulatory focus on
banks, according to Mike Baker, risk manager at Euromin SA, the
metals trading company owned by London-based Vitol Group.  The following comments are from a copy of Baker’s speech
that he made at Metal Bulletin’s  17th Annual Zinc & Its Markets
Seminar 2013  in Amsterdam on May 7.  “There is nothing illegal in ‘formation’ of these queues.
However, at a time when the behavior of banks and large trading
companies is under increasingly close scrutiny from the
regulatory authorities, it is only a matter of time before the
situation is challenged.”  At the conference, Diarmuid O’Hegarty, chief operating
officer of the LME, said the LME has no control over who owns
warehouse companies.  “The new warehouse owners bought into the warehousing
business because they saw a profit opportunity, and a very good
one at that. There is currently around $3.75 million of LME rent
to be earned every single day. The question became, how could a
warehouse acquire a significant part of this income in the most
efficient manner?  ‘‘If the minimum load-out rate mandated by the LME was to
be interpreted as a maximum load-out rate by the warehouses,
they realized that a sufficiently large queue of canceled
warrants would effectively create a dam against the delivery of
material from warrant. Just like a water dam, the warehouse dam
would allow a trickle of metal out, but the reservoir of
material behind the dam could be replenished and increased by
the delivery of further material into warehouse.’’  ‘‘Although none of what the warehouses are doing is illegal
the issue of LME warehousing is getting ever greater scrutiny
from regulatory authorities, particularly in the U.S.  ‘‘If the users of the market continue to shy away from this
issue and remain quiet then we as an industry are unlikely to
see any changes any time soon, and indeed the situation is only
likely to get worse.’’  ‘‘The queue acts as a deterrent and lessens any demand for
material from that warehouse.  ‘‘Participants cannot generally afford the cost of both
rent and finance incurred by waiting an extended period in order
to access material. Therefore they invariably do not even try to
get material from a warehouse where a queue exists.’’  ‘‘Queues are caused by participants wanting to remove
material from store, whilst the very structure of a rent deal
meant that the material was tied up and not available to the
market, and consequently not available for delivery out of the
warehouse. This is corroborated by the fact that these ’rent
deals’ have existed for many years and certainly predate the
existence of warehouse queues.’’  ‘‘The first sign of a blurring of the boundaries between
the warehouse and the trader occurred when the warehouses
started arranging these deals for themselves, and began paying
premiums to entice material into their warehouses. The
limitation of the rent deal was that it required access to an
adequate supply of cheap money, and contangos sufficiently large
to offer a reasonable return. Both have been readily available
in recent years.’’  ‘‘The mindset of the warehouse companies is epitomized by
their interpretation of minimum load out rates set down by the
LME, as maximum load out rates for the warehouses.  ‘‘If the load-out rates were set per warehouse facility
rather than per company the bottlenecks would be likely to ease
and could even disappear as the cost of maintaining a dam on
each warehouse facility would be prohibitive compared to the
potential profit to be gained.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  