-- Heathrow Growth to Possible 4th Runway Urged by Lawmakers
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-05-10T08:55:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/heathrow-growth-to-possible-4th-runway-urged-by-lawmakers.html
London’s Heathrow Airport,  Europe ’s
busiest, should be expanded with the addition of a third and
even a fourth runway, a cross-party panel of lawmakers said.  The building of a new hub airport to the east of the U.K.
capital, as championed by London Mayor Boris Johnson, would not
be commercially viable without “significant” taxpayer funding
and should be rejected, the House of Commons Transport Committee
said in a report today.  “Heathrow, the U.K.’s only hub airport, has been short of
capacity for a decade and is currently operating at full
capacity,” Committee Chairwoman Louise Ellman, a member of the
opposition Labour Party, said in an e-mailed statement. “We
conclude that a third runway at Heathrow is necessary, but also
suggest that a four-runway proposal may have merit.”  U.K. airport capacity is currently being reviewed by a
commission set up by Prime Minister David Cameron, which will
put off a decision on expanding Heathrow until after the 2015
general election. Led by Howard Davies, a former chairman of the
Financial Services Authority, the panel will produce an interim
report later this year. Heathrow utilizes 99 percent of its
runway capacity.  Cameron’s Conservative Party made blocking the expansion of
Heathrow a key pledge in its 2010 general-election campaign in a
bid to win votes in west  London , under the Heathrow flight path.
It promised to make the airport “better, not bigger,” stop the
construction of a third runway and instead link the airport into
Britain’s proposed high-speed rail network.  Split Hub  Trying to create a split-hub system by developing rail
links between existing airports is unviable, said the panel,
which has no London lawmakers among its members, arguing for
dedicated rail lines to be built to improve access to Gatwick
Airport, south of the capital, and Stansted to the northeast.
Connections to Heathrow should also be improved, it said.  The Davies commission should use its report to set a
framework for future transport policy, the committee said.  “It is less than ideal that the Airports Commission is
working to a protracted timetable, with a final report not to be
produced until after the 2015 general election,” the lawmakers
said. “We could complain that this is yet another example of
important decisions on aviation being kicked into the long
grass, but instead we challenge the commission to use this
opportunity to, once and for all, provide a robust and
independent evidence base for future decisions.”  Labour Plan  The building of a third runway at Heathrow was proposed by
Tony Blair’s Labour government in 2003, subject to environmental
standards, which then Transport Secretary Geoff Hoon announced
had been met in 2009. The proposal became mired in legal,
political and environmental arguments and it was canceled when
Cameron’s coalition government with the Liberal Democrats was
formed in May 2010.  The Davies commission should consider the possibility of
building two new runways to the west of Heathrow, on the other
side of the M25 motorway, which would reduce aircraft noise for
people under the flight path, the committee said.  The government should also review air passenger duty, the
levy on passengers taking flights, and consider reducing or
abolishing it if it is found to have a negative impact on the
British economy, the panel said. An APD holiday could also be
introduced for services operating from airports outside
southeast  England  to shift demand away from London, it
suggested.  Boris Island  The building of a new hub to the east of London, a proposal
dubbed “Boris Island,” should be rejected because it would
lead to the closing of Heathrow and have “unacceptable”
consequences for people and businesses in west London, the panel
said. It would also need too much public money and would have a
substantial impact on wildlife in the Thames Estuary, the
committee said.  Johnson insisted that a new airport in the estuary is the
only solution to London’s capacity shortage.  “London and the wider U.K. do need a hub airport that can
operate 24 hours a day without constraint, and the only place
that is possible is to the east of London,” Johnson told the
 BBC . “By suggesting that Heathrow should double its runways
from two to four, the committee is putting four fingers up to
hundreds of thousands of Londoners.”  The London Assembly’s Transport Committee argued in a
separate report last week that Britain has enough airport
capacity to cope with its needs if utilized properly and that
Heathrow could serve 20 million more passengers every year
without a new runway if bigger airplanes are used.  ‘Half-Baked Suggestions’  Richard Branson’s Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd., Britain’s
second-biggest long-haul carrier, said in an e-mailed statement
that the Commons panel’s “report is detailed, persuasive and
right to rule out once and for all half-baked suggestions,”
arguing that “the U.K. needs one globally competitive hub
airport for the long term.”  The premier’s spokesman, Jean-Christophe Gray, said
yesterday Cameron would wait for the commission’s report before
making a judgment. “The prime minister thinks that the right
thing to do is allow the Davies Commission to report on the
issue of airport capacity,” he said.  Colin Stanbridge, chief executive officer of the London
Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the U.K. capital’s largest
business organization, welcomed the report and urged the
government to take action.  Ministers should “actively consider what practical
temporary measures could be implemented to secure additional
capacity at Heathrow in the short term,” Stanbridge said in an
e-mailed statement. “Heathrow is an important pillar of the
London economy and a strategic asset to the wider U.K.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  