-- ECB Seen Desisting From Further Rate Cut Until 2015
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r   a n d   J o s h u a   R o b i n s o n
-- 2013-05-09T11:15:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/ecb-seen-desisting-from-further-rate-cut-until-2015.html
The  European Central Bank  will refrain
from cutting its interest rate again until at least 2015,
according to economists surveyed since President  Mario Draghi ’s
pledge last week to deliver another reduction if needed.  The Frankfurt-based central bank will leave its main
refinancing rate at a  record-low 0.5 percent  until the end of
2014, according to the median of 18 forecasts in the monthly
Bloomberg survey of economists. The same survey shows that 27 of
32 economists predict no cut in the benchmark by the end of
2013, while five see a reduction to 0.25 percent.  Draghi said on May 2 that the ECB remains ready to act
again after it lowered its key rate by a quarter-point the same
day. While economists in today’s survey reduced forecasts for
euro-region gross domestic product this year, data suggest the
17-nation zone may return to growth after industrial production
and factory orders in  Germany  both jumped more than forecast.  “I don’t expect another ECB rate cut,” said  Marco Valli ,
chief euro-area economist at UniCredit Global Research in Milan.
“Inflation will move closer to 2 percent again and we will see
moderate economic growth in the second half of this year.”  The euro fell 0.1 percent today after erasing earlier
gains, and traded at $1.3140 as of 12:14 p.m. in  London .  Korean Cut  Following the lead of the ECB and policy makers in
Australia and  India  this month, the  Bank of Korea  cut  interest
rates  today as strength in the won and weakness in the yen dim
the outlook for the nation’s exports. The South Korean seven-day
repurchase rate fell to 2.5 percent from 2.75 percent.  The U.K. interest rate will stay unchanged at 0.5 percent
until at least the end of 2014, according to all but two of 19
economists in the Bloomberg monthly survey. The  Bank of England 
today kept its rate steady and refrained from expanding
stimulus.  In the euro area, the annual inflation rate dipped to 1.2
percent in April from 1.7 percent a month earlier. That’s the
lowest since February 2010. The ECB predicts prices to rise 1.6
percent this year and 1.3 percent in 2014.  Economists in the Bloomberg survey cut forecasts for
inflation for the next three quarters and for 2014. Their median
predictions are for inflation averaging 1.6 percent in both
years. Professional forecasters in a quarterly survey by the ECB
released in its monthly bulletin today see inflation at 1.7
percent this year and 1.6 percent in 2014.  Growth Outlook  The Bloomberg survey also showed a worse outlook for GDP
this year. Economists now see a contraction of 0.5 percent
instead of 0.4 percent, according to the median prediction.
Their forecasts show growth of 1 percent in 2014.  In the ECB survey, economists cut their euro-area GDP
outlook for this year and now see a 0.4 percent contraction
instead of stagnation.  Unemployment in  Greece  rose to a record 27 percent in
February as the country’s recession left more than six in 10
young people out of work, according to data released today.
Statistics in  Portugal  showed the jobless rate there increased
to a record 17.7 percent.  The British economy will expand 0.8 percent in 2013 and 1.5
percent next year, according to the median forecasts of 36
economists in the Bloomberg survey. Economists cut predictions
for inflation later this year, with the median prediction of 16
economists now showing a rate of 2.6 percent in the fourth
quarter instead of 2.8 percent.  U.K. Manufacturing  Data today showed that U.K. industrial output rose 0.7
percent in March from February, more than three times the 0.2
percent median prediction in a Bloomberg survey of 31
economists, as cold weather boosted demand for electricity and
gas. Manufacturing rose 1.1 percent, compared with a 0.3 percent
median forecast.  While Draghi expects the euro region economy to “gradually
recover” in the second half of the year, he said on May 2 that
the “risks surrounding the economic outlook for the euro area
continue to be on the downside.” The ECB, in its monthly
bulletin today, reiterated that view.  Such an outlook has helped fuel speculation that the ECB
might cut its interest rate again.  “There’s a chance for the recovery to not materialize
anytime soon and for euro-area growth to be flat next year,”
said  Nick Matthews , senior European economist at Nomura
International Plc in London. “Rates could be lowered again and
this may also include a negative deposit rate.”  Parking Cash  Forcing banks to pay when parking cash at the central bank
would be aimed at spurring them into lending rather than saving.
Draghi said last week the ECB has “an open mind” on reducing
the so-called deposit rate below zero for the first time.  A potential danger is that a deposit-rate cut may end up
hurting banks’ profitability by lowering money-market rates,
potentially hampering credit supply to companies and households
even further and reducing banks’ incentive to lend to
counterparts.  “It’s harder to do than just cutting the benchmark rate,”
said Richard Barwell, senior European economist at  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc  in London. He sees a probability of two
thirds that the ECB will lower the main refinancing rate by
September.  Still, policy makers like ECB Executive Board members  Joerg Asmussen  and Yves Mersch have argued that cutting the benchmark
rate further may have a limited effect and comes with risks.  “The closer we get to zero, the bigger the inefficiency of
a further rate cut,” Mersch said at a conference yesterday in
Aachen, Germany.  “The decisive question will be whether we are going to see
downward pressure on inflation expectations in the months to
come,” said Kristian Toedtmann, senior economist at DekaBank in
 Frankfurt . “I don’t see this happening, and that’s why there
probably won’t be another rate cut.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Robinson in London at 
 jrobinson37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  