-- ECB Monthly Bulletin Editorial for May (Text)
-- B y   H a r u m i   I c h i k u r a
-- 2013-05-09T08:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/ecb-monthly-bulletin-editorial-for-may-text-.html
The following is the text
of the European Central Bank’s May monthly bulletin:  Based on its regular economic and monetary analyses, the
Governing Council decided at its meeting on 2 May to lower the
 interest rate  on the main refinancing operations of the
Eurosystem by 25 basis points to 0.50% and the rate on the
marginal lending facility by 50 basis points to 1.00%. The rate
on the deposit facility will remain unchanged at 0.00%. These
decisions are consistent with low underlying price pressure over
the medium term. Inflation expectations for the euro area
continue to be firmly anchored in line with the Governing
Council’s aim of maintaining inflation rates below, but close to,
2% over the medium term. In keeping with this picture, monetary
and loan dynamics remain subdued. At the same time, weak
economic sentiment has extended into spring of this year. The
cut in interest rates should contribute to support prospects for
a recovery later in the year. Against this overall background,
the monetary policy stance will remain accommodative for as long
as needed. In the period ahead, the Governing Council will
monitor very closely all incoming information on economic and
monetary developments and assess any impact on the outlook for
 price stability .  The Governing Council is closely monitoring money market
conditions and their potential impact on the monetary policy
stance and its transmission to the economy. In this context, the
Governing Council decided at its meeting on 2 May to continue
conducting the main refinancing operations (MROs) as fixed rate
tender procedures with full allotment for as long as necessary,
and at least until the end of the sixth maintenance period of
2014 on 8 July 2014. This procedure will also remain in use for
the Eurosystem’s special-term refinancing operations with a
maturity of one maintenance period, which will continue to be
conducted for as long as needed, and at least until the end of
the second quarter of 2014. The fixed rate in these special-term
refinancing operations will be the same as the MRO rate
prevailing at the time. Furthermore, the Governing Council
decided to conduct the three-month longer-term refinancing
operations (LTROs) to be allotted until the end of the second
quarter of 2014 as fixed rate tender procedures with full
allotment. The rates in these three-month operations will be
fixed at the average rate of the MROs over the life of the
respective LTRO.  The Governing Council also decided to start consultations with
other European institutions on initiatives to promote a
functioning market for asset-backed securities collateralised by
loans to non-financial corporations.  In the meantime, it is essential for governments to intensify
the implementation of structural reforms at national level,
building on progress made in fiscal consolidation and proceeding
with bank recapitalisation where needed. Furthermore, they
should maintain the momentum towards a genuine Economic and
Monetary Union, including the swift implementation of the
banking union.  Regarding the economic analysis, real GDP contracted by 0.6% in
the fourth quarter of 2012, following a decline of 0.1% in the
third quarter. Output has thus declined for five consecutive
quarters. Overall, labour market conditions remain weak. Recent
developments in short-term indicators, notably survey data,
indicate that weak economic sentiment has extended into spring
of this year. Looking ahead, euro area export growth should
benefit from a recovery in global demand and the monetary policy
stance should contribute to support domestic demand. Furthermore,
the improvements in financial markets seen since last summer
should work their way through to the real economy. At the same
time, necessary balance sheet adjustments in the public and
private sectors will continue to weigh on economic activity.
Overall, euro area economic activity should stabilise and
recover gradually in the second half of the year.  The risks surrounding the economic outlook for the euro area
continue to be on the downside. They include the possibility of
even weaker than expected domestic and global demand and slow or
insufficient implementation of structural reforms in the euro
area. These factors have the potential to dampen confidence and
thereby delay the recovery.  According to Eurostat’s flash estimate, euro area annual HICP
inflation was 1.2% in April 2013, down from 1.7% in March. This
decline in the annual inflation rate reflects a significant fall
in energy prices, but is also due to a sizeable transitory
effect coming from the annual rate of change in services prices
on account of the timing of Easter. Inflation rates could remain
subject to some volatility throughout the year. Looking further
ahead, underlying price trends should persist and, over the
medium term, inflation expectations remain firmly anchored in
line with price stability.  Taking into account the Governing Council’s decisions, risks to
the outlook for price developments are broadly balanced over the
medium term, with upside risks relating to stronger than
expected increases in administered prices and indirect taxes, as
well as higher commodity prices, and downside risks stemming
from weaker economic activity.  Turning to the monetary analysis, recent data confirm that the
underlying pace of monetary expansion continues to be subdued.
Annual growth in broad money moderated in March, standing at
2.6%, after 3.1% in February. The annual growth rate of the
narrow monetary aggregate, M1, increased slightly further to
7.1% in March, reflecting the continued preference for the most
liquid instruments in M3. Deposits with the domestic money-holding sector continued to grow further in most stressed
countries in March.  The annual growth rates of loans (adjusted for loan sales and
securitisation) to non-financial corporations and households
have now remained broadly unchanged since the turn of the year,
standing in March at -1.3% and 0.4% respectively. To a large
extent, weak loan dynamics reflect the current stage of the
business cycle, heightened credit risk and the ongoing
adjustment of financial and non-financial sector balance sheets.
The recent bank lending survey (BLS) confirmed weak demand for
loans in the euro area. While some signs of stabilisation are
emerging, the Survey on the access to finance of small and
medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in the euro area indicates
continued tight credit conditions, particularly for SMEs in
several euro area countries. Moreover, the available information
indicates high risk perception on the part of banks.  In order to ensure adequate transmission of monetary policy to
the financing conditions in euro area countries, it is essential
that the fragmentation of euro area credit markets continues to
decline further and that the resilience of banks is strengthened
where needed. Progress has been made since last summer in
improving the funding situation of banks, in strengthening the
domestic deposit base in stressed countries and in reducing
reliance on the Eurosystem as reflected in repayments of the
three-year LTROs. Further decisive steps for establishing a
banking union will help to accomplish this objective. In
particular, the Governing Council emphasises that the future
Single Supervisory Mechanism and a Single Resolution Mechanism
are crucial elements for moving towards re-integrating the
banking system and therefore require swift implementation.  To sum up, taking into account the Governing Council’s decisions
of 2 May, the economic analysis indicates that price
developments should remain in line with price stability over the
medium term. A cross-check with the signals from the monetary
analysis confirms this picture.  With regard to fiscal policies, the spring 2013 deficit and debt
data notifications by euro area countries indicate that the
average government deficit declined from 4.2% of GDP in 2011 to
3.7% in 2012. Over the same period, the average government debt
rose from 87.3% to 90.6% of GDP. In order to bring debt ratios
back on a downward path, euro area countries should not unravel
their efforts to reduce government budget deficits and continue,
where needed, to take legislative action or otherwise promptly
implement structural reforms, in such a way as to mutually
reinforce fiscal sustainability and economic growth potential.
Such structural reforms should target improvements in
competitiveness and adjustment capacities, as well as aim to
increase sustainable growth and employment.  This issue of the Monthly Bulletin contains three articles. The
first article reviews the performance of the Eurosystem staff
macroeconomic projections since their first publication in 2000.
The second article looks at developments in external and
domestic imbalances across euro area countries since the start
of the 2008-09 global financial crisis with a view to assessing
the progress made in the adjustment process so far. The third
article explains how, in a context of dysfunctional bank funding
markets, large TARGET claims emerged as the ECB accommodated the
liquidity needs of solvent banks and explains that TARGET
balances are a manifestation of underlying tensions in the
Economic and Monetary Union.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Harumi Ichikura in London at 
 hichikura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  