-- ECB Says Rate Cut Is Consistent With Low Inflation in Euro Area
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-05-09T08:05:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/ecb-says-rate-cut-is-consistent-with-low-inflation-in-euro-area.html
The  European Central Bank  said low
inflation in the 17-nation euro area allowed policy makers to
cut  interest rates  last week, as economists lowered forecasts
for consumer prices and economic growth.  The decision was “consistent with low underlying price
pressure over the medium term,” the Frankfurt-based ECB said in
its monthly bulletin today, echoing President  Mario Draghi ’s May
2  policy statement . Inflation expectations are “firmly
anchored” and lower borrowing costs “should contribute to
support prospects for a recovery later in the year,” it said.  The ECB reduced its  benchmark rate  to a record low of 0.5
percent last week and extended unlimited liquidity supply to
euro-region banks until mid-2014. Policy makers are ready to cut
rates again if needed and are open to taking the deposit rate
below zero, Draghi said on May 6.  “The monetary policy stance will remain accommodative for
as long as needed,” the ECB said. “In the period ahead, the
Governing Council will monitor very closely all incoming
information on economic and monetary developments and assess any
impact on the outlook for  price stability .”  To help ensure its low rates are reaching the parts of the
economy that need them most, policy makers agreed to explore
options to rekindle the market for asset-backed securities and
stimulate lending to smaller companies.  With risks to the economic outlook still on the downside,
professional forecasters cut their estimates for growth and
inflation for this year and next.  The economy will contract 0.4 percent in 2013, before
growing 1 percent in 2014, they said. In February, economists
had predicted stagnation, followed by growth of 1.1 percent.
Inflation is seen at 1.7 percent this year and 1.6 percent next
year, down from the 1.8 percent forecast for both years three
months ago.  The ECB will publish its staff projections next month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  