-- Ecobank CEO May Delay Nedbank Option to Focus on African Growth
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2013-05-09T08:09:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/ecobank-ceo-may-delay-nedbank-option-to-focus-on-african-growth.html
Ecobank Transnational Inc. (ETI)  may shelve
plans to buy a stake this year in South Africa’s  Nedbank Group
Ltd. (NED)  to focus on its business in 33 other African countries,
said Chief Executive Officer Thierry Tanoh.  “We can capture African growth and increase efficiency at
the same time and when that’s done, there’s the option with
 Nedbank  -- it’s not the time to talk about it now,” Tanoh, who
became CEO in January, said in an interview at the  World
Economic Forum  in  Cape Town  yesterday.  Ecobank Chairman Kolapo Lawson said last year that the
Lome, Togo-based lender wanted to exercise an option to buy a
stake in Johannesburg-based Nedbank at the end of 2013. Tanoh
wants to focus on increasing profitability elsewhere in the
continent after first-quarter earnings climbed 26 percent.  “First-quarter figures are a snapshot of where we could
go,” said Tanoh, adding that Ecobank plans to cut funding costs
by refinancing debt, issuing bonds or attracting new investors.  Nedbank, which is controlled by  Old Mutual Plc (OML) , loaned
Ecobank $285 million at the end of 2011. Both lenders have the
right to take a stake of as much as 20 percent in the other from
the end of 2013. Nedbank, South Africa’s fourth-biggest bank,
has said it intends to use the option to gain access to the
continent’s most geographically diverse lender.  “There’s no expiration date” on Ecobank’s option to take
a stake in Nedbank, Tanoh said.  Forging partnerships with insurers in Africa and building
an investment banking team are also part of the Ecobank’s plans,
said Tanoh. The lender is also looking for ways to enter
Mozambique and Angola, he said.  Ecobank shares have climbed 35 percent this year in Lagos
trading compared with a 26 percent gain for the Nigerian Stock
Exchange All-Share Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  