-- Egypt Cut to Record Low at S&P on Increased Financing Pressure
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-05-09T12:24:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/egypt-cut-to-record-low-at-s-p-on-increased-financing-pressure.html
Egypt ’s long-term credit rating was
cut to seven levels below investment grade at  Standard & Poor’s ,
the second-lowest of any country rated by the agency, which
cited increased financing pressures.  The country’s long-term sovereign credit rating was lowered
one notch to a record low CCC+ from B-, and the short-term
rating was cut four levels to C from B. The long-term rating is
one level above Cyprus and one lower than Greece and Pakistan,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  S&P has cut Egypt six times since the start of the revolt
that ousted  Hosni Mubarak  in 2011, which has raised the
country’s borrowing costs, widened the  budget deficit  and
weakened Egypt’s currency to a record low. Two years of talks
have failed to secure an  International Monetary Fund  loan, and
the agency said the country’s ability to meet its fiscal targets
and ease external pressures has deteriorated.  “The downgrade reflects our view that the Egyptian
authorities have yet to put forward -- either to the Egyptian
population or the international donor community -- a sustainable
medium-term strategy to manage the country’s fiscal and external
financing needs,” analysts  Trevor Cullinan  and Dima Jardaneh
wrote in the statement released today.  Egypt’s annual general government deficit is likely to
average close to 11 percent of economic output over 2012-2016,
S&P said. The budget deficit may widen to as much as 11.7
percent in the year that ends in June from 11 percent last year
because of the delay in enacting fiscal changes, former Finance
Minister El-Morsi Hegazi said last month.  S&P said its outlook for Egypt is stable. “We expect
financing pressures to remain elevated and comprehensive donor
support, including from the International Monetary Fund, to
remain elusive,” S&P said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  