-- Egypt April Inflation Accelerates Driven by Rise in Food Prices
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-05-09T08:42:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/egypt-april-inflation-accelerates-driven-by-rise-in-food-prices.html
Egypt ’s  inflation  accelerated to 8.1
percent in April, pushed up by rising food prices that are
pressuring the government as it seeks to conclude a $4.8 billion
International Monetary Fund loan.  Consumer prices rose 1.5 percent in April from the previous
month, according to the government’s statistics office. Food and
beverage prices climbed 2.7 percent.  “The food was a major factor,” said Mohamed Abu Basha, an
economist at investment bank EFG-Hermes SAE in Cairo. “You had
food up aggressively. You also had the increase in price of
butane canisters,” used for cooking gas. That was ordered by
the government as it seeks to reduce its subsidy bill.  Inflation was one the catalysts for Egypt’s 2011 uprising
that ousted  Hosni Mubarak , and now it’s fueling discontent with
his successor, Islamist President Mohamed Mursi. An 11 percent
decline in the Egyptian pound since December has contributed to
rising costs. The central bank is expected to increase its
benchmark interest rate today for the second time this year to
curb inflation, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists.  Critics have faulted Mursi for failing to revive an economy
that’s been growing at the  slowest pace  in two decades, and this
week he replaced several ministers with key economic portfolios.
The government is pinning expectations of a recovery on the
long-delayed IMF loan, seen by officials as key to unlocking
other foreign funds and helping restore confidence.  Inflation would continue to accelerate in the coming
months, particularly ahead of the holy month of Ramadan when
prices typically rise sharply, Abu Basha said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  