-- Electronic Structured Note Services Face Regulatory Hurdles
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2013-05-09T16:48:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/electronic-structured-note-services-face-regulatory-hurdles.html
Structured note issuers face
regulatory hurdles to releasing electronic systems in the U.S.
that are as powerful as software that has become commonplace in
Europe.  The programs, which brokers or advisers use to show
investors prices for different structured notes that often can
be purchased as well, are employed by at least eight banks in
Europe, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  UBS AG (UBS) ,
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DB)  have platforms in the U.S.  The software allows banks to lower costs by reducing the
labor needed to create notes and to bolster sales by offering
products that can be easily customized. That approach in the
U.S. may come at the price of potentially higher legal costs and
expensive filing requirements, stemming from a rule that a
prospectus must be sent to a regulator before a security can be
offered for sale.  “If you take the position that every quote an investor
receives constitutes a new offer, then potentially you have a
huge number of filings for deals that never materialize,” said
Mathias Strasser, chief executive officer of WallStreetDocs
Ltd., a company that automates offering documents for issuers
including Bank of America Corp. and Barclays.  A prospectus must be on file with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission before any security is sold in the country,
except for private placements, said Kevin Callahan, a spokesman
for the agency.  A “more flexible” climate in  Europe  has made it easier
for banks to develop electronic services there first, said Linda
Simpson, partner at Davis Polk & Wardwell in New York.  Structured notes are also more common in Europe, which
helped spur the creation of the systems, Strasser said.  ‘Missing Out’  For U.S. issuers, what’s at stake is the ability to “issue
in smaller sizes profitably,” said Tim Mortimer, founder of
Future Value Consultants Ltd., a structured products analytics
firm, in a telephone call from his office in  London . “Banks
that are either unwilling or unable to issue more deals in
smaller volumes are missing out.”  In 2011, UBS started trading securities using its Equity
Investor program in the U.S. This year the bank has 2,580 U.S.
structured note sales and ranks No. 6 for total issuance. In
2010, UBS was No. 11 and had 242 offerings for the entire year.  Both UBS and Barclays, which last year started allowing
U.S. investors to use its Barx Comet service to see prices
though not buy, began offering electronic platforms first in
Europe.  New Platforms  Deutsche Bank’s Autobahn program lets European investors
purchase securities, while their U.S. counterparts are able to
see prices for new products without being able to buy them
directly.  Other issuers plan to make electronic systems available in
the U.S. this year.  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  intends to start a service similar to its
Smart Derivatives, said Serge Troyanovsky, managing director and
head of North American structured product sales at the bank in
New York.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  is “evaluating” offering
its  MarketDirect  program in the U.S, said  Ed Canaday , a
spokesman for the bank in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . The service has
been available in Europe since 2010. The bank hasn’t issued any
structured notes in the U.S. this year, Bloomberg data show.  My Solutions  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  introduced their
platforms to some countries outside of the U.S. last year. The
Credit Suisse service, my Solutions, can be accessed in
Switzerland, and there are plans to make it available more
broadly in Europe, as well as in Asia and the U.S., said Valeria
Ancarani, a spokeswoman for the bank in Zurich.  Spokespeople Megan Stinson of UBS, Mark Lane of Barclays,
Lauren Bellmare of Morgan Stanley and Amanda Williams of
Deutsche Bank declined to comment on the programs.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in interest rates or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in New York at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  