-- Emerging Stocks Rise as Tech Shares Rally to 13-Year High
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-05-09T21:23:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/emerging-stocks-rise-as-technology-shares-gain-to-13-year-high.html
Emerging stocks reversed earlier gains
as commodity producers paced losses in Brazil’s Ibovespa,
overshadowing a surprise interest rate cut in  South Korea .
Turkey’s benchmark measure slumped from a record-high.  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA, the oil producer
controlled by Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista , plunged 6.3
percent.  Koc Holding AS (KCHOL) , Turkey’s biggest group of companies,
tumbled after its chairman said members of the founding family
may reconsider selling about 100 million shares. Samsung
Electronics jumped the most this month in  Seoul .  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index lost 0.1 percent to
1,060.58. Commodity producers slumped as oil, gold and copper
retreated. China’s consumer inflation stayed subdued in April,
while the Bank of  Korea  joined central banks in Australia,
Europe and India in cutting rates to boost growth. Stocks
briefly extended losses after Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia President  Charles Plosser  said the central bank
would be “limited” in capability for more stimulus.  “The surprise easing from the  Bank of Korea  did help, but
unless people believe China is going to have a resurgence of
industrial growth, commodity prices will be soft,” Paul Zemsky,
the New York-based head of  asset allocation  for ING Investment
Management which oversees $170 billion, said by phone. “And the
commodity producers, like Brazil, will be affected by that.”  Gauges of energy and raw material producers in the gauge of
emerging markets lost at least 0.1 percent, while a measure of
technology stocks jumped to a  13-year high . The gauge of
developing nations has gained 0.5 percent this year, compared
with a 12 percent increase in the MSCI World Index of developed-country stocks.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI  Emerging Markets  exchange-traded fund slid
0.7 percent to $43.91. The Chicago Board Options Exchange
Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of options
prices on the fund and expectations of price swings, added 2.5
percent to 18.54.  Brazil’s Ibovespa slumped 0.6 percent as OGX extended a
three-day drop to 16 percent as the nation’s stock exchange
increased the short-interest limit on the stock. In a short
sale, traders sell borrowed stock, anticipating the price will
drop so they can profit by buying back shares at a lower price.
Bets against the company soared to a record yesterday.  Mexico’s IPC index dropped 1 percent to the lowest since
November. Corp. Geo SAB, the nation’s second-biggest homebuilder
by sales, slumped 4.8 percent.  Turkey’s Borsa Instanbul index dropped 1 percent as Koc
posted the biggest slump since Nov. 14. Benchmark measures in
Poland and the  Czech Republic  declined, while Hungarian stocks
gained. Russian markets are closed for a national holiday today
and most organizations remain closed tomorrow.  South Korea  South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  rallied 1.2 percent to a one-month high, while the won weakened 0.5 percent against the
dollar, depreciating for the first time in five days. Samsung
rose 1.8 percent, while  Hyundai Mipo Dockyard (010620)  Co. jumped the
most in the gauge of developing nations.  The Shanghai Composite Index slipped 0.6 percent, while
while the  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  lost 0.2 percent as
a slump in producer prices signaled demand is weakening in the
world’s second-biggest economy. India’s S&P BSE Sensex fell 0.3
percent, its first decline in four days, as some investors
judged the recent rally that drove the benchmark index to more
than a three-month high as excessive.  Malaysia’s 10-year bond
yield slid to the lowest in more than four years.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries dropped five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 265 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  