-- Endeavour Sees Gold Producers Curbing Exploration on Price Slump
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 2013-05-09T10:35:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/endeavour-sees-gold-producers-curbing-exploration-on-price-slump.html
Gold producers are likely to scale
back exploration programs as lower prices spur cost cuts, the
head of  Endeavour Mining Corp. (EDV)  said.  “The industry has just gone through quite a shock in terms
of reduction in the gold price,” Chief Executive Officer Neil Woodyer said in Abidjan, Ivory Coast. “Mining expenditure on
projects will be down. The industry will be focused on cost
containment, essential expenditures and less exploration.”  Bullion has lost 12 percent this year, tumbling into a  bear
market  last month, as the MSCI All-Country World Index of
equities climbed 11 percent. Efforts to boost economic stability
have eroded demand for haven assets such as gold as money starts
to flow into riskier investments.  The drop in prices has already affected “economic projects
and ongoing operations” in the industry, Woodyer said in an
interview yesterday. “It’s a process all mining companies are
going through, and some are holding their development projects
until they see results of changes in the economic environment.”  Endeavour operates in  Ghana ,  Burkina Faso  and  Mali  and is
building its fourth West African mine in Ivory Coast, due to
start in the first quarter of next year, according to Woodyer.
Output may rise 17 percent to 350,000 ounces this year following
the expansion of Mali’s Tabakoto mine, and reach 450,000 ounces
in 2014 once Ivory Coast’s Agbaou project starts, he said.  Budget Review  Endeavour, which had planned to spend $200 million this
year, will review its  budget  and “see what is absolutely
essential,” Woodyer said. The Georgetown, Cayman Islands-based
producer will also seek to reduce operating costs as it becomes
“less focused on growth and more focused on cash generation.”  Even with falling prices, the company will keep its $120
million budget for Agbaou as “it is a new efficient mine and it
is a first step to other things we can do in  Ivory Coast ,”
Woodyer said, citing the country’s “tremendous potential” and
Endeavour’s ability to “get through the present gold climate.”  The Agbaou site, about 200 kilometers (124 miles) northwest
of Abidjan, has estimated reserves of 905,000 ounces and
forecast gold production averaging 103,000 ounces a year over
eight years, according to a statement e-mailed by Endeavour.  Ivory Coast, French-speaking West Africa’s biggest economy,
has announced plans to review its mining code, which dates from
1995. The nation, which produces gold, diamonds and manganese,
is following the lead of Ghana, Guinea, Zambia and  Zimbabwe  in
seeking more government revenue from mineral extraction.  Mining Code  The code “just needs to be updated in some of its details,
rather than in its concept,” according to Woodyer, who said it
must be “reasonably attractive from an investment point of
view” and competitive with other African countries. The CEO,
who met with Ivory Coast President  Alassane Ouattara  on May 7,
said he expects Endeavour’s own “mining convention,” an accord
specific to each operator, to be signed in the coming weeks.  Ivory Coast expects to produce 20.1 metric tons (709,000
ounces) of gold this year, up from 14.9 tons in 2012, according
to the  Finance Ministry . The nation has three mines in
operation, including  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS) ’s Tongon mine and
 Newcrest Mining Ltd. (NCM) ’s Bonikro project.  In neighboring Burkina Faso, Endeavour expects to complete
a feasibility study for a project in Hounde by the end of the
year, Woodyer said. That may expand the company’s total output
to 550,000 ounces in 2016, according to a statement.  “The fundamentals look good,” Woodyer said. Endeavour is
“well placed to grow when the market changes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan at 
 omonnier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  