-- Lenovo Plans to Debut Africa Smartphone in Nigeria This Year
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2013-05-10T12:12:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/lenovo-will-debut-first-africa-smartphone-in-nigeria-by-year-end.html
Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  will introduce its
first smartphones in  Africa , with a release planned for Nigeria
before the end of the year, as the Chinese company looks for
markets where it can sell directly to customers.  The world’s second-biggest maker of personal computers
picked Nigeria because, unlike in  South Africa , it doesn’t have
to work with local telecommunications companies in order to sell
its handsets, according to Graham Braum, general manager of
Africa. South Africa is the continent’s biggest economy while
Nigeria is the second largest.  “Nigeria is coming toward the end of the year and then we
will investigate the rest of Africa,” Braum said in an
interview at the company’s offices in Johannesburg. “We’re
trying to sell off the shelf. We’ve picked the open market.”  Lenovo is developing mobile devices such as smartphones and
tablets as it seeks to lure customers from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and weather a global slump in demand for
PCs. The Beijing-based company was alone among the world’s four
biggest PC makers to report shipments growth in the three months
through December, as those of  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ,  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and
Acer Computer International Ltd. fell, according to research by
 Gartner Inc.   Smartphone Users  Nigeria, Africa’s most populous nation with more than 160
million people, had about 113 million wireless subscribers at
the end of 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
number of smartphone users is expected to grow to more than 35
million by the end of 2017 from 5.6 million at end of last year,
according to research by Informa Telecoms & Media.  “The growth is fuelled by the declining prices of
smartphones, the expansion of  data networks  as well as
competitive data pricing,” Thecla Mbongue, an Informa Telecoms
& Media analyst, said in an e-mail.  Nigeria’s telecommunications companies, led by the local
unit of Johannesburg-based  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) , wield less power than
carriers in other African markets, making it easier and quicker
for Lenovo to release its products, Braum said.  “If you look at South Africa, 99 percent of the business
is done through the telcos and that’s a lot of work to do to
launch in a telco-based economy,” he said. “Lead time is up to
nine months to do all the planning, certification and you cannot
align with one network.”  Lenovo may sell its smartphones across as many as six price
bands in Nigeria and some could retail at about $500, Oliver
Ebel, vice president and general manager of Lenovo Middle East
and Africa, said in the same interview.  Huge Population  Ebel declined to specify which models will be sold in
 Nigeria , saying the phones will probably have large screen sizes
and a long battery life, possibly with the capability to charge
from other phones via a USB connection.  After Nigeria, Lenovo will target  Egypt  as part of its
African expansion, Ebel said. “It’s a huge population as well
with huge smartphone growth and it’s an open market,” he said.
Egypt has a population of about 84 million.  Lenovo shares rose 0.2 percent to HK$6.85 at the close of
trading in Hong Kong. The stock has slipped 2.4 percent this
year, valuing the Beijing-based company at HK$71.5 billion ($9.2
billion).  Microsoft Corp., trying to find growth markets for its
mobile products, is also planning to expand its smartphone sales
in Nigeria, according to Gustavo Fuchs, who runs its Windows
Phone business in Africa and  Middle East . The country’s
smartphone penetration has doubled every year and now stands at
10 percent, he said in an interview last week.  Africa’s handset ownership will grow to 85 percent of the
population in 2015 from about 73 percent last year, reaching 900
million users, A.T. Kearney estimates. Sales growth in developed
markets in Europe,  North America  and Asia has slowed as
penetration surpassed 100 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  