-- Herbalife Discloses Directors’ Distributor Pay After SEC Query
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2013-05-09T16:29:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/herbalife-discloses-directors-distributor-pay-after-sec-query.html
  Herbalife Ltd. (HLF) , the nutrition company
at the center of a battle between hedge-fund managers  Bill Ackman  and  Carl Icahn , was prompted by federal regulators in
March to disclose payments to two directors who are also
distributors.  Herbalife added the disclosure before filing its April 2
proxy statement, saying Director John Tartol was paid about $3
million in 2012 for mostly royalties and bonuses related to his
work as an distributor, according to correspondence with the
U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission made public today.
Director Pedro Cardoso earned $1.59 million, according to the
Cayman Islands-based company.  Tartol and Cardosa are part of Herbalife’s Chairman’s Club
of distributors, whose members Ackman, founder of New York hedge
fund Pershing Square Capital Management LP, has said are at the
top of an illegal pyramid scheme. The men earned the royalties
and bonuses from their work selling Herbalife products and
coaching other distributors.  Herbalife has repeatedly denied Ackman’s assertions, saying
it derives its profits from the sale of unique products.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said in an
April 2 letter that it had completed its review of Herbalife’s
preliminary proxy. The preliminary filing had showed only the
men’s director compensation.  The SEC also asked Herbalife in a March 21 letter to
include more details in its proxy statement of an arrangement
with Icahn that led to shareholders adding two directors
associated with the investor, who has come to Herbalife’s
defense. Herbalife previously disclosed that it had agreed to
increase its board to 11 directors and nominate two Icahn
designees.  Herbalife shares rose 1.8 percent to $44.44 at 12:28 a.m.
in  New York . They’ve advanced 33 percent this year before today,
compared with a 14 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  