-- Tesla’s Electric Model S Gets Consumer Reports Top Rating
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-05-09T20:19:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/tesla-electric-model-s-sedan-grabs-consumer-reports-top-rating.html
Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) ’s electric Model S,
Motor Trend’s 2013 “Car of the Year,” received the highest
rating from  Consumer Reports  in an evaluation of the luxury
sedan that led first-quarter North American plug-in car sales.  The Model S from  Palo Alto , California-based Tesla scored
99 out of 100 points, the non-profit magazine said in an e-mailed statement. The $89,650 car bought by Consumer Reports
“performed better, or just as well overall” as any vehicle
it’s ever tested, the Yonkers, New York-based magazine said.  “It accelerates, handles and brakes like a sports car, it
has the ride and quietness of a luxury car and is far more
energy efficient than the best hybrid cars,” said Jake Fisher,
 Consumer Reports ’ director of automotive testing, in a
statement. Still, the magazine said it isn’t recommending the
car yet as there isn’t enough reliability data so far to do so.  A favorable evaluation from the influential publication
comes after Tesla yesterday reported its first-ever profit in
the quarter that ended March 31. Tesla, led by billionaire Elon Musk, beat estimates for the quarter by delivering 4,900 units
of the Model S, which has a $69,900 base price, in 2013’s first
three months.  Net income was $11.2 million in the first quarter, compared
with a loss of $89.9 million a year earlier, Tesla said in a
statement on its website. Excluding some items, the profit was
12 cents a share, compared with a year-earlier loss of 76 cents.
The average  estimate  of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was
for a profit of 4 cents a share.  Highest Score  Tesla surged 24 percent to $69.40, a record closing price.
The shares have more than doubled this year, compared with a 14
percent gain in the Russell 1000 Index.  No rechargeable car has won a score as high as the Model S.
The magazine last gave a vehicle 99 points in 2007, when  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Lexus LS460L ranked that high, said Douglas Love,
a spokesman for Consumer Reports.  Among competing luxury cars, Consumer Reports said Porsche
AG’s Panamera received 84 points and Fisker Automotive Inc.’s
Karma plug-in hybrid got 57 points. Fisker Automotive stopped
making cars in 2012 and fired most employees in April.  Model S shortcomings include limited range, long charge
times and “coupe-like styling that impairs rear visibility and
impedes access,” Consumer Reports said. Along with reliability
that isn’t yet determined, Tesla still has a limited service
network, the magazine said.  ‘Most Practical’  The test vehicle had an 85-kilowatt/hour lithium-ion
battery pack and averaged about 200 miles (322 kilometers) per
charge in real-world driving, the magazine said.  The Tesla “is easily the most practical electric car that
has been tested to date,” Consumer Reports said. By comparison,
 Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Focus Electric and  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ’s Leaf
hatchback averaged about 80 miles and 75 miles, respectively,
per charge, the magazine said.  Based on electricity costs for charging, Consumer Reports
estimates fueling the Model S is equivalent to running a car on
gasoline that costs $1.20 a gallon. The average U.S. price for
regular grade gasoline was $3.54 a gallon on May 7, according to
AAA’s Daily Fuel Gauge report.  A review of the car appears in the July issue of Consumer
Reports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  