-- Eurocopter Gives Australia Free NH90 Chopper in Delay Accord
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-05-09T13:34:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/eurocopter-gives-australia-free-nh90-chopper-to-atone-for-delay.html
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co.’S  Eurocopter (EAD)  unit, the world’s largest helicopter maker,
will provide Australia with an extra NH90 model after the
program fell three years behind plan.  Australian Aerospace, Eurocopter’s local arm, will deliver
a 47th MRH90 multi-role version for free, the country’s defense
ministry said in a statement today, adding that the agreement
will help put the program “back on a positive footing.”  Australia ordered the MRH90 in 2005 and 2006 to replace
Bell Helicopter UH-1 and Sikorsky UH-60 troop transports and
AgustaWestland Sea King maritime machines. A series of glitches
including component failures on the RTM322 engine from  Safran SA (SAF) 
and  Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/)  delayed completion of the contract.  “Australia is a relatively harsh environment in which to
operate helicopters and the MRH90 has experienced some teething
problems,” the Department of Defence said in an e-mailed
response to questions.  Negotiations leading to today’s settlement were held under
 Australia ’s Projects of Concern framework, and could lead the
MRH90 program to be removed from the name-and-shame list by the
year’s end, the government said. The additional helicopter will
be used for training by army and navy technical personnel.  Australia has received 19 MRH90s and will take six to seven
per year through late 2017, the ministry said. The helicopter is
expected to reach its initial operational status with the navy
sometime in the middle of this year, it said.  Marignane, France-based Eurocopter, which is wholly owned
by European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co., said it welcomes
the breakthrough. The company’s Australian Aerospace unit
assembles the MRH90 at a plant in  Brisbane , Queensland.  Modifications being introduced to the helicopters included
a stronger cabin floor, better protection of windscreen and
engines, improving seats and the cargo hook, the ministry said.  Australia awarded a contract for 24 navy helicopters to the
MH-60R made by  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Sikorsky and  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT)  in 2011 after the MRH90 came under scrutiny.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  