-- Ex-N.Y. Lawmaker Huntley Gets Year in Prison for Graft
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-05-09T22:52:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/ex-n-y-lawmaker-huntley-sentenced-to-1-year-term-in-graft-probe.html
Former New York state Senator Shirley Huntley, who pleaded guilty to mail fraud conspiracy and tried
to help the government in a corruption probe, was sentenced to
one year in prison.  Huntley, 74, was sentenced today by U.S. District Judge
Jack Weinstein in  Brooklyn , New York, for stealing $87,700 from
her charity, the Parents Information Network. Weinstein said he
gave credit for her cooperating with the government by secretly
recording state lawmakers and other people. Huntley faced an
advisory range of as long as two years in prison.  “Huntley’s cooperation with the government evidences an
acknowledgment of a need for self-orientation toward law-abiding
conduct,” Weinstein said in a written order released after the
hearing. “Huntley’s effort to assist the government is offset
by the fact that she lied to the government, which refused to
submit a letter on her behalf at sentencing.”  As part of her cooperation effort, Huntley, of Queens,
recorded six state senators, New York City Councilman Ruben
Willis, and two former staff members, according to a letter
filed by her lawyer, Sally Butler, in a request for leniency.  The state senators included Bronx and Westchester County
state Senator Ruth Hassell-Thompson, Queens state senators Jose Peralta and Malcolm Smith, and Brooklyn state senators
Velmanette Montgomery, Eric Adams, and John Sampson.  Bribery Case  Smith was charged last month in a bribery case in
 Manhattan . Sampson pleaded not guilty this week to embezzlement
and other charges.  Adams, who is running for Brooklyn Borough President, said
he hasn’t been contacted about an investigation. Hassell-Thompson, Peralta and Willis also said they didn’t believe they
were targets of ongoing probes.  In court today, Butler said Huntley put herself at risk by
having “clandestine” meetings with the government, sneaking
investigators into her house and recording sometimes “dangerous
people.”  After the details of Huntley’s cooperation were revealed
when the letter was made public yesterday under an order from
Weinstein, the former lawmaker and her family have received
threats from people in their community, Butler said.  ‘Safety’ Concern  “I’m really concerned about her safety,” Butler said. “I
can’t say that enough.”  Assistant U.S. Attorney Paul A. Tuchmann told the judge
that some of Huntley’s information was credible and some wasn’t.  “She lied about certain topics, various topics, during her
meetings with the government,” he said.  Huntley, who served in the state Senate from 2007 to
December 2012, is accused of using some of her charity’s money,
much of which came from public grants, for personal purchases
and other unapproved spending. The charity was purportedly
intended to help educate parents about the New York City public
school system.  As a condition of a plea deal, Huntley agreed to pay
$87,700 to the state and $1,000 to the Port Authority of New
York and New Jersey for a separate bribery scheme involving a
cargo-handling business that sought space at John F. Kennedy
International Airport.  Separately, Huntley also faced charges in New York state
court in suburban Nassau County over her alleged used of another
nonprofit, Parent Workshop Inc., to divert about $30,000 in
public money to an aide and her niece. She was
sentenced to probation in that case.  Dozens of letters were submitted to Weinstein on her behalf
by friends, family members and members of the community,
praising her dedication as a public servant.  “It hurts me deeply to know that my mistakes have
tarnished the good things I have done over the years,” Huntley
said in court, while sitting at a table next to Butler and her
husband.  In a statement, Brooklyn U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch said
Huntley violated the public trust and betrayed her constituents.  “The crux of this case has always been defendant Shirley
Huntley’s greed and self-interest,” Lynch said.  The case is U.S. v. Huntley, 1:13-cr-00054, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  