-- Ex-Senator Gregg Said to Be Top Candidate to Lead Bank Lobby
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t
-- 2013-05-09T20:33:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/ex-senator-gregg-said-to-be-top-candidate-to-lead-bank-lobby.html
Former Senator  Judd Gregg  is a leading
candidate to run Wall Street’s biggest lobbying group, according
to people briefed on the discussions.  Gregg, 66, a New Hampshire Republican who retired from the
Senate last year, is being considered for the post as president
and chief executive officer of the Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association, said four people who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the matter isn’t public.  Gregg declined to comment. Sifma spokeswoman Cheryl Crispen
said the search for a CEO hasn’t been completed and declined to
comment further.  If chosen, Gregg would replace  Tim Ryan , who left for
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  earlier this year. Sifma’s head lobbyist,
Kenneth E. Bentsen, 53, has been acting CEO and also has been a
candidate for the top position, the people said. Bentsen is a
former Democratic U.S. representative from Texas.  The Sifma job is one of Washington’s highest-paid lobbying
positions. Ryan earned $3 million in compensation and benefits
in 2011, according to the trade group’s most recent tax filing.  Gregg was New Hampshire’s governor before running for
Senate in 1992. While serving as Budget Committee chairman, he
won $853,492 in the Powerball lottery in 2005 after buying a
ticket with five of the six winning numbers at a Washington gas
station.  Frequent Candidate  He nearly joined the administration of President  Barack Obama  in 2009 as Commerce Secretary. Shortly after the president
nominated him for the post, Gregg withdrew from consideration
because of disagreements with administration policy, including
the economic stimulus package pushed by Obama. Since retiring
from Congress, Gregg has been an adviser to  Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group
Inc. and serves on the board of Intercontinental Exchange Inc.  Gregg’s name has been mentioned as a candidate to run a
other trade groups, including the Financial Services Roundtable,
the  Business Roundtable  and the Private Equity Growth Capital
Council.  If Gregg receives the job he will be the third former
Republican governor to lead a banking trade group.  Frank Keating , former governor of Oklahoma, is present and CEO of the
American Bankers Association.  Tim Pawlenty , former governor of
Minnesota, is president and CEO of the Financial Services
Roundtable.  One of the biggest tasks faced by the new head of Sifma
will be to rebuild Wall Street’s image and credibility in
Washington, where the biggest banks have been blamed for
sparking the 2008 credit crisis and sending the  U.S. economy 
into a tailspin.  TARP Role  Lawmakers have reserved particular scorn for the largest
firms, including Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan, summoning their
executives to hearings and accusing them of reaping profits at
the expense of shareholders and customers.  Gregg was instrumental in crafting legislation that
authorized the $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program to
bail out banks. As a Senate Banking Committee member, he opposed
proposals to separate banks’ derivatives units and said the
Dodd-Frank legislation would reduce credit availability.  Sifma has played a major role helping the industry
influence the hundreds of Dodd-Frank regulations being written
at the  Federal Reserve , the Securities and Exchange Commission
and other agencies. The group is also taking a lead in fighting
legislative efforts to break up “too-big-to-fail” banks.
Members include Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan, Citigroup Inc. and  Bank
of America (BAC)  Corp.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  