-- Mexico Price Increase at 11-Month Low Supports Rate Cut View
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2013-05-09T16:42:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/mexico-price-increase-at-11-month-low-supports-rate-cut-view-2-.html
Mexican consumer prices rose by the
least in 11 months as Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB and UBS AG
joined traders in forecasting the central bank will cut the key
interest rate again this year.  Prices climbed 0.07 percent in April, the national
statistics agency said today, lifting  annual inflation  to 4.65
percent from 4.25 percent in March. The median estimate of 19
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for prices to rise 0.09
percent. Core prices, which exclude energy and agriculture
costs, rose 0.08 percent, compared with the 0.10 percent
forecast by 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The central bank forecasts that annual inflation will slow
back to within the 2 percent to 4 percent target range in the
second half of the year. The bank’s Governor Agustin Carstens
said yesterday lax monetary policies in developed nations and
slowing inflation will weigh on future rate decisions.  “Today’s number confirms our view that Banxico will cut in
July,” Alejandro Cervantes, an economist at Banorte, said in a
telephone interview from  Mexico  City. “After May it’s very
probable that annual inflation will return to its downward
trend.”  Policy makers cut the key rate for the first time in almost
four years in March, reducing it by half a point to 4 percent,
before leaving it unchanged on April 26.  Swap Rates    Yields on six-month swaps tied to the  interbank rate  fell
0.06 percentage point to 4.15 percent at 10:54 a.m. in Mexico
City, extending their drop since the day of the rate cut to 0.23
percentage point. The swaps indicate that traders are pricing in
about a 75 percent chance that policy makers will reduce rates
over the next six months.  Carstens told Radio Formula on April 29 that policy makers
may consider reducing borrowing costs if the annual inflation
rate falls below 4 percent. Three days later he said he hadn’t
intended to signal a future rate decision.  Banorte expects Banxico to reduce the benchmark rate by
half a point to 3.5 percent in July after the central bank said
in its quarterly report that faster inflation will be temporary
and growth may slow, according to a report e-mailed today. UBS
AG said on May 7 that Banxico will cut rates 50 basis points in
the second half, predicting a 25 basis-point cut at the bank’s
July and September meetings. Both banks had previously predicted
the central bank would keep rates on hold this year.  Capital Inflows  Yields on inflation-linked bonds maturing in December 2013
fell three basis points to 1.62 percent. The peso was little
changed at 11.9777 per  U.S. dollar  and has appreciated 7.3
percent this year, the most of 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  Mexico has attracted capital inflows, spurring the peso
rally, as central banks in  Australia , the euro region and  Poland 
cut their key rates to record lows in the past week.  Monetary policy  abroad “is a factor, among many, that this
board will consider,” Carstens said yesterday at a presentation
of the bank’s quarterly inflation report. “It’s a very
important phenomenon, but we can’t in any way say that it’s the
only factor that intervenes in our decisions.”  Enrique Alvarez , head of  Latin America  for fixed income
research company IdeaGlobal, said Mexico will probably reduce
 interest rates  once inflation begins to abate later this year.  “Carstens will make good on what he’s telegraphed over the
last few weeks, that they’ve got to get over the hump of higher
year-over-year inflation readings and, beyond that, the coast
probably clears for them to lower rates again,” Alvarez said in
a telephone interview from  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  