-- Mexico Sees Lax Global Monetary Policies Helping Determine Rate
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-05-09T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/mexico-sees-lax-global-monetary-policies-helping-determine-rate.html
Mexico  central bank Governor Agustin Carstens, who oversaw the first benchmark rate cut since 2009,
said lax monetary policies in developed nations and slowing
inflation will help determine future interest rate decisions.  Wealthier countries may find ways to further ease monetary
policy, Carstens said yesterday, after central banks in
 Australia , the euro zone and  Poland  cut their key interest rates
to record lows in the past week. Mexico has attracted capital
inflows, spurring a peso rally, even after cutting the benchmark
rate to an all-time low of 4 percent in March. Inflation will
probably slow toward the bank’s target range of 2 percent to 4
percent in June after accelerating in April and May, he said.  The bank’s outlook for inflation and a backdrop of global
monetary easing make it likely policy makers will cut rates by
another 50 basis points, or 0.5 percentage point, as soon as
July, said  Alonso Cervera , an economist at Credit Suisse Group
AG in Mexico City.  “It was reassuring to see central bank Governor Carstens
express confidence that the inflation shock will prove temporary
and that the central bank now expects even lower core inflation
for the next several quarters,” Cervera said in an e-mail.  Core Inflation  Banxico said in yesterday’s quarterly inflation  report  that
 core inflation , which excludes more volatile items like energy
and agricultural prices, may slow below 3 percent later this
year and next. The measure dropped to 2.88 percent in January,
the lowest in more than 30 years, before climbing to 3.02
percent in March. Carstens, in testimony at the Mexican Senate
on April 10, highlighted policy makers’ success in containing
core inflation, which fell within its target range three months
after he took office in January 2010.  Banxico sees the overall  inflation  rate, which climbed to
4.72 percent in the first half of April, dropping to below 4
percent in the second half of this year and “very close” to 3
percent in 2014, according to yesterday’s report. The bank
maintained its forecast for the economy to grow 3 percent to 4
percent this year and 3.2 percent to 4.2 percent in 2014.  Carstens told Radio Formula on April 29 that policy makers
may consider reducing borrowing costs if the annual inflation
rate falls below 4 percent. Three days later he said he hadn’t
intended to signal a future rate decision.  ‘Important Factor’  Monetary policy abroad “is a factor, among many, that this
board will consider,” Carstens said yesterday. “It’s a very
important phenomenon, but we can’t in any way say that it’s the
only factor that intervenes in our decisions. The fundamental
factor, the backbone of the process of reflection that the board
goes through, is how different factors influence the inflation
trajectory and in particular its convergence on the 3 percent
objective in the medium term.”  The March vote to lower the  benchmark rate  was the five-member board’s first split decision since it began publishing
minutes from monetary policy meetings in February 2011. One
board member dissented, saying lower interest rates could
threaten the inflation target.  Dovish Tone  “While the general tone of the report is still dovish,
it’s clear at the end that Banxico’s stance on monetary policy
is neutral,” Carlos Capistran, an economist at Bank of America
Corp., said in a phone interview yesterday from Mexico City.  The peso gained 0.4 percent yesterday to 11.9771 per U.S.
dollar, the strongest level since August 2011, after Fitch
Ratings raised Mexico’s credit rating to BBB+ on the prospect
that proposed legal changes will boost growth in Latin America’s
second-largest economy. The currency remains “very”
undervalued compared with its level in 2008, before the
financial crisis, and its rally isn’t hurting Mexican exports,
Carstens said.  Still, Mexico’s economy has shown signs of weakness and
faces risks from the U.S. and  Europe , Carstens said. Retail
sales surprised analysts in February by contracting for the
second time in three months. Mexico’s gross domestic product
will expand 3.5 percent this year, down from 3.9 percent in
2012, according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. U.S. GDP growth this year will ease to 2 percent from
2.2 percent last year, according to a separate Bloomberg survey.  Australia’s central bank cut its benchmark rate to a record
2.75 percent May 7, less than one week after the European
Central Bank cut its interest rate a quarter-point to 0.5
percent. South Korea cut its seven-day repurchase rate to 2.5
percent from 2.75 percent today.  After cutting its benchmark interest rate in March for the
first time since 2009, Banxico kept the overnight rate unchanged
at 4 percent on April 26. Policy makers’ statement accompanying
last month’s decision made no direct mention of a possible rate
move.  “Governor Carstens increased the dovishness of the tone by
stating two things, on one hand the downside risks for global
and domestic growth have increased; and second by emphasizing
the transitory nature of recent inflationary pressures,”
 Gabriel Casillas , chief economist at Grupo Financiero Banorte
SAB, said in an interview yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  