-- Mexican Peso Bonds Gain as Rate Cut Wagers Add to Fitch Upgrade
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-05-09T16:59:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/mexican-peso-bonds-gain-as-rate-cut-wagers-add-to-fitch-upgrade.html
Mexico ’s peso bonds gained, sending
yields to a record low, after Fitch Ratings upgraded the nation
one notch and as Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB projected the
central bank will reduce the key rate in July.  Yields on peso bonds due in December fell five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 3.74 percent at 11:15 a.m.
in Mexico City, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields
on six-month swaps tied to the interbank rate fell five basis
points to 4.16 percent, indicating traders are pricing in about
a 72 percent chance that policy makers will reduce rates over
the next six months. Yields on benchmark bonds due in 2024 also
reached record lows.  Fitch boosted Mexico’s credit rating one level yesterday to
BBB+, the third-lowest investment grade, as President Enrique
Pena Nieto rewrites laws to lure investment and bolster growth.
The central bank is likely to cut its benchmark rate by 0.5
percentage point to 3.5 percent at its July meeting, according
to a research report from Banorte analysts including chief
economist  Gabriel Casillas . Inflation accelerated to 4.65
percent in April from 4.25 percent in March, less than the 4.67
percent pace forecast by 16 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  The bond rally “has to do with the upgrade that Fitch
carried out,” Alejandro Padilla, a Banorte strategist, said in
a telephone interview from Mexico City. “The quarterly report
from the central bank was extremely dovish,” helping prompt his
bank to project a rate cut, he said.  The peso was little changed at 11.9817 per U.S. dollar
today, after yesterday reaching the strongest level since August
2011. The peso has soared 7.3 percent this year, the most among
16 major dollar counterparts tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  