-- Experian Reaches Record on Surprise Return of Cash: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-05-09T12:01:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/experian-reaches-record-on-surprise-return-of-cash-london-mover.html
Experian Plc (EXPN) , the credit-reporting
service with financial information on more than one-tenth of the
people in the world, rose to a record after announcing plans to
return more cash to investors than analysts expected.  The  shares  gained as much as 8.2 percent, the biggest
intraday advance in four years, and were up 5 percent at 1,231
pence at 12:29 p.m. in  London , the highest since the Dublin-based company became publicly traded in 2006. The stock was the
best performer in the benchmark FTSE 100 Index.  Experian plans to buy back $500 million of shares over the
next 12 months, including as much as $170 million to pay for
employee share plans due to vest. It announced a final  dividend 
of 24 cents, higher than the Bloomberg forecast of 23.25 cents.  “We will see higher dividends and an expansion of the
share buyback program,” Robin Speakman, an analyst at Shore
Capital, said in a telephone interview. “Experian will have
$1.3 billion of free cash in 2014-2015.”  Graham Brown at Canaccord Genuity Ltd., the only analyst of
19 tracked by Bloomberg with a sell recommendation on the stock,
hadn’t expected the buyback announcement, he said in a telephone
interview.  The shares are “expensive and increasingly risky” because
of the slowdown in the Brazilian economy, Brown said in a note.
 Brazil  accounts for about 35 percent of Experian’s organic
growth and about 23 percent of group profit, he said.  Latin America ’s largest economy will expand by at least 3
percent in 2013, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said in March.
That’s up from 0.9 percent last year and 2.7 percent in 2011.  Earnings Report  Experian reported full-year earnings and sales for the year
ended March 31 that were close to analysts’ estimates. Adjusted
net income was $847 million compared with the average estimate
of $843 million of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Revenue
was $4.73 billion compared with the average estimate of $4.75
billion from 14 analysts.  Organic growth of 8 percent last year was led by  North
America  and Latin America, Experian said in a statement. There
was strong demand for its fraud and identity theft products,
Chief Executive Officer Don Robert said on a conference call.  “Things are starting to look better in the U.K.,” Robert
said. “We are seeing cautious optimism on the part of our
clients.”  Impressive Growth  There aren’t many multibillion-dollar companies achieving 8
percent organic growth annually, said Speakman, who has a  buy
rating  on the stock. Experian is now more concentrated on the
use of data rather than credit and is a principal player in so-called big data, which helps customers mine vast amounts of
information, he said.  Organic growth could moderate slightly in the first half to
about 7 percent, Chief Financial Officer Brian Cassin said on
the call.  The stock has more than doubled since the company split
from GUS Plc in October 2006, giving the company a market value
of about 12.4 billion pounds ($19.3 billion). The volume of
shares traded exceeded the three-month daily average as of 12:35
p.m. local time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  