-- Exxon to Build $10 Billion U.S. LNG Export Plant With Qatar
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2013-05-09T20:20:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/exxon-to-build-10-billion-u-s-lng-export-plant-with-qatar-1-.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the largest energy
company by market value, signed an agreement with Qatar
Petroleum International to move forward with construction of a
$10 billion natural gas export terminal in  Texas .  The project will involve installing liquefaction equipment
at an existing import facility in Sabine Pass, Texas, according
to an e-mailed statement today from Golden Pass Products LLC, a
subsidiary formed by the two companies. It won permission last
year to export the fuel to nations with free-trade agreements
with the U.S. and is awaiting approval to send the fuel to all
other countries.  Exxon, based in Irving, Texas, and state-owned Qatar
Petroleum plan to ship as much as 15.6 million metric tons of
gas annually from the Golden Pass facility, according to the
statement. A boom in U.S. production has spurred several
proposals to export the fuel, which is cooled to liquid form at
-260 degrees Fahrenheit (-162 Celsius) to reduce volume and
allow for transportation by ship.  “This agreement sets out a highly competitive commercial
blueprint for Golden Pass Products, with a commitment that
builds on the unique combined strengths of QPI and  Exxon Mobil 
through the the global downstream LNG value chain,” Bill
Collins, president of Golden Pass, said in the statement.  Exxon has been expanding its worldwide gas portfolio with
acquisitions such as the 2010 purchase of XTO Energy in the U.S.
and investments in projects that include the A$52 billion ($52
billion) Gorgon LNG complex in  Australia . Gas accounted for half
of Exxon’s global production during the first three months of
this year.  U.S. liquefied natural gas import facilities have been
operating below capacity as a glut of domestic gas from shale
formations erased demand for foreign supplies. The import
terminal at Golden Pass began operations in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  