-- Fannie Mae to Pay Treasury $59.4 Billion After Record Profit
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-05-09T22:36:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/fannie-mae-to-pay-treasury-59-4-billion-after-record-profit-1-.html
Fannie Mae (FNMA) , the mortgage-financier
seized by U.S. regulators in 2008, will pay the Treasury
Department $59.4 billion after reporting a record  quarterly 
profit driven by rising home prices and declining delinquencies.  The government-sponsored enterprise, which is operating
under U.S. conservatorship, had net income of $8.1 billion for
the three-month period that ended March 31, according to a
statement released today. The Washington-based company’s net
worth, which is used to determine what it owes the U.S., was
boosted by a reversal of writedowns on tax credits, which may be
valuable now that it’s returned to profitability.  “Even the jaded can’t blink at Fannie’s upcoming
payment,” Jim Vogel, a debt strategist at FTN Financial in
 Memphis ,  Tennessee , said in a note to clients.  The profits will hurt the pace at which policy makers
decide what to do with Fannie Mae and rival Freddie Mac
“because they give the illusion” that mortgage finance “is a
great business,” Vogel said. “Well, it’s great at this point
in the cycle after you’ve wiped out years of accumulated equity
and stopped taking much credit risk.”  After its latest payment, Fannie Mae will have sent the
Treasury a total of $95 billion, compared with the $117.1
billion of capital infusions that the company has received.
Freddie Mac, which yesterday reported a $4.6 billion profit,
will have paid $36 billion, after drawing $72 billion of aid,
and Chief Executive Officer Don Layton said it may release $30.1
billion of tax-credit writedowns as soon as next quarter.  Debt Ceiling  The coming large payments from the companies will probably
help delay the amount of time the U.S. government has until
running out of room under its debt ceiling to sometime in
October, the Bipartisan Policy Center said today in a  posting  on
its website. The Washington-based group had  said  April 26 that
the limit was likely to be reached between mid-August and mid-October, most likely from early September to early October.  Still, based on the terms of their bailouts the companies
continue to owe the Treasury the amount that they’ve been
provided, and the agreements offer no way to repay.  The companies have returned to profitability as the housing
market recovered and they raised mortgage-guarantee fees, with
Fannie Mae’s net income last year exceeding that of companies
such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Prices Climb  U.S. home prices climbed at the fastest pace since May
2006, rising 9.3 percent in February from a year earlier,
according to an April 30 report by the S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of
property values.  Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae were seized in September 2008,
shortly before the failure of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and
the rescue of  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , as their rising
losses threatened to deepen a global financial crisis. The two
companies this year ceased paying 10 percent dividends that have
returned $65 billion to Treasury and will instead turn over any
profits above a permitted capital reserve.  Payments to Treasury by the two companies through fiscal
year 2023 are projected to exceed by $51 billion the aid they
have received under conservatorship, according to President
 Barack Obama ’s spending plan released last month. Last year’s
budget saw a $28 billion loss through 2022.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which were created by the
federal government before becoming publicly traded companies,
buy mortgages from lenders and package them into securities on
which they guarantee payments of principal and interest.  Hedge Funds  Hedge funds including Paulson & Co. have been pushing
Congress to abandon plans to wind down Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac as investors buy up preferred stock that has been soaring
after being considered probably worthless, people with knowledge
of the discussions have said.  One series of Fannie Mae’s preferred shares rose 7.8
percent today to $4.95, the highest since the firm’s seizure.
The notes, which have a face amount of $25, have tripled this
year. Fannie Mae’s riskier  common stock  fell 3 percent to 87
cents, and is up from 26 cents on Dec. 31.  Fannie Mae executives are telling employees that the
company’s future is uncertain, Chief Executive Officer Tim Mayopoulos said on a conference call with reporters. And, its
strong earnings may be delaying how long it will take for
lawmakers to provide more clarity, he said.  “There’s a risk that policy makers look at our
profitability and conclude they don’t need to take action with
respect to housing finance reform,” he said. “That would be a
mistake.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gregory Mott at 
 gmott1@bloomberg.net  