-- FBI Rejects Boston Police Stance in Spat Over Terror Data
-- B y   G r e g   F a r r e l l ,   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H o w l e y
-- 2013-05-10T18:21:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/fbi-fires-back-at-boston-police-in-spat-over-terror-leads.html
A skirmish between the FBI and the
 Boston  police erupted into public view after the bureau sought
to rebut a claim that police weren’t aware of a federal probe of
the alleged mastermind of the Boston Marathon bombing.  At a congressional hearing yesterday in  Washington , Boston
Police Commissioner Edward Davis said officers who served on
Boston’s Joint Terrorism Task Force, or JTTF, weren’t made aware
of the 2011 FBI investigation of Tamerlan Tsarnaev, or of the
suspect’s six-month trip to  Russia  last year.  In response, the FBI issued a statement saying police
members of the JTTF had complete access to all information
compiled by the agency related to potential terrorist suspects
through Guardian, software that manages the database.  “Boston JTTF members, including representatives from the
Boston Police Department (BPD), were provided instruction on
using Guardian, including suggestions on methods for proactively
reviewing and establishing customized searches, which would
allow them to be fully informed of all JTTF activity that may
affect Boston,” the FBI said yesterday in a statement.  The unusual back-and-forth between police and the FBI comes
a week after the Boston Police Department upstaged U.S.  law
enforcement  by announcing FBI arrests of three friends of the
alleged bomber.  Lack of coordination between BPD and federal law
enforcement was evident May 1 when the BPD’s public information
office wrote on Twitter just after 11 a.m. that three additional
suspects had been taken into custody.  Camera Crews  Camera crews and reporters flocked to Boston’s federal
courthouse. The office of Boston U.S. Attorney Carmen Ortiz
found itself besieged for several hours by reporters seeking the
identities of the three men. The complaints against the
University of Massachusetts-Dartmouth classmates of Dzhokhar
Tsarnaev were still under seal when the BPD statement went out.  The April 15 attack near the marathon’s finish line on
Boylston Street killed three people and injured more than 200
others. Suspect Tamerlan Tsarnaev, 26, was killed in a shootout
with police on April 19. His brother, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, 19, is
in federal custody facing capital charges.  Massachusetts  law enforcement and the Boston field office
of the FBI have a decades-long history of distrust and
resentment. The dissonance stems from the handling of James
“Whitey” Bulger, once the reputed head of an Irish-American
organized crime group in  New England , according to Jack Levin, a
professor of criminology at  Northeastern University  in Boston.  Commit Murders  Bulger, 83, was allegedly free to commit murders and sell
drugs from the 1970s to the 1990s because, unbeknownst to
Massachusetts state and local police, he was an FBI informant,
Levin said.  “Tension between the FBI and the Boston police has a long
history in this city,” he said. “The FBI was willing to
tolerate criminal behavior for the sake of getting information,
and all the police wanted to do was make an arrest.”  Bulger became a fugitive in 1994 after FBI Agent John Connolly, who had grown up with him in the projects of South
Boston, tipped him to a pending arrest. Bulger spent 16 years on
the run before being arrested in  California  in 2011.  The Sept. 11, 2001 attacks erased much of the bad blood as
state and federal law enforcement collaborated to combat
terrorism, said Paul Evans, Boston Police Commissioner from 1994
to 2003.  ‘On Fire’  “There used to be an old saying among the rank and file:
‘The FBI wouldn’t tell you if your coat was on fire,’” Evans
said. “A lot of that distrust evaporated after Sept. 11.”  Bulger faces trial next month for 19 murders. Last week he
lost his bid to claim that he had an immunity deal with the U.S.
Justice Department before he went underground.  Bulger said he won immunity from former U.S. prosecutor
Jeremiah O’Sullivan, who led organized-crime prosecutions
decades ago. O’Sullivan said during a congressional
investigation that he once excluded Bulger as a defendant in an
organized crime prosecution charging his gang with fixing horse
races.  Bulger has pleaded not guilty and denies he was ever an
informant.  Prosecutors argued Bulger’s immunity claim was a fantasy.
No Justice Department official can confer what amounts to “a
license to kill,” the government said in court filings.  Connolly was convicted of racketeering and obstruction of
justice in 2002, and later found guilty in a Bulger-related
murder.  Washington Testimony  In testimony yesterday before the House Homeland Security
Committee in Washington, Boston Police Commissioner Davis was
asked by Mike McCaul, the Texas Republican who chairs the
committee, about gaps in the country’s antiterrorism procedures.  The Russian government flagged the activities of Tamerlan
Tsarnaev to the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  and Central
Intelligence Agency in 2011. A three-month FBI probe into
Tsarnaev uncovered no derogatory information, according to the
bureau.  Six months after the FBI review, Tsarnaev traveled to
Russia. While the trip registered in a Homeland Security
Department database, it didn’t set off any red flags in the
system, McCaul said.  “What remains unanswered is whether this information was
shared between federal agencies and state and local officials,”
McCaul said.  Weren’t Aware  Davis testified that Boston Police officials who served on
the JTTF weren’t aware of the FBI’s investigation into the elder
Tsarnaev brother. They also didn’t know of his travels out of
the country, Davis said, adding that it was information he would
have liked to have had.  Davis said during a break in the hearing that the four
police department representatives on the JTTF had access to the
databases listing Tsarnaev. Those databases included the so-called TIDE, or Terrorist Identities Datamart Environment, and
the Treasury Enforcement Communications System, a database
maintained by the  U.S. Customs  and  Border Protection .  “Their names were in databases and these were databases we
had access to, but nobody indicated that there were high-level
government sources that were moving information back and
forth,” Davis said.  The case is U.S. v. Tsarnaev, 13-mj-02106, U.S. District
Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Greg Farrell  in  New York  at 
 gregfarrell@bloomberg.net ;
Janelle Lawrence in Boston federal court
at  jmlawrence@me.com ;
Kathleen M. Howley in Boston at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 