-- Fed to Keep Easing Pace for Bernanke Term, Brown Brothers Says
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-05-09T14:41:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/fed-to-keep-easing-pace-for-bernanke-term-brown-brothers-says.html
The Federal Reserve will refrain from
tapering its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases before the
end of Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s term in early 2014, according
to  Brown Brothers  Harriman & Co.’s  Marc Chandler .  The Federal Open Market Committee last week maintained its
commitment to buying assets under the quantitative-easing
stimulus strategy until there’s significant improvement in the
labor market even as speculation mounted that they would trim
purchases. Bernanke’s second term ends Jan. 31, 2014.  “I expect QE3 to continue all year,” Chandler, the New
York-based global head of currency strategy at Brown Brothers
Harriman, said in an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s
“Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “Bernanke is not going to be
the Federal Reserve chairman that tapers it off. It will come
under the next chairman, which will help the next chairperson
boost their own anti-inflation credibility.”  The dollar gained 0.5 percent to $1.3093 per euro at 10:24
a.m. in New York. The greenback appreciated 0.2 percent to 99.24
yen, after earlier weakening to 98.65 yen.  The Fed is not participating in the competitive  currency
devaluation  process being used by other global central banks and
still favors a “strong-dollar policy,” Chandler said.  “They will not use a weak dollar as a goal of policy to
try to influence our partners by using the dollar as a weapon,”
Chandler said. “Austerity is being forced within countries from
governments, squeezing the local population instead of going
after foreign wealth.”  The dollar has risen 2.5 percent this year, the best
performance after the New Zealand dollar’s 4.6 percent increase,
according to Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes that track
10 developed-nation currencies. The worst-performing yen slipped
12 percent, while the British pound fell 2.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  