-- Fed’s Plosser Says Dodd-Frank Won’t Curb Too-Big-to-Fail Risks
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-05-09T17:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/fed-s-plosser-says-dodd-frank-won-t-curb-too-big-to-fail-risks.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
President  Charles Plosser  said the Dodd-Frank Act may not curb
too-big-to-fail banks, and the current mechanism for unwinding
failing financial companies may lead to taxpayer bailouts.  The 2010 law should be augmented by enhanced bankruptcy
procedures instead by relying on the bill’s procedures for
unwinding troubled lenders, Plosser said today in remarks
prepared for a speech in New York.  While there are “some merits” to Dodd-Frank, “a more
standard bankruptcy mechanism, specialized for financial
institutions, would be more effective in addressing the too-big-to-fail problem,” Plosser said. The law’s resolution authority
“is likely to be biased toward bailouts.”  Fed officials and U.S. lawmakers are considering new ways
to limit the risk that the failure of a large bank will lead to
a taxpayer-funded rescue. The central bank is discussing ways to
limit the safety net and curtail balance-sheet expansion at the
largest banks, while senators from both parties are discussing
legislation that would tighten capital standards.  House Financial Services Committee Chairman  Jeb Hensarling ,
a Texas Republican, has said he favors a bankruptcy overhaul
over the Dodd-Frank Act’s resolution authority.  Senators  Sherrod Brown , an Ohio Democrat, and Republican
 David Vitter  of  Louisiana  announced legislation last month that
would impose a 15 percent capital requirement for the largest
banks, saying Dodd-Frank won’t prevent future bailouts.  ‘Moral Hazard’  “The current efforts may come up short,” Plosser said.
“If we are to end discretionary bailouts and the associated
moral hazard problems that they create, we should seek more
rule-like methods to resolve failing firms” using bankruptcy.  Plans for the resolution of distressed financial firms
under bankruptcy laws, known as “living wills,” have limited
effectiveness, Plosser said. The biggest U.S. banks have
submitted the first round of the wills to the Fed.  “I have doubts that regulators can realistically expect
firms to significantly reorganize their internal structure to
facilitate their own demise, certainly not in normal times,”
Plosser said. “Preparing a living will may open some firms’
eyes to needless complexity in their internal organization.”  Plosser’s view differs from that of Richmond Fed President
 Jeffrey Lacker , who said in a speech in New York today that
“living wills” outlining how to unwind banks are the best way
to prevent more government bailouts.  Too Big  Resolution planning is the “only approach I can envision”
to solving too-big-to-fail, Lacker said.  Plosser said large banks should be allowed to fail without
placing the financial system at risk and they should meet higher
capital standards to avoid becoming troubled.  “Large financial firms, and particularly their creditors,
should not be rescued or protected by government guarantees,”
Plosser said. “Increased  capital requirements  can lower the
incentive for financial institutions to become systemically
important and lower the probability that such firms will fail.”  Plosser, 64, became president of the Philadelphia Fed in
August 2006. He was previously dean of the business school at
the University of Rochester in  New York  state. The Philadelphia
reserve bank will next have a vote on policy decisions in 2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  