-- Evans Says He Wants to See Job Gains Extend Through Summer
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-05-09T16:36:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/fed-s-evans-says-job-gains-need-to-be-sustained-through-summer.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago
President  Charles Evans  said the U.S. job market is “doing
better” thanks to record policy stimulus, while adding that he
wants to see employment gains continue through the summer.  “During the time that we’ve been doing our asset-purchase
program, the labor market has improved, definitely,” Evans
said, speaking today in an interview with  Michael McKee  on
Bloomberg Television. “I’d like to have confidence that we can
sustain that improvement in the labor market through the
summer.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  pledged last week to slow
or speed up the pace of its monthly bond-buying in response to
changes in employment or inflation. A report last week showed
the jobless rate unexpectedly dropped to 7.5 percent in April
and payrolls grew by a greater-than-forecast 165,000. Revisions
to the prior two months’ reports added a total of 114,000 jobs
to the employment count in February and March.  “Our policies have been helpful,” said Evans, who votes
on the FOMC this year. “Auto-loan rates are lower,  mortgage
rates  are lower, and the economy’s beginning to pick up.”  The number of Americans filing claims for  jobless benefits 
unexpectedly dropped last week to the lowest level in more than
five years, a signal employers are confident enough in the
economic outlook to hold onto workers.  First Time  Applications for unemployment insurance payments decreased
by 4,000 to 323,000 in the week ended May 4, the least since
January 2008, Labor Department figures showed today. Economists
forecast 335,000 claims, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey. For the first time, the average over the past
month was the lowest since before the last recession began.  U.S. stocks fell following five successive records for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, which has rallied 14 percent this
year. The  S&P 500  declined 0.3 percent to 1,628.43 at 12:29 p.m.
in  New York . The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 1.8
percent from 1.77 percent late yesterday.  Evans, 55, has been among the most vocal advocates for
accommodative policy at the Fed, dissenting from FOMC decisions
in November and December 2011 while calling for more easing.  Monetary policy  is “leaning against a lot of headwinds,”
he said, such as cuts in  government spending  that slow economic
growth.  The FOMC said at the conclusion of its April 30-May 1
meeting that it will keep buying $85 billion a month in
Treasuries and mortgage bonds until it sees substantial
improvement in the labor market. At their March 19-20 gathering,
several Fed officials said the central bank should begin
tapering its purchase program later this year and stop it by
year-end, according to minutes of the meeting.  Early Advocate  Evans was an early advocate of tying the Fed’s zero
interest rate policy to economic indicators, a move that the
FOMC adopted in December. He also voiced support early for the
Fed’s current round of bond buying known as quantitative easing.  Evans today reiterated that he’s looking for monthly job
growth of at least 200,000 for six months. Payrolls have been
“averaging that” and he’s looking for the gains to continue,
he said, speaking on the sidelines of the Chicago Fed’s annual
banking conference.  Inflation has been “too low,” he said, adding that the
decline is “transitory” and “it’s too early” to respond with
a policy shift.  Other Fed officials have expressed concern about slowing
inflation in recent weeks. Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker 
said in April he would consider more stimulus if inflation is
projected to “sag further.” The Minneapolis Fed’s  Narayana Kocherlakota  called for guarding the Fed’s 2 percent inflation
target “from below,” and  James Bullard  of  St. Louis  said, “we
should defend the inflation target from the low side.”  Slowest Pace  Inflation was at 1 percent in March, marking the slowest
pace since 2009, according to the personal consumption
expenditures index, the Fed’s preferred gauge.  The Fed’s unprecedented bond purchases aren’t distorting
the market for U.S. Treasuries, Evans said.  “I’m not concerned we’re having an effect other than the
one we intend, which is to provide a slight reduction in
yields,” he said, adding he’s not “too concerned” about the
possibility that the Fed will provoke a bond market rout when it
starts to withdraw record accommodation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  Chicago  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  