-- Fed’s Lacker Says Living Wills Best Hope Against Bailouts
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s ,   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2013-05-09T17:01:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/fed-s-lacker-says-living-wills-best-hope-against-bailouts.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker  said broker-dealer units of banks
should have higher  capital requirements  than deposit-funded
subsidiaries because the financial crisis demonstrated the risks
that stem from a reliance on markets for financing.  Larger capital buffers have “great advantages,” Lacker
said today in response to a question after a speech to the
 Council on Foreign Relations  in  New York .  “I do favor increasing capital,” Lacker said. “Broker
dealers are an issue of very special concern just because of
historically the way they have funded themselves and because of
some other sort of special aspects of their legal status, and I
think they deserve special attention especially given what we’ve
just been through and the role they played in 2008.”  Lacker joins Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren  in calling
for lenders to hold more capital if they own a broker as central
bank officials and U.S. lawmakers plan ways to prevent another
taxpayer bailout of one of the biggest banks.  Rosengren said last month banks with broker-dealer units
should hold more capital because such businesses pose greater
risks during periods of financial duress.  Living Wills  Lacker said in his speech today that the best way to avoid
more taxpayer-funded rescues of failing banks is with “living
wills” that outline how troubled institutions might be unwound.  Resolution plans are the “only approach I can envision”
to solving too-big-to-fail, Lacker said in his speech, which was
abridged from  comments  he first delivered on April 9.  The effort to have large bank holding companies submit such
plans “will require more hard work and detailed analysis,”
Lacker said. “But I see no other way to reliably identify
exactly what changes are needed in the structure and operations
of financial institutions to end ‘too big to fail.’”  The 2010 Dodd-Frank Act required lenders to plan how they
would be wound down if they fail. The Fed said in March that 17
of the 18 largest banks could survive a deep recession while
maintaining enough capital to meet regulatory requirements.  Regulators seeking to reduce the chances of another
government rescue have required banks to retain some earnings
and reinforce their buffers against possible losses. New
international and domestic banking rules are also guiding banks
toward stronger capitalization.  Persistent Risk  Still, the risk of  bank failures  will always be present,
underscoring the necessity of writing living wills, Lacker said
in response to a question after delivering his speech.  “We’re unlikely to get to a situation where our capital
buffers are so large that the probability of eating through them
is driven to absolutely positively zero,” Lacker said. “You
need to have a plan for what happens when the capital is gone.”  U.S. stocks  are near a record, pushed higher by bank
shares.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.1 percent to
1,630.98 at 1 p.m. in New York after increasing 0.4 percent
yesterday to 1,632.69, a fifth-straight all-time high. Financial
firms are up 29 percent in the past year for the  second-best
gain  among 10 industry groups.  All but three  of 82 companies in
the S&P 500 Financials Index have advanced over the past 12
months.  Brown-Vitter Bill  Senators  Sherrod Brown , an Ohio Democrat, and Republican
 David Vitter  of Louisiana announced legislation last month that
would impose a 15 percent capital requirement for the largest
banks, saying that Dodd-Frank doesn’t prevent future bailouts.  The bill faces opposition. Senate Banking Committee
Chairman  Tim Johnson , a South Dakota Democrat, has said
regulators should finish work on Dodd-Frank before evaluating
whether it solves too-big-to-fail.  The panel’s top Republican, Idaho’s  Mike Crapo , has said
setting capital is a job for regulators not Congress. And House
Financial Services Committee Chairman  Jeb Hensarling , a Texas
Republican, has said he favors bankruptcy reform over downsizing
the largest lenders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in New York at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  