-- Feds Want to Spy on Tomorrow’s Technology
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2013-05-09T15:44:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/feds-want-to-spy-on-tomorrow-s-technology.html
Invent a new communications technology
recently? If so, beware: the U.S. government may require you to
build it in a way that will enable federal agents to eavesdrop
by court order. Otherwise, the  New York  Times’s Charlie Savage
 reports , you’ll end up paying a court-ordered fine.  If the requirement sounds reasonable to you -- maybe you
think you really “ didn’t build that ,” after all -- then think
again. Would the mail system, which was once private, have been
invented if its creators had been required to facilitate
censorship on every delivery route across  Europe ? What about
writing itself? Would you have invented it if you had been
forced to teach some Sumerian censor to read, and make every
clay tablet accessible to his (court-ordered) glance?  Of course, the U.S. has a long tradition of government
wiretapping of phone conversations. But it’s important to note
that this practice came about only after the telephone had been
invented. It is a very different thing for the government to
regulate existing technology than for it to dictate before the
fact what technologies may be permitted to exist.  Although the new proposal being vetted by the White House
doesn’t prohibit outright any technology that can’t be tapped by
the government -- an earlier proposal did -- the substitution of
fines for a ban doesn’t help much. If the fines are large enough
to be effective, they will have the same effect as a ban: to
create an incentive structure in which innovators cannot put
into practice any technology that wouldn’t be susceptible to
government surveillance.  To see why this proposal would stifle innovation, consider
that centralized technologies and surveillance come out of the
same intellectual and technological milieu. The phone line must
run through an interchange, and that is where a classic phone
tap was set up. The bottleneck was the locus of government
control in exactly the same way that the bottleneck was the key
to the functioning of early telecommunications technology: The
switchboard was all.  Today, decentralization is the name of the technological
game, from the famously decentered Internet itself to newer
communications techniques that run peer to peer, often
accompanied by decentralized encryption.  Central Control  Yet the modern government isn’t decentralized in the same
way -- and it never will be. Federalism, the decentralizing
impulse of the late 18th century, didn’t really withstand the
Age of Henry Ford. A government that was going to regulate
industry and labor, and fight wars abroad, had to be more
centrally powerful. The Federal Bureau of Investigation
eventually followed along with it. While local law enforcement
still does the vast bulk of ordinary policing, it typically
lacks the capacity to do national, let alone international,
investigations of the kind necessitated by networked crime.  A centralized security apparatus cannot fully monitor
decentralized communications. So the government’s impulse will
be to order the innovators to do its will -- by reasserting some
option of centralized surveillance. The cost to innovation can
be significant, since a whole new direction must be made to
conform to old norms.  The government’s best argument for potentially standing in
the way of innovation is, as always, necessity: It’s a dangerous
world, and someone has to police it. As a matter of cost-benefit, then, maybe the loss of technological and commercial
progress is outweighed by the gains to security.  Don’t bet on it -- or at least, don’t assume this argument
is any truer in this situation than the many others in which it
is made by the state. Criminals and terrorists operated
perfectly well before the Internet, and they will continue to do
so even if their communications aren’t totally secure. Indeed,
the smarter the bad guys get about realizing there is no true
privacy on the Web, the more they will resort to personal, face-to-face communications that will make their networks harder to
break. Osama bin Laden managed to hide for as long as he did
after the Sept. 11 attacks partly because he was from a
generation that was able to maintain telecommunications
discipline.  The government’s impulse here is driven less by a
particular security need than by the powerful state interest in
total surveillance, even where privacy rights demand a warrant.
It is the idea, not the reality, that is doing the work here --
and the idea is that someone somewhere might be able to
communicate without the government being able to listen.  It is sometimes suggested that the Web represents its own
civilization with its own anarchic structure -- Google Inc.’s
 Eric Schmidt  and Jared Cohen make the argument in a  much-hyped
new book , “The New Digital Age.” But old-fashioned state power
stands in the way of such an independent existence.  The state is not going to wither away, and that’s a good
thing. Yet we should be able to make sure it has good reasons
for restricting liberty and innovation -- or else that state
will cease to be our technology of governance, and become
something else entirely.  (Noah Feldman, a law professor at Harvard University and
the author of the forthcoming “Cool War: The Future of Global
Competition,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. Follow him on
Twitter. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman at  noah_feldman@harvard.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net  