-- Ferguson Picks Moyes as Man. United Successor: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-05-09T07:42:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/ferguson-picks-moyes-as-man-united-successor-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Ferguson Picks Moyes  Alex Ferguson  wants Everton’s  David Moyes  to succeed him as
Manchester United manager after the 71-year-old announced his
retirement, the  Sun reported .  Ferguson urged United’s board to move for Moyes, who held
emergency talks in London yesterday with Everton Chairman Bill Kenwright, the newspaper added. Kenwright said last night that
no deal was in place and that Moyes would be in charge for
Everton’s game against West Ham in three days, the Sun said.  United officials asked Ferguson for his recommendation and
are said to have looked no further when he endorsed Moyes, the
 Daily Express reported .  Five-Year Contract  Moyes will be appointed as early as today on a five-year
contract and will include Everton captain  Phil Neville , a former
United player, on his staff, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Moyes, 50, is expected to bring long-term United target
Leighton Baines with him to Old Trafford, the newspaper added.  Everton Job  Moyes’s move leaves Wigan Athletic’s  Roberto Martinez ,
former Everton player  Mark Hughes  and  Martin O’Neill  as his
potential successors at Goodison Park, the  Independent reported .  Rooney, Ronaldo  Wayne Rooney  has asked to leave United at a time when the
club is lining up the possible return of Cristiano Ronaldo from
Real Madrid, the  Daily Mail reported .  Rooney told Ferguson two weeks ago that he wants a fresh
challenge after growing frustrated with his role in the team,
the Mail said. United said last night that Rooney isn’t for
sale, the newspaper added.  David Gill, United’s outgoing chief executive officer, has
been in Madrid to meet Jorge Mendes, who represents Ronaldo, and
the Red Devils are confident of securing the return of the
player they sold to Real Madrid for a world record 80 million
pounds ($124 million) in 2009, the newspaper added.  Chelsea Target  Chelsea will compete with German champion Bayern Munich to
sign Rooney and will appeal to his desire to stay in England,
the  Daily Mirror reported .  Blues owner  Roman Abramovich  personally sanctioned a 30
million-pound move for the England forward and contact has been
made between Chelsea, United and Rooney’s representatives, the
newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  