-- Fidelity Follows Rivals With Reduced-Volatility Offering
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-05-09T16:46:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/fidelity-follows-rivals-with-reduced-volatility-offering.html
Fidelity Investments, the second-largest mutual-fund company, introduced a multi-asset-class
investment product that seeks to limit risk by avoiding sharp
swings in the value of its holdings.  The Fidelity VIP Target Volatility Portfolio, available
only through variable annuity and life insurance products, will
be managed by Xuehai En and Bob Vick, the Boston-based company
said today in a statement. The managers will invest mainly in
global stocks, U.S. investment-grade bonds and cash using
Fidelity mutual funds, exchange-traded funds and index futures,
according to the statement.  “Turbulent market swings like the ones we’ve witnessed
over the past decade can far exceed the risk tolerance of many
investors,” En said in the statement. “We believe managing
volatility provides the opportunity for more consistent returns
over time.”  Janus Capital Group Inc. (JNS) ,  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ)  and  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) 
are among rivals that have tried to lure investors out of
traditional bond and cash funds with products that promise lower
risk than stocks by spreading money across asset classes. Sales
of U.S. asset-allocation funds peaked at $59 billion in 2004,
two years after the collapse of the technology-stock bubble.
Investor deposits rose to $25 billion in 2012 from about $14
billion in each of the previous two years, according to Chicago-based  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)   The new Fidelity product will target 10 percent volatility
over rolling one-year periods. The managers will use a blended
benchmark that has a 42 percent weighting in the Dow Jones U.S.
Stock Market Index, 18 percent in the MSCI EAFE Index of
developed-market non-U.S. stocks, 35 percent in the Barclays
U.S. Aggregate Bond Index and 5 percent in the Barclays U.S. 3-Month Treasury Bellwether Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  