-- Bangladesh Building Collapse Death Toll Reaches 1,000
-- B y   A r u n   D e v n a t h
-- 2013-05-09T21:41:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/fire-at-bangladesh-garment-factory-kills-at-least-7-people.html
The death toll from the collapse of a
garment-factory building in  Bangladesh  two weeks ago has risen
to 1,000 while a fire at a clothing factory in Dhaka killed at
least eight.  The new toll at the Rana Plaza complex was confirmed today
over the telephone by Shahnewaz Mohammad Golam Zakaria, an army
captain in a control room supervising the rescue operation.  Garment factories in Bangladesh are facing increased
scrutiny after the collapse at Rana Plaza, the country’s worst
industrial disaster, and a November fire that claimed 112 lives.
Last month’s tragedy prompted the government to shut factories
and an overseas retailer to stop accepting clothing from the
country.  The latest fire broke out at  Tung Hai Sweaters Ltd. ,
killing the owner of the factory, according to Nazrul Islam, a
spokesman for the Bangladesh Fire Service. The company’s
executives were having a meeting and there were no workers
inside as the plant was closed for the night, according to
police inspector F.M. Kawsar Ahmed.  The fire started on the second floor of an 11-story
building, where the Tung Hai Sweaters factory is located, said
Ataur Rahman, a duty officer for Bangladesh Fire Service and
Civil Defence. The flames spread fast as the factory produced
sweaters and stored raw materials that were highly combustible,
he said.  Smoke Inhalation  Those killed were on the building’s upper floors and died
from smoke inhalation, according to Rahman, who said officials
are investigating the cause of the fire. Mahbubur Rahman,
managing director of Tung Hai Sweaters, was among those who
died, according to Appolo Hospitals manager Mafizul Islam.  The company’s parent, Tung Hai Group, was established in
1994 and has 7,000 employees, according to its  website . The
group makes knitted sweaters, t-shirts, polo shirts, tank tops,
fleece, pajamas and children’s wear. Tung Hai Group has three
manufacturing sites in Bangladesh and has annual sales of more
than $50 million.  Recurrent industrial disasters in the garment industry as
well as continued political tensions are “credit negative” for
Bangladesh because they may further damage investor confidence
in the country, Moody’s Corp. said yesterday in a statement. The
industry accounts for 80 percent of the country’s total exports
and employs more than 3 million people, Moody’s said.  Workers’ Rights  The Bangladesh government, workers, employers and the
International Labour Organization agreed to a plan to improve
workers’ rights and safety. The 27-nation European Union is
considering action under its trade rules to encourage changes in
supply-chain operations.  Two factories in Chittagong and 16 in the capital Dhaka
were ordered to shut operations, and the government will close
any plant that’s found to be unsafe during inspections, Abdul
Latif Siddique, minister for textiles, said earlier this week.  Retailers including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  J.C. Penney
Co. (JCP) , along with labor activists, have been considering an
agreement to improve factory safety in Bangladesh for at least
two years.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , the world’s largest entertainment
company, removed Bangladesh in March from a list of countries
where partners can produce clothing and merchandise, according
to a letter to licensees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arun Devnath in Dhaka at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  