-- Four Men Found Guilty in Zetas Money Laundering Trial
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-05-10T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/four-men-found-guilty-in-zetas-money-laundering-trial.html
Four men were convicted at a trial
involving a money-laundering scheme by the Los Zetas drug gang
that included buying, training, breeding and racing horses in
the U.S., the  Justice Department  said.  Each of the men was found guilty of one count of conspiracy
to commit money laundering, a crime punishable by as long as 20
years in prison, U.S. Attorney Robert L. Pitman in San Antonio,
said yesterday in a statement. The  jury trial  was held in
Austin, the  Texas  state capital.  One of the men convicted, Jose Trevino Morales, 46, is the
brother of alleged Los Zetas leaders Miguel Trevino Morales and
Oscar Omar Trevino Morales, Pitman said in the statement.  “This trial documented the violence, brutality and
corruption generated by Mexican drug cartels, in this case the
particularly ruthless Los Zetas,” Pitman said.  “The government was able to show how the corrupting
influence of the drug cartels has extended into the  United
States  with cartel bosses using an otherwise legitimate domestic
industry to launder proceeds from drug trafficking and other
crimes.”  An indictment against all three of brothers and 11 other
people was unsealed last year.  Funneling Cash  Beginning in 2008, Miguel and Oscar Trevino Morales
funneled cash from illegal drug sales to Jose Trevino-Morales
and his wife to buy, train, breed and race the horses, using
front companies to hide the cartel’s ownership, the government
said. The indictment identified transactions valued at millions
of dollars in  New Mexico ,  Oklahoma ,  California  and Texas.  The now-convicted brother, Jose Trevino Morales, was a
resident of Balch Springs, Texas, according to the U.S. Also
found guilty in the 12-day trial were Mexican businessman
Francisco Colorado Cessa, 52, horse trainer and purchasing agent
Fernando Solis Garcia, 30, and trainer Eusevio Maldonado
Huitron, 49.  Trainer Jesus Maldonado Huitron of Austin was acquitted,
prosecutors said. The brother of Eusevio, he had been added to a
revised indictment in December.  No sentencing date has been set for the men found guilty,
according to Pitman.  ‘Bitter Disappointment’  “It was a bitter disappointment,” Solis Garcia’s lawyer,
Guy Womack, said in a phone interview. “I don’t think the
evidence was there.”  Even if they believed Jose Trevino Morales and Colorado
Cessa were in some way dealing with the Zetas, Womack said of
the jury, there’s no way that either of those men would have
revealed that to his client.  “It was certainly guilt by association,” Womack said. He
said he will appeal the verdict.  Mike DeGeurin, a lawyer for Colorado Cessa, said his client
“is a good man.”  “This conviction is tragic,” DeGeurin said in an e-mail.
“He is loved by all who know him. His love for horses put him
in the circumstances that included him in this technical  money
laundering  conspiracy trial.”  More than 400 quarter horses seized in June as part of the
money-laundering operation have been sold for about $9 million,
Pitman said.  The government still has nine quarter horses, Pittman said,
including Mr. Piloto, the 2010 $1 million All American Futurity
Winner -- billed as the  World’s Richest Quarter-horse Race  -- in
Ruidoso Downs, New Mexico, and Tempting Dash, which won the Lone
Star Park race track Dash for Cash in October 2009.  Seven of the defendants, including Miguel Trevino Morales
and Oscar Trevino Morales, remain at large, Pitman said. Five
people, including Jose Trevino Morales’ wife and daughter, have
entered guilty pleas and await sentencing.  The case is U.S. v. Morales, 12-cr-00210, U.S. District
Court, Western District of Texas ( San Antonio ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  