-- Freddie Mac Plans to Begin Sales of Non-Agency Home-Loan Bonds
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-05-10T04:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/freddie-mac-plans-to-start-sales-of-non-agency-mortgage-bonds.html
Freddie Mac  plans to begin selling
home-loan bonds without U.S. backing from its holdings as rising
property prices help boost their value.  The government-controlled mortgage financier that’s
returned to  profitability  after requiring a taxpayer-funded
rescue during the credit crisis is offering $1 billion of  non-agency securities  from its $121.5 billion portfolio this month,
said Tom Fitzgerald, a spokesman. McLean, Virginia-based Freddie
Mac expects to sell another $1 billion in June and may offer as
much as $5 billion in all this year, he said. Any sales after
next month would depend on further appreciation in the
securities.  “We’re planning the sales to take advantage of the strong
 improvement  in bond prices” and to meet a regulatory goal of
reducing holdings of illiquid assets, Fitzgerald said yesterday
in a telephone interview.  Losses on the securities contributed to the government’s
decision to seize  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  and rival Fannie Mae in September
2008 in a bid to stabilize financial markets as foreclosures
soared. In March, executives at the companies were given a goal
of selling off at least 5 percent of illiquid holdings this year
as the  Federal Housing Finance Agency  seeks to make the firms
smaller. Those assets are separate from Freddie Mac’s guarantees
on $1.6 trillion of debt that’s held mainly by others.  Housing Recovery  Non-agency securities returned almost 7 percent in the
first four months of 2013 as the  housing recovery  strengthened
and investors sought higher-returning debt with the  Federal
Reserve  suppressing bond yields by buying government-backed
notes to stimulate the economy, according to Amherst Securities
Group LP data. The debt gained about 21 percent last year, with
some subprime-tied notes rising more than 40 percent.  Along with the $121.5 billion of non-agency securities,
illiquid assets on Freddie Mac’s balance sheet in March included
$212.5 billion of loans, much of which was delinquent or
modified debt, according to  data  released monthly by the
company. It also held about $200 billion of agency securities
guaranteed by itself,  Fannie Mae  or U.S.-owned Ginnie Mae.  Freddie Mac reported $4.6 billion in first-quarter net
income on May 8, the second-biggest quarterly profit in its
history. The company said it would pay $7 billion to the
Treasury by June 30, bringing its dividends to the government to
$36 billion, compared with the $72 billion in aid it drew to
remain solvent.  Fannie Mae, which is based in  Washington , said yesterday
that it posted $8.1 billion in net income last quarter, and
would pay $59.4 billion to the Treasury after reversing
writedowns on tax credits. Neither firm is allowed to pay down
the amounts they owe to the government under the terms of their
bailouts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  