-- Glencore Buys Forties Crude; Mediterranean Urals Exceeds Brent
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2013-05-09T16:56:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/glencore-buys-forties-crude-mediterranean-urals-exceeds-brent.html
Glencore Xstrata Plc bought a cargo of
 North Sea  Forties crude at the highest differential in more than
two months.  Russian Urals crude exceeded the cost of the Dated Brent
benchmark in the Mediterranean for the first time in more than
eight months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  North Sea  Glencore purchased Forties lot F0519 from Royal Dutch Shell
Plc for loading May 26 to May 28 at 5 cents a barrel more than
Dated Brent, a Bloomberg survey of traders and brokers
monitoring the Platts pricing window showed. That compares with
an April 30 trade at 35 cents less than the benchmark and is the
highest since Feb. 28, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The traded cargo was deferred by two days, according to two
people with knowledge of the loading program, who asked not to
be identified because the information is confidential.  China National United Oil Corp., or Chinaoil, failed to
sell the grade at 40 cents less than Dated Brent for May 21 to
May 23 loading, the survey showed.  Statoil ASA sold Oseberg to BP Plc for loading June 1 to
June 3 at 90 cents more than than Dated Brent. The cargo has
been deferred by three days, according to two people with
knowledge of the schedule.  Reported crude trading typically occurs during the Platts
window, which ends at 4:30 p.m. London time. Forties loading in
10 to 25 days fell by 24 cents to 5 cents a barrel more than
Dated Brent. Yesterday’s level was the highest since Feb. 14,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Brent for June settlement traded at $104.01 a barrel on the
ICE Futures  Europe  exchange at the close of the window, compared
with $103.88 yesterday. The July contract was at $103.77 at the
same time today, a discount of 24 cents to June.  Mediterranean/Urals  Statoil bought Russian Urals crude from Shell at 70 cents a
barrel less than Dated Brent on a delivered basis to Rotterdam,
the Platts survey showed. That compares with a April 19 trade at
minus $1.20 and is the highest since Dec. 20, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Petroineos, the joint venture between PetroChina Co. and
Ineos Group Holdings SA, sold CPC blend to BP Plc at $1.05 a
barrel less than Dated Brent, the survey showed.  Urals in the Mediterranean rose by two cents from yesterday
to a premium of 1 cent a barrel to Dated Brent, the first time
it has been at a premium since Aug. 20, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. In northwest Europe, the  discount  was at 52
cents a barrel compared with 53 cents yesterday. That’s the
least since Nov. 5, the data show.  Iraq restored crude exports to  Turkey  today after repairing
a pipeline damaged by a sabotage attack in the northern city of
Mosul, the state-run North Oil Co. said. Shipments from the port
of Ceyhan on the eastern  Mediterranean Sea  resumed at an average
flow of 335,000 barrels a day, the company said in a statement.  The link was damaged yesterday by an explosive charge,
North Oil said.  West Africa  Benchmark Nigerian Qua Iboe blend fell by 5 cents to $3.45
a barrel more than Dated Brent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  