-- Pimco Raises Treasuries Holdings to Highest Level Since 2010
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-05-09T21:14:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/gross-raises-pimco-s-treasuries-holdings-of-highest-since-2010.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross  raised the holdings of Treasuries in his flagship
fund at to the highest level since July 2010 while warning that
investors face potential losses from central-bank policies.  The proportion of U.S. government securities in the $292.9
billion Total Return Fund increased to 39 percent in April, from
33 percent in March, according to data on Newport Beach,
California-based Pimco’s  website . Mortgage holdings rose to 34
percent, from 33 percent in March, which was the lowest level
since August 2011. The company doesn’t comment directly on
monthly changes in its portfolio holdings.  Gross, the founder of Pimco and manager of the world’s
biggest bond fund, has been advising investors to sell riskier
assets and buy government debt, including inflation-linked
securities and nominal Treasuries as central banks pursue
unprecedented stimulus measures.  Treasuries, for now “are a better alternative than cash,”
Gross wrote in his monthly investment outlook on May 1.
“Current policies come with cost, even as they magically float
asset prices higher. Negative real  interest rates , inflation,
 currency devaluation ,  capital controls  and outright default”
are among the costs, or ”haircuts,” from global central banks’
unprecedented monetary stimulus.  Central Banks  Other central banks around the world are pursuing monetary
policies similar to the U.S. Federal Reserve to boost domestic
economic growth. The U.S. has held its target interest rate at a
record low zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008 and spent
$2.3 trillion purchasing Treasury and mortgage-related debt from
2008 to 2011 in the first two rounds of quantitative easing. The
Fed buying this year has been divided between $40 billion a
month of mortgage-backed securities and $45 billion a month of
 Treasury securities .  The  European Central Bank  last week cut its key interest
rate to a record low 0.5 percent from 0.75 percent. Australia
cut borrowing costs to a record this week and India and South
Korea trimmed borrowing costs this month.  The  Bank of Japan  on
April 4 announced it would double monthly bond purchases. The
dollar today strengthened beyond 100 per yen for the first time
in four years.  Fund Returns  Gross reduced his holdings of non-U.S. developed nations’
debt to 10 percent in April from 11 percent the previous month.
Investment-grade credit holdings were cut to 7 percent from 9
percent.  The portion of the Total Return Fund’s emerging-market debt
increased to 8 percent in April, from 7 percent in March.
Municipal-bonds holdings were steady at 5 percent. The fund’s
net cash-and-equivalent position was at negative 8 percent,
compared with negative 3 percent the previous month.  The fund returned 6.74 percent over the past year, beating
90 percent of its peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It returned 0.27 percent in the past month, beating
54 percent of its peers.  The  Total Return Fund (PTTRX) ’s government and Treasury debt
category includes fund holdings of U.S. Treasury notes, bonds,
futures and inflation-protected securities.  Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE (ALV) ,
managed $2.04 trillion in  assets  as of March 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  