-- Groupon Surges as Sales Top Estimates on Mobile: Chicago Mover
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-05-09T20:50:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/groupon-surges-as-sales-top-estimates-on-mobile-chicago-mover.html
Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  shares jumped the most in
more than two months after the daily deal website’s first-quarter revenue surpassed analysts’ estimates, buoyed by
increased coupon sales through its mobile applications.  Groupon  shares  rose 11 percent to $6.23 at the close in New
York, the biggest gain since March 1. The stock has advanced 28
percent this year, compared with a 14 percent gain in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Co-Chief Executive Officers Eric Lefkofsky and Ted Leonsis
have helped stabilize the company while they search for a
replacement for Andrew Mason, the Groupon co-founder they ousted
as CEO in February amid faltering growth. The company’s apps for
mobile devices and new personalization features are helping
Groupon expand its share of the daily deal market, said  Tom Forte , an analyst at Telsey Advisory Group in New York.  “They are taking share of the North American deals market
from LivingSocial and from Google,” Forte said in an interview.
“They outperformed against some modest expectations.”  First-quarter sales rose 7.5 percent to $601.4 million, the
Chicago-based company said yesterday in a statement. Analysts on
average projected $591 million, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. The net loss narrowed to $3.99 million, or 1 cent a
share, from $11.7 million, or 2 cents, a year earlier. Analysts
had estimated a loss of 2 cents.  Revenue in the current period will be $575 million to $625
million, the company said in the statement. That compares with
an average analyst estimate of $617.7 million.  Mobile Sales  North American revenue in the first quarter climbed 42
percent to $339.6 million, while  international  sales fell 18
percent to $261.8 million. That drop also represented the fourth
straight sequential decline in overseas revenue.  Coupons sold on mobile devices accounted for 45 percent of
all transactions in North America in March, up from less than 30
percent a year earlier, the company said. The increase was
driven by product improvements such as mobile search as well as
growth in the number of local deals offered via wireless
devices, Chief Financial Officer Jason Child said in an
interview.  “Mobile is the key story in North America,” Child said.  The company makes money by offering consumers discounts --
known as Groupons -- from businesses such as restaurants and
nail salons. It then shares the revenue with the businesses.  Groupon Goods  Groupon Goods, a service started in 2011 to help retail
companies such as  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Garmin Ltd. (GRMN)  peddle thousands of
marked-down items via two-day sales, totaled $165.4 million in
billings in the first quarter, more than double from a year
earlier, when the unit contributed $78.2 million in billings.
Billings represent the total value of items sold through the
site.  Mason was fired on Feb. 28, a day after the company
forecast first-quarter sales that missed estimates, causing the
stock to plunge 25 percent. Pressure had been mounting on
Groupon to seek a new CEO as Mason struggled to cope with a drop
in coupon demand.  While the board has formed a committee and started the
process of looking for a new CEO, Leonsis said Groupon isn’t
going to make a rushed decision.  “The search is under way,” he said on a conference call.
“We’re not in a hurry. The leadership team is very strong and
is gelling very nicely.”  Lefkofsky and Leonsis have emphasized making Groupon more
transparent with more disclosures to investors, Child said. The
co-CEOs have also narrowed the company’s focus, he said.  “You are seeing us now focus on a smaller number of things
that will have impact in 2013,” Child said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  