-- TIAA-CREF Hires Leary to Oversee $505 Billion Portfolio
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-05-09T16:57:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/tiaa-cref-hires-ing-s-leary-to-oversee-505-billion-portfolio.html
TIAA-CREF, the provider of retirement
accounts for teachers and non-profit organizations, named Robert Leary as president of the asset-management business that has
been expanding by overseeing funds for institutional investors.  Leary, who will manage about $505 billion, was previously
at ING Groep NV’s U.S. unit and will report to Chief Executive
Officer  Roger Ferguson , New York-based TIAA-CREF said today in a
statement. The post was held by Scott Evans, whose departure was
announced in 2012. Carol Deckbar, the asset-management chief
operating officer, filled the position in the interim.  TIAA-CREF has been adding business with institutional
clients to generate fees, diversify its holdings and scale up in
some asset classes. It announced a venture with  Norway ’s
sovereign wealth fund in February to buy office buildings and
last year created a company that pools institutional money for
investments in farmland in the U.S., Australia and  Brazil .  Leary “will drive the group’s strategy across investments,
distribution and operations, and help expand the company’s
third-party business,” TIAA-CREF said in the statement.  The asset-management business has about $240 billion in
fixed-income investments, $214 billion in equities, $33 billion
in real estate and the remainder in so-called alternative
assets, such as agriculture, energy, and private-equity, the
company said. The unit oversees funds that back members’ life-insurance policies and retirement accounts in addition to
institutional money.  The company’s CREF Stock Account has posted an average
annual return of 8.26 percent in the 10 years through April 30.
That compares with 8.56 percent for a composite index used by
the company as a benchmark, according to data on TIAA-CREF’s
 website . The Stock Account had about $113 billion in net
invested assets as of March 31.  AIG, JPMorgan  Leary will start June 24, according to the statement. He
joined ING in 2007 and most recently served as president and
chief operating officer, leading the company’s investment
management, retirement, insurance and annuity business.  ING sold a stake in its U.S. operations this month in an
initial public offering as a condition for European Union
approval of its 2008 bailout from the Netherlands. The company,
ING U.S. Inc., will eventually be renamed Voya Financial.  Leary has also held positions at  American International
Group Inc. (AIG) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and White & Case LLP, according
to the statement. He earned a bachelor’s degree in political
science from Union College in Schenectady,  New York , and a law
degree from  Fordham University .  “We look forward to his leadership as we work to meet the
evolving needs of our individual and institutional clients,”
Ferguson said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  