-- IAG Flush With Cash for Market Downturn: Corporate Canada
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-05-09T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/iag-flush-with-cash-for-market-downturn-corporate-canada.html
Industrial Alliance Insurance and
Financial Services Inc . is poised to continue outperforming
Canadian insurance peers as it shores up capital to guard
against a decline in stocks.  IAG, as the insurer is known, gained 19 percent this year
after raising its capital ratio to a level higher than
competitors including  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) , the largest
Canadian life insurer by market value. The increased capital
safeguards IAG, whose earnings are more sensitive to interest
rates and stock prices than peers because they rely more on
long-term products.  “It’s a cushion against any worst-case scenario,”  Mario Mendonca , an analyst at Canaccord Genuity Inc. in Toronto, said
in a phone interview May 7. “As an insurer, their earnings’
sensitivity to economic factors is still high, except now they
have this trove of equity to fall back on.”  Quebec City-based IAG, the smallest Canadian insurer,
issued C$237.4 million ($236.7 million) in common shares in
February, raising its so-called continuing capital and surplus
requirements ratio to 238 percent, according to Canaccord.
Toronto-based Manulife,  Canada ’s largest insurer and owner of
Boston-based John Hancock Financial, has a capital surplus ratio
of 217 percent.  Sun Life Financial Inc. (SLF) , the No. 3 insurer, was
at 209 percent at the end of 2012.  The government requires insurers carry a surplus ratio of
150 percent. When equities decline and  interest rates  are
depressed, insurers’ liabilities can increase on contracts in
which they guarantee minimum returns.  Earnings Release  Industrial Alliance Chief Executive Officer Yvon Charest
wasn’t able to comment because the company  reports  first-quarter
results today at 9 a.m. and is in its so-called quiet period,
said Pierre Picard, a company spokesman. IAG is expected to
report profit of 79 cents a share, adjusted for certain items,
based on the average estimate of 11 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey. It reported adjusted profit of 71 cents a share in the
year earlier period.  IAG is Canaccord’s preferred life insurance stock and
Mendonca rates it a hold.  IAG’s record-high ratio “improves the likelihood of
viability in a difficult environment,” said Ian Cooke,  fund
manager  at QV Investors Inc., which runs C$7 billion for Sentry
Select Capital Corp. including IAG shares. “It provides comfort
for regulators, customers, and for investors.”  Share Sale  The insurer’s  sale  of 6.3 million shares that closed on
Feb. 27 led  Standard & Poor’s  to revise the outlook on its A+
rating to stable from negative. Manulife is rated A- and Sun
Life is at A.  “Management has taken a number of proactive steps to
strengthen its capital position,” S&P credit analyst David Zuber said in a Feb. 20 note.  “Insurance has been a tough space to be in for a number of
years,” QV’s Cooke said in a phone interview from Calgary.
“The low interest-rate environment has hampered profitability
and challenged businesses.”  IAG, which has a market value of C$3.64 billion, fell 0.9
percent to C$37.20 yesterday in Toronto. The 19 percent gain
this year compares with 16 percent for Manulife and 12 percent
for Sun Life.  Great-West Lifeco Inc. (GWO) , the second-biggest
insurer, jumped 16 percent.  Over the past five years, IAG has risen 17 percent,
including  dividends,  compared with declines of 17 percent for
Sun Life and 49 percent for Manulife. The average target price
for IAG for the next year as forecast by 11 analysts is C$38.91,
or 4.6 percent higher than yesterday. Four analysts rate the
company a buy while seven say hold, with one sell.  Greatest Risk  “IAG has had a couple of quarters now of earnings
improvement and we see that trend continuing,” said Bruce Campbell, portfolio manager at Stone Castle Investment
Management Inc., which oversees C$100 million including IAG
stock. “We’re seeing improvement in equity markets and that
improvement tends to lead to more sales in higher margin
products for Industrial Alliance.”  To be sure, the company is the most exposed to interest
rate changes among its competitors. A larger portion of IAG’s
sales is made up of so-called universal life products, according
to  Peter Routledge , an analyst at National Bank Financial in
Toronto. The company manages these long-term investment
products, opening the risk that the company’s assumption of
interest rates will be wrong, Routledge said.  The Canadian benchmark overnight rate, which has been 1
percent since September 2010, won’t rise until the third quarter
of 2014, according to a forecast of 18 economists by  Bloomberg
News . In the U.S., the rate isn’t expected to rise until after
2014, a Bloomberg survey of 61 economists shows.  “The path of long-term interest rates poses the greatest
risk” to Canadian insurers, Routledge said in an April 18 note
to clients. IAG is the most at risk in a continued low rate
environment which will persist “for an extended period,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  