-- Golden State Ties NBA Playoff Series With San Antonio; Heat Win
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-05-09T05:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/miami-heat-top-chicago-bulls-115-78-to-even-nba-series-at-1-1.html
The  Golden State Warriors  held on to a
big lead this time to end a 30-game losing streak in San Antonio
and even their playoff series against the Spurs, while the  Miami
Heat  had a record-setting win to tie their series with the
 Chicago Bulls .  The Warriors, who led Game 1 by 16 points with four minutes
remaining before losing in double overtime, won 100-91 last
night and headed home tied 1-1 in the best-of-seven National
Basketball Association second-round series.  Klay Thompson, who had 34 points and 14 rebounds as Golden
State won in San Antonio for the first time since Feb. 14, 1997,
said the Warriors were not going to blow another big lead.  “No chance,” Thompson said in a televised interview.
“Coach (Mark) Jackson told us to have amnesia at halftime and
that’s what we did.”  Golden State built its lead to 20 points midway through the
third quarter and Thompson hit a 3-pointer at the buzzer to give
the Warriors an 11-point lead heading into the fourth. The Spurs
twice pulled within six points in the final period.  Stephen Curry added 22 points for Golden State, which hit
11 3-pointers.  Tim Duncan  had 23 points and nine rebounds for
the Spurs.  “We experienced three games in a row where we had a big
lead, and we finally learned from it,” Curry said, including
the Warriors’ elimination of the  Denver Nuggets  in a first-round
Game 6 in which Golden State almost blew an 18-point fourth-quarter lead at home.  Heat Win  In Miami,  LeBron James  had 19 points and nine assists as
the defending champion Heat tied their series with the Bulls at
a game apiece with a 115-78 victory.  Game 3 in the Warriors-Spurs and Heat-Bulls series is set
for tomorrow night. There are no NBA games tonight. All four NBA
series are now tied 1-1, including the  New York Knicks  against
the Indiana Pacers and the Memphis Grizzlies versus the Oklahoma
City Thunder.  Ray Allen  scored 21 points for the Heat, who shot 60
percent. It was the most lopsided postseason win in Heat history,
surpassing a 35-point victory against the Orlando Magic in 1997.
The 37-point drubbing was the worst playoff loss in Bulls
history.  “No matter if you win by 20, 30 or one point, it’s a 1-1
series,” James said in a news conference. “They got one on our
floor and took home court. So we’ve got to try to go to Chicago
and get it back.”  The Heat, who lost 93-86 in Game 1 at home after a first-round sweep of the  Milwaukee Bucks , led 55-41 at halftime and
built their lead to 28 points in the third period and to 46
points early in the fourth quarter against the injury-depleted
Bulls.  ‘Just Weird’  “Today was just weird,” said Bulls guard  Nate Robinson ,
who was held to 11 points on 3-for-10 shooting after scoring 27
points in Game 1. “Something was different.”  Chicago, which eliminated the Brooklyn Nets in seven games
in the first round, was missing guard Kirk Heinrich for the
fourth straight game with a bruised calf and forward Luol Deng
for the third consecutive game with an undiagnosed illness.
Former Most Valuable Player  Derrick Rose  has not played all
season for Chicago while recovering from knee surgery.  Joakim Noah had 12 points and six rebounds to lead the
Bulls in a scrappy game that included nine technical fouls --
including six on Chicago, who had Noah and Taj Gibson ejected in
the fourth quarter. The six technicals were the most by any team
in a playoff game since the  Boston Celtics  had the same number
in a 2005 game against the  Indiana Pacers .  “I don’t know how many techs we got,” Noah told reporters.
“I would call that not keeping your cool, not being very zen.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Gloster at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net  