-- Libya Premier Says Purge Law Will Force Cabinet Shuffle
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-05-09T15:11:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/libya-premier-says-purge-law-will-force-cabinet-shuffle.html
Libyan Prime Minister Ali Zaidan said
a purge of Muammar Qaddafi-era officials will force a Cabinet
reshuffle and delay efforts to rebuild the country.  “For sure there will be a cabinet reshuffling,” Zaidan
said during a news conference in Tripoli late yesterday. “This
will delay the implementation of projects,” he said, noting
that foreign companies are reluctant to open offices in  Libya ,
while others have left the country.  The so-called Isolation Law, passed by Congress May 5, is
set to bar from office people who worked in managerial positions
in the government, civil service, diplomatic corps, military,
banks, universities, the judiciary and oil industry - if they
opposed Qaddafi before or during uprising - for a minimum of 10
years. The 200-member General National Congress may see 30
members expelled.  Gunmen continued their blockade of the foreign and justice
ministries today, saying they’ll stay in place to ensure the
Isolation Law is implemented by a June 5 deadline and some said
they are also now seeking the resignation of Zaidan. Their
presence before and during the vote on the bill has led to
concern militias are using force to drive political change.  Two years after Qaddafi’s removal, Libya’s lacks a new
constitution and permanent government to usher in administrative
and systemic reforms. Growing frustration with the slow pace of
change has led to strikes and demonstrations as militias refuse
to disarm and radical Islamists rise in the oil-producing east.  Court Protests  Courts in eastern Libya and Zawiya in the west halted
activities in protest over the siege of the justice ministry,
the state-run LANA news agency said, citing a statement.  France , the U.K. and U.S., which led Western military
action against Qaddafi in 2011, called on Libyans to refrain
from armed protest and violence during the transition in a
statement issued before Zaidan, a Qaddafi-era diplomat, spoke.  “The democratically elected representatives and leaders of
the Libyan people must be able to carry out their duties and
move forward with the constitution motivated by their
responsibility to the Libyans who elected them rather than by
the threat of force,” the countries said.  Supporters and opponents of the Isolation Law clashed in
central Tripoli on April 30 and May 2-4, though no casualties
were reported.  Visit Delayed  A visit to Libya by delegation of British businessmen from
the Libyan British Business Council led by former U.K.
ambassador to Libya Dominic Asquith has been delayed, the
group’s spokesman said shortly before Zaidan spoke yesterday.
Asquith was the target of a rocket attack in Benghazi in June,
three months before U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens and three
other Americans were killed in an attack in the city.  Heavily armed militiamen blockaded the foreign and interior
ministries April 28, demanding parliament pass the Isolation
Law. The siege was lifted as Libya’s parliament backed the bill.
Gun extended their blockade to other ministries the next day.  The Political Positions Standards Implementation Authority
will meet to decide who is affected by the new legislation.
Qaddafi ruled from 1969 to 2011.  Half a million people may lose their jobs as a result of
the purge, which will “destroy governing structures,” Mahmoud Jibril, leader of the National Forces Alliance, Libya’s biggest
political party, who may himself be barred, said yesterday.  Several civil society groups called on citizens to join a
demonstration in central Tripoli tomorrow, demanding the
“implementation of the state of law and institutions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Stephen in Tripoli at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  