-- Libya Is Seeking S&P Credit Rating, Central Bank Governor Says
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i
-- 2013-05-09T12:48:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/libya-is-seeking-s-p-credit-rating-central-bank-governor-says.html
Libya  is seeking to obtain a credit
rating from  Standard & Poor’s  more than two years after the
armed conflict against Mummar Qaddafi prompted rating companies
to suspend their assessment of the Arab country.  The holder of  Africa ’s largest oil reserves has the
qualifications to maintain its ratings before the 2011 revolt
that ousted Qaddafi, Central Bank Governor Saddek Elkaber said.
Standard & Poor’s lowered the nation’s credit worthiness five
levels to BB, two steps below investment grade before suspending
the rating, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fitch
Ratings  withdrew Libya’s assessment in April 2011.  “We are preparing ourselves, we got in touch with them,”
the governor said in an interview in Beirut today, referring to
S&P. He said he expects the rating to be awarded in the “coming
months.” S&P didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment.  The Libyan economy, which relies on revenue from oil, is
starting to recover from the 2011 recession caused by the
violence. Gross domestic product almost doubled in 2012 and may
expand 18 percent this year, Elkaber said. Still, the transition
to democracy has been beset by delays to adopt a constitution
and disarm militias that helped end Qaddafi’s four-decade rule.  Elkaber said the central bank is waiting for the
constitution to offer license for foreign banks and become an
“open market.” The regulator may award three domestic
institutions permissions to start Islamic banks, he said. A law
passed this year asked banks not to extend loans to individuals
until a Shariah-compliant alternative is found, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in  Beirut  at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Maher Chmaytelli in Beirut at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  