-- Mideast Gasoline Imports Shrinking on Refinery Boom
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2013-05-09T16:44:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/mideast-gasoline-imports-shrinking-on-refinery-boom.html
The largest-ever expansion of Middle
Eastern oil-refining is poised to curb the region’s imports of
gasoline, reducing dependence on shipments from  India  and
 Singapore  and sapping margins for European and Asian processors.  Saudi Arabia, the region’s biggest gasoline importer, will
add enough processing capacity to cut purchases of the fuel 50
percent by this time next year, according to a Bloomberg survey
of four traders and analysts based on data from state-owned
Saudi Arabian Oil Co. The United Arab Emirates expects to become
self-sufficient in gasoline when it starts units at the Ruwais
plant in 2014, Sultan Al Mehairi, the head of refining at Abu
Dhabi National Oil Co., said April 22, while Kuwait, Qatar,
Bahrain and Oman are also developing operations.  The unprecedented expansion, which may cost as much as $100
billion in the next seven years, is raising the prospect of a
shift in the flow of refined products from a region that
accounts for 46 percent of world crude exports. Seeking to cater
for populations growing as fast as 4.2 percent in some
countries, the boom risks further eroding refining margins at a
time when companies such as  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386)  are
already adding to capacity in Asia.  “The Gulf is generally short on gasoline and diesel, and
that is set to change in the coming years,” said Robin Mills,
who worked for a decade on  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s business in
the region and is now head of consulting at Dubai-based Manaar
Energy Consulting and Project Management. “They are putting
more refining capacity into an oversupplied market,” he said by
telephone April 28.  ‘Under Pressure’  Crack spreads  on low-sulfur diesel, or the profit refiners
make from processing crude into the transport fuel, have fallen
to about $15 a barrel in  Europe , from $20 as recently as August,
according to Bank of America Corp. Margins in Asia were at about
$14 a barrel earlier this week, down from $20 in February,
according ESAI Energy LLC, an energy researcher in Wakefield,
 Massachusetts .  Diesel’s premium to Dubai crude in Singapore has risen this
week and gained $1.18, or 7.7 percent, today to $16.39 a barrel
at 5:42 p.m. London time, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Cracks “will likely remain under pressure in 2013 and
2014,” Bank of America analysts Francisco Blanch in New York
and London-based Sabine Schels said in a May 1 report.  Saudi Arabia, the largest Arab economy, will need to import
100,000 to 120,000 barrels of gasoline a day from June through
August to meet summer demand, the traders and analysts in the
Bloomberg survey said. A joint-venture facility at the port of
Jubail will produce 90,000 barrels of the fuel a day after it
starts operating next quarter, according to Saudi Aramco, as the
state-owned company is known.  Export Economics  Total SA (FP) , which has a 37.5 percent stake in the refinery,
plans to export to Europe its share of diesel produced at the
plant, “depending on economics,” Pierre Barbe, president of
the company’s trading and shipping division, said April 22 in
Abu Dhabi, the U.A.E. capital. Paris-based Total will also own
the same proportion of gasoline that Jubail produces.  Aramco’s output from the plant will be sufficient to cut
Saudi Arabia’s need for imported fuel during the summer months,
when demand to run air conditioners peaks as temperatures reach
120 degrees Fahrenheit (49 degree Celsius). Even with Jubail,
the state-run company will still need to buy some gasoline and
diesel, which can be used in generators, according to Robert Smith, a Dubai-based analyst at Facts Global Energy.  Indian Complex  An Aramco official declined to comment yesterday. A media
official at  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , the Mumbai-based processor
for which the Middle East is the largest market, didn’t respond
to two phone calls on May 7.  Reliance, which operates the world’s biggest oil-refining
complex, is seeking to export fuel because margins overseas are
higher than those on domestic markets, where it competes with
subsidized fuel made by state companies. Aramco bought two
gasoil cargoes from India’s  Essar Oil Ltd. (ESOIL)  in March, two traders
familiar with the transaction said March 7.  Saudi Arabia is likely to compete with Indian refiners for
sales of cleaner-burning diesel fuel into Europe, while both
Gulf and Asian processors will target new markets in East
Africa, where demand is growing,  Neil Beveridge , head analyst
for oil and gas in the Asia-Pacific region at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co., said by phone from Hong Kong on April 30.  Indian refiners supplied 85,000 barrels a day of diesel to
Saudi Arabia last year, Vivek Mathur, a researcher at ESAI
Energy, said in an April 22 report. The desert kingdom imports
150,000 barrels a day of the fuel, according to two of the
traders and analysts surveyed.  Increased Competition  “It’s a question of increased competition for these
refiners, and they’ll have to find new markets,” Mathur said by
phone May 7. “You’re seeing increased competition for low-sulfur diesel in Asia and that’s already impacted margins. In
Europe, we’re seeing softening gasoil spreads because of rising
supply and slower economic growth.”  Aramco is leading the Gulf in building refineries, with
plans for three facilities adding 1.2 million barrels a day of
capacity. Regional expansion projects in the six Gulf countries
would raise combined processing capacity to about 7.6 million
barrels a day from 4.3 million barrels, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg based on information from the companies.  Surging domestic demand may absorb some of the new
production as populations grow annually by 1.5 percent in Saudi
Arabia and as much as 4.2 percent in Qatar. Middle East refining
will expand over the rest of this decade with the biggest
addition of capacity planned in 2018, according to Singapore-based Facts.  Delays Possible  Even if some facilities are delayed, Chinese refiners alone
will add 555,000 to 690,000 barrels a day of capacity this year,
according to Bank of America and Barclays Plc. A slowdown in
 China ’s economic growth would probably boost exports of the
Asian country’s fuel, the banks said.  Aramco itself is a partner in a 240,000 barrel-a-day
refinery and petrochemical complex in China’s Fujian province
with China Petroleum & Chemical and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)   “Refining capacity is growing strongly in India, China and
the Middle East, and that’s creating downward pressure on
refining margins in the coming years,” said Beveridge. “We are
into a weaker margin environment for the next few years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  