-- Illinois Pension Standoff Ahead as Senate OKs Its Own Fix
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-05-09T20:17:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/illinois-pension-standoff-ahead-as-senate-oks-its-own-fix.html
The  Illinois  legislative effort to
repair the nation’s worst-funded pension system moved closer to
a showdown as the Senate passed a restructuring measure endorsed
by public-employee unions.  The bill, approved today by a vote of 40 to 16 in the
Democratic-dominated chamber, sets up a confrontation over how
to eliminate a $97 billion liability that is crowding out other
spending priorities. The vote came one week after the House of
Representatives, also controlled by Democrats, required
employees to contribute two percentage points more of their
incomes to pay for pensions.  Senate President John Cullerton said during the debate that
his approach offers employees a choice of retirement and health-care options and wouldn’t run afoul of the state constitution’s
protection of pension benefits.  “The bill that the House has passed I believe is risky,”
Cullerton said. “This is the best chance to get a majority vote
in both chambers and have the governor sign the bill.”  House and Senate Democrats have argued over the approach to
repair the retirement plans covering state workers, teachers,
university employees, judges and lawmakers. The bill from House
Speaker Michael Madigan, which would also restrict cost-of-living increases and raise the retirement age, is designed to
save $150 billion in costs during the next 30 years. The
proposal from Cullerton, Madigan’s fellow Chicago Democrat,
would cut the shortfall by about $50 billion.  Impending Deadline  With annual costs projected to grow by more than $900
million in next year’s budget, lawmakers are trying to resolve
the squeeze by May 31, when the budget session is scheduled to
end. The pension deficit increases by about $17 million a day.  Ahead of the Senate debate, investors in the $3.7 trillion
municipal market were penalizing the state’s debt. A taxable
pension-obligation bond sold in June 2003 and maturing in June
2033 traded at an average yield of 5.13 percent at 1 p.m. in New
York, the highest since April 5, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “The big problem with this bill is that it doesn’t solve
the problem,” said Senator Matt Murphy, a Republican from
Palatine. “This is a bill that perpetuates this crisis mode.”  Democratic Governor Pat Quinn last week applauded the
House-passed version, saying it moves Illinois closer to curing
a plague on the state’s economy, bond rating “and the future of
our children.”  Cellar Dweller  Illinois has the lowest-graded credit of any U.S. state by
Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s partly because
of the unfunded retirement plans. Moody’s, S&P and Fitch Ratings
all have a negative outlook for the state.  “In order to begin to rebuild the trust between us and the
people who depend upon the systems, you have to take a bold
step, and this is not a bold step,” said Senator Dale Righter,
a Republican from Mattoon.  Illinois is paying for years of mismanagement and political
gridlock, with only 39 percent of assets needed to cover
projected obligations, according to the Civic Federation, a
Chicago nonprofit research group that tracks public finances.  SEC Settlement  On March 12, the state settled with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission over charges it misled investors from 2005
to 2009 about retirement shortfalls.  Supporters of the Senate version of the pension bill argued
that legislators should be concerned about more than saving
money.  “This isn’t just a numbers problem -- this is people, this
is people who have spent decades teaching our children, working
in our state government,” said Senator Linda Holmes, a Democrat
from Aurora. “Do you want to be fiscally responsible or do you
want to be morally bankrupt and cheat the people who have helped
us as a state?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net 
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  