-- India Says Canada Investment Rules May Cut LNG Spending
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-05-09T21:10:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/india-says-canada-investment-rules-may-cut-lng-spending.html
Changes to  Canada ’s rules governing
investment by foreign state-owned enterprises may discourage
Indian oil companies from participating in projects to ship
natural gas from the North American country,  India ’s top
diplomat in Ottawa said.  Indian state-controlled energy companies, seeking to meet
domestic demand for the heating and power-plant fuel, want to
source natural gas from Canada, Admiral Nirmal Verma, India’s
high commissioner said today at a conference in Calgary.
Revisions to the Investment Canada Act may stop companies from
buying stakes in export projects, Verma said.  Canada plans to amend rules to broaden its definition of a
state-owned company and give the government more power to shield
domestic businesses from takeovers. There are at least 10
potential proposals to freeze and export liquefied natural gas
in tankers from Canada, to tap higher prices in  Asia  as output
from North American shale formations has lowered prices there.  The proposed changes “add considerable uncertainty for
potential investments” in LNG, Verma said. “Indian companies
look forward to opportunities to acquire equity interests in
some of the upcoming LNG projects in Canada.”  State-owned companies from  China ,  South Korea  and  Malaysia 
are ahead of India in acquiring stakes in proposed LNG export
plants in British Columbia that would be used to ship gas from
shale.  Further Changes  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  introduced a law last month
that would change the nation’s foreign-takeover rules to
implement the policy on state-owned enterprises, which was
announced in December.  The Canadian government said last year it would toughen
scrutiny of acquisitions of Canadian companies by state-owned
firms, after it approved the takeovers of Calgary-based oil and
gas producer Nexen Inc. by  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  of China for $15.1 billion
and the C$5.2 billion ($5.17 billion) purchase of Calgary’s
Progress Energy Resources Corp. by Malaysia’s Petroliam Nasional
Bhd.  The changes expand the definition of state-owned firms to
include individuals acting under the direction or influence of
foreign governments, and give Canada’s industry minister greater
discretion to determine if such firms have acquired control of a
Canadian business.  The amendments go further than anticipated in attempting to
curb the activities of state-owned enterprises, according to a
May 2  research note  from law firm Osler, Hoskin and Harcourt
LLP.  Close Scrutiny  “People can structure things in a very clever fashion to
make them look like a minority, but really they’re not,” Peter
Glossop, a partner at the Toronto-based firm, said by telephone
last week. “This does put people on notice that transactions
are going to be scrutinized very closely.”  “India has mainly national companies,” Vivek Pandit,
senior director at the New Delhi-based Federation of Indian
Chambers of Commerce and Industry, said in an interview. “There
is a regulatory hurdle in Canada about limiting the investment
in national  oil companies  in Canada.”  Indian oil companies are in the “initial days” of looking
at investment in Canadian LNG, said A.M.K. Sinha, director of
planning and business development on the board of state-controlled Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s biggest refiner.
Regulatory issues need to be resolved before the companies
invest, Sinha said at a conference today in Calgary, declining
to define his concerns. He also said pipelines are needed to
carry Canadian energy products to the Atlantic coast.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  