-- India Nifty Futures Rise, Signaling Shares May Extend 3-Day Gain
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-05-09T02:18:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/india-nifty-futures-rise-signaling-shares-may-extend-3-day-gain.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stock-index futures gained,
signaling benchmark indexes may advance for a fourth day.  SGX CNX Nifty Index futures  for May delivery rose 0.3
percent to 6,102 at 10:18 a.m. in  Singapore . The underlying CNX
 Nifty (NIFTY)  Index added 0.4 percent to 6,069.30 yesterday, its highest
close since Jan. 28. The S&P BSE Sensex index rose 0.5 percent.
The Bank of  New York  Mellon India ADR Index of U.S.-traded
shares rose 0.4 percent to the highest since April 11.  Profits at just two of the 13 Sensex companies that have
reported March-quarter results so far have  trailed  analyst
estimates, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with
43 percent in the previous quarter. The Sensex has rebounded 9.7
percent since plunging to a seven-month low on April 9, as
overseas investors  stepped up equity purchases  amid monetary
easing by global central banks, pushing valuations to the
highest level in more than three months.  “Corporate earnings so far have positively surprised
investors,”  Arun Kejriwal , director at Kejriwal Research &
Investment Services, said by phone from Mumbai today. “The
markets will get support from global liquidity flows. As long as
the money keeps coming the markets will not fall. We don’t
expect a big rally from here as valuations are getting a bit
stretched.”  Sentiment Boost  Foreign funds bought a net $202 million of local shares on
May 7, taking their net investment in stocks this year to $12.2
billion, a record for the period, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Funds bought a net $802 million worth of
equities last week, the most since the period ended Feb. 8, the
data show.  The Sensex has increased 2.9 percent this year and trades
at 13.8 times projected 12-month earnings, compared with the
MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index’s 10.7 times.  “Global liquidity and the fact that most developed markets
are at an all-time high is boosting local sentiment,”
 Jagannadham Thunuguntla , chief strategist at New Delhi-based SMC
Global Securities Ltd., said by phone yesterday. “Indian
markets have become almost immune to local factors.”  The Sensex’s 14-day  relative strength index , which measures
how rapidly prices rise or fall, climbed to 69.3 yesterday. Some
investors see readings above 70 as a signal to sell. Betting on
movements in the benchmark Indian gauge over the past five years
using RSI signals would have  lost 61 percent , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  