-- Tinkler Creditor Presses for Holding Company Bankruptcy
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-05-09T03:56:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/tinkler-creditor-presses-for-holding-company-bankruptcy.html
BKK Partners Pty, which advised Nathan Tinkler on his failed A$5.3 billion ($5.4 billion) bid for
 Whitehaven Coal Ltd. (WHC) , sought to push the former billionaire’s
holding company into bankruptcy for not paying its bills.  BKK sued in Federal Court in Sydney, claiming Tinkler Group
Pty failed to pay A$220,000 for advisory work done to Nov. 1,
2012, according to an application to appoint a liquidator filed
April 22. A hearing is scheduled for May 22.  Tinkler, an electrician-turned-entrepreneur who owns about
a fifth of the outstanding shares of Whitehaven Coal, was ranked
as  Australia ’s youngest billionaire at the age of 35 by BRW
magazine in 2011 after he sold his house in 2006 to help buy a
A$30 million Middlemount coal lease in Queensland.  He testified in court in March in a separate case that he’s
living on an allowance he gets from his wife who controls a
A$1.4 billion trust.  Tim Allerton, a spokesman for Tinkler at City Public
Relations, declined to comment on the lawsuit.  Tinkler’s Mulsanne Resources Pty was ordered liquidated by
a New South Wales state judicial officer on Nov. 20 after the
company failed to pay A$28.4 million for shares in coal
developer Blackwood Corp. His Patinack Farm Administration Pty
was put in liquidation a day later by a federal judge in
Adelaide over a debt to Workcover Corp. of South Australia.  Other Settlements  Tinkler lost ownership of his personal jet and helicopter
after a financing company pushed TGHA Aviation Pty into
receivership on Nov. 23.  He has avoided other of his companies being pushed into
bankruptcy with settlements at the last minute, including an
October agreement with  Mirvac Group (MGR)  over a failed property deal.  The Sydney Morning Herald reported the BKK  lawsuit  earlier
and said Tinkler and his wife Rebecca were also sued personally
in the New South Wales Supreme Court in Sydney over the same
debts.  The Supreme Court confirmed in an e-mail a lawsuit was
filed April 22. No documents deemed publicly accessible are
available at this time, even though a statement of claim was
filed, according to the court. A hearing on the Supreme Court
lawsuit is scheduled for July 29.  The federal lawsuit is BKK Partners Pty v. Tinkler Group
Pty. NSD699/2013. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  