-- Investec Bankers Plan Larger Stake After $280 Million Deal
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2013-05-09T09:48:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/investec-bankers-plan-larger-stake-after-280-million-deal-1-.html
The executive team of Investec Asset
Management plan to boost their shareholding in the business
after paying about $280 million for a 15 percent stake,
according to Thabo Khojane, managing director of the unit.  “We’ll have 20 percent by 2020 and hopefully more than
that after that,” Khojane said in an interview in  Cape Town 
yesterday, referring to an option to increase the stake. “We’d
love to buy more and the shareholder would love to sell less.
The 20 percent is as a result of that kind of balancing act.”  Investec Plc, the owner of a bank and money manager in
 South Africa  and the U.K., said on March 14 that senior
employees of its asset-management unit would buy the 15 percent
stake for 180 million pounds. Staff have the right to boost that
by another 5 percent over seven years. The buyers are led by
Investec Asset Management head Hendrik du Toit and comprise
about 40 senior managers and employees.  In three years the money manager, with $105 million in
funds under management, can start to take up the next 5 percent
and the individuals who have taken on debt to fund the deal
“should be in the money before 10 years is up,” Khojane said.  Investec, (INVP)  which is listed in  London  and Johannesburg, is
the best-performing  bank stock  in South Africa this year having
gained 16 percent to 68.05 rand.  “The Investec group is the kind of parent you want as an
independently-minded group,” Khojane said. “In our industry
there’s a premium for leadership continuity.”  Net Inflows  The asset manager is likely to attract between 1.8 billion
pounds and 3.5 billion pounds of net inflows a year for the next
three years, Greg Saffy, a banking analyst for RMB Morgan
Stanley in Johannesburg, said in an April 29 note to clients.
Operating profit will likely rise to 172 million pounds by 2015
from 127 million, he said.  While Johannesburg’s stock exchange has underperformed
bourses in London,  Tokyo  and the U.S. this year and the price of
gold, in which the  money manager  has overweight positions, has
plummeted more than 12 percent, so-called short-term market
changes shouldn’t affect employees’ ability to realize a return,
according to Khojane.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  