-- Ironman Making Changes to Swimming Portion of Races After Deaths
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-05-09T16:57:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/ironman-making-changes-to-swimming-portion-of-races-after-deaths.html
World Triathlon Corp., the owner of
the sport’s Ironman-branded events, is making changes to the
swim portion of select races after an increase in competitor
deaths in recent years.  Events in Coeur d’Alene,  Idaho ; Lake Placid, New York; and
Mont-Tremblant,  Quebec , will no longer feature a mass swim start
format, eliminating a long-standing Ironman tradition. Athletes
at those races will either enter the water in a continuous
stream through an access point, with their time starting when
they cross a timing mat, or in staggered waves based on their
age group.  The changes come two months after Ross Ehlinger, a 46-year-old man from Austin,  Texas , died during the swim portion of the
Escape from Alcatraz Triathlon and nine months after Andy
Naylor, a 43-year-old member of the Hong Kong Police Force, died
near the conclusion of the 2.4-mile swim portion of the New York
City Ironman. In 2011, two competitors died during the swim
portion of the Olympic-distance New York City Triathlon.  All North American Ironman events will also include a pre-race, in-water warm-up when possible. In addition, if the water
temperature is below 52 Fahrenheit (11 Celsius) or above 88 on
race day, the swim portion will be canceled or shortened, World
Triathlon said in a statement.  USA Triathlon, the governing body for the sport in the
U.S., released a study in October that found 30 of 43 athlete
fatalities in triathlons from 2003 through 2011 happened during
the swim portion. The study found most triathlon-related deaths
were caused by sudden cardiac incidents and that course
conditions didn’t play a role.  Race Buoys  All swim courses will now include numbered buoys to assist
in locating and helping distressed swimmers. Anchored rafts, as
well as an increased number of rescue boats, kayaks and in-water
personnel, will be included along the courses. Competitors who
use the rafts to rest won’t be disqualified, World Triathlon
said.  The swim changes will also include educating athletes about
reducing anxiety, including pre-race screening for potential
health issues, pre-race training and race-week preparation.  The Coeur d’Alene and Lake Placid races will feature the
rolling start process, while Mont-Tremblant will begin in age-group waves entering the water every five minutes.  Events in Lake Tahoe,  California , and Panama City,  Florida ,
will alter their mass swim start, with seeding into corrals
based on the competitor’s estimated swim finish time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  