-- Italy Can Keep Tax Pledges Without Budget Cuts, Saccomanni Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-05-09T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/italy-can-keep-tax-pledges-without-budget-cuts-saccomanni-says.html
The Italian government won’t need to
make more budget cuts this year to finance a plan to ease taxes,
and it remains committed to suspending payment of an unpopular
property levy, Finance Minister Fabrizio Saccomanni said.  The government held a Cabinet meeting yesterday to suspend
the June payment of the tax on primary residences in a bid to
make good on Prime Minister Enrico Letta’s inauguration pledge.
The decision was put off until the next meeting, which may be
held as soon as May 12, when Letta’s new government holds a
retreat at a monastery near Siena,  Italy , Saccomanni said on the
“Otto e Mezzo” program on La 7 television  “There is a commitment to suspend the payment of the tax
due June 16 and to redefine the entire property tax within 100
days of the first payment being due,” he said in his first
television interview since Letta’s government was installed last
month.  Saccomanni said the government would also pass measures to
add funds to a temporary layoff program known as CIG, which was
also on the agenda of today’s Cabinet meeting. The two measures
could require 3.5 billion euros ($4.6 billion) to finance,
newspaper  Il Sole 24 Ore (S24)  reported yesterday without saying where
it got the information.  Budget Cuts  The government would be able to finance the measures
without the need for a new package of budget cuts, Saccomanni
said.  Letta initially announced his plans to suspend the property
tax payment in his first speech to Parliament on April 29. The
levy known as IMU was introduced by former premier  Mario Monti 
in December 2011 to reduce the deficit and provoked a popular
backlash that contributed to February elections producing a hung
Parliament.  Repealing the levy was a central part of the campaign of
former prime minister  Silvio Berlusconi , who won a blocking
minority in the Senate in the February vote and this month
became part of the governing coalition with Letta and his
 Democratic Party . Berlusconi pledged in the campaign to abolish
the tax on primary residences and refund last year’s payment.  Saccomanni said the tax would be overhauled, though not
eliminated on first homes. The review will also consider changes
to the level of tax paid by commercial real estate owners, he
said.  An economic recovery in Italy will begin late this year or
early next year, he said. Responding to remarks by comedian-turned-politician Beppe Grillo that Italy risked going bankrupt
in October, Saccomanni said there was “no threat of default
now, nor in the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  