-- Kinross Gold Chief Sees No Need for Asset Sales in Tough Market
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-05-09T19:11:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/kinross-gold-chief-sees-no-need-for-asset-sales-in-tough-market.html
Kinross (K)  Gold Corp., Canada’s third-largest producer by revenue, says now isn’t a good time to sell
assets and the company will work on improving its least-profitable mines before it considers offloading them.  The “obvious candidates” that may not fit the Toronto-based miner’s requirements would be its highest-cost mines,
Chief Executive Officer J. Paul Rollinson said yesterday in an
interview after the company’s annual shareholder meeting.  “We’re going to look at them and we’re going to try to
reconfigure them and we’re going to try do more with them before
we would determine it’s not a fit,” he said. “We don’t have to
sell to support the balance sheet.”  Mining companies led by  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  are holding the
biggest ever sale of assets this year as producers seek to shore
up earnings and cut costs, with about $48 billion of mines and
assets on the block around the world.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) ,
Kinross’s largest rival, is working with Bank of America Corp.
and UBS AG on a possible sale of three  gold mines  in  Australia ,
two people with knowledge of the matter said last month, and is
also seeking buyers for its oil and gas unit.  It’s a difficult market to sell into, Rollinson said,
because smaller companies that might be interested face
depressed share prices and a lack of funding, especially after
gold slumped into a  bear market  last month.  “The ability to source cash from likely buyers of things
that are non-core is easier said than done, I think, in this
environment,” he said. “And you really have to think hard
about whether you want to take back a pile of paper in a smaller
company.”  Improvement Focus  Kinross, which has operations in  Mauritania ,  Ghana , the
U.S., Chile, Brazil and  Russia , isn’t looking for acquisitions
either, even though depressed valuations in the industry might
create “interesting” opportunities. The company is focused on
improving its existing mines and projects, as Rollinson presses
his managers to reduce spending and curb operating costs, even
at the expense of output levels, in a bid to boost profits.  Those efforts are beginning to pay off, as Kinross this
week reported earnings that beat analysts’ estimates for the
third consecutive quarter and said costs decreased year-on-year
for the first time in almost four years.  The company’s biggest deal was its 2010 acquisition of Red
Back Mining Inc. for C$8 billion ($7.97 billion) to add two
African mines, which it has since written down by a combined
$6.5 billion. CEO Tye Burt was fired and replaced by Rollinson
Aug. 1 of last year.  For now, corporate activity is “secondary” for the
company, Rollinson said yesterday.  “There will probably be a time at some point in the future
when we will think about those things again but it’s not in the
immediate forefront of our minds.”  Barrick Gold and  Goldcorp Inc. (G)  are the largest Canadian
gold producers by sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  