-- Kobe Bryant Wins Order Blocking Mother’s Memorabilia Sale
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-05-10T12:11:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/kobe-bryant-wins-order-blocking-mother-s-sale-of-memorabilia.html
  Kobe Bryant , the All-Star basketball
guard, won a judge’s order that temporarily blocks a New Jersey
auctioneer from selling memorabilia that has been held by his
mother.  U.S. District Judge Andrew Guilford issued an order May 8
in federal court in Santa Ana, California, that blocks Goldin
Auctions LLC from selling or transferring property, including
“basketball jerseys, championship rings, and other sports
memorabilia” that Bryant says belongs to him. Goldin Auctions
said in court papers it expects to sell the items for more than
$1 million and has advanced Pamela Bryant $450,000.  The dispute, playing out in federal courts in California
and New Jersey, centers on whether the Los Angeles Laker star
can halt attempts by his mother to sell such items as his high
school uniform and varsity letters and his ring from the 2000
National Basketball Association championship.  “I never told my mother that she could have my personal
property, let alone consign it for sale by public auction,”
Bryant, 34, said in a court papers filed May 8 in  Santa Ana .  “Several years ago, while visiting my parents’ home in
Philadelphia, my wife and I specifically requested that my
mother return the property to me so that I may give it to my own
children,” according to Bryant’s declaration. “My mother never
returned those items to me.”  Mother’s Call  On May 2, Pamela Bryant called him, according to the
filing.  “I confronted her about her false statement that I have
given my memorabilia to her,” Bryant said.  “I said to her, ‘Mom, you know I never told you that you
could have the memorabilia.’ Her response was, ‘Yes, but you
never said you wanted it either.’ Of course, this is untrue
since my wife and I requested that she return my memorabilia
several years earlier.”  Bryant sued Goldin Auctions in California state court in
Orange County on May 6, four days after the auctioneer sued the
Laker in federal court in Camden,  New Jersey . Goldin had the
California case transferred to federal court this week,
prompting Guilford to issue a temporary restraining order.  He set a hearing for May 13 “to discuss the TRO and
whether a preliminary injunction” should be issued. He also
will discuss whether the case should return to state court. A
judge in the New Jersey case has set a hearing for May 14.  In an April 30 release, Goldin announced a June auction of
the “Kobe Bryant Collection, which included ‘100+ unique items
from Kobe Bryant’s childhood, high school career and entry into
the NBA including championship rings, game worn high school
uniforms and much more.’”  ‘Sentimental Value’  In his complaint, Bryant claimed Goldin’s “conversion” of
his property “will cause great and irreparable injury” to him
because the items in question “have enormous sentimental value
and are irreplaceable.”  Goldin attorney Jeffrey A. Cohen said in an e-mail that the
items were legally obtained by the auctioneer. It was
“approached by Pamela Bryant, who provided certificates of
authenticity and attested in a sworn affidavit to their lawful
ownership. Goldin Auctions has already issued a substantial
monetary advance for these items,” Cohen said.  Goldin is “taking all necessary and appropriate” legal
action to oppose Bryant’s “efforts in  California  to interfere
with the New Jersey proceedings,” according to the statement.  ‘Legal Matter’  Mark Campbell, an attorney for Bryant, said in a statement
that “Mr. Bryant’s personal property has ended up in the
possession of someone who does not lawfully own it. We look
forward to resolving this legal matter through the legal
system.”  Bryant, who had surgery last month to repair a torn
Achilles tendon, averaged 27.3 points per game this season. A
first-round draft pick in 1996, Bryant is one of the game’s all-time greats, winning five NBA championships, a Most Valuable
Player award, two scoring titles, and 15 All Star berths.  “I am also the NBA’s fourth all-time scoring leader,”
Bryant said in his filing.  The cases are Bryant v. Goldin Auctions, 13-cv-727, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California (Santa Ana); and
Goldin Auctions LLC v. Bryant, 13-cv-02816, U.S. District Court,
District of New Jersey (Camden).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Edvard Pettersson in the Los Angeles federal court house at
   epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  