-- KPMG Faces Two Investigations From U.K. Accounting Regulator
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-05-09T11:40:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/kpmg-faces-two-investigations-from-u-k-accounting-regulator.html
The U.K.’s accounting watchdog placed
KPMG LLP under two separate investigations, examining its audits
of a car seller and the conduct of one of its partners.  The  Financial Reporting Council  will investigate whether
KPMG “was independent” when it audited the annual accounts of
Nottingham, England-based  Pendragon Plc (PDG)  for 2010 and 2011. The
regulator is also probing the conduct of a KPMG partner in
relation to a “non-timely disposal of a share-holding in a
client entity,” the FRC said in separate statements on its
website today.  The probes mean the accounting firm could face three FRC
inquiries as the regulator decides whether to investigate the
audits of  HBOS Plc. (LLOY)  The FRC is waiting on reports from the U.K.
Parliament and financial regulator to consider whether it has a
case, spokeswoman Sophie Broom said last month. KPMG was the
auditor for HBOS before it was taken over by London-based Lloyds
Banking Group Plc in a government-backed deal in 2008.
 KPMG  said it would cooperate with the investigations.  “We take our professional responsibilities very seriously,
have stringent policies and procedures in place to ensure that
our independence is not compromised and regularly review those
procedures to ensure that they remain appropriate,” KPMG said
in an e-mailed statement.  John Griffith-Jones, the chairman of the newly-created
Financial Conduct Authority, was senior partner of KPMG’s U.K.
unit between 2006 and 2012.  The accounting firm said it is “disappointed” that one of
its partners “failed to dispose of the relevant shares on a
timely basis and that our firm’s procedures, in this instance,
did not deal appropriately with that failure.”  Regarding the Pendragon audits, KPMG said it is “of the
view that our independence as auditor for these years was
maintained.”  Victoria Finn, spokeswoman for Pendragon, didn’t
immediately return a phone message seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  