-- Nanostim’s Mini Wireless Pacemaker Shows Promise in Study
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-05-09T20:14:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/nanostim-s-mini-wireless-pacemaker-shows-promise-in-study.html
Nanostim Inc.’s miniaturized
pacemaker, a device the size of a AAA battery placed entirely in
the heart, appeared promising in its first human trials.  The device from Nanostim, a closely held company that  St.
Jude Medical (STJ)  has said it will acquire by year’s end, doesn’t
have the wires typical of a pacemaker. Wires carry an electrical
charge from a battery-powered generator in the chest to the
ventricle to prompt a regular heartbeat. Nanostim’s device,
threaded through the femoral artery into the heart, is powered
by a built-in battery that can last eight to 17 years.  The lack of wires known as leads removes a source of
complications since they can become infected, dislodged or
damaged, said  Vivek Reddy , director of electrophysiology at
Mount Sinai Hospital in  New York , who yesterday presented the
findings with the first three patients at the  Heart Rhythm
Society  meeting in Denver. The procedure doesn’t require surgery
or leave scars or visible signs of the device, he said.  “This is a shift in how we think about pacing, but a lot
of the technology -- the way it touches the heart and the way we
deliver it -- has been worked out already,” Reddy said in a
telephone interview. “In these patients, we placed the device
properly and it was able to pace and sense appropriately.”  Rivals’ Efforts  Nanostim appears to be ahead of  Medtronic Inc. (MDT) , the world’s
biggest maker of heart-rhythm devices, and  Boston Scientific
Corp. (BSX)  in developing a leadless pacemaker, said  Larry Biegelsen ,
an analyst at Wells Fargo in New York, in an April 11 note to
investors. St. Jude, based in  St. Paul ,  Minnesota , is an
investor in Sunnyvale, California-based Nanostim and said last
month it plans to acquire the company and begin selling the
device in  Europe  by the end of the year.  St. Jude gained 1.6 percent to $43.10 at the close in New
York. The device maker has increased 9.9 percent in the past 12
months.  About 700,000 pacemakers are implanted worldwide each year.
In the U.S., only about 20 percent of them operate in just one
chamber of the heart, like the Nanostim device, while in Europe
it’s almost 40 percent, Reddy said. The company is working on
advanced versions that can pace two chambers, he said.  Reddy, who serves as a consultant to Nanostim and holds
 stock options  in the company, will present the results with
additional patients tomorrow in another meeting session.  New Approach  The approach represents a new way to think about heart-rhythm devices and the research is among the most exciting being
presented at the meeting, said  John Day , director of heart-rhythm services at Intermountain Medical Center in Murray,  Utah ,
and chairman of the panel that reviews scientific papers to be
presented at the meeting. A wireless device may be particularly
important for younger patients and athletes, whose activity can
stress the leads, he said.  “For the most part, these devices are incredibly
reliable,” Day said in a telephone interview. “The Achilles
heel is the lead. Every time you move your arm, for example, you
are putting some strain on the lead. With this device, it’s no
longer hard wired.”  Researchers implanted the wireless pacemakers into three
patients at Homolka Hospital in  Prague  late last year,
successfully getting the miniature machines into the heart. In
two patients the process went smoothly and the device worked
properly right away. In the third patient, the doctors needed to
reposition it three times until it was in the optimal position
and pacing correctly. All three are still being followed.  The leads that accompany  standard pacemakers  often need to
be repositioned when they are inserted, Reddy said. The fact
that the researchers were able to do the same thing with the
leadless device was reassuring, he said. In addition, the
pacemaker has a “snare catheter” that can be used to remove
the device from the heart without surgery if needed, he said.  U.S. Studies  Studies of the device in the U.S. may begin within the next
year and take several years to complete, Reddy said. It’s not
clear how many patients are needed in studies of the pacemaker
to gain U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval.  Additional studies must confirm the devices will work for
years, Day said.  “We need to make sure not only can it be implanted and
done safely, but what we really need to know is how long this
holds up,” Day said. “You trade the leads for a new set of
problems. Now we are talking about wireless communication. It’s
not fool proof either, but I believe this is the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  