-- Natural Gas Drops in New York Before Report on U.S. Stockpiles
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n   a n d   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-05-09T09:46:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/natural-gas-drops-in-new-york-before-report-on-u-s-stockpiles.html
Natural gas futures fell in  New York 
before a report predicted to show an above-average gain in U.S.
stockpiles as warmer weather reduced demand for the heating and
power-plant fuel.  Gas slid 1.2 percent, approaching the lowest level in a
month. The  Energy Information Administration  release will show
inventories rose by 86 billion cubic feet in the seven days to
May 3, according to the median of 19 analyst estimates compiled
by  Bloomberg News . The five-year average supply gain for the
period is 69 billion cubic feet, EIA data show. Gas fell the
most in nine months on May 2 after the weekly report showed a
larger-than-predicted injection.  “This is going to be a scary day,”  Stephen Schork ,
president of Schork Group, an energy advisory company based in
Villanova,  Pennsylvania , said in an e-mailed research note.
“For a second week in row, the template looks to favor another
solid injection report.”  Next-month gas dropped 1.2 percent to $3.932 per million
British thermal units at 5:16 a.m. on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It touched $3.895 yesterday, the least since April 4,
after reaching an almost two-year high of $4.444 on May 1.  The mid-Atlantic states may see a brief surge of heat late
this week and then again late next week, according to Commodity
Weather Group LLC in Bethesda, Maryland. The forecaster sees
above-normal temperatures from California to the Midwest from
May 13 through May 22.  ‘Additional Selling’  Gas futures have dropped 11 percent from a 21-month
intraday high on May 1, falling below $4 per million British
thermal units for the first time in a month, after last week’s
supply increase came in above the median forecast.  “This is the lowest demand period that we are going
into,” said  Kyle Cooper , director of research with IAF Advisors
in Houston. “That fact that we dropped below the $4
psychological level, you would expect to see a little bit of
additional selling.”  Stockpile estimates compiled by Bloomberg range from
increases of 72 billion to 94 billion cubic feet. The EIA, the
statistical arm of the Energy Department, is scheduled to
release its weekly gas inventory report at 10:30 a.m. today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net ;
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  