-- Netflix-Hungry Air Travelers Get Broadband Boost From FCC
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-05-09T18:33:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/netflix-hungry-air-travelers-get-broadband-boost-from-fcc.html
The Federal Communications Commission
took a step toward improving Web access for air travelers,
voting to write rules to open frequencies for an air-to-ground
 Internet service  proposed by  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)   The agency in a 4-0 vote today advanced the plan to help
travelers pull in Facebook pages, spreadsheets, videos, games
and music on planes equipped with Wi-Fi systems. The next-generation service needs another vote before final approval by
the agency, which is changing leadership.  “We take an important step to improve in-flight broadband
service,” said FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski , who is to step
down May 17 after leading the agency since 2009. A successor
awaits Senate confirmation.  The global market for in-flight entertainment and
communications is estimated to grow to $3 billion in 2017, from
$2 billion in 2012,  Gogo Inc. (GOGO) , an in-flight communications
company, said in a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission April 16.  In 2012, Gogo served 1,811 commercial aircraft, or 82
percent of Internet-enabled North American planes, the company
said in its filing. The average revenue per passenger session
with the service was $9.74 in 2012, Gogo said in its filing.  It said about 32 percent of commercial aircraft in the
North American market were equipped to provide Internet services
to passengers in 2012 and “there is significant opportunity for
us to continue to expand.”  About one in 20 passengers on Gogo-equipped flights used
the service in 2012, according to the filing.  Surging Demand  The FCC in December voted to ease licensing requirements
for in-flight Internet services. The FCC shares regulation of
in-flight communications with the aviation agency. By opening
airwaves for the service, the FCC could help meet surging demand
that may strain existing ground-to-air Internet services, San
Diego-based Qualcomm told the FCC in filings. It asked the FCC
to auction frequencies for the new use.  The Qualcomm system is designed to offer travelers “in-flight broadband experience equivalent to what is available in
their homes, offices, parks, cars, buses, and trains,” Qualcomm
said.  Airlines already use some systems to send data to and from
aircraft, allowing passengers to connect to the Internet over a
Wi-Fi signal. Qualcomm told the FCC its proposed system would
have “significantly greater bandwidth” to support
“exponentially increasing data demands.”  Digital Travelers  In a survey this year, 40 percent of air travelers said
they had used the Internet on a flight in the 12 months,  Henry Harteveldt , a San Francisco-based travel analyst with Hudson
Crossing, said in an interview. The proportion will probably
grow as availability widens and ease of use improves, he said.  “The expectation of the traveler, especially the younger
generation of travelers, is they can and should be able to
remain connected anywhere at any time,” Harteveldt said.  Qualcomm’s proposed system “might mean prices would be
better,” Harteveldt said. “But more importantly it means more
people can use it, and do more with it.”  The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration allows use of Wi-Fi computers and tablets on flights at altitudes above 10,000
feet (3,048 meters), provided carriers have performed tests to
ensure the systems don’t interfere with aircraft systems. Making
mobile phone calls or connecting devices to the Internet via
wireless phone systems on flights is prohibited by the FCC.  Netflix, YouTube  Network congestion will increase as customers increasingly
use Google Inc.’s YouTube and  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) ’s video streaming,
and access Facebook, the most popular in-flight application,
Gogo said. In a filing Gogo said it supports more airwaves for
such services.  Gogo, formerly known as Aircell, has  filed  to make an
initial public share offering through underwriters including
Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Evercore Partners Inc.  Gogo, based in Itasca,  Illinois , uses 3 megahertz of
airwaves to provide its service; the Qualcomm proposal envisions
devoting 500 megahertz.  The new service can co-exist with offerings using the same
airwaves, and its ground-based technology would cost less than
satellite-based systems, Qualcomm said in filings.  The service would help satisfy travelers’ demands for
broadband access,  Fort Worth , Texas-based  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American
Airlines  said in a filing.  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) ’s
 United Airlines  in a 2011 filing said it uses Gogo and supports
Qualcomm’s proposal because “in order to meet growing broadband
connectivity demands on-board aircraft, substantially more
spectrum will be needed.”  Satellite Opposition  Qualcomm’s proposed system would degrade service by
satellites that generate more than $1 billion in annual revenue,
the Satellite Industry Association said in a May 2 filing. The
airwaves at issue are  used intensively  by the satellite
industry, the group said.  Activities that may suffer interference include satellite
news gathering, some business networks and broadband services
for rural America, said the Washington-based trade group with
members including Chicago-based Boeing Co., Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed Martin Corp., and  Falls Church , Virginia-based
Northrop Grumman Corp.  Qualcomm’s proposed air-ground mobile service would use
between 150 and 250 ground stations to transmit and receive
signals from aircraft, the FCC said as it requested comment on
the proposal.  Aircraft operators must certify to the  Federal Aviation
Administration  that any electronics on board are safe and won’t
interfere with navigation devices and other gear.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  