-- Nicole Kidman Touts Mall as Multiplan Expands: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-05-09T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/nicole-kidman-touts-mall-as-multiplan-expands-corporate-brazil.html
Multiplan Empreendimentos Imobiliarios
SA (MULT3) , the Brazilian mall developer that lured Gucci and  Prada  to
Rio de Janeiro, will expand its luxury segment after  revenue 
from its first high-end project topped its expectations.  Multiplan is evaluating projects in Rio and elsewhere to
mimic the success of VillageMall in Barra da Tijuca, the beach
neighborhood that will be the main stage for the 2016 Olympic
Games, said Chief Financial Officer Armando d’Almeida Neto.
VillageMall’s first-quarter sales beat company forecasts by 30
percent, said Gabriel Palumbo, the mall’s superintendent, in an
interview last month.  “Luxury brands or international brands are coming to
Brazil, some for the very first time -- it was important in this
sense,” d’Almeida Neto said in a telephone interview about
VillageMall. “We’re looking at opportunities” for new luxury
malls, he said.  The Rio-based developer is joining  Iguatemi Empresa de
Shopping Centers SA (IGTA3)  in targeting Brazil’s upper class as rising
prices and the slowest two-year expansion in over a decade hurt
retail sales. The strategy is helping to limit the drop in
Multiplan shares as an industry selloff wipes out $1.69 billion
in the market value of Brazil’s top five mall builders this
year.  Rio’s Potential  While brands from  Tiffany & Co. (TIF)  to Louis Vuitton flocked to
Sao Paulo several years ago, Rio’s potential as a destination
for high-end stores is a recent phenomenon fueled by investments
pouring into the city ahead of the Olympics and amid a ramp-up
in oil production, according to Carlos Ferreirinha, director of
luxury consultants MCF, who has worked with Multiplan and
several competitors.  “Everybody was searching for land in Barra da Tijuca to do
something to satisfy those customers who are hungry for new
levels of grandeur,” he said in a telephone interview from New
York. “Multiplan was faster.”  In 2012, 62 percent of luxury retail brands in Brazil
invested in Rio, up from 30 percent in 2011, the biggest jump
for any city, MCF estimates.  VillageMall is “the mall Rio was waiting for,” actress
Nicole Kidman says in a  television spot  for the shopping center
after she disembarks a jet and her limo slides past better-known
Ipanema beach en route to Barra da Tijuca.  Leapfrogging BR Malls  Multiplan leapfrogged BR Malls this month to become
Brazil’s biggest mall developer by market value after raising
626 million reais ($312 million) in an additional  share
offering . Itau BBA Securities reinstated its coverage of the
stock with a buy  rating  this week after the company said it aims
to expand the area available to lease by 72 percent through
2017.  The stock’s 3 percent  drop  this year is the smallest among
peers and compares with an 8.4 percent decline for Brazil’s
benchmark Ibovespa index.  JHSF Participacoes SA (JHSF3) , Brazil’s fifth-biggest mall developer by market value, posted the steepest
decline at 16 percent, followed by  BR Malls Participacoes SA (BRML3) ,
which fell 13 percent.  Inflation (BZPIIPCY)  topped the high end of the central bank’s target
range at 6.59 percent in March before dipping back down to 6.49
percent in April. Retail sales declined 0.4 percent in February,
surprising analysts who had forecast an increase. The national
statistics agency is set to report March retail sales on May 15.  Rising Rates  Increased borrowing costs “is the main reason for the fall
of the shopping mall stocks, because interest rates are always
considered the cost of opportunity,” Eduardo Silveira, analyst
at BES Securities  Brazil , said by phone from Sao Paulo. “It’s
uncertain by when and how much interest rates will rise, and how
the economy will be, and how the sector will respond.”  Brazil’s central bank last month raised its benchmark rate
for the first time since July 2011 to 7.50 percent from a record
low 7.25 percent.  Multiplan is also the most expensive mall developer,
trading at 31 times its trailing 12-month earnings, compared
with a ratio of 6.3 for BR Malls and 14 for Iguatemi.  “If you take all the malls in Brazil, the better locations
will always be Multiplan,” Marcelo Motta, a Latin America real-estate analyst at JPMorgan who rates the stock neutral, said in
a telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “Multiplan has this DNA
of developing greenfields and expansion, so investors feel a
little more comfortable giving them the benefit of the doubt.”  Proceeds from the recent share sale will help finance new
projects yet to be announced, Chief Executive Officer Jose Peres
said on a May 7 conference call. Among projects being considered
is an expansion of VillageMall, d’Almeida Neto said.  “When you have a large mall that generates sales, rentals,
very high metrics on a per-square meter basis, you create a
fortress,” d’Almeida Neto said. “That’s a concept we like.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in Rio de Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at   jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani at   asoliani@bloomberg.net  