-- Now It’s the NRA’s Turn to Understand Us
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2013-05-09T22:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/now-it-s-the-nra-s-turn-to-understand-us.html
Usually when a senator suffers a big
public defeat, he slinks off to lick his wounds. He rarely
retwists the arms that didn’t bend his way. Colleagues don’t
like to be seen switching. Were they horribly mistaken the first
time? Don’t know what they believe?  But Senator  Joe Manchin , Democrat of  West Virginia , thinks
he can get five senators to change their votes on a bill, killed
last month, that would expand background checks for gun buyers.
If so, his co-sponsor, Republican Patrick Toomey of
 Pennsylvania , is still on board -- and Majority Leader  Harry Reid  says he’ll bring the bill for a vote.  Manchin has a few things going for him. First, some of the
senators who voted against the bill have seen their favorability
ratings plummet. New Hampshire Republican  Kelly Ayotte , her
approval rating  down 15 percentage points , was  angrily
confronted  at a town-hall meeting by the daughter of a woman
killed at the massacre in Newtown, Connectictut, last year. By
contrast,  John McCain  of Arizona, who broke with his fellow
Republicans to support Manchin-Toomey, got a  bouquet of roses .  Manchin has one big thing against him, however: The
 National Rifle Association  is more fired up than ever.  Crazy Talk  The group’s members danced on the carcass of the failed
bill at their  annual meeting  last week in Houston. Rather than
mourn the loss of children’s lives in the Newtown attack, they
mourned the beating they’ve taken in its wake.  “The national media and their billionaire supporters attack
us, ridicule us and, worst of all, blame us for the acts of
violent criminals and madmen,” said Chris Cox, executive
director of the NRA’s Institute for Legislative Action. Members
roared in approval as Sarah Palin accused grieving parents of
allowing themselves to be used as props in exchange for a ride
on Air Force One.  Glenn Beck , who should be at the top of any
“Do Not Sell To” list, shouted tearfully that the “freedom of
all mankind is at stake” should any gun owner be the least bit
inconvenienced.  These people make NRA Executive Vice President Wayne LaPierre, the man who asked how many Bostonians wished they had
a gun at last month’s marathon, look almost reasonable.  Has the gulf between the NRA and the general public ever
been wider? There was a day when the NRA  supported  background
checks. Now it has essentially killed a modest effort to close a
loophole that would keep criminals and the mentally ill from
buying weapons at gun shows and on the Internet.  To all of which, Manchin says: Don’t confuse the NRA with
gun owners. A tiny percentage of the  NRA’s membership  was in
Houston. Most members, says Manchin, with his A rating from the
organization, can be worked with. Those in favor of gun safety
just have to find a way to talk to those in the  34 percent  of
U.S. households with a gun -- to feel their pain, understand
their hopes and fears, respect their way of life. Then we can
all get along.  I admire Manchin’s persistence and sincerity. I want him to
succeed. But he puts a heavy burden on the 90 percent  who favor 
background checks to understand the 10 percent who don’t. I
don’t need to be gay to understand gay rights. Why do I need to
own a gun to understand gun rights?  At any rate, my understanding wouldn’t affect my view of
the Manchin-Toomey bill. Family members would still be able to
sell to one another, over the Thanksgiving turkey or over the
Internet, as they prefer. There would be no regulation of
noncommercial sales. The bill would prohibit a national registry
and impose a 15-year felony sentence for any public official who
tries to start one.  Why is it up to those of us who don’t want felons, wife-beaters or terrorists to have guns, to understand gun owners?
They and their rural-hunting-sporting-suspicious culture must
always be respected. Don’t they have a corresponding obligation
to understand my side, much less the specifics of the Manchin-Toomey bill?  Reasonable Conversation  As if to prove his approach can work, Manchin scored a
small victory this week. Senator Jeff Flake, Republican of
 Arizona , said he  could support  Manchin-Toomey if he were
confident that it wouldn’t hamper online sales of guns among
friends and family in rural areas. You can see the deal here:
Manchin will offer reassurances so Flake can change his vote,
even though noncommercial sales are already excluded from
regulation in the bill. Flake’s approval rating may rise above
the level of “ pond scum ,” and love and understanding will fill
the air.  The reason for this asymmetry in understanding in the first
place is the NRA. Senators rush to accommodate the organization
because it is very effective at mobilizing its membership, and
its money, against politicians it doesn’t like. Money could
become less asymmetric in 2014, when funding from Mayors Against
Illegal Guns is deployed. (The group’s co-chairman is  New York 
City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg LP.) Pick off a couple of people voting against
Manchin-Toomey, and much of Congress will understand there’s a
new sheriff in town.  Right now, Manchin should be able to woo a few senators who
were appalled by the NRA’s convention. How could people cheer
while parents of slain six-year-olds are accused of being
puppets manipulated by Washington elites? Those parents are
shells of their former selves, yet they are driven to honor
their dead children by trying to bring some sense to our gun
culture. That, I understand.  (Margaret Carlson is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Margaret Carlson  at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 