-- To the Class of 2013: Resist Simplicity
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2013-05-09T22:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/to-the-class-of-2013-resist-simplicity.html
Members of the Class of 2013, I
salute you.  As everyone keeps telling you, you are graduating at a
difficult and even frightening time. I wish it were otherwise --
that my generation was bequeathing you a finer world. We aren’t.
The world into which you are entering is rich with challenges.
Many are scary.  This does not make your generation unique. Through the
nation’s history, America’s colleges and universities have sent
forth graduates in times of war, of fear, of economic risk.
Eighty years ago, the world was mired in a four-year-old
economic depression. Seventy years ago, many schools skipped
commencement exercises entirely because their graduates were all
heading off to World War II. Fifty years ago, Bull Connor was
setting fire hoses and police dogs on civil-rights marchers in
Birmingham,  Alabama . And 45 years ago, today’s exercises would
have been sandwiched between the murders of  Martin Luther King Jr . and  Robert Kennedy .  In short, there was never a golden age -- a period when new
graduates could step into the world and simply start building
careers and families without worry.  So what is the great challenge of your generation?
Protecting the environment? Increasing equality? Abating
poverty? Achieving world peace?  Defining Challenge  I am going to suggest that it is none of the above.
Instead, your great challenge is to regain the high ground my
generation once championed and has long forgotten: the freedom
to think for yourselves.  I mean this quite seriously.  We live in the era of groupthink, when to disagree is to be
tagged as either wicked or stupid -- either way, as part of the
enemy. We  baby boomers  marched on campus in the 1960s and ’70s
for the right to make up our own minds, but now that we hold
positions of power, we seem to view opposition or even criticism
as dangerous. And yet, given the complexities of the modern
world, there has never been a time when thinking for yourself is
more vital.  The philosopher Isaiah Berlin once wrote that most of the
great evil in the world has come about because of people who
have decided that they have found the one true idea, an idea
before which everything else must yield. I think his argument is
incomplete. The great evil comes about because large groups of
people agree on the one true idea -- and other groups of people,
often larger, find it easier to go along than to raise a voice
in opposition.  My father used to say that the best place for an
intellectual is where it’s least crowded. What he meant was that
it’s important for us to pursue our own ideas, rather than join
the herd.  Bertrand Russell, in his essay “In Praise of Idleness,”
warned that it’s vital for us to spend time alone with our
thoughts, away from any other influences. We must put down even
our books for a time -- if he were alive today, he might advise
us to put down our iPhones -- because only when we are alone
with our thoughts do we actually have any thoughts of our own.
The rest of the time, we are simply responding to the ideas of
others.  This seems to me exactly right. The great tragedy of my
generation is how little space we have left for truly
independent thought. Criticism of political leaders is equated
with hatred for them -- and so naturally the supporters of
whoever is being criticized wind up hating right back.  When I write a column criticizing the president, I am
inundated with e-mails asking why I hate him so much. When I
write a column supporting him, my e-mail inbox overflows with
people questioning my intelligence or my sanity.  Seeing Neighbors  I suppose what I am asking, then, is that you not be like
us. That, it seems to me, is the key to your generation’s
ability to build a better America. Make politics a smaller piece
of your lives. When you look at those with whom you disagree on
issues large or small, see them as neighbors rather than
enemies. Consider the possibility that some issues are hotly
divisive precisely because both sides are making good arguments.
Perhaps we fight hardest over the issues that are actually hard.  So much of politics is devoted to the silly proposition
that enormously complex questions can be reduced to the size of
a bumper sticker. The theory seems to be that if you only find
the right slogan, the argument is already half won. We see this
in such phrases as “Death Tax” and “The War on Women” -- slogans
that are almost adolescent in their tragic oversimplification,
but that nevertheless have been enormously successful through
their tendency to shortcut such democratic niceties as
recognizing that the other fella might have a point.  And adolescent is the right word. My generation has an
alarming tendency toward what the novelist John le Carre refers
to as “a militant simplicity.” This is the trap that your
generation must avoid.  Here it is useful to consider the wisdom of the always
profound Ray Bradbury. Most of us remember his most famous
novel, “Fahrenheit 451,” as the story of a society in which the
job of firefighters is to burn any books that might be
discovered. But, as Bradbury himself noted on more than one
occasion, to read this as simply a cautionary tale against
censorship is to miss the point.  In Bradbury’s telling, the book burning didn’t originate
from above. It was what we nowadays refer to as a grassroots
movement. And the movement wasn’t to ban unpopular ideas. It was
to ban complex ideas. Books were the enemy because books were
difficult, and deep, and had the terrible property of changing
people’s minds. People didn’t want their minds changed. They
didn’t want their beliefs challenged. They wanted not complexity
but simplicity.  Valuing Complexity  Therein lies the problem. Few ideas of genuine value can
fit on a bumper sticker, or in a sound bite or blog post or even
an opinion column. Some ideas really do need to be argued for
thousands and thousands of words. To the extent that we find
arguments of that length no longer interesting, we are already
in Bradbury’s world, the books merrily burning away, all in the
cause of keeping ideas simple.  This, it seems to me, is the greatest challenge facing your
generation. Yes, there is an economy that must be repaired; yes,
there is an educational system that must be revitalized; yes,
there are enemies abroad who must be defeated.  But none of these achievements will matter unless you also
make war upon my generation’s celebration of the slogan and the
applause line.  Simplicity is the enemy of serious thought, and serious
thought is what this world desperately needs. And if we
Americans find ourselves unable or unwilling to take the time to
think deeply, then some wiser, more serious, more reflective
culture will supersede ours. And our defeat will be entirely
deserved.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at  Yale University . He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama,” and the
novel “The Impeachment of  Abraham Lincoln .” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu  or @StepCarter on
Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net  