-- Obama Earmarks $150 Million for Clinics to Publicize Law
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-05-09T16:09:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/obama-earmarks-150-million-for-clinics-to-publicize-law.html
The Obama administration is enlisting
the help of community health clinics to promote the 2010 health-care law in a $150 million effort to make sure uninsured people
are aware of new medical coverage options available Oct. 1.  The money will let the clinics hire and train staff and
conduct community outreach and other educational activities, the
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services said today in a
statement. The $150 million is being taken out a pool of $9.5
billion that was already going to community clinics to help them
treat more patients as part of the Affordable Care Act.  The clinics may become a key avenue for President  Barack Obama ’s effort to get millions of uninsured people enrolled in
new state-run insurance exchanges or in government Medicaid
programs. About 36 percent of community health center patients
are uninsured, said Martin Kramer, a spokesman for the HHS’s
Health Resources and Services Administration, in an e-mail.  “Investing in health centers for outreach and enrollment
assistance provides one more way the Obama administration is
helping consumers understand their options and enroll in
affordable coverage,” Health and Human Services Secretary
Kathleen Sebelius said in the statement.  There are about 8,700 of the clinics nationwide, and they
are expected to see about 21 million low-income patients this
year.  On Oct. 1, new insurance marketplaces called exchanges open
in every state to sell policies to people who don’t get coverage
through their jobs. The government has said it plans to spend
about $1.5 billion through the end of September building the
exchanges. It hasn’t announced a similar budget for marketing,
to make sure the exchanges have enough customers to be viable.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  