-- Obama’s Calorie Display Rules Delayed by Grocer Blowback
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2013-05-10T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/obama-s-calorie-display-rules-delayed-by-grocer-blowback.html
The lobbyist for grocers including
 Kroger Co. (KR)  and  Safeway Inc. (SWY)  is calling on President  Barack Obama 
to curtail a U.S. health law provision that mandates the
companies display the calorie content of all their foods.  The Food Marketing Institute, an Arlington, Virginia-based
trade group, said Obama should step in before the  Food and Drug
Administration  puts the new rules into effect, intervening as he
has with other provisions of the Affordable Care Act that carry
unintended consequences.  The proposed rule is unpopular among some  restaurant chains 
such as  Domino’s Pizza Inc. (DPZ)  that complain about the cost of new
signage and grocers that say the diversity of their products
creates a logistical nightmare. The industries have backed
 legislation  that would limit the rules to only provide the data
online in some cases, and apply the labeling only to stores with
more than half their revenue from food prepared on site.  The mandate “was slipped into the ACA without debate and
hearings,” said Erik Lieberman, regulatory counsel for the
institute, in a phone interview yesterday. “There are options
to minimize costs and to quantify the burden on industry.”  The White House Office of Management and Budget “is
charged with reviewing these regulations and they have an
obligation” to do it in this case, he said. “They can put a
check on the FDA, and the president should make sure they do
that.”  FDA Timeline  While FDA commissioner  Margaret Hamburg  told lawmakers in
April she sought to issue a final rule this year, the agency has
since declined to give a potential schedule.  Michael Taylor , the
FDA’s deputy commissioner for foods, said that’s because they’re
still wrestling with the potential fallout.  “Implementation raises complex issues that FDA is working
to address in a practical way that achieves the congressional
objective of providing information consumers can use to choose
healthy diets,” Taylor said in an e-mail response to questions.  The Obama administration is opting to delay some aspects of
the 2010 health-care law. It temporarily backed away from
restrictions on coverage for executives and a promise to offer
small businesses greater choices of health plans.  Movie theaters and bowling alleys have lobbied for an
exemption and the White House budget office, in a report last
year, called menu labeling among the most  burdensome  paperwork
requirements in the health law.  Industry Cost  The budget office should push back within the confines of
the law by promoting options that contain cost and quantify the
burden on industry, Lieberman said.  “The cost to the grocery industry would be $1 billion in
the first year,” Lieberman said.  The FDA may also impose criminal penalties on retail
executives if stores fail to comply, he said.  Mary Lynne Carraway, who owns 72 Domino’s Pizza stores,
said she already spends about $60,000 a year to continually
update calorie totals on menu boards at 10 of her stores in
Montgomery County,  Maryland , where the government requires such
displays. She said expanding the practice to all her locations
because of the new federal rules will be too burdensome.  “This is just confusing and a big expense to us,”
Carraway said in an interview.  The pizza and grocery industries are seeking help from
Congress, backing legislation introduced in March that would
limit the FDA’s ability to regulate food stores. The proposed
 legislation  would let nutrition information be provided via the
Internet when the majority of consumers aren’t walk-in, and
labeling would only apply to stores that get more than half of
their total revenue from restaurant-style food prepared on site.
A convenience store that sold gas, for example, may be exempt.  Common Sense  “The goal is to get some common sense menu provisions,”
Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers, a Republican from
Washington state who sponsored the bill, said by telephone. “To
display on menu boards the hundreds of pizza combinations is
really impossible.”  The aim of the rules is to provide nutrition information on
food purchased outside the home amid an obesity epidemic that
led to $147 billion in medical costs in 2008. Americans spend
almost half their food dollars on meals and snacks eaten outside
the home, according to the advocacy group National Consumers
League.  The industry backlash is nonsense and calorie counts will
help consumers make healthier choices,  Margo Wootan , nutrition
policy director at the Center for Science in the Public
Interest, a Washington-based consumer advocate, said by
telephone. Industry groups are hyping the costs, she said.  Display Rules  “Pizza has to be one of the most irresponsible segments of
the restaurant industry,” Wootan said. “They want out of menu
labeling. They talk about how it will cost like $50,000 a menu
board, and it’s just not true.”  Pizza restaurants,  convenience stores , restaurants, fast-food operations, and grocery stores would have to display
calories on menus and boards under the initial plan, including
drive-through menu boards. Movie theaters would be exempt under
the proposal, as would alcoholic beverages.  Establishments would also have to provide written nutrition
information on request, including calories from fat, trans fat,
sodium, dietary fiber and protein. More than one third of U.S.
adults are obese, according to the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention in Atlanta.  Kroger (KRG) , the largest U.S. grocery chain with more than 2,400
grocery stores in 31 states, said in a July 2011 comment letter
to the FDA that the proposal would cost the company more than
$15 million to set up the program and more than $4 million a
year to maintain. The Cincinnati-based chain said it would need
to have thousands of items undergo laboratory tests to determine
nutritional content of products such as sushi, bagels, hot
soups, and olive and salad bars.  Consumer Focus  For Domino’s putting calorie counts on menu boards that
must be frequently changed would cost as much as $4,800 a year
per store, said Melissa Cummings, who works in legislative
affairs at the  Ann Arbor , Michigan-based company and is
secretary of the  American Pizza Community , a coalition of pizza
businesses.  “That’s 10 percent of profits,” she said. Domino’s has
5,000 stores in the U.S. owned by 1,100 franchisees.  Other food retailers back the main thrust of the proposal.
Wegmans Food Markets Inc., a supermarket chain based in
Rochester,  New York , already provides nutrition information and
sees it as a cost of doing business, Jane Andrews, who manages
the company’s nutrition and product labeling, said by telephone.  “People need information in order to make decisions and
most consumers care about what they eat,” Andrews said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  