-- Obama Austin Tech Tour Raises Democrat Profile in Texas
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-05-09T22:49:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/obama-austin-tech-tour-raises-democrat-profile-in-texas.html
President  Barack Obama  urged lawmakers
to approve more federal spending for technology education,
training and jobs, holding up the Austin, Texas, area’s economic
boom as an example for the rest of the country.  The Texas visit today was one of a series of events across
the country that the administration says are meant to build
pressure on Congress to adopt economic ideas laid out in Obama’s
 State of the Union  address this year.  “We’re poised for a time of progress, if we’re willing to
seize it,” Obama said in an address to executives and workers
at  Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT) , which makes products for the
semiconductor, display panel and solar industries worldwide.  Obama met with students, local residents, investors and
entrepreneurs as he made his way across the city. He announced
competitions for three manufacturing innovation centers and an
executive order requiring government data to be released in a
form that entrepreneurs and researchers can use to generate
applications and new services.  Obama blamed political posturing in Congress for blocking
his proposals, which he said would foster research that benefits
technology companies and help train workers for those
industries.  Sending Message  Obama told company workers that when they talk to their
elected officials, “You’ve got to remind them, we don’t want
government to do everything for us but it’s got a role to play”
on infrastructure and research funding.  Addressing a group of “angel investors” during an earlier
stop at an incubator for technology startups, Obama said
government can play a “beneficial” role in helping the private
sector spur  job creation .  He said he was concerned about the impact of the automatic,
across-the-board federal spending cuts known as sequestration.
The cuts are “effectively freezing basic research” spending
over the next one to two years.  “We could end up losing our edge” to economic competitors
in  Asia , he said.  Obama said Austin is an example of the kind of cooperation
between government and business that can foster innovation.  Austin Economy  The metropolitan area centered by the state  capital , which
has about 820,600 residents, had a March jobless rate of 5.3
percent, compared with 7.6 percent nationwide. Computer
manufacturer  Dell Inc. (DELL)  is based in nearby  Round Rock , and  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  has announced plans to double the size of its 3,500-employee customer-support center in Austin over the next decade.  “I’ve come to listen and learn and highlight some of the
good work that’s being done,” Obama said at Manor New
Technology High School in the Austin suburb of East Manor, where
he inspected solar and robotic projects developed by students.
“Folks around here are doing something right.”  Education Secretary Arne Duncan in 2010 cited the school as
boosting opportunities for low-income and minority youth. Of the
school’s 341 students last year, 46 percent were economically
disadvantaged, 48 percent were Latino, 25 percent were white and
21 percent were black, according to data provided by the school
district.  Government Data  Today’s executive order, designed to make government data
more readily available in user-friendly formats, may spark new
industries and jobs, just as weather data from government
satellites led to creation of the Weather Channel and the
military-based global positioning system inspired a new
generation of GPS systems for use in automobiles and aircraft,
according to a White House statement.  “Just these two types of open government data, weather and
GPS, alone have added tens of billions of dollars in annual
value to the American economy,” Todd Park, White House chief
technology officer, told reporters.  The visit -- Obama’s second trip to Texas in two weeks --
also takes place as U.S. lawmakers begin consideration of an
immigration bill. Hispanics make up 38 percent of the state’s
population. Texas also is a target for Democrats who want to
overturn the  Republican Party ’s dominance in statewide and
federal elections there.  Obama made no reference to immigration in his remarks,
though he has repeatedly linked the issue to future economic
growth. Marshall Fitz, director of immigration policy at the
Center for American Progress, a Washington policy institute with
ties to the administration, said Texas is a good example for the
administration.  “Texas employers have been at the vanguard of calling for
sensible immigration reform, so the economics of this issue
resonates very acutely in Texas,” Fitz said.  Obama last month joined four former U.S. presidents in
 Dallas  to dedicate the George W. Bush Presidential Center. He
also attended a memorial service for residents and emergency
workers killed in an April 17 fire and explosion at a fertilizer
plant in West,  Texas , near Waco.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Austin, Texas, at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  