-- OGX Short Interest Soars to Record as Exchange Raises Limit
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-05-09T21:36:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/ogx-short-interest-soars-to-record-as-exchange-increases-limit.html
Bets against OGX Petroleo & Gas
Participacoes SA, the oil producer controlled by billionaire
 Eike Batista , soared to a record after  Brazil ’s stock exchange
increased the limit on the contracts.  The number of short-interest contracts on the company’s
shares rose to 422.1 million yesterday, the highest level since
Bloomberg started compiling the data in 2010. The ratio of
borrowed shares, an indication of short selling, was 33.5
percent of the shares available for trading, the highest among
members of the Ibovespa benchmark gauge after Eletropaulo
Metropolitana Eletricidade de  Sao Paulo  SA. That compares with
19 percent on April 9 and 11 percent on Jan. 2.  BM&FBovespa SA (BVMF3) , the operator of Brazil’s exchange, said in
a statement that it raised the short-interest limit on the stock
to 45 percent from 30 percent effective yesterday. In a short
sale, traders sell borrowed stock, anticipating the price will
drop so they can profit by buying back shares at a lower price.  “This brings more volatility to the stock; it’s a cascade
effect,” Sandro Fernandes, a trader at Corval Corretora de
Valores SA, said in a telephone interview from  Belo Horizonte ,
Brazil. “The bigger the percentage limit, the more speculators
will want it.”  OGX has tumbled 88 percent in the past 12 months as
production setbacks spurred concern that Batista’s businesses
are losing access to financing.  Falling Shares  Shares of the Rio de Janeiro-based company slumped 6.3
percent to 1.65 reais at the close of trading in Sao Paulo,
contributing the most to the benchmark Ibovespa’s 0.6 percent
decline. The stock’s 90-day  volatility  increased to 102.7, the
highest level since 2009, as traders awaited the company’s
first-quarter results after the close of trading.  “The market already expects results not to be strong,”
Ari Santos, an equity trading manager in Sao Paulo at H.
Commcor, said in a telephone interview. “It’s a very volatile
stock and very liquid. There’s a lot of speculation with it.
You’re going to get to a point where you don’t have stocks to
loan. I don’t think the exchange will increase the limit
again.”  OGX’s press office declined to comment on the short
contracts on the stock in an e-mailed response to questions
today.  Batista’s units have the “necessary funding established
for the coming years,” EBX Group Co., his holding company, said
in a statement March 18. Five days later, Batista said in posts
on his Twitter account that short sellers betting on declines in
the stock would be “caught with their pants down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  