-- Old Mutual First-Quarter Sales Flat on Regulatory Changes
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-05-09T06:59:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/old-mutual-first-quarter-sales-flat-on-regulatory-changes.html
Old Mutual Plc (OML) ,  Africa ’s biggest
insurer, said first-quarter life insurance sales held at 269
million pounds ($418 million), missing analysts’ estimates, as
regulatory changes in the U.K. hurt savings inflows.  Life insurance revenue, taking into account exchange rate
fluctuations, missed the 272 million-pound average estimate of
15  analysts  surveyed by the company. Fund sales dropped 3
percent to 3.32 billion pounds from a year earlier, London-based
Old Mutual said in a statement today. Analysts had forecast 3.24
billion pounds.  “The continued uncertainty around new regulations has had
an impact on distribution in the U.K.,” Old Mutual said in the
statement. Still, Chief Executive Officer Julian Roberts said
that “against a backdrop of continued challenging macroeconomic
conditions, we are confident in the prospects for the group for
the full year,”  Old Mutual is focusing on selling life insurance in fast-growing African countries such as  Kenya  and long-term savings
products in the U.K. after cutting costs, selling assets and
paying down debt to return to profit after the financial crisis.
The U.K. this year banned fund management and life insurance
firms from paying commission to financial advisers in return for
sales, undermining demand for some products.  Old Mutual’s funds under management from core operations
rose 10 percent to 288.4 billion pounds, boosted by rising
equity markets and higher inflows into its U.S. and African
business. That beat analysts’ estimate of 276.9 billion pounds.  The insurer set aside 5 billion rand ($560 million) to buy
stakes in firms selling life insurance and savings products to
Africa’s growing middle class, Roberts said in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 