-- Morrison Faces Second Year of Falling Same-Store Sales, CEO Says
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-05-09T10:25:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/morrison-first-quarter-sales-decline-as-competition-intensifies.html
William Morrison Supermarkets Plc (MRW) 
faces a second year of declining same-store revenue as a lack of
convenience stores and the absence of an online grocery business
hampers progress, Chief Executive Officer Dalton Philips said.  The retailer will “definitely not” report an increase in
comparable sales this year, Philips said on a conference call
today after Bradford, England-based Morrison reported a 1.8
percent drop for the first quarter. Same-store sales fell 2.1
percent in the company’s last financial year.  “We face these structural headwinds of not being in those
two emerging channels, online and convenience stores,” Philips
said on the call. “Until we have a meaningful presence” in
those areas, “we are always going to face that.”  The smallest of the U.K.’s four main supermarket chains has
been losing market share to discounters such as Aldi and Lidl as
well as upscale competitors such as Waitrose. Its sales
performance has also fallen behind  Tesco Plc, (TSCO)  which operates
more than 1,500 convenience stores, and J Sainsbury Plc, which
has more than 500 smaller outlets and said yesterday it would
continue to open them at a pace of one-to-two a week. Morrison
plans to have 100 convenience stores by the end of the year.  The  shares  fell 2.8 percent to 288.1 pence at 10:37 a.m. in
London trading. They have increased 9.5 percent this year after
dropping 19 percent in 2012.  Philips repeated today that Morrison is on track to start
an online grocery service by January 2014. He declined to
comment on progress in talks with  Ocado Group Plc (OCDO)  about using
the Internet grocer’s technology and operational know-how.  Ocado Slides  “We’re going online” and “we’re not dependent on a deal
with Ocado,” Philips said on the call.  Ocado  fell  as much as 12 percent in London trading and was
down 5.3 percent at 198.9 pence as of 10:37 a.m. The stock rose
12 percent yesterday on anticipation of news on the talks.  Morrison is “comfortable” with analyst estimates for a
1.5 percent drop in full-year same-store sales, Philips said.  “Although we remain cautious on the economic environment
and consumer spending, our full-year expectations remain
unchanged,” the grocer said in the statement.  Estimates for pretax profit of about 810 million pounds
($1.26 billion) “are in the right ball park,” Finance Director
Trevor Strain said on the call.  Morrison “continued to underperform its peers” in the
first quarter, Clive Black, an analyst at Shore Capital in
Liverpool, said in a note. Sainsbury has reported 33 consecutive
quarters of like-for-like sales growth, while market leader
Tesco halted a run of declines in its most recent quarter.  Ant & Dec  The sales decline represented an improvement on the
previous quarter, when same-store revenue dropped 4.1 percent,
according to Philip Dorgan, an analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co.  “This had, however, been expected” and “reflects a
return to basics and the fact that it is communicating its
points of difference better,” Dorgan said in a note. He has a
sell recommendation on the stock.  To improve sales, Philips is placing an emphasis on fresh
produce and a high-profile advertising campaign featuring
television presenters Ant & Dec. The CEO didn’t get a bonus and
was paid almost 40 percent less last year as the company failed
to meet targets, Morrison said in its annual report this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  