-- Most Scots Want Trident Weapons Renewed, Poll Shows
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-05-09T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/most-scots-want-trident-weapons-renewed-poll-shows.html
A majority of Scottish voters want
the U.K.’s Trident nuclear missiles replaced when they are
decommissioned, according to a poll published today.  The findings contradict a TNS BRMB  survey  commissioned by
the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament in February. That showed 60
percent of Scots opposed the main U.K. parties’ policy of
replacing the existing Tridents over the next two decades with
an upgraded system; 14 percent were in favor.  “Trying to show that people think what you want them to
think is not the same thing as trying to find out what they
really do think,” Michael Ashcroft, the upper-house
Conservative lawmaker who commissioned the poll, said in an e-mailed statement.  The ruling Scottish National Party last year reversed its
30-year opposition to membership of the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization, the defense umbrella for the U.S. and most of
 Europe . It set a condition that in the event of Scottish
independence after next year’s referendum all existing nuclear
weapons on Scottish soil are removed and it isn’t asked to host
any in the future.  Fifty-one percent of respondents want Trident replaced with
an equally powerful system or a less powerful, cheaper system,
according to today’s poll, said Ashcroft, who regularly
commissions surveys on political issues. Thirty-four percent of
voters want the weapons scrapped and 16 percent don’t know.  ‘Misleading’ Impression  CND’s poll omitted to mention that the government was
planning to replace Trident because it was coming to the end of
its working life and gave a “misleading” impression of the
cost, Ashcroft said.  Six out of 10 of those who support Trident’s replacement
want a cheaper, less powerful alternative, according to
Ashcroft’s poll.  While a majority approves Trident’s replacement, 48 percent
of respondents said they are in principle opposed to the U.K.
having nuclear weapons, with 37 percent in support.  Independence, the SNP’s flagship policy, is championed by
30 percent of voters and opposed by 56 percent, according to the
poll. The 26 percentage-point gap in favor of staying in the
U.K. is in line with a 28-point difference reported yesterday by
Ipsos MORI.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  