-- Ottavio Missoni, Founder of Italian Fashion House, Dies at 92
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-05-09T08:58:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/ottavio-missoni-founder-of-italian-fashion-house-dies-at-92.html
Ottavio Missoni, founder of the
Italian fashion company known for its zig-zag knitwear, has
died. He was 92.  Missoni died “peacefully” in his home in Sumirago, a town
near the northern city of Varese, the company said in an e-mailed statement today. It didn’t give additional details.
Missoni was released May 1 from a hospital in Varese after being
treated for a respiratory problem, Corriere della Sera reported
the same day on its website.  Missoni founded the fashion company in the 1950s with his
wife Rosita. With designs worn by celebrities including Madonna
and Jennifer Lopez, the fashion house has expanded its store
networks and diversified its business by designing hotels and
tableware. A lower-priced line, M Missoni, was introduced in
1998 to broaden the brand’s customer base.  Missoni’s scion Vittorio and his partner have been missing
since January after the small plane they were traveling in
vanished off the coast of  Venezuela . The company is run by
Ottavio Missoni’s son Luca and his sister Angela. Alberto Piantoni was appointed chief executive officer in 2011.  Fashion houses have been rocked with tragedy in recent
decades, including the 1997 murder of Gianni Versace, the
founder and designer for the firm of the same name. Versace’s
siblings took over the company after his death, with his sister
Donatella heading up the designs.  Missoni’s 2011 collaboration with  Target Corp. (TGT)  won
international headlines when the website of the second-largest
U.S. discount retailer crashed because of higher-than-expected
demand for the brand’s maxi dresses and home furnishings at a
fraction of their typical cost. In recent years, Missoni has
collaborated with companies including stroller maker Bugaboo and
Valentino Fashion Group, with which it has a global development
agreement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  