-- House Passes Measure Exempting Debt Payments From Cap
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2013-05-09T16:52:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/house-passes-measure-exempting-debt-payments-from-cap.html
The House voted to exempt federal
payments to creditors from the U.S. debt limit, signaling the
start of the latest debate over the nation’s borrowing
authority.  The 221-207 vote today, mostly along party lines, seeks to
insulate Republicans from criticism that they would let the U.S.
default on its  debt . The bill has almost no chance of advancing
in the Democratic-led Senate and faces a veto threat from
President  Barack Obama .  The House measure would ensure that U.S. government
bondholders will continue to be paid and that Social Security
benefits won’t be interrupted if a stand-off over the nation’s
debt limit causes a cash crunch. The Obama administration would
be left to decide which of the government’s other bills to pay
using incoming  tax revenue .  “This is in fact a strong help for anyone who would be for
monetary and fiscal integrity,” Representative Pete Sessions, a
Texas Republican, said in an interview today. “We did that to
help, not just the president, but to make sure paying the bills
didn’t get in the way” in the event there’s no agreement on
raising the debt ceiling.  Eight Republicans voted against the measure, including
Justin Amash of  Michigan , Charlie Dent of  Pennsylvania , Chris Gibson and Michael Grimm of  New York , Walter Jones of  North
Carolina , Frank LoBiondo of  New Jersey , Thomas Massie of
 Kentucky  and Frank Wolf of Virginia.  Democratic Opponents  Democrats opposed the legislation, saying it would be
irresponsible to pay foreign creditors ahead of Americans who
need their government checks.  “I call it the ‘pay-China-first’ bill, because what it
really means is we’ll pay China before we’ll pay veterans,
before we’ll pay seniors, before we’ll pay contractors,”
Maryland Representative  Steny Hoyer , the second-ranking House
Democrat, told reporters this week. “We’ll pay China first.”  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, also
criticized the measure.  “If that legislation were used in a model government class
in eighth grade it would get an F,” Reid told reporters after
the House vote today. “It would put the full faith and credit
of the  United States  in jeopardy and they know that.”  Debt Prioritization  The reason for the measure -- referred to as a debt-prioritization bill -- is simple:  House Republicans  won’t agree
to a debt ceiling increase later this year without equal
spending cuts. That could lead to a months-long standoff with
Obama and Senate Democrats.  Republicans maintain they’re thinking ahead about handling
the debt ceiling and the Senate would be wrong to not consider
the measure.  “The Senate would be opting for another showdown, another
unnecessary round of uncertainty if they weren’t to take this
bill up,” said Representative  Kevin Brady , a Texas Republican.
“It makes sense to do this unless you want to flirt with
default, which we don’t. Why not take it off the table?”  Congress voted at the end of January to suspend the
nation’s $16.4 trillion debt limit until May 19, temporarily
removing the risk of a default. When the ceiling is restored May
19, it will be increased to reflect the government’s borrowing
during the past few months.  Treasury Department  The Treasury Department can ward off a default for several
months beyond May by shifting money among government accounts.
The latest estimates are the limit would be reached in
September.  “Our goal here is to not default on our debt. Our goal
here is to get ourselves on a sustainable path from a fiscal
standpoint,” House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview May 7. “Doing a debt
prioritization bill makes it clear to our bondholders that we’re
going to meet our obligation.”  The bill, H.R. 807, would exempt from the limit federal
payments on the principal and interest owed to bondholders. That
would help ensure the government wouldn’t default on those
payments even if incoming tax revenue on any given day wasn’t
enough to cover the obligations.  To ensure that Social Security benefit checks aren’t
interrupted, the measure would exempt interest payments to the
Social Security trust fund. It also would require the Treasury
to provide a weekly report to Congress accounting for all the
exempted payments made.  The Obama administration opposes the Republican measure,
saying it masks the real issue.  Missing any of the government’s bills, regardless of who is
owed, would be “another form of default -- you’re just choosing
what to default on,” Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew told the
House Budget Committee last month.  Boehner said the bill takes a fair approach.  “Those who have loaned us money, like in any other
proceeding, if you will, court proceeding, the bondholders
usually get paid first. Same thing,” Boehner said in the
Bloomberg Television interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  