-- End the Home Mortgage Deduction
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-05-09T15:41:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/housing-recovery-opens-window-to-fix-homeowner-tax-breaks.html
The U.S. housing market continues to
recover. This week, we learned that the number of homeowners who
are newly delinquent on their mortgages has  fallen  to pre-2007
levels. Housing prices also rose 9.3 percent in February for the
biggest year-to-year advance since May 2006. To top it off,
 Fannie Mae , the government-owned mortgage financier, today said
it is  returning  $59.4 billion to taxpayers after a record
quarterly profit.  This newfound strength creates an opportunity to address
two tax breaks that are expensive, distortive and unfair:
deductions for mortgage-interest payments and local property
taxes.  Together, these so-called tax expenditures  transfer about
$120 billion annually  to homeowners. More than 70 percent of
that goes to people in the  top fifth  of the  income distribution .  The mortgage-interest deduction subsidizes excessive
borrowing,  encourages speculation  and increases the chance of
default. Subsidized borrowing also makes housing more expensive
than it otherwise would be. Meanwhile, the property-tax
deduction exacerbates educational inequality because wealthier
areas collect more property taxes and generally offer better
schools as a result.  Right now, anyone borrowing money to buy or improve a home
can deduct the interest payments on the first $1 million of
debt. The deduction can be used to purchase vacation homes or
investment properties, as well as primary residences. Interest
payments on as much as $100,000 in  home-equity  debt are also
deductible.  Wealthy Homeowners  If all this sounds like a benefit targeted toward the well-to-do, it is: According to the U.S. Census Bureau, the median
sales price of new single-family homes in the U.S. was only
$247,000 in March 2013. In addition, because wealthy homeowners
are in higher tax brackets, they get larger tax benefits from
deducting $1 of mortgage interest and property taxes than
middle-class households get.  If we were starting from scratch, we would never have
created either tax break. Unfortunately, both loopholes have
been around for so long that they are ingrained in the decisions
of most Americans. Reformers must avoid setting back the
recovery with sudden changes in the tax code that could cause a
stampede of selling and a sharp drop in prices. We think a
gradualist approach would sidestep such dangers.  Other countries provide useful examples.  Australia ,  Canada ,
 New Zealand  and the U.K. don’t have comparable housing
subsidies, yet their  homeownership rates  are all higher than in
the U.S. When the U.K. phased out its tax subsidies -- they were
even more generous than the U.S.’s -- from 1974 to 1999,  house
prices  and ownership rates increased.  To begin winding down subsidies in the U.S., we would
immediately limit the mortgage-interest deduction to primary
residences and lower the mortgage cap to $700,000 from $1
million. Each year, the cap could be lowered by $25,000. At this
rate, the subsidy would be gone in 28 years.  At the same time, we would cap the value of the mortgage-interest and property-tax breaks at 28 percent, so that everyone
who claims $1 of deductions gets the same 28 cent benefit. This
would reduce the subsidy to the highest earners while protecting
the middle class. Taxpayers in lower brackets would get a
slightly more generous break than they do now. The value of the
deduction could be reduced by one percentage point per year,
also ending it completely after 28 years.  Tax Credit  These changes would raise taxes on tens of millions of
households. Congress could use the extra revenue to trim the
deficit, although we wouldn’t recommend that -- the economy
needs more, not less, stimulus right now. We would prefer
offsetting the fiscal drag from the tax increase by giving a
refundable tax credit to everyone, including those who don’t
currently claim either deduction.  Some might say that these reforms could hurt both the
housing market and the recovery. There are good reasons to think
otherwise. Residential construction hasn’t contributed much to
 economic growth  or to  employment  in the recovery. More
important, the  U.S. economy  is much  less dependent  on house
prices than in the past.  Housing affects the economy mostly because home equity can
be used to finance  consumer spending . From 2002 to 2006,
subprime loans and rising house prices funded about $1.25
trillion of consumption. But it was mostly borrowers who had
been unable to get credit who went on a spending spree. Millions
of subprime borrowers have since lost their homes and their
access to credit markets, which is one reason recent increases
in house prices haven’t translated into greater consumer
spending.  By contrast, wealthier homeowners with higher credit scores
are less sensitive to changes in house prices. They didn’t alter
their spending during the boom years -- and aren’t doing so now.  All of which is to say that a simpler, fairer  tax code  will
not devastate the housing market and the broader economy -- as
long as the U.S. proceeds gradually.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  