-- Ouya $99 Game Device Gains $15 Million in Venture Backing
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-05-09T09:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/ouya-99-game-device-gains-15-million-in-venture-backing.html
Ouya Inc., the maker of a $99 video-game console that uses Google Inc.’s Android operating system,
raised $15 million in venture funding to expand operations.
Industry pioneer Bing Gordon joined its board.  The funding was led by Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers,
where Gordon is a partner, with participation from Mayfield
Fund,  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) , Shasta Ventures and Occam Partners, Santa
Monica, California-based Ouya said today in a statement.  The Ouya console competes with  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s PlayStation,
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Xbox and Nintendo Co.’s Wii U for sales in a
home console market that has shrunk as consumers shift to
digital downloads and games on mobile devices. U.S. retail sales
of game hardware, software and accessories fell 22 percent last
year to $13.3 billion, according to NPD Group.  Founder Julie Uhrman is betting the Ouya player will lure
independent developers back to creating games for home use from
tablets and smartphones, an area they flocked to in recent
years. The company plans to use some of its funding to seed
money to developers, who must offer a free-to-play component for
each title, she said in an interview.  “We want to work with as many as we can to bring their
innovative content back to the television and, hopefully, to
Ouya,” Uhrman said.  Gordon, a former executive at  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA) , will
advise the company as it seeks to attract more developers,
develop additional products and executes at retail, according to
the statement.  Ouya, based in Santa Monica,  California , raised $8.6
million in July through Kickstarter.com, a Web-based funding
service, becoming one of the site’s biggest projects.  The cube-shaped console comes with one controller, and can
be played with as many as four at once, according to the
company. It’s uses Nvidia’s Tegra processor, which is based on
 ARM Holdings Plc (ARM)  designs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  