-- How Detroit’s ‘Hive Mind’ Created U.S. Auto Industry
-- B y   R i c h a r d   S n o w
-- 2013-05-09T16:22:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/how-detroit-s-hive-mind-created-u-s-auto-industry.html
Corporate jargon has now given us the
term “hive mind,” which expresses the belief that a group of
individuals working in proximity can achieve a sort of critical
mass that will generate more and better ideas than an individual
working alone could. Many businesses in Silicon Valley seek to
foster this creative environment.  This isn’t a new idea. There have been plenty of such
places in U.S. history, including the Jet Propulsion Laboratory,
in  Pasadena ,  California , and the Manhattan Project, in Los
Alamos,  New Mexico . Perhaps the best example, however, was
Detroit, where Henry  Ford (F)  was at the center of a hive mind that
encompassed an entire city in the last years of the 19th century
and remade America in the first years of the 20th.  By 1900, about 200,000 people lived in Detroit, which was
already a thriving manufacturing hub. There was standing timber
nearby, and to the north of the city, iron mines fed an industry
that turned out 150,000 stoves a year. It had companies that
made parts for lake steamers, as well as builders of railroad
carriages, seats and wheels -- all enterprises that could easily
be converted to automotive purposes. One prosperous maker of
plumbing fixtures, for instance, was named David Buick.  Machine Shops  By the early 1890s, Ford knew he wanted to build an
automobile, even though he had never seen one. As a young man,
he used the city’s machine shops as his college, moving from one
to another, mastering the art of cutting and fitting metal,
learning how steam worked, teaching himself the mysteries of
gasoline.  As he struggled to build his first car, Ford drew on the
knowledge of the hive. Years later, he said, “I drove the first
car ever seen on the streets of Detroit.” This was a fib: The
first car had been built by a friend of his, a generous
enthusiast and inventor named  Charles King . When Ford was
stumped on how to make valves for his engine, King came by with
some steam valves he had been working on, and told Ford that
with a little machining they should do the job -- and they did.  Ford made his maiden voyage in his first car not long
after, in June 1896. It was a success, and in the first decade
of the century hundreds of fledgling automobile companies came
into being, all pollinating one another. But now Ford stood a
little apart from the hive. He kept his inventing so close to
his chest that when he asked a close friend to turn a crankshaft
for him in his metal shop, the man didn’t learn until years
later that it was intended for an automobile.  But Ford couldn’t help but be a pollinator, too. When he
launched Ford Motor Co., he got virtually his entire car from
the Dodge brothers, who owned the finest machine shop in
 Detroit . Eventually, he was drawing on them so heavily that they
feared for their company if he ever chose another supplier, and
they set out to build a successful car of their own.  Ford inadvertently added to the hive when, having put his
first company into bankruptcy, he managed to get another one
going. But this time his wary investors had a fallback in the
person of Henry Leland, the finest machinist in America. Ford
had all but finished his prototype when he decided he didn’t
like Leland peering over his shoulder. He quit, taking his name
with him.  Leland looked over the prototype and decided to replace
Ford’s engine with one of his own. He supplied a new name, too:
 Cadillac. (GM)   Steam Propulsion  The Cadillac was, and remains, a success. But when it was
born, in 1902, the hive still had a great deal to figure out,
including such fundamental issues as what should make a car go.
Many inventors favored steam, the king of motive power for
almost a century; others put their faith in electricity. Scores
of different steam and electric cars hissed or hummed about the
countryside until it became clear that such power made
automobiles too heavy for road use (nowadays, of course, the
hive is again swarming after the elusive electric car).  Ford’s most significant contribution to the hive (beyond
his world-changing Model T of 1908) was his courage in battling
an extraordinary lawsuit. In 1879, George Selden, a Rochester
inventor, had dreamed up the idea of a carriage propelled by the
internal combustion engine. The motor, Selden said, would be
connected to the wheels (though he didn’t say how) and the
machine would carry people. He filed for a patent on this fancy,
but  patent law  at that time gave an inventor 17 years to fiddle
with a submission before the patent finally took effect. Selden
fiddled for the whole 17 years and then, with the American car
becoming a reality, finalized his basically unchanged claim and,
astonishingly, got a patent on the idea of an automobile.  No car, Selden said, could be built in, or imported to, the
U.S. without a payment to him. And he began to sue. Some of the
automakers held out, but patent lawsuits were then the most
expensive and time-consuming form of litigation. Finally, in
1909, a court decided in Selden’s favor. Ford appealed and,
after a fight that lasted seven years, he won. This set the U.S.
automotive industry free.  It also empowered the Detroit hive because the bruising
battle left all carmakers eager to avoid a similar experience.
Instead of guarding their patents, the big carmakers -- even
Ford -- established a system of sharing them. This added to the
vigor of an already-thriving industry, and rapid advances in
transmissions, engine design and styling followed as the
companies adopted and improved one another’s technology.  Cheaper, more dependable vehicles proliferated and began to
remake the American landscape and society. That openness
survives, and the bees of Detroit continue their cross-pollinating on into a new century.  ( Richard Snow  was editor-in-chief of American Heritage
magazine. He is the author of several books, including “I
Invented the Modern Age: The Rise of  Henry Ford ,” which will be
published by Scribner on May 14. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post:
Richard Snow at  RSnow@forbes.com   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  