-- How Many More ‘Red Lines’ Must Syria Cross?
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2013-05-09T18:46:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/how-many-more-red-lines-must-syria-cross-.html
So many red lines, so little time.  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  is arguing,
inferentially, that the regime in  Syria  has indeed crossed
President  Barack Obama ’s “red line” by deploying chemical
weapons against civilians.  “There is a growing body of limited but persuasive
information that the regime has used and continues to use
chemical weapons, including sarin, and the room for doubt about
this continues to diminish,”  Cameron said .  In the post- Iraq  era, “limited but persuasive information”
isn’t enough to trigger whatever action Obama is -- or was --
contemplating against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s regime,
but it seems as if the administration won’t be able to wish away
such evidence forever. (So far, the U.K.,  France ,  Israel  and the
Pentagon have  expressed  their suspicions that Assad did, in
fact, use chemical weapons.) So, to be charitable, let’s say
that what we’ve been seeing this week from the Obama
administration is not torpor and moral disassociation, but
caution.  Even so, the focus on this particular red line has obscured
the many other red lines Assad has crossed -- not necessarily
those articulated by the president, or by other leaders, but red
lines recognized by civilized people everywhere. I’m one of
those people who are preoccupied with the effects of chemical
weapons, and the moral consequences of using them (repeated
visits to Halabja, the Kurdish town in Iraq gassed by  Saddam Hussein , will do that to you). And while I’m the first to
acknowledge the ghastly nature of sarin, it’s important to
remember that it isn’t the only horrible weapon in Assad’s
arsenal.  ‘Unreal Scene’  For instance, a red line against raping girls was crossed
many months ago. A  Human Rights Watch report  tells what happened
in the town of Karm al-Zeitoun when government agents visited
one apartment building. According to an eyewitness the group
calls Selma, pro-Assad forces knocked on a neighbor’s door:  “One of them said, ‘Open or we will shoot.’ She did not
open the door and they shot at it,” Selma said. When the men
entered, the neighbor told them, “I will kiss your feet but
don’t come near us.” Selma could hear a girl fighting with one
of them. “He was saying, ’Oh, you are going to scratch me too?’
She pushed him and he shot her in the head. She was the oldest.
20 years old.”  Selma continued: “They grabbed the youngest. She was 12.
You could hear her say, ’Don’t take my clothes off.’ The mother
said, ‘This girl is 12.’” When Selma saw the girl later, “her
sweater was torn, all the way down the front.” The men had raped
her and two other girls, ages 16 and 18. “I waited, hiding after
they left,” Selma said. “The scene on the inside was unreal. The
12 year old was lying on the ground, blood to her knees. I told
them to get up, that this happened against their will. More than
one person had raped the 12 year old. I heard them from my
hiding place, saying, ’Come on, enough, my turn.’ She was torn
the length of a forefinger.”  The Assad regime has also crossed a red line against the
raping of boys. This is from testimony published in that same
report, from a man the authors call Samih: “There were 15 and
16-year-old kids in the cell with us, six or seven of them with
their fingernails pulled, their faces beaten. They treat the
kids even worse than the adults. There is torture, but there is
also rape for the boys. We would see them when the guards
brought them back into the cell. It’s indescribable. You can’t
talk about it. One boy came into the cell bleeding from behind.
He couldn’t walk. It was something they just did to the boys. We
would cry for them.”  Scuds, Knives  The Assad regime crossed another red line when it chose to
launch Scud missiles against its own civilians. One example: 20
people  were killed  in March when a Scud landed in the northern
town of Hretaan. Yet another red line was crossed when the
regime decided to use the Syrian  Air Force  to  target bread lines
and hospitals . Last August,  Amnesty International   reported  that
a 13-year-old girl named Kifa’ Samra and her 11-year-old
brother, Zakarya, were killed while lining up for bread in
Aleppo.  Here’s another red line the regime has crossed: the one
that is meant to delineate and stigmatize ethnic cleansing. Pro-government militias, aided by the Iranian-sponsored terrorist
group Hezbollah, have been  expelling Sunnis  from the Alawite
regions of Syria -- Assad is a member of the Alawite minority --
possibly in anticipation of building an Alawite stronghold in
case the government loses control of Damascus. Last week, the
Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights   reported  that pro-government
forces had killed dozens in the mostly Sunni town of al-Bayda.
Many of the victims were killed with knives.  I could go on, but I’ll end this litany here, and note that
my point is only that the use of sarin gas represents a violated
red line mainly because the president said it would. The U.S.
should lead a campaign of more active measures against the Assad
regime (a no-fly zone imposed over safe havens carved from
Syrian territory, for instance, could save lives) not only
because the Syrian government may be using chemical weapons, but
because its tactics -- industrial-scale murder, ethnic cleansing
and mass rape -- make its continued rule an affront to
civilization.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 