-- Pakistani Prisoner Dies After Retaliatory India Jail Attack
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-05-09T04:29:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/pakistani-prisoner-dies-after-retaliatory-india-jail-attack.html
A Pakistani prisoner beaten in an
Indian jail died from his injuries in an alleged retaliatory
attack that occurred a day after a convicted Indian spy was
killed from head injuries sustained in a Lahore prison.  Sanaullah Haq, who was serving a life sentence for
terrorism offences, died at about 7 a.m. this morning, Syed
Akbaruddin, a spokesman for  India ’s Ministry of External
Affairs, said in a phone interview. Haq was attacked in a jail
in the disputed region of Jammu and Kashmir on May 3.  The attacks on prisoners are the latest to strain relations
between the two neighbors that were engaged in some of their
most serious cross-border skirmishes in almost a decade this
year. The fighting damaged efforts to repair ties shattered by
the 2008 Mumbai terrorist strike after a bid to improve trade
and ease travel curbs.  The assault was “obvious retaliation” for the murder of
the Indian prisoner, Pakistan’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs said
last week. Pakistan called for the perpetrators of the attack on
Haq to be punished and for India to ensure the safety and
security of all Pakistani prisoners.  A case of assault has been registered against an Indian
serviceman, the Times of India reported last week, without
saying where it got the information.  Sarabjit Singh, the Indian convicted of spying, sustained
several injuries, including a fractured skull, when attacked by
prisoners in Lahore’s Kot Lakhpat prison on April 26. He died on
May 2.  Singh was arrested in 1990 and later found guilty of spying
and involvement in deadly bomb blasts in Pakistani cities. His
family has said the man hails from a border village in the
northern Indian state of Punjab and had crossed the countries’
frontier by mistake.  India considers Singh innocent of his alleged crimes and
the prime minister brought up his case with the Pakistani
government as far back as 2005, Akbaruddin, told reporters in
New Delhi yesterday. There are 535 Indian prisoners in
 Pakistan ’s jails and 273 Pakistanis in Indian custody, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  