-- Pakistan Stocks Post Record Jump on Profits Ahead of Vote
-- B y   F a s e e h   M a n g i   a n d   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-05-10T12:06:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/pakistan-stocks-post-record-jump-on-profits-ahead-of-vote.html
Pakistani  stocks  are extending their
biggest-ever rally as the fastest earnings  growth  in  Asia  and
prospects for a successful transfer of power between civilian
governments help fuel demand from international investors.  The  KSE 100 Index (KSE100)  has surged 18 percent this year, as
higher commodity prices and  consumer spending  boosted earnings
from Lucky Cement Ltd. to  Pakistan  Petroleum Ltd. Record profit
has lured $190 million of stock purchases from overseas
investors since Dec. 31, the most since the same period in 2010,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Earnings of companies in the
benchmark gauge rose 43 percent in the past 12 months, the
largest increase among 17 Asian equity indexes, the data show.  Rising  profits  and the slowest inflation since at least
2009 have overshadowed violence before tomorrow’s elections,
which mark the first time in Pakistan’s history that a civilian
government has completed a full five-year term. Earnings will
continue to climb and spur more gains in the $50 billion equity
market, said Andrew Brudenell, a London-based  fund manager  at
HSBC Global Asset Management Ltd.  “I still see upside and am a buyer as although the market
has performed well, the companies have grown earnings strongly
too and there is more growth to come,” Brudenell said in an e-mail interview May 9. “We are encouraged by the country
reaching the milestone of a civilian party completing a full
term in office for the first time.”  Brudenell’s  HSBC Frontier Markets Fund (HSFAX)  has returned 15
percent in 2013, beating 97 percent of peers tracked by
Bloomberg.  Coalition Government  At least 118 people have been killed and 494 injured in
election-related violence. Pakistan has been ruled by the army
for half its history since partition from  India  in 1947, with
civilian governments ousted by generals following allegations of
corruption and misrule.  The coalition government led by President Asif Ali Zardari’s  Pakistan Peoples Party  is the first elected
administration to complete its five-year term and prepare to
transfer power through a vote.  “Like everyone, we are hopeful for a peaceful and
democratic election process resulting in a government that can
take the country forward economically,” HSBC Global’s Brudenell
said.  Recent opinion polls indicate no party will get more than
50 percent of the total in the national parliamentary ballot. In
a Gallup Pakistan survey in March, two-time Prime Minister  Nawaz Sharif ’s Muslim League received 37 percent support, double that
of Zardari’s Peoples Party and cricket icon  Imran Khan ’s
Tehreek-e-Insaf group.  Market Triggers  The KSE 100 Index rose 1.3 percent to 19,916.27 at the
close, the most in Asia excluding  Japan . The gauge is forecast
to reach 21,000 by the end of the year, according to Nihal Cassim, chief executive officer of Safeway Fund Ltd., whose
Safeway Mutual Fund has beaten peers by an average 16 percentage
points in 2013.  “Earnings are relevant and rank above the political
situation in terms of triggers” for the market, Cassim said in
an April 25 interview in Karachi.  This year’s rally has driven the KSE 100 to trade at 7.8
times estimated earnings, the most expensive level in 22 months,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The last time the gauge
traded at this level -- in June 29, 2011 -- the measure slumped
15 percent in two months. The current valuation is still 45
percent below the MSCI Asia-Pacific Index’s 14.2 multiple.  ‘Risk Factor  While there is unlikely to be a drop in the index, the
formation of a weak government would be a “risk factor,” Arif Habib, chairman of Arif Habib Corp., which operates stockbroking
and financial services units, said in an interview in Karachi
May 9. He expects the KSE 100 to rise to 22,000 by year-end.  KSE 100 profits are  projected  to rise 17 percent this year,
compared with a 16 percent gain for the MSCI Asia Pacific Index,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Lucky Cement, Pakistan’s biggest exporter of the building
material, posted a 59 percent jump in third-quarter net income,
according to an exchange filing last month. Pakistan Petroleum’s
profit in the year to June 2012 rose 30 percent from the year
earlier to a record, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Shares of the two Karachi-based companies have gained at least
16 percent this year.  ‘Phenomenal’ Earnings  “Corporate earnings have been phenomenal,” Mir  Muhammad
Ali , chief executive officer of UBL Fund Managers Ltd., an  asset
management company  which manages 35 billion rupees ($356
million), said in Karachi May 2. “The stock market should give
a return of at least 20 percent in the next two to three
years.”  Consumer companies are benefiting from purchases by the
nation’s 190 million people, while oil and gas stocks are
gaining from higher commodity prices, said Mir.  Consumer spending in Pakistan has increased at a 26 percent
average pace the past three years, compared with 7.7 percent for
Asia, according to data compiled by Euromonitor International, a
consumer research firm. Oil on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange
has advanced about 5 percent this year.  Stocks have also risen on optimism lower borrowing costs
will help bolster an economy that grew 3.7 percent in the 12
months through June 2012, less than the government’s 4.2 percent
goal.  The nation’s central bank left the discount rate at 9.5
percent last month, the lowest level in five years, as consumer
prices rose 6.57 percent in March, the slowest pace since
Bloomberg started tracking the data in 2009.  “Foreign inflows will definitely continue,” UBL’s Mir
said. “Once the new government is installed, there will be less
uncertainty, and we will see investments coming in from all over
the place.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Faseeh Mangi in Karachi at 
 fmangi@bloomberg.net ;
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  