-- Pennsylvania Capital’s Receiver Plans Parking Deal for Debt
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-05-09T20:19:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/pennsylvania-capital-s-receiver-plans-parking-deal-to-pay-debt.html
The receiver appointed by Pennsylvania
to mend Harrisburg’s finances plans to submit a proposal this
month to lease the capital city’s parking system to pay
creditors and restore solvency.  The deal, which relies on tax-exempt financing, is key to
the recovery plan from William B. Lynch. He said in a telephone
interview that he plans to ask a state judge to approve his
blueprint for solving the $350 million debt burden of the
community of 50,000. Pennsylvania took over the city’s fiscal
affairs in 2011 after local officials failed to solve the debt
crisis.  Turning over municipal parking systems to private operators
has sparked opposition in cities such as Cincinnati,  Ohio , which
is fighting a court order that blocked a lease with partners
including Guggenheim Partners LLC, the prospective underwriter
of the Harrisburg deal.  “An absolutely essential part of this is that we create an
opportunity for the city to have some kind of a chance at a
stable, predictable financial future,” Lynch said from
Harrisburg. “We’re not going to conclude this without making it
possible for the city to achieve this future.”  Under the proposal, the Pennsylvania Economic Development
Financing Authority, a state financing program, would take over
garages and lots in a long-term lease from the Harrisburg
Parking Authority, the municipal agency that owns them.  Parking Manager  Chicago-based  Standard Parking Corp. (STAN)  would run the city’s
8,991 spaces, according to Lynch. AEW Capital Management LP, a
Boston-based real-estate management company, would manage the
properties, and both would receive fixed fees, Lynch said.  The state financing authority would sell tax-exempt bonds
against the revenue, underwritten by Guggenheim. Lynch said
proceeds of the issue would retire about $110 million in parking
debt and pay city creditors -- surrounding Dauphin County and
bond insurer Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp., a unit of
Hamilton, Bermuda-based  Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO)   “Asset sales will be an important component of the city’s
recovery plan,” Ashweeta Durani, an Assured spokeswoman, said
in an e-mail. The company anticipates “a recovery plan that
both addresses the city’s fiscal needs and respects the rights
of creditors.”  Helping Retirees  In addition, a fund would be established for retiree health
benefits for city workers, Lynch said. The city’s unfunded
liability for other post-employment benefits was $177.8 million
as of 2010, according to an audit released in December. He is
also working on a multiyear contract with the state to pay for
parking spots for its employees.  Lynch said the Harrisburg proposal is “far better” than a
deal in  Chicago , whose 75-year, $1.15 billion parking lease with
a Morgan Stanley-led partnership may have cost the city $9.58
billion through 2084, according to a 2011 document filed by
Chicago Parking Meters LLP.  Harrisburg will get more money from the operations by
having a share of the profits, Lynch said.  Lynch declined to give an estimated value of the system,
and said negotiations continue.  Scarce Parking  Demand for the parking debt has risen this year. Harrisburg
Parking Authority bonds due in May 2026 traded May 6 at an
average yield of 5.77 percent, or 3.68 percentage points over
benchmark debt, data compiled by Bloomberg show. On Jan. 7, the
obligations traded at a yield of 6.5 percent, for a spread of
4.35 percentage points.  The city owes about $350 million -- nearly seven times its
general-fund budget -- on fees and debt tied to a project to
overhaul and expand a waste-to-energy plant that doesn’t
generate enough to cover the burden. The county and insurer made
the payments the city skipped.  Lynch is also working on a deal to sell the incinerator to
Lancaster County Solid Waste Management Authority that would
retire debt and pay creditors.  Lynch said his plan would also include savings from union
contracts.  “It’s a pretty good solution, what we proposed for
everybody, or at least it’s as good as it’s going to get,”
Lynch said. “It’s going to take some cooperation and goodwill
from a lot of people.”  Queen City  Municipal parking deals have numbered just one to two a
year since 2010, said David Cummins, managing director of the
Parking Solutions unit of  Xerox Corp. (XRX)  in  Washington . Xerox
provides parking services in 30 U.S. cities, including
Indianapolis, and about 100 municipalities in the U.K.  Cummins, who isn’t involved in Harrisburg, said a model in
which ownership of the asset remains public and in which the
city receives profits -- as is being proposed in Harrisburg --
“would have a lot of appeal to cities.”  Using tax-exempt financing for parking transactions was a
first when proposed for Cincinnati’s lease of its parking system
to the Port of Greater Cincinnati Development Authority, Cummins
said. Guggenheim would underwrite the sale of tax-free debt
issued by the Cincinnati agency, and Xerox would operate the
parking system.  In March, an Ohio judge ruled the city’s plan must be put
to a referendum, a decision being appealed by municipal
officials.  Thomas Mulligan, who works in  New York  for Sitrick & Co.
and is a spokesman for Guggenheim, declined to comment.
Guggenheim has headquarters in Chicago and New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  