-- Peru Keeps 4.25% Rate on CPI Outlook Amid Near Potential Growth
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2013-05-10T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/peru-likely-to-keep-4-25-rate-as-inflation-stays-within-target.html
Peru ’s central bank kept borrowing
costs unchanged for a 24th straight month as policy makers
expect inflation to converge to the mid-point of their target
amid near-potential economic growth.  The five-member board, led by bank President Julio Velarde,
yesterday maintained the  overnight rate  at 4.25 percent,
matching the forecast of all 15 economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg.  “The decision was due to inflation remaining within the
target range in a context of economic growth near its
potential,” policy makers  said , according to their statement
posted on the central bank’s website. Policy makers said they
expect “a convergence of inflation toward the middle of the
target range due to improved food supply.”  The central bank probably will keep  interest rates 
unchanged for the rest of 2013, preferring to use reserve
requirements to curb demand for credit without strengthening
Peru’s sol, said Juan Carlos Odar, a senior analyst at Banco de
Credito del Peru in  Lima . Economists surveyed by Bloomberg
forecast that the economy will expand 6.15 percent in 2013,
after growing 6.3 percent last year.  After last month’s meeting, policy makers  said  they had
kept the overnight rate unchanged because of “the fact that
inflation is within the target range in a context of economic
growth close its potential.”  Mining, Investment  Consumer prices rose 0.25 percent last month after a 0.91
percent jump in March, the biggest in five years. The annual
pace slowed to 2.31 percent from 2.59 percent. The central bank
targets inflation in a range of 1 percent to 3 percent.  Slowing inflation comes at the same time that lower metal
prices threaten to damp investment in the  mining industry ,
further easing pressure to raise rates.  Reduced Chinese demand for copper, Peru’s top export,
fueled the sol’s biggest quarterly decline since 2008 in the
first three months of the year and made the country’s stock
market the world’s third-worst performer. Peru is the world’s
third-largest producer of copper and zinc, and is the sixth-largest gold producer. Commodities account for about 75 percent
of exports.  Copper prices are down 8.5 percent this year while gold has
retreated 13.2 percent. After appreciating in each of the last
four years, the sol has declined 1.9 percent against the  U.S.
dollar  in 2013, the eighth-worst performance among 24 emerging
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg worldwide.  ‘Growth Trend’  Even as metal prices decline, economists in the central
bank’s latest survey forecast that gross domestic product will
expand 6.3 percent this year and 6.4 percent in 2014.  “There was an overreaction in the markets” to the decline
in commodity prices, said  Hugo Perea , chief economist at  BBVA
Banco Continental , by phone from Lima. “Business confidence is
going to be a key support for growth. We don’t see any change in
the underlying growth trend.”  Four fewer working days in the first quarter compared with
the same period a year ago are masking a stable trend in growth,
said Perea. GDP will grow almost 6 percent in the first half of
2013, Finance Minister Miguel Castilla told Congress May 3.  The yield on Peru’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-denominated
bond due August 2020 has fallen five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 3.86 percent this year. The  Lima General
Index (IGBVL)  is down 13.7 percent in local currency terms.  Weakness in the sol will ease pressure on the central bank
to take additional measures to cool the currency after a surge
in inflows in 2012 led policy makers to increase dollar  reserve
requirements  this year.  Tighter dollar supply is crimping credit growth, which
slowed to 14.3 percent in March, the slowest since 2010,
according to the central bank’s website. Banco Central de
Reserva del Peru trimmed reserve requirements effective May 1 to
encourage long term financing in soles.  Five increases in reserve requirements in soles in the past
two years have allowed the central bank to leave rates
unchanged.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  