-- Plosser Says He Would Favor Tapering QE at June FOMC Meeting
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-05-09T19:53:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/plosser-says-he-would-favor-tapering-qe-at-june-fomc-meeting.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
President  Charles Plosser  said unemployment will probably fall
to 7 percent at the end of 2013 and he would favor reducing the
Fed’s $85 billion monthly pace of bond purchases next month.  “I would like to see us begin to scale this thing back
beginning even as early as the next meeting” of the  Federal
Open Market Committee , Plosser said to reporters after a speech
today in New York. The committee is scheduled to meet June
18-19. Plosser doesn’t vote on policy this year.  Plosser’s remarks highlight a debate within the FOMC on
whether to expand or curb a pace of  bond purchases  that has
pumped up the central bank’s balance sheet to $3.32 trillion. At
their April 30-May 1 meeting, policy makers said they’re
prepared to increase bond buying in response to changes in the
labor market or inflation.  Plosser, who didn’t support the start last September of a
third round of bond purchases, is more optimistic about growth
than some of his colleagues. He expects the economy to expand by
3 percent this year and next, with the  unemployment rate 
declining to around 6.5 percent by the end of 2014, he said.  In March, most policy makers forecast growth of 2.3 percent
to 2.8 percent this year, with a jobless rate at year end of 7.3
percent to 7.5 percent. Plosser’s forecasts place him as one of
the three most optimistic policy makers on growth and
unemployment for 2013.  The costs of bond buying exceed the gains, Plosser said.
The purchases are “risky” and offer “pretty meager”
benefits, he said.  Further Stimulus  If the economy weakened and the central bank needed to
provide further stimulus, policy makers will be “kind of
limited” in their options, Plosser said.  While the unemployment rate has moved toward the Fed’s goal
of 5.2 percent to 6 percent during the past year, inflation has
fallen further from the Fed’s long-run target of 2 percent.
Inflation dropped to 1 percent from a year earlier in March, the
slowest since 2009, according to the Fed’s preferred inflation
gauge.  Still, inflation expectations look “pretty well-anchored,” Plosser said.  “We have to defend our inflation target both on the upside
and the downside,” Plosser said. “As long as inflation
expectations remain well-anchored then I’m reasonably
comfortable.”  Plosser, 64, became president of the Philadelphia Fed in
August 2006. He was previously dean of the business school at
the University of Rochester in  New York  state. The Philadelphia
reserve bank will next have a vote on policy decisions in 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  