-- Priceline Profit Tops Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-05-10T17:07:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/priceline-s-profit-forecast-falls-short-of-analysts-projections.html
Priceline.com Inc. (PCLN) , the largest U.S.
online-travel agent by market value, rose after first-quarter
profit topped analysts’ estimates as travelers gravitated to the
site to book hotel rooms. Shares rose the most in 10 weeks.  Profit, excluding some items, rose to $5.76 a share from
$4.28 a year earlier, the Norwalk, Connecticut-based company
said in a statement yesterday. Analysts on average had projected
a profit of $5.27, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Even as a global expansion leaves the company vulnerable to
economic weakness in some regions, Priceline is benefiting as
its Amsterdam-based Booking.com signs up more international
hotels, according to Naved Khan, an analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald
& Co.  Priceline “continues to gain share in global hotel
bookings,” Khan wrote in a research report.  Priceline increased 3.6 percent to $764.18 at 12:18 a.m. in
 New York , and earlier touched $769.67 for the biggest intraday
gain since Feb. 27. The shares had climbed 19 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a 14 percent advance for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  First-quarter revenue jumped 26 percent to $1.3 billion,
beating the average projection by analysts for $1.28 billion.  International Bookings  International bookings at Priceline climbed 43 percent to
$7.78 billion in the quarter, accounting for 85 percent of total
bookings. In addition to Booking.com, Priceline owns Bangkok-based Agoda.com, giving the company access to travelers in  Asia .  Even as bookings gained, Chief Executive Officer Jeffery Boyd expressed caution about the company’s growth potential.  “We continue to see economic uncertainty in certain
regions, and competition in the online travel sector remains
intense,” Boyd said in the statement.  Priceline’s profit forecast for the current quarter of
$8.87 to $9.45 a share lags the $9.59 average analysts’
estimate.  “While management’s second-quarter outlook is somewhat
light, we do not view it as a reason to be concerned, given that
it reflects a cautious view in a risky macro environment,” Khan
said.  Priceline increased first-quarter online advertising
spending 45 percent to $403.2 million. The majority of its
spending is on Google Inc.’s search engine.  Economic Headwinds  Net income for the first quarter rose 34 percent to $244.3
million, or $4.76 a share, from $182 million, or $3.54, a share,
a year earlier.  “The guidance is just them being conservative,” said
Edward Woo, an analyst at Ascendiant Capital Group LLC in
 Irvine ,  California , who recommends buying the shares. “They had
generally OK to positive earnings. I wouldn’t be too concerned,
even though the company said there are additional economic
headwinds.”  The company said yesterday its acquisition of hotel-search
engine  Kayak Software Corp. (KYAK)  has cleared regulatory hurdles and
will close on May 21, adding profitable search tools to its
services that help consumers book flights and hotels online.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  