-- Private-Equity Vultures Fattened by Abenomics Cash: Japan Credit
-- B y   E m i   U r a b e
-- 2013-05-09T02:56:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/private-equity-vultures-fattened-by-abenomics-cash-japan-credit.html
Japan ’s private-equity funds, once
disparaged as vultures, are attracting investments from banks
flush with cash from Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s stimulus.  New Horizon Capital Co.  is considering raising more money
and extending a fundraising deadline because of demand from
lenders, Chief Executive Officer Yasushi Ando said. Integral
Corp. plans a second fund by the end of August. Buyout funds
raised 92 billion yen ($930 million) last year in Japan, the
most in three years and a 53 percent jump from 2011, according
to data from  Japan Buy-Out Research Institute Corp.   Lenders are responding to record  excess cash  and the
highest  volatility  in sovereign bonds in a decade by returning
to investments considered too risky after the 2008 collapse of
 Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc. The Tokyo High Court in 2007
called Steel Partners Ltd. an “abusive acquirer,” after a
series of takeover bids were thwarted by targets using so-called
poison pills or white-knight tie ups. Ando said his Tokyo-based
fund is fighting that stigma by seeking  consensus  on
restructuring proposals from a target’s managers.  “Japanese financial institutions are seeking alternative
investments because they can no longer rely on income from
sovereign debt,” said Yasuo Sugeno, a senior researcher at
Daiwa Institute of Research in Tokyo. “The megabanks, which
were the first to turn to private equity, are now being followed
by regional banks and trusts.”  Unprecedented Easing  The  Bank of Japan  decided on April 4 to double monthly bond
buying to 7.5 trillion yen and lengthened the average maturity
of the purchases by twofold to about seven years. The
announcement sent Japan’s benchmark 10-year bond yield to a
record low of 0.315 percent the following day. The rate surged
to almost double that level in the same session and was down 1/2
basis point at 0.585 percent as of 11:55 a.m. in  Tokyo  today.  Customer deposits held by Japanese lenders exceeded loans
by 176.3 trillion yen in March, central bank data show. The
 average interest rate  on long-term yen loans from the country’s
banks fell to 0.942 percent in February, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The financing for buyout funds in Japan last year was 16
percent of the record 560.8 billion yen in 2006, according to
Japan Buy-Out Research Institute numbers dating back to 1997.
The funds invested 498.9 billion yen in 2012, compared with
1.245 trillion yen in 2008, the busiest year on record, the data
show.  Investor Demand  New Horizon Capital, which started operations in 2006, is
considering extending plans for its second fund by three months
from the end of June to meet increasing demand from investors
including Shinginko Tokyo Ltd. and Kyoto Shinkin Bank, Ando
said. The company is considering increasing the fund amount to
20 billion yen from 15 billion yen, he said.  “With funds there is a chance of losing the entire
principal, so we have set a limit on the amount and will not
invest beyond that,” said Nobuhito Fukuda, the manager of the
corporate planning department at Shinginko Tokyo. “We have also
made commitments to other funds and are examining new
opportunities case-by-case.”  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets, Hokuriku Electric
Power Co. hired Mizuho Financial Group Inc., Nomura Holdings
Inc. and SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. for a 20 billion yen sale of
eight-year bonds this month, according to a statement from
Mizuho. The utility last sold debt in February raising 20
billion yen of 1.158 percent 10-year notes, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Bond Returns  Japan’s corporate bonds have returned 0.85 percent this
year, versus a 1.87 percent increase for the nation’s sovereign
notes, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.
Company debt worldwide has gained 1.98 percent.  The yen traded at 98.87 per dollar at 11:55 a.m. in Tokyo
today, after weakening to a four-year low of 99.95 last month.
The currency has plunged more than 12 percent against the
greenback this year, the most among the 10 developed-market
currencies tracked by the Bloomberg Correlation Weighted
Indexes.  Japan’s benchmark 10-year securities yielded 118 basis
points less than similar-maturity  U.S. Treasuries , compared with
98 a year earlier, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The cost to insure Japan’s sovereign notes for five years
against non-payment was at 60 basis points yesterday, down from
82 basis points at the start of the year, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the private market. A drop in the
contracts signals improving perceptions of creditworthiness.  Bull-Dog Sauce  In June 2007, New York-based Steel Partners, run by
investor Warren Lichtenstein, made a takeover bid for  Bull-Dog
Sauce Co.  The Tokyo-based condiments maker’s board rejected the
offer, allowing all of its other shareholders to convert
warrants into common shares, diluting Steel’s stake to less than
3 percent from 10.15 percent. Steel’s subsequent legal challenge
was struck down by the Tokyo High Court, which called the firm
an “abusive acquirer” in its ruling.  In 2008,  shareholders  led by Steel ousted the management of
 Aderans Holdings Co. (8170) , a Tokyo-based wigmaker. It was the first
success in the fund’s quest to force changes at Japanese
companies.  Abe’s plan to revive the world’s third-largest economy has
helped push Japanese stocks to levels unseen since before
Lehman’s collapse. The  Topix index  of Japanese shares has
climbed 62 percent since Abe’s Nov. 15 call for “unlimited”
monetary stimulus.  Integral’s Fund  Integral, a Japanese private equity firm established in
2007, plans to raise 30 billion yen for a second fund by the end
of August as equities surge, a partner and representative
director Nobuo Sayama said in an April 9 interview. The fund
will invest in seven to 10 companies over the next five years
and has already received about 11 billion yen from at least one
national bank, several regional lenders and pension funds,
Sayama said.  Its first fund was started in September 2008, the month
Lehman Brothers collapsed, and made investments in six
companies, including buying TYO Inc. shares in December 2010 at
49 yen, according to Sayama. The advertisement company’s stock
closed at 200 yen yesterday.  The average  interest rate  on long-term loans from Japan’s
six so-called  city banks , which include Mitsubishi UFJ Financial
Group Inc., Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. and Mizuho,
dropped below 1 percent for the first time in January and was
1.01 percent in February, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The rate for  regional banks  was 1.097 percent, after
matching a record low of 1.075 percent in December, the data
show.  “The demand is unlike anything we’ve experienced before,
with customers coming to us in search of opportunities,” Ando
of New Horizon Capital said. “There is a time lag to the actual
investment, which will probably take place in the July to
September period.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emi Urabe in Tokyo at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  