-- Qatar’s Katara in Talks to Buy Hotels in London and Rome
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-05-09T10:12:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/qatar-s-katara-in-talks-to-buy-hotels-in-london-and-rome.html
Katara Hospitality is in talks to buy
“iconic” hotels in  London  and  Rome  as the unit of Qatar’s
sovereign-wealth fund seeks to more than double its properties
by 2030, said Chief Operating Officer Christopher R.J. Knable.  Katara, which bought Le Royal Monceau in Paris in 2012,
will open the 16th-century Peninsula Paris this year after
renovations are complete, Knable said in an interview in Dubai.
He wouldn’t be more specific about the hotels the company may
buy.  Qatar, the world’s biggest exporter of liquefied natural
gas, has drawn on its energy wealth to snap up assets including
London’s Harrods department store and plans to open hotels in
London,  New York  and Paris bearing the department store’s brand.
It also invested in western  Europe ’s tallest building, the
Shard, and bought stakes in companies from Barclays Plc and
Credit Suisse Group AG to Tiffany & Co.  “We really want assets that are going to mean something in
their communities,” Knable said. “The Peninsula is going to be
the trophy of trophies when it opens. This is one of the special
properties that will fully exhibit the legacy of Paris.”  Katara plans to increase its holdings to 30 properties by
2016 and 60 by 2030 from 25 today, the company said. The
Excelsior Hotel Gallia in Milan will re-open this year after
refurbishment. The company is also redeveloping two properties
in  Switzerland , Burgenstock Resort on Lake Lucerne and Royal
Savoy in Lausanne, he said.  No Bargains  The recession in Europe hasn’t presented bargains for
Katara as historic hotels tend to be held for generations by
owners and don’t come onto the market very often, Knable said.
The company is “actively” looking for properties in New York
and  Los Angeles , he said.  “If you have a short-term view then, yes, the economies
are not great in Europe at the moment,” Knable said. “But we
are not a short-term player. We don’t have to go to a market
thinking we need to be a success right now. Our horizon is much
longer than everyone else’s.”  Katara will spend around $150 million renovating the
Raffles Hotel in  Singapore , Knable said. The 103-suite property
opened in 1887 is known for guests including authors  Ernest Hemingway  and W. Somerset Maugham and for the invention of the
Singapore Sling cocktail. Last year, the company said it bought
the hotel, which was designated a national monument when it
turned 100 years old, without saying how much it paid.  Domestic Spending  Katara Hospitality, which changed its name last year from
Qatar National Hotels, will spend “hundreds of millions of
dollars” renovating its hotels in Qatar, Knable said. The
company is preparing its properties for the World Cup soccer
tournament which the country will host in 2022.  Qatar plans to spend $140 billion on infrastructure by 2019
to diversify its sources of wealth away from energy and prepare
for the tournament, including the building of stadiums, hotels
and rail links.  Katara Hospitality, which is owned by Qatar Holding LLC,
has also signed agreements with the governments of Gambia and
Maldives to develop properties. Another property in Paris, The
Buddha Bar hotel, is set to open in mid-June. The 56-room
property is being developed out of the shell of an 18-century
building, he said.  “It really comes down to the opportunity and what looks
attractive in terms of location, history and returns,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  