-- Rackspace Falls Most Ever as Sales Miss Estimates
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-05-09T20:20:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/rackspace-tumbles-by-a-record-as-sales-trail-analysts-estimates.html
Rackspace Hosting Inc. (RAX) , a provider of
Web-based computing services, plunged the most ever after its
revenue result and forecast trailed analysts’ estimates.  Rackspace, which first sold shares to the public in August
2008, fell 25 percent to $39.36 at the close in  New York ,
extending the decline for this year to 47 percent.  Facing stepped up competition in the cloud-computing market
from  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , which has lowered prices in its web-services division seven times this year, Rackspace said sales in
the second quarter will be $369 million to $375 million. That
trailed the average analyst  estimate  of $384.4 million,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Chief Executive Officer
Lanham Napier said sales to business customers in the first
quarter were slower than forecast.  “It remains uncertain if RAX can stimulate enterprise
demand or if larger competitors are successful in integrating
such products in a broader offering, placing RAX at a long-term
disadvantage,” Gregory Miller, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity
Corp., wrote in a research note. “Competition remains intense
at all levels.”  Miller, who recommends  holding  the shares, cut his share-price target to $40 from $55. At least four analysts cut their
 ratings  on the stock, with at least three others reducing their
stock-price estimates.  Amazon Competition  Rackspace, based in  San Antonio , reported sales in the
first quarter of $362.2 million,  lagging  the $366.6 million
average analyst projection. Rackspace has been shifting its
focus from managing traditional data centers for other companies
to providing a full suite of software and services in the cloud.  Last year, Rackspace completed the introduction of
OpenStack, a newer product going head-to-head with Amazon.
Rackspace is also competing with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Azure
software, which along with other products surpassed $1 billion
in annual sales for the first time.  “Our first quarter results demonstrate that we are still
working through a product cycle transition,” Napier said in the
conference call. “This product-cycle transition will likely
continue for some time, given the large number of customers
still using the legacy public cloud platform.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  