-- Rambus Fined $250 Million in Hynix Patent Lawsuit
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-05-09T21:49:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/rambus-fined-250-million-in-hynix-patent-lawsuit.html
Rambus Inc. (RMBS)  was ordered by a federal
judge in San Jose,  California , to pay a $250 million sanction
for destroying documents in its litigation with  SK Hynix Inc. (000660)   The fine was issued yesterday by U.S. District Judge Ronald Whyte in the memory-chip technology patent-infringement case
that Rambus won in California seven years ago. The sanction will
be applied against whatever sum Rambus ultimately keeps of the
$349 million awarded it after a 2006 verdict finding that SK
Hynix infringed Rambus patents, Whyte ruled.  The sanction “applied as a credit against Rambus’s
judgment against SK Hynix recognizes that Rambus’s conduct was
inexcusable but not so egregious as to justify dismissal of its
infringement case,” Whyte wrote in his order yesterday. The
judge denied Hynix’s request for a new trial in the case.  The sanction “takes into account the royalty rates
negotiated and paid by SK Hynix’s primary competitors” during
the period of the alleged infringement, Whyte wrote.  Rambus’s cases against SK Hynix, and another related case
against  Micron Technology Inc. (MU) , are over the companies’ use of
interfaces that are part of dynamic random access memory that
acts as the main memory in computers. DRAM is built to industry
standards and is interchangeable by product. SK Hynix and Micron
have argued Rambus destroyed records that would have proved
Rambus misled the board that sets that standard.  2006 Verdict  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in
 Washington  previously upheld Whyte’s denial of SK Hynix’s bid to
throw out the 2006 verdict finding that the company infringed
Rambus patents.  SK Hynix said in a statement today that it plans to appeal
the decision after the judge issues his final ruling, saying the
fine was smaller than it expected.  “We are pleased that the court is recognizing the value in
Rambus intellectual property,” Sunnyvale, California-based
Rambus said in an e-mailed statement. “We are disappointed in
the sanction that reduces the judgment awarded to Rambus, but
hope the ruling will help provide impetus to resolve this
matter.”  The case is Hynix Semiconductor Inc. v. Rambus Inc.,  00-cv-20905, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  