-- Rand Hurt by ’Unnecessarily Negative’ Sentiment: Gordhan
-- B y   R y a n   C h i l c o t e   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-05-09T10:23:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/rand-hurt-by-unnecessarily-negative-sentiment-gordhan.html
South African Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said the rand’s weakness is related to “unnecessarily
negative” sentiment toward the country and the currency may be
weaker than it should be.  “Partly it’s driven by the tie-up with the euro and the
dollar,” Gordhan said today in an interview with Bloomberg TV
in Cape Town, where he is attending the  World Economic Forum  on
Africa. “Partly it’s linked to sentiment with  South Africa ,
which is unnecessarily negative. Some would say it’s slightly
more depreciated than it should be, but we don’t hedge our bets
in any particular direction.”  The rand has slumped 5.8 percent against the dollar this
year, making it the worst performer of 16 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg after the yen. Africa’s biggest economy
grew less than expected last year after a wave of mine and
transportation strikes hampered output.  The currency gained as much as 0.2 percent to 8.9820
against the dollar today and was trading at 8.9930 as of 12:03
p.m. in Johannesburg.  Gordhan said the  Reserve Bank  is probably monitoring
closely the actions that central banks around the world are
taking to bolster economic growth.  “I’m sure that they are watching carefully what’s
happening in Korea or Sweden or Australia, all of which have
done interesting things, if you like, in terms of their central
banks in order to address their economic environment,” he said.  Investors are increasing bets South African policy makers
will follow the  European Central Bank  and  Reserve Bank of
Australia  in cutting interest rates at the next meeting on May
23. The benchmark rate has been kept unchanged at 5 percent
since a reduction in July.  “Part of the adapted mandate that we’ve given to the
central bank is to, apart from looking at  price stability , keep
a careful watch on employment and growth numbers as well and I’m
sure they’ll try and find the right balance,” Gordhan said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan Chilcote in London at 
 rchilcote@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  