-- ‘American Idol’ Judge Randy Jackson to Exit Fox Show This Year
-- B y   A n t h o n y   P a l a z z o
-- 2013-05-10T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/randy-jackson-to-leave-american-idol-after-12-years-as-judge.html
Randy Jackson , the only judge to
appear on Fox’s “American Idol” for each of its 12 years, said
he will leave the pioneering talent show at season’s end.  Jackson, a bassist and music-industry executive, acted as a
buffer to the caustic  Simon Cowell  during the program’s most
popular years. More recently he was a stabilizing presence as
celebrity judges came and went.  This season, with pop divas Nicki Minaj and  Mariah Carey 
feuding, the audience for “Idol” is down about 20 percent,
based on Nielsen ratings. The show, no longer No. 1 among prime-time programs, still ranks in the top 10. Fox, the broadcast
network owned by  Rupert Murdoch ’s  News Corp. (NWSA) , was set to fire
all four judges, including country music star Keith Urban, the
website TheWrap.com reported this week.  “To put all of the speculation to rest, after 12 years of
judging on ‘American Idol’ I have decided to leave after this
season,” Jackson said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “I
am very proud of how we forever changed television and the music
industry.”  Gaude Paez, a spokeswoman for Fox, declined to comment.  “American Idol” airs two nights a week, on Wednesdays and
Thursdays, and is averaging 15 million viewers per episode since
it returned in January, according to Nielsen data. It’s the most
popular show for Fox, which suffered a 20 percent drop in
audience ratings for the season through May 5.  Jackson’s exit comes as the broadcast television networks
prepare for meetings with advertisers in  New York  next week,
where they will preview lineups for the season that starts in
September. Fox releases its schedule on May 13.  Jackson told the E! News  website  yesterday he planned to
leave the show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony Palazzo in Los Angeles at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  