-- Rangers Tie NHL Series at 2 Games Each as Bruins Move Ahead 3-1
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-05-09T05:43:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/rangers-beat-capitals-to-tie-nhl-series-at-two-games-apiece.html
The  New York Rangers  defeated the
Washington Capitals 4-3 to tie their playoff series at two games
apiece, and the three other National Hockey League postseason
games last night all went to overtime.  The Boston Bruins came within one game of eliminating the
Toronto Maple Leafs with a 4-3 win, Los Angeles also moved to
the brink of advancing with a 3-2 win at St. Louis and Anaheim
took a three-games-to-two lead in its best-of-seven series with
a 3-2 home win against Detroit.  Tonight, the  Ottawa Senators  can eliminate the  Montreal
Canadiens  with a victory, the  New York Islanders  seek to break a
2-2 tie with the  Pittsburgh Penguins  and a Chicago win against
the Minnesota Wild would give the Blackhawks the series.  Brad Richards  and Carl Hagelin gave New York a 2-0 lead
before Mathieu Perreault and Troy Brouwer scored for Washington
to tie it after the second period at Madison Square Garden in
New York.  Dan Girardi  made it 3-2 for New York 59 seconds into the
third period and Derek Stepan added a fourth goal for the home
team five minutes later. Karl Alzner got the final goal for the
Capitals.  “I think we’ve done better as the series has gone on,”
said Rangers coach  John Tortorella . “One thing I like about our
team the past couple of games is that we certainly have bent at
times but didn’t break.”  Rangers’ Resiliency  The Capitals, who have lost two in a row, host Game 5
tomorrow. All four games in the series so far have been won by
the home team.  “I think our resiliency has really shown in these past two
games and we are going to need that when we go to Washington,”
Tortorella said. “They are going to surge there and we just
need to find a way to keep our heads above water and find a way
to win a game.”  David Krejci  scored his third goal of the game -- a 34-foot
wristshot -- 13 minutes, six seconds into overtime to give the
Bruins a 3-1 lead in their first-round series.  The Maple Leafs had a 2-0 first-period lead on goals by
Joffrey Lupul and Cody Franson at the Air Canada Centre in
Toronto.  Patrice Bergeron had Boston’s first goal in the second
period followed by back-to-back scores by Krejci before
Toronto’s Clarke MacArthur tied it for the Maple Leafs.  Boston hosts Game 5 tomorrow.  At Scottrade Center in St. Louis, Slava Voynov scored
midway through overtime to give the Kings a 3-2 advantage in
their Western Conference series, which moves to their home ice
tomorrow.  The Kings’  Jeff Carter  had two goals, while the Blues got
goals from Alexander Steen and Alex Pietrangelo.  Nick Bonino’s 14-foot wristshot 1:54 into overtime gave the
Ducks a 3-2 series advantage before moving to Detroit for Game 6
tomorrow.  The Red Wings got goals from Johan Franzen and Mikael Samuelsson. Kyle Palmieri and Ryan Getzlaf also scored for
Anaheim.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  