-- RBS Investors Urged to Vote Down Accounts at Shareholder Meeting
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-05-09T15:30:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/rbs-investors-urged-to-vote-down-accounts-at-shareholder-meeting.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
investors should oppose the firm’s annual report and accounts
because the lender may not be valuing its assets correctly, the
U.K. Local Authority Pension Fund Forum said.  RBS may have undisclosed losses of 10 billion pounds ($15.5
billion) under current accounting rules, which allow banks to
understate potential losses on bad loans, the U.K. pension fund
lobby group said in a statement today.  Linda Harper , a
spokeswoman for RBS, declined to comment.  “LAPFF has repeatedly raised concerns that the financial
position of RBS, and other banks, is distorted by International
Financial Reporting Standards,” LAPFF said in the statement.
“As a result, a substantial amount of lifetime expected losses
were missing from U.K. banks’ accounts. This was particularly
relevant to banks with high-risk lending, like RBS.”  Last month, the lobby group said  Barclays Plc (BARC)  shareholders
should oppose that bank’s annual report and accounts on concern
that IFRS accounting standards allowed it to overstate its
profits and could have been used to justify executive bonuses.
The report was approved by investors at Barclays’s annual
general meeting in April. RBS, Britain’s biggest government-owned lender, is scheduled to hold its AGM on May 14.  In March, the  Bank of England  said U.K. lenders needed to
raise 25 billion pounds of additional capital to cover bigger
potential losses on commercial real estate, possible fines for
mis-selling and stricter risk models. RBS said last week it had
not yet been told by regulators if it needs to bolster capital.  Shareholders of RBS should also oppose the bank’s proposal
to issue bonds that would become equity in a crisis because the
bank hasn’t been transparent about its capital position, LAPFF
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  