-- Real Madrid Stays in Title Race; Napoli Into Champions League
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-05-09T01:28:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/real-madrid-stays-in-title-race-napoli-into-champions-league.html
Real Madrid beat Malaga 6-2 to prevent
Barcelona from securing the Spanish La Liga soccer title, while
Napoli clinched one of Italy’s Champions League spots.  Cristiano Ronaldo scored his 34th league goal last night to
help Real pull within eight points of Barcelona with three
matches remaining. The league leader, which has played one game
fewer, would have claimed the championship if Real hadn’t won.  Raul Albiol, Mesut Ozil,  Karim Benzema ,  Luka Modric  and
Angel Di Maria also scored for defending champion Real at its
Santiago Bernabeu stadium. Roque Santa Cruz and Vitorino Antunes
got Malaga’s goals.  Barcelona can seal the title May 12 when it visits third-place  Atletico Madrid , which beat Celta Vigo 3-1 last night.
Barca will be guaranteed the championship if Real fails to win
at Espanyol the day before.  In Italy’s Serie A, Napoli won 3-0 at Bologna to claim a
berth in Europe’s elite club competition. Marek Hamsik, Blerim
Dzemaili and Edinson Cavani scored as Napoli clinched second
place behind champion Juventus, which beat Atalanta 1-0.  AC Milan maintained its hold on the third Champions League
place from Italy with a 4-0 rout of Pescara.  Mario Balotelli 
scored twice as Milan stayed four points clear of fourth-place
Fiorentina, which won 1-0 at Siena, with two matches remaining.  Inter Milan’s chances of playing in any European
competition next season were dashed by a 3-1 home loss to Lazio.
The loss leaves Inter, which won the Champions League in 2010,
in eighth place with 53 points, seven fewer than fifth-place
Udinese in the final Europe League qualifying spot.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 