-- Repsol First-Quarter Profit Gains on Brazil’s Sapinhoa, Refining
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L a y a
-- 2013-05-09T09:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/repsol-first-quarter-gains-on-brazil-s-sapinhoa-refining-margin.html
Repsol SA (REP) , the Spanish oil producer
that lost a third of its value last year, said first-quarter
earnings beat estimates as refining margins widened and
production ramped up in  Brazil .  Profit climbed 38 percent to 634 million euros ($834
million) from 458 million euros a year earlier, the Madrid based
company said today in a statement, beating a 540 million-euro
mean  estimate  in a Bloomberg survey of analysts. Repsol’s
results reflect continuing operations and strip out its former
Argentine unit YPF SA, seized in April of 2012.  First production from its Brazilian Sapinhoa field, one of
the largest in the country, as well as higher contributions from
Bolivia’s Margarita field and the Russian SK field, bolstered
production 11 percent to 360,300 barrels per day in the first
quarter. The company reported seven out of nine wells drilled in
the first quarter were successful.  Repsol’s refining margin in Spain jumped to $3.90 a barrel
from $3 a year earlier. The Spanish driller can generate an
additional 200 million euros in earnings before interest and tax
for each dollar per barrel added in refining margins, RBC energy
analyst Peter Hutton estimates.  The shares gained as much as 1.9 percent to 18.55 euros in
Madrid trading, the highest in a year. The stock has rebounded
20 percent this year.  “With an impressive track record on divestments, the focus
of attention has turned back to upstream and the diversified
exploration portfolio,” BPI analysts said in a report.  LNG Earnings  Repsol said its liquefied natural gas division, most of
which it sold to  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  in February for $4.4
billion, almost doubled profit to 311 million euros in the first
quarter from 158 million euros a year earlier. The company is
evaluating options for its regasification plant in  Canada , which
was left out of the Shell deal and written down by $1.3 billion,
according to the earnings report.  “The main beat is in the LNG division,” Neill Morton, an
analyst at Investec, said a report. “The caveat is that the
bulk of Repsol’s LNG business is being sold” and the extra
profits will accrue to Shell and offset the transaction price,
he said.  Repsol has demanded compensation for its Argentinian unit,
expropriated shortly after YPF announced the discoveries in Vaca
Muerta, and estimated to hold at least 23 billion barrels of oil
equivalent. The company’s stake could be valued at more than $15
billion, according to a report by IESE business school Professor
Pablo Fernandez.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Laya in  Madrid  at 
 playa2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  