-- Rinehart’s Son Seeks Control of Multibillion Family Trust
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-05-09T02:46:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/rinehart-s-son-seeks-control-of-multibillion-family-trust.html
John Hancock , who has feuded with his
billionaire mother Gina Rinehart for at least a decade, today
for the first time sought to wrest control of a multibillion
dollar family trust from her.  Hancock is prepared to be the trustee of the Hope Margaret
Hancock Trust, his lawyer Christopher Withers said at a hearing
in New South Wales Supreme Court in Sydney today. Hancock and
his sister Bianca Rinehart sued to remove their mother as
trustee, accusing her of misconduct.  “That is the focus of the litigation,” Justice Patricia
Bergin said, referring to Rinehart’s removal and adding the
replacement trustee should be dealt with at trial, scheduled to
start Oct. 1.  The trust holds almost a quarter of  Gina Rinehart ’s
estimated net worth of $17.3 billion, which makes her the 42nd
richest person in the world, according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index . Included in the trust are 23.5 percent of
shares in Hancock Prospecting Pty, Gina Rinehart’s iron ore
company which collects royalties from  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  operations
and is building its first mine.  Mother’s Side  Hancock, Gina’s only son, and his sisters Bianca and Hope Rinehart Welker sued to remove their mother as trustee in
September 2011 after she had sought to extend her control of the
trust to 2068, threatening the children with bankruptcy if they
didn’t agree. Welker pulled out of the lawsuit earlier this year
and is now named as a defendant. Ginia, the youngest of Gina’s
children, has sided with her mother since the suit was filed.  In the initial complaint, the children accused their mother
of misconduct by threatening their financial ruin, giving them a
single day to sign the accord extending her control of the trust
and lying to them in a bid to sign the agreement. Hancock and
Bianca are revising the complaint to reflect Welker’s withdrawal
and putting Hancock up as a replacement trustee.  Gina Rinehart plans to argue Hancock isn’t a suitable
replacement, her lawyer David Russell told Bergin today.  Based on evidence that will be presented in court, “Mr.
Hancock would be far less satisfactory” as a replacement, even
if the judge finds Gina Rinehart should be removed, Russell
said. He didn’t elaborate on the evidence he plans to present.  Earlier Claims  “I’m not worried,” Hancock said in an e-mail today.
“I’ve done nothing wrong.”  He said he was capable of fulfilling the duties of a
trustee and a qualified independent person would be as well.  Hancock dumped his mother’s name and adopted that of his
grandfather in 2003. Two years later he agreed to drop claims
against his mother and her company in exchange for A$398,125
($407,481) which he received in lieu of any distributions from
the Hope Margaret Trust before it vested in 2011, on Ginia’s
25th birthday.  Under the agreement, Hancock was also promised a job with a
stock broker who would take Hancock Prospecting to an initial
public offering, and if that didn’t happen, Hancock would get
A$2 million, according to a copy of the agreement released in
the case.  Hancock has also suggested that in his stead, an
independent trustee could be appointed by the court, a proposal
disputed by Rinehart who claims that would violate agreements
that prohibit non-family members from controlling the trust.  “The last thing this litigation needs is more
litigation,” Bergin said in response to a proposal from the
defendants’ lawyers to challenge the idea of naming an
independent trustee in pre-trial arguments.  The case is John Langley Hancock v Gina Hope Rinehart.
2011/285907. New South Wales Supreme Court (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  