-- Romania’s Junk Credit Rating Maintained by S&P on ‘High’ Debt
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-05-09T14:58:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/romania-s-junk-credit-rating-maintained-by-s-p-on-high-debt.html
Standard & Poor’s affirmed  Romania ’s
junk credit rating for a fifth year as “high” external debt is
balanced by budget rigor.  The eastern European country’s long-term government bond
rating was maintained at BB+, one level below investment grade
and on par with Croatia and  Indonesia , S&P said today in a
statement. It left the outlook on the rating at stable.  “Romania’s ratings are constrained by its comparatively
low per capita gross domestic product, developing institutions,
and vulnerability to external shocks owing to its still-high,
albeit declining, external debt,” S&P analysts Leila Butt and
Frank Gill, said in the statement. “The stable outlook reflects
our opinion that Romania’s government will continue to
consolidate its public finances.”  Romania is struggling to shed its junk rating after
embarking on one of European Union’s toughest austerity programs
in 2010 with a 25 percent cut in state wages and a 5 percentage-point increase in the value-added tax. The government, which
arranged two international bailout loans, narrowed the budget
gap to 2.5 percent of GDP last year from 7.2 percent in 2009.
Public debt was about 36 percent of GDP in January.  The cost to insure government debt against non-payment for
five years with credit-default swaps rose to 178 points today
after reaching 176 yesterday, the lowest since 2008. The yields
on Romania’s 2023 dollar-denominated bonds declined two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.94 percent after touching
a record-low 3.79 percent on May 3.  Romania’s rating may come under pressure should the pace of
“fiscal consolidation slow,” or the government deviate from
its “structural reform strategy,” according to S&P. The
ratings company may consider an upgrade “if the government
continues to push through with structural measures to improve
competitiveness and potential growth, while building a sustained
track record of fiscal prudence as external pressures
diminish.”  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  