-- Russia Weapons Sale to Syria Would Be Destabilizing, Kerry Says
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-05-09T20:30:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/russia-weapons-sale-to-syria-would-be-destabilizing-kerry-says.html
The U.S. has expressed its concern to
Russia about the sale of any advanced missile systems to  Syria ,
which would be “destabilizing” for  Israel ’s security,
Secretary of State  John Kerry  said.  “I think we’ve made it crystal clear we would prefer that
Russia was not supplying assistance” to the Syrian regime in
its war against opposition forces, Kerry said in  Rome  today.
Kerry had lengthy talks with Russian leaders earlier this week
in Moscow, where they agreed to try to push both sides in the
Syrian conflict into peace talks.  As  United Nations  and European leaders said the U.S.-
Russian agreement was a promising development, Israel has told
the U.S. that a deal is imminent for Russia to sell S-300 air
defense missile batteries to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s
regime, according to the Wall Street Journal.  Kerry didn’t comment on the impact of Syria’s potential
acquisition of advanced ground-to-air missile systems on the
balance of power in the two-year civil war or on the ability of
outside nations such as the U.S. to intervene militarily to
assist opposition forces.  The S-300 missile system would bolster Syria’s defenses,
complicating efforts by outside powers to enforce a no-fly zone
over the country and counteracting military assistance from U.S.
allies to the rebels. Officials in the U.S. and Israel declined
to comment on a potential arms sale.  The conflict has escalated with allegations of chemical
weapons use by government and rebel forces and airstrikes by
Israel on weapons caches that may have been destined for the
anti-Israel Hezbollah militia in Lebanon.  Chemical Weapons  Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  said today in
an interview with NBC News that “it is clear” Assad’s regime
has used chemical weapons.  In  London , U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s spokesman
today said Assad’s regime is probably responsible for any
chemical weapons use in Syria.  “Our assessment is that chemical weapons use in Syria is
very likely to have been initiated by the regime,” Jean-Christophe Gray told reporters in London. “We have no evidence
to date of opposition use.”  Cameron, who is to meet tomorrow with Russian President
 Vladimir Putin  in Sochi, told Parliament yesterday there is an
“urgent need” for international negotiations on Syria. Cameron
is scheduled to meet May 13 with President  Barack Obama  at the
White House.  At a joint news conference in Rome with Italian Foreign
Minister Emma Bonino, Kerry said the U.S. and Russia are
together trying to “create a new dynamic” to get both sides in
the Syrian conflict to cease hostilities and agree on
establishing a transitional government. The United Nations says
the war has claimed more than 70,000 lives since March 2011.  ‘Good News’  The UN’s special envoy on Syria, Lakhdar Brahimi has agreed
to withdraw his planned resignation and stay on to try to broker
the international peace conference proposed by Kerry and Russian
Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov , UN Deputy Secretary-General Jan Eliasson said today.  “This is welcome, good news” that the U.S. and Russia
have “come forward with this initiative. We have now
challenges, work ahead,” Eliasson told reporters in  New York .  The U.S.-Russia initiative “is the first hopeful news
concerning that unhappy country in a very long time,” Brahimi
said in a statement yesterday.  Opposition View  So far, Syria’s opposition is spurning efforts to engage in
talks with Assad or his close circle.  The Syrian National Coalition said any political solution
“should start with the departure of Bashar al-Assad and the
pillars of his regime,” according to a statement on its
Facebook page that cast doubt on prospects for new talks.  Seeking to address the opposition’s concerns, Kerry said
today in Rome that Assad won’t be part of any transitional
government. Two days ago in Moscow, Kerry had agreed with
 Russia ’s position that Assad’s resignation can’t be a
precondition for talks, saying a leadership transition must be
made by “mutual consent” of the current regime and the
opposition.  Syria’s government said today it is ready to engage in
talks, and said it believes Russia remains opposed to outside
military intervention or interference in Syria’s affairs,
according to the official news agency  SANA . The “credibility”
of American backing for the proposed talks depends on “working
seriously with its allies to halt the violence and terrorism,”
Syria’s foreign ministry said.  Laying Groundwork  Kerry today said the U.S. has already begun “productive”
conversations with the opposition and other nations to prepare
the ground for the U.S.-Russian initiative. U.S. ambassador to
Syria,  Robert Ford , arrived in Istanbul yesterday to meet with
opposition leaders in a bid to persuade them to participate.  Opposition officials expect that the U.S. will try to use
the influence from friendly nations, such as  Saudi Arabia , to
get them to attend a conference where Assad and his government
are represented, Samir Nashar, a member of the Syrian National
Coalition, told Al Arabiya TV yesterday. The starting point for
any negotiation is Assad’s departure, he said.  Russia, whose ties with the Assad dynasty date to the
Soviet era, has vetoed three European-drafted UN Security
Council resolutions condemning the Syrian government’s crackdown
and threatening to impose economic sanctions. Russia has
defended its actions, saying the opposition was equally to blame
for the violence and that Western powers were seeking a Libya-style regime change.  In Geneva last year, Russia and anti-Assad nations agreed
in principle to UN-brokered guidelines to bring the conflict to
a close. Still, difficulties arose when it came down to details
and bringing about a transition.  Kerry met May 7 with Lavrov and Putin amid calls from some
Democrats and Republicans in the  U.S. Congress  for American
intervention in the civil war.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Rome at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  