-- Rwanda Central Bank May Keep Rates Unchanged: Governor
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2013-05-09T08:23:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/rwanda-central-bank-may-keep-rates-unchanged-governor.html
Rwanda ’s central bank will probably
keep its key  interest rate  unchanged this year as inflation
remains below 10 percent and better harvests support growth in
the East African economy, Governor John Rwangombwa said.  “I expect it to remain more or less the same for the rest
of the year,” Rwangombwa said in an interview today in Cape
Town, where he is attending the  World Economic Forum  on Africa.
“I don’t think we need to make any big changes in our monetary
policy. We see stability in our economy.”  The National Bank of Rwanda left its main policy rate
unchanged at 7.5 percent for a fourth meeting in March to curb
inflationary pressure after the suspension of aid by donors
including the U.K. and  World Bank  last year caused the franc to
drop to a record low against the dollar. Donors have resumed aid
to Rwanda and the sale of the nation’s debut $400 million
Eurobond last month helped to boost foreign-currency reserves,
supporting the franc, Rwangombwa said.  Inflation, which slowed to 3.3 percent in March, will
probably end the year at about 5 percent, the governor said. The
currency’s depreciation may be contained to less than 2 percent
against the dollar, Rwangombwa said.  The franc has weakened 2.1 percent against the dollar so
far this year. The currency traded unchanged at 645 per dollar
as of 9:56 a.m. in Kigali, Rwanda’s capital.  The  International Monetary Fund   forecast  last month that
the inflation rate may climb to 7.5 by December.  Rwangombwa was finance minister of Rwanda for more than
three years until he was appointed as head of the central bank
in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  