-- South Africa Union Plans Wage Talks With Lonmin and Impala
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-05-09T14:42:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/s-africa-union-plans-separate-wage-talks-with-lonmin-and-impala.html
A South African labor union locked in
a battle for dominance at local mines plans to hold separate
wage talks with  Lonmin Plc (LON)  and  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) 
instead of mediating with the Chamber of Mines industry body.  The Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union plans
to hold discussions with the companies on May 13 and 14,
Treasurer Jimmy Gama told journalists in Johannesburg.  Competition between the  National Union of Mineworkers  and
the AMCU, which is seeking recognition from companies after
increasing its membership, is intensifying before industrywide
wage talks. Miners at Lonmin’s Marikana operations refused to go
underground in March, demanding the NUM close its office. The
AMCU expects a mandate from members within two weeks on whether
to negotiate with gold and coal producers through the Chamber.  The union has referred talks on recognition by Lonmin to
the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration, the
company said today in a statement. Lonmin proposed a “multi-union framework” in talks that began in January, it said. The
AMCU represents 70 percent of Lonmin’s workers on the so-called
category 4-9 job scale, and the NUM 20 percent, it added.  The AMCU, with a total membership of about 120,000 workers,
wants a threshold for recognition of 30 percent, while Lonmin is
seeking a level of 10 percent, the union’s President Joseph Mathunjwa told reporters. “We cannot allow that,” he said.  The AMCU accounts for more than 50 percent of Impala
workers,  Bob Gilmour , a spokesman for the company, said in an e-mailed response to questions. While Impala has not had a request
to engage with the union in wage negotiations, discussions are
taking place, he said.  Impala hasn’t concluded a formal recognition agreement of
the AMCU, according to Mathunjwa. “They can delay it as much as
they like, it won’t prevent us putting demands on their
doorstep.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hilton Shone at 
 hshone@bloomberg.net  