-- Sales of Notes Tied to Proprietary Indexes Drop to 7-Month Low
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2013-05-09T16:53:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/sales-of-notes-tied-to-proprietary-indexes-drop-to-7-month-low.html
Sales of U.S. structured notes tied to
proprietary indexes fell last month to the lowest since
September amid a slump in commodity prices that has hurt the
value of some of the securities.  Banks issued $28.5 million of the notes last month, a
decline of 65 percent from the $82.4 million sold in January,
while total sales dropped 24 percent during the same period,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Securities tied to
tailored indexes that track commodity prices plunged 90 percent
to $5 million.  Commodities from copper to silver have lost as much as 21
percent of their value this year. A weaker economy in  China , the
world’s biggest consumer of metals and energy, has weighed on
copper while U.S. fiscal austerity measures may have affected
precious metals such as gold.  That makes investors’ diminished appetite for proprietary-index notes linked to commodities unsurprising, said Jim Kaiser,
president of FMG Distributors Inc., a securities brokerage in
Norwalk,  Connecticut . “Once their finger gets burned on the
stove, I think they pull back,” he said.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities fell 2.1
percent this year as of the close of trading yesterday.  “Similar to last year, the market expected big things from
Chinese growth this year,” said Nic Brown, head of commodities
research at Natixis in  London , in a telephone interview. “And
the early signs were not good.”  Sequester Effect  The price of gold, which often rises in times of economic
uncertainty, has declined as the U.S. starts to implement fiscal
austerity resulting from the so-called sequester, he said.
Investor concerns that some central banks may sell their gold
reserves have also depressed the metal’s value, according to
Brown.  More than half of this year’s $96.4 million of notes tied
to tailored indexes of commodities were issued in January by
Bank of America Corp. and Deutsche Bank AG, Bloomberg data show.  Bank of America had the biggest such sale, $24.1 million of
14-month  notes  tied to the Merrill Lynch Commodity index eXtra
Precious Metals Plus - Excess Return. The securities, issued
Jan. 30, yield three times the gains of the index up to 13.05
percent, according to a prospectus filed with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  The index, made up of futures contracts on gold, platinum,
palladium and silver, has dropped 13 percent since the notes
were sold as of yesterday. They last traded at 81.5 cents on the
dollar on April 24, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Most Popular  The most popular proprietary index this year is the
 JPMorgan ETF Efficiente 5 Index (EEJPUS5E) , which accounts for $56.2
million of sales, Bloomberg data show. The New York-based bank
sold $13.5 million of the notes in April, 40 percent less than
in January.  The gauge, which rebalances monthly, is made up of 12
exchange-traded funds and a cash index, according to the
prospectus. Investors have bought $1.26 billion of certificates
of deposit linked to the benchmark since December 2010, said
Elizabeth Seymour, a spokeswoman for the bank.  Matt Card, a spokesman for Bank of America, and Amanda Williams, a spokeswoman for Deutsche Bank, declined to comment
or to provide sales data of CDs tied to the lenders’ notes.  Investors bought $2.8 billion of U.S. structured notes in
April, compared with $3.33 billion the month before and $3.71
billion in January.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in interest rates or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in  New York  at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  