-- Scots Independence Support Slumps, Poll Finds
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-05-09T12:58:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/scots-independence-support-slumps-poll-finds.html
Support for Scottish independence
crumbled as most people said they had made up their minds before
next year’s referendum, according to a poll published today.  Backing for quitting the U.K. fell to 31 percent among
those certain to vote, down three percentage points from
February, while support for maintaining the status quo rose four
percentage points to 59 percent, the  Ipsos MORI poll  found. Only
one in 10 voters has yet to make up his or her mind.  Independence is the cornerstone policy of Scottish First
Minister  Alex Salmond  and his  Scottish National Party . The poll
of 1,001 voters was taken a week after Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  closed the door on an independent
Scotland having a formal agreement to continue to use the pound.  “Most Scots who plan to vote say that they have made up
their minds, with a clear majority opting to remain part of the
U.K.,” Christopher McLean, senior researcher at Ipsos MORI
Scotland, said in a statement on the polling company’s website.
“The Yes Scotland campaign will have to convince the vast
majority of the remaining, floating voters to support
independence if it is to stand any chance of achieving
independence in September 2014.”  The 28 percentage-point gap in favor of  Scotland  staying in
the U.K. compares with 21 points in February. Last month, TNS
BRMB said the gap widened to 21 points from 19 points in
February. TNS BRMB said one in five voters were still undecided.  Certain Voters  Among those certain to vote and who have also made up their
minds how they will vote in the referendum on Sept. 18 next
year, those in favor of staying in the U.K. are ahead by 67
percent to 33 percent.  Apart from a short blip after the SNP won the Scottish
parliamentary elections in 2011, support for independence has
hovered between 30 percent and 35 percent for the past 35 years,
Ipsos MORI said.  Support among women has fallen five percentage points to 23
percent in the past three months, while backing from men fell
two percentage points to 39 percent. Just over one in four
voters age 55 or older plans to vote in favor.  “This is another very encouraging poll,”  Alistair Darling , head of the Better Together campaign, said in an e-mailed statement. “The events of the past few weeks have
exposed the fact that, despite having 80 years to think about
it, the nationalists do not know even know the answer to basic
questions like what currency we would use if we go it alone.”  The 31 percent support for independence was one point
higher than in October, the SNP said in a statement on the
party’s website.  SNP ‘Confident’  “We are confident that we can persuade a majority of our
fellow citizens between now and September 2014 that good
government with independence is better than bad government from
Westminster,” the party said.  Support for the SNP for Scottish parliamentary elections
dropped four percentage points to 39 percent, leaving them just
ahead of Labour, which rose one point to 36 percent. The
Scottish Conservatives gained three percentage points to 16
percent, while backing for the Liberal Democrats rose to 8
percent from 7 percent, the poll found.  No margin of error was given for the poll, which was
carried out between April 29 and May 5.  A  separate poll  by YouGov Plc that was commissioned by the
SNP found that 66 percent of Scots want to keep the pound in the
event of independence.  “The pound is Scotland’s currency every bit as much as the
rest of the U.K.’s, and Westminster’s threats have clearly
backfired,” Stewart Hosie, the SNP’s finance spokesman in the
U.K. parliament, said in a statement on the party’s website.
“An overwhelming majority of people in Scotland, including
Labour, Tory and Lib Dem voters, believe that an independent
Scotland should keep the pound.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  