-- Senate Republicans Block Committee Vote on Obama EPA Nominee
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-05-09T16:41:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/senate-republicans-block-committee-vote-on-obama-epa-nominee-1-.html
Republicans on the Senate Environment
and Public Works Committee blocked a vote on confirming Gina McCarthy to head the Environmental Protection Agency by
boycotting a meeting called to consider the nomination.  Louisiana Senator  David Vitter  said today the agency hasn’t
answered all the party’s questions, and none of the eight
Republicans attended the meeting scheduled this morning.
Committee rules require two minority-party members or all
majority-party members be present and voting for action.  “I am stunned that this happened,” said Senator  Barbara Boxer  of California, the chairman, who vowed to schedule a time
for a vote, even if Republicans continue to refuse to
participate. “This is outrageous.”  It is the second time Senate Republicans blocked committee
action on a nomination by President  Barack Obama  in 24 hours.
Yesterday, a party member invoked an infrequently used Senate
rule to delay for a week a committee meeting to vote on  Thomas Perez  to be labor secretary. Republican leader  Mitch McConnell 
said Perez was in pursuit of a “far-left ideology.”  “The obstruction is reaching new levels of absurdity,”
 Dan Pfeiffer , a senior adviser to Obama, wrote today on his
Twitter account.  Romney Aide  McCarthy, if confirmed, would take over an agency that
Republicans have criticized for pollution limits that they say
will cost jobs and hurt the economy. McCarthy is assistant
administrator for air pollution at the EPA, and before joining
the Obama administration served Republican governors, including
 Mitt Romney  in Massachusetts.  McCarthy didn’t return a telephone message left at her
office.  Vitter said he had asked five specific questions of the EPA
related to transparency in agency decision-making, and he said
the agency had only adequately answered one query.  “We’re not asking the administration to walk away from
their views on  carbon emissions , or anything else,” Vitter
said. Instead, they seek “openness and transparency.”  Asked what their action had to do with McCarthy’s
credentials, Vitter said lawmakers are concerned about openness
and transparency at the EPA. He said that as a top EPA official,
McCarthy is accountable for the agency’s handling of information
and she’s been “extremely irresponsible” in dealing with their
requests.  Letters Released  Democrats countered that Vitter and other Republicans are
just unhappy with the responses they got, and they distributed a
series of letters the EPA had sent to Vitter and other
Republicans answering each of those five specific questions.  The agency pledged to better respond to Freedom of
Information Act requests, limiting use of personal e-mail
accounts for official business and to publish pending lawsuits
against the agency, which are often the prelude to settlements
that lead to new regulations.  “The bottom line is that they got the answers to their
questions, folks, but they don’t like the answers,” Boxer said.
McCarthy had answered more than 1,000 specific inquiries, more
than three times the previous record, she said.  “They are pretending that obstruction is about
transparency,”  John Walke , clean air director at the  Natural
Resources Defense Council , said today in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  