-- Shire Wins Block of Actavis’s Lialda Copy Until 2020
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 2013-05-09T20:34:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/shire-wins-block-of-actavis-s-lialda-copy-until-2020.html
Shire Plc (SHP)  won a court ruling that will
help it prevent  Actavis Inc. (ACT)  from selling generic versions of
the ulcerative colitis drug Lialda in the U.S. until 2020.  A patent on the medicine would be infringed by the Actavis
version, U.S. District Judge Donald Middlebrooks in Ft.
Lauderdale,  Florida , said in an opinion today. The judge
rejected claims the patent was invalid. Actavis said in a
statement it is reviewing the decision and “will evaluate all
available options, including an appeal.”  Lialda, whose active ingredient is mesalamine, generated
$400 million in sales last year for Shire, or 8.6 percent of the
company’s revenue, according to  Bloomberg data . Efforts to
expand the use of the drug to patients with diverticulitis to
boost sales failed, London-based Shire said in March.  The ruling “supports the innovative therapies that we
develop in order to improve the lives of ulcerative colitis
patients,” Roger Adsett, head of Shire’s gastrointestinal
business unit, said in a statement.  The patent, issued in 2004, is for a controlled-release
composition of mesalamine. Parsippany, New Jersey-based Actavis
had claimed the patent didn’t adequately describe what Shire
claimed it covered. The judge, who issued his ruling after a
five-day non-jury trial last month, said Shire is entitled to an
order that would block the generic version until the patent
expires.  Shire said no generic-drug companies have received
regulatory approval to sell versions of the medicine. The patent
expires June 8, 2020, according to  information  posted on the
U.S.  Food and Drug Administration ’s website.  The case is Shire Development LLC v. Watson Pharmaceuticals
Inc., 12cv60862, U.S. District Court for the Southern District
of Florida (Ft. Lauderdale).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Larkin at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 