-- Sinarmas Said to Hire Macquarie for $300 Million Deltamas Offer
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2013-05-09T01:33:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/sinarmas-said-to-hire-macquarie-for-300-million-deltamas-offer.html
Sinarmas Land , an Indonesian developer
of homes, shops and golf courses, hired  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  for
an initial public offering of an industrial properties project
that may raise as much as $300 million, said people with
knowledge of the matter.  The sale of shares in Kota Deltamas, also owned by Japan’s
Sojitz Corp., may raise $200 million to $300 million as early as
this year, the people said, asking not to be named as the
information is private. PT Sinarmas Sekuritas,  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
and  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  will also help manage the offering, the
people said.  Shares of industrial real estate companies in Indonesia
have surged this year, powered by a booming economy.  PT Bekasi
Fajar Industrial Estate (BEST) ’s stock has risen 51 percent and PT
Surya Semesta Internusa Tbk is up 43 percent, beating the 18
percent gain for the benchmark Jakarta Composite Index.  The Kota Deltamas project in Cikarang, about 37 kilometers
(23 miles) from Jakarta, covers an area of about 3,000 hectares
and will also include commercial and residential facilities,
according to its  website . An e-mail from Bloomberg News to
Sinarmas Land seeking comment on the IPO went unanswered.  Sinarmas Land is part of the Sinar Mas Group, one of the
largest conglomerates in Indonesia and founded by the country’s
richest man, Eka Tjipta Widjaja. The group has interests ranging
from pulp and paper products, agribusiness and food to financial
services and real estate. Its other listed property companies
are  PT Bumi Serpong Damai (BSDE) , PT Duta Pertiwi Tbk and Singapore-traded Sinarmas Land Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  