-- Slovenia Presents Overhaul Program for EU to Prove No Aid Needed
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-05-09T14:39:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/slovenia-presents-overhaul-program-for-eu-to-prove-no-aid-needed.html
Slovenia offered an economic overhaul
that includes tax increases as the government seeks to prove
it’s able to pull itself out of a  recession  and a banking crisis
without outside assistance.  A higher sales tax will begin in July, a property tax will
start next year and public-sector wages will be cut to help
narrow a budget shortfall that is expected to more than double
by year’s end, Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek said. The gap will
reach 7.8 percent of gross domestic product and public debt will
rise to 61 percent this year, while a “crisis” tax plan,
scrapped for now, may be introduced later, she said.  The Adriatic nation is seeking to fix its ailing lenders
with a cash injection of at least 900 million euros ($1.17
billion) after Cyprus’s bailout focused investors on countries
with weak banking industries. The overhaul plan will be sent to
the European Commission in Brussels, which will decide if the
measures are sufficient to pull Slovenia out of crisis.  “We are aware that tax increases don’t positively impact
the economy and the recovery, but we have opted for the least
harmful option,” Bratusek told reporters today in Llubljana.  Finance Minister Uros Cufer, speaking at the same event,
said Slovenia needs 1 billion euros to consolidate public
finances and “since we cannot just cut expenditures, we have to
take measures on the revenue side.”  The yield on government dollar-denominated notes due 2022,
which reached a record-high 6.38 percent March 27, declined nine
basis point from yesterday to 5.26 percent at 4:21 p.m. in
Ljubljana, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Debt Levels  The nation’s debt level will settle at around 55 percent of
total output once the economy is back on its feet, Cufer said.
The budget gap and debt estimates exclude asset sales as
Slovenia plans to offer its second-biggest bank Nova Kreditna
Banka Maribor d.d. and Telekom Slovenije d.d., Cufer said.  “I believe this will satisfy the European Commission as I
wouldn’t be doing it if I believed otherwise,” Bratusek said.  European Union Economic Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn said
yesterday that “depending on how convincing, concrete and
reliable” Slovenia’s plans are, the commission will decide
about the next steps by the end of this month.  Slovenia, which had its credit rating cut to junk by
Moody’s Investors Service in the middle of a bond sale April 30,
raised $3.5 billion by selling debt two days later. The funds
will probably be used to recapitalize banks and finance the
budget.  The former Yugoslav nation, mired in its second recession
since 2009, will contract this year and next, according to a May
3 report by the European Commission. GDP is forecast to shrink 2
percent this year and 0.1 percent in 2014, the EU’s executive
arm said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  