-- Solazyme Climbs After Loss Beats Estimates: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2013-05-09T20:15:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/solazyme-advances-on-loss-beating-estimates-san-francisco-mover.html
Solazyme Inc. (SZYM) , a U.S. biofuel company
that produces oil from algae, advanced the most in two weeks
after reporting a smaller-than-expected first-quarter loss.  Solazyme gained 10 percent to $9.70 at the close in  New
York , the most since April 24. The shares have gained 23 percent
this year.  The net loss was $26.5 million, or 43 cents a share,
compared with a loss of $16.8 million, or 28 cents, a year
earlier, the South San Francisco, California-based company said
in a statement released yesterday after the close of regular
trading.  Excluding some expenses including stock-based compensation,
the company lost 35 cents a share, six cents better than the
average of seven estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Facilities being developed in  France ,  Brazil  and the U.S.
are on schedule to begin commercial production by early 2014 and
will reach full capacity in 12 to 18 months, Solazyme Chief
Executive Officer Jonathan Wolfson said yesterday on a call with
analysts. It has $239 million of cash on hand.  “The balance sheet is also in great shape, with by far the
largest cash balance in the peer group,”  Pavel Molchanov , an
analyst at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in Houston, wrote in
a note to investors today. Molchanov, who rates the shares the
equivalent of a buy with a 12-month price target of $10.50, said
he expects Solazyme to begin commercial-scale production within
12 months, “unquestionably the first player in the algae arena
to claim such a feat.”  Solazyme makes oils from sugar-consuming algae that are
processed into fuel and specialty chemicals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  