-- Sony Misses Estimates as Samsung Challenge Stalls
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2013-05-09T22:43:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/sony-forecasts-smaller-than-estimated-gain-in-annual-net-income.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  forecast annual profit
that missed analysts’ estimates as Chief Executive Officer Kazuo Hirai rolls out new Xperia smartphones and Bravia televisions to
recapture market share lost to Samsung Electronics Co.  Net income  may rise 16 percent to 50 billion yen ($507
million) in the year started April 1, the Tokyo-based company
said in a statement. That compares with the 66.4 billion-yen
 average  of 18  analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Hirai used job cuts, asset sales, a weaker yen and
blockbuster movies to return the company to profit after four
years of losses as the electronics business struggles to keep
consumers from migrating to Samsung products. The South Korean
company’s smartphones outsold Sony’s 7-to-1 last year, and its
flat-panel TVs generated more than triple Sony’s revenue.  “Sony is being bullish,” said Takashi Oba, a senior
strategist at Okasan Securities Co. “It’s up to whether it can
reduce the losses in its electronics business and produce hit
products.”  Sony posted a profit in the year ended March after it
generated about $2 billion in one-time gains selling  stock
holdings  and properties including its  New York  headquarters, a
chemicals unit and shares in health-care data provider  M3 Inc. (2413) 
Sony’s movie studio also topped the U.S. box-office last year
with hits including “Skyfall” and “The Amazing Spider-Man.”  Operating Profit  Sony fell 1.4 percent to close at 1,744 yen in  Tokyo 
trading before the announcement, trimming its gain this year to
82 percent.  Japan ’s benchmark  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average has
gained 37 percent this year. The company’s German shares fell as
much as 2.4 percent. Its American Depositary receipts rose 0.8
percent to $18.08 in New York trading.  Net income last fiscal year was 43 billion yen, the company
said yesterday. Operating profit may rise to 230 billion yen,
Sony said, compared with the 208 billion-yen average of analyst
estimates. Sales will increases 10 percent from a year earlier
to 7.5 trillion yen, it said. That compares with the 7 trillion-yen average of analyst estimates for revenue.  “We’ve improved our cost structure and are able now to
pursue volume growth,” Chief Financial Officer Masaru Kato
said.  The TV business, the world’s third-largest, was
unprofitable for a ninth straight year with a loss of 69.6
billion yen, excluding charges, amid sluggish demand and
competition from Samsung and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)   Sony’s share of revenue in the market for flat-panel TVs
fell to 7.8 percent compared with 27.7 percent for Samsung,
according to  Santa Clara , California-based  DisplaySearch .  Profit Target  Sony expects to sell 16 million TVs this fiscal year, up
from 13.5 million, as it focuses on ultra-high definition
screens that offer resolution four times sharper than
conventional models.  “I don’t know how Sony would be able to spur TV sales to
16 million,” said Makoto Kikuchi, chief executive officer at
Myojo Asset Management Japan Co. “Are there that many people
buying TVs?”  The company reiterated its target for the TV operation to
post a profit this year after racking up 800 billion yen in
losses since 2004.  Hirai’s plan to revive the consumer-electronics business
focuses on games, cameras and mobile devices, including the
flagship Xperia Z smartphone revealed at January’s  Consumer
Electronics Show  in  Las Vegas .  Smartphone Sales  Sony’s electronics operation will turn an operating profit
of about 100 billion yen this fiscal year, compared with a loss
of 130 billion yen a year earlier, Kato said. Smartphone sales
are expected to rise to 42 million units from 33 million units.  “Smartphones are going to start making contributions to
profit this year,” Kato said in Tokyo. “Xperia Z has been
getting great response from customers.”  Sony, Japan’s biggest smartphone maker, expanded its share
of the global market to 4.5 percent from 3.9 percent in the
final quarter of 2012, according to research company  IDC . Sony
shipped 30.4 million units last year, compared with Samsung’s
218.2 million, according to Bloomberg Industries.  In February, Sony previewed the PlayStation 4 video-game
console that will go on sale for the year-end holiday season.
The company’s first home-gaming machine in seven years will make
its debut amid an industry shift toward games played on
smartphones and tablets.  PlayStation, Movies  Profit at the game unit will be “essentially flat” as the
company boosts spending on research, development and marketing,
it said. Sales will rise “significantly” on the introduction
of the PS4.  Sales of handheld players, including the PS Vita and PSP,
will probably fall to 5 million from 7 million, and camera sales
are expected to fall 20 percent to 13.5 million units, Sony
said.  The movies unit may post little changed earnings, Sony
said. The company’s Columbia and Sony Classics divisions have
garnered 7.4 percent of U.S. gross ticket sales in 2013,
according to Boxofficemojo.com, a movie research site.  Income at the  financial-services business  may be little
changed while profit at the music unit, featuring Adele and
 Bruce Springsteen , will rise, the company said, citing digital
revenue and benefits of a weaker yen.  Sony said it’s assuming exchange rates of 90 yen to the
dollar and 120 yen to the euro for the fiscal year. Each 1-yen
gain in the value of the dollar would erode Sony’s annual
operating profit by about 3 billion yen, while a 1-yen gain in
the value of the euro would boost profit by about 7 billion yen,
Kato said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  