-- South Korea Joins India-to-Europe Rate Cuts for Growth: Economy
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2013-05-09T05:02:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/south-korea-joins-australia-to-europe-rate-reductions-correct-.html
The  Bank of Korea  cut interest rates,
following the lead of policy makers in  Australia , Europe and
 India  this month, as strength in the won and weakness in the yen
dim the outlook for the nation’s exports.  Governor Kim Choong Soo and his board lowered the benchmark
 seven-day repurchase rate  to 2.5 percent from 2.75 percent, the
central bank said in a statement in Seoul today. Six of 20
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  predicted the move while
the remainder forecast no change. Kim supported a cut after
opposing one last month.  As central banks around the world move to counter currency
appreciation, the won’s 24 percent jump against the yen in six
months is hampering South Korean exporters of autos and
electronics and aiding their Japanese rivals. In Seoul, ruling
New Frontier Party floor leader Lee Hahn Koo yesterday urged a
“more active role” for the BOK, adding to political pressure
that the central bank resisted last month.  “Japan’s policies must have played a very big role in
today’s decision,” said Huh Kwan, a Seoul-based fixed-income
trader at  Korea  Investment & Securities Co., one of  South
Korea ’s 20 primary dealers. “The cut can be seen as action to
ease a worsening impact on exports.”  The won was little changed against the dollar, trading at
1,086.65 as of 11:44 a.m. in Seoul. The Kospi stock index rose
0.8 percent.  China, Australia  Across the Asia Pacific region, data gave a mixed picture.
China reported inflation below the government’s 3.5 percent
target and the steepest decline in producer prices in six months,
highlighting weakness in the world’s second-biggest economy.
Australian employers added more than four times as many jobs as
analysts estimated, sending the local currency higher.  Malaysia is forecast to keep interest rates on hold today.
Elsewhere, the  Bank of England  is projected to keep its target
for asset purchases unchanged, while jobless-claims data will be
released in the U.S.  Central banks in India and Taiwan may follow with interest-rate cuts and the Philippines may reduce the rate it pays on
special deposit accounts,  Robert Prior-Wandesforde , an economist
at Credit Suisse AG in Singapore, wrote in a note today.  While a reduction in  Thailand  “is not part of our central
scenario, more dovish comments” from the central bank governor
today “suggest it would be unwise to rule out a cut
altogether,” Prior-Wandesforde said. The baht fell today for
the first time this week as speculation mounts that the Bank of
Thailand will lower borrowing costs to stem capital inflows.  Currency Gains  As Japan’s monetary easing drives down the yen, nations
including Australia,  New Zealand  and Switzerland are moving to
counter currency gains. Sweden’s Finance Minister  Anders Borg 
warned May 7 the krona’s strength is becoming a concern for the
nation’s export-oriented economy and called on the central bank
to consider that.  Today’s move in South Korea is to bolster the effect of
extra  government spending , and may help to increase full-year
growth to 2.8 percent from the BOK’s April forecast of 2.6
percent, Kim told reporters at a briefing in Seoul. Lawmakers
approved a 17.3 trillion won ($15.9 billion) extra budget this
week to support the economy and the central bank last month
boosted special loans for small firms.  Kim’s officials voted six-to-one today. Last month, when
 interest rates  were left unchanged, the split was four-to-three,
the deepest division since 2006. He said that Japan’s
“aggressive monetary easing” is having a significant effect on
South Korea.  Weak Yen  “What we’re seeing is another round of global easing from
Japan to Europe and South Korea needs similar action,” Lee Sang Jae, a Seoul-based economist at Hyundai Securities Co., said
before the announcement. “The rate cut will help the nation’s
fight against a weak yen.”  South Korea’s economy grew the most in two years in the
first quarter as the government front-loaded spending. At the
same time, industrial output fell 2.6 percent in March from the
previous month, the biggest decline in a year.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said May 6
that policy makers are ready to lower interest rates again if
needed after reducing them to a record low. The  Reserve Bank  of
Australia cut to a record this week, and India made a reduction
last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  