-- Soutine $18 Million Pastry Chef Leads Christie’s Auction
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2013-05-09T03:50:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/soutine-pastry-chef-fetches-18-million-at-christies-nyc.html
Christie’s  New York  rang up $158.5
million in sales of Impressionist and modern art last night in a
brisk yet lackluster auction.  The tally surpassed the presale low target of $131.4
million but fell short of the $190.5 million high estimate and
 Sotheby’s (BID)  $230 million tally in the same categories Tuesday
night. Of the 47 lots offered, all but three found buyers.  “This was generally a sale that didn’t have any stars,”
said Phyllis Hattis, a private  art dealer  in  Manhattan . “There
wasn’t any excitement to the art.”  While Sotheby’s the previous night had as its top lot  Paul
Cezanne ’s “Les Pommes” fetching $41.6 million, Christie’s had
Chaim Soutine’s “Le Petit Patissier,” which went for a little
more than $18 million.  The price fell within the presale estimate of $16 million
to $22 million, while exceeding Soutine’s previous auction
record of $17.2 million, set in 2007 at Sotheby’s.  The work sold on a single bid by Xin Li, Christie’s deputy
chairman of Asian business development, representing an unnamed
client on the phone.  Painted around 1927, the work has been in the same
collection since 1977. A third party provided an undisclosed
guarantee, ensuring that the painting would sell.  An expected highlight, Andre Derain’s 1905 painting
“Madame Matisse au Kimono,” which had a presale estimate of
$15 million to $20 million, failed to attract a single bid.  Flushed Faces  An Egon Schiele painting, depicting the artist and his
model and consigned by the Neue Galerie in New York, did better.
It saw bidding rise quickly from $2.8 million to $10 million
($11.3 million with fees). The winners, a couple in the sales
room, looked flushed and excited with their purchase.  Marc Chagall  continued his strong performance from Tuesday
night at Sotheby’s where a work on paper sold for $4.8 million.
Last night his 1926 circus scene, “Les Trois Acrobates,”
fetched $13 million, surpassing the high presale estimate of $9
million. It was the highest price for the artist since 2007. The
acrobats came from the same collection as the Soutine’s pastry
chef, according to Christie’s.  Amedeo Modigliani’s portrait of a young Jewish woman, “La
Juive,” surged to $6.8 million, more than doubling its high
estimate. The winner sat in the room filming the bidding war on
his telephone. After placing the winning bid, he looked into the
camera lens and grinned.  After  Claude Monet ’s 1885 painting “Chemin” sold for $5.2
million to Addison Fine Arts gallery, loud “woohoos” erupted
in a sky box.  New Buyers  No cheers greeted the action on  Henri Matisse ’s “Jeune
Femme Assise en Robe Grise,” which went for $4.9 million, just
short of the low estimate of $5 million. (Prices include the
buyer’s fee; estimates don’t.)  “It’s very hard to get the most stellar Monet or Matisse
these days, so buyers are looking for the best within what’s
available,” said Suzanne Gyorgy, global head of art advising
and finance at Citi Private Bank. “There are a lot of new
buyers from emerging economies in the Impressionist market,
which is historically the entry point into collecting once they
look beyond the regional artists or reach a level of wealth when
they can afford a $1 million picture.”  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars,  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on  technology .  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 