-- South Africa Yields Plunge to Record as Rate-Cut Pressure Mounts
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w   a n d   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-05-09T14:47:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/south-africa-bonds-gain-for-third-day-as-rand-little-changed.html
South African bond yields plunged to a
record as the manufacturing and mining industries unexpectedly
contracted, adding to speculation that the central bank will cut
interest rates.  Mining production, which accounts for more than half of
South  Africa ’s exports, fell 3.5 percent in March from a year
earlier, while  manufacturing  shrank 2.2 percent, Statistics
South Africa said in separate reports today. Reserve Bank
Governor Gill Marcus has left the central bank’s benchmark repo
rate unchanged at 5 percent since a surprise 50 basis-point cut
in July. Forward-rate  agreements  are pricing in an 80 percent
probability of monetary policy easing this year.  “Traders are increasingly expecting a rate cut,” Gareth Robertson, a member of  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) ’s institutional flow
sales team, said by phone from Johannesburg. “People are still
looking at the global situation and building expectations.”  Yields on 10.5 percent bonds due December 2026 dropped 15
basis points, or 0.15 percentage point, to 6.60 percent by 4:44
p.m. in Johannesburg. Forward-rate  agreements  starting next
February fell six basis points to 4.75 percent, 38 basis points
below the Johannesburg interbank  agreed  rate. The rand gained
0.2 percent to 8.9920 per dollar.  Rising unemployment and the mining and manufacturing slump
are pressuring Marcus to bolster an economy struggling to
recover from lower commodity prices, waning demand for exports
from  Europe  and labor unrest. The Reserve Bank of  Australia  cut
its main rate May 7 to a record, while European Central Bank
President Mario Draghi said May 6 that further rate cuts are
possible after reducing them to an all-time low last week.  ‘Under Pressure’  Factory output in Africa’s largest economy declined after
revised contraction of 2.8 percent in February, Pretoria-based
Statistics South Africa said. The median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey of 14 economists was 1.8 percent growth. Mining
production, which was estimated by economists to have increased
4 percent in March, slid from 7 percent in February as gold,
copper, coal output declined.  The production-side of the “economy is under a lot of
pressure,”  Kevin Lings , an economist at Stanlib Asset
Management Ltd., said by phone from Johannesburg. “If you
combine that with the global environment, with central banks
globally cutting rates, it would suggest that the Reserve bank
has scope to cut. This will certainly give the Reserve Bank a
lot of debating points.”  Stanlib Asset Management, which manages the equivalent of
$50 billion, maintains interest rates will remain on hold all
through next year, he said. The Monetary Policy Committee meets
on May 23 to review borrowing costs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net ; 