-- Spanish Industrial Production Decline Slows in Sign of Recovery
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2013-05-09T07:14:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/spanish-industrial-production-decline-slows-in-sign-of-recovery.html
Spanish  industrial output  declined
less than economists expected in March, suggesting that the
recession in the euro area’s fourth-largest economy is abating.  Production at factories, refineries and mines adjusted for
the number of working days fell 0.6 percent from a year earlier,
after declining a revised 6.9 percent in February, the National
Statistics Institute in Madrid said in an e-mailed statement
today. That’s the smallest decline since Prime Minister  Mariano
Rajoy  took office in 2011 and compares with economists’ forecast
for a 5.3 percent decline, according to six estimates in a
Bloomberg News  survey .  Rajoy is seeking to end a six-year slump  after
implementing the toughest austerity measures in the nation’s
democratic history and changing labor rules to enable companies
to cut payroll costs. He won approval from the European
Commission to slow cuts in the European Union’s largest budget
 deficit  last month.  The yield on Spain’s  10-year benchmark bond  fell below 4
percent on May 3 for the first time since October 2010 after the
 European Central Bank  cut its benchmark lending rate to a record
low 0.5 percent to rekindle growth in the 17-nation euro region.
The yield was little changed at 9:02 a.m. today, trading at 4.09
percent.  International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said she supported Rajoy’s  mid-term budget plan 
presented on April 26, increasing pressure on officials in
Brussels and Berlin to back away from austerity-first policies.
Both the commission and the IMF forecast Spanish unemployment
will peak this year as output contracts 1.5 percent before the
economy will return to growth in 2014.  Ford Motor Co. and  General Motors Co. (GM)  conducted talks with
unions to freeze wages after new passenger car registrations for
March dropped 14 percent in Spain and 10 percent in the EU. At
 Schneider Electric SA (SU) , the world’s biggest maker of low- and
medium-voltage equipment, sales growth in southern  Europe  will
“very complicated,” Chief Financial Officer Emmanuel Babeau
said on April 23.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  