-- St. Jude’s Durata Lead Shown to Be Safe in Analysis
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-05-09T15:16:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/st-jude-s-durata-lead-shown-to-be-safe-in-analysis.html
St. Jude Medical Inc. (STJ) ’s Durata lead,
the wire used to connect life-saving defibrillators to the
heart, proved safe and reliable in an independent review that
should ease concerns about its use, researchers said.  Questions lingered about the Durata leads since an older
version known as Riata was pulled off the market in 2010 because
the internal wires could break through the protective coating.
While no evidence showed a similar problem with Durata, which
has stronger insulation, some doctors have shied away from using
it.  Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  and  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX)  have increased
their share of the $6 billion market, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The review of more than 11,000 Durata wires presented at
the  Heart Rhythm Society  meeting in Denver today found
mechanical failures in just 38 cases. There were no problems
seen with wires coming out of their casing, said  John Cairns , a
cardiologist at the University of British Columbia. The results
bolster two smaller studies presented yesterday that found the
leads performed as well as the current market leaders.  “It looks very reassuring for someone who has one of these
leads,” Cairns said in a telephone interview. “Their chance of
having a mechanical failure by five years is about six in 1,000,
and most are picked up by routine monitoring,” he said.  It’s too soon to know whether the risks will increase after
six or seven years, Cairns said. At the five-year mark, however,
the risk with Durata is significantly lower than what was seen
with the older Riata devices, he said.  St. Jude, based in  St. Paul ,  Minnesota , asked the
Population Health Research Institute at Hamilton Health Sciences
and  McMaster University  in Ontario to conduct an independent
review of three databases enrolling patients with Durata or
newer Riata ST devices coated with the new Optim insulation. The
researchers examined every reported failure with the devices for
patients in the registries through February 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  