-- Sun Hung Kai ‘Optimistic’ on Hong Kong Central Office Market
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2013-05-09T02:59:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/sun-hung-kai-optimistic-on-hong-kong-central-office-market-1-.html
Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , Hong
Kong’s biggest developer by value, says it’s “optimistic”
about the city’s Central business area office market even after
rents last year dropped the most since the 2008 credit crisis.  “We don’t have big renewals coming up, and we’re not
seeing major tenants giving up large chunks of space,” Lo King-wai, general manager at the developer’s agency arm, said at a
seminar hosted by Bloomberg in Hong Kong yesterday. “If demand
comes back, then vacancy can be taken up very quickly.”  Banks and brokerages, faced with slowing corporate finance
activity, have since last year given up space in Central for
other districts, where rents can be two-thirds lower. As of
January, financial services companies accounted for 49 percent
of prime office tenants in Central, according to data compiled
by CBRE Group Inc., the world’s biggest commercial realtor.  Central rents fell about 15 percent in 2012, the biggest
full-year decline since 2008, according to figures compiled by
Colliers International.  Even with the departures, occupancy at Sun Hung Kai’s two
biggest Central office buildings, One and Two International
Finance Centre, stand at 99 percent and 93 percent respectively,
Lo said. The average vacancy rate in prime offices buildings in
the district is now about 5 percent, Craig Shute, senior
managing director at CBRE, said at yesterday’s briefing.  While banks have been shrinking, their space in the
district may be taken over by expanding mainland Chinese
companies and international retailers, Shute said.  ‘Biggest Buck’  “That’s the beauty of Central,” said Eric Wong, chairman
of property investor Bricks & Mortar Management. “It’s always
desirable for people who can make the biggest buck. As the banks
start to shrink, you will see other people come in.”  New office supply in  Hong Kong  will fall about a third
short of total new demand by 2020, CBRE said in a report in
October.  Average office rents in Hong Kong will rise about 5 percent
this year, said Sun Hung Kai’s Lo.  Office rents in Central, the second highest in the world
according to Cushman & Wakefield Inc., will be little changed in
2013 as those elsewhere in the city will gain about 5 percent to
7 percent this year, said Karl Choi, Hong Kong-based analyst at
Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch & Co. unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  