-- Suspense Over Rafsanjani as Iran Election Hopefuls Sign Up
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-05-09T13:55:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/suspense-over-rafsanjani-as-iran-election-hopefuls-sign-up-2-.html
As more than 190 candidates signed up
to stand in Iran’s presidential election for a successor to
 Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , media attention is focusing on a potential
runner who hasn’t registered.  Ex-President Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani’s family and
supporters sent out mixed signals about whether he’s preparing
to put his name forward. Rafsanjani, one of Iran’s best-connected politicians, has allies among conservatives while he
also expressed sympathy with the opposition that emerged in 2009
during post-vote protests.  Effat Marashi, Rafsanjani’s wife, said yesterday that her
husband will “definitely” not take part in the race,  according
to  Tehran-based daily Shargh. In  Etemaad  newspaper, though, his
brother Mohammad Hashemi was quoted as saying that the chances
of a bid have increased “following requests made to him,” even
though Rafsanjani had been set on staying out of the race.  With  Iran  engaged in a standoff with the U.S. over its
nuclear program, and the economy feeling the pain of economic
sanctions, the Islamic republic’s clerical rulers have signaled
they aim to avoid a repeat of the unrest that followed the last
election four years ago.  Protests broke out after Ahmadinejad was declared the
winner, amid accusations that Mir Hossein Mousavi, a candidate
backed by reformists, was deprived of victory through ballot
fraud. The authorities clamped down on demonstrations, leaving
several people dead and arresting hundreds.  Past ‘Errors’  Some 144 presidential hopefuls had signed up by yesterday,
the  Interior Ministry  said on its  website . Another 48 registered
this morning, bringing the total to 192, according to  state
television . Registration ends on May 11. Iran’s Guardian
Council, half of whose members are clerics nominated by Supreme
Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , vets all candidates and usually
reduces the field to less than 10.  This year, the council will restrict the race to
politicians who “in their hearts have a belief” in the Islamic
Republic and its constitution, said spokesman Abbas Ali
Kadkhodaei, Etemaad reported on May 2. He added that “perhaps
some errors have been committed in the past.”  Rafsanjani is among the founders of the Islamic republic
and was its president from 1989 to 1997. He sought to regain the
post in the 2005 election, losing to Ahmadinejad.  ‘Imaginary Statistics’  As inflation surged and Iran’s currency slid under the
pressure of sanctions, the former president has criticized the
incumbent’s policies. A reduction in subsidies have failed to
boost local production and only caused prices to rise, while the
government has sought to conceal the impact with “imaginary
statistics” about the economy, Rafsanjani said in February.  Rafsanjani is “convinced” that should he decide to run he
will get approval from the Guardian Council, the Kayhan
newspaper, whose head is appointed by Khamenei, wrote in an
editorial yesterday. If Rafsanjani isn’t signing up it’s because
of concern that he won’t have backing from voters, not from the
guardians, the daily’s Editor-in-Chief Hossein Shariatmadari
wrote. “This is the field he is scared of entering into.”  Rafsanjani said this week that he was assessing the
situation. Running without Khamenei’s blessing would be
“counterproductive,” he told an audience of university
students in Tehran, Press TV reported May 6.  One candidate who has signed up is former nuclear
negotiator Hassan Rohani, who has ties to both Rafsanjani and
another ex-president, Mohammad Khatami.  Khatami Out  Khatami, who stepped down in 2005 after two terms during
which he eased restrictions on the media and dress codes for
women, said the situation wasn’t ripe for him to run this time.
He expressed support for a Rafsanjani candidacy, saying his
participation would be “a victory for all,” according to the
 Tehran Times .  Other possible front-runners such as Ali Akbar Velayati,
Khamenei’s foreign policy adviser and a lifelong loyalist, and
Tehran Mayor Mohammad-Baqer Qalibaf have yet to sign up.
Ahmadinejad has been promoting his close aide, Esfandiar Rahim
Mashaei, in recent governmental trips and is seen as grooming
him for the race though neither has clarified his intentions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  