-- Sweden Can’t Ignore Excessive Move in Krona Market, Borg Says
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-05-09T09:42:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/sweden-can-t-ignore-excessive-move-in-krona-market-borg-says.html
Swedish Finance Minister  Anders Borg 
said the country would need to act should additional krona
strength add to pain for exporters, sticking by comments made
earlier this week that drew fire from opposition politicians.  “Given the slowdown in European markets, for us to stay
competitive we need to think also about the currency,” Borg
said today in a Bloomberg Television interview in  Cape Town ,
 South Africa . “The market should set the price of the currency,
it’s a free floating currency, but we can’t ignore if there’s a
potential risk for excessive movements in the markets.”  The krona has soared 28 percent against the euro since the
end of 2008, sparking calls from exporters to stem its
appreciation. While policy makers earlier this year said they
were unconcerned about the ascent, they are now adjusting their
stance as the currency has emerged as the second-strongest in
the world, after the New Zealand dollar. Riksbank Governor
Stefan Ingves acknowledged last month the strong krona had
undermined the bank’s efforts to achieve its inflation target.  Borg earlier this week in an interview from Abuja,  Nigeria ,
said the krona could potentially become an issue for the
Riksbank, comments he defended today while voicing his support
for the bank’s independence. The opposition  Social Democrats 
yesterday criticized the minister for potentially interfering
with the bank’s independence.  Cutting Forecasts  “I strongly support the central bank’s independence but we
also have to have a discussion about where the currency is
heading,” he said.  Borg last month cut his economic forecasts for 2014, citing
the krona’s impact on exports and the labor market. The Riksbank
on April 17 said it needs to delay monetary tightening plans
until the second half of 2014 as it forecast price growth won’t
reach its 2 percent target until 2015.  “I do think the krona is potentially becoming a little bit
of a problem, so I think we have to watch it very carefully to
see where it goes,” Borg said today. “I don’t think it’s
dramatically off fair value today but if continues to move and
we are becoming a safe haven it could potentially be a
problem.”  Sweden generates half its economic output from exports, of
which 70 percent are destined for  Europe . The AAA rated nation
emerged as a haven from Europe’s debt crisis last year, only to
watch its currency appreciate more than most of its developed-world peers. The krona’s 6.6 percent gain over the past 12
months is the best performance in a basket of 10 developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg in the period, after the
 New Zealand dollar .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net 
NI NIGERIA
NI SWEDE
NI POL
NI GOV
NI ECO
NI BUD
NI INF
NI LABOR
NI SWECO
NI FX
NI BON
NI FRX 