-- U.K. Industrial Output Rises More Than Forecast on Energy
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-05-09T09:48:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/u-k-industrial-output-rises-more-than-forecast-on-energy-1-.html
U.K. industrial production  rose more
than economists forecast in March as cold weather boosted demand
for electricity and gas.  Output increased 0.7 percent from February, when it gained
0.9 percent, the  Office for National Statistics  said today in
 London . The median forecast of 31 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a gain of 0.2 percent. Electricity and gas surged
2.4 percent, the most since October. The data also showed that
production increased 0.2 percent in the first quarter, matching
an estimate in last month’s gross domestic product report.  Britain’s economy grew 0.3 percent in the  three months
through March  and surveys suggest that the recovery may have
continued into this quarter. Bank of England policy makers
meeting today will probably maintain their  target for asset
purchases  at 375 billion pounds ($583 billion) as they weigh
risks to the rebound from the contraction in the fourth quarter.  The data “suggest that the economic recovery gained some
momentum towards the end of the first quarter,” said Samuel Tombs, an economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in London. Still,
“we doubt that this strong growth will be maintained. With the
 euro zone  still deep in recession, any recovery in the export-dependent industrial sector this year is likely to be limp at
best.”  The pound advanced against the dollar and the euro. It rose
0.2 percent to $1.5559 as of 10:31 a.m. London time and was 0.3
percent stronger at 84.43 pence against the euro. The yield on
the 10-year U.K. government bond was little changed at 1.77
percent.  Manufacturing Growth  The increase in electricity and gas production was partly
due to the weather, according to the statistics office, which
said it was the coldest March since 1962. From a year earlier,
electricity and gas jumped 10.9 percent, the most since April
2008. Mining and quarrying fell 2 percent in March from
February, while oil and gas extraction dropped 1.8 percent.  Manufacturing (UKMPIMOM)  rose 1.1 percent in March, exceeding the
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey for an increase of 0.3
percent. Out of 13 categories in manufacturing, eight declined
in March from February, while five increased. The gain on the
month was led by basic metals and metal products as well as
computer and electrical equipment.  Cambridge, England-based  CSR Plc (CSR) , a maker of products for
the automotive navigation industry and digital cameras, said
yesterday first-quarter revenue grew 5 percent from a year
earlier and was ahead of its expectations.  Euro-Area Pressure  In the three months through March, manufacturing fell 0.3
percent, the ONS said. From a year earlier, both manufacturing
and total industrial production fell 1.4 percent in March.  Gains in production may be constrained by turmoil in the
euro area, Britain’s biggest trading partner. The 17-nation
region will shrink 0.3 percent this year, according to
International Monetary Fund forecasts.  Surveys by  Markit Economics  published this month showed
that services growth accelerated in April, while slumps in
manufacturing and construction eased.  The  Bank of England  will probably vote for no change to
quantitative easing today, according to 43 of 44 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. Officials will also leave the  key
interest rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent, according to a
separate poll. The central bank will announce the decision at
noon in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 Jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  