-- U.K. Reviews Riot Definition to Aid Insurance Claims
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-05-09T13:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/u-k-reviews-riot-definition-to-aid-insurance-claims.html
The U.K. government said it will
review the Riot Damages Act to examine the criteria for when
compensation is due and prevent fraudulent insurance claims two
years after the nation’s worst riots since the 1980s.  “The Riot Damages Act was written more than a century ago
and so it is only right that we take action to ensure it is fit
for purpose,” Policing Minister Damian Green said in an e-mailed statement today. “The aftermath of the 2011 riots showed
the need for improvements to speed up the payment of
compensation to those who need it and weed out frivolous
claims.”  August 2011 saw riots in  London , Manchester and the
Midlands. Gasoline bombs were thrown and vehicles, homes and
businesses were torched. The unrest began on Aug. 6 in the north
London suburb of Tottenham, after a local black man, Mark
Duggan, was shot and killed by police who stopped his car
intending to make an arrest. Rioting and looting spread across
the capital and further afield for three days, with police later
describing it as “copycat criminal activity” and political
leaders saying there was no link to the shooting.  The Association of British Insurers said 200 million pounds
($310 million) was paid out in damages after the riots. The vast
majority of claims have been decided on, the Home Office said.
Only 2 percent of uninsured claims have not been settled and
only 9 percent of payments to insurance companies from police
and crime commissioners are outstanding.  The insurers’ organization welcomed the government
announcement.  “Those claiming under the act faced an overly bureaucratic
process, inconsistent approach and unacceptable delays,” Aidan
Kerr, head of property at the ABI, said in an e-mailed
statement. “We need to see the Riot Damages Act modernized with
a more streamlined and standardized process to ensure those most
vulnerable have the reassurance it will help them in what is
inevitably a distressing time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at  kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  