-- U.S. Company Credit Swaps Rise as Central Banks’ Actions Weighed
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-05-09T13:39:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/u-s-company-credit-swaps-rise-as-central-banks-actions-weighed.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk
increased for a second day as investors weighed the abilities of
central banks worldwide to bolster economic growth.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses or
to speculate on creditworthiness, rose 0.8 basis point to a mid-price of 69.8 basis points at 9:37 a.m. in New York, according
to prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the biggest increase in
more than a week.  The European Central Bank will refrain from cutting its
interest rate again until at least 2015, according to the median
of 18 forecasts in a monthly Bloomberg survey of economists,
while the Bank of England left its stimulus program unchanged
today. In the U.S., applications for unemployment payments
decreased by 4,000 to 323,000 in the week ended May 4, the
fewest since January 2008, Labor Department figures showed
today.  It is “disturbing” that “more and more is being expected
of central banks,” Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
President Charles Plosser said in an interview with  Tom Keene 
and Sara Eisen on Bloomberg television’s “Surveillance” today.
“We are expected to solve all the world’s problems. Our fiscal
authorities are not doing a very good job in any country.”  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  