-- U.S. Poor Express Strong Values, Not Self-Pity
-- B y   A n d r e w   K o h u t   a n d   M i c h a e l   D i m o c k
-- 2013-05-09T22:09:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/u-s-poor-express-strong-values-not-self-pity.html
The booming  stock market  is of little
solace to middle-class Americans, who continue to express
concern about their financial security and the overall condition
of the  U.S. economy . The poor are even more bearish, surveys
show.  In fact, after falling significantly behind in the Great
Recession, less-affluent Americans have  continued  to lose ground
in what has technically been the economic recovery.  In the years since the recession officially ended in June
2009, the mean net worth of households in the upper 7 percent of
the wealth distribution rose by an estimated 28 percent, while
the mean net worth of households in the lower 93 percent dropped
by 4 percent, according to a new  Pew Research Center  analysis of
recently released Census Bureau data.  Yet even in the depths of the recession and the difficult
recovery, middle-class and lower-income Americans remained
optimistic about the future of the country and their own long-term personal prospects. They acknowledged the truth of rising
inequality and expressed frustration over what they saw as a
political and economic system that gave unfair advantages to
those who were already ahead. There was no sign, however, that
class resentments were increasing.  In a newly released  report  for the  Council on Foreign
Relations ’ Renewing America series, we found little indication
that beliefs in the efficacy of hard work, individualism and
potential for personal progress have eroded in response to the
struggling recovery of the past four years.  Enduring Optimism  This finding is contrary to worries  expressed  by the social
scientist Charles Murray and others that American civic culture
is at risk of breaking down at the lower end of the
socioeconomic spectrum. In his  book  “Coming Apart,” Murray
argues that poorer Americans are losing social bonds to hard
work, family values and community.  Yet over the past 25 years, value trends  find  no widening
of the division between the upper middle class and working class
with respect to self-confidence, individualism and a sense of
personal empowerment. Poorer and richer Americans differ on
questions of opportunity and the role of government, yet these
gaps have neither grown nor shrunk since the late 1980s.  Those in the lowest quartile of  household income  -- earning
less than $20,000 a year -- are twice as likely as those in the
highest quartile to say that “hard work offers little guarantee
of success” (46 percent versus 23 percent). But that  gap  is no
wider today than it was 25 years ago.  Middle and lower-class Americans continue to see their
lives as better than those of their parents, and they expect
that their children will be better off than they are.  When it comes to views of the free market, seven in 10
Americans across income and educational lines say the strength
of the U.S. today is mostly based on the success of American
business.  What about the effects of hard times on U.S. civic culture?
Statistics on marriage and divorce, single parenting, disability
rates and personal bankruptcies reflect many challenges that
working-class Americans face in the modern economy. But any
inference that these trends point to an erosion of core values
isn’t supported by  polls .  Rather, Pew surveys  find  no evidence that lower-income and
less-well-educated Americans value patriotism, religion or
family any less than they ever have.  Work Ethic  If anything, less-affluent Americans are more convinced of
the importance of work than are more economically successful
Americans. A 2008 Pew study found 69 percent of low-income
Americans agreeing that “being successful in a career” was very
important to them personally, compared with 58 percent of upper-income Americans.  Lower-income Americans also place greater importance on a
wage earner being able to support a family financially than do
affluent workers. Poorer Americans also  register  a stronger
commitment to religion than upper-class Americans do -- a
division that has neither widened nor narrowed over the past 25
years.  Most high-, middle- and low-income citizens share the same
concerns about becoming too dependent on government, and have
the same worries about the state of the American work ethic.  Nor are there substantial class divides when it comes to
volunteerism and a sense of community. Roughly half of both
high-income (54 percent) and low-income (56 percent) Americans
say that doing volunteer work or donating to charity is very
important to them personally, and big majorities of both groups
say that everyone has a duty to be involved in community
activities to address local issues.  One of  Charles Murray ’s most scathing  assessments  of
working-class values was on the decline of marriage as an
institution. Marriage-dissolution rates are higher and out-of-marriage births have grown substantially among the poor, while
remaining lower among the wealthy. Yet lower-income Americans
are about as likely as those with higher incomes to rate
marriage and children as very important to them. Roughly the
same percentage of upper- and lower-income Americans with
children report having family meals together.  The point here isn’t to understate the financial concerns
and burdens on poor people and the middle class as they have
weathered hard times. Nor is it to debate a long-standing
contention of many economists and others that lower-income
Americans are deluding themselves about their future prospects.  Our  analyses  simply indicate that people’s difficulties
haven’t undermined their values and long-term optimism. And
among poor Americans specifically, there is little evidence that
they feel sorry for themselves, or see themselves as
economically doomed or morally adrift.  ( Andrew Kohut  is the founding director and former president
of the Pew Research Center.  Michael Dimock  is the director of
the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press. They are
co-authors of “ Resilient American Values : Optimism in an Era of
Growing Inequality and Economic Difficulty,” part of the
 Renewing America  series of the Council on Foreign Relations. The
opinions expressed are their own.)  To contact the writer on this article:
Andrew Kohut at  akohut@pewresearch.org   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  