-- Hungary Seeks Austerity-Free Way to Remove Budget Shackle
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-05-09T16:19:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/hungary-seeks-austerity-free-way-to-remove-budget-shackle.html
Hungary is seeking to avoid austerity
measures as it works to end nine years of European Union budget
monitoring and remove the threat of funding cuts, government and
ruling party officials said.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  asked Economy Minister  Mihaly Varga  to work out measures that are “in line with the
government’s economic and social policies” and are also
acceptable to the EU, Cabinet spokesman Andras Giro-Szasz said
today, according to MTI state news service.  The ruling party rejects the “austerity favored by
Brussels,” Antal Rogan, Fidesz’s parliamentary group leader,
said after a meeting of the party’s executive committee, which
includes Orban, the party’s website reported.  Orban is seeking to avoid austerity as Fidesz leads in
opinion polls about a year before elections. He is also seeking
to exit from the excessive-deficit procedure that threatens EU
funding cuts. The grants account for 95 percent of
infrastructure development in the country.  “The government is very serious about exiting the EDP,
it’s been one of the main economic policy goals of the last
three years,” Gergely Toth, an analyst at Buda-Cash Brokerhaz
Zrt., said by phone today. Orban wants to show that he
“inflicts the least possible pain on the population. That won’t
change.”  The forint gained 0.1 percent to 292.88 per euro by 5:36
p.m. in Budapest near its strongest since February. It has
gained 1.1 percent in the past five days, the fourth-best
performance among 31 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  ‘New Measures’  Hungary implementing “new measures” would ensure that the
budget gap stays within the EU limit of 3 percent of economic
output this year and next and may allow the country to exit the
excessive-deficit procedure for the first time since joining the
trading bloc in 2004, EU Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said on May 3. The shortfall may be 3
percent of output this year and 3.3 percent next year, the
European Commission said.  Hungary has “one or two weeks” to take budget steps if it
wants the EU executive to take them into account in its May 29
recommendation on whether the country should be able to exit the
budget procedure, Economy Ministry State Secretary Gabor Orban
said in an interview published in the Figyelo weekly today.
Hungary needs to save 100 billion forint ($447 million)
according to EU estimates, he said.  The government failing to take budget steps by mid-May will
delay an EU decision on Hungary’s exit from the bloc’s budget
shackles to autumn, Figyelo said, citing State Secretary Orban.
 Hungary  is eyeing an exit from the deficit procedure “at the
end of the second half” of this year, Giro-Szasz said,
according to MTI.  Budget Cuts  Hungary passed multiple rounds of fiscal cuts last year to
prevent the loss of EU funds, reducing the deficit to 1.9
percent of GDP. The government has “essentially satisfied” the
requirements to exit the EDP with its fiscal consolidation,
Rogan said, according to the Fidesz website.  The government predicts that the economy will emerge from
its second recession in four years in 2013. While the government
forecasts 0.7 percent growth this year, Prime Minister Orban
said this week that GDP may rise 1 percent. That compares with
an EU forecast for 0.2 percent growth.  Orban has relied on the nationalization of private pension
funds and extraordinary levies on energy, retail and
telecommunications companies as well as  Europe ’s highest bank
tax to close budget holes. The government has said lobbying by
companies hurt by tax levies and energy-price cuts are
responsible for the EU’s objections to Hungarian policies.  Backing for Orban’s Fidesz party rose to 29 percent among
eligible voters in April from 27 percent the previous month,
according to a Median poll published May 6. That compares with
13 percent support for the Socialists, the biggest opposition
party. Median polled 1,200 adults between April 19 and 23 and
the results had a margin of error of 3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  