-- Tunisian Tied to Accused Canada Rail Plotter Charged
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-05-09T19:12:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/tunisian-tied-to-accused-canada-rail-plotter-charged.html
A Tunisian linked to the man accused
of an al-Qaeda-supported plot to derail a Canadian passenger
train was charged by the U.S. with visa fraud to facilitate an
act of international terrorism.  The Tunisian, Ahmed Abassi, traveled in mid-March from
 Canada  to the U.S., where he met with Chiheb Esseghaier, who was
arrested last month by Canadian authorities in the train plot,
Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said today in a statement.
Esseghaier was charged with planning to derail a VIA Rail train
in an attack authorities said was supported by al-Qaeda members
in  Iran .  Abassi was under surveillance by law enforcement agents at
all times he was in the U.S. and had regular contact with an
undercover agent from the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
according to Bharara.  During conversations with Abassi and Esseghaier, which were
recorded by the undercover agent, “Abassi discussed his desire
to engage in terrorist acts against targets in the United States
and other countries, and his intention to provide support and
funding to organizations engaged in terrorist activities,”
Bharara said.  ‘Like-Minded’  Abassi voiced support for the al-Nusrah Front, which the
U.S. State Department says is an alias for al-Qaeda in  Iraq ,
prosecutors said. Abassi also discussed recruiting others to
engage in terrorist plots and at one point talked about a number
of people “whom he described as like-minded and who, in his
view, would be willing to engage in terrorist activity,”
prosecutors said.  Abassi, who is scheduled to appear before a federal judge
in Manhattan today, is charged with two counts of knowingly
making false statements in an application to the immigration
authorities for a green card and work visa to facilitate an act
of international terrorism. Each count carries a term of as long
as 25 years in prison.  The case is U.S. v. Ahmed Abassi, 13-CR-304, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  