-- United Engineers Raises Offer in Final Bid for Jaguar Dealer WBL
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2013-05-09T12:50:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/united-engineers-raises-offer-in-final-bid-for-jaguar-dealer-wbl.html
United Engineers Ltd. (UEM)  made a final bid
of S$4.50 a share for  WBL (WBL)  Corp., raising it by 8.4 percent a
month after a financial adviser to the Singapore-based car
distributor said the previous offer wasn’t fair.  The revised bid values WBL, which owns the Jaguar and
Bugatti dealerships, at S$1.25 billion ($1 billion), according
to Bloomberg calculations. United Engineers, which had offered
to pay S$4.15 a share in cash on March 12, said it won’t be
extending after the latest closing date of May 29.  The company is bidding for WBL because the “recurring
 income ” from the luxury-car dealerships would counter the
choppiness from real estate and construction, which are driven
by the timing of contracts, United Engineers Chief Executive
Officer Jackson Yap said in an interview in March.  The latest bid “demonstrates our seriousness to bring our
offer to a successful close,” Yap said in a statement to the
stock exchange today.  KPMG Corporate Finance Pte, a financial adviser to WBL’s
independent  directors , said on April 10 that United Engineer’s
S$4.15-a-share offer is “not fair,” based on a review of the
financial terms.  WBL has dealerships in six Asian markets, where it sells
Volvos in  China , Bentleys in  Indonesia , and Bugattis in
Singapore, according its  website .  Shangri-La  United Engineers, founded in 1912 as an engineering company
that helped build Singapore’s historic supreme court and
Shangri-La hotel, has been scouting for businesses to broaden
its revenue sources, Yap said. Its 2012  net income  dropped to
S$72 million from S$269 million a year ago, when it completed
the sale of its properties in the city.  The property development unit contributed almost nothing to
its revenue in 2012, compared with about 65 percent previously,
the company said earlier this year.  Straits Trading Co. (STRTR)  increased its stake in WBL to 40
percent after buying stock from two shareholders, emerging as
the biggest investor. It made a S$3.41-a-share offer for WBL,
prompting United Engineers’s bid at the end of January at S$4 a
share. The bid from Straits Trading, a 126-year-old  Singapore 
conglomerate that mines for tin and develops property, has since
lapsed.  WBL has property projects in five Chinese cities and also
sells Bentley and Jaguar vehicles in the city-state.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  