-- Turkish Airlines Doubling Fleet Pushes Out Order of Largest Jets
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-05-09T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/turkish-airlines-doubling-fleet-pushes-out-order-of-largest-jets.html
Turkish Airlines (THYAO) , which will more than
double its fleet by the start of next decade, said it’s delaying
a possible order for jumbo jets for at least two years as it
focuses on expanding its network with smaller airliners.  “We aren’t planning any this year, not next year or in the
years to come,” Chief Executive Temel Kotil said in an
interview in London yesterday about a possible order of Airbus
A380s or  Boeing Co. (BA)  747-8 jumbos. “We have built our fleet.”  Kotil is overseeing an expansion that includes the purchase
of 117 single-aisle planes from Airbus and 95 from Boeing, as he
bolsters the current fleet of 218 airliners to support a network
serving 225 airports around the globe. Turkish Air had said
previously that it was considering as many as six A380s to help
build Istanbul into a global hub, in what would have been a
boost to a model that’s struggled to pick up orders.  The company is preparing to sell bonds to help finance its
narrow-body orders, and is discussing the plan with rating
companies, while the timing and size of the issue has not been
determined, Kotil said. Turkish Airlines, 49 percent owned by
the government, hasn’t sold bonds in international markets and
doesn’t have a  credit rating .  Kotil’s purchase plans for the largest commercial airliners
in the market contrast with comments by Turkish Air Chairman
Hamdi Topcu, who said in an interview on April 17 that the
company will decide on buying Boeing 747-8 or A380s by the end
of this year. The carrier will also consider the purchase of
smaller A350 and Boeing 787 Dreamliners, Topcu said.  Struggling Jumbos  Boeing and Airbus have both struggled to bring home new
customers for their largest planes, with the U.S. company
announcing plans to clip the output of its latest 747 variant
because of slack demand. Airbus’s double-decker airliner missed
a company target of 30 new orders last year, and the European
manufacturer has said it wants to sell about 25 units in 2013.  The biggest plane in the Turkish Air fleet is the Boeing
777-300ER, which has about 330 seats, with deliveries stretching
to 2017. The wide-body line-up also includes Airbus A330s and
A340s, according to the carrier’s website.  Kotil said acquisitions are not part of his growth
strategy, as he focuses on internal expansion, hiring about
1,000 flight attendants every year. The company has about 2,500
pilots and 6,000 cabin crew at the moment, he said.  More Destinations  Turkish Airlines , which aims to fly to 205 international
and 38 domestic destinations by the end of this year, will
increase transit traffic to 70 percent of the international
total by 2020 from about 40 percent, Kotil said. By then, the
carrier wants to more than double the number of passengers it
carries to 100 million, he said.  The carrier will get a likely boost from a new airport in
Istanbul, as the main Ataturk airfield approaches its capacity
limit. A group of Turkish builders led by Limak Holding AS won
the bid last week to operate the site for 25 years, beating
three other parties with a 22.13 billion-euro ($29 billion)
offer.  Contrary to the carriers in the  Middle East , Turkish
Airlines has a domestic market to count on for a sizable portion
of its passengers. At the same time, Kotil said he doesn’t want
to rely too heavily on Turkish demand, and he’s added more
destinations in  Africa  and European cities including Marseille
and Nantes in  France  to draw in transfer passengers.  Kotil said he aims to keep the earnings margin at about 16
percent in coming years, based on earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization. Revenue this year will advance to
$9.7 billion from $8.3 billion in 2012, the company has said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in  London  at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  