-- Vestia Asks Court to Void $924 Million of Credit Suisse Swaps
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   D u n b a r
-- 2013-05-09T08:06:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/vestia-asks-court-to-void-924-million-of-credit-suisse-swaps.html
Stichting Vestia Groep, a Dutch
affordable-housing provider that nearly collapsed as a result of
losses on derivatives, asked a London court to void 700 hundred
million euros ($924 million) in  interest-rate swaps  after it was
sued by  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)   Credit Suisse should have known that the derivatives were
inappropriate trades conducted by a Vestia employee who breached
his duties to the company, Vestia said in court documents. The
organization said the former treasurer was arrested by Dutch
police as part of an investigation into swaps transactions.  “Each disputed transaction failed to hedge Vestia’s
legitimate exposure,” Vestia said in a December court filing in
London that was released last month.  Complex interest-rate derivatives that caused losses for
customers have turned into legal battles for the banks that sold
them. In  Italy , prosecutors are probing  Banca Monte dei Paschi
di Siena SpA’s  use of derivatives to hide losses, and more than
a half a dozen Italian municipalities are embroiled in  London 
lawsuits over the financial products.  “One can draw parallels with ill-advised transactions by
Italian local governments” said Michael Dempster, founder of
the University of Cambridge’s Centre for Financial Research.
“It starts with attempting to reduce costs and ends with a
derivative that blows up.”  Nine Banks  Vestia agreed to pay 2 billion euros to reach a settlement
with nine other banks in June 2012 after the organization froze
margin call payments on its 22 billion-euro notional portfolio
of money-losing derivatives. Credit Suisse refused to settle and
sued Vestia for 83 million euros in November in London. A trial
is scheduled for next year.  Adam Bradbery, a spokesman for Credit Suisse in London and
Vestia spokesman Ronald Florisson declined to comment beyond the
court filings.  Vestia says that all but two of its transactions with
Credit Suisse should be voided because they violated Vestia’s
statutes and were unsuitable as hedges.  The deals, which had a total notional amount of 850 million
euros and maturities of up to 50 years, were negotiated on
Vestia’s behalf by the company’s former treasurer Marcel de
Vries. The transactions were signed by Erik Staal, Vestia’s
former chief executive officer and chairman, Credit Suisse said
in a court filing.  Dutch Arrest  De Vries, who left Vestia in April 2012, was arrested by
Dutch prosecutors in relation to derivatives transactions at the
company, Vestia said in court documents. Staal, who isn’t under
investigation, resigned from Vestia in June 2012.  “Each of Mr. de Vries and Mr. Staal breached his duties
to Vestia,” the housing provider said in its court filing.  Ed van Liere, a lawyer at Wladimiroff Advocaten NV in The
Hague who represents de Vries, declined to comment. Staal’s
lawyer, Jurjen Lemstra, said his client isn’t a defendant in any
lawsuit and isn’t a suspect in criminal probes.  Credit Suisse said in a separate Feb. 1 court filing that
it didn’t “believe there was any wrongdoing involved in any of
the transactions.” The bank refused to join the other nine
counterparties in settling with Vestia “because it did not
consider that it would serve either its financial or
reputational interests.”  Vestia, which reported holding derivatives with a face
value of 22 billion euros in February 2012, started buying the
swaps from Credit Suisse in November 2010, according to a filing
by Credit Suisse. Three of the transactions involved Credit
Suisse paying Vestia above-market rate coupons of between 4.75
percent and 5 percent for a period of three years, according to
the documents. Euro swap rates at all maturities have been below
3 percent since September 2011.  Interest Payments  The purpose of the transactions was to offset high interest
payments that Vestia was making on fixed-rate loans, Credit
Suisse said in its court filing. After 2015, the coupons paid by
Credit Suisse would be computed according to a formula linked to
constant-maturity swap rates that likely would pay below-market
rates until maturity, according to calculations by Bloomberg.  Vestia also sold four derivatives to Credit Suisse in which
it received upfront payments while making a bet that long-term
interest rates wouldn’t decline.  The strategy fell apart in June 2012 because falling
interest rates resulted in the mark-to-market loss on the
contracts breaching 100 million euros, according to Credit
Suisse calculations, triggering a collateral call that Vestia
refused to pay.  Calculation Controversy  Vestia disputed Credit Suisse’s calculations, responding
in its Dec. 21 filing that because the contracts had a negative
value of no greater than 88 million euros at the time, the
threshold wasn’t breached. Vestia’s contracts with Credit Suisse
had a negative value of 115 million euros on June 1 according to
a review of court documents by Bloomberg LP’s BVAL derivatives
valuation unit.  Credit Suisse said in its court filing that the contracts
should be honored because Vestia officials were sophisticated
enough to understand the transactions, signed waivers and used
third-party products to price them. Vestia demonstrated its
familiarity with the derivatives by disclosing that it used
complex interest-rate products such as CMS structures,
cancellable swaps and knock-in collars in its 2009 and 2010
accounts, Credit Suisse said. Knock-in collars are interest-rate
derivatives that protect against high and low interest rates,
contingent on rates breaching a predetermined barrier.  The case is Credit Suisse International v. Stichting Vestia
Groep, High Court of Justice, Queen’s  Bench Division  (London).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Dunbar in London at 
 ndunbar1@bloomberg.net  