-- What Happened to Work?: Bloomberg Businessweek Opening Remarks
-- B y   P e t e r   C o y
-- 2013-05-09T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/what-happened-to-work-bloomberg-businessweek-opening-remarks.html
Joey Griffiths grew up in the western
 New York  town of Dunkirk and left home at 17. Now he’s 30 and
working as a bill collector in Jackson Heights, Queens. He has
bills of his own to pay. Says Griffiths: “I’m good at
collections because I understand what they’re going through.
Just surviving.”  You hear a lot of just-surviving talk on the sidewalks of
Jackson Heights, a polyglot neighborhood just south of LaGuardia
Airport. Rajesh, a limo driver who declined to give his last
name, says he’s barely scraping by in spite of driving or
waiting for fares at least 12 hours a day, seven days a week.
“One day ends, the next day is coming,” he says. Klaus Bauer,
a 24-year-old immigrant from  Cape Town ,  South Africa , is trying
with little success to make it in computer science. He’s
homeless. “Right now I might be moving somewhere,” says Bauer.
“Another city. Another state. Trying to find some seasonal
work, off the books. Get my own IT business together.”  For all the positivity about the April jobs report --
lowest  unemployment rate  in four years! -- the U.S. job market
remains dismal. One statistic makes the point: Just 58.6 percent
of American civilians aged 16 and up had jobs in April,
according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. That’s a lower
employment-to-population ratio than during the worst of the
2007-09 recession. Even though the jobless rate has fallen,
millions of people aren’t counted as unemployed because they’ve
stopped looking for work, or never started.  Little Effect  It’s time to stop and figure out what’s wrong. Politicians
and economists have been talking about high  unemployment  for
better than five years, to little effect. Some of the
explanations offered seem to border on rationalizations for why
nothing can be done. That’s not good enough. Extended
unemployment is not only a human tragedy for the jobless and
their families. It’s also a waste of human capital in a nation
that can ill afford to discard valuable resources.  The breakdown of the labor market can be blamed on either
supply or demand. Those who argue that the supply of labor is
the main problem say that many Americans simply aren’t qualified
for the jobs available. On May 7, the BLS reported that there
were more than 3.8 million  job openings  in the U.S. at the end
of March -- at a time when more than 11 million people were
looking for work.  More Education  One obvious fix is more education to cure the mismatch
between job seekers’ skills and employers’ needs. Schooling
clearly helps: The unemployment rate for college graduates in
April was just 3.9 percent, versus 11.6 percent for people with
less than a high school education. The  U.S. economy  thrived in
the 20th century when it had the world’s highest high school
graduation rates and has stagnated as other countries have
caught up, Harvard University economists Claudia Goldin and
Lawrence Katz argue in The Race Between Education and
Technology.  There’s little debate that education improves social
mobility.  Jon Miller , a  University of Michigan  political
scientist, says his father worked on the railroad and his mother
in a shoe factory. He made sure his own kids got more education
than his parents had. His son is a tenured astrophysicist, his
daughter a neurobiologist with a law degree. “Educated people
are getting a hefty return on their investment,” says Miller.  The “supply” case hinges on the notion that the working
world is getting more complicated and demanding. “Complexity
has opened a great divide between those who have mastered its
requirements and those who haven’t,” Brink Lindsey, a senior
fellow at the  Cato Institute  and the Kauffman Foundation, argues
in a new book, Human Capitalism. The economists’ term of art for
this is “skill-based technical change.”  Worker Deficiencies  But an emphasis on workers’ deficiencies can morph into a
blame-the-victim mentality. And it’s not the whole story -- far
from it. A new study by three Canadian economists says that
today’s jobs don’t require more smarts than jobs of the recent
past. The researchers found that the average “cognitive
content” of tasks performed by employed college graduates of
all ages peaked in 2000 and has dropped fairly steadily since.
The study is by Paul Beaudry and  David Green  of the University
of British Columbia and Benjamin Sand of  York University  in
Toronto. In the same vein, the Conference Board, a company-supported research organization, recently found that since 2000
the importance of math and science skills in jobs declined,
while social skills became more important.  Grabbing Jobs  Beaudry and his co-authors agree that college grads are
more likely to be employed than high school grads and dropouts.
But they say that’s partly because the college grads are
grabbing jobs they’re overqualified for, bumping the less
educated down the job ladder or off of it entirely. The
Canadians’ study will be scrutinized at a National Bureau of
Economic Research-organized gathering of top labor economists on
June 14 in  Washington . If it stands up, a lot of economists and
policy makers will be forced to rethink their assumptions about
the role of education in fixing unemployment.  To the “demand” camp, the skills mismatch is a small and
temporary concern. A 2011 paper by Marcello Estevao and Evridiki
Tsounta of the  International Monetary Fund  concluded that it
accounted for only 0.5 percentage point of the U.S. jobless rate
and was likely to dissipate over time. Federal Reserve Vice
Chairman  Janet Yellen , a possible successor to Chairman  Ben
Bernanke  in 2014, told Bloomberg Markets last year that the
mismatch argument “constantly resurfaces whenever unemployment
rises, and it’s alive and well now.”  Full Potential  To Yellen and Bernanke, education matters, but it won’t
help job seekers if the economy is running too slowly to
generate jobs. Getting the U.S. economy producing at full
potential would add about $950 billion to annual gross domestic
product and go a long way toward putting people back to work.
For the Fed, accelerating economic growth through monetary
policy is Job One. Alas, for Congress, which controls taxing and
spending, faster growth appears to be Job Two, behind trying to
shrink the federal  budget deficit . Hence the January tax
increases and the March sequester, both of which weigh on
growth.  High unemployment isn’t due solely to fiscal policy
failures. Offshoring and automation loom large. Companies can
get accounting services from India for about $23,000 a year that
would cost $70,000 in Northern Virginia, says Deborah Kops,
managing principal of Sourcing Change, a sourcing consultancy.
“We’re in a Jetsons economy. Technology is just massively
disintermediating jobs,” says Gary Burnison, chief executive
officer of executive recruiter  Korn/Ferry International. (KFY)  Gar
Alperovitz, a left-leaning political scientist at the  University
of Maryland , argues that the problem is even deeper. He says the
U.S. economy has proved incapable of generating growth and jobs
for the past century except during military buildups and debt
explosions.  Good Ideas  Five years since the start of the unemployment crisis, the
problem with the U.S. labor market isn’t weak supply or weak
demand. It’s both. At the same time, plenty of good and
innovative ideas for how to put more Americans back to work are
out there. Fixing aging infrastructure is a job generator that’s
a no-brainer at today’s low interest rates. Youth jobs programs
need more funding, not less. Jeff Madrick, a senior fellow at
the Roosevelt Institute, calls for a revival of “Fordism” --
 Henry Ford ’s sensible idea of paying workers enough to afford
what’s for sale. All that’s needed is the will to act. Tackling
Unemployment, a new book by Ruth Ellen Wasem on the Employment
Act of 1946, describes how postwar Americans made up their minds
that they would not let the economy slip into another
Depression. “There was a sense of ‘let’s do it,’ a can-do
spirit,” Wasem says in an interview. A little of that American
swagger would go a long way right now.  Click on “Send Comment” in sidebar display to send a letter to
the editor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Coy  in New York at 
 pcoy3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel at 
 jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net  