-- Whites Get 92% of Contracts in Post-Affirmative Action L.A.
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-05-09T21:37:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/white-men-get-92-of-contracts-in-post-affirmative-action-l-a-.html
More than a decade after Los Angeles
started trying to sidestep  California ’s affirmative action ban,
firms owned by white men won 92 percent of the $2.1 billion in
contracts awarded by the city, though they’re just 14 percent of
the population.  A diversity program in place since 2001 has had little
impact because it’s rarely enforced, according to critics and
city officials. Mayor  Antonio Villaraigosa , elected in 2005, has
called it “absolutely insufficient.” A compliance  scorecard 
for 2012 detailed how the second-most populous U.S. city fell
short of its own goals for bringing female and minority
contractors to 22 percent.  The struggle to shake up the status quo in Los Angeles --
which has the second-highest share of minority residents of the
10 largest cities, at about 71 percent -- underscores the power
of prohibitions against preferences for women and traditional
minority groups.  With 1996’s Proposition 209, California became the first
state to  outlaw  gender and race preferences, inspiring bans in
Washington,  Michigan ,  Nebraska  and  Arizona . The U.S. Supreme
Court is considering Michigan’s law in a college case that may
affect state prohibitions against factoring in race and
ethnicity in hiring, contracting and university admissions.  In  Los Angeles , the city hasn’t been aggressive enough in
finding ways around state law, said Tim Lohrentz, who has
studied contracting for the Insight Center for Community
Economic Development in Oakland, California.  ‘Really Varied’  While “Los Angeles has in some ways a really innovative
policy,” Lohrentz said, “at the implementation level, it’s
really varied and not very well done.”  There is no national census of contractors broken down by
race, ethnicity or gender, according to the National Association
of Minority Contractors.  The city requires agencies to set diversity goals and their
main contractors to document good-faith efforts to reach out to
nonwhite, non-male subcontractors.  “We laughingly call it the ‘good-fake’ effort,” said
Beverly Kuykendall, an African-American who owns a consulting
 business  and is on the board of the Southern California chapter
of the National Association of Minority Contractors.  Los Angeles has to force the hands of companies that win
the biggest jobs, Kuykendall said. “Only if there’s a pain
point will some of these prime contractors make an effort.”  About 100 miles to the south,  San Diego , with a non-Hispanic white population of 45 percent, has achieved results by
mandating that a certain amount of contract work go to small
businesses. The system has pulled in women and minorities
without creating a bureaucracy that targets them directly.
Lohrentz called it “very simple” and easy to police.  To give the Los Angeles program some teeth, Villaraigosa in
January opened a $400,000-a-year Office of Contractor Relations.
The outreach program had operated until then without a city
agency designated to manage and enforce it.  Called ‘Dysfunctional’  Los Angeles started the outreach  program  in 2001, four
years before Villaraigosa, a Democrat and the first Hispanic
mayor since 1872, took office. It requires departments and prime
contractors to let minority- and women-owned firms know when
city work is available and what they need to do to qualify and
apply. Departments must track their contracts by race and gender
and report the information to the mayor’s office.  In October 2010, the program was called “dysfunctional”
in a survey by the National Association of Women Business
Owners’ Los Angeles chapter. The 1,004 respondents gave the
city’s good-faith effort rules a grade of 1.8 on a scale of 1 to
4, according to the survey.  Another Program  Three months later, Villaraigosa  created  the Business
Inclusion Program, which advertises opportunities on a website
and formalized the process for prime contractors to include in
their bids minority- and women-owned firms as subcontracting
candidates. More than two years later, Villaraigosa said he was
disappointed most city work was still going to a cohort that
“doesn’t reflect in any way our city’s diversity.”  For all the new initiatives launched, there wasn’t enough
follow-up, according to Kuykendall.  In the most recent reporting period of January through
March, 23 of 34 city departments -- among them some of the
biggest, including police and fire --  failed  to submit the
required reports, the city’s online tally of compliance
scorecards shows.  While the city can penalize contractors by refusing to
allow them to make future bids if they fail to make the required
outreach to potential subcontractors, it hasn’t yet done so,
said Kecia  Washington , managing director of Villaraigosa’s
Office of Business and Economic Policy.  Washington said the city will soon begin aggressive
enforcement now that the mayor has established the new office to
oversee outreach efforts.  Gauging Impossible  City Controller Wendy Greuel found “general compliance”
with the outreach requirements among five city departments
scrutinized in a June 2012  audit .  At the same time, the controller, a candidate to succeed
Villaraigosa in the May 21 election, concluded it was impossible
to gauge the program’s effectiveness because the city wasn’t
collecting enough data. She noted officials weren’t enforcing
compliance with outreach requirements.  Neither Greuel nor her opponent, City Councilman Eric Garcetti, have made city contracting policy a campaign issue.  In an e-mailed statement, Greuel said that as mayor she
would “work towards the goal of having all of these contracts
be subject to the program’s requirements.” Garcetti said in an
e-mailed statement that he would take similar steps, focusing
“on aggressive outreach and streamlining the process.”  While Los Angeles’s proportionately low use of minority-and
women-owned contractors doesn’t reflect their scarcity in the
region, it isn’t the city’s job to do anything about it, said
Ward Connerly, a former  University of California  regent who
wrote the California law and pushed for other bans.  Racial ‘Prop’  “There are a lot of people who have the view, myself
included, that we don’t need to engage in tinkering in the
market,” Connerly said. “I don’t favor propping up businesses
through the use of race.”  Of the $2.1 billion in Los Angeles city contracts last
year, about 6 percent went to minority-owned firms, below the 18
percent goal, its scorecard indicated. Another 2 percent went to
women-owned firms, while the aim was 4 percent.  Less than 1 percent went to companies owned by disabled
military veterans, compared to a target of 3 percent. And about
5 percent went to businesses classified as small, well shy of
the 25 percent objective.  The combined share of women- and minority-owned contractors
increased to 8.3 percent from 7.0 percent a year earlier,
according to city data.  About 29 percent of Los Angeles’ 3.8 million residents are
non-Hispanic white, and slightly less than 50 percent are male,
according to the 2010  U.S. Census .  ’Responsible Bidder’  San Diego began awarding so-called preference points to
contractors classified as small and emerging in 2010. Such
businesses received 23.7 percent of construction contracts in
the year ended June 30, 2012, up from 12.9 percent the year
before, according to San Diego’s business diversity report  card .  Minority- and women-owned firms accounted for 10.8 percent
of municipal contracts last year.  In  New York , not covered by an affirmative action ban, 7.1
percent of $4.5 billion in contracts subject to racial and
gender preferences went to firms owned by minorities and women
in the year that ended in June 2012, according to a city report
 card . A year earlier, such firms accounted for 5.1 percent of
contracts. New York had a total of $10.5 billion in city
contracts last year, the report card indicated.  Under state law, New York can’t consider ownership in
awarding prime contracts, which must go to the “lowest
responsive and responsible bidder,” said Merideth Weber,
spokeswoman for the Department of Small Business Services.  ‘Negative Impact’  New York is working to overcome “significant challenges”
to meeting its goals, the report by Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s
Office of Contract Services said. Bloomberg is the founder and
majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  A 2005 New York law set diversity benchmarks for contracts
under $1 million, with firms owned by African Americans, for
example, targeted for 12.63 percent of construction contracts
and those owned by white women for 16.5 percent of contracts for
professional services.  In Los Angeles, the new city office will monitor progress
toward the outreach goals, help resolve disputes between
departments and contractors and enforce compliance, according to
the executive  directive  Villaraigosa signed in January.  “There’s no question that Proposition 209 has had a
negative impact on minority contracting,” Villaraigosa said
then. “It has had a serious negative impact on opportunity in
California.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  