-- Won Trades Near 2-Month High; Bonds Rally Before BOK Rate Review
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m   a n d   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-05-09T01:09:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/won-trades-near-2-month-high-bonds-rally-before-bok-rate-review.html
South  Korea ’s won traded near a two-month high as data from  China  to German showed the global
economy is recovering, boosting demand for emerging-market
assets. Bonds rose before the central bank’s policy review.  New Zealand employers added the most workers on record in
the three months through March, official figures showed today,
while German industrial production unexpectedly rose for a
second month in March. China’s export growth unexpectedly
accelerated in April, according to customs data released
yesterday. Fourteen of 20 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
forecast the  Bank of Korea  will keep its  seven-day repurchase
rate  at 2.75 percent today.  “The won is up as risk-on trade continues for a second day
after German industrial production improved,” said Son Eun
Jeong, an analyst at Woori Futures Co. in Seoul. “Investors are
closely watching the BOK’s rate decision. If it holds, the won
may be pushed up a bit. Speculation that authorities will
intervene is still high, and may limit further gains.”  The currency rose as much as 0.4 percent to 1,081.97 per
dollar, the strongest level since Feb. 28, before trading little
changed at 1,086.25 at 10:02 a.m. in Seoul, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, a measure
of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options,
dropped five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 6.48
percent, the data show.  The Bank of Korea’s stance should be “forward-looking” in
order to boost investment, the ruling New Frontier Party’s floor
leader Lee Hahn Koo said at a meeting yesterday, according an e-mailed statement by the party. The central bank has kept
 interest rates  unchanged since October, defying pressure from
the government for a reduction even as a weaker yen threatens to
hurt exports.  The yield on 2.75 percent government bonds due March, 2018
fell four basis points to 2.59 percent in Seoul today, according
to exchange data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  