-- Won Drops Most in Three Weeks After BOK Rate Cut; Bonds Advance
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m   a n d   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-05-09T07:56:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/won-drops-most-in-three-weeks-after-bok-rate-cut-bonds-advance.html
South Korea’s won snapped a four-day
rally to slide the most in three weeks as the central bank
unexpectedly cut borrowing costs.  Government bonds  gained.  Governor Kim Choong Soo and his board lowered the benchmark
 seven-day repurchase rate  to 2.5 percent from 2.75 percent, the
central bank said in a statement in Seoul today, joining
monetary authorities in  Australia ,  Europe  and  India  in easing
policy. Six of 20 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News 
predicted the move while the rest forecast no change. Kim, who
opposed a cut last month, backed the reduction.  “The board probably found it difficult to hold out further
without taking any action, given that other central banks are so
active in protecting their economies,” said Choi Seok Won, head
of research at Hanwha Securities Co. in Seoul. “A stronger won
is another reason for today’s rate cut.”  The currency fell 0.4 percent to 1,091.40 per dollar in
Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the
biggest drop since April 18. It earlier touched 1,081.97 per
dollar, the highest since Feb. 28. One-month implied volatility,
a measure of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price
options, rose three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to
6.56 percent, the data showed.  The one-year interest-rate swap fell six basis points to
2.59 percent in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The yield on the 2.75 percent government bonds due March 2018
slipped one basis point to 2.62 percent, exchange data showed.  ‘Forward-Looking’  Today’s central bank decision came after a four-to-three
vote by the board against a cut last month, which showed the
deepest division among policy makers since 2006, and as data
give a mixed picture of Asia’s fourth-largest economy. Ruling
New Frontier Party floor leader Lee Hahn Koo yesterday urged a
“more active role” for the BOK, adding to political pressure
for a cut.  The Bank of Korea’s stance should be “forward-looking” in
order to boost investment, Lee said at a meeting yesterday,
according to an e-mailed statement from the party. The central
bank had kept  interest rates  unchanged since October, defying
pressure from the government for a reduction even as a weaker
yen threatened to hurt exports by making Japanese products
cheaper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  