-- Yen Extends Drop Past 101 Per Dollar After Bonds Data
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-05-10T21:26:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/yen-slides-past-100-per-dollar-for-first-time-in-4-years.html
The yen fell beyond 101 per dollar
for the first time since April 2009 after a government report
showed Japanese investors boosted holdings of overseas bonds and
investors speculated on improving prospects of the  U.S. economy .  The  Dollar Index  extended its biggest two-day rally since
July, triggering plunges in oil, gold and Treasuries.  Japan ’s
currency weakened against all of its 16 major counterparts as
investors ended the longest streak of foreign bond sales since
January 2010, boosting speculation  Bank of Japan  stimulus
measures are driving local investors to seek higher returns
overseas. The Australian dollar dropped below parity with the
buck for the first time since June after the Reserve Bank this
week cut  interest rates  to a record.  “We’d already priced in what was happening at the BOJ, and
we’d already priced in that we had a huge shift in terms of
government and monetary policy,”  Camilla Sutton , head of
currency strategy at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , said in an interview
on Bloomberg Television’s “Lunch Money” with Sara Eisen.
“What’s new is the U.S. dollar side of it. We’re in the midst
of a big U.S. dollar move.”  The yen slumped 1 percent to 101.62 per dollar as of 5 p.m.
 New York  time after depreciating to 101.98, the weakest level
since Oct. 21, 2008. Japan’s currency slid 0.6 percent to 132.00
per euro after reaching 132.26, the least since January 2010.
The euro dropped 0.4 percent to $1.2989.  For the week, the yen tumbled 2.6 percent against the
dollar, the most since the period ended April 5. Japan’s
currency has fallen 1.7 percent versus the euro.  Options Bets  Futures traders increased their wagers that the yen will
decline against the  U.S. dollar ,  figures  from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The difference
in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other large
speculators on a decline in the yen compared with those on an
increase -- so-called net shorts -- was 78,560 on May 7,
compared with net shorts of 71,127 a week earlier.  UBS AG lowered its one-month yen forecast to 102 per dollar
from 95 and its three-month projection to 105 from 95. The yen
was “already looking vulnerable” before falling below 100
yesterday and “changing flow dynamics are likely to keep the
upswing alive,”  Gareth Berry , a Singapore-based currency
strategist at UBS, wrote in a client note.  100 Level  The Japanese currency is likely to stay weaker than 100 per
dollar, with the 100 level serving as support for the dollar-yen
cross,  Alan Ruskin , Deutsche Bank AG’s New York-based global
head of Group of 10 foreign-exchange strategy, said in a
television interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Sara Eisen. Going long dollar-yen is a good trade,
according to Ruskin, who sees it increasing to 105 in the next
two months.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $54.7 billion, compared with $34.4 billion yesterday,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $23.4 billion, the
largest share of trades at 43 percent. Australian dollar-U.S.
dollar options were the second most actively traded at $5.3
billion, or 10 percent.  Dollar-yen options trading was 68 percent above the average
for the past five Fridays at a similar time in the day,
according to Bloomberg analysis.  Bearish Yen  “We are seeing the ramifications of the yen move that had
the effect of exacerbating the already short-dollar position on
the street,” or bets against the dollar, said  Richard Gilhooly ,
an interest rate strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD
Securities unit in New York. “As the dollar rises, the dollar
shorts get shorter, and it is feeding on itself.”  The Dollar Index, which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, advanced 0.4 percent to 83.097.  Gold and oil led losses in 20 of the 24 commodities tracked
by the S&P GSCI Index, sending the gauge down as much as 2.2
percent, as the stronger dollar caused declines in prices of
materials denominated in the U.S. currency.  Yields on benchmark 10-year Treasury notes climbed to as
high as 1.93 percent, the most in six weeks.  Overseas Investment  Japanese investors boosted holdings of overseas bonds in
each of the previous two weeks, following six weeks of sales,
Ministry of Finance data showed today. Investors bought a net
309.9 billion yen ($3.05 billion) of foreign bonds in the five
days through May 3, and 204.4 billion yen the previous week.  The yen has dropped 5.2 percent against the greenback since
April 4 when Kuroda exceeded economist forecasts by pledging to
double monthly bond purchases and buy longer-term debt to reach
a 2 percent annual inflation goal. He said it’s natural for a
currency to weaken in response to monetary stimulus.  The yen began its final slide toward 100 per dollar
yesterday after the U.S. Labor Department reported claims for
 unemployment insurance  unexpectedly dropped to a five-year low
last week. That spurred bets the  Federal Reserve  will curtail
stimulus earlier than previously anticipated.  “The big message is FX markets are anticipating that any
tapering in global central bank policy will begin in the U.S.
now that the other major banks have gotten more aggressive,”
Gilhooly of TD Securities said. “The only currency willing to
appreciate is the U.S.”  The yen has tumbled 23 percent in the past six months, the
biggest decline among 10 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation Weighted Indexes. The dollar gained 1.8 percent and
the euro strengthened 4.3 percent.  Aussie Decline  The Australian dollar dropped below parity with its U.S.
counterpart after the central bank lowered its inflation
forecast following an interest-rate cut this week.  The so-called Aussie posted its biggest weekly decline
since November 2011 versus the greenback as the  Reserve Bank  of
 Australia  lowered its  benchmark  to a record 2.75 percent on May
7 and cited unusual strength in the currency.  The Australian dollar declined as much as 1.3 percent to
99.61 U.S. cents, the least since June, before closing at
$1.0025.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  