-- Yen to Help Japan Steelmakers Reclaim Share From Chinese Rivals
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-09T06:07:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/yen-to-help-japan-steelmakers-reclaim-share-from-chinese-rivals.html
Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal Corp. (5401) 
and  JFE Holdings Inc. (5411) , Japan’s top steelmakers, will reclaim
marketshare lost to faster-growing Asian rivals, including
Chinese suppliers, helped by a weaker yen and Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe’s currency policies, analysts said.  “The continued weakening yen will reshape the landscape of
the  Asia  steel sector, making Japan potentially the most
competitive producer, particularly in the Asia export market,”
Credit Suisse Group AG analysts including Trina Chen and Shinya
Yanada said in a report dated yesterday. “We believe Chinese
exports are the most vulnerable.”  The yen’s 20 percent decline against the dollar in the past
six months under the Abe administration is alleviating cost
pressure at Japanese steel suppliers and giving them a
competitive edge over China’s  Baoshan Iron & Steel (600019)  Co. and  South
Korea ’s Posco. The weaker yen will increase Japanese steel
exports to  Southeast Asia  and Europe, which traditionally
consume high-grade steel used in cars, said Shi Shengwu, an
export manager at  Wuhan Iron & Steel Co. (600005)   “The yen weakness will cripple China’s competitiveness on
the sales of higher grades because they also target developed
markets like Europe.” said Shi. Sales of high grade steels
earned a higher profit margin, which helped compensate for
shipping costs to Europe.  If the yen weakens to 120 yen a dollar from 95 yen, exports
from Japanese steelmakers could gain a $50 to $65 advantage per
metric ton, compared with non-Japanese suppliers in Asia, the
Credit Suisse report said.  The Japanese currency traded at 98.89 yen to the dollar as
of 12:09 p.m. in  Tokyo . The yen has fallen the most in the past
six months among the 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes.  Chinese Exports  Chinese steel sales to the six major Association of
Southeast Asian Nations, including Singapore, Thailand and
Vietnam, surged 57 percent to 3.9 million tons in the first
quarter of this year from a year ago, according to Bloomberg
calculations based on data from the nation’s General
Administration of Customs. The growth may slow to as little as
20 percent this month and even lower in June, Mysteel Research
Institute analyst Wang Yizhou said.  “Changes in currency rates are helping  Japan  sharpen its
edge in marketing high-grade steel products,” Shanghai-based
Wang said in a phone interview. “The surge in Chinese exports
to the Asean market will end soon, with high inventories already
built up after a flood of steel shipments.”  Exports by Chinese steelmakers to Southeast Asia, the
country’s biggest destination for shipments of the alloy.
surpassed those to South Korea last year.  Assuming the Japanese currency will trade at 100 yen to the
dollar, Nippon Steel and JFE will together boost exports by as
much as 2 million tons in the year that began April 1, adding
about 40 billion yen to profits combined, according to Kazuhiro
Harada, a senior analyst at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net ;
Helen  Yuan  in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  