-- Yen Weakens Past 100 Per Dollar 1st Time in 4 Years
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-05-09T17:58:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/yen-weakens-past-100-per-dollar-for-first-time-in-four-years.html
(Corrects currency conversion in fifth paragraph.)  The yen weakened beyond 100 per dollar
for the first time in four years as the Bank of  Japan ’s
deflation-fighting measures have the currency headed for its
longest streak of monthly losses in almost two decades.  Japan’s currency has dropped 4.3 percent since April 4,
when BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda outstripped economist
forecasts by pledging to double monthly bond purchases and scoop
up longer-term debt to reach a 2 percent annual inflation goal.
The currency last traded at 100 on April 14, 2009.  Honda Motor Co. and  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  forecast higher
profits this fiscal year and the Topix index of shares posted
its longest rally since 2005 as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s
Liberal Democratic Party swept to power in December on a
campaign to take unprecedented economic stimulus measures to end
15 years of deflation. The yen’s 13 percent plunge this year,
the most among major currencies, has spurred complaints from
trading partners concerned it will cost their exporters market
share.  “We’re opening up the door to look at 105 in the next few
months, and 110 by end of year seems perfectly reasonable,”
said  Alan Ruskin , global head of Group of 10 foreign-exchange
strategy in New York at Deutsche Bank AG, said today in a
telephone interview.  Stimulus Plan  The BOJ increased monthly bond purchases on April 4 to
exceed 7 trillion yen ($70 billion) at Kuroda’s first policy
meeting in charge, exceeding the 5.2 trillion yen forecast by
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. It also suspended a cap
on some bond holdings and dropped a limit on debt maturities.  Policy makers maintained the unprecedented plan at an April
26 meeting and predicted inflation will almost match their
target in two years even after a report highlighted deflation’s
grip.  Kuroda told reporters after the second April meeting that
policy adjustments would be made if necessary and the bank will
keep its stimulus until stable 2 percent gains in consumer
prices are realized.  Former BOJ officials have cast doubt on Kuroda’s ability to
overcome the drag on the nation’s economy caused by the world’s
fastest aging society.  All five ex-Bank of Japan officials in a Bloomberg News
survey said any gains in government bond yields will be
contained over the next two years, with four of them seeing
little chance that the BOJ will achieve its 2 percent inflation
target. People 65 or older accounted for 22.1 percent of Japan’s
total population in 2007-2011, the highest global proportion,
according to Bloomberg Rankings.  Aging Society  “What creates Japan’s deflation is the aging of society,”
said  Hideo Kumano , chief economist at Dai-ichi Life Research
Institute Inc. in Tokyo, in an interview in April. “Robust
economic growth and business opportunities that provide future
income are needed to end deflation. Even if the central bank
raises the flag of inflation, whether people will follow it is a
different matter.”  Kumano, a 10-year veteran at the BOJ, sees lower Japanese
government bond yields in the next two years. A separate poll of
16 economists shows the  yield  on the benchmark 10-year note may
rise to 0.93 percent by September 2014, which would still be the
lowest among developed nations, according to separate polls.  Japan’s benchmark government bond yield climbed to O.60
percent today after tumbling to a record 0.315 percent on April
5. It has climbed as Kuroda’s stimulus policies helped send the
Topix index of shares to the highest level since Sept. 12, 2008,
the last trading day before Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed
for bankruptcy. The stock gauge rose 13 percent in April, the
strongest monthly rally since March 1999.  Global Growth  Kuroda and Abe have drawn criticism from other nations that
their willingness to do whatever it takes to end deflation are
weakening the yen too far, too fast, giving Japan’s exporters an
unfair advantage. South Korean Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok
said in April that a falling yen is having a “considerable
impact” on South Korea’s economy that’s bigger than threats
from North Korea.  Alert to signs of a slowing global economy, Group of 20
finance chiefs and central bankers on April 19 endorsed Kuroda’s
stimulus measures, signaling Japan’s focus on supporting
domestic demand was strong enough to allow them to ignore the
side-effects on their own economies of a sliding yen.  ‘Cocktail Party’  “The cocktail-party rules say that as long as you don’t
actually say that your aim is to weaken the currency, then it
doesn’t matter if your actions weaken the currency,” Nicholas Smith, a Japan strategist at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets Ltd. in
Tokyo, said in a Bloomberg Television interview on April 30.
“If you’re printing money, then the yen is going to continue to
weaken.”  The yen’s is heading for its eighth-straight monthly loss
against the dollar, which would be the longest since a nine-month skid ending in January 1996. The policies of Abe and
Kuroda have reversed a trend of currency strength that damped
Japan’s corporate earnings and entrenched deflationary pressures
for consumers. Investors seeking refuge assets amid  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis and a record earthquake in Japan drove the
yen to a postwar high of 75.35 per dollar in October 2011.  Profits Rise  Electronics maker Sony Corp. posted an eighth-consecutive
quarter of losses in the period ended Dec. 31.  The weaker yen helped Mazda, Japan’s fifth-largest car
company, post a profit of 34 billion yen for the fiscal year
that ended March 31, compared with a loss of 107.7 billion yen
the previous year.  A one-yen change against the dollar, euro, Canadian dollar
and Australian dollar has a 9.1 percent impact on Mazda’s
operating profit, according to estimates of Bank of America
Corp. based on Mazda’s own forecast for the current fiscal year.
That compares with 4.7 percent at  Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd. (7270) ,
which makes Subaru cars, and 3.1 percent at  Toyota. (7203)   Kuroda said after his first policy meeting that it’s
natural for a currency to weaken in response to monetary
stimulus, and the BOJ will continue to ease until price growth
is sustainable.  Deflation intensified before Kuroda expanded stimulus, with
 consumer prices  excluding fresh food sliding 0.5 percent in
March from a year earlier, the most in two years.  The risk is that continued price declines will erode BOJ
credibility. The BOJ’s next forecasts are due in October,
suggesting another round of stimulus could come that month,
according to Barclays Plc.  “Kuroda will probably have to bolster stimulus in October
as prices won’t be on the desired track,” said Kyohei Morita,
chief economist at Barclays in  Tokyo . At the same time,
“boosting consumer prices by more stimulus will get harder and
harder. His credibility will be at stake.”  The yen will be at 104 per dollar at year-end, according to
the median of 55 economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Of
those polled, 41 saw the currency at 100 yen per dollar or
weaker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  