-- Google’s YouTube Channels to Feature ‘Sesame Street,’ UFC
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2013-05-09T20:28:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/youtube-unveils-online-paid-subscription-channels.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube video site will
begin selling subscriptions to film and TV services over the
Internet, creating paid channels with more professional content
to compete with  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)   On-demand content from the initial 30 channels will vary
from family-friendly “Sesame Street” to  Ultimate Fighting
Championship  martial-arts bouts and cost about $2.99 a month
each, YouTube said today on a conference call.  Google is using YouTube to host other suppliers, avoiding
the high costs incurred by services like Netflix, which license
programming directly from creators. The approach lets others
take the risk of making content, while bolstering options for
consumers who want to watch shows online. The channels also
represent a step toward a-la-carte programming that some media
players such as Comcast Corp. have resisted.  “This is really just the beginning,” Malik Ducard,
YouTube’s director of content partnerships, said on the call.  The first 30 channels will be part of a pilot program,
Ducard said. All will offer free 14-day trials and some will
offer discounts for annual subscriptions. Sales from
subscriptions will be split, with the programmers keeping the
majority.  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , has been
stepping up efforts to boost YouTube’s revenue beyond
advertising. Its video-rental service includes titles from
 Viacom Inc. (VIA) ’s Paramount Pictures and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , for a
typical price of $3.99.  Advertising Option  Content creators will also have the option to run ads,
Malik said, comparing the arrangement to cable-television
channels.  “There’s some cable that have ads on the pay channel and
some don’t,” he said. “What we’re trying to do is really put
that power in the partners’ hands.”  Other  channels  include National Geographic Kids, Jim Henson
Family TV and Laugh Factory comedy programming.  YouTube will generate an estimated $3.6 billion in revenue
this year and accounts for as much as $21.3 billion of its
parent’s market value, according to a report this month from
Barclays analysts.  The Web-video company has built a state-of-the-art
production facility in  Los Angeles , and is spending $100 million
on grants to filmmakers and artists ranging from few hundred
thousand to a few million dollars.  YouTube Fare  While those outlays are significant, YouTube’s most popular
fare is typified by the young-adult goofing of channels like
“Smosh” and comedian Ryan Higa. By contrast, Netflix and
Amazon have been bidding up traditional television content such
as “Breaking Bad” and “Downton Abbey,” while expanding into
original programming with shows such as “Orange Is the New
Black,” produced by Lions Gate Entertainment Corp.  Cinedigm Digital Cinema Corp. (CIDM) , a New York-based distributor
of independent films, will offer Docurama, a documentary film
channel, for $2.99 a month on YouTube.  Cinedigm will update its programming weekly, the company
said in a statement. It manages a total of 1,250 documentary
titles and the channel will draw from that library.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  