-- YRC Confirms Arkansas Best Offer After Deal Rejection
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-05-09T21:34:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/yrc-confirms-arkansas-best-offer-after-deal-rejection.html
YRC Worldwide Inc. (YRCW) , the trucker that
stumbled after reaching No. 1 in the U.S. through mergers, said
it remains interested in acquiring  Arkansas Best Corp. (ABFS)  following
the rival company’s rejection of an offer to begin talks.  Arkansas Best rose 9 percent to its highest closing price
since April 2012 after YRC confirmed the approach. Arkansas Best
rejected a YRC offer made in late March to explore an
acquisition of its largest unit, ABF Freight System Inc., the
company said in a U.S. regulatory filing posted today.  YRC avoided bankruptcy with credit accords in 2009 and
2011, after more than $2 billion in acquisitions left it saddled
with debt and a slowing economy hurt sales. A deal by the
 Overland Park , Kansas-based trucker, which has  reported  six
straight annual losses, may be tough given its financial
situation, said  Art Hatfield , a Raymond James & Associates Inc.
analyst.  “I don’t think it’s serious at all,” he said in an
interview. “YRC’s balance sheet couldn’t handle more debt, so I
don’t know what they’re thinking in that regard. It just doesn’t
make any sense,” said Hatfield, who is based in  Memphis ,
 Tennessee .  The trucker had long-term debt of $1.3 billion at the end
of the first quarter, when it recorded a $24.5 million net loss.  YRC is “much stronger” financially as a result of work
over the past year and believes an acquisition of Arkansas Best
would boost efficiency, Chief Executive Officer James Welch said
in an interview today. Duplicate facilities could be sold to
help fund the transaction, he said.  Many ‘Synergies’  “We both have excess capacity and we see a lot of
synergies by combining those networks and becoming more
efficient,” Welch said. He declined to discuss specifics of the
acquisition offer.  Arkansas Best climbed to $16.73 at 4 p.m.  New York  time,
while YRC added 1 percent to $14.07.  Arkansas Best hasn’t had any contact with YRC since
declining the overture in early April, Kathy Fieweger, vice
president for marketing and communications at the  Fort Smith ,
Arkansas-based company, said today. She declined to discuss
specifics of the offer.  The trucker is focused on “ongoing labor negotiations as
well as other strategic and operational initiatives” that make
it inappropriate to consider a YRC offer at this time, the
company said in the filing.  Hatfield  rates  YRC underperform and Arkansas Best market
perform.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomber.net . 