-- ThyssenKrupp Unit Sale Bids Yet to Be Presented to Partner Vale
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-05-09T17:41:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-09/thyssenkrupp-unit-sale-bids-yet-to-be-presented-to-partner-vale.html
ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , Germany’s largest
steelmaker, has yet to submit proposals for the sale of a stake
in its joint venture with Vale SA to the Brazilian partner, Vale
Chief Executive Officer Murilo Ferreira said.  “I haven’t received any complete proposal from any
player,” Ferreira, speaking to reporters in Rio de Janeiro
today, said of ThyssenKrupp’s talks to sell a stake in the CSA
steel plant in the state of Rio. Vale is “not selling or buying
anything” of the joint venture, he added.  Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA (CSNA3) , the third-largest Brazilian
steelmaker, has emerged as the leading bidder for the CSA stake
along with a ThyssenKrupp steel plant in Alabama, people with
knowledge of the talks said last week. ThyssenKrupp, which owns
73 percent of CSA, is considering selling part of its stake and
keeping a third of the plant, said the people, who asked not to
be named because the talks aren’t public.  Vale  is seeking to protect its contract rights with CSA,
including an agreement to supply  iron ore  to the plant, Ferreira
said.  Vale, ThyssenKrupp and CSN, as the Sao Paulo-based bidder
for the stake is known, would seek to raise about $750 million
to overhaul the plant, the people familiar with the talks said.  ThyssenKrupp, in an e-mailed response to questions, said
it’s in “intense negotiations” for the asset sales and that
“these negotiations include talks with our involved partner
Vale, Brazilian development bank BNDES and Brazilian government
circles.”  A CSN press relations official in Sao Paulo, who asked not
to be named citing company policy, couldn’t immediately comment
on the talks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  