-- A Penalty or a Tax? It’s Both
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-07-08T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/a-penalty-or-a-tax-it-s-both.html
Is the “individual mandate” in
President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law a penalty, or is it a
tax? Through a series of comic accidents, this  has become  the
most important question facing our nation.  When designing the legislation that became the Affordable
Care Act, the president borrowed what had been  the central idea 
of Republican health-care-reform proposals in the early 1990s,
as well as  the central idea  of Governor  Mitt Romney ’s health-
care reform in  Massachusetts . This was a requirement that almost
every adult American either carry insurance or pay a fine. The
Obama folks were eager to categorize this fine as a penalty, not
a tax, because he had promised not to raise taxes on people
earning less than $200,000 ($250,000 for a couple).  Nevertheless, Obama’s lawyers, in defending the individual
mandate before the Supreme Court against charges that it
exceeded the federal government’s powers under the  Commerce
Clause , did argue in the alternative that the mandate could be
justified under the federal government’s taxing powers. Chief
Justice  John Roberts  surprised everybody by agreeing with the
law’s opponents about the Commerce Clause, but buying the
administration’s view about the taxing power. Joining with the
court’s four liberal justices, he thus provided the fifth vote
to uphold the law.  This was a great victory for Obama, although its
implications are more ominous. The conservative argument is that
Obamacare -- and who knows what other laws, many of them far
older and more established -- exceed the federal government’s
authority under the Commerce Clause. Five members of the court
(Roberts plus the four conservative dissenters who would have
invalidated the law) now agree with this premise.  The decision also seemed to put the administration in a
box. Is the individual mandate a tax? If so, Obama is conceding
that he raised taxes on the middle class. If not, then Obama is
suggesting that the  Supreme Court  was wrong, even though it went
his way.  This is nothing, though, compared with the knots the
Republicans and their presumptive presidential nominee have  tied
themselves into  over this issue. Romney said immediately after
the Supreme Court ruling that he disagreed: The mandate is not a
tax. That’s because an almost identical penalty is part of his
Massachusetts health-care reform -- and because, if it’s a tax,
the Supreme Court was correct in declaring the law
constitutional.  Then, as usual when he finds himself singing a different
melody than the far right, Romney changed his tune. The mandate
is indeed a tax, he agreed last week, because the Supreme Court
says so, and it gets the last word. It is convenient for Romney
to say that the Supreme Court has ruled and so his hands are
tied. As Josh Barro  points out  on Bloomberg View’s the Ticker
blog, this is not a principle that Romney applies to other
issues, such as abortion.  So is it a penalty or is it a tax? The answer is: It’s
both. “Penalty” and “tax” are just words. They don’t have some
kind of essence that can settle any arguments about their
meanings if only it can be discovered. Both words describe
situations where the government demands payment from someone for
something. There are penalties that clearly are not taxes, such
as jail time for committing a crime, and there are taxes that
are not penalties, like the Social Security or Medicare payroll
taxes. Then there are penalties that are also taxes. Like the
individual mandate.  However much a fee may resemble a penalty, it can still be
a tax, and vice versa. Arguing about whether it is one or the
other is like arguing about how many angels can dance on the
head of a pin.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  latest jobs report ;
William D. Cohan on Finra’s  captive arbitration system ; Susan P.
Crawford on whether  Google is a monopoly ;  Albert R. Hunt  on
 gaming the Electoral College ;  Simon Johnson  on  banks’ living
wills ;  Pankaj Mishra  on the false promise of  Asian values ; Jed
Kolko on the downside of  rising house prices .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 