-- Lack of U.S. Aid May Prolong Syrian Crisis, Senator McCain Says
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-07-08T13:18:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/lack-of-u-s-aid-may-prolong-syrian-crisis-senator-mccain-says.html
A lack of U.S. support for Syria’s
rebels may lengthen President Bashar al-Assad’s rule over the
country, Senator  John McCain  said.  Other countries in the region are “crying out for American
leadership,” the  Arizona  Republican said on the CBS program
“Face the Nation.” The U.S. aid needed for a quick overthrow
would prevent a new government from being controlled by
extremists, McCain said.  Assad’s “days are numbered, but these days could be very
large in numbers,” he said. “Right now Bashar al-Assad is able
to massacre and slaughter people and stay in power.”  An uprising in Syria that began peacefully 16 months ago
has evolved into a deadly confrontation between rebels and
Assad, whose family has held power for four decades.  International efforts to find a political solution to the
violence are failing, United Nations special envoy  Kofi Annan 
told the French newspaper Le Monde.  “Evidently, we haven’t succeeded,” Annan, who also
represents the Arab League, said in an interview with Le Monde
published yesterday.  Syrian forces battled with rebels in Aleppo in the north of
the country as they sought to reassert control over the region,
the U.K.-based  Syrian Observatory for Human Rights  said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday. More than 50 people were killed
yesterday, the  Associated Press  reported, citing activists.  The violence has claimed more than 10,000 lives. About
4,000 Syrians have been killed since Annan took on the Syrian
peacemaking effort in February, according to the Local
Coordination Committees, an activist group.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net ;
Catarina Saraiva in Washington at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  