-- Aeromexico Near Deal for About 70 Boeing or Airbus Jets
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a
-- 2012-07-09T21:05:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/aeromexico-said-to-near-deal-for-about-70-boeing-or-airbus-jets.html
Grupo Aeromexico SAB is close to the
purchase of about 70 mainly single-aisle aircraft, in what would
be the biggest purchase yet by  Mexico ’s largest airline, three
people familiar with the talks said.  The carrier is considering Airbus SAS’s A320neo and some
A350 wide-body jets, as well as  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s competing 737 Max
and 787-9 Dreamliner, said one of the people, who asked not to
be identified because the talks are private. Boeing has the
upper hand after Commercial Airplanes Chief Executive Officer
Ray Conner sent a sales team to Mexico to secure the order, two
of the people said.  Aeromexico said in a filing to the Mexican stock exchange
today that it is in talks to acquire narrow- and wide-body
aircraft, without saying which plane makers it is negotiating
with. The airline seeks to improve fuel consumption and
modernize its fleet and will provide more details if any deals
are reached, according to the statement.  Boeing and Airbus are coming to this year’s Farnborough air
show with more fuel-efficient versions of their best-selling
single-aisle planes, after Boeing responded to the success of
the A320neo last year at the Paris expo. Aeromexico sold shares
to the public last year, and the carrier has arranged financing
to expand its fleet.  Potential Deal  Spokesmen for Airbus, based in Toulouse,  France , and for
Chicago-based Boeing declined to comment.  Aeromexico would consider splitting the order between the
two manufacturers, the person said.  Aeromexico shares  rose 1.8 percent to 22 pesos at the close
in Mexico City, for their seventh straight gain.  An order of 70 aircraft would be valued at about $6.66
billion, based on the $95.2 million price tag of the 737 Max 8.
Customers typically buy airliners at a discount. The 787-9 has a
list price of $227.8 million.  The potential deal is “positive for Aeromexico because of
its size,”  said Pablo Duarte de Leon, an analyst with Corp.
Actinver SAB in Mexico City.  “It’s representative of the growth opportunities the
airline sees in the local market and in the U.S.-Mexico
market,” he wrote in an e-mailed response to questions. “In my
opinion, the airline would be seeking the Boeing 737 Max 8 as a
replacement for its 737 Next Generations.”  Ex-Im Bank  Aeromexico  reported  first-quarter net income of 135 million
pesos ($10 million) in April, on sales of 9.2 billion pesos. The
company has received $171 million in financing from the Export-
Import Bank to finance three 737s.  Winning Aeromexico as a customer would let Airbus pry open
Boeing’s hold on the carrier’s fleet. The company operates
Boeing 737s as well as 767 and 777 wide-body jets, according to
its website. Aeromexico also has smaller  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  ERJ-145 and
E190 jets.  Boeing has switched chief executive officers at its
commercial aircraft unit, with former sales chief Ray Conner
taking over from Jim Albaugh last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in London at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Enrique Arrioja in Mexico City at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  