-- Economic Growth Key to Afghanistan’s Stability, Clinton Says
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-07-08T02:48:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/afghanistan-s-stability-depends-on-economic-growth-clinton-says.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said  Afghanistan ’s future will depend on its economic stability
and accountability, as international donors pledged $16 billion
in aid for the country.  “We all know that Afghanistan’s security will not be
measured only by the absence of war,” Clinton said at a
conference in  Tokyo  today to plan the economic transition after
NATO troops pull out at the end of 2014.“It will also be
measured by the presence of jobs and economic opportunity.”  The Tokyo conference marks the culmination of two years of
work by NATO countries and their allies to plan Afghanistan’s
security and economic transition. More than 70 countries
gathered to discuss funding, private sector investment and the
contributions of Pakistan and  India , rivals that vie for
influence in Afghanistan.  The pledged $16 billion will be available immediately. The
U.S. will ask Congress to provide assistance at or near the
levels of the past decade through the year 2017, Clinton said.
Based on a World Bank assessment that Afghanistan will need $3.9
billion a year, the amount pledged at the conference will meet
the country’s needs through 2015.  Fighting Corruption  The funds will come with provisions to encourage the
Afghanistan government to stick to commitments to battle
corruption that has eroded progress there.  Afghan Foreign Minister Zalmai Rassoul acknowledged the
emphasis that donor countries have put on accountability. “Good
governance is at the heart of meaningful progress,” he told the
conference, adding that the government will continue its reform
programs.  During a stop in Kabul yesterday, Clinton acknowledged that
Afghanistan’s security situation is still “far from ideal.”
Even so, she noted that progress is being made. The Tokyo
conference also celebrated some of the ways that NATO countries
and their allies have improved the lives of Afghan people and
their economic prospects in concrete and sometimes stark ways.  “Real progress has been made,” British Foreign Minister
 William Hague  said. “We promise the Afghan people we’ll build
on these gains.”  Since 2006,  life expectancy  for men and women has jumped to
over 60 years from 44 years. In 2001, only 9 percent of the
population of more than 30 million could walk to a health
facility within an hour. More than 60 percent can today.  In 2002, only 6 percent of Afghans had access to reliable
electricity. That figure has risen to 18 percent today, with
more than 2 million Kabul residents enjoying electric power 24
hours a day.  Mobile Phones  Mobile phone use has soared to 16 million subscribers from
21,000 in 2001. And while few roads existed 11 years ago, today
there are more than 2,000 kilometers (1,243 miles) of paved
roads, giving roughly 80 percent of the population greater
access to markets, schools, clinics, and government services.  In 2002, an estimated 900,000 boys were in school and
virtually no girls, according to State Department statistics.
There are now 8 million students enrolled in school, almost 40
percent of them girls.  Clinton has made the equality of Afghanistan’s women a
centerpiece of her approach to the country. “Let me emphasize
that the  United States  will continue to stand by the women of
Afghanistan because no nation can achieve peace, reconciliation,
stability and economic growth while leaving out half the
population,” she said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  