-- Afghanistan Future Requires Economic Stability, Clinton Says
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-07-09T04:03:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/afghanistan-s-future-depends-on-economic-stability-clinton-says.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said Afghanistan’s future will depend on its economic
stability and accountability, as international donors pledged
$16 billion in aid for the country.  “We all know that Afghanistan’s security will not be
measured only by the absence of war,” Clinton said in  Tokyo 
yesterday at a conference to plan the economic transition after
NATO troops pull out at the end of 2014.“It will also be
measured by the presence of jobs and economic opportunity.”  President  Hamid Karzai ’s government is almost wholly
reliant on foreign assistance as it struggles to build a
sustainable economy in a country devastated by decades-old
ethnic rivalries and corruption. Billions of dollars are leaving
on concerns Afghanistan will be further split by the U.S.
withdrawal from its 11-year war with the Taliban.  Karzai said at a press conference today in Tokyo that
responsibility for stamping out corruption lies with donors as
well as his government.  “Two hands must clap, one hand will not do it,” he said.  About 97 percent of Afghanistan’s economy comes from
spending on foreign troops and aid, the U.S. Senate Foreign
Relations Committee said in a report last year. According to a
November report by the  World Bank  and the Afghan  Finance
Ministry , international aid came to $15.7 billion in the 2011
financial year.  Clinton met with other ministers while attending the
conference, sitting down with Pakistani Foreign Minister Hina Rabbani Khar and her Afghan counterpart Zalmai Rassoul. She also
met with Japanese Foreign Minister  Koichiro Gemba  for lunch to
discuss  North Korea , regional tensions over the South  China  Sea
and Japanese concerns over U.S. military bases on Okinawa.  Afghan Security  Both Clinton and Gemba expressed confidence that the
Afghanistan conference would help stabilize that country.  “With this agreement it’s finally possible to follow-up on
the use of funds for development and ensure Afghanistan’s
independence,” Gemba said at a separate briefing yesterday.  The Tokyo conference marks the culmination of two years of
work by NATO countries and their allies to plan Afghanistan’s
security and economic transition. More than 70 countries
gathered to discuss funding, private sector investment and the
contributions of Pakistan and India, rivals that vie for
influence in Afghanistan.  The U.K. will host the next ministerial meeting in 2014 to
review progress, International Development Secretary  Andrew Mitchell  said in a statement. Britain has also pledged to
maintain funding at its current level through to 2017, he said.  U.S. Aid  The pledged $16 billion will be available immediately. The
U.S. will ask Congress to provide assistance at or near the
levels of the past decade through the year 2017, Clinton said.
Based on a World Bank assessment that Afghanistan will need $3.9
billion a year, the amount pledged at the conference will meet
the country’s needs through 2015.  The funds will come with provisions to encourage the
Afghanistan government to stick to commitments to battle
corruption that has eroded progress there.  Afghan foreign minister Rassoul acknowledged the emphasis
that donor countries have put on accountability. “Good
governance is at the heart of meaningful progress,” he told the
conference, adding that the government will continue its reform
programs.  During a stop in Kabul July 7, Clinton acknowledged that
Afghanistan’s security situation is still “far from ideal.”
Even so, she noted that progress is being made. The Tokyo
conference also celebrated some of the ways that NATO countries
and their allies have improved the lives of Afghan people and
their economic prospects in concrete and sometimes stark ways.  ‘Real Progress’  “Real progress has been made,” British Foreign Minister
 William Hague  said. “We promise the Afghan people we’ll build
on these gains.”  Since 2006,  life expectancy  for men and women has jumped to
over 60 years from 44 years. In 2001, only 9 percent of the
population of more than 30 million could walk to a health
facility within an hour. More than 60 percent can today.  Only 6 percent of Afghans had access to reliable
electricity in 2002. That figure has risen to 18 percent today,
with more than 2 million Kabul residents enjoying electric power
24 hours a day. Ten years ago, there were about 900,000 boys
were in school and almost no girls, according to State
Department statistics. There are now 8 million students enrolled
in school, almost 40 percent of them girls.  “Let me emphasize that the  United States  will continue to
stand by the women of  Afghanistan  because no nation can achieve
peace, reconciliation, stability and economic growth while
leaving out half the population,” Clinton said yesterday.  Osprey Aircraft  She and Gemba also discussed the U.S. decision to deploy
V-22 Osprey transport aircraft to  Japan , even though there is
opposition from residents over safety issues following two
recent crashes in  Morocco  and the U.S. state of  Florida . The
planes will be deployed in Okinawa, long a flashpoint in
Japanese-U.S. relations because of local sensitivities about the
19,000 Marines based there.  Gemba said he sought “continued cooperation” from the
U.S. in providing information about accidents involving the
Osprey aircraft. Clinton countered by saying that security
requirements call for “the right equipment,” though she added
that the U.S. understands Japan’s concern about the safety
records of the tilt-rotor military aircraft.  The two also discussed the realignment of U.S. forces
stationed in Japan and the relocation of Marines on Okinawa, as
well as regional tensions about claims in the oil-rich  South
China Sea .  Clinton urged China and members of the the  Association of
Southeast Asian Nations  to continue negotiations over
territorial claims, expressing hopes they will make progress at
this week’s Asean meeting in  Cambodia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  