-- Talaat Plunges as Madinaty Sale Recommended Invalid: Cairo Mover
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-07-08T13:34:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/talaat-plunges-as-madinaty-sale-recommended-invalid-cairo-mover.html
Talaat Moustafa Group Holding (TMGH)  fell
the most in almost three weeks after a panel of judges issued a
recommendation that may strip  Egypt ’s largest publicly traded
real estate developer of its  biggest land asset .  The  shares  slid 7 percent, the most since June 19, to 4.4
Egyptian pounds at the 2:30 p.m. close in Cairo. The decline
trimmed the advance this year to 49 percent. The benchmark  EGX
30 Index (EGX30)  retreated 1 percent.  An Egyptian panel of judges recommended the annulment of a
revised contract that allowed the government to sell a plot of
land to Talaat Moustafa for its Madinaty project, an opinion the
company said wasn’t binding. A court session on Nov. 4 will be
held to examine appeals against a ruling by Egypt’s
 Administrative Court  that the sale was legal, Talaat Moustafa
said in a statement.  “It’s unclear why this case is still being handled by the
courts,” said Rehab Taha, Cairo-based equities analyst at Prime
Securities SAE, who has a buy recommendation on the shares.
“All indications were that it was over with the last ruling
that reaffirmed that the contract was legal. The stock should
continue to be pressured until the November hearing.”  The November 2011 ruling had allowed the company to keep
the 33-million-square-meter plot on the outskirts of Cairo that
it’s using for a residential and business development. The
original sale contract was ruled illegal in June 2010 before
being revised by the last government of former president  Hosni
Mubarak  by invoking a “national interest” clause of the law.  Amendments to the contract are “almost impossible” as it
has already been implemented, Talaat Moustafa said in its
statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  