-- Maruti Suzuki Turns to Africa to Boost Gasoline Car Sales
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-07-09T05:03:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/maruti-suzuki-turns-to-africa-to-boost-gasoline-car-sales.html
Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) ,  India ’s
biggest carmaker by volume, plans to boost exports to  Africa  and
South East Asia to utilize gasoline-engined car capacity and to
offset higher import costs after the rupee’s fall.  The unit of  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269)  aims to sell more gasoline-
engined vehicles abroad as Indians shift preference to cars
running on diesel and “mitigate exchange risks,” Chief
Financial Officer Ajay Seth said in an interview in New Delhi.
The automaker will widen its offerings in countries it already
exports to and add new markets, Shashank Srivastava, executive
officer for product planning and international markets, said.  Increased exports will help Maruti offset the costs of
importing components as the rupee has weakened 19 percent
against the dollar in the past year. Subsidized  diesel  is priced
39 percent less than  gasoline  in  New Delhi , encouraging Indians
to opt for vehicles that run on the cheaper fuel and spurring
the carmaker to push to sell more gasoline cars abroad.  “Markets such as Africa are seeing high growth and demand
for our cars,” Seth said. “Most of the markets we are looking
to export to are mainly petrol markets.”  Maruti has an annual capacity to make 1.25 million cars. It
sold 1.13 million units in the year ended March 31. The New
Delhi-based automaker is utilizing 70 percent of its 880,000
gasoline-engined cars capacity, Seth had said on June 12.  The demand for diesel-engined variants has outpaced that
for gasoline cars. Diesel-engined autos accounted for 39 percent
of the 96,597 units sold in June, said Srivastava.  Economies of Scale  Maruti’s costs for importing components has more than
doubled in the past few years because of the weakening of the
rupee, Seth said. Exports contribute 8 percent of total sales,
while it spends about 21 percent on importing components such as
electronics and diesel engine parts, he said.  “Exports will definitely help improve Maruti’s margin
through economies of scale,” said Umesh Karne, an analyst at
Brics Securities Ltd. in Mumbai. “If they manage to reach
export volume of 18,000-20,000 units a month, then it will help
earnings as it counters the unfavorable yen and dollar.”  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ’s India unit shipped 237,535 vehicles
overseas, 38 percent of its local output, in the year ended
March 31, according to the  Society of Indian Automobile
Manufacturers . Maruti dispatched 127,372 cars, and Nissan Motor
Co.’s local unit exported 100,909 units.  Maruti’s net income  margin  declined to 4.75 percent in the
12 months ended March 31 from 6.47 percent in the year-earlier
period, according to data on the Bloomberg.  Algeria, Indonesia  The  carmaker  is adding models in markets such as  Indonesia 
and Algeria which are similar to India, Srivastava said.  “These are markets that are developing and the customer
preference for cars are similar,” said Srivastava. “They want
low-end, reliable and fuel efficient cars.”  The  automaker  introduced its Dzire sedan in  Algeria  last
month, Srivastava said. It already sells Maruti 800 and Alto
hatchbacks in the North African nation. In Indonesia, it exports
kits of its Ertiga van that are assembled locally, he said.  Contribution of exports to Maruti’s sales declined to 9
percent in the year ended March 2011, from 15 percent in the
previous 12-month period, according to data on the Bloomberg.  Fuel Prices  In the past two years, new car buyers have opted for cars
that run on diesel as the price of gasoline surged in India.  Gasoline prices have climbed 41 percent since June 2010,
when rates were freed from government control, according to
Indian Oil Corp. Diesel, which is still under state control, has
risen 8.4 percent.  That prompted Maruti to bolster its lineup of diesel cars.
The Indian automaker signed an agreement, in January, to buy as
many as 100,000  diesel engines  from Turin, Italy-based  Fiat SpA (F) 
and in March said it will spend 17 billion rupees ($309 million)
to add a new line to make as many as 300,000 diesel engines
annually by 2014, expanding capacity by 50 percent.  These steps are benefiting the  company . First-quarter
Ebitda margin will rise by about 110 basis points from the
preceding period to 8.4 percent as buyers shift to higher-priced
diesel cars, Jatin Chawla and Akshay Saxena, analysts at Credit
Suisse Group AG, wrote in a note dated July 4. Ebitda stands for
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.  Shares of Maruti have surged 30 percent this year,
outperforming the 13 percent gain in the BSE India Sensitive
Index. The stock fell 1.6 percent to 1,195.80 rupees as of 10:30
a.m. in Mumbai.  Industrywide sales of passenger cars locally is estimated
to rise as much as 12 percent in the year ending March 31, the
industry group said in April. The group will review the forecast
this month.  Selling more overseas will cut dependence on “cyclical
domestic demand,” said Srivastava.  The challenge will be to get access to the appropriate
sales network in the countries targeted, said  Deepesh Rathore ,
New Delhi-based managing director of IHS Automotive in India.  “It is very important to build the dealer network as the
dealer builds the brand,” said Rathore. “If they can get the
right dealer support, then they can pull it off.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chua Kong Ho at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net  