-- Asian Values Offer No Special Sauce for Europe
-- B y   P a n k a j   M i s h r a
-- 2012-07-08T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/asian-values-offer-no-special-sauce-for-europe.html
The economic misfortunes of  Europe 
and America have inspired glee among some Asian leaders and
commentators, especially those who champion “Asian values.”
Exhorting Myanmar’s  Aung San Suu Kyi  to learn from resurgent
Asia rather than decrepit Europe, Kishore Mahbubani, the
Singaporean diplomat-turned-pundit,  pointed out  recently how
“quiet Asian pragmatism continues to deliver steady economic
growth while Europe languishes.”  Recalling how the  International Monetary Fund  prescribed
austerity to  East Asia  after the financial crisis of 1997,
Mahbubani  wrote  that many Asians feel “the time has come for you
[the West] to administer the same bitter medicine you prescribed
to us: stop living beyond your means.”  Mahathir Mohamad, who was Malaysia’s prime minister from
1981 to 2003, has also  renewed  his assault on the “double
standards” of Westerners whom “centuries of hegemony” have
convinced “they know best what is good for the world: their
values are to be accepted as universal; Asian values are deemed
irrelevant.”  Mahathir’s Mojo  Mahathir rebuffed the IMF’s prescriptions in 1997, riding
out criticism from Western leaders and media; and, for all his
transparent schadenfreude, he has a point. In 1997, Western
nations, represented by the IMF,  told  East Asian countries to
let their banks go out of business. Faced with a financial
crisis in their own backyard, Western politicians have used
taxpayers’ money to bail out lavishly remunerated bankers.  Mahathir is also right to deplore “the days of
Eurocentricism,” which he claims, a bit too confidently, “are
practically over.” Many of Asia’s leaders and intellectuals have
long chafed at the ignorant vanity and systematic
misrepresentations -- from the white man’s burden to oriental
despotism -- that made Asians seem no more than people waiting
to be made over in the West’s preferred self-image.  The Malaysian sociologist Syed Hussein Alatas and the
Japanese philosopher Takeuchi Yoshimi in the past; the novelist
Amitav Ghosh and the economist Amartya Sen in the present; or
the former Iranian President Mohammad Khatami calling for a
“Dialogue of Civilizations,” and Mahathir’s former deputy,  Anwar Ibrahim , speaking of a necessary synthesis between East and West
-- all these Asians have stressed the need to move beyond
intellectual visions and assumptions bred by Western power.  Even so, Mahathir errs when he invokes Asian values against
the apparently universal tyranny of Western values. For one, he
echoes the culturalist rhetoric that accompanied the economic
success of East Asia in the 1980s and 1990s -- what Anwar
termed, a year before he was thrown into prison on false charges
by his boss Mahathir, “an excuse for autocratic practices and
denial of basic rights and civil liberties.”  As Anwar clarified, the Asian values invoked by Mahathir
and former  Singapore  Prime Minister  Lee Kuan Yew , and many
intellectuals associated with their regimes, were explicitly
ideological and self-flattering. The oppositions they proposed
were stark: Asia’s Confucius-sanctioned communal harmony against
the West’s amoral individualism; collective welfare versus human
rights; respect for authority and discipline versus messy
democracy; hard work and thriftiness versus rash consumption;
and collaboration between government and business against
reckless laissez-faire.  Confucius Power  As though reversing a Eurocentric view of Confucius -- who
German sociologist Max Weber contended was responsible for
 China ’s backwardness -- these proponents of Asian values now
credited the sage of ancient China with the postwar success of
Japan and Singapore. The nominally communist Chinese regime of
 Jiang Zemin , too, signed up to the Asian Renaissance under
Confucian auspices, promoting a “socialist spiritual
civilization.”  The talk of Asian values often tipped into outright
chauvinism, as in the notorious tract  “The Japan That Can Say
No”  by the Japanese politician Shintaro Ishihara. Mahathir, who
co-wrote another book with Ishihara, proposed many disturbing
racial theories in his 1970 book “The Malay Dilemma.”  More damagingly, Mahathir’s and Lee’s ideas of Asian values
failed to escape the trap of Eurocentricism. As the writer Ian Buruma caustically  pointed out  once, “what the likes of Lee Kuan
Yew call Asian values are more or less the values they were
taught by their colonial schoolmasters in the days when Kuan Yew
was still called Harry. The white man’s burden has been covered
with a Confucian sauce.”  Of course, more than public-school-style caning has shaped
the political postures of East Asian leaders. Lee, as well as
Mahathir, grew up in the colonial era when nonwhites routinely
suffered racial humiliation; and it became almost mandatory for
their generation of politicians to present themselves as anti-
West revolutionaries committed to a higher idea of  Asia .
Furthermore, these men, trying to exert control over fractiously
multi-ethnic societies in the postcolonial era, found that anti-
Westernism was the best way to galvanize the masses around the
ideal of national unity.  Over the years, however, their rhetoric of Asian values and
neo-Confucianism has seemed more and more hollow -- no more than
a cover for authoritarian regimes that fervently embrace global
capitalism and snuggle up to powerful local businessmen while
denying political rights to the majority. This phenomenon is
particularly egregious in China, where the ruling elite,
struggling for a coherent ideology amid successive crises of
legitimacy, has plumped for a warmed-over Confucianism.  Blame Globalization  Does all this maneuvering sound oddly familiar? It is
because European leaders in recent years have been going on
about their national or civilizational values even as they
immerse local economies into global flows of capital and trade,
empower new elites, and open up wide inequalities. In  India ,
too, a strident Hindu nationalism accompanied the emergence of a
narrowly  prosperous  and deeply  iniquitous  society.  Politicians in the West, as well as the East, have
increasingly reached for the rhetoric of cultural nationalism,
especially as they surrender economic sovereignty to the
transnational forces of globalization.  This is not to say that the traditions of Chinese
Confucianism or European Enlightenment are a depleted cultural
and political resource; and it is too easy to dismiss Asian
critiques of Western political and economic arrangements as
manifestations of a frustrated nativism. But any talk of values
by powerful Asians ought to make us suspicious. As Anwar has
written, Asia “is in the process of coming into being. The long
and intense process of self-definition and self-understanding is
just beginning.”  And the bracing revelations yet to come will take us far
from any instrumentalist or crudely triumphalist notion of
“Asian values.”  ( Pankaj Mishra , whose new book, “From the Ruins of Empire:
The Revolt Against the West and the Remaking of Asia,” will be
published in August, is a Bloomberg View columnist, based in
 London  and Mashobra, India. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on whether it’s a  penalty or a
tax  and the  latest jobs report ; William D. Cohan on Finra’s
 captive arbitration system ; Susan P. Crawford on whether  Google
is a monopoly ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  gaming the Electoral College ;
 Simon Johnson  on  banks’ living wills ; Jed Kolko on the downside
of  rising house prices .  To contact the writer of this article:
Pankaj Mishra at  pmashobra@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net  