-- Banks’ Living Wills Don’t Defuse Systemic Risk
-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 2012-07-08T22:30:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/banks-living-wills-don-t-defuse-systemic-risk.html
On July 3, the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. and the  Federal Reserve  made public portions of
the “living wills” developed recently by major U.S. financial
institutions. The documents are the first suggestions from those
organizations of what they believe should happen when insolvency
looms.  The living wills were prepared in compliance with the 2010
 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act  and
are a major step forward in terms of revealing how global
megabanks are structured. Yet they are shockingly incomplete and
flawed in one crucial aspect: They neglect to explain how cross-
border assets and liabilities would be handled in different
legal jurisdictions.  The plans should be rejected by officials and sent back to
the banks to be revised. As these proposals now stand, they are
a blueprint for further financial disaster, and additional
taxpayer-backed bailouts. (Note: the published parts of these
wills haven’t been edited or reviewed by the FDIC or the Fed.)  To the more cynically minded, ignoring cross-border issues
is akin to planting a  poison pill  in the heart of these living
wills. When the time comes to wind down a failing megabank, the
complexities and potentially dangerous domino effects
surrounding the failure of a cross-border institution are likely
to increase pressure for a bailout that will protect creditors,
and perhaps shareholders and executives, too.  Flawed Incentives  This is exactly the wrong incentive structure for these
banks; it will encourage reckless risk-taking and compensation
programs that give management the upside in good times and, when
things go badly, the downside losses are pushed onto society.  The legislative and regulatory intent behind living wills
is straightforward and sensible. The biggest financial
institutions operating in the U.S. are being pressed to help
officials understand how best to handle a potential failure
without bringing down the financial system.  After the 2008 demise of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. the
thinking is that saying “just go bankrupt” to a large
international bank could cause a great deal of damage across
financial markets and around the world. Bankruptcy procedures
aren’t well suited to some parts of financial services where
there is a great loss of value when funding is no longer
available. Creditors are likely to recover no more than 25 cents
on the dollar from Lehman, when all is said and done.  But the biggest costs were incurred when the fall of Lehman
created fear and disrupted markets more broadly, leading
directly to the deepest recession since the 1930s.  If the bankruptcy of a large institution would result in
broad financial instability, the FDIC is charged with figuring
out how to implement  Title II  of Dodd-Frank to handle the
company’s failure. This new authority is an alternative
resolution mechanism that would allow officials to liquidate
large financial institutions in an orderly manner. The FDIC’s
responsibility turns out to be an extremely complicated and
difficult task, precisely because the largest modern banks are
so big, and are structured in Byzantine fashion. All the more
reason these living wills ultimately need to be credible. (I
serve on the FDIC’s Systemic Resolution Advisory Committee, but
that panel’s role is only to provide feedback in a public
forum.)  The plans available so far are from five of the six largest
U.S. financial institutions:  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of
America Corp. ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
 Morgan Stanley. (MS)   Wells Fargo & Co . hasn’t submitted a will, which
is interesting given that the bank is  spending a fortune  on
lobbying and is definitely in the “too-big-to-fail” category (as
the country’s fourth-largest institution by assets).  Holding Companies  Each of the U.S. filers has at least two living wills, one
for the holding company and one for the bank; Bank of America
has a third for its card services. Some of the largest European
banks operating in the U.S. are also represented:  Barclays Plc (BCS) ,
 Deutsche Bank AG (DB) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS)  and  UBS AG (UBSN) ; other
international players have yet to show their hand (I’m very
interested in what the French have to say).  There is useful information here -- particularly in the way
that some banks emphasize that parts of operations could be
valuable when broken off and sold (JPMorgan makes this point).
Executives of these megabanks sometimes suggest that their
businesses could only exist in the behemoth size, though that
isn’t the implication of these living wills.  The important consideration, however, is how assets and
liabilities would be handled when there are cross-border
operations and markets, or when officials start to fear that a
collapse may be imminent. What assets can be moved and under
what conditions? What can be seized by responsible legal
authorities in various countries?  And how will client money be protected in this situation?
As seen in the  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  case, the treatment of
customers and other claimants in  London  and in  New York  can be
very different.  These international banks like to book their business in
various jurisdictions, driven by tax or accounting convenience
or regulatory requirements (in the sense of getting around such
requirements). The result is a tangle of obligations within the
“banks,” that is across the various legal entities that are
owned by the holding company, some of which are banks and some
of which aren’t.  Ideally, these banks should be organized as separate legal
entities, each with its own capital -- and each able to fail “on
its own,” without bringing down the rest of the business. There
should be no cross-guarantees or other hidden ways of sharing
assets and liabilities.  To the extent that any financial institution operates
across borders, it should have to justify the social benefit,
and explain precisely and in a public manner how this cross-
border activity is structured to avoid a  systemic risk .  The living-will exercise should be an opportunity for
officials to force the global megabanks to simplify along
national lines and to build up their equity capital.
Unfortunately, while some officials are inclined to push in that
direction, other powerful figures -- including at the U.S.
Treasury Department and within the  Federal Reserve  System -- are
surprisingly complacent regarding the status quo.  Ultimately, all these living wills are likely to achieve is
to illustrate further that that our largest financial
institutions still constitute a time bomb, ticking quietly near
the center of the global economy.  ( Simon Johnson , a professor at the  MIT Sloan School of
Management  as well as a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute
for International Economics, is a co-author of “White House
Burning: The Founding Fathers, Our National Debt, and Why It
Matters to You.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on whether it’s a  penalty or a
tax  and the  latest jobs report ; William D. Cohan on Finra’s
 captive arbitration system ; Susan P. Crawford on whether  Google
is a monopoly ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  gaming the Electoral College ;
 Pankaj Mishra  on the false promise of  Asian values ; Jed Kolko on
the downside of  rising house prices .  To contact the writer of this article: Simon Johnson at
 sjohnson@mit.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Max Berley
at  mberley@bloomberg.net . 