-- Barnier Seeks to Widen EU Rules to Bar Libor Manipulation
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   C o n n a n   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-07-08T14:20:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/barnier-seeks-to-widen-eu-market-abuse-rules-to-include-libor.html
European Union Financial Services
Commissioner  Michel Barnier  said he plans to widen EU rules on
market abuse to outlaw the manipulation of the London interbank
offered rate.  “I’ll propose to widen the field of application to
effectively cover the manipulation of indexes, which includes
Libor,” Barnier said today in an interview in Aix-en-Provence,
 France .  Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s second-largest bank by assets, was
fined 290 million pounds ($449.3 million) on June 27 for rigging
Libor, a global benchmark, for profit. Chairman Marcus Agius,
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  and Chief Operating
Officer Jerry Del Missier subsequently resigned.  “Anyone thinking of manipulating markets needs to know
they’ll face sanctions, including possibly criminal ones,”
Barnier said.  Arlene McCarthy , the lawmaker leading work in the EU
parliament on the draft law on market abuse, said last week she
and Barnier discussed how the bloc’s rules should be extended to
ensure that manipulation of interbank lending rates is treated
as a criminal offense.  Criminal Probes  The U.K. Serious Fraud Office opened a criminal probe on
July 6 and the  U.S. Department of Justice  is also investigating
how derivatives traders and rate submitters colluded to rig
interbank offered rates. The EU’s antitrust department is
conducting a separate probe into Libor and Euribor, its
equivalent in euros, rate manipulation.  As part of the U.S. and U.K. settlements, Barclays admitted
rigging the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, and
Euribor, as early as 2005. In testimony to the U.K. Parliament
last week, Diamond apologized and said 14 Barclays traders were
involved.  Citigroup Inc.,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , UBS AG,
ICAP Plc, Lloyds Banking Group Plc and Deutsche Bank AG are
among the lenders regulators are investigating. About 18 banks
are surveyed as part of the process of determining Libor rates.  Libor and Euribor are calculated by a survey of banks’
daily estimates of how much it would cost them to borrow from
one another for different time frames and in different
currencies. Because submissions aren’t based on real trades, the
potential exists for the benchmark to be manipulated by traders
seeking to profit on where the rate is set.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Connan in London at 
 cconnan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  