-- Boeing Defers Wide-Body Strategy Choices to Canvass Airlines
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-07-09T18:05:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/boeing-defers-wide-body-strategy-choices-to-seek-airlines-views.html
Boeing Co. (BA) ’s new commercial-jet chief
wants to confer with airlines about upgraded versions of the
popular wide-body 777 and 787 Dreamliner before taking any new
designs to the company’s board.  The planemaker isn’t looking to meet a goal set by former
Commercial Airplanes President  Jim Albaugh  to present a 777
update proposal to directors in 2012, successor Ray Conner said
yesterday. He said Boeing still plans a stretched version of the
787, while declining to give any timing for an announcement.  “We’re spending the time right now with our customers
making sure we that have the right products in place and the
right technologies,” Conner told reporters in  London  on the eve
of the Farnborough air show. “We don’t have a specific
timetable. This is more about getting the airplanes right.”  New designs for the models are among the biggest decisions
facing Conner, Boeing’s former sales leader, after Albaugh’s
surprise retirement in June. Conner said there will be no major
strategy shifts as Boeing seeks to boost output to pare a record
order backlog and vies with Airbus SAS for market share.  Airbus’s stumbles with the A350-1000, the largest version
of its new A350 family, have given Chicago-based Boeing some
breathing room as it studies upgrades to its biggest twin-engine
planes. Toulouse, France-based Airbus hasn’t won a new A350
order since 2008 and has only four customers for the plane.  British Airways  British Airways Plc, one of Boeing’s biggest 777 customers,
would like answers sooner rather than later, said  Willie Walsh ,
chief executive officer of parent  International Consolidated
Airlines Group SA. (IAG)   “If they’re going to develop something that’s going to be
a step change, we want visibility around that,” Walsh said
today in an interview at the Farnborough International Air Show.
“The 777 is a fantastic aircraft and my biggest regret is that
I didn’t order even more earlier. But it’s difficult to commit
to an aircraft knowing that something’s going to overtake it.”  British Airways’ orders for 777s total 51, spread among
multiple models, according to Boeing’s website.  On the 787, Conner said the supply chain is performing well
as Boeing boosts output to 10 jets a month by the end of 2013.
He said modifications are going well on the 787s that rolled off
the assembly line months ago as the planemaker endured more than
three years of delays on the composite-plastic jet.  Wide-Body Market  Wide-body planes are important to Boeing because they can
cost about four times as much as single-aisle aircraft, and it’s
a segment where the U.S. company leads. Boeing’s wide-body
backlog was 1,367 planes through the first quarter, compared
with 1,067 for Airbus, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Conner used the meeting with reporters to give an overview
of Boeing’s  commercial business  as the planemaker prepares for
briefings and customer visits at the Farnborough show outside
London. The event is held in alternate years with an expo in
Paris, forming the aerospace industry’s highest-profile forum
for discussing new products.  The longer Dreamliner, known as the 787-10, will be a
“simple stretch,” Conner said, echoing the view his
predecessor laid out in a May 15 meeting with analysts.  777 Options  The 787-10 will have a range of about 6,800 nautical miles
(12,600 kilometers), carry 300 to 330 passengers, and have a 25
percent advantage over the current  Airbus A330  in the cost to
fly each seat a mile, Conner said. The 787-9 can fly as far as
8,500 nautical miles and accommodate as many as 290 people,
according to Boeing’s website.  Boeing is considering all options on the 777X, as the new
version of that plane is known, Conner said yesterday, after
Albaugh told analysts in May that the new plane, Boeing’s
biggest twin-engine model, would have new wings and engines.  “We’re looking at everything at this moment,” Conner said
of the 777X. “We’re very comfortable with the process. We’re
comfortable where we are. When we get it figured out, then
that’s when we’ll go forward.”  Conner said his goals are to ensure production increases go
smoothly to meet customer demand, reach an agreement with
Boeing’s engineering union later this year, hire good talent as
output expands and make the decisions on the wide-body planes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in London at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  