-- Boeing Said to Win GE Jet Order as Aeromexico Nears Deal
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n ,   T i m   C a t t s   a n d   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a
-- 2012-07-09T08:57:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/boeing-said-to-win-order-from-ge-jet-leasing-unit-for-100-737s.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  is poised to win an order
for 100 737 narrow-body aircraft from  General Electric Co. (GE) ’s
jet-leasing unit, a boost in the U.S. company’s competition with
Airbus SAS, two people with knowledge of the transaction said.  GE Capital Aviation Services’ purchase includes 75 upgraded
737 MAX planes, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because they aren’t authorized to discuss the deal. The list
value would be $9.25 billion based on prices for the 737-800,
the current jet’s most-popular model, and its MAX equivalent.  “Lessors have raised cash in the past few months, and
they’re going to use that to place orders,” said  Yan Derocles ,
an Oddo Securities analyst in Paris. “They suffered a lot
during the financial crisis and the likes of Gecas also expected
more of a downturn in demand, so there’s a gap in orders for
them to make up from the 2008-2010 period.”  The planned order comes as the Farnborough air show, the
year’s highest-profile aerospace trade event, begins today near
 London .  Grupo Aeromexico SAB (AEROMEX*)  is close to the purchase of about
70 mainly single-aisle jets, though that sale probably won’t be
done during the expo, a person familiar with those talks said.  Aeromexico is considering Airbus SAS’s A320neo and some
A350 wide-bodies, as well as the MAX and Boeing 787-9
Dreamliner, the person said. Boeing has the upper hand after
Commercial Airplanes Chief Executive Officer Ray Conner sent a
sales team to Mexico to secure the order, two other people said.  Lessor Orders  Boeing is seeking more MAX buyers among aircraft lessors
such as Gecas as it develops the fuel-efficient MAX to replace
its top-selling 737. Leasing companies place planes with
multiple airlines, which would broaden the base for the MAX
before its 2017 commercial debut.  While lessors represent about 35 percent of the installed
airliner base, they account for only 20 percent or so of
planemakers’ current backlog, said Derocles, who has a buy
rating on Airbus parent European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.  Eric Jones, a Gecas spokesman, said the company doesn’t
comment on speculation about orders, and  Marc Birtel , a Boeing
spokesman, declined to comment.  Global Fleet  Narrow-body planes form the bulk of the global airline
fleet, and Airbus got an eight-month head start on the A320neo
by unveiling it in December 2010. That set up a rout of Boeing
at the  Paris air show  in June 2011 as the A320neo amassed
hundreds of firm purchases and commitments, and it wasn’t until
the following month that Boeing said it would offer the MAX.  Boeing has received 451 firm orders and hundreds more
commitments for the 737 MAX, according to airlines’
announcements and the company’s website tally through June.  The MAX will be powered exclusively by new engines from  CFM
International , a joint venture between Fairfield, Connecticut-
based GE and Paris-based  Safran SA. (SAF)   Aeromexico would consider splitting its plane order between
Boeing and Airbus, one person said. Negotiations are continuing,
the person said.  Spokesmen for Toulouse, France-based Airbus and Boeing
declined to comment about the pending purchase from Aeromexico,
Mexico’s largest airline. Calls and e-mails to the Aeromexico’s
investor relations offices in Mexico City seeking comment
yesterday weren’t returned.  An order of 70 aircraft would be valued at about $6.66
billion, based on the $95.2 million price tag of the 737 MAX 8.
Customers typically buy airliners at a discount. The 787-8 has a
list price of $193.5 million.  Aeromexico sold shares to the public last year, and the
carrier has arranged financing to expand its fleet. The company
said last month it has received $171 million in financing from
the Export-Import Bank to finance three 737s.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Farnborough, England, at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Catts in Farnborough, England, at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Enrique Arrioja in  Mexico  City at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  