-- Boston Red Sox Beat New York Yankees 9-5 to Split Doubleheader
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h   a n d   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-07-08T04:47:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/boston-red-sox-beat-new-york-yankees-9-5-to-split-doubleheader.html
Pedro Ciriaco hit a three-run double
in the sixth inning, then stole a base and scored in the seventh
as the Boston  Red Sox  ended their five-game losing streak with a
9-5 win in the night half of a split doubleheader against the
New York Yankees.  In the earlier game yesterday,  Andruw Jones  hit two home
runs and  Nick Swisher  and Jayson Nix had one each as the Major
League Baseball-leading Yankees won 6-1 to capture the first two
of the four-game series at Fenway Park in Boston.  In the night game,  Mark Teixeira  hit a three-run homer off
Felix Doubront to give the Yankees a 3-0 advantage in the first
inning.  “Every victory is important, but it’s good to beat these
guys, and it’s good to come back,” Red Sox manager  Bobby
Valentine  said. “It seemed like they were going to score early
and keep us down. But the guys were determined to come back off
the floor.”  Mauro Gomez scored in the third inning when Daniel Nava
grounded into a double play. Ciriaco, called up two days ago to
replace the injured Dustin Pedroia, scored in the fifth on Nick Punto’s sacrifice fly before his bases-clearing double in the
sixth gave Boston a 5-3 lead.  “It was a grind today,” Yankees pitcher  Phil Hughes  said.
“There were runners all over out there. They really broke
through with that bases-loaded double.”  Ryan Sweeney tripled and scored on Gomez’s double in
Boston’s four-run seventh.  Mike Aviles , running for Gomez,
reached home on an error by Nix before Ciriaco stole third and
then scored on a throwing error by catcher  Russell Martin .  Season-high Errors  The Yankees committed a season-high four errors, leading to
two unearned runs.  “It was part of our downfall,” Yankee manager  Joe Girardi 
told reporters. “That and giving up the two-out hits. It
stretches innings. In the fifth, we gave them an extra out and
in the sixth we gave them one, too.”  Jones hit a solo home run in the seventh for the Yankees,
who trailed 5-4 and  Eric Chavez  added another in the ninth.  Doubront (9-4) gave up four runs on four hits and struck
out six in 6 1/3 innings for the win. Hughes (9-7) surrendered
five runs on 10 hits in 5 1/3 innings in taking the loss.  In the first game of the doubleheader, the Yankees scored
four times in the top of the first inning against Franklin Morales when Swisher hit a 3-run homer and Jones followed with a
solo shot. Jones and Nix then made it 6-0 with consecutive
homers leading off the fourth.  Gomez drove in the only run for the Red Sox in the bottom
of the fourth with a single.  New York starter  Freddy Garcia  (3-2) allowed one run in 6
2/3 innings for the win, while Morales (1-2) took the loss after
giving up six runs in 3 1/3 innings.  The Yankees (51-33) have the best record in the majors,
one-half game ahead of the Texas Rangers. The Red Sox (43-42)
are in fourth place, 8 1/2 games behind the Yankees in the
American League East.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net 
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  