-- BP Says Still in Talks with Abu Dhabi on Oil-Production Rights
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t   a n d   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2012-07-08T08:24:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/bp-says-still-in-talks-with-abu-dhabi-on-oil-production-rights.html
BP Plc (BP/)  said it’s still in talks with
 Abu Dhabi  about renewing rights to produce oil in the Middle
Eastern emirate, after a report indicated the London-based crude
producer had been excluded from negotiations.  “Constructive discussions are taking place at all
levels,” David Nicholas, a BP spokesman, said July 6. “This is
all part of doing business.” An official at Abu Dhabi National
Oil Co., the state-run producer known as Adnoc, had no comment
on the report when contacted by Bloomberg today, asking not to
be identified in line with company policy.  Adnoc excluded BP from the list of companies it asked to
bid for production rights at onshore fields, Petroleum
Intelligence Weekly reported last week, without identifying
where it got the information.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Total SA (FP) , Royal
Dutch Shell Plc,  Statoil ASA (STL)  and  Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY) 
received invitations to prequalify for bidding, PIW said in a
newsletter dated July 9.  Abu Dhabi, capital of the United Arab Emirates, holds most
of the nation’s oil, and Adnoc pumps crude and natural gas from
onshore and undersea deposits in joint ventures with
international partners. One of the ventures, Abu Dhabi Co. for
Onshore Oil Operations, known also as Adco, manages the main
concession for the sheikhdom’s largest onshore fields. The
agreement will expire in 2014, and Adnoc is in discussions to
renew it or reach separate accords with new partners.  Adnoc Director General Abdulla Nasser Al Suwaidi said in
April that the producer was shortlisting the companies it would
ask for bids to help pump and expand on Adco’s 1.4 million
barrel-a-day of output.  BP,  Exxon Mobil , Shell, Total and Partex Oil & Gas -- or
their predecessor companies -- have been producing oil in Abu
Dhabi since 1939. Adnoc joined them as a partner in the 1970s,
creating the Adco concession, which holds rights for six
deposits until 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  