-- Real Estate Prices Are Going Back Up
-- B y   J e d   K o l k o
-- 2012-07-08T22:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/brace-yourself-real-estate-prices-are-going-back-up.html
House prices , after falling for more
than five years, are rising again. All the major sales-price
 indexes  show that there have been modest national increases in
recent months, even after adjusting for seasonal patterns.  When foreclosures and distressed sales are excluded from
the data, prices are up even more. And we should expect further
gains: The  asking-price index , a leading indicator of sales
prices, published by Trulia Inc. (where I work), climbed at an
annualized rate of 3.3 percent in the second quarter of this
year, adjusted for mix and seasonality, and rose in 84 of the
100 largest U.S. metropolitan areas.  Of course, if the  U.S. economy  falters, due to a deepening
of the economic crisis in  Europe  or a wave of foreclosures,
prices may reverse. For now, though, the increases are
widespread. For the real-estate market and housing policy, this
is cause for relief, but also for some concern.  One immediate effect of the price turnaround is that
inventory tightens. In the past year, beginning even before
prices rose, the inventory of listed homes shrank 20 percent,
due to fewer foreclosures for sale and little new construction.
Smaller inventory contributes to price increases; when there are
fewer homes available, sellers can ask more. In some local
markets, bidding wars have returned. Now, rising prices could
even accelerate the decrease in inventory in the short term, as
buyers act quickly in hopes of paying as little as possible, and
sellers hold off listing their homes in anticipation of further
price increases. In fact, 61 percent of people do expect prices
in their local market to rise in the next year, according to a
recent  Trulia survey .  Sales Effect  In the longer term, if rising prices last, inventory will
grow. Higher prices will encourage more owners to sell,
including some who have been “underwater” on their mortgages,
as well as banks holding portfolios of foreclosed homes.  Rising prices will also cue housing developers to
accelerate  construction . After overbuilding during the real-
estate bubble, the  construction industry  has been very slow to
recover. New-home starts are still less than half of normal
levels, and construction jobs now account for a smaller share of
economy-wide employment -- 4.1 percent -- than at any time since
1946. If rising prices nudge construction closer to normal, the
housing market might finally contribute to, rather than hold
back, the general economic recovery.  Rising prices should also take some pressure off policy
makers to “fix” the housing market, and make some mortgage-
modification programs more feasible. In particular, shared-
appreciation loan modifications -- in which a lender or
government agency reduces the amount of principal a borrower
owes in exchange for a share of any future price appreciation --
become possible when there is a reasonable chance that prices
will go up. Crucially, underwater borrowers -- those owing more
on their mortgages than the property is worth -- who expect
prices to rise have less incentive to default on their loans and
abandon their homes.  Yet along with rising prices come two serious concerns.  First, higher prices make homes harder to afford again.
When prices plummeted post-bubble, concerns about affordability
faded. Even now rents are gaining faster than  home prices ,
according to the Trulia Rent Monitor, which makes owning a
better bargain than renting. Still, rising prices make it harder
for renters to buy. And, in markets such as coastal  California 
and  New York  City, where new construction is limited by
geography and regulations, high prices put homeownership out of
reach for many residents.  Building Rules  While  San Francisco  is too beautiful and  Manhattan  too
productive ever to become cheap places to live, local policy
makers could make homes in expensive cities easier to afford by
loosening restrictions on new construction. They could allow
higher densities, as California is attempting to do near transit
stations. In  Washington , they could relax the height limit. And
everywhere they could simplify and clarify the rules for
approving projects. More construction in cities would mean less
of it pushed out to sprawling exurban areas, where overbuilding
during the bubble led to some of the nation’s most widespread
foreclosures.  The second reason for concern over rising prices is that
they fuel optimism. Some optimism is desirable, but unchecked
optimism creates bubbles. In a recent Trulia survey, 58 percent
of people said they expect prices in their local market to
return to their previous peak in the next 10 years. In
Pittsburgh, Houston and other markets where prices slipped only
slightly during the recession, it’s plausible that they will
again reach their previous peak. But even in the hardest-hit
markets, such as  Las Vegas  and  Sacramento , where prices rose to
unsustainable levels and then fell by half or more, 56 percent
of people still expect them to rise to their previous peak in
the next 10 years. Such optimism can lead to a bubble if people
pay more for homes that they expect to appreciate.  To ensure that rising prices and renewed optimism don’t
inflate a new bubble, we must not encourage homeownership and
housing construction beyond what our income and demographics can
support.  Although  full recovery  in housing is still years off,
rising prices will start reshaping the market right away -- for
better and for worse.  (Jed Kolko is the chief economist at Trulia Inc., the
online real-estate marketplace. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on whether it’s a  penalty or a
tax  and the  latest jobs report ; William D. Cohan on Finra’s
 captive arbitration system ; Susan P. Crawford on whether  Google
is a monopoly ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  gaming the Electoral College ;
 Simon Johnson  on  banks’ living wills ;  Pankaj Mishra  on the false
promise of  Asian values .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jed Kolko at  jed@trulia.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  