-- Bruce Springsteen Preaches, Jack White Picks Women Band
-- B y   G e l u   S u l u g i u c
-- 2012-07-08T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/bruce-springsteen-preaches-jack-white-picks-women-band-review.html
Bruce Springsteen  morphed into a
gospel minister and drove fans to tears with an ode to his long-
time saxophonist, Clarence Clemons, who died last year.  Also at the weekend Roskilde festival in  Denmark , Jack
White led an all-female band through a tight set, while  Robert Smith  showed that the Cure can still deliver three hours of dark
anthems laced with snappy hits regardless of who is backing him.  “Are we missing anybody?”, Springsteen asked repeatedly
during a soulful rendition of “Spirit in the Night,” setting
off a call-and-response interaction with the 82,500-strong
crowd. “I can hear him tonight in your voices,” he said.  Later in the set, during “Tenth Avenue Freeze-Out,”
Springsteen and his group suddenly stopped and remained
motionless and silent as video screens played images from
Clemons’s 40-year career alongside them.  First, “the Boss” introduced the “legendary, history-
making, Viagra-taking E Street Band.” They tore into a three-
hour performance with fury and joie-de-vivre in “No Surrender”
and “Badlands.”  Wearing blue jeans, a dark-blue fitted shirt with rolled-up
sleeves and a black vest, the 62-year-old singer sweated as he
ran repeatedly off stage and into the crowd.  Atop Piano  Newer songs such as “We Take Care of Our Own” and
“ Wrecking Ball ” were received warmly, as the audience accepted
Springsteen’s challenge to “bring it on,” which he delivered
after climbing on top of the piano. The encore took in “Born in
the U.S.A.,” “Born to Run,” “Glory Days” and “Dancing in
the Dark.”  Members of the hip-hop group the Roots joined during “The
E Street Shuffle” and a raucous closer, “Twist and Shout.”  Northern Europe’s biggest festival has a relaxed atmosphere
with a gathering of stars and cutting-edge artists.  Bon Iver attracted the biggest crowd outside of the main
stage with a trance-inducing indie-folk set. U.S. rapper  Mac
Miller  showed hints of psychedelia and potential to become the
next Eminem.  Jack White , who brought two bands on tour, picked the all-
female lineup, giving the all-men version the day off. The five
women wore airy white dresses and provided a solid musical
background for his forays into blues, R&B and rock.  White wore a black suit, white boots and white hat. An
intense version of “Carolina Drama” from his Raconteurs days
was followed by his biggest hit, the White Stripes’ “Seven
Nation Army.” It sounded like a soccer chant when the crowd
continued to sing it long after the show was over.  The Cure seamlessly shifted from brooding to playful to
angry in a set laden with favorites such as “Just Like
Heaven,” “One Hundred Years” and “Friday I’m in Love.”  With original Cure guitarist Porl Thompson once again out
of the lineup, ex-David Bowie guitarist Reeves Gabrels acquitted
himself well.  Frontman Smith sang about getting old without sounding like
he was anywhere near being ready “to retire, grow a beard and
start writing film music,” as he had once contemplated. His
band is as fresh as ever.  For more information, see  http://www.roskilde-festival.dk/ .  Ratings: **** for Springsteen, ***½ White, *** the Cure.  (Gelu Sulugiuc writes for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine,  Richard Vines 
on food,  Martin Gayford  on art and  Zinta Lundborg’s  interviews.  To contact the writer on the story:
Gelu Sulugiuc in Copenhagen at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 