-- Cable Urges ‘Strict View’ From Barclays on Diamond’s Deal
-- B y   A n d r e w   A t k i n s o n
-- 2012-07-09T10:07:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/cable-urges-barclays-to-take-strict-view-on-diamond-package.html
U.K. opposition leader Ed Miliband
demanded more competition among banks and a new code of conduct
for bankers in the wake of the Libor scandal that cost  Barclays (BARC) 
Plc a record fine and three top executives their jobs,  The big five U.K. banks should become at least seven, with
existing lenders forced to sell off hundreds of branches, the
Labour Party leader said in a speech in London today. He
proposed that wrongdoers who break professional rules should be
“struck off” so they can never work for banks in Britain
again.  “There isn’t proper competition in our banking system,”
Miliband said. “Companies that think consumers have no choice
are more likely to behave in predatory ways.”  The U.K. Serious Fraud Office said July 6 it is opening a
criminal probe into the attempted manipulation of London
interbank offered rates that led to a 290 million-pound ($449
million) fine against Barclays, the second-largest U.K. bank by
assets. The scandal has claimed the jobs of Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Diamond , Chairman Marcus Agius and Chief
Operating Officer Jerry Del Missier.  Miliband urged the setting-up of a new financial crime unit
at the SFO and said Labour would set up a British Investment
Bank to boost credit for small businesses. He accused the
government of watering down proposals to shield the consumer
operations of banks and said more should be done to tackle
excessive bonuses  -- “people taking home in a week what other
people earn in a lifetime.”  ‘Another Outrage’  Business Secretary Vince Cable urged Barclays yesterday to
avoid provoking “another outrage” by limiting the severance
package given to Diamond.  “There isn’t anything government can directly do about it,
but in view of the shame that’s already been heaped on Barclays
bank, I’d be very, very surprised if the chairman of the board
were to allow another outrage,” Cable told  BBC  television
yesterday.  Barclays’s board will ask Diamond to give up at least part
of a possible 17 million-pound package, the Sunday Telegraph
reported, without saying where it got the information.
Discussions have taken place with the  Association of British
Insurers , the trade group that represents billions of pounds of
pension funds’ investments, the newspaper said.  Ed Balls , Labour’s top finance spokesman, said the amount
Diamond is potentially entitled to will be seen as “totally
outrageous” and urged Barclays to “think really hard” about
it.  ‘It is totally outrageous that somebody can stand aside
because the board decides there’s a problem and then get a
payout which is off the scale of anything normal people will
earn in their lifetimes,” Balls told the BBC. “How can that
be?”  Cable said yesterday that leading banks were “anti-
business” and “throttling” the recovery by withholding credit
from growing companies. The Bank of England’s asset-buying
program “is necessary but not sufficient,” he said. “There
has been a breakdown in the mechanism. It just doesn’t get
through to companies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Atkinson in  London  at 
 a.atkinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Atkinson at 
 a.atkinson@bloomberg.net  