-- Cable Denies Liberal Democrats Making Threats Over Lords Bill
-- B y   A n d r e w   A t k i n s o n
-- 2012-07-08T14:39:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/cable-denies-liberal-democrats-making-threats-over-lords-bill.html
U.K. Business Secretary Vince Cable
denied that his Liberal Democrat party is threatening its
Conservative coalition partner as tensions mount over plans to
overhaul the House of Lords.  A former aide to Liberal Democrat leader  Nick Clegg  last
week suggested the party may oppose parliamentary boundary
changes that would benefit the Conservatives if the Tories block
the introduction of elections to the House of Lords, a priority
for the smaller party.  A bill to reform Parliament’s upper chamber, currently
largely made up of political appointees, faces its first major
obstacle in a House of Commons vote this week when lawmakers in
the lower House of Commons vote on a “program motion” to
restrict the amount of time that can be spent debating it. Many
Tories are preparing to join the opposition  Labour Party  in
voting against the motion, Conservative lawmaker, Andrew
Griffiths, said last month.  “We’re not talking about walking away from the coalition -
- that isn’t an issue,” Cable told BBC television’s “Andrew
Marr Show” today. “But there is absolutely no reason why this
vote should be lost. All three parties agree on House of Lords
reform. They all agree that we should have an elected House of
Lords, that the present system is completely unsustainable.”  The bill, introduced by Clegg on June 27, would cut the
size of the House of Lords by almost a half. As many as 78
percent of its members would be elected and the remainder
appointed, serving single 15-year terms. The appointed members
currently hold seats for life.  The current 816-member chamber, made up of 675 appointees
and 92 members of the nobility, as well as senior judges and
Church of  England  bishops, would be replaced with 360 members
elected on a proportional-representation system, 90 appointees,
12 bishops and others appointed by a prime minister to serve as
a government minister.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Atkinson in London at 
 a.atkinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  