-- Cellcom Premium Widens on Cheaper Plans: Israel Overnight
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2012-07-08T14:27:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/cellcom-premium-widens-on-cheaper-plans-israel-overnight.html
Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL)  surged the most
on record, narrowing the gap with U.S. shares on speculation
that an investor is preparing to buy a stake and after
announcing a plan that may boost fixed-line revenue.  The shares  advanced  8.4 percent to 26.55 shekels, or the
equivalent of $6.73, at the 4:30 p.m. close in  Tel Aviv .
Cellcom, Israel’s largest wireless provider, closed at $6.94 in
 New York  trading on July 6.  “There are rumors in the market about potential buyers for
a holding in Cellcom,” Liat Glazer, an analyst at Excellence
Nessuah Investment House Ltd., said today by phone.  Cellcom, the worst  performer  in the TA-25 benchmark index
this year, is selling all-inclusive voice, data and messaging
packages for families, after mounting competition in the
telecommunications industry slashed revenue. Israeli providers
from  Hot Telecommunication System Ltd. (HOT)  to Golan Telecom Ltd. are
offering customers unlimited packages at reduced costs.  Gilad Alper, a senior analyst at Excellence Nessuah, said
that while he couldn’t comment on who may be interested in a
Cellcom stake, “a new controlling shareholder can fix the
business model to make the company leaner, increasing the net
income significantly.”  Discount Investment Co. (DISI)  currently owns a controlling
47 percent stake in Cellcom. The holding company is owned by  IDB
Holding Corp. (IDBH)  and is part of Israeli businessman Nochi Dankner’s
corporate investments. Dankner said in a Channel 2 interview in
May that he would be willing to sell some companies under his
control to pay back debts to investors.  ‘Weak’ Liquidity  On May 14, Standard & Poor’s Maalot downgraded IDB’s credit
rating three levels to ilBBB-, the lowest investment grade, from
ilA-, citing “weak” liquidity.  Cellcom’s package for families will include unlimited local
and international fixed-line services and Internet, the company
said on July 5.  “Investors like the new package because they expect this
may increase Cellcom’s growth in the fixed-line sector, where it
is weak, and may help curb its loss of share in the wireless
market,” Gil Dattner, an equity analyst at  Bank Leumi Le-Israel (LUMI) 
Ltd., said by phone.  Rami Levi Chain Stores Hashikma Marketing 2006 Ltd. (RMLI) , a
supermarket operator that started mobile-phone services in
December, said last week it will offer unlimited wireless
packages at lower prices.  Partner Communications Co. (PTNR) , Israel’s
second-largest wireless provider, said on June 20 it plans to
set up a new low-cost wireless brand.  Cheap Offerings  The operators join competitors Hot and Golan, which started
offering unlimited plans for less than 100 shekels a month, or
about $25, in May.  Cellcom will probably post sales of 1.6 billion shekels in
the third quarter, the first three-month period in which revenue
from the family package will be reflected, according to the mean
 estimate  of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. That compares
with sales of 1.7 billion shekels in the year-earlier period.  Partner shares added 2.3 percent, their biggest increase
since July 1, to 15.29 shekels. Hot added 2.9 percent to 31.06
shekels.  Bezeq Israeli Telecommunication Corp. (BEZQ)  fell 0.2 percent
to 4.10 shekels.  Partner has declined 55 percent and Cellcom has fallen
58 percent since the beginning of the year. That compares with a
2.3 percent decline in the Bloomberg Industries Index of 16
wireless providers in the  Middle East  and Africa.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  