-- China Railway Materials Plans Shanghai IPO to Fund Growth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-08T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/china-railway-materials-plans-shanghai-ipo-to-fund-growth.html
China Railway Materials Co. , a state-
owned logistics firm and steel supplier, aims to raise as much
as 6 billion  yuan  ($943 million) selling shares in  Shanghai  to
fund expansion.  The Beijing-based company will probably sell no more than
2.77 billion shares in Shanghai, according to a prospectus
posted on the  China  Securities Regulatory Commission’s website
late on July 6. It may also offer as many as 1.44 billion shares
in  Hong Kong , including any over-allotment, the company said.  Proceeds from the Shanghai sale will go mainly to expand
the company’s domestic logistic bases and operating networks and
to replenish working capital. Funds raised in the Hong Kong
offering, which is subject to regulatory approval, market
conditions and investor confidence, will be used to set up
overseas outlets, repay bank loans and boost capital, according
to the prospectus.  Selling shares may be a challenge in a market where
investor appetite has weakened amid  Europe ’s debt crisis and
China’s economic slowdown. Initial public offerings on the
Shanghai and Shenzhen bourses in the first half of the year
raised 77.5 billion yuan, PriceWaterhouseCoopers said in July.
That compares with 286.1 billion yuan in all of 2011, said the
auditing firm, which forecast 200 to 250 billion yuan worth of
China share sales this year.  Accelerate IPOs  A regulatory priority this year in China is to keep
accelerating listings by state-owned enterprises, according to
Ernst & Young.  Inner Mongolia Yitai Coal Co. (900948) , China’s biggest producer of
the fuel in the region bordering Mongolia, is cutting its fund-
raising in Hong Kong to $1.1 billion from $1.5 billion,
according to terms obtained by Bloomberg News.  China Railway Materials highlighted risks, including
uncertainties about investment in China’s railway industry,
slowing demand for steel and competition, according to the
prospectus. The company boosted profit 47 percent to 1 billion
yuan on revenue of 207 billion yuan in 2011, according to the
prospectus.  CITIC Securities Co. is the lead underwriter for its
Shanghai offering.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  