-- Colin Marshall, Who Turned Around British Airways, Dies at 78
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d   a n d   C h a r l e s   W .   S t e v e n s
-- 2012-07-08T02:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/colin-marshall-who-turned-around-british-airways-dies-at-78.html
Colin Marshall, the British-born,
American-trained executive whose flair for marketing was
credited for the turnaround of  British Airways (IAG)  starting in the
1980s, has died. He was 78.  He died on July 5, the Times of  London  reported, without
citing a cause.  As chief executive from 1983 to 1995 and chairman from 1993
to 2004, Marshall oversaw the transformation of British Airways
into a premiere aviation brand. Among other steps, he emphasized
 customer service  with a program called “Putting People First.”  “I was anxious to inculcate its principles into the minds
of front-line people -- those who had direct contact with
passengers, including people in customer-service jobs, check-in
agents, flight attendants, pilots and reservations agents,”
Marshall told W. Warner Burke and William Trahant for their 2000
book, “Business Climate Shifts: Profiles of Change Makers.”  He said he had first-hand knowledge of the airline’s
weaknesses, since he had been a frequent trans-Atlantic flier
from 1971 to 1981 when he was a New York-based executive for
Avis:  “I knew that passengers didn’t get much service. I knew it
not only from my own experience, but because I heard others talk
about it, as well. The most serious thing I observed, though,
was the low morale among employees. Passengers experienced
airline employees as really lacking in enthusiasm for their
jobs.”  Alliance Builder  British Airways became a private company in 1987, following
13 years as a state-run carrier, and Marshall became a director
of the New York Stock Exchange. He was instrumental to the
formation in 1999 of Oneworld, the alliance among British
Airways,  American Airlines , Canadian Airlines, Cathay Pacific
and Qantas. He also presided during British Airways’ sometimes-
nasty fight against a trans-Atlantic competitor,  Richard
Branson ’s Virgin Atlantic.  Colin Marsh Marshall was born on Nov. 6, 1933, in Edgware,
Middlesex, England, according to the Times. He enrolled at
University College School in London and left at 17 for a job as
a cadet purser on the Orient Line, working six-week passenger
voyages to  Australia .  During his seven years at sea, Marshall met and married his
wife, Janet, a trainee purser with the company, the Times said.  In 1958, he joined Hertz, the car rental company. After
training in Chicago and Toronto, Marshall became general manager
of Hertz in Mexico City in 1959, according to the  Daily
Telegraph  of London. After a brief stint in  New York  as
assistant to the president, he moved back across the Atlantic to
run Hertz’s business in the U.K., Netherlands and Belgium.  Joining Rival  In that role he was noticed and recruited by Hertz’s chief
competitor Avis in 1964 to lead its expansion in Europe. By
focusing on business travelers, he turned Avis into the top car
rental company in the region, according to the Times. In 1971 he
returned to New York to become chief operating officer, and from
1976 to 1979, CEO.  He returned to Britain in 1981 to become deputy chief
executive of Sears. Two years later he was named CEO of British
Airways.  From 1996 to 1998 Marshall was president of the
 Confederation of British Industry . He also served on the board
of  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , as chairman of  Invensys Plc (ISYS)  and  Inchcape
Plc (INCH)  and as deputy chairman of BT.  He was made a peer in the House of Lords in 1998 and had
the title Lord Marshall of Knightsbridge, according to the U.K.
Parliament’s website.  He is survived by his wife, Janet, and a daughter,
according to the Times.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net ;
Charles W. Stevens in New York 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens in New York 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  