-- Diamond Antithesis Seen as Key Step to Repairing Barclays
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e ,   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2012-07-09T02:08:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/diamond-antithesis-seen-as-first-step-to-rehabilitating-barclays.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  needs to find a
successor for  Robert Diamond  who is the opposite of the American
investment banker as a first step to restoring political trust.  Diamond, 60, quit last week after the London-based bank was
fined a record 290 million pounds ($449 million) for trying to
rig the  London  interbank offered rate, the benchmark  interest
rate  for more than $360 trillion of securities.  “The new CEO will have a lot less brash, investment-
banking style than they had in  Bob Diamond ,” said Alan Beaney,
who helps manage 200 million pounds including Barclays shares at
RC Brown Investment Management Plc in Bristol,  England .
“They’ll go back to somebody from the retail bank to run it.”  The British lender faces a criminal probe and political
pressure to curb or separate the  investment banking  unit that
Diamond built up during his 16-year career at Barclays from the
consumer bank. The unit generated 61 percent of the bank’s
first-quarter pretax profit. At a Parliamentary hearing last
week, lawmakers asked if the culture at the investment bank was
“rotten” and if he lived in a “parallel universe.”  “It looks awful,” said  Jim Preen , who advises companies
on media relations and  crisis management . “If you are in a
crisis, the first thing you try to do is keep in touch with the
public mood. Banks are clearly not in touch with public mood.”  The stock has dropped 31 percent, erasing 3.8 billion
pounds of market value, since regulators announced the fine on
June 27. The shares fell 2 percent to 164.75 pence in London
trading on July 6 as Britain’s Serious Fraud Office said it
would open a criminal probe into attempted rate manipulation.  Internal Controls  Giles Croot, a Barclays spokesman, declined to comment.  The bank will also have to bolster its internal controls.
Barclays announced on July 2 a “root and branch” review of its
business practices and said it would develop a code of conduct.  The lender will have to convince politicians that the
planned code of conduct is enforced, said Alan Stevens, managing
director of  Vector Consultants , which advises companies in
regulated industries such as pharmaceuticals and aviation.  “They haven’t drilled down every level from the board room
to the trading floor what matters in terms of actions,” said
Stevens, whose clients include Vodafone Group Plc, Prudential
Plc and British Airways. The bank will need to think how it can
reward good values as well as profits, he said. “They need to
ask: when was the last time a manager was promoted because he
stopped someone doing something?”  Cutting Bonuses  Antony Jenkins , Barclays’s head of consumer banking, and
 David Roberts , deputy chairman of  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ,
Britain’s biggest mortgage lender, have been named by analysts
as potential successors for Diamond. Both Jenkins and Roberts
declined to comment.  Michael Smith , CEO of Melbourne-based Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd., and Naguib Kheraj, a former Barclays
finance director, may also be among the candidates, the Wall
Street Journal reported July 6, citing people close to the bank.  Diamond, who joined Barclays in 1996, oversaw the 2008
purchase of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s North American unit
and the expansion beyond fixed-income into equities and mergers
advisory. He was appointed CEO in January 2011.  Whoever replaces him will probably have to accept a smaller
pay package and forgo a bonus. The Massachusetts-born banker’s
12 million-pound remuneration, including a 5.75 million-pound
payment toward his personal tax bill last year, made him
Britain’s top-paid bank CEO.  Political Outcry  Then-Business Secretary  Peter Mandelson  described Diamond
as the “unacceptable face of banking” in 2010 over his
compensation. In January 2011, the banker told Parliamentarians
that the time for “remorse and apology” for banks needed to be
over, prompting political outcry.  Diamond received at least 120 million pounds in salary,
bonuses and share awards since joining Barclays’s main board in
2005, according to Manifest Information Services Ltd., a proxy
voting firm that advises clients managing 3 trillion pounds of
assets. That excludes the 26.8 million pounds he made on selling
shares in  Barclays Global Investors  in 2009.  The lender is still to determine his severance package. He
may be entitled to a payoff of 2 million pounds to 21 million
pounds, according to Manifest.  Restoring public and political trust “isn’t an overnight
process” said  James Post , a professor at Boston University
School of Management. “The new CEO needs to be separated from
the bonus culture that is a cancer on the industry,” he said.
“A fixed salary with some long-term performance shares makes
good sense for now.”  Presents Dilemma  The choice of an investment or consumer banker presents
Barclays with a dilemma, Beaney said. A consumer banker may not
have the knowledge to run and manage the culture of the
securities unit, while the choice of an investment banker would
suggest the bank is unwilling to change its ways, he said.  Barclays could opt for a co-CEO structure as the bank
prepares to implement government-imposed rules that will force
it to erect firebreaks around its consumer and securities units,
Beaney said.  The government is putting into law the Independent
Commission on Banking’s recommendation to partially separate
consumer and investment banking. The panel, led by Oxford
academic  John Vickers , recommended that banks create separate
boards for their consumer and securities units with at least
two-thirds of their members sitting on only one. Banks will also
be forced to have separate risk committees.  “That would fit in with the idea of ring-fencing,” Beaney
said. Shrinking the investment bank would be a mistake, as it’s
the only “credible” British investment bank, especially after
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  reduced its securities unit
after its bailout, he said.  Cutting Costs  Barclays’s securities unit generated 44 percent of the
bank’s revenue in the first quarter. The unit costs as a
proportion of net operating income climbed to 71 percent in 2011
from 65 percent in the year-earlier period. Each employee in the
division took home an average of 64,000 pounds in bonus for
2011, compared with the companywide average of 15,237 pounds.
The operation accounts for about 17 percent of the bank’s staff.  The incoming CEO will need to reduce costs such as pay and
bonuses at the investment banking unit, said Colin McLean, CEO
of Edinburgh-based SVM Asset Management. That may require the
bank to hire a CEO with investment banking experience who isn’t
working at a securities firm. Royal Bank of Scotland CEO  Stephen Hester  joined the lender from real estate developer British Land
Co. He had previously worked for 19 years at  Credit Suisse First
Boston .  “When we had Hester he didn’t come from a traditional
background,” McLean said. “They’ll have to understand
investment banking.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  