-- Potter Jr. Gets First PGA Tour Win in Playoff at The Greenbrier
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-07-09T04:04:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/ted-potter-jr-wins-pga-tour-s-greenbrier-classic-in-playoff.html
Ted Potter Jr. won his first U.S. PGA
Tour title at The Greenbrier Classic, where U.S. Open champion
 Webb Simpson  blew a final-round lead and  Tiger Woods  and  Phil Mickelson  both missed weekend play as professionals in a
tournament for the first time.  Potter made a four-foot birdie putt on the third extra hole
yesterday at the Old White TPC Course in White Sulphur Springs,
 West Virginia , to beat Troy Kelly in a playoff between the  218th
and 464th ranked golfers  in the world.  Potter, 28, received $1.1 million for the victory, which
came after he missed the cut for weekend play in nine of his 15
previous PGA Tour events this year, including five straight.  “When you’re missing cuts every week, you get down on
yourself,” Potter said at a news conference. “It’s hard to
pick yourself back up, but the plus side for me is I was still
young. I just knew I had plenty of time.”  Potter forced the playoff by playing the final four holes
in 4-under par, including an eagle on the par-5 17th, to match
Kelly at 16 under. Kelly, 33, was more than 200 spots lower than
Potter in the Official World Golf Ranking, having missed 14 of
17 cuts this season with a previous best finish of 37th.  Potter sealed his breakthrough victory at Old White’s 162-
yard par-3 18th hole, where he hit his tee shot about four feet
from the flag to set up the winning birdie.  Simpson had entered the final round with a two-shot lead,
yet slipped to a tie for seventh place after shooting a 3-over
73 that featured bogeys on four of the last seven holes. Charlie Wi and Charlie Beljan tied for third at 14-under par.  The tournament’s two biggest stars didn’t even play the
final two rounds, as Woods and Mickelson missed the cut in the
same tournament for the first time as pros.  The  PGA Tour  next moves to Silvis,  Illinois , for the $4.6
million John Deere Classic, the final tournament before the
British Open. The third of the season’s four major championships
is scheduled for July 19-22 at Royal Lytham & St. Annes in
northwest  England .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  