-- Egypt’s President Mohamed Mursi Reinstates Parliament
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a ,   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-07-09T08:29:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/egypt-s-president-mursi-reinstates-parliament-orders-vote-1-.html
Egypt ’s newly elected President
Mohamed Mursi issued a decree to reinstate parliament, seeking
to assert his power after the military dissolved the
legislature.  The decree also calls for parliamentary elections to be
held within 60 days of the approval of a new constitution in a
public referendum, the official Middle East  News Agency  reported
yesterday. The charter has yet to be drafted. The generals, who
had ruled the country until Mursi’s election last month,
convened an emergency meeting last night after the decree, the
agency said.  Mursi’s move comes after the military council last month
decided to retain legislative powers after the high court ruled
that the law governing voting for the Islamist-controlled
parliament was unconstitutional. The power struggle between the
president, an Islamist politician, and the generals has deepened
divisions in a country struggling to recover from the chaos that
followed last year’s uprising that toppled  Hosni Mubarak .  “The decision will raise tension in the political arena,
especially between the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces and
the Muslim Brotherhood,” Nabil Abdel-Fattah, a political
analyst at the Ahram Center for Political and Strategic Studies,
said by phone. “By reinstating parliament, the president is
challenging the rule of law and the judiciary.”  Emergency Meeting  The constitutional court will hold an emergency meeting
today,  Al Jazeera  reported. Meanwhile, Parliament Speaker Saad
El-Katatni, a leader of the Brotherhood’s political arm, the
Freedom and Justice Party, said the assembly would reconvene
“within hours,” according to the website Ahramonline. The
Freedom and Justice Party, the group headed by Mursi until his
election last month, said its supporters would rally in  Tahrir
Square , where the Egyptian uprising began, to support the
parliament, the state-run Ahram Gate reported.  The Freedom and Justice Party won almost half of the seats
in the legislature in elections this year. Together with the
Salafi Nour Party, Islamists controlled more than two-thirds of
the assembly.  Mursi’s decision fulfills one of his election campaign
promises.  “What we’re seeing is yet another round inside the country
about how to restructure power in a major way,” said Brian Katulis, a senior fellow at the Center for American Progress in
 Washington . “I don’t know what Mursi’s legal authority is to
reinstate the parliament, but the military has had a great deal
of autonomy and that will likely decline over time.”  Military Reaction  The escalation in the power struggle may prompt investors
to sell Egyptian shares today, trimming an 18 percent rally in
the benchmark  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  since Mursi was declared winner on
June 24.  “Although reinstating parliament has been one of Mursi’s
campaign promises, it will definitely weigh on sentiment as it
could mark the spark of the anticipated clash with” the
military, said Wafik Dawood, director of the institutional sales
desk at Cairo-based Mega Investments Securities.  Economists at HSBC Holdings Plc, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch and Standard Chartered Plc had predicted that the power
struggle may delay a $3.2 billion loan agreement with the
 International Monetary Fund  needed to unlock external financing
to lower record government borrowing costs and help foreign
reserves recover from the worst decline in seven years.  Reserves Unchanged  Net international reserves were little changed  in June at
$15.5 billion after an increase in gold holdings made up for a
drop in foreign currencies, according to central bank data
released yesterday.  The military’s reaction to the decree may depend on how
much it knew beforehand,  Shadi Hamid , director of research at
the Brookings Doha Center, said by phone.  “It could have potentially been something that was
negotiated ahead of time, at least in its broad outlines,”
Hamid said, adding that if the move wasn’t “pre-arranged” it
could lead to confrontation between the president and the
Supreme Council of the Armed Forces. “If it was a power-play on
the part of Mursi then it is going to lead to unprecedented
tensions because it’s a direct challenge to the legitimacy of
both SCAF and the judiciary.”  At the same time, said Hamid, “this could actually be
something of a compromise because SCAF gets a little bit of what
it wants, the Brotherhood gets some of what it wants. There
still would be new elections held.”  Mursi will meet with U.S. President  Barack Obama  in  New
York  during the September meeting of the  United Nations General
Assembly , according to an American administration official who
spoke on condition of anonymity. The Egyptian leader met
yesterday in Cairo with Deputy Secretary of State  William Burns ,
who conveyed the invitation, the official said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Khartoum at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  