-- Electoral Map Doesn’t Always Lead to White House
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2012-07-08T15:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/electoral-map-doesn-t-always-lead-straight-to-white-house.html
“If you get the votes,” Stu Spencer
advised a persistent young reporter during the 1980 U.S.
presidential campaign, “the map will follow.”  Spencer, the top political strategist for  Ronald Reagan  and
one of the best ever to ply the trade, was suggesting that the
fixation on the Electoral College and key battleground states is
excessive. The college, or the map, invariably follows the
popular vote. The only exception in more than 100 years was
2000, when George W. Bush lost the popular vote, and after a
controversial Supreme Court ruling, won the presidency.  The more important focus, Spencer suggested, are swing
voter groups. In 2012, if married women with children in  Florida 
go for the Republican candidate,  Mitt Romney , they probably will
go for him in Ohio, too. If Obama captures suburban independents
in  Pennsylvania , it’s not likely to be much different in
Colorado.  The same is true of each party’s base. If Hispanics are
voting heavily in  Nevada , the same pattern ought to hold in
 Virginia . A big time turnout of evangelicals in  North Carolina 
suggests the same in  Iowa .  So why all the constant attention to the electoral map and
the magic figure of 270, the number of electoral votes required
to be elected president?  Easy Calculus  One reason is that it’s more fun for journalists, and it’s
easier to focus on states and the number of electoral votes.
Also this calculus enhances the reputation of political
strategists. The Republican  Karl Rove , who ran George W. Bush’s
campaigns, and  David Plouffe , President  Barack Obama ’s political
guru, are supposed to be masters of the map.  More important, it matters in very close contests, usually
those decided by one percentage point or less, as was the case
12 years ago. In a number of the recent tight races -- 1960,
1968, 1976 and, to a lesser extent, 2004 -- the popular vote and
the map were in sync.  Matthew Dowd , the top poll taker and a strategist for
 George W. Bush , illustrated the unusual scenario where it might
matter this time. Obama won the national popular vote four years
ago by a little more than seven points. Dowd took four points
off the Democrats’ 2008 vote in each state, and added it to the
other column, which would have given Republicans a tiny edge in
the popular vote.  Under that scenario, however, Obama this time still would
squeak by and win the Electoral College vote 272 to 266. He
would lose Florida, Ohio,  Indiana , North Carolina, Virginia and
a congressional district in  Nebraska , not quite enough to switch
the result.  If, instead, the difference were five points for each
candidate, the Republicans additionally would pick up  Colorado ,
New Hampshire and Iowa, which bring them 15 more votes than
necessary to win.  The two probable conclusions: If the race is decided by two
percentage points or more the electoral map won’t matter; if
it’s less than that, the president has a slight advantage with
the map.  In looking at current surveys, both sides carefully examine
the profile of a state’s electorate and compare it with the
landscape of 2008. It’s generally accepted that voter enthusiasm
for Obama, particularly among young voters whom he carried
decisively last time, is diminished; it’s also true the
electorate in most places is more non-white, a disadvantage for
Romney.  The party preference in any poll is the best guide; with
rare exceptions, 90 percent or more of self-identified partisans
vote for their own side.  Party Preference  Three recent  Quinnipiac University polls  underscore this
point. In Florida, Pennsylvania and Ohio the partisan breakdown
is almost the same as it was four years ago. Obama has an
advantage in all three, though for Ohio it is wider than in
other surveys of that state.  More important than the horse race are the internal
dynamics. A lot is driven by an anti-Romney sentiment. In Ohio,
one third of the voters were independents, who will swing the
election. They have a 44 percent to 31 percent unfavorable view
of the Republican nominee. Reversing that is his challenge over
the next four months.  Spencer, who recalls Reagan and  Bill Clinton  trailing at a
comparable stage in their races, thinks it’s doable.  In a phone conversation, Spencer, at 85, seems as sharp as
when he was the hottest political consultant in America, helping
Reagan win the California governorship in 1966 and the
presidency 14 years later.  His advice for Romney, who he says doesn’t relate well to
average voters: “Stay focused on the economic issues and don’t
try to change who you are.”  For Obama: “Spend a lot of time around Bill Clinton and
listen. He is a master at understanding his base and
understanding the rest of us.”  For both, the counsel he gave his actor-turned politician
client almost five decades ago seems relevant: “Politics is
just like show business. You have a hell of an opening, coast
for a while and then have a hell of a close.”  ( Albert R. Hunt  is Washington editor at Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 