-- Lend Lease Gets Funding for First Sydney Harbor Towers
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-07-08T23:31:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/lend-lease-gets-2-billion-funding-for-barangaroo-towers.html
Lend Lease  Group,  Australia ’s biggest
property developer, secured A$2 billion ($2 billion) in
commitments to develop the first two towers at its Barangaroo
South site, including investments from  retirement plans  and its
own property fund.  Canada Pension Plan Investment Board, which invests for the
country’s state retirement plans, will invest A$1 billion.
Another A$500 million will come from Lend Lease’s Australian
Prime Property Fund Commercial, Telstra Super, a retirement fund
for Australia’s largest phone company, and First State Super, an
independent pension fund. Lend Lease will invest as much as
A$500 million, it said.  “This is terrific news,” New South Wales state premier
Barry O’Farrell said by e-mail. Settling the funding “during
challenging economic times with constrained real estate
investment and financing is no mean feat,” he said, adding that
the project would create 10,150 jobs.  Lend Lease, which began work on the A$6 billion
redevelopment project late last year, plans to create a new
financial hub for Sydney on a former dockyard on the city’s
harbor adjacent to its main business district. The 22-hectare
site will contain 300,000 square meters (3.2 million square
feet) of commercial floor space, according to its  website . The
developer signed tenancy agreements on June 22 with  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC)  and  KPMG  LLP to lease 71 percent of space in the
two towers, and said Lend Lease itself will also move into the
second tower.  Westpac and KPMG will move into the new buildings between
mid-2015 and early 2016, they said.  Hotel Talks  Lend Lease shares have climbed 4.3 percent so far this
year, closing at A$7.47 on July 6, compared with a 2.5 percent
gain in the benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 index .  “This investment supports our real estate strategy to
acquire premium, long-term assets in key global markets,”
 Graeme Eadie , senior vice-president for real estate investments
at the Canadian pension fund, said in an e-mailed statement.  The site plans include a park with 675 trees on the shores
of Sydney harbor, offices, a ferry terminal and a hotel as well
as outdoor areas for public events.  Crown Ltd. (CWN) , the casino company controlled by billionaire
 James Packer , has expressed interest in including gaming
facilities at the hotel, Steve McCann, Lend Lease’s chief
executive officer, told Australian Broadcasting Corp. television
yesterday .  “If you look at Crown’s facilities elsewhere in Australia
and overseas they’re very high quality,” McCann said. “I’ve no
doubt they’d be a competitive proposition.”  Takeover Bid  While Packer has said he’d like to make the site a venue
for high-rolling gambling, he is constrained by a state casino
monopoly held by Echo Entertainment Ltd. until 2019.  Crown holds about 10 percent of Echo and has said it would
like permission from regulators to raise that stake to 25
percent, a level that would trigger a takeover bid of the A$3.4
billion company under Australian corporate laws.  Barangaroo’s planned office space will add about 6 percent
to the local market, which totaled 4.9 million square meters
last Sept. 30 according to  consultants  Preston Rowe Paterson.  Sydney’s central business district saw its vacancy rate
increase to 9.6 percent in January from 9.3 percent in July 2011
as more than 80,000 square meters of new space was added to the
market amid slower take-up, property broker Colliers
International said in a report on the industry’s performance in
the first half.  Economy ‘Challenging’  The funding discussions had been in progress for some time
and the agreement didn’t necessarily show more confidence in the
economy, McCann said yesterday.  “I’m not sure that it of itself indicates the market’s
loosening up,” he said, adding that Australia’s economy remains
“challenging,” particularly in the construction and the
residential areas.  Conditions in  Europe  are “very difficult” outside of
 London ’s residential market, McCann said. While “activity
levels are quite strong” in the biggest U.S. cities such as  New
York  and  Chicago , other cities in the country were “a fair way
away,” he said.  A further cut in Australia’s interest rates “would help
everybody,” he said. “We’re still well down on previous years,
so I think the market still needs a bit of help.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  