-- Ernest Borgnine, Star on TV’s ‘McHale’s Navy,’ Dies at 95
-- B y   V i v e k   S h a n k a r
-- 2012-07-09T16:40:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/ernest-borgnine-star-of-marty-mchale-s-navy-dies-1-.html
Ernest Borgnine, the Oscar-winning
actor whose parts ranged from ominous heavies and humble
everymen to the buffoonish skipper of a PT boat in the
television series “ McHale’s Navy ,” has died. He was 95.  Borgnine spokesman Harry Flynn told the  Associated Press 
the actor died yesterday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in  Los
Angeles . Flynn said  kidney failure  was the cause of death.  The burly, gap-toothed actor outlasted most leading men of
his generation. He appeared in more than 110 films in his five-
decade career, including “ From Here to Eternity ,” “The Dirty
Dozen,” “Marty,” and “The Poseidon Adventure,” and by his
count died onscreen almost 30 times.  “I’ve been shot, stabbed, kicked, punched through barroom
doors by Spencer Tracy and Gary Cooper, pushed in front of
moving subway trains, devoured by rats and a giant mutated fish,
blown up in spaceships, melted down into a Technicolor puddle,
jumped into a snake pit, and I perished from thirst in the
 Sahara Desert ,” he wrote in his 2008 memoir.  His role as a socially inept New York City butcher who
courts a spinster schoolteacher in “ Marty ” (1955) earned him
the Academy Award for best actor. The movie also won Oscars for
best picture, best screenplay (for Paddy Chayefsky) and best
directing (for Delbert Mann). New York Times reviewer Bosley
Crowther praised Borgnine’s performance as “a beautiful blend
of the crude and the strangely gentle and sensitive in a
monosyllabic man.”  Navy Role  “McHale’s Navy” made Borgnine a household name. He played
Lieutenant Commander Quinton McHale, leader of a fun-loving,
troublemaking PT boat crew during World War II.  “It’s much better to be a character actor and be working
forever than it is to be a lead man and say, ‘My, the girls all
love me,’” Borgnine said in a 2006  interview  as part of the
British Film Institute’s tribute to the U.S. actor.  Ermes Effron Borgnino was born on Jan. 24, 1917, in  Hamden ,
 Connecticut , to immigrants from  Italy . His father, born Camillo
Borgnino, worked at a brickyard and for a railroad.  His parents divorced when he was 2, so Borgnine lived with
his mother, spending a few years in Italy before returning to
Connecticut. After finishing high school, he spent six years in
the Navy before serving in World War II, attaining the rank of
chief petty officer.  Opposite Sinatra  At his mother’s suggestion, Borgnine turned to acting and
went to drama school in Hartford, Connecticut. He graduated and
attended  Barter Theatre  in Abingdon,  Virginia , where actors
performed in exchange for food from the local farmers in the
audience. There he caught the eye of  New York  critics who saw
him play a minor role in the Tennessee Williams play “The Glass
Menagerie.” The reviews earned Borgnine parts on  Broadway .  He moved to Los Angeles, where he got his break with a
performance as the brutish Sergeant Fatso Judson in the 1953
film, “From Here to Eternity,” which won  Frank Sinatra  an
Oscar for best supporting actor. In one scene, Sinatra’s
character slams a stool over the head of Borgnine’s character
during a barroom brawl.  Parts in the western “Johnny Guitar” (1954) and the
mystery drama “Bad Day at Black Rock” (1955) followed, giving
him a chance to act alongside Hollywood stars such as Tracy and
Lee Marvin.  Borgnine beat out Sinatra, Tracy,  James Dean  and James Cagney for his best-actor Oscar in “Marty.” Being cast against
type opened up new opportunities for Borgnine, though he more
often played supporting roles than leading man.  TV Recognition  “A fine-looking guy can be a louse, and a hard-looking man
can be a real person,” Borgnine told the Times in 1955.
“Anybody can play a rowdy role, but it takes something on the
ball to play a good guy.”  Even after his Oscar, Borgnine didn’t gain widespread
recognition until he turned to television work in the 1960s.  His initial reluctance to accept the lead role in
“McHale’s Navy” faded after a delivery boy said he had no idea
who Borgnine was. The actor quickly realized that television
reached more people.  The black-and-white sitcom, which ran from 1962 to 1966,
was “a smash beyond all our expectations,” Borgnine said.  Actor Tim Conway, as Ensign Charles Parker, provided the
main comedic support for Borgnine while the Navy crew bumbled
its way to military success, often winning praise from the top
brass. Joe Flynn added to the farce as Captain Binghamton, who
was continually frustrated in his efforts to discipline McHale’s
team of schemers and con men.  Five Marriages  “ The Dirty Dozen ” (1967) was a major box-office success,
as Borgnine combined with Marvin, Charles Bronson and American
football star  Jim Brown  to portray a commando mission on a
French chateau as D-Day approached.  He appeared in the original feature film “The Poseidon
Adventure” (1972) as a surviving passenger on a capsized cruise
ship, and in the TV series “ Airwolf ” (1984-1986) as a veteran
helicopter pilot.  Borgnine married five times, including once to Broadway
actress Ethel Merman for only 32 days, and had three children.  In 2010, Borgnine received the Screen Actors Guild Life
Achievement Award. His most recent acting appearance was in a
2011 TV movie, “Love’s Christmas Journey,” according to
Internet Movie Database, an entertainment  website . In a film due
out this year, “The Man Who Shook the Hand of Vicente
Fernandez,” Borgnine stars as an old man who is bitter about
never becoming famous and who questions the meaning of his life.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivek Shankar in  San Francisco  at 
 vshankar3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  