-- EU Carbon Price Increases Would Intensify Crisis, Poland Says
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-07-08T10:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/eu-carbon-price-increases-would-intensify-crisis-poland-says.html
The European Union should avoid
measures to prop up carbon market prices because they would lead
to higher energy costs and could aggravate the economic crisis
in the region,  Poland ’s environment minister said.  The EU emissions trading system, or the ETS, is delivering
on its target to reduce greenhouse gas emissions at the lowest
possible cost and there’s no need to “manipulate” the market
after a slump in industrial output drove carbon prices to a
record low, Marcin Korolec said.  “The ETS is not here to set a particular carbon price,”
he said in an interview yesterday in Nicosia, Cyprus, during a
meeting of environment and climate ministers from the 27-nation
bloc. “What Europe needs at this moment is low energy prices
and we should be happy that the system works and is flexible
enough to adjust to the economic situation.”  The price of EU carbon permits for delivery in December
dropped to 5.99 euros ($7.36) in April, the lowest level since
the contract started trading in 2005. The 17-nation euro economy
will shrink 0.3 percent this year, according to the European
Commission. Unemployment rose to a record 11.1 percent in May,
economic confidence slumped to the lowest in more than 2 1/2
years in June, and services and manufacturing output contracted
for a fifth month in the Euro area.  The emission caps that the ETS imposes on more than 12,000
facilities owned by manufacturers and utilities were set before
the economic slowdown. The system doesn’t allow any minimum or
maximum prices.  Backloading  The slump in emissions costs triggered calls from investors
including  Acciona SA (ANA)  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  for the EU to
curb the oversupply of allowances and start talks about long-
term carbon targets for the region. EU Climate Commissioner
 Connie Hedegaard  is aiming to present this month a proposal to
postpone auctions of some allowances in the third phase of the
ETS that starts in 2013, a practice known as backloading.  “When the rules of the next phase of the ETS were
negotiated in 2008 it was agreed that it will be a market
mechanism,” Korolec said. “Let’s stick to this rule.
Backloading would be aimed at eventually tightening the
emissions target and that’s not a move Poland could back.”  The proposal is to be published alongside a report on the
functioning of the carbon market, which will show one option to
improve the system in the longer term is to permanently set
aside a number of permits in the third phase to tackle
oversupply caused by economic slowdown, according to people
familiar with the matter.  Political Mandate  “A permanent set-aside of allowances would mean tightening
the target and the commission doesn’t have a political mandate
to propose such a move,” Korolec said. “It doesn’t have a
social mandate either because it means weakening the European
position and a risk of companies relocating their production at
a time of a crisis.”  Another option to strengthen the ETS that the EU’s
regulatory arm will sketch out in the report is increasing the
1.74 percent linear factor by which European emission caps will
fall annually in the next trading period, people with knowledge
of the matter said last month.  Accelerating the annual decrease in pollution limits would
mean stricter pollution goals in 2020 and beyond. The EU is
currently on track to meet its target of cutting  greenhouse
gases  by 20 percent in 2020 compared with 1990 levels and the
commission said in a policy paper last year that the bloc could
cut emissions by 25 percent domestically if it boosts energy
savings. The cheapest way for the EU to attain its 2050 de-
carbonization target would be to lower emissions by 40 percent
in 2030 and 60 percent in 2040, according to the commission.  Stricter Policies  “It’s not a good moment to decide about post-2020 goals
when we don’t have the clarity about emission-reduction
commitments by countries such as  China  or the U.S.,” Korolec
said. “Some companies seek stricter policies, but at the same
time there are many that urge policy makers not to make too-
ambitious moves that would worsen  Europe ’s competitiveness.”  EU carbon allowances for December closed at 8.07 euros a
metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London  on July
6, down 22 percent from a year ago. The current cost of
emissions is much lower than expected when the ETS was being
created and fails to encourage investment in clean technologies,
the commission, environmental lobbies and businesses including
Dutch energy company Eneco Holding NV have said.  Flexibility  The ETS is not the right tool to stimulate a shift toward
renewable energy sources and EU members should be granted
flexibility in measures to encourage such transformation,
according to Korolec. He said he is confident Poland will meet
its green energy targets. The central European nation relies on
coal for more than 90 percent of its energy consumption.  “There’s no one-size-fits-all solution and that’s why all
countries in the EU have their own renewable energy goals,” he
said. “Nations should be allowed to implement their own
instruments in that area. The ETS was created as a tool to cap
emissions, not to incentivize modern technology.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Nicosia at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  