-- Euro Rises From Two-Year Low as Finance Ministers Meet
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-07-09T21:22:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/euro-touches-2-year-low-before-finance-ministers-meet.html
The euro advanced from a two-year low
versus the dollar as finance ministers from the 17-nation
currency bloc met to discuss measures to ease its debt crisis.  The shared currency rose from the weakest in more than a
month against the yen as European Central Bank President  Mario
Draghi  signaled policy makers may be open to another interest-
rate cut if the economic outlook warrants it. The dollar and yen
gained earlier as machinery orders in  Japan  plunged and
inflation in  China  declined, adding to concern economic growth
is faltering and fueling demand for refuge.  “What we’ve seen today is a bit of short covering,”  Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD
Securities unit, said in a telephone interview. “Euro-dollar is
going to continue to slip lower with monetary policy in the  euro
zone  so loose.” Short covering is when investors end bets an
asset will decline.  The euro rose for the first time in four days, gaining 0.2
percent to $1.2313 at 5 p.m.  New York  time, after falling
earlier to $1.2251, the weakest level since July 2010. The 17-
nation currency advanced 0.1 percent to 97.95 yen after earlier
touching 97.43 yen, the lowest since June 5. Japan’s currency
strengthened 0.1 percent to 79.56 per dollar.  Brazil ’s real was the worst performer against the greenback
after  South Korea ’s won. The real slid 0.2 percent to 2.0324 per
dollar. Norway’s krone rose versus the euro and dollar,
appreciating 0.4 percent to 7.4866 to the shared currency and
gaining 0.6 percent to 6.0804 per dollar.  Aussie Weakens  Australia ’s dollar fell after the official Xinhua News
Agency reported yesterday Chinese Premier Wen said the
government will intensify fine-tuning of policies in response to
downside risks to economic growth. The comments came after the
South Pacific nation’s biggest trading partner announced the
second interest-rate cut in a month.  The Aussie slid as much as 0.6 percent to $1.0155 before
trading at $1.0208, down less than 0.1 percent. It lost 0.2
percent to 81.21 yen and fell 0.3 percent to A$1.2062 per euro.  Consumer prices  in China rose 2.2 percent in June from a
year earlier, according to a report released today. It was the
slowest pace in 29 months and compared with the median forecast
in a Bloomberg poll for a 2.3 percent inflation rate.  Machinery orders  in Japan, an indicator of  capital
spending , slumped 14.8 percent in May from April, the nation’s
Cabinet Office said in a report.  Three Months  Stocks fell, with the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  declining
0.2 percent and the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  dropping 0.4 percent.  The 17-nation currency erased losses as the European
Commission said future recapitalizations of banks by the
European Stability Mechanism will have “no need for a sovereign
guarantee.” Details of how the system will work remain to be
negotiated, commission spokesman Simon O’Connor told reporters
in Brussels today.  European finance ministers met to discuss crisis measures
adopted by heads of government at a summit last month.  European Union leaders pledged June 29 to enable the
region’s permanent bailout fund to make capital injections
directly to distressed lenders rather than funneling aid through
governments, once a single bank-supervision system is created.  “In the near-term, we think the euro could come back a
little bit as we get some certainty about this bank program in
 Europe , and also increasing prospects of QE3 here in the U.S.,”
said Robert Sinche, global head of currency strategy at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities. He was referring to
speculation the  Federal Reserve  may begin a third round of
large-scale debt purchases.  Weaker Euro  The shared currency will probably weaken to about $1.15 by
the middle of next year, Sinche, who’s based in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , said today in an interview on Bloomberg Television.  Draghi said the ECB is “searching for actions that could
attenuate the current crisis,” as long as they don’t breach the
central bank’s inflation-fighting mandate. The bank cut its main
 refinancing rate  to a record low 0.75 percent last week.  While the ECB never pre-commits, it will “do everything to
maintain  price stability  -- from both sides -- in the euro
area,” Draghi told lawmakers in Brussels today when asked if
the central bank could cut rates again.  The shared currency has fallen 3.6 percent in the past
three months, the worst performance among the 10 developed-
nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes. The yen was the biggest winner, rising 4.7 percent,
followed by a 3.1 percent increase in the dollar.  Japan Surplus  The yen tends to appreciate in periods of financial and
economic turmoil because Japan’s current-account surplus makes
it less reliant on foreign capital. Government data showed the
 surplus  was 215.1 billion yen ($2.7 billion) in May, compared
with the median estimate for an excess of 493.1 billion yen in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Bank of Japan (8301)  policy makers are set to meet on July 11-12.
Governor Masaaki Shirakawa has said it is fully committed to
pursuing “powerful monetary easing” until a 1 percent
inflation target set in February is in sight. The central bank
has expanded its asset-purchase fund, its main policy tool, by
20 trillion yen this year in a bid to stimulate growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  