-- Fed Does What Can’t Be Done Directly in Twist of Political Fate
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-07-08T23:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/fed-does-what-can-t-be-done-directly-in-twist-of-political-fate.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has found in Operation Twist a way to expand his record
monetary stimulus without provoking his critics.  Through Twist, the Fed sells short-term holdings and buys
longer-term debt to spur the economy by cutting borrowing costs
without increasing its balance sheet. The June 20 decision to
extend the program hasn’t generated much controversy so far,
unlike the Fed’s second round of asset purchases, announced in
2010, which sparked the worst political backlash in three
decades as Republicans warned it risked accelerating inflation.  Avoiding political “heat” was one reason policy makers
opted at last month’s meeting to prolong Twist through the end
of the year by $267 billion before starting a third round of so-
called quantitative easing, said  Stephen Stanley , chief
economist at Pierpont Securities LLC. The central bank is under
scrutiny not only for its monetary policies but also for its
governance after a trading loss of more than $2 billion at
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  revived concern it is too close to the
banks it oversees.  “The institutional standing of the Fed is shakier today
than it’s been at any point certainly in my career, and doing
QE3 in election season would be taking an unnecessary risk
unless the case is blatantly obvious,” Stanley, a former
researcher at the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond who has
followed the Fed for 18 years, said in an interview from his
 Stamford , Connecticut, office.  ‘Sustained Improvement’  Bernanke hasn’t ruled out QE3 and said June 20 that more
easing probably will be needed unless there’s “sustained
improvement in the labor market.” The economy added 80,000 jobs
in June, missing the 100,000 median estimate of economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. The  unemployment rate , at  8.2 percent ,
remained above 8 percent for a 41st consecutive month.  Ward McCarthy , chief financial economist at Jefferies & Co.
in New York, predicts the Fed will announce QE3 at its December
meeting, unless the sovereign-debt crisis in Europe or political
wrangling over the  budget deficit  in the U.S. curtails growth
and prompts action sooner.  “They’re not even forecasting sustained improvement in the
labor market, so my interpretation of that is that they expect
to do more,” McCarthy said. “There’s no reason to do it now
that they’ve already put something else in place.”  Fed officials see unemployment of 8 percent to 8.2 percent
at year-end, compared with an April projection of 7.8 percent to
8 percent, according to their so-called central-tendency
 estimate . For 2013, they predict 7.5 percent to 8 percent, up
from their previous forecast of 7.3 percent to 7.7 percent.  ‘Deep Concerns’  After the Fed said in November 2010 that it would buy $600
billion of bonds, House Speaker  John Boehner  of Ohio and three
other Republicans sent Bernanke a letter expressing “deep
concerns.” Sarah Palin, the 2008 vice-presidential candidate,
accused the Fed of a “dangerous experiment in printing $600
billion out of thin air.”  Mitt Romney , the presumptive Republican presidential
nominee, has said he won’t keep Bernanke -- whose second four-
year term expires on Jan. 31, 2014 -- as Fed chairman. QE2 “did
not have the desired effect” and a potential QE3 wouldn’t fare
better, he said in an interview with CBS’s “Face the Nation”
taped June 16. QE2 risks devaluing the dollar and accelerating
prices, he added.  Lawmakers also have expressed concern about the Fed’s
closeness to  Wall Street  ever since the taxpayer-funded bailouts
of 2008 -- criticism that was rekindled by the May 10
announcement of JPMorgan’s trading loss.  Jamie Dimon , chief
executive officer of the largest and most profitable U.S. bank,
serves as a director of the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York .  Tarullo Testimony  Three senators, including  Bernie Sanders , a Vermont
independent, introduced legislation in May that would remove
bankers from the boards of the regional Fed banks. Fed Governor
 Daniel Tarullo  also was called to testify before Congress last
month on JPMorgan’s loss.  Operation Twist hasn’t met with the same level of criticism
from politicians as quantitative easing.  “Twist is better and has been much better received because
you’re not printing money; you’re rearranging your balance sheet
but you’re not adding to it,” Republican Representative Michael Grimm of New York said in an interview. “It’s still not
perfect, but it’s better than QE2.”  “Operation Twist is viewed as a more subtle, less
disruptive intervention,” Texas Representative  Kevin Brady , the
top Republican on the Joint Economic Committee, agreed in an
interview. “Quantitative easing has so much more of a direct
impact on the purchasing power of the dollar.”  Creating Reserves  Under QE, policy makers direct the markets desk at the New
York Fed to buy securities from primary dealers, or brokers who
are authorized to trade directly with the central bank, adding
funds to the dealers’ accounts and creating reserves at their
clearing banks.  After two rounds of bond purchases totaling $2.3 trillion,
the Fed’s balance sheet has more than tripled to  $2.87 trillion 
since August 2008, the month before Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. went bankrupt.  Operation Twist “actually has some fiscal benefit,” said
 John Campbell , a Republican representative from California.
“From the standpoint of managing the debt and the deficit, it
appears to be a smart move.” He added that “if the QE3 trigger
is pulled, there will be more criticism, and it will be a little
louder.”  Inflation Concerns  Despite Republicans’ concern about inflation in 2010,
prices are rising faster now than they were when QE2 was
announced. The personal-consumption-expenditures price index
climbed 1.5 percent for the 12 months through May, compared with
a 1.2 percent pace in November 2010. Both are below the Fed’s
inflation target of 2 percent.  Bernanke has focused on stimulus options relating to the
central bank’s balance sheet after lowering the target for the
benchmark federal funds rate to  near zero  in December 2008. In
addition to the two rounds of bond buying, the Fed last
September began extending the maturity of its portfolio.  The Fed chairman has said that both QE and Twist work by
lowering  interest rates  and removing Treasuries from the market,
which encourages investors to replace those holdings with other
assets, such as equities or corporate bonds. The Fed chairman on
June 20 called the extension of Operation Twist a “substantive
step” and said the Fed is “very serious” about making policy
decisions “on purely economic grounds, without political
considerations.”  Low Yields  The central bank’s bond buying has helped drive down
borrowing costs, with the yield on the benchmark 10-year
Treasury note touching an all-time low of  1.44 percent  on June
1. It was 1.55 percent on July 6.  Both programs have costs and benefits, prompting criticism
from within the Fed.  Jeffrey Lacker , president of the Richmond
district bank, dissented on the extension of Operation Twist,
asserting it won’t significantly boost growth and will spur
inflation.  Twist increases the interest-rate sensitivity of the Fed’s
holdings while also complicating its eventual exit strategy
because it won’t hold as many short-term securities that will
mature, said  Robert Eisenbeis , chief monetary economist at
Sarasota, Florida-based Cumberland Advisors. That will make it
more difficult to shrink the central bank’s portfolio without
dumping assets on the market, he added.  Not Textbook  “None of this is textbook, so I don’t think there’s a real
definitive view on how it all works, and so reasonable people
can disagree,” McCarthy said. “The ultimate objective of
either type of operation is to get the economy going.”  Fed officials predict inflation will fall short of their
goal this year, with prices  accelerating  between 1.2 percent and
1.7 percent. Their estimate for 2013 is for 1.5 percent to 2
percent.  The break-even rate for five-year Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities, the yield difference between the
inflation-linked debt and comparable maturity Treasuries, was
 1.77 percentage points  on July 6. The rate, a measure of the
outlook for consumer prices over the life of the securities, has
fallen from 2.19 points on March 14.  “Notwithstanding claims the Fed has been printing money
like crazy, one indicator of inflationary pressures is actually
significantly lower,” said  John Lonski , chief economist at
Moody’s Capital Markets Group in New York. Fed officials are
“trying to basically amplify the kick that they get out of
their current balance sheet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  