-- First Diet Pill in Decade Turns Arena Into Deal Bait: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-07-09T20:15:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/first-diet-pill-in-decade-turns-arena-into-deal-bait-real-m-a.html
The first medication in more than a
decade to help 78 million obese Americans slim down is turning
into takeover bait.  Arena Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ARNA)  won Food and Drug Administration
approval last month for Belviq, a treatment affecting an area of
the brain that helps a person feel full after consuming less
food. With the first weight-loss drug to be cleared for sale in
the U.S. in 13 years, Arena is projected by analysts to increase
revenue 18-fold in the next four years, the fastest growth in
the world among specialty pharmaceutical companies greater than
$1 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While Arena’s  494 percent  stock gain this year makes it the
most expensive U.S. specialty drugmaker relative to revenue, the
San Diego-based company offers potential buyers a medication
that Piper Jaffray Cos. estimates will reach $2 billion in
annual sales. Arena, with a $2.3 billion market value, may draw
takeover interest from  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , which is divesting
its diet pill Alli, said WBB Securities LLC. Tokyo-based  Eisai
Co. (4523) , which has licensed the rights to sell Belviq in the U.S.,
could also be an acquirer, said Lazard Capital Markets LLC.  “The large pharmaceutical companies are all on the edge of
their seats looking at Arena,” Stephen Brozak, president of WBB
Securities in Clark,  New Jersey , said in a telephone interview.
Obesity “is a global pandemic. There are people that absolutely
are in need of these types of products. Large pharma are
wonderful at marketing drugs and this is a product that lends
itself to marketing.”  Appetite Suppression  Today, shares of Arena rose 3.1 percent to $11.46.  “Arena is focused on bringing Belviq to the market in the
U.S. with Eisai and in obtaining approval of the drug in markets
outside of the U.S.,” David Schull, a spokesman for Arena, said
in an e-mailed statement when asked whether the company has been
approached by potential acquirers about a deal.  The FDA approved Belviq, previously called lorcaserin, on
June 27. The pill works in a similar way to fenfluramine, part
of the fen-phen appetite-suppression drug combination pulled
from pharmacies 15 years ago when it was linked to heart valve
abnormalities.  Arena and Eisai agreed to conduct six post-market studies
to assess the safety and efficacy of the drug, including
determining the potential for major cardiac risks such as heart
attack and stroke, the FDA said.  Belviq will be available after the Drug Enforcement
Administration completes a review to classify the drug based on
its potential for abuse, which Arena has said may take four to
six months.  Obesity Rate  “It’s the single most important thing that’s happened to
Arena in its entire history,” WBB Securities’ Brozak said.
“This is the first approval they’ve ever gotten.”  Analysts project that by 2015 Arena’s  sales  will have risen
faster than every other specialty drugmaker in the world with a
market capitalization greater than $1 billion, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The company’s  revenue  may total $232 million
that year, versus $13 million in 2011, according to analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  About 42 percent of the  U.S. population  may be obese by
2030, up from about a third currently, according to a report
presented at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s
obesity conference in May. Globally, about 500 million people
are obese, according to a World Health Organization report.
Obesity is defined as having a  body mass index  of more than 30.  Glaxo, the U.K.’s largest drugmaker, may be interested in
purchasing Arena to bolster its presence in the market for
weight-loss remedies after sales declined for Alli, its over-
the-counter diet pill, according to WBB Securities’ Brozak.  ‘Dress Rehearsal’  London-based Glaxo has said it plans to divest Alli, which
contains orlistat, a chemical that blocks the intestines from
absorbing fat when taken as many as three times a day with
meals. Orlistat has been linked to reports of liver injury,
prompting consumer advocacy groups to demand its removal from
the market. The FDA announced new warnings on the pill’s label
in mid-2010, and Glaxo has said that Alli is safe and effective
when used as directed.  Glaxo has “done the dress rehearsal,” so it would now
know how to best market Arena’s weight-loss drug, Brozak said.  Kevin Colgan, a spokesman for Glaxo, said the company
doesn’t comment on speculation, when asked whether it wants to
acquire Arena.  Other companies are also seeking approval for weight-loss
drugs. Qnexa from  Vivus Inc. (VVUS)  is slated for an FDA decision by
July 17.  Orexigen Therapeutics Inc. (OREX) , which is developing the
pill Contrave with Takeda Pharmaceutical Co., agreed in
September to conduct a two-year study of the drug’s heart risks.  Drug Partnership  Belviq is the first prescription obesity medicine to be
approved for sale in the U.S. since  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Xenical
in 1999. Glaxo’s Alli is a half-dose version of Xenical’s active
ingredient and received FDA clearance in 2007 as the first diet
drug available without a prescription.  Once available, lorcaserin will be marketed in the U.S. by
Eisai under the name Belviq and the company will pay Arena a
portion of the drug’s revenue. The partnership may deter
potential acquirers that don’t want to share Belviq’s sales,
said Alan Carr, a New York-based analyst for Needham & Co.  “Arena is much more attractive from an M&A perspective if
you’re getting worldwide rights,” he said in a phone interview.  Eisai’s Interest  Eisai may decide to buy Arena so that it collects all of
the revenue from Belviq, said  Bill Tanner , an analyst for Lazard
in  New York . The two companies have a so-called standstill
agreement that prevents the Japanese drugmaker from purchasing
Arena unless someone else tries to first. It’s intended to
protect Arena from a hostile takeover and wouldn’t prevent the
companies from negotiating a deal, Tanner said.  “If this is a big drug, it could be a fairly sizeable
payment that they have to make to Arena,” he said in a phone
interview. “It probably makes sense that they’d want to take a
look at acquiring it.”  Marcia Diljak, a spokeswoman for Eisai, declined to comment
on whether the company would be interested in buying Arena.  Eisai will probably want to first gauge Belviq’s commercial
success so that it doesn’t risk overpaying for Arena in case
sales are weaker than analysts expect, Tanner said.  Arena, which has posted an almost six-fold stock price
increase  this year , was valued as of last week at 52 times
analysts’ estimates for fiscal 2012 sales. That’s higher than
all 14 other specialty pharmaceutical companies in the U.S. that
have a market capitalization greater than $1 billion, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Even based on revenue  estimates  for
fiscal 2015, Arena trades at the second-richest multiple in the
group.  ‘Blockbuster Drug’  “If you knew for a fact that there wasn’t a buyer for the
company, I don’t think this stock would be where it is,”
Lazard’s Tanner said. “It’s not overly expensive if you think
it’s going to be a decent drug.”  Edward Tenthoff , a New York-based analyst for Piper
Jaffray, estimates Belviq will reach annual sales of $2 billion
just in the U.S. by 2020.  “The approval of a drug with the market potential of
Belviq certainly makes Arena” an acquisition candidate,
Tenthoff said in a phone interview. “This could be a true
blockbuster drug in an age when there are fewer and fewer
blockbusters.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at   srabil@bloomberg.net . 