-- Franco-German Amity Needed for Strengthened Euro, Leaders Say
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-07-08T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/greater-franco-german-amity-crucial-for-strong-euro-leaders-say.html
French President  Francois Hollande 
and German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said friendship between
their nations is critical to saving the common currency, putting
aside until today their differences on solving the euro debt
crisis.  The leaders of the European Union’s two biggest economies
met yesterday in the eastern French city of Reims to celebrate
the moment 50 years ago when their predecessors,  Charles de Gaulle  and  Konrad Adenauer , signed a reconciliation treaty and
buried the enmity that had sparked three wars in 90 years.  Resolving divisions between the two countries will be at
the heart of euro-area finance ministers’ talks in Brussels
today and during a subsequent gathering on July 20. The two
meetings follow clashes between Hollande and Merkel at the June
28-29 European summit, where the German chancellor faced
pressure from France,  Italy  and  Spain  to agree greater burden
sharing for the currency zone’s debt burden.  “At each step of European construction, the German-French
friendship was the base,” Hollande said outside Reims cathedral
yesterday as he stood alongside Merkel under rainy skies. “I
propose to you that we open a new door to even tighter
friendship.”  European Union  leaders agreed at the June summit to ease
the way to direct financing for troubled banks, to start work on
Europe-wide bank supervision, and to ease access to the EU’s
bailout mechanisms. Finance ministers have been asked to hammer
out the details.  Spanish Yields Rise  Yields on Spanish 10-year bonds fell to a three-week low of
6.17 percent after the summit, before rising three consecutive
days to end last week at 6.87 percent. The dollar rallied to
$1.2291 per euro in  New York  on July 6, its biggest jump against
the common currency since the five days ending Sept. 9.  “The European economic and currency union, as founded 20
years ago, has proved itself not strong enough yet,” Merkel
said yesterday at the ceremony. “Our generation has to draw the
right lessons from that.”  European sovereign debt yields are a concern and euro area
finance ministers should act to counter them, Italy’s Prime
Minister  Mario Monti  said yesterday. Wide spreads were also “a
concern for the financial stability of the  euro zone ” and “for
the efficient transmission of monetary policy,” he said during
a meeting in Aix-en-Provence, France.  Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy July 7 pleaded with
other euro-area countries to make good on the June summit
pledges, which include the option of government bond purchases
by  Europe ’s rescue funds for countries meeting the euro’s
existing debt and deficit rules.  ‘Words to Deeds’  “It’s time to go from words to deeds,” he said during a
speech in Navacerrada near  Madrid . “Europe must comply as
quickly as possible with the agreements its leaders reached in
Brussels. The European project is at stake,” he said.  “Last week’s EU summit delivered measures to manage the
euro-area crisis while signaling limited but important progress
toward regional integration and burden sharing,” Bruce Kasman,
chief economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in a note to
clients on July 7. “However, this week showed participants
interpreting the agreement in widely different ways. These
tensions will be evident at the eurogroup meeting.”  Troubled Banks  Among the issues finance ministers will have to tackle
today is how to start funneling as much as 100 billion euros
($123 billion) in aid to troubled Spanish banks without boosting
the government’s debt load. Ministers are likely to initially
channel the money via a Spanish state agency because the 500
billion-euro European Stability Mechanism won’t be operational
until a still-unspecified date in the summer, an EU official
told reporters in Brussels on July 6 on condition of anonymity.  Direct capital injections by the ESM into banks are
unlikely to be authorized before two waves of Spanish
recapitalizations are completed by the middle of next year, by
when the ECB should have created a Europe-wide bank supervisor,
the official said.  French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  said in an
interview with Figaro on July 1 that the French government sees
jointly issued bonds as a solution to the crisis, while adding,
“I understand that for the moment it’s a red line that our
German friends can’t cross.”  Those differences were hidden yesterday in Reims, whose
cathedral was badly damaged by German shelling in World War I
and where Supreme Allied Commander Dwight D. Eisenhower received
the German surrender in World War II.  Flag Waving  Merkel and Hollande greeted crowds waving French and German
flags before attending a ceremony at the cathedral where
Catholic Archbishop Thierry Jordan read a message in both
languages. The leaders opened a museum and then lunched at the
town hall after their public addresses.  Hollande and Merkel now face a challenge that concerns not
just their countries but Europe and its place in the world,
Jordan said at the ceremony.  Hollande mentioned the euro crisis in his speech, saying
that the proposed banking union agreed at the EU summit was the
“first step to a budgetary union, which will open the way to
stability, growth, and tighter ties.”  He said  France  and  Germany  must defend the euro with
“strict rules, powerful instruments and common policies.”  Merkel’s pursuit of policies opposed by the three other big
euro members may be paying off with German voters, who go to the
polls in the fall of 2013. Her approval rating rose to 66
percent, the highest since December 2009, in a poll taken after
she fended off joint euro-area bonds at the European summit,
broadcaster ARD said on July 6.  Greek Plea  France’s Moscovici said yesterday that he expects
“tangible progress” at the Brussels meeting, which will also
tackle  Greece ’s plea for a relaxation of its bailout terms and
Cyprus’s call for banking aid.  Finance ministers are also expected to fill a vacancy on
the European Central Bank’s Executive Board, in a contest
between Yves Mersch of Luxembourg and Antonio Sainz de Vicuna of
Spain, the official said.  The ECB slot, empty since June 1, has to be filled before
the ministers tackle two other sensitive appointments.
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker ’s term as chairman
of euro finance meetings expires on July 17, and the ESM
permanent bailout fund requires a head. Germany has nominated
Klaus Regling, head of the temporary bailout fund, to manage the
permanent one as well.  Moscovici said yesterday that France favors Juncker staying
on in the euro group post.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  