-- Growing Resource Nationalism Deters Mining Investment, E&Y Says
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2012-07-08T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/growing-resource-nationalism-deters-mining-investment-e-y-says.html
Countries’ rising demands for higher
mining taxes and royalties, led by  Australia ’s efforts to take a
greater share of the profit from its minerals, deters investors
from committing to projects, according to Ernst & Young.  “What’s probably more of an issue here is how much slowing
down there will be in those yet-to-be approved projects,” said
Michael Elliott, covering mining and metals for E&Y in Sydney.
Projects scheduled for development from 2014 will probably be
abandoned in nations that boost taxes and royalties, he said.  The so-called resource nationalism is the top concern for
mining companies, along with skill shortages, infrastructure
access and costs, according to an E&Y report released today.  Australia, the biggest coal and iron-ore exporter, passed a
law this year to reap about $11 billion in tax in three years
from companies including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , Rio Tinto Group and
 Xstrata Plc (XTA)  and bring the government budget into surplus. That
followed the ouster of Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  in 2010 after
mining companies campaigned against his planned 40 percent tax.  The Treasury said in May resource industries will grow at
an annual 9 percent pace, compared with 2 percent for the rest
of the economy in the next two years. Mine and energy companies
will invest a record A$120 billion ($122 billion) in the fiscal
year that began July 1, up 150 percent from two years earlier,
under a A$450 billion resource investment pipeline, it said.  Share the Benefits  “Australians know how important the  mining industry  is but
they also know that we can only dig up and sell the resources
once,” Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  and Treasurer  Wayne Swan 
said in a joint statement in March. The tax is “an historic
reform to share the benefits of the mining boom” that only
“super-profitable mining companies” will pay, they said.  The  Democratic Republic  of Congo, Ghana, Mongolia, Poland,
Peru and the U.S. are among those that proposed or imposed tax
or royalty gains in 2011 or the first half of 2012, E&Y said.  “This is the sector that has become quite a soft target
because it’s providing much higher returns than many other
sectors,” Elliot said. Australia “gave a lot of other resource
producing countries cover to look at similar policies.”  South Africa , Indonesia,  Zimbabwe , Brazil and Vietnam have
also sought to discourage ore exports and increase processing
in-country to get more value from their minerals, according to
the report.  Indonesia , Southeast Asia’s largest economy, in May
taxed exports of 21 metal ores and concentrates at 20 percent.  “Indonesia is a good case study,” Elliot said. “A lot of
those value-destroying policies are actually present.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  