-- Hip Pocket Impact From Carbon Price Modest, Says Swan
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-07-08T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/hip-pocket-impact-from-carbon-price-modest-says-swan.html
Australian households will see only a
“modest” impact from carbon pricing and most citizens will
come out neutral or ahead thanks to tax cuts and benefit changes,
Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said.  While the carbon price of A$23 ($23.49) a metric ton, which
came into force July 1, will increase electricity  bills  by 10
percent this year and add 0.7 percent to the  consumer price
index  over the next 12 months, most households will be
compensated, he said in a weekly economic note yesterday.  “Australians can now begin judging the price on carbon
pollution for themselves,” Swan said in an e-mailed statement.
“We’ve moved from rhetoric to reality.”  Australian opposition leader  Tony Abbott  has promised to
repeal the carbon pricing regime if he wins an election
scheduled for next year, saying that the policy will raise
living costs, hurt jobs, and goes against pre-election promises
by Prime Minister  Julia Gillard .  “This is the world’s biggest carbon tax at the worst
possible time,” Abbott told Australian Broadcasting Corp.
television yesterday. “We are exposing ourselves to all sorts
of economic damage without doing any environmental good.”  About 6 million households will receive assistance
averaging A$10.10 a week to help with power prices that will
rise by A$3.30 a week, Swan said, with 4 million households to
end up better off.  Swan said that the approval by  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and  Origin
Energy Ltd. (ORG)  on July 4 of the second stage of their A$20 billion
Australia Pacific LNG project was evidence that carbon pricing
and a separate tax on mining and offshore petroleum profits
weren’t hurting resource investment.  ‘Investment Skyrocketed’  “Far from sounding the death knell of the resource sector,
investment has skyrocketed since both policies were announced,”
Swan said.  Recent data on dwelling approvals, retail sales, services
activity and business credit was “encouraging” evidence about
the non-mining economy, he said: “We are the standout performer
in the developed world.”  Australia ’s fixed price on carbon is scheduled to become an
emissions-trading program in 2015, similar to systems used by
the European Union and New Zealand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  