-- Iran Seeks to Bypass Oil Curbs Using Local Fuel Exporters
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-07-08T13:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/iran-seeks-to-bypass-oil-curbs-using-fuel-exporters-mehr-says.html
An association of Iranian oil-product
exporters will help the government bypass European Union
sanctions and ship as much as 500,000 barrels a day, state-run
 Mehr  news agency reported.  Iran ’s central bank and Oil Ministry signed an agreement
with the Iranian Oil, Gas & Petrochemical Products Exporters’
Association, said Hassan Khosrojerdi, the head of the exporters’
group,  Mehr  reported yesterday. Khosrojerdi said the arrangement
would enable Iran to sell crude to  Europe , though he gave no
details about how such sales would occur under the July 1 EU
embargo.  Officials will sign a contract this week for the group’s
first shipment, he said, according to Mehr. The exporters have
reached an agreement to supply some crude to privately owned
European refineries, Khosrojerdi said, without identifying the
buyers. Some “minor” discounts may be given because of the
international restrictions, he said.  The Tehran-based exporters’ association has 214 member
companies, according to its  website .  The EU ban on Iranian oil builds on earlier U.S. and United
Nations measures limiting trade and financial transactions with
the Persian Gulf country. The measures attempt to force Iranian
officials to curb the country’s nuclear program, which the U.S.
says conceals the development of weapons. Iran rejects the
allegation and says its program is civilian.  Economic Effects  Since the energy measures came into effect this month, top
Iranian officials have started acknowledging their effects on
the economy.  The head of Iran’s executive, legislative, and judicial
branches held a special meeting yesterday to discuss ways to
counter Western-led sanctions against Iran, the state-run Mehr
news agency said in a separate report.  During the meeting, President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad ,
Parliamentary Speaker Ali Larijani, and Judiciary Chief Sadegh Larijani emphasized the need for cooperation in fighting
sanctions, Mehr said.  Ahmadinejad and his cabinet also briefed the country’s
Expediency Council, which has the final say in legislative
disputes, on Iran’s economic situation and measures to
neutralize sanctions’ effects, according to the report published
late yesterday.  Iran has developed back-up plans for crude-tanker
insurance, according to a separate report by the state-run  Fars 
news agency.  Mohammad-Reza Mohamadi-Banayi, managing director of the
 Kish Protection & Indemnity Club , said Iran’s oil tankers are
covered by local insurers and an additional 13 tankers will be
insured by his organization, according to the report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  