-- Japanese Pension Assets Fall as Payouts Exceed Contributions
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2012-07-08T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/japanese-pension-assets-fall-as-payouts-exceed-contributions.html
Japanese corporate and government
pension assets managed by investment companies fell 4.5 percent
to 79 trillion yen ($990 billion) last fiscal year as payouts
exceeded contributions, said the  Japan  Pensions Industry
Database.  The assets were spread over 5,186 mandates held by 110
firms in the year ended March 31, with foreign managers making
up 14 of the top 25 investment companies, said the Hong Kong-
based industry researcher.  BlackRock Japan Co. (BLK)  managed the most
money with 13.8 trillion yen, followed by Sumitomo Mitsui Trust
 Bank Holdings Inc. (TBHS)  and Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., according to
the report, which used filings with the Japan Securities
Investment Advisers Association.  Japanese pensions oversee $3.36 trillion, the world’s
second-largest pool of retirement assets after the U.S., with 98
percent of them employing defined-benefit plans, according to
 Towers Watson & Co. (TW)  The funds, which have traditionally invested
mainly in bonds, have been expanding their strategies to
maintain steady returns and fund retiree benefits as the country
faces a shrinking workforce, with 2012 marking the first year
the nation’s baby boomers are set to retire.  “As the search for yield intensifies, demand for new
products that can provide it should grow,” said Jo McBride, the
publisher at the Japan Pensions Industry Database.  Mandated Funds  The report only includes assets mandated to investment
managers, while the rest is kept in pooled accounts at trust
banks and life insurers, which are not included in the
association’s figures, according to the report.  Assets of Japan’s  Government Pension Investment Fund , the
world’s biggest and known as GPIF, handled by fund companies
stood at 56.4 trillion yen, while corporate pensions’ money
outsourced to managers stood at 22.6 trillion yen, the report
showed.  BlackRock Japan, Sumitomo Mitsui Trust and Mizuho Trust
together accounted for 44 percent of the assets managed.  Ten companies including ING Mutual Funds Management, KTOs
Capital Partners and Mizuho Global Alternative Investments
reported their first mandates during the period, demonstrating
that there is still a market for those offering different
strategies, according to the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Singapore at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 