-- Japan’s Unsatisfying Nuclear Report
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-07-08T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/japan-s-nuke-report-undercuts-itself-with-cultural-copout.html
By Japanese standards, the  report 
released Thursday by the Fukushima Nuclear Accident Independent
Investigation Commission could be considered remarkable.  Its 641 pages, drawing on town-hall meetings, household
surveys, more than 900 hours of hearings and interviews with
1,167 people are the product of an unprecedented six-month
inquiry -- the first independent investigation in Japan to have
subpoena power.  Its account of the March 11, 2011, earthquake, tsunami and
ensuing nuclear meltdown, which displaced about 160,000 people
and left parts of Japan unlivable, differs in crucial ways from
those of Japan’s nuclear regulatory agencies, the  Tokyo Electric
Power Co. (9501)  that operated the plants and then-Prime Minister  Naoto Kan . Most important, the report squarely blames the catastrophe
on a pattern of human failure, not a freakish act of nature.  Yet for all its detail and willingness to label the
Fukushima disaster as “profoundly manmade,” the report does not
identify which men (and this being Japan, there probably weren’t
many women) failed. Instead, it sweepingly indicts “the
ingrained conventions of Japanese culture,” effectively letting
individual culprits off the hook. Its conclusions and
recommendations avoid any discussion of  prosecution  or
punishment.  Still, the report helps guide the way forward. A crucial
finding is that the earthquake prior to the tsunami may have
incapacitated one of the reactors and its safety equipment -- a
possibility that Tepco had resolutely denied. Moreover, the
commission found that Tepco had not upgraded that reactor’s
seismic defenses as required by  Japan ’s  Nuclear and Industrial
Safety Agency , that the agency failed to enforce that upgrade
and that the recorded seismic motion at Fukushima actually
exceeded even the level that the standards were meant to protect
against.  These findings suggest that Japan’s decision to restart
some of its reactors -- the first, in Ohi on Japan’s west coast,
resumed operation a week ago -- is premature. The Ohi reactor
passed the  stress test  required in the aftermath of Fukushima,
but that is no guarantee it could withstand an earthquake of the
same 9.0 magnitude. One of the country’s most vocal seismic
whistle-blowers, Katsuhiko Ishibashi, who foretold the potential
for the disastrous 1995 Kobe earthquake as well as a Fukushima-
like event, has  warned  that the government is underestimating
the restarted plant’s vulnerability.  Given the risks involved, the prevalence of seismic
activity in Japan and the  diminishing enthusiasm  of the Japanese
public for nuclear energy, it would be sensible for Prime
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  to err on the side of caution and set as
a temporary benchmark the ability to withstand a 9.0 earthquake
before a reactor can go back online.  Temporary is the key here, because rigorous new standards
will take time to refine and should be the purview of the new
independent regulatory body that the commission calls for, and
that the government is moving too slowly to establish. The long
history of collusion between companies such as Tepco and the
Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency -- housed in the Ministry
of Economy, Trade and Industry, which also promotes Japan’s
nuclear industry -- has contributed to numerous deadly incidents
and near-misses. The commission also rightly calls for Japan’s
Diet to more closely supervise this new regulatory body. NISA
resisted the commission’s inquiry, and Tepco still  refuses  to
turn over video footage of conference calls held during the
crisis that might shed still more light on it. More political
heat might make it easier to overcome such recalcitrance in the
future.  Where the report falls seriously short, however, is the
aspect that has drawn the most approving attention: its
conclusion that the near-cataclysm at Fukushima was, at bottom,
a cultural mishap. It is both a copout and a cliche to fall back
on Japan’s “groupism” and say that “had other Japanese been in
the shoes of those who bear responsibility for this accident,
the result may well have been the same.” Japan is hardly the
only country where safety regulations are poorly enforced and
old-boy networks protect industry interests. Witness the 2006
Sago mine explosion in the U.S., where hundreds of earlier
safety violations brought only low fines, and the revolving door
between the coal mining industry and the U.S. Department of
Interior was in full swing.  Moreover, notwithstanding the commission’s lament about the
Japanese “reluctance to question authority,” many citizens did
repeatedly  express  their concerns about the safety of Tepco’s
Fukushima reactors, including legislators from Japan’s Communist
Party. Their warnings were brushed aside by those in power.
Let’s hope that the otherwise instructive findings and
recommendations of this commission are not.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on whether it’s a  penalty or a
tax  and the  latest jobs report ; William D. Cohan on Finra’s
 captive arbitration system ; Susan P. Crawford on whether  Google
is a monopoly ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  gaming the Electoral College ;
 Simon Johnson  on  banks’ living wills ;  Pankaj Mishra  on the false
promise of  Asian values ; Jed Kolko on the downside of  rising
house prices .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 