-- Japan Current-Account Surplus Shrinks 63% as Machine Orders Drop
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2012-07-09T07:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/japan-posts-a-smaller-than-expected-current-account-surplus.html
Japan’s current-account surplus was
the smallest for the month of May since at least 1985 and
machinery orders fell the most in more than a decade.  The  excess  in the widest measure of trade shrank 63 percent
from a year earlier to 215.1 billion yen ($2.7 billion), the
Ministry of Finance said in  Tokyo  today. The median estimate of
24 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a surplus of
493.1 billion yen. Machinery orders, an indicator of  capital
spending , fell 14.8 percent in May from the previous month, the
Cabinet Office said, the biggest drop since 2001.  Japan’s trade position has weakened due to growing energy
imports after last year’s earthquake and nuclear meltdown and
also the yen’s gain of 4.9 percent against the dollar since mid-
March. Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  gave approval for a restart
of reactors at the Ohi nuclear plant, which resumed power
generation last week, to avoid power shortages and rolling
blackouts over the summer.  “Today’s machinery order drop is very large, and it may be
a signal that Japanese companies are becoming cautious about
investment” amid concern about a global economic slowdown, said
 Hiroaki Muto , a senior economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset
Management in Tokyo. “Though exports have been slumping, we
don’t expect Japan to have any major trade deficit.”  The yen traded at 79.73 against the dollar as of 2:32 p.m.
in Tokyo. The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  slid 1.2 percent.  Tokyo
Electron Ltd. (8035)  fell 5.8 percent after the company last week said
orders in April-June period fell 28 percent.  Growing Uncertainty  “Uncertainties over the outlook for the global economy are
growing as the economies in the U.S. and China have been doing
worse than people anticipated while  Europe  remains weak,” said
Mika Ikeda, an economist at Nomura Securities Co. in Tokyo.  Orders from chemical makers and aerospace manufacturers
were among sectors that led the declines, according to today’s
report. Given that a separate central bank survey released last
week showed companies plan to increase outlays this year,
today’s report may just be a “one-off decline,” Ikeda said.  Japan  posted a 4.4 trillion yen trade deficit in the fiscal
year that ended March 31 as energy imports rose and exports fell
due to the yen’s gains and weak demand in Europe and Asia.
Income from investment abroad, which includes interest payments
and dividends on equities and debt securities, has served as a
buffer against a deficit in the current account balance.  The economy grew at an annualized 4.7 percent pace in the
first three months of this year, a pace which probably cooled to
2 percent in the second quarter and about 1.5 percent in the
last 6 months of 2012, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  Economic Evaluation  The  Bank of Japan  raised its economic evaluation of all
regions for the first time in more than two years, citing
improvements in  consumer spending  and rebuilding demand from
last year’s earthquake, it said in a report released last week.  Kansai Electric Power Co. (9503) , the nation’s second-biggest
generator, resumed electricity generation at its No. 3 reactor
at the Ohi plant in central Japan on July 5. That ended a two-
month period in which all 50 of the country’s reactors were off-
line.  “The restart of a Ohi nuclear reactor itself will only
have limited impact on energy imports,” unless there will be
more developments on a restart of other nuclear plants,
 Yoshimasa Maruyama , chief economist at  Itochu Corp. (8001)  in Tokyo,
said before the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  