-- Jibril Says Alliance Is Open to Governing Coalition in Libya
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n   a n d   B r i g i t t e   S c h e f f e r
-- 2012-07-09T14:07:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/jibril-says-alliance-is-open-to-governing-coalition-in-libya.html
Mahmoud Jibril, head of the political
alliance tipped by some Libyan media to win the July 7
parliamentary election, said he favored a coalition government.  “We extend an invitation, continued as before, to other
political forces to come together in one coalition under one
banner,” Jibril, leader of the National Forces Alliance, said
in a press conference at the group’s election office in the
Libyan capital of Tripoli yesterday. “This is a sincere call
for all political parties to come together.”  Libyans went to the polls at the weekend in their first
free national election in more than 40 years amid political
violence that may hamper efforts to rebuild after last year’s
uprising that caused Qaddafi’s overthrow and death. Islamist
groups sought to emulate the success of their counterparts in
Tunisia and  Egypt , a trend which culminated in the election of
the Muslim Brotherhood-backed Mohamed Mursi as Egypt’s president
last month.  The first results of the vote will be announced today, with
the final tally scheduled to be released on July 11,  Libya ’s
High National Elections Commission said yesterday. An appeals
process will be available for challenges before a final result
is declared for the new 200-seat national assembly.  Voter Turnout  Voter turnout was 60 percent according to preliminary
figures, Al Jazeera television reported yesterday, citing Nouri
Al-Abbar, the head of the country’s election commission. Voters
were choosing between about 142 parties and 3,700 candidates.  The turnout may have been affected by “violence
experienced on the election day and before,” Alexander Graf
Lambsdorff, head of the European Union assessment team, said
during a press conference in Tripoli today. “We will need to
analyze further data to see if there are links.”  The pre-election period was marked by the eastern region’s
push for a measure of autonomy and the transitional council’s
failure to wrest power from regional militias which spearheaded
last year’s NATO-backed uprising. Fighting among the armed
groups this year has undermined security and discouraged local
businesses. Protests delayed elections in some towns and shut-
off oil exports.  Jibril dismissed speculation that his party was leading in
the election count, in which 80 seats are reserved for party
lists and 120 for individual candidates.  Front-Runners  “They say in the media that we said we won,” Jibril said.
“We did not. We are still silent and confident in the clear
results that will come out.”  The Alliance, and the Muslim Brotherhood’s Justice and
Construction party, were both expected to be front-runners in
the election, the first since the downfall and death of  Muammar Qaddafi  last year. Jibril, a former economics minister during
the Qaddafi era, joined the opposition and became prime minister
last year under the rebel National Transitional Council. He’s
seen as favoring a more moderate strand of Islam than the
Justice and Construction Party.  Speaking in both Arabic and English, Jibril said he
occupied the political center. “Some media channels started
referring to the National Forces Alliance as liberals -- that’s
not true,” he said. The party is “composed of different
political formations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Stephen in Tripoli at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net ;
Brigitte Scheffer in Tripoli at 
 bscheffer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  