-- Netanyahu Says Any Ultra-Orthodox Draft Must Be in Stages
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2012-07-08T11:23:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/netanyahu-says-any-ultra-orthodox-draft-must-be-in-stages.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said changes in government policy to require more
ultra-Orthodox Jews to perform national service must be made
gradually to avoid exacerbating tensions.  Netanyahu said he will establish a team with Vice Prime
Minister Shaul Mofaz to work on a new law to limit deferments
for ultra-Orthodox men, which will present its proposals at the
next Cabinet meeting, according to an e-mailed statement today
from the Prime Minister’s Office.  “I believe that a decisive majority of Israeli citizens,
including many ultra-Orthodox, understand that we need a
change,” Netanyahu told the Cabinet today in Jerusalem. “In
order for this increased integration to succeed, we need to
carry it out in stages and in a way that will not cause national
rifts.”  At least 20,000 Israelis rallied in  Tel Aviv  last night to
demand that the government cancel most draft deferments for
ultra-Orthodox Jews and require them to become soldiers or
perform community service. The protest movement has intensified
ahead of a July 31 court-ordered deadline to rewrite the law on
deferments.  Mofaz’s Kadima party, which holds the largest number of
parliamentary seats, joined Netanyahu’s Likud-led government in
May after the prime minister pledged to substantially reduce the
number of deferments granted to ultra-Orthodox men engaged in
state-subsidized religious studies.  Political Crisis  On July 4, a government-appointed committee headed by
Kadima parliament member Yohanan Plesner recommended limiting
the number of deferments granted to ultra-Orthodox men for
religious studies to 1,500 a year and fining those who try to
avoid national service. About 8,500 religious deferments were
granted in 2011.  The so-called Plesner Committee released its
recommendations even though Netanyahu attempted to defuse a
political crisis surrounding the issue by disbanding the panel
after several members resigned in protest. Two religious parties
in the coalition, Shas and United Torah Judaism, have objected
to the panel’s proposals.  Working out a national service policy for the ultra-
Orthodox, or haredim as they are called in  Israel , would enable
more of them to enter the workforce. The ultra-orthodox
currently may be subject to the draft if they leave seminary
studies to look for work.  Growing Population  About 45 percent of ultra-Orthodox men  work , compared with
about 80 percent of other Jewish males in Israel, according to
the  Bank of Israel . While the ultra-Orthodox make up about 8
percent to 10 percent of the population, they will represent 17
percent of working-age Israelis in 20 years because of their
high birthrate, the bank said.  Foreign Minister Avigdor Liberman, head of the Yisrael
Beitenu party, is demanding that the government require Arab
citizens to perform alternative non-military service. Netanyahu
said his proposal will require Israeli Arabs to do some kind of
national service.  Although some members of the Druze and Bedouin communities
serve in the army, most Arab citizens are exempt from the draft.
Many Arab citizens object to Israel as a Jewish state and
complain that they face discrimination by the government.  “After 64 years in which the matter has not been taken
care of as it should, we are undertaking a historic process - a
dramatic increase in the participation of the ultra-Orthodox and
Israeli Arab public in sharing in the national burden,”
Netanyahu said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in  Jerusalem  at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  