-- New York Feasting, From Chinese Ice Cream to Spotted Pig
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-07-08T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/new-york-chefs-strike-gold-with-bargain-bistro-banquets.html
New York  is such a great city for
eating out, it can be difficult to choose where to go.  Here’s a dining diary of a recent trip from  London  to meet
chefs and restaurateurs. I visited more than 20 establishments.
While I got special treatment in some restaurants, I enjoyed
others where I wasn’t known.  ABC Kitchen: Fresh, local, organic ingredients are
assembled into simple dishes where the flavors stand out. ABC is
owned by  Jean-Georges Vongerichten , who made my booking. I had a
lunch of pea soup with cheese puff and herbs, followed by a
mushroom, parmesan, oregano and farm-egg whole-wheat pizza. I
loved it. I could see ABC working well in London and other
cities.  http://www.abckitchennyc.com/ .  Baohaus: This Taiwanese street-food joint serves flavor-
packed buns such as the Chairman Bao: Braised Berkshire pork
belly, served with crushed peanut, cilantro, Haus Relish, and
Taiwanese red sugar. It draws a young crowd, possibly because
the hip-hop volume is turned up to 11. Conversation would be
difficult. (Thanks to Ken Friedman of Spotted Pig for the
recommendation.)  http://www.baohausnyc.com/ .  Battersby: This cramped and crowded  Brooklyn  venue offers
an eclectic menu that changes daily, with an emphasis on the
flavors of the Mediterranean. I’ve previously reviewed Battersby
(along with Buvette) so I won’t write more here. Suffice to say
it is good. (Thanks to Ed Levine of  http://www.seriouseats.com/ 
for the recommendation.)  http://battersbybrooklyn.com/ .  Buvette: Chef Jody Williams must be proud of what she has
achieved at this small venue, where you line up for a seat even
before it opens and then feast on classic French fare such as
coq au vin and cassoulet. The wine list is well chosen and there
are excellent American cheeses, too. (Thanks to  David Bouley  of
Bouley for the recommendation.)  http://www.ilovebuvette.com/ .  Boulud Sud: I flew out from London with  Daniel Boulud  and
he made the reservations for here and Daniel. The Mediterranean
food at Boulud Sud is as fresh and accurately cooked as anyone
could ask. The quality of the ingredients stands out. I just
wish Boulud Sud attracted a younger crowd. I dislike eating with
people my own age.  http://www.danielnyc.com/boulud_sud.html .  Chinatown Ice Cream Factory : This family-run business is
Chinatown’s oldest, according to the website. I found the bright
colors and the sweet flavors unappetizing but it’s worth an
after-dinner visit just for the fun of it.
 http://chinatownicecreamfactory.com/ .  Daniel: Boulud made the booking for me, though as the food
and service were first class when I dined there anonymously on
previous occasions, I’m not sure that made a lot of difference.
You come here for classic French cooking seasoned with American
flair. The service is faultless. This is a restaurant for
special occasions.  http://www.danielnyc.com/ .  Eleven Madison Park: It’s my favorite restaurant in New
York, followed by Le Bernardin. I had lunch at EMP hours after
attending a party there in the early hours to celebrate  Daniel
Humm  winning the top James Beard award for outstanding chef. For
the sake of transparency, I should mention that I’m friends with
Humm and co-owner William Guidara, who made the booking for me.
I’ve reviewed EMP previously.  http://elevenmadisonpark.com/ .  Hakkasan: This London-based, Abu Dhabi-owned Chinese
restaurant is taking a beating from critics in New York,
including my colleague Ryan Sutton. Hakkasan is one of my
favorite places in London and the food in New York was just as
outstanding. So were the prices. Lunch for one was $120.31, plus
tip. (That’s including one $20 glass of wine.)
 http://www.hakkasan.com/ .  Henry Public: This is a new neighborhood bar in Brooklyn
that’s handy for Battersby. It’s the baby brother of Brooklyn
Social and is gaining attention for its short  menu . I enjoyed
the  cocktails  and the youthful crowd.
 http://henrypublic.com/index.html .  Hot Kitchen: A Sichuan restaurant that’s easy to miss
unless you spot the crowd inside, which is mainly Chinese. It
serves authentic fare at the kind of prices that make life
difficult for Hakkasan. For somewhere so busy, the service is
admirably attentive and efficient. (Thanks to  David Chang  of
Momofuku for the recommendation.)  http://www.hotkitchennyc.com/ .  Keste: This restaurant didn’t write the book on pizza, it
follows it. Keste is the official location in the U.S. of the
 Associazione Pizzaiuoli Napoletani  whose mission is to protect
and preserve the Neapolitan pizza tradition. While I couldn’t
fault my Regina Margherita, my enjoyment of Franny’s in Brooklyn
clouds my appreciation of everywhere else.
 http://www.kestepizzeria.com/home.html .  Maialino: This is Danny Meyer’s new restaurant in the
Gramercy Park Hotel, and I came to meet Meyer for breakfast.
I’ve known him for five years and I still marvel at the
consistently high level of hospitality in his venues, from Shake
Shack to Gramercy Tavern. I watched him cross the room chatting
to guests at this neighborhood trattoria, and I want to go back.
 http://www.maialinonyc.com/ .  Minetta Tavern: Keith McNally’s Greenwich Village bistro is
a different animal by day and by night. At lunchtime, I enjoyed
a quiet meal of Huitres et Crepinettes (truffled pork sausage
with salt-pond oysters) and pasta with pancetta, sage, parmesan,
and a fried egg. At dinner, the place was crowded, noisy and
hopping like a nightclub. What was consistent was the quality of
the food and the courteous service. I enjoyed it.
 http://minettatavernny.com/ .  Monkey Bar: I’ve previously savored Damon Wise’s food here.
Now, I know Monkey Bar is also a good spot for a late drink. The
bar is open until 2 a.m. and it’s just how I imagine a classic
New York lounge should be.  http://www.monkeybarnewyork.com/ .  NoMad: This new restaurant, in the hotel of the same name,
is supervised by Humm and Guidara. (Guidara made the booking for
me.) The restaurant is spread over several rooms, including a
bar and a library. It’s Humm unplugged and I prefer the decor to
that of the mother ship. This was my standout new restaurant of
the trip.  http://www.thenomadhotel.com/#/dining .  North End Grill: I went to this other new  Danny Meyer 
restaurant with chef April Bloomfield and London restaurateurs
 Russell Norman  and Richard Beatty. Meyer made the booking. So,
this was never going to be an average lunch. Chef Floyd Cardoz
(ex-Tabla) serves simple dishes such as burgers and pasta with a
twist that takes them out of the ordinary. The bak choi has a
ginger-lobster glaze, the fries are spice-dusted and the lamb
merguez sausage comes with lemon confit.
 http://northendgrillnyc.com/ .  Nougatine: I made the booking for this casual restaurant
next to Jean-Georges and when I arrived, Vongerichten was there
and offered to cook for me. It was an outstanding meal, one of
the best in the past couple of years, with each dish showing
flair and even flamboyance, yet never losing focus in terms of
flavor and beauty. (Thanks to  Angela Hartnett  of Murano for the
recommendation.)  http://www.jean-georges.com/ .  PDT: The name stands for Please Don’t Tell. You reach this
speakeasy-style lounge via a phone booth in Crif Dogs. I thought
everyone was in on this wheeze until a customer in the hot-dog
cafe stared in amazement as a friend and I passed through. While
PDT is more about the cocktails and ambience -- it’s moodily
dark -- than the food, the deep-fried mayonnaise (a Wylie Dufresne creation) on the hot dogs was a revelation. That crispy
texture elevates the mutts to pedigrees. (Thanks to Sandia Chang
of Bubbledogs for the recommendation.)  http://pdtnyc.com/ .  Spotted Pig: The top-floor bar here is akin to a private
club, which is why the likes of Jay-Z and Beyonce can drop by to
hang out. The restaurant is well worth a visit, though there may
be a long wait. (I’m friendly with April Bloomfield, the Spotted
Pig’s British chef.)  http://www.thespottedpig.com/ .  Sushisamba: There’s much excitement in London that this
U.S. mini-chain is coming to town. The Park branch was dull on a
Sunday, although the service was good and I hear that the place
livens up in the evening.  http://sushisamba.com .  Thelewala: This is a simple Indian street-food counter
across MacDougal Street from Minetta Tavern. You can perch on a
stool to eat wraps or get takeout. If I lived in the Village,
I’d be going back all the time. I love Indian food and I hadn’t
realized it could be so good in New York. (Thanks to Boulud for
the tip.)  http://www.thelewalanyc.com/ .  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine,  Martin
Gayford  on art and  Zinta Lundborg’s  interviews.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines, in New York, at  rvines@bloomberg.net  or
 http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 