-- Night of Frenzied Buying Portends Slowing China Car Sales
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-08T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/night-of-frenzied-buying-portends-slowing-china-car-sales.html
In three years as a car salesman,
Rooney Chen had never pulled an all-nighter. Then came June 30.  At 9 p.m. that Saturday, when all 57 showrooms at the Race
Course Automall in the southern Chinese city of  Guangzhou  had
closed, the municipal government announced that to rein in
congestion and air pollution, it would cap the number of new
 vehicle registrations  at about half of last year’s total and
suspend new registrations for July -- effective midnight. Caught
by surprise, dealerships recalled their staff and stayed open
until the next morning selling to buyers packing the mall the
size of four soccer fields.  “June 30 was the first time in Guangzhou’s history the
mall’s dealers ever worked through the night,” the 28-year-old
Chen said as he looked around the almost-deserted dealership
where he sells BMWs. “Those three to four hours of mad,
frenzied buying are now over,” he said, noting that sales were
considered to have beat the deadline as long as payment was
received by midnight, even if the paperwork stretched into the
wee hours. “It’s been very quiet since.”  Guangzhou’s move follows similar restrictions in Beijing
and Shanghai, illustrating how major Chinese cities are
increasingly resorting to quotas to curb vehicle emissions and
ease traffic congestion.  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  predicts
that will slow auto sales, which could threaten carmakers such
as  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  that depend on growth in
the world’s largest vehicle market to counter declining demand
in  Europe .  More Controls  “The new car restrictions in Guangzhou re-confirmed this
trend of more controls,” Ole Hui and Jeremy Yeo, auto analysts
at Mizuho in  Hong Kong , wrote in a July 3 report. “We think
that more cities will follow suit as many cities are already
overly polluted and congested.”  China , the biggest producer of  carbon emissions , is home to
16 of the world’s 20 most polluted cities, according to the
 World Bank . Vehicle emissions account for more than a fifth of
the most harmful particulates in Beijing, according to the
city’s economic planning agency.  In Guangzhou, the average vehicle speed has dropped to
about 20 kilometers per hour (12 mph) and is expected to slow
further next year, the government says. There were a total of
2.41 million vehicles in the city at the end of May, more than
triple the number of available parking spaces. That spurred the
city to make its June 30 announcement that just 120,000 new
license plates will be issued in the 12 months from July 1.  Smaller Cities  “Even if further large cities in China do introduce car
license controls, we don’t expect it to affect the growth
potential over many years to come,” Andreas Hoffbauer, a VW
spokesman in Beijing, said in an e-mailed response. “Second-and
third-tier cities will make the largest contribution to growth
in the Chinese auto market.”  GM,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  declined to
comment on government policies. Honda Motor Co., Guangzhou
Automobile Group Co., and the Guangzhou government didn’t
respond to e-mailed requests for comment.  Despite Guangzhou’s controls, the central government won’t
allow too many cities to impose limits on vehicle ownership
because maintaining a stable economy is a priority, predicted
Cao He, analyst with China Minzu Securities Co. in Beijing.  “If too many cities follow suit, it will surely damp
vehicle sales and economic growth,” he said.  Slowing Demand  Nationwide vehicle demand has already slowed this year as
economic growth has flagged and fuel prices have jumped.
Passenger-vehicle deliveries increased 5.5 percent in the first
five months, according to the state-backed China Association of
Automobile Manufacturers.  The latest curbs are a further blow for dealerships, where
average inventory bloated to more than two months of sales by
the end of May, a glut that the China Automobile Dealers
Association has said is unsustainable.  For Kobe Wu, marketing manager at a brightly lit and
bannered  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  dealership in Guangzhou’s Tianhe
district, the policy means auto distributors will have to focus
on improving  customer service  to earn a slice of diminishing
business.  “This policy will hit the  auto industry  hard,” said the
27-year-old Wu, who together with his colleagues sold more than
50 cars on the night of June 30. ‘It will force dealers to
change the way they do business.”  The abrupt way the Guangzhou government introduced the new
rules also left consumers miffed. Vivian Xie, a 29-year-old
English teacher who had planned to buy a Honda Accord this month,
was too late in hearing about the restrictions.  “We joke now that in Guangzhou you can buy almost
nothing,” Xie said. “Property prices are so high people can’t
afford apartments and now even if you wanted to get a car, you
can’t get one.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in  Shanghai  at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  