-- North Korean Economy Rebounds on Farm Output, South Says
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-07-08T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/north-korean-economy-rebounded-as-farm-output-grew-south-says.html
North Korea ’s economy rebounded last
year on a recovery in agriculture, bolstering Kim Jong Un after
he succeeded his father to lead the nation where a past famine
killed an estimated 3 million people.  Gross domestic product in the communist nation increased
0.8 percent in 2011 after a 0.5 percent decline in 2010,
according to an estimate published by the  Bank of Korea  in  Seoul .
The nation’s economy has contracted during four of the last six
years, the bank’s data show.  “The manufacturing sector declined, but the agricultural
industry enjoyed better weather and more use of fertilizer,”
the Bank of Korea said in an e-mailed statement.  North Korea  is projected to keep growing under the new
leader as its economic ties with  China  and  Russia  develop.  “Mineral exports to China and dollars brought in by North
Korean workers sent to China and Russia would have driven the
country’s GDP growth,” said Koh Yu Hwan, a professor of North
Korean studies at  Dongguk University  in Seoul. “North Korea is
expected to be economically stronger under Kim Jong Un as it
continues to increase transactions with its allies.”  Kim Jong Un, who took power in December, oversaw the
launching of a long-range rocket on April 13 that deepened the
North Korea’s isolation. The U.S. canceled a February deal for
240,000 metric tons of food aid in exchange for a halt on
nuclear weapons and missile tests, and the  United Nations
Security Council  also widened existing sanctions.  ‘Turn in Agriculture’  Kim Jong Un has waged a nationwide campaign to “bring
about a turn in agriculture” and increase crop yields,
according to a June 7 report carried by the official Korean
Central News Agency. North Korea’s agriculture and fisheries
sector expanded 5.3 percent in 2011 while manufacturing fell 3
percent, according to the BOK report.  North Korea’s nominal GDP totaled 32 trillion won ($28
billion) in 2011, compared with  South Korea ’s 1,237 trillion won,
the BOK said. North Korea’s per capita income was 1.33 million
won while South Korea’s was 25 million won, according to its
estimates.  After adjusting for inflation, North Korea’s economy
remained smaller at the end of 2011 than it had been in 2008,
according to the  Bank of Korea .  North Korea doesn’t release official economic data. South
Korea’s central bank releases an annual estimate of North
Korea’s economic growth, based on information from the  National
Intelligence Service  and other related organizations.  Food Insecurity  Some 16 million of North Korea’s 24 million people suffer
from chronic food insecurity, high malnutrition rates and deep-
rooted economic problems, Jerome Sauvage, United Nations
resident coordinator in Pyongyang, said in a June 12  statement .
The cereal deficit for last year was estimated at 739,000 metric
tons, according to Sauvage.  The estimated death toll from years of famine during the
late 1990s, the worst in the North’s history, ranges from 1 to 3
million people, out of an estimated population of around 22
million at that time, according to Rajiv Biswas, Asia-Pacific
Chief Economist at IHS Global Insight.  North  Korea ’s population rose to 24.3 million last year
from 24.2 million in 2010, about half of South Korea’s. Inter-
Korean trade fell 10.4 percent from a year earlier to $1.7
billion last year, South Korea’s central bank said.  Exports, except for shipments to South Korea, rose 84.2
percent to $2.8 billion last year, driven by minerals, base
metals, and textiles, BOK said. Imports rose 32.6 percent to
$3.5 billion in 2011, according to the central bank report.  China, North Korea’s closest ally, is also its largest
trading partner. North Korea’s total foreign trade grew 51
percent last year, boosted by rising mineral exports to China to
secure foreign currency for funding events such as  centenary
celebration of state founder  Kim Il Sung ’s birth, the report
said.  Agriculture and fisheries account for 23 percent of North
Korea’s economy, compared with 2.7 percent for South Korea,
according to the report. Manufacturing represents 22 percent of
the North’s GDP, while it amounts to 31 percent in South Korea,
according to the central bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  