-- Norway Oil Industry Group Says Talks Fail to End Strike
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g   a n d   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-07-08T10:00:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/norway-oil-industry-group-says-talks-fail-to-end-strike.html
Norway’s oil  strike continued for a
15th day after talks supervised by a state mediator failed to
reach a compromise that would prevent the dispute from
escalating to include all of the country’s offshore oil and gas
production.  “There are no new talks planned and we don’t know where we
will go from here,” Kristin Bremer Nebben, a spokeswoman for
the Norwegian Oil Industry Association, which represents
employers including  Statoil ASA (STL) ,  BP Plc (BP/)  and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,
said in a phone interview today.  The association, known as OLF, and labor unions met
yesterday at 5 p.m. in Oslo after Norway’s government encouraged
new talks in an attempt to end a strike that threatens to halt
output from western  Europe ’s largest crude exporter. After 13
hours, the two sides hadn’t reached a solution, OLF and the
unions  said  today.  The industry group has threatened to stop output from
midnight tomorrow in a dispute over pensions. The move is
intended to force the government to end the dispute as it did in
1997, 2000 and 2004, Teodor Sveen Nilsen, an analyst at  Swedbank
AB (SWEDA)  in Oslo, has said.  SAFE and Industri Energi, two unions representing the
workers, said the government shouldn’t order  compulsory
arbitration  to end the dispute.  Fair Outcome  “The employers must take responsibility for this
conflict,” Hilde-Marit Rysst and Leif Sande, the chiefs of the
two unions, said in a joint statement today. “The most
appropriate and fair outcome is that the  oil companies  must
accept the consequences of their own stupidity when they
announce a full lockout.”  Norway’s Labor Ministry declined to say if the government
would force the groups to find a solution.  “As usual, the ministry follows the situation
continuously,” Morten Dagre, a spokesman for the ministry, said
by mobile phone today.  About 15 percent of  Norway ’s oil production and 7 percent
of the gas production is affected by the strike, costing the
government and companies 2.7 billion kroner ($440 million) in
the last l5 days, according to OLF. The strike is disrupting as
much as 250,000 barrels of oil output a day, according to
Statoil, Norway’s largest energy company.  Carl Petter Martinsen, the state mediator, said yesterday
during a break from the talks that two sides were far apart and
in a deadlock.  “The mediator found no basis for the submission of a
proposal because of the large gap that existed between the
parties,” Martinsen’s office said today in a statement.  The dispute, which began on June 24, is the first
industrywide strike by energy workers since 2004 and the
longest, according to the SAFE union.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net ;
Josiane Kremer in Brussels at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  