-- Norway Banks Under Pressure as Asset-Bubble Risks Swell
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-07-09T10:20:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/norway-banks-under-pressure-as-asset-bubble-risks-swell.html
Norway ’s Finance Minister Sigbjoern Johnsen is putting pressure on the country’s banks to rein in
mortgage lending to over-indebted households as the government
grapples with the growing threat of a property bubble.  Banks have “an obligation to say to people I think that by
taking a loan this size you might get water over your head,”
Johnsen said in an interview in Oslo. “Norwegian households
have never had such a high proportion of debt compared to their
net income, so that requires a keen eye and some concern.”  The country’s financial regulator and economists including
 Yale University ’s  Robert Shiller  have urged Norway’s government
to take seriously the threat of a full-blown housing bubble and
its disruptive potential.  Europe ’s second-largest oil and gas
exporter has watched property values soar even during the euro
area’s debt crisis, as borrowers lean on  near record-low
interest rates  and Europe’s lowest unemployment rate.  Norway’s housing market boom has seen property prices surge
almost 30 percent since 2008, while the country’s  household debt 
burden will surpass 200 percent of disposable incomes next year,
according to central bank estimates.  “It is important that one is aware of the fact that
interest rates will go up again at some stage,” Johnsen said.  The three-month Norwegian interbank offered rate was quoted
three basis points higher today at 2.29 percent, bringing the
spread to the equivalent euro-zone rate to the widest since Dec.
14, according to data available on Bloomberg. The krone gained
0.1 percent against the euro to 7.5087 as of 12:18 p.m.  The central bank has signaled it may start raising the main
deposit rate from its current 1.5 percent as early as December.  Supply Issue  DNB ASA (DNB) , Norway’s biggest bank, is “definitely” applying
the stricter lending guidelines recommended by the financial
regulator, spokesman Thomas Midteide said in March. DNB says
 mortgage rates  have also risen to track higher funding costs.  Aside from putting pressure on the banks, the government is
also exploring the option of raising the supply of housing to
ease pressure on prices.  “There is a rather huge gap between the supply and demand
of houses and flats,” Johnsen said. “It is this imbalance in
the supply of houses that needs to be addressed.”  The central bank, which cut rates over two meetings in
December and March to cool the krone’s appreciation and protect
exporters, has since signaled it is shifting its focus to the
domestic economy amid growing signs of overheating.  Bursting Bubbles  Norway’s Financial Supervisory Authority last year pushed
through guidelines for banks, urging them not to grant loans
that make up more than 85 percent of a property’s value.  Yet the stricter standards have so far failed to cool the
 property market  and prices rose an annual 7.7 percent in June to
a record, according to the Real Estate Brokers Association.  Against a backdrop of record private debt loads, banks
should warn home buyers of the “kind of burden” they face when
they take on mortgages, Johnsen said.  The central bank estimates average household debt burdens
will rise to 197 percent of disposable incomes already this
year. Household credit growth accelerated to an annual 7.1
percent in May, according to  Statistics Norway .  Today’s private debt levels compare with an average of
about 150 percent in the late 1980s, just before Norway’s
property bubble burst. That event triggered a slump of about 40
percent in  house prices  into the start of the following decade,
according to the FSA.  ‘Vulnerabilities’  According to Johnsen, “households’ ability to service
their loans is much better today than it was in the late 80s and
early 90s due to the lower  interest rates .”  Shiller, the co-creator of the S&P/Case-Shiller home-price
index who predicted the U.S. subprime mortgage collapse, in
January told Norway’s government to “start worrying now” about
the pressures in the housing market.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
has also warned that high household debt and elevated house
prices are “vulnerabilities that macro-prudential policy and
consumer protection should address.” The  Federal Reserve  of  San
Francisco  in a paper dated June 25 singled out Norway as an
example of a country that may be in the grip of a housing
bubble.  “The OECD has pointed out that we have a challenge in the
housing sector with the high degree of household indebtedness,”
Johnsen said. “To get this from different sources really
underlines that this is also a matter of concern for the
ministry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net ; 