-- Oil Rebounds From Biggest Drop in Two Weeks on Norwegian Strike
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2012-07-09T07:16:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/oil-trades-near-one-week-low-on-concern-slowdown-to-curb-demand.html
Oil rebounded in  New York  on
speculation the biggest drop in two weeks was excessive as
 Norway  faced a shutdown of its production platforms because of
an energy strike.  Futures advanced as much as 0.7 percent after falling 3.2
percent on July 6, the biggest decline since June 21. A planned
lockout of workers on Norwegian oil platforms will go ahead as
planned at midnight unless a solution is found today, according
to Bengt Eidem, a spokesman for the Norwegian Oil Industry
Association. Prices slid last week after a report showed the
U.S., the world’s biggest crude user, created fewer jobs than
estimated in June.  “I don’t think upward momentum will be that powerful or
sustained,”  Jarmo Kotilaine , the chief economist at Jeddah-
based  National Commercial Bank  who forecasts  Brent crude  will
trade in a range of $90 to $110 a barrel, said by telephone
yesterday. “Norway is an issue.”  West Texas Intermediate oil for August delivery climbed as
much as 60 cents to $85.05 a barrel in electronic trading on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange  and was at $84.98 at 3:11 p.m.
Singapore time. The contract slid $2.77 on July 6 to close at
$84.45, the lowest settlement since July 2. Prices are down 14
percent this year.  Brent crude for August gained 95 cents, or 1 percent, to
$99.14 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.
The European benchmark’s premium to WTI was at $14.16, from
$13.74 on July 6.  Technical Support  Oil in New York has technical support along the middle
Bollinger Band on the daily chart, at around $83.80 a barrel
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Futures halted
their decline July 6 near that indicator. Buy orders tend to be
clustered near chart-support levels.  Norway’s strike, which started June 24, is disrupting as
much as 250,000 barrels of oil output a day, according to
 Statoil ASA (STL) , the nation’s largest energy company. The lockout
would lead to a shutdown of all oil and gas production, Eidem
said by mobile phone today. Talks in Oslo supervised by a state
mediator failed yesterday. Norway is western Europe’s biggest
crude exporter.  Three Libyan oil ports resumed export operations after a
halt because of protests, according to the chairman of state-run
National Oil Corp. Demonstrators had occupied Ras Lanuf, Brega
and Es-Sider to call attention to their claims of economic and
political marginalization of the oil-rich eastern province of
Cyrenaica, cutting crude exports by about 300,000 barrels a day,
Nuri Berruien said yesterday in a phone interview from the
capital, Tripoli. The country’s output will return to 1.5
million barrels a day within 24 hours, he said.  Economic Slowdown  U.S. payrolls rose by 80,000 workers in June, compared with
a forecast of 100,000 in a Bloomberg News survey of economists,
Labor Department data on July 6 showed. The  International
Monetary Fund  will cut its world-growth estimate for this year,
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said the same day.  The economy in China, the second-biggest oil consumer,
faces “relatively large” downward pressure, Premier  Wen Jiabao 
said, according to the official Xinhua News Agency yesterday.
Japan’s machinery orders, an indicator of  capital spending , fell
14.8 percent in May from the previous month, the Cabinet Office
said in a report today. The decline is the biggest since
comparable data were made available in 2005.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  