-- Hollande Urged to Deliver Competitive Shock By Executives
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-07-09T11:04:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/hollande-urged-to-deliver-competitive-shock-by-french-executives.html
French President  Francois Hollande 
was urged by business leaders to give Europe’s second-largest
economy a ``competitiveness shock'' to pull it out of the morass.  As Hollande brings labor representatives and company
executives together today for a “social summit,” reducing the
cost of doing business in  France  has become the new corporate
mantra. Hollande is trying to rekindle an economy that had zero
growth in the first quarter and saw joblessness rise to a more
than 12-year high.  “We need to create a competitiveness shock,”  Louis Gallois , former chief executive officer of European Aeronautic,
Defence & Space Co., said on July 7 at a conference in Aix-en-
Provence, France, calling for cuts in taxes and social charges
of as much as 50 billion euros ($61 billion). “It has to be
quite massive.”  Hollande, who won office this year on campaign promises of
social justice and countering Europe’s sovereign debt crisis
with growth, is being forced to address corporate complaints
that  labor laws  are too restrictive, wage costs and social
charges too high and corporate taxes too steep. Alleviating
those concerns will mean striking a balance between keeping
deficit-reduction pledges and cutting business costs.  “It’s extremely complicated to do at a time when the
government is raising taxes to plug the deficit,” Gallois said.
“The room for maneuver is limited.”  Labor Costs  France has the euro area’s second-highest unit cost of
labor after  Belgium , according to an April 2012 Eurostat report.
The French figure of 34.20 euros an hour compares with  Germany ’s
30.10 euros,  Italy ’s 26.80 euros and 20.60 euros for  Spain .  Unit labor costs in France have increased by about 20
percent relative to Germany since the year 2000 as French
companies implemented the nation’s 35-hour work-week law imposed
by the government of Socialist Prime Minister Lionel Jospin,
according to economic think-tank Coe-Rexecode, a Paris-based
research firm. While  Nicolas Sarkozy , who held the presidency
for five years through this May, watered down the law in three
steps, the damage was already done, economists said.  Hollande’s pledge to cut the French  budget deficit  to 4.5
percent of gross domestic product this year and 3 percent next
year from 5.2 percent in 2011 is likely to limit how much he can
do to cut corporate taxes and charges.  At a three-day conference in Aix-en-Provence, ended
yesterday, executives and economists urged the government to act
quickly to make the labor market more flexible, improve training
and lower the cost of work relative to other countries.  Jobs Lost  Hollande’s challenge is to win support from unions for such
an agenda.  “There is room for a win-win agreement among social
partners,” Jean-Pierre Clamadieu, CEO of chemicals maker Solvay
SA, said in an interview. “The employment question and the
necessary flexibility so that companies can adapt should be
discussed. An important issue is to simplify proceedings to
reduce staff.”  Still, given the country’s unemployment rate of 10 percent
and “the backdrop of layoffs, it may not be on the government’s
agenda,” Clamadieu said.  Carmaker  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  is considering cutting between
8,000 and 10,000 jobs and drugmaker Sanofi is looking at
reducing staff by as many as 2,000, union officials say.  Air
France-KLM Group (AF)  has said it wants to reduce its payroll by more
than 5,000 in coming years.  Labor Code  France has lost more industrial jobs than any other
European nation in the past decade. Its employment rate, which
measures the proportion with jobs, is lower than Germany,
 Austria , the Netherlands and  Portugal , Coe-Rexecode Says.  Companies say one of the biggest obstacles to hiring is the
“Code du Travail,” a 3,200-page labor rulebook that decrees
everything from job classifications to leave for training to the
ability to fire.  In France people “still think that to preserve jobs, we
must make it hard to fire people, which is exactly the
opposite,” said Clara Gaymard, head of General Electric Co.’s
French unit.  France needs to help companies become more nimble, she
said.  “The two pillars that definitively need to be reformed are
the ability to react quickly to adjust to the world and demand,
whether up or down, and the ability to train employees so that
they can change” jobs or companies, Gaymard said.  Unlike Germany  Job losses are linked to a competitive decline over the
past decade that has shrunk corporate profit margins, caused
French companies to lose market share and ultimately led to a
ballooning of the trade deficit to a record 70 billion euros
last year.  France’s share of exports among the 17 euro nations has
fallen to 13 percent from about 16 percent in 2000, according to
Coe Rexecode. Germany and Spain’s portions have gained.  At the same time, the gross operating profit of non-
financial French companies has fallen by about 6.2 percent,
limiting their ability to fund investment without taking on
debt.  As a result France is struggling to grow in the face of
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis, while in Germany exports have
climbed and unemployment has dropped. French growth stalled in
the first quarter and the Bank of France estimates the economy
probably shrank in the second for the first time since 2009.  More Taxes  “The time has come to set France into motion,” Hollande
said today, opening the social summit in Paris. “There is no
time to lose. Competitiveness has a social significance. It’s a
factor in growth and employment.”  Meanwhile, the national auditor said this month that
Hollande needs to find more than 30 billion euros to meet his
deficit target next year. To the dismay of business leaders,
Hollande is narrowing the gap mostly through higher taxes.  “The most important issue today is to reduce taxes on
labor,”  Cie de Saint-Gobain  CEO Pierre-Andre de Chalendar said
in an interview. “I think there is a consensus on that,
including among a lot of people in the government. The first
measures that have been taken before the full plan aren’t going
in the right direction.”  Hollande has also pledged to drop Sarkozy’s so-called
Social value-added tax, which would have lowered employers’
labor charges while raising an equivalent amount through a
general  sales tax .  ‘Something Big’  Responding to the calls for action in Aix-en-Provence,
Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  indicated that Hollande’s
government hasn’t ruled out tax changes to ease the burden on
companies and that the meeting in Paris today will be a first
step in improving competitiveness.  “There is a massive competitiveness deficit and it has to
be addressed,” Moscovici said.  A key element is determining who bears the lion’s share of
the burden of social security, said Philippe Aghion, a Harvard
University professor who advised Hollande during the election
campaign and has since offered counsel to Prime Minister Jean- Marc Ayrault.  “Companies shouldn’t have to pay for social security and
by reducing this burden it would create a psychological effect
for business,” he said.  The government needs to address that issue of confidence
among business leaders, said Gallois.  “What we need are not little steps, but something big
that’s visible to companies,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Francois de Beaupuy at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ; 