-- Monti Criticizes ‘Inappropriate’ Nordic Remark on Euro
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-07-08T16:36:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/monti-criticizes-inappropriate-nordic-remark-on-euro-correct-.html
(Corrects second paragraph to remove a comment incorrectly
attributed to the Finnish finance minister.)  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
criticized an “inappropriate” declaration by a Nordic country
on the euro, saying it has contributed to driving up bond yields
in some countries.  Agence France Presse on July 6 incorrectly cited a report
in Finnish newspaper Kauppalehti about comments by  Finland ’s
Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen. AFP said Urpilainen had told
the newspaper the country would consider leaving the euro area
rather than paying the debts of other countries in the currency
bloc. Her aide Matti Hirvola told Bloomberg News on July 6 the
AFP report was false.  Finland is committed to membership in the euro area and
considers the euro beneficial, Hirvola said. Finland doesn’t
support increasing joint liability within the bloc, he said.  Refraining from referring to Finland directly, Monti said
that individual member states shouldn’t damage the credibility
of decisions made collectively at the European level.  “The increase in spread linked to several factors,
including the declaration, which I personally consider
inappropriate from such and such a Nordic state, that has the
effect of reducing the credibility that the European Council
decided unanimously,” he told journalists in Aix-en-Provence,
 France . “We don’t undo unilaterally what we laboriously put
together collectively.”  Monti also noted that Italy hasn’t received “one euro” in
aid from other European Union member states, while contributing
its share of support to bailouts of  Greece , Ireland and
 Portugal . French and German banks have benefited more from
support for the peripheral countries than Italian banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Aix at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  