-- More M&As As Apple to IBM Acquire: Israel Overnight
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2012-07-08T13:52:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/more-m-as-as-apple-to-ibm-acquire-israel-overnight.html
Israeli technology developers are
poised to lure global acquirers after  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  entered the market, said Shlomo Kramer, who co-founded the world’s second-largest security
networks maker.  Israel is a “clear target for mergers and acquisitions
because the quality of innovation is at par with the best areas
in the world,” Kramer, the chairman of Imperva Inc. who helped
found  Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. (CHKP) , said by phone on
July 6 from Tel Aviv. “Even when times are tough, Israel’s
technology is at the top of the list for major organizations
looking to spend on innovation.”  Israel is the second-biggest source of foreign listings on
the Nasdaq Stock Market behind China and technology developers
led gains on the  Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  this year,
with  Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX) ’s share price more than
doubling. The gauge was little changed last week and is up 0.9
percent this year. The TA-25 fell 0.6 percent at the close in
Tel Aviv today, bringing the drop for the year to 0.8 percent.  Mounting interest in Israeli technology has surfaced this
year as initial public offerings remain dormant and companies
seek quicker access to cash, Kramer said.  IBM said on Jan. 31 that it will buy New York-based
Worklight Inc., while Apple acquired Herzliya-based Anobit
Technologies Ltd. on Jan. 10. EMC Corp. purchased Herzliya,
Israel-based XtremeIO for $430 million in May.  Caesar Stone Sdot
Yam Ltd. (CSTE) , a maker of stone products, was the only company to
hold an initial public offering in  New York  this year.  Facebook, Intel Acquire  With 82 deals totaling $5.4 billion in 2012, Israel is the
No. 2 take-over target in the  Middle East  and Africa after
Egypt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Covidien Plc (COV)  bought Oridion Systems Ltd., the Israeli
medical-safety device maker, on July 3 for a cash payment of
$295 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Facebook Inc. (FB) , owner of the world’s largest social-
networking website, last month acquired Face.com, the Israeli
maker of technology that helps users tag photos and find images
online by distinguishing facial features.  Intel Corp. (INTC) , the largest semiconductor maker, bought
Israeli security company Insightix Ltd. for $5 million in cash
in February.  ‘Key Players’  “There are a lot of key players like Apple and Intel that
love the Israeli technology,” Alon Harnoy, head of mergers and
acquisitions at Shiboleth LLP, said in an interview at Bloomberg
headquarters in New York on June 27. “The trend of acquisitions
by the big tech names is going to continue as more companies try
to establish a presence there.”  Israel , whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to Switzerland’s, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq
Stock Market, the most of any country outside the U.S. after
China. The nation is also home to more startup companies per
capita than the U.S.  More than 100 companies globally, including at least 13
technology companies representing a total deal size of $1.17
billion, postponed or withdrew initial public offerings this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The average size
of those deals was about $100 million.  Caesar Stone, which had its initial share offering in New
York on March 21, has added 9 percent to $12 since the listing.  Mellanox Leads  Mellanox, based in Yokneam Elit, Israel, is the best
performing New York-traded Israeli stock this year with a gain
of 127 percent to $73.72. The Tel Aviv shares have surged 135
percent. They were down 3.9 percent today to 292 shekels, or the
equivalent of $73.99.  Perrigo (PRGO) , the largest U.S. over-the-counter drugmaker, fell
0.2 percent to $118.08 in New York on July 6, paring its five-
day advance to 0.1 percent. The Tel Aviv shares lost 1 percent
to 464 shekels, or $117.58.  The Allegan, Michigan-based drugmaker was downgraded to
equal weight from overweight at Morgan Stanley, according to a
July 6 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  