-- Most-Accurate Forecasters on Euro Clash With Options Sign
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-07-09T16:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/most-accurate-forecasters-see-euro-bottom-at-odds-with-options.html
The world’s most-accurate foreign-
exchange strategists say the worst is over for the euro this
year, putting them at odds with traders who see more pain as the
region’s economy shrinks and the sovereign debt crisis deepens.  Led by Wells Fargo & Co. and Westpac Banking Corp. -- which
correctly called the euro’s weakness last quarter -- the five
best firms as measured by Bloomberg expect  Europe ’s 17-nation
common currency to end the year at about $1.26, up from $1.2299
as of 12 p.m.  New York  time. That’s above the $1.24 median
estimate in a survey of 55 strategists by Bloomberg News.  After sliding in April and May, the euro’s drop slowed in
June against a basket of currencies tracked by Bloomberg as
European Union leaders approved measures making it easier for
 Spain  and  Italy  to obtain aid, setting the stage for greater
fiscal cooperation in a region where five nations have sought
bailouts. While strategists are optimistic, derivatives show
traders are about the most bearish ever on the euro versus the
dollar over the next 12 months compared with the next 90 days.  “We expect within the ebb and flow of the  European debt
crisis  that things will get better rather than worse this
year,” said  Nick Bennenbroek , the head of currency strategy in
New York at Wells Fargo. “Not only were the decisions that were
taken in June by European leaders positive, but we continue to
see supportive movements from the central bank as well.”  ‘Doomsday’ Avoided  Wells Fargo expects the euro to reach $1.26 next quarter
before easing back to $1.24 in six months. The bank, whose
currency calls had an average margin of error of 3.52 percent,
was the most accurate forecaster for the third consecutive
period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, topping runner-
up Westpac’s 3.55 percent.  The euro jumped 2.4 percent against the dollar in June, its
best month since October, before falling 3 percent last week to
$1.2291 and depreciating 3.1 percent versus the yen to 97.89.
Last quarter, the two most-accurate firms correctly said the
euro would slide as austerity-driven spending cuts from Spain to
Italy reignite debt turmoil and drag the region into a
recession.  “We do look for signs of stabilization -- it’s not a
doomsday scenario,” Emmanuel Ng, a Singapore-based economist
and currency strategist at Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp., said
July 5. OCBC, the third-best forecaster, with a 3.65 percent
margin of error, sees the euro rising to $1.26 by year-end, down
from a prediction of $1.35 in April.  “They are trying to untangle the mess, so that’s going to
forestall a drastic collapse in the euro,” he said.  EU Measures  Talks in Brussels ended on June 29 with EU leaders paving
the way for cash-strapped lenders to tap Europe’s bailout funds
directly once they establish a single banking supervisor. Until
now, they had to get aid through their governments, adding
pressure to already stretched national coffers.  The  European Central Bank  will play a role in the new
supervisory body, officials said. They also agreed to drop a
requirement that taxpayers get preferred creditor status on
emergency loans to Spanish banks. Other steps included agreeing
to use rescue funds to stabilize markets under some conditions.  For traders, the measures won’t be enough to keep Europe’s
economy from shrinking. Gross domestic product will contract 0.4
percent in 2012, after expanding 1.5 percent in 2011, according
to the median estimate of 30 economists in a Bloomberg survey.
Unemployment rose to a record 11.1 percent in May and economic
confidence  slumped  to the lowest level in more than 2 1/2 years
in June, reports on July 2 and June 28 showed.  ‘Persistent Inability’  One-year options show that the premium for puts, which
grant the right to sell the euro versus the dollar, over calls,
which confer the right to buy, is close to the highest relative
to three month contracts since Bloomberg began tracking the data
in 2003.  The gap between the so-called 25-delta risk reversal rates
reached 1.05 percentage points on a closing basis on June 29.
The difference between the two gauges has averaged less than 0.1
percentage point since 2003.  Risk reversals measure the difference between implied
volatility, or a gauge of price and demand, on similar puts and
calls. Traders pay a premium for puts when they expect the euro
to decline.  ‘Simple Story’  “Europe is a very simple story, it’s a story of dramatic
euro-zone underperformance and the persistent inability for
policy makers to get in front of the crisis,”  Richard Franulovich , a senior currency strategist at Westpac in New
York, said July 3. “It’s basically a risk aversion story for
the next six months. The dollar is relatively a better bet than
the euro or the dollar-bloc currencies.”  Europe won’t get the power to recapitalize banks directly
in time for the injection of as much as 100 billion euros ($123
billion) into Spain by mid-2013, a European official said on
July 6. Spain’s bank-aid program, to be endorsed by European
finance ministers this week, will channel the money via a
Spanish state agency, the official told reporters in Brussels on
condition of anonymity.  Westpac placed second in overall accuracy for a fourth
straight quarter. The Sydney-based bank forecasts the euro will
weaken to $1.20 in the next three months, and rise to $1.24 at
year-end.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a drop in the euro against the dollar
versus those on an advance -- so-called net  shorts  -- stood at
159,880 in the week through June 26, the most recent period for
which data are available from the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission in  Washington .  Lifetime Average  That compares with the record of 214,418 three weeks
earlier. A year ago, there were net bets on a gain in the euro.  For all the turmoil in Europe, the euro is still trading
above its lifetime average of $1.2086 and has only fallen below
that level on six trading days in the past six years. Since it
began trading at about $1.17 in January 1999, the euro has
ranged from 82.3 U.S. cents in 2000 to $1.6038 in 2008.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., whose 3.87 percent margin of error
made it the fourth-most accurate forecaster, sees the euro
ending 2012 at about $1.24 or $1.25, down from an April forecast
of $1.36, after moving “erratically in the $1.20s for the
balance of the year,” said John Normand, head of currency
strategy at the New York-based bank.  ‘Ample Liquidity’  Normand cited the agreement reached at the EU summit to use
the permanent bailout fund, the European Stability Mechanism, to
provide direct recapitalization to banks and moves to agree on a
single regulator as positive for the euro.  Rather than anything coming from Europe, Rabobank
International expects the euro to rally as the  Federal Reserve 
announces plans to print more dollars to buy bonds in an attempt
to stimulate the  U.S. economy . The firm, the No. 5 most accurate
forecaster, with a margin of error or 3.88 percent, sees the
euro climbing to $1.32 by year-end.  “While its ample liquidity will ensure that the dollar is
a safe haven in times of intense stress, it’s our view that on
any signs of stabilization in perceived risk, dollar longs will
be cut -- potentially sharply,”Christian Lawrence, a currency
strategist in  London  at Utrecht, Netherlands-based Rabobank,
said July 3.  The last time the Fed expanded its balance sheet,
purchasing $600 billion of Treasuries from November 2010 through
June 2011, the dollar weakened 4.2 percent against the euro.
Odds for more of that kind of stimulus increased last week after
a Labor Department report on July 6 showed that U.S. employers
added fewer workers in June than forecast.  Strategists were ranked according to the accuracy of their
forecasts for 13 currency pairs in each of six quarters through
June. To test long-term accuracy, Bloomberg Rankings added one
annual estimate, which was made at the end of June 2011 for the
end of June 2012.  Only firms with at least four forecasts for a particular
 currency pair  were ranked, and only those that qualified in at
least eight of 13 pairs were included in the ranking of best
overall forecaster. Thirty-four firms qualified.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  