-- Passport’s Burbank Hedges Slow Home Recovery: Mortgages
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-07-08T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/passport-s-burbank-hedges-slow-home-recovery-mortgages.html
John Burbank , the hedge-fund manager
who’s betting on a global recession, plans to follow rivals in
buying U.S. mortgage securities without government backing amid
increasing signs the housing market is recovering.  Burbank’s Passport Capital LLC will purchase non-agency
mortgages to hedge investments that may underperform if property
prices jump, said Jeff Kong, who’s leading the effort. Raphael Gonzalez, most recently  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s co-head of
trading for subprime mortgages, this month will join the San
Francisco-based firm, which oversees $3.4 billion.  Other funds that are raising money for non-agency bonds or
are already buying include Brevan Howard Asset Management LLP,
D.E. Shaw & Co., Cerberus Capital Management LP and Canyon
Partners LLC. They’re being lured to the $1.1 trillion market by
property prices that are stabilizing after the biggest real-
estate crash since the 1930s, projected yields that exceed
corporate debt even with record defaults priced in, and
expectations that  Europe ’s banks will sell to preserve capital.  “By adding a bigger credit component I have a portion
that’s long the recovery,” Kong, who oversees $200 million in
agency mortgage derivatives for Passport, said in a telephone
interview. “The high returns available in RMBS have made
mortgage strategies much more in vogue.”  Non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities lack
guarantees from government-supported  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac 
or U.S.-owned Ginnie Mae. The underlying loans range from so-
called subprime mortgages granted to borrowers with poor credit
to jumbo debt too large for taxpayers-backed programs.  Housing Rebound  Passport currently has home-loan investments that will
outperform if refinancing among taxpayer-backed debt remains
subdued, a trend that may continue if a worsening economy
prevents a robust housing recovery. Buying non-agency bonds
provides a hedge against a quick housing rebound that would
increase prices of properties seized in foreclosures and reduce
defaults.  New funds began jumping into the market as prices declined
in 2011 as Europe’s debt crisis roiled credit markets and the
New York  Federal Reserve  tried selling securities it assumed
during the 2008 bailout of insurer American International Group
Inc.  The move paid off this year when values soared as European
regulators sought to stem the region’s sovereign-debt crisis,
reducing the likelihood of banks selling assets and U.S.
economic growth stalling. The Fed has sold more than $20 billion
of the securities this year, underscoring demand.  Subprime Returns  Non-agency securities backed by subprime or second
mortgages issued during the market’s peak have returned more
than 15 percent this year, according to Barclays Plc index data,
as evidence grows of the housing recovery. The debt lost 5.5
percent last year, after gaining 26 percent in 2010.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities
dropped 1.9 percent in April from a year earlier, the smallest
decline since November 2010, after decreasing 2.6 percent in the
year ended March and 34 percent from the peak in 2006. Purchases
of new U.S. houses rose in May to a two-year high, the Commerce
Department said, as the Fed pushes borrowing costs to record
lows.  Subprime bonds, whose collapse in 2007 triggered the last
financial crisis, are yielding 8.5 percent including expected
losses for debt with projected average lives of seven years or
more, according to JPMorgan data. That compares with 7.8 percent
for high-yield company bonds before accounting for defaults,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  European Sales  While the U.S. housing market is close to bottoming, it
will take years for a full recovery, Kong said. European banks
trying to reduce leverage and adhere to new capital rules will
add to buying opportunities by selling U.S. non-agency debt,
Passport’s Kong said.  “These assets reside in many places, including sovereigns
or offshore banks, particularly German and French banks,” Kong
said. “One of the events that I’m preparing for is if they do
need to sell.”  Fourteen of the largest European banks held U.S.
residential-bond assets valued at as much as $55 billion at the
start of this year, representing a 21 percent drop from
mid-2011, according to an April report by Credit Suisse Group AG
analysts.  Burbank, 48, made $370 million for himself in 2007 betting
on a tumble in subprime mortgages. Now he’s extremely bearish on
global stocks because he expects the U.S. and much of the world
to fall into recession. The hedge-fund manager is bearish on
miners, financial and industrial companies and emerging-market
stocks, the latter because he believes European banks don’t have
the capital to lend to companies there.  European Banks  D.E. Shaw, the $26 billion New York-based investment firm
that uses computer models to pick trades, is planning a fund
called Alkali whose investments will include European bank loans
and residential mortgage-backed securities.  “We believe that a substantial portion of Alkali Fund’s
opportunity set will result from pressure on European banks to
reduce their leverage,” the firm said in a document dated April
2012 that was obtained by Bloomberg News. “We expect that a
deleveraging in Europe will occur both actively through asset
sales and passively through a reduction in origination of credit
and willingness to roll over debt as it matures.”  Motivated sellers of asset-backed securities will also
include U.S. banks shutting down proprietary-trading desks,
 Brevan Howard  said in a marketing document obtained by Bloomberg
News.  Proprietary Traders  Passport’s Gonzalez and John Angelica, a securitized-
products salesman, resigned from JPMorgan as the New York-based
bank and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  were cutting senior mortgage
traders and salesmen, people familiar with the matter said in
March. The two biggest U.S. banks were under pressure to cut
expenses as the asset-backed  securities market  declined and
faced stricter  capital requirements  on the investments.  Passport hired Kong in December 2010 to start the firm’s
mortgage strategy four years after Burbank’s bet on a tumble in
subprime home loans, a wager that lost about 20 percent that
year and then earned his fund 220 percent in 2007, he said in a
June interview. It was a contrarian call, he said. He bought
credit-default swaps that protected against losses in subprime-
mortgage bonds, and they paid off when foreclosures soared in
2007, Bloomberg Markets reported last June.  Kong spent 10 years at Don Brownstein’s Structured
Portfolio Management as manager of its $1 billion Structured
Servicing Holdings LP. At the  Stamford , Connecticut-based firm,
Kong primarily traded so-called interest-only slices of non-
agency mortgage bonds, whose returns are linked only to how fast
borrowers refinance or default because holders aren’t repaid any
principal.  Best Returns  The flagship fund returned 50 percent in the first 10
months of 2010, putting it at the top of the Bloomberg Markets
list of the 100 best-performing  hedge funds  managing $1 billion
or more. Kong’s fund at Passport rose 5 percent this year
through May, according to a person briefed on the returns.  Returns that are topping other hedge-fund strategies is one
reason why mangers are piling into the market, according to Rael Gorelick, co-founder and principal of $250 million  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based Gorelick Brothers Capital LLC, a dedicated
fund of mortgage hedge funds invested in 20 managers, including
those in non-agency and agency mortgage strategies, whole loans,
commercial mortgage-backed securities and asset-backed
securities.  “It’s the only thing making money,” Gorelick said in a
telephone interview on June 26. “The primary reason people are
buying is because of the returns. Capital will find the best
risk-adjusted reward. Talent will flow to best risk-adjusted
reward.”  Mortgage funds, including those focused on government-
backed debt, rose 10 percent on average this year through June,
compared with a 0.9 percent gain for hedge funds across all
strategies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net ; 