-- Philippines Tightens Rules to Stem Speculative Capital Inflows
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   M a x   E s t a y o
-- 2012-07-08T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/philippines-tightens-rules-to-stem-speculative-capital-inflows.html
The  Philippines  has tightened rules
on capital inflows by limiting where foreign funds can put their
money after its currency surged to the highest level since
before the global financial crisis of 2008.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas will prohibit foreign funds
from investing in its special deposit accounts, or SDAs,
Governor Amando Tetangco told reporters on July 7 at a
conference in Subic, north of  Manila . Policy makers will require
banks to certify that investments in SDAs are not sourced
directly or indirectly from non-residents, he added, without
saying when the rule will be implemented.  “While the SDA is principally a tool for managing excess
liquidity, it has also become a possible entry-point for foreign
monies desiring to participate in the price action in the peso-
dollar market,” Tetangco said. “Existing regulations do not
provide restrictions on non-resident investors in the SDA. It
has, therefore, attracted carry trades.”  Philippine  growth  was the fastest in  Southeast Asia  in the
first quarter as President  Benigno Aquino  increases state
spending to a record to shield the economy from a faltering
global recovery.  Standard & Poor’s  raised the nation’s debt
rating to the highest level since 2003 on July 5, citing its
easing fiscal vulnerability and strengthening external position,
and helping boost the peso’s gains to almost 5 percent this
year.  Stronger Growth  “The government and the BSP are aware of the ill-effects
of hot money inflows, so they are being prudent in addressing
the problem at this stage,” said Radhika Rao, an economist at
Forecast Pte in  Singapore . “They want to ensure that the peso
is in line with regional currencies to ensure trade
competitiveness. Piecemeal steps like these could be undertaken,
not rigid  capital controls .”  The peso, the best performer among  Asia ’s 11-most traded
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, climbed to 41.6 per dollar on
July 4, the highest level since April 2008. The currency has
made gains this year in contrast to peers including the Indian
rupee and the Indonesian rupiah.  Capital inflows are picking up as investors are attracted
by stronger growth conditions in the Philippines as well as its
improving credit position, Morgan Stanley currency strategists
Stewart Newnham and Yee Wai Chong wrote in a note July 5. The
currency is their top pick for 2012, and they estimate it will
appreciate to 40.75 to the dollar by the end of this year, and
to 39.5 by the end of 2013.  Complicating Policy  The peso fell on July 6 after the central bank pledged to
curb excessive volatility in the currency and said it was
considering measures to discourage speculative capital flows
from overseas.  Bangko Sentral may consider other tools to manage capital
flows as a sustained and large-scale easing in the U.S. and
 Europe  will drive funds to search for higher yields in  emerging
markets , Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo said July 7.  “At some point, a simple adjustment in policy rate may not
be enough,” Guinigundo said. “It has to be complemented or
supported” by other measures, as capital flows complicate
 monetary policy .  Policy tools include macroprudential measures, the reserve
requirement ratio and rediscounting facility, said Guinigundo.
Monetary policy remains appropriate as it is, he said. There is
no tightness in the Philippine monetary condition, he said,
citing economic growth and stable inflation.  Policy makers in other emerging markets are facing a
different challenge, as the real, ruble and rupee are among
developing-nation currencies weakening the most. The
depreciation of the rupee, which has lost about 20 percent in
the past 12 months, is “a challenge,”  Kaushik Basu ,  India ’s
chief economic advisor, said on July 7.  Stocks Surge  Bank  Indonesia ’s focus now is on keeping the rupiah stable,
Perry Warjiyo, director for economic and monetary-policy
research, said last week. The country’s currency has slipped
more than 9 percent in the past year.  The benchmark  Philippine stock exchange  index surged to a
record last week as foreign funds bought $1.79 billion more
shares than they sold this year, more than three times higher
compared with the same period in 2011.  Tetangco said in April the central bank was monitoring
inflows into the special accounts to prevent speculation,
including carry trades. In a carry trade, an investor makes
money by borrowing in a country with low  interest rates ,
converting the money to a currency where borrowing costs are
higher and lending the amount at that higher rate.  The central bank’s two-week and one-month special accounts,
which held 1.66 trillion pesos ($39.7 billion) as of  June 15 ,
pay more than the nation’s 91-day Treasury bills.  The one-month SDA yields 4.1875 percent while the three-
month Treasury bill yield averaged 2.174 percent at the last
sale in April.  The Philippines economy  expanded  6.4 percent in the first
quarter compared with a year earlier, the fastest pace since
2010, as Aquino aims to transform the $200 billion economy into
a manufacturing and services hub to compete with its neighbors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Max Estayo in Manila at 
 mestayo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  