-- Pinot Wins Tour de France Stage Eight as Wiggins Stays in Yellow
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-07-08T22:02:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/pinot-wins-tour-de-france-stage-eight-as-wiggins-stays-in-yellow.html
Thibaut Pinot won the eighth stage of
cycling’s Tour de  France  after taking the lead on yesterday’s
final climb. Bradley Wiggins retained the race leader’s yellow
jersey.  The 22-year-old Pinot, the youngest rider in the Tour,
finished the 157.5-kilometer (97.9-mile) route from Belfort to
Porrentruy 26 seconds ahead of a group including Britain’s
Wiggins and defending champion  Cadel Evans .  It was the first victory by a Frenchman in this year’s
Tour, the 99th edition of the race. The FDJ-BigMat rider moved
into the lead from Astana’s Fredrik Kessiakoff on the category
one Col de la Croix about 16 kilometers from the finish.  Team Sky’s Wiggins, the bookmakers’ race favorite, took the
yellow jersey from Fabian Cancellara of the RadioShack Team two
days ago.  Wiggins finished as part of a small group of riders
yesterday, maintaining a 10-second overall lead from Evans of
BMC Racing, with Vincenzo Nibali of Liquigas-Cannondale a
further six seconds back. Team Sky’s Christopher Froome, stage
winner on July 7, was also in the group and climbs to sixth
overall.  Nibali attacked on the descent of the Col de la Croix but
Wiggins responded and didn’t lose any time to the Italian. He
also saw off a challenge from Evans.  “I’m not surprised at anything in this Tour, you can’t
underestimate or try to predict anything,” Wiggins told
reporters. “It was enjoyable, just like being in a junior race
with everybody attacking. Cadel is Cadel, and again he was
always going to attack. That’s what he does, but I felt good and
was able to respond.”  Spain’s Olympic road race champion  Samuel Sanchez  of the
Euskaltel team broke a collarbone in a crash, which may prevent
him from defending the title later this month.  Today’s stage is an individual time trial, a 41.5-kilometer
ride from Arc-et-Senans to Besancon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 