-- Porsche Joins Bugatti to Spur VW Bonds Record: Corporate Finance
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 2012-07-09T09:19:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/porsche-joins-bugatti-to-spur-vw-bonds-record-corporate-finance.html
Volkswagen AG’s decision to spend
4.46 billion euros ($5.5 billion) of cash to complete its
acquisition of Porsche SE makes the automaker more creditworthy
in the eyes of investors, who pushed its bonds to record highs.  VW’s 1.25 billion euros of 2.75 percent notes due 2015 rose
to 104 cents on the euro, cutting the yield to 1.3 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Credit-default swaps
protecting the Wolfsburg, Germany-based company’s debt were the
most-traded of any corporate contracts globally in the week
through June 29 and fell the most compared with European auto
firms in the past month, according to CMA in  London .  “VW’s cash flows will likely be more stable in the future
because Porsche’s customers are wealthy people in general and
aren’t as impacted by economic downturns,” said Frank Hussing,
a Frankfurt-based credit analyst at Commerzbank AG. “VW’s group
business profile is already strong and it will become much
stronger due to the addition of another premium brand.”  Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  said he wants to
overtake General Motors Co. and Toyota Motor Corp. to become the
biggest carmaker by 2018 and values the Porsche business at 20
billion euros. VW, which said it held 19.1 billion of cash at
the end of March, also took on 2.5 billion euros of debt when it
bought the 50.1 percent of the iconic 911 sports car maker that
it didn’t already own.  Lamborghini, Bentley  VW, whose other luxury brands include Lamborghini, Bentley,
Bugatti and Audi, sidestepped a tax bill of more than 900
million euros by classifying the deal as a restructuring rather
than a takeover. Its symbolic payment of one VW share on top of
the purchase price allowed it to take advantage of the tax-
saving plan, which was approved by German authorities.  VW is  Europe’s largest carmaker , sitting behind  Toyota (7203)  and
GM in terms of deliveries of cars and trucks globally at the end
of the first quarter. It sold 2.16 million vehicles in the first
three months of the year, compared with 2.28 million for
Detroit-based GM and 2.49 million for  Japan ’s Toyota.  Porsche sold 30,231 cars in the period, an increase of 29
percent in the similar period a year earlier, according to its
first-quarter earnings  statement . Deliveries of its Panamera
sedan, which retails at about $94,000, jumped the most with a 29
percent advance.  “Together we are more capable than ever of becoming the
best auto company on the planet,” Winterkorn said July 5 when
he announced the deal.  Credit Ratings  VW is  rated  A3, the seventh-highest investment grade
ranking, by Moody’s Investors Service.  Fitch Ratings  and
 Standard & Poor’s  grade the company an equivalent A-.  Because of the cash payment for Porsche there’s been a
deterioration in VW’s leverage ratio, with adjusted net debt
compared with earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization rising to 0.7 times from 0.4 times before the
transaction, according to Moody’s. That’s still below the 1
times the ratings company wants VW to maintain if it’s going to
upgrade the ranking, Moody’s said in July 6 report.  “The consolidation of Porsche into VW group will enhance
VW’s share of revenues generated from premium cars,” said Falk Frey, a senior vice president at Moody’s. “It will enable VW to
eliminate current complex processes in place for working on
common projects and sharing common platforms.”  VW shares rose 12 percent this year, including a 4 percent
gain this month, data compiled by Bloomberg  show . The company
has a  market capitalization  of 58.7 billion euros.  Operating Profit  Operating profit for 2011 was a record 11.3 billion euros,
a 59 percent jump, and VW announced in April a 10 percent rise
in first-quarter operating profit to 3.21 billion euros from
2.91 billion euros a year earlier. Increased revenue and auto
deliveries offset higher development spending as profits beat
analysts’ forecasts.  The Porsche transaction “is great news for VW,”  Arndt Ellinghorst , an automotive analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG,
told clients in a note July 5.  VW was able to acquire the carmaker for an enterprise value
of about 11 billion euros when it should be worth at least 21
billion euros, based on an enterprise value-to-sales ratio of
1.5 times, Ellinghorst said.  “The premium segment will in future represent around half
of the operating profit of the Volkswagen group,” VW Chief
Financial Officer Hans Dieter Potsch said July 4.  As of July 6, investors demanded 102 basis points, or 1.02
percentage points, more than benchmark rates to hold VW’s bonds,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Automotive index shows.
That’s below the 148 basis-point average for the 276 securities
included in the measure, including notes of Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG, Daimler AG and Ford Motor Co.  Maturing Debt  The company has 5.25 billion euros of bonds maturing this
year, rising to more than 9 billion euros in 2013, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg. It has 53.5 billion euros of bonds
and loans due through to 2049.  Credit-default swaps protecting the company’s debt from
default for five years fell 7 percent since the start of June to
151 basis points, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The contracts
have declined 11 percent this year.  A decline signals improved perceptions of  credit quality . A
basis point on a swap protecting 10 million euros of debt from
default for five years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. The
contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Most Traded  CDS on Volkswagen were the most-traded corporate contracts
globally in the week through June 29, up from 615th place the
week before. It had the biggest increase in weekly trade volumes
among 1,000 entities tracked by the  Depository Trust & Clearing
Corp.  with swaps covering a daily average of $290 million last
week compared with $110 million over the past month.  Perceptions of Porsche’s creditworthiness have also
improved on speculation the company will use acquisition cash it
receives to fully repay 2 billion euros of bank debt and invest
in materials for the  auto industry , real estate and energy
trading. Its CDS were the world’s best-performing contracts last
week, falling by 37 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “There are a number of key areas where VW is expected to
step ahead of BMW and Daimler,” said Vanessa Cochrane, a
London-based automotive analyst at Mizuho International Plc in
London. “It’s definitely on track to becoming the world’s
leading car maker.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  