-- Queensland Backs Fortescue Challenge on Australia Tax
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-07-09T01:52:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/queensland-backs-fortescue-challenge-on-australia-tax.html
Australia ’s resource-rich Queensland
state said it will support  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) ’s bid to
sue the federal government in the country’s top court over a
plan to tax  iron ore  and coal company profits.  “We’ll certainly have a go at intervening in this case,”
Attorney General Jarrod Bleijie told Australian Broadcasting
Corp. radio today. While cases in the high court are difficult
to win, Queensland received legal advice that the Mineral
Resource and Rent Tax, implemented July 1, may be
unconstitutional as it discriminates between states, he said.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , who is meeting Queensland
Premier  Campbell Newman  in Brisbane today, needs revenue from
the tax as she bids to turn the budget to surplus by next year,
when she’s due to hold an election that polls show she’s on
course to lose. Her minority Labor government’s agenda has drawn
criticism from mining companies including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and
 Rio Tinto  Group and resistance from the leaders of the four
states out of six ruled by the Liberal-National opposition.  “There’s a stronger political game being played here than
a legal one,” Michael Adams, dean of law at the University of
Western Sydney, said in a phone interview today. “It’ll be very
hard for Queensland to show it’s been unfairly discriminated
against.” Adams said the legislation appears to have been
carefully crafted to withstand constitutional challenges and
seems to be “rock solid.”  The tax will reap about A$10.6 billion ($10.8 billion)
within three years from Fortescue, BHP, Rio Tinto and other
mining companies, according to Treasury estimates in October.  Swan’s Defense  The challenge “will try to stop the Gillard government
spreading the benefits of the mining boom to hundreds of
thousands of Queensland households and small businesses who
aren’t in the fast lane” of the nation’s economy, Treasurer
 Wayne Swan  said in an e-mailed statement today. He described the
state’s bid as “futile.”  Western Australian Premier  Colin Barnett  decided against
joining Fortescue’s challenge as it was unlikely to be
successful, Swan said.  Fortescue, the nation’s third-biggest iron-ore exporter, is
seeking a ruling declaring the tax invalid because it
discriminates between states, curtails their sovereignty and
restricts their ability to encourage mining, the Perth-based
company said in a court filing on June 22.  Newman, a former army lieutenant, lead his conservative
Liberal-National Party to victory in March elections after
pledging to cut the resource-rich state’s unemployment rate to 4
percent from 5.7 percent and restore its AAA credit rating.
Labor’s defeat left Gillard with allies governing in just the
two smallest of the nation’s six states.  Abbott’s Pledge  Tony Abbott , head of the opposition Liberal-National
coalition, has promised to scrap the mining tax if the Labor
government is defeated in the election, scheduled for the second
half of next year.  Gillard’s agenda, which includes a new tax on  carbon
emissions  that will help fund cash handouts to lower- and
middle-income voters, has prompted criticism by business leaders
ranging from BHP Chairman Jacques Nasser to Rio Tinto Chief
Executive Officer Tom Albanese to the Australian Chamber of
Commerce and Industry.  Labor’s primary vote fell 1 percentage point to 30 percent,
while support for Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition increased
2 points to 46 percent, according to a Newspoll published in the
Australian newspaper on June 25.  Miners in states with lower rates of royalties than other
states will have to pay more federal tax, Fortescue said in its
court filing last month. That would eliminate a state’s
competitive advantage, the company said.  ‘Illusory, Inefficacious’  The federal tax will “have the effect of rendering
illusory and inefficacious any determination by a state to
differentiate itself from other states or countries,” Fortescue
said.  The company plans to almost triple annual iron-ore output
from its Western Australian mines to 155 million metric tons by
June 2013.  Last year, the  High Court  struck down Gillard’s plan to
send illegal immigrants who arrive by boat to Malaysia.  Tobacco
companies  are challenging a law that would require cigarettes to
be sold in plain packages.  The case is between Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. and The
Commonwealth of Australia. S163/2012. High Court of Australia
(Sydney).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  