-- Trade Gap Probably Shrank on Cheaper Oil: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-07-08T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/trade-gap-probably-shrank-on-cheaper-oil-u-s-economy-preview.html
The  trade deficit  in the U.S.
probably narrowed in May as falling crude  oil prices  and
weakening demand helped trim the import bill, economists said
before a report this week.  The gap shrank to $48.5 billion from $50.1 billion in
April, according to the  median  forecast of 61 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey before a Commerce Department report due
July 11. Cheaper energy also helped push down wholesale prices
in June for a third consecutive month, another report may show.  A faltering global economy, which led central banks from
 Europe  to  China  to cut  interest rates  and announce more stimulus
on July 5, may also mean fewer purchases of American-made goods.
At the same time, a lack of U.S. hiring that helped prompt the
 Federal Reserve  to ease monetary policy last month may also
temper demand for imports.  “The stress lines in the global economy are going to hurt
exports,” said  Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at Moody’s
Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania . “U.S. demand is
soft. Fed policy makers are nervous.”  American employers added fewer workers to payrolls than
forecast in June and the jobless rate stayed at 8.2 percent as
the economic outlook dimmed, Labor Department figures showed
July 6. The 80,000 gain in employment followed a 77,000 increase
in May. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists
called for a 100,000 rise.  A tepid labor market helps explain why Americans are less
optimistic. A measure of sentiment from the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan was little changed in July at
73.5 after a June reading of 73.2 that was the lowest this year,
the Bloomberg survey median shows before the group’s preliminary
 index  on July 13.  Fed Program  The Fed last month expanded a program to extend the
maturities of assets on its balance sheet and said it stands
ready to take further action to put unemployed Americans back to
work. Minutes of the central bank’s two-day meeting, to be
released on July 11, may shed more light on its decision.  The outlook for exports remains dim. The  Bank of England ,
which announced July 5 that it would restart buying bonds two
months after stopping, said output will likely remain sluggish
after contracting in the past two quarters. The  European Central
Bank  the same day cut its main rate to a record low as sovereign
debt turmoil threatens to drive the 17-nation euro economy into
a recession.  Cooling overseas demand is hurting American companies like
 Harley-Davidson Inc. (HOG)  A pickup in the value of the dollar against
the euro, which makes U.S.-made goods less attractive to
overseas buyers, is also among reasons the biggest U.S.
motorcycle maker said first quarter sales fell 1.1 percent.  Debt Crisis  “There is an impact with regards to the events and the
debt crisis and  consumer confidence  and potential recessionary
pressures in Europe on our business there,”  John Olin , chief
financial officer, said on a June 26 conference call. In
addition, “we are seeing the pressures of a devaluing
currency” as “ everything that we send to Europe is made
here” in the U.S., he said.  China, the world’s second-biggest economy, is also stepping
up efforts to reverse a slowdown in growth as Europe’s turmoil
limits exports and domestic property restrictions curb its
housing market. The Asian nation on July 5 reduced benchmark
interest rates for the second time in a month.  Slowing global demand has limited shares of equipment
makers. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite  Machinery Index (S15MACH) ,
which includes companies like  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and Deere & Co.,
dropped 11 percent in the two months ended June 29, while the
broader  S&P 500 (SPX)  index fell 2.6 percent.  Oil Retreats  Retreating oil prices probably kept a lid on the value of
U.S. imports and inflation in May and June.  Brent crude  traded
on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London  declined to $98.19
a barrel on July 6, down from a high this year of $126.22 on
March 13.  Cheaper energy expenses are flowing through the economy,
Labor Department figures may show. The import price index, due
on July 12, fell 1.8 percent after a 1 percent decline the prior
month, the Bloomberg survey projected. The  producer price  gauge,
to be released the next day, decreased 0.4 percent following a 1
percent drop, economists predicted.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  