-- Rangel Holds Margin Over Espaillat After Paper Ballot Count
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-07-09T15:19:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/rangel-holds-margin-over-espaillat-after-absentee-ballot-count.html
U.S. Representative Charles Rangel,
who has represented  New York  City’s Harlem neighborhood for more
than 41 years, held a 2 percentage-point lead over his top
challenger after the Board of Elections finished counting
machine and valid absentee and affidavit ballots.  Rangel had 18,942 votes to state Senator Adriano Espaillat’s 17,955, with the rest going to other candidates,
said Valerie Vazquez, a spokeswoman for the elections board. She
described Rangel’s lead in an e-mail as his “margin of
victory.”  Espaillat will decide today whether to concede and call off
a July 11 court hearing to challenge the results, Ibrahim Khan,
a campaign spokesman, said in an interview.  The latest unofficial tally, finished July 7 at about 7
p.m., showed Rangel had 987 more votes than Espaillat out of
42,726 cast, after officials counted about 2,000 paper absentee
and affidavit ballots, Vazquez said.  Democrats make up almost 97 percent of the district in
northern  Manhattan  and the Bronx, so winning the primary almost
ensures victory in the November general election.  Espaillat conceded defeat on Election Night June 26, and
Rangel declared victory after results showed Rangel ahead by
45.2 percent to 39.8 percent with 84 percent of polling places
unofficially counted. The  Associated Press , which reports the
vote count, called the race for Rangel.  Lead Narrowed  By June 30, with 40,810 votes counted on all machines,
Rangel’s lead had narrowed to 44 percent to 42 percent, or 802
votes, with the absentee and affidavit ballots not yet counted.
State law requires a full recount of machine and paper ballots
when the first- and second-place vote totals differ by 0.5
percentage points or less.  State Supreme Court Judge John W. Carter of the Bronx told
the Board of Elections last week that while it can certify a
winner, it can’t report the election results to the state to
make them official until approval by the court. Carter scheduled
a hearing for July 11.  Rangel, 82, once served as chairman of its tax-writing Ways
and Means Committee.  This was his first election since the House censured him in
December 2010 for 11 ethics violations including failure to
disclose and pay taxes on rental income from a house he owned in
the  Dominican Republic . Rangel campaigned in a court-redrawn
district that removed areas of the Upper West Side and added a
mostly-Latino section of the Bronx.  Espaillat, 57, sought to become the first Dominican-born
member of Congress. During the campaign, he said Rangel’s
censure had reduced the congressman’s effectiveness and made him
a “poster child for dysfunction in  Washington .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  