-- Renoir’s Squashy Bather Jostles Manet Roses in London
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2012-07-08T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/renoir-s-squashy-bather-jostles-manet-roses-in-london-review.html
If you’re the sort of person who
likes a little sugar with your syrup, then the new exhibition at
the  Royal Academy  in  London  is for you.  “From Paris: A Taste for Impressionism Paintings From the
Clark” is a mixed-bag selection of late 19th-century painting
from one U.S. museum.  The common factor is that everything in the bag is sweet,
and the overall flavor -- for my tooth at least -- is a little
sickly. It is, however, a fair reflection of the taste of Robert
Sterling Clark, who assembled the collection.  Clark (1877-1956) was one of the heirs to the Singer Sewing
Co. fortune and the founder, with his wife, of the  Sterling and
Francine Clark Art Institute  in Williamstown,  Massachusetts . All
you need to know about him as a collector is that Renoir was his
favorite painter (personally, I admit, I’m allergic).  “What a great master!” Clark wrote of the French artist
in 1939. As a painter, Clark believed, Renoir had “never been
equaled,” “as a colorist he has never been surpassed.” Clark
backed that judgment with cash. There are no fewer than 20
Renoirs in this exhibition.  You get an idea of what Renoir could do -- and perhaps why
Clark so loved him -- in the first room of “From Paris.” It’s
devoted to still-life pictures (the show is organized by themes)
and Renoir’s contribution is “Onions” (1881). An earthy
subject, you may think, yet Renoir manages to suggest that the
skins of these unglamorous vegetables are made from shiny satin.  Human Sofa  Renoir’s tendency to recreate the world to resemble glossy
furnishing fabric gets plenty of exposure later in the
exhibition. The naked body of “Blonde Bather” (1881) has been
transformed into a human-shaped sofa cushion, boneless and
squashy. On the other hand, the River Seine at a gritty Parisian
suburb, “Bridge at Chatou” (c.1875) seems more like something
edible: multicolored candy-floss perhaps.  Although this is billed as an array of Impressionists,
there is also a sprinkling of items by more academic painters,
including a “Seated Nude” (1884) by William-Adolphe
Bouguereau, the bete-noire of more radical painters.  Gauguin was interested to find some prints of Bouguereau’s
work on the wall of a brothel in Arles (next door to the one at
which  Van Gogh  delivered a severed portion of his ear). Gauguin
thought that was exactly where they belonged. I agree.  Quiet Degas  Still, I don’t want to be curmudgeonly. There are lots of
lovely things here, if you hunt for them. Near Renoir’s
“Onions” there’s a beautifully fresh Manet, “Moss Roses in a
Vase” (1882). Around the corner hangs a fine early “Self-
Portrait” (c. 1857-58) by Degas, looking exactly as  Lucian Freud  described him, “a bit guarded and grand, in a quiet
way.”  Scattered about there are good Pissarros, a magnificent
Monet of “The Cliffs at Etretat” (1885), even one nice Renoir,
of Monet’s first wife, from 1874.  All the same, there are no works on view that are at all
abrasive or disturbing (as Degas, for example, could definitely
be). This is an Edwardian millionaire’s dream: Everything is
upholstered and luxurious, nothing is remotely uncomfortable.  Normally, I would argue against the suggestion that
Impressionism is chocolate-box art. On the contrary, it was
revolutionary stuff, and Manet, Degas and Monet were all great
painters.  Many of the exhibits in “From Paris,” however, remind you
not so much of the paintings they put on the boxes, as what
there is inside. So, as I said, if you like your chocolate with
centers sweet and creamy, you’ll probably love this show.  “From Paris: A Taste for Impressionism Paintings From the
Clark” is at the  Royal Academy , London, through Sept. 23. The
show is supported by Edwards Wildman Palmer LLP and the
Annenberg Foundation.  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine,  Richard Vines 
on food and  Zinta Lundborg’s  interviews.  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford, in London, at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 