-- Rents Drop in U.A.E.’s Northern Emirates on Rules, Asteco Says
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2012-07-08T11:44:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/rents-drop-in-u-a-e-s-northern-emirates-on-rules-asteco-says.html
Rental rates in the northern
sheikhdoms of the  United Arab Emirates  declined in the second-
quarter after little change in the previous six months, Asteco
Property Management said in a report today.  Apartment rents in Sharjah dropped 6 percent on average in
the second-quarter because of increasing vacancy rates in some
areas and the introduction of stricter tenancy rules, the Dubai-
based company said. The decline follows a positive start to the
year, it said.  “New regulations regarding shared accommodation have been
introduced with tenants in Sharjah required to disclose their
salaries and confirm that people living together are family
members only,” said Elaine Jones, chief executive officer of
Asteco. “Subsequently, we have seen tenants who previously
shared accommodation, move independently to more affordable
smaller units, prompting a decline in rental rates.”  Buildings along Mina Road and in Al Yarmouk, which
commanded the highest rents, saw the biggest falls of 21 percent
and 12 percent respectively.  Annual villa rents were little changed with rates for
three-bedroom properties in Al Khan, Shargan and Al Quz in the
range of 70,000 ($19,000) to 77,500 dirhams, Asteco said.  Neighboring Ajman witnessed a slight downturn in the
second-quarter with studio and one-bedroom apartments’ rents
mostly falling. Sheikh Hamid Road and Corniche Road rents fell
by an average of 6 percent because of issues with utility
connections, according to the report.  Apartment rents in Umm Al Quwain and Fujairah didn’t change
much. Rates in Ras Al Khaimah dipped slightly in the first-
quarter and began to stabilize by the end of the second-quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 