-- Republicans Attack Obama on Economy After Employment Slows
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a   a n d   E l l i o t   B l a i r   S m i t h
-- 2012-07-08T16:19:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/republicans-attack-obama-on-economy-after-employment-slows-1-.html
Republicans on Sunday morning news
programs attacked President Barack Obama’s handling of the  U.S.
economy , saying recent reports suggest it’s weakening, while
Democratic defenders urged patience.  “There are almost a half a million more people unemployed
today than four years ago,” Republican National Committee
Chairman Reince Priebus said in a television interview on “Fox
News Sunday,” two days after the Labor Department reported the
worst quarter for corporate hiring in more than two years.
“Fire Obama and hire Romney. That’s the best stimulus program
for the country.”  As the November presidential election approaches and
voters’ views of Democrat Obama’s performance solidify, the
economy is lacking the job growth needed to bring down the
 unemployment rate . Joblessness, which held at 8.2 percent in
June, has exceeded 8 percent since February 2009, the longest
such stretch since monthly records began in 1948.  The Labor Department’s figures showed employers added
80,000 jobs last month, less than the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey, after a 77,000 increase in May. Payrolls
excluding government agencies rose 84,000 after a 105,000 gain
in May.  Obama, speaking July 6 at a campaign stop in Poland, Ohio,
said the new jobs were “a step in the right direction” though
the economy has to grow “even faster.” Republican presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney  called the jobs report “another kick in
the gut.”  Not Working  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, said the economy needs to be the focus of the
campaign. What Obama is doing “is not working” and
discouraging private businesses from boosting payrolls, he said.  Democratic defenders of the White House said today the
severity of the financial crisis that sent unemployment to 10
percent in 2009 will require more time for a full recovery.  “We faced the biggest job losses since the Great
depression,” Maryland Governor  Martin O’Malley , a Democrat,
said on ABC’s “This Week With  George Stephanopoulos .”  That’s
what  George W. Bush  and his failed policies left to us.”  Representative  Debbie Wasserman Schultz  of Florida, the
chairwoman of the  Democratic National Committee , said on “Fox
News Sunday” that the addition last month of more automobile
manufacturing jobs, important to industrial Midwest states such
as Ohio, was an encouraging sign of recovery.  Lengthy Recovery  “It takes a while to dig out of that hole,” said former
White House spokesman and Obama campaign aide  Robert Gibbs  on
CNN’s “ State of the Union ” program. Gibbs also attacked
Romney, accusing him of outsourcing U.S. jobs when he was at
Boston-based Bain Capital LLC, which he co-founded.  Romney’s experience “has been in owning companies that
were called ‘pioneers of outsourcing,’” Obama said July 5 while
campaigning in Maumee, Ohio. Polls show that linking Romney to
the outsourcing of U.S. jobs is an effective approach with
voters in the swing states of Ohio and Pennsylvania, where Obama
will end the trip.  Former Mississippi Governor  Haley Barbour  said on CBS’s
“Face the Nation” that the election will ultimately be a
referendum on Obama’s record.  “Obama’s economic policies and failure to make the economy
grow, create jobs, is going to be the first thing,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net ;
Elliot Blair Smith in Washington at 
 esmith29@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  