-- Russian Floods Kill 152 People in Krasnodar Region
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2012-07-08T15:56:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/russian-floods-kill-152-people-in-krasnodar-region.html
Flooding caused by heavy rains in
southern  Russia ’s Krasnodar region has killed 153 people in
Krymsk, Gelendzhik and Novorossiysk, according to state
television Rossiya 24.  More than 12,000 people and about 5,200 homes were affected
in the area on and near the Black Sea coast, the Emergency
Ministry said today in a  statement  on its website. Oil loading
at the port of Novorossiysk has resumed, according to OAO
Novorossiysk Commercial Sea Port.  Russian President  Vladimir Putin  declared a day of mourning
for tomorrow, according to a Kremlin statement. Four summer
camps for children will be evacuated, while the situation in
neighboring resorts will be monitored, Interfax said, citing
Deputy Prime Minister Olga Golodets.  Water rose seven meters (22 feet) in some places as rain-
swollen rivers including the Adagum burst their banks, according
to the Krasnodar administration’s  website . Putin, who traveled
to Krasnodar yesterday, authorized compensation of 2 million
rubles ($60,800) to each family that suffered a fatality, the
administration said on its website.  More Heavy Rains  Russia’s Emergency Ministry said more heavy rains are
expected tonight and tomorrow in the Krasnodar region, while
wind may reach 22 meters per second. There is a probability of
flooding the territories located at low altitude and houses,
transportation and agriculture plantings could suffer damage,
the ministry said. Putin yesterday rebuked  emergency services 
for not warning people properly about the severity of the
conditions.  Russia’s last comparable flood killed 104 people in the
Northern Caucasus region in 2002, according to  Nezavisimaya
Gazeta  newspaper, which described that disaster at the time as
the country’s worst flood in 100 years. The deadliest flood in
Russian history, in  St. Petersburg  in 1824, claimed 10,000
lives.  Railroad traffic to the Black Sea coast, disrupted because
of the flooding, resumed this morning, Russian Railways said in
a statement on its website today. Authorities will need three
more days to restore electricity in Krymsk, according to the RIA
Novosti news agency.  Russia’s Investigative Committee has opened a criminal
investigation into the Krasnodar flooding, it said on its
 website . A release of water from the nearby Neberdzhaevskoye
reservoir that day was routine and couldn’t have caused the
disaster, the committee said.  Another reason for tomorrow’s day of mourning is the death
of 14 religious pilgrims from northwest Russia in a bus crash in
 Ukraine , where they planned to see the Pochayiv monastery,
according to the Kremlin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  