-- S&P 500 Buy Ratings at High as Valuations Offset Profit
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2012-07-09T20:48:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/s-p-500-buy-ratings-at-high-as-valuations-offset-falling-profits.html
The same securities analysts warning
of the first decline in quarterly earnings since 2009 are also
more bullish than ever on U.S. stocks.  A total of 247 companies in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
have more buy ratings than sells and holds, a record in
Bloomberg data starting in 2000. Bullish recommendations have
been expanding even as Wall Street firms cut their forecast for
second-quarter net income in the U.S. to a decrease of 1.8
percent from a gain of 2 percent in April, more than 10,000
estimates compiled by Bloomberg show. Earnings season began
today with a report from  Alcoa Inc. (AA)   Bears say rising equity volatility, declining profits and
the approaching U.S. presidential election mean the 4.5 percent
 drop  in the S&P 500 since April will continue. Bulls say
analysts are advising clients to buy because earnings are still
on track to reach a record this year and the index is trading 16
percent below its average valuation since the 1950s.  “My picks aren’t based on one quarter,”  Howard Rubel , a
New York-based equity analyst at Jefferies & Co., said in a July
5 phone interview. “It’s not always captured in a headline how
many pieces of judgment one needs to incorporate into a stock
recommendation, and a quarterly earnings report is only one
item. You have to look at things over a period of time.”  Analyst Recommendations  Rubel, ranked by Bloomberg among the top five analysts in
more than half the companies he covers, lowered his profit
estimate for  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  last month while
maintaining a buy rating for the maker of Pratt & Whitney jet
engines. The Hartford, Connecticut-based company has 21 analysts
recommending clients purchase the shares, compared with four
holds and no sells, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Since
October, analysts have cut estimates for profit this year by 9.6
percent to $5.49 a share.  The last time earnings and share ratings diverged was the
third quarter of 2009, when the  S&P 500  was  six months  into a
rally that lifted it more than 100 percent through April 2012.
Analysts predicted a 23 percent drop in S&P 500 annual profit,
while 205 companies in the index had more buy ratings than sells
and holds. The June-to-August period that year was the index’s
last quarter of negative  earnings  growth.  Yair Reiner , a New York-based analyst at Oppenheimer & Co.
raised his rating on Boeing Co., the world’s largest maker of
cargo aircraft, to  outperform  from market perform on June 24,
while lowering his earnings forecast by 7 cents to $1.04 a share
for the second quarter. The stock is up 2.4 percent since he
increased his recommendation that day, beating the S&P 500.  Boeing Estimates  “Progress on production gave me a much higher level of
confidence in my year estimates and the company,” Reiner said
in a July 3 phone interview. “If they can provide incrementally
good news on the profit front, investors should be more than
willing to overlook blips in any one quarter.”  Boeing (BA)  delivered 150 aircraft in the three months through
June, positioning itself to meet a 2012 target, according to a
statement last week. Profit next year is  forecast  to rise 23
percent, followed by a 16 percent increase in 2014, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The  Chicago-based company  has 28
analysts telling clients to buy the shares versus three holds
and one sell and may report that second-quarter earnings fell 12
percent to $1.10 a share, analyst projections show.  Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum producer, reported second-
quarter earnings and revenue that beat analysts’ estimates after
an increase in orders from the auto and aerospace industries.
The New York-based company was the first in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  to release results. The S&P 500  fell  0.6
percent to 1,354.68 last week, after the biggest June rally
since 1999. It declined 0.2 percent to 1,352.46 today.  Recession Forecasts  Analysts are too bullish amid forecasts for a recession in
 Europe  and unemployment in the U.S. that has exceeded 8 percent
since February 2009, according to Wayne Lin at Legg Mason Inc.  S&P 500 companies  have a total of 5,898 buy ratings, 9.4
times the number of sells, data compiled by Bloomberg show. A
year ago, there were 8.4 buys for each sell. Total buy ratings
for the S&P 500 have outnumbered sells by a factor of 9 since
2000, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Less than half the time,
there have been more total buys than sells and holds.  “My expectation is that we are going to start to see that
weakness flow through to corporate earnings,” Lin, a  money
manager  at Baltimore-based Legg Mason, said in a July 3 phone
interview. His firm oversees $627 billion. “There’s a risk to
just jumping in just because stocks are cheap. They may be
cheaper later.”  Presidential Vote  The U.S. equity benchmark has gained an average of 0.1
percent in third quarters before a presidential vote since 1945,
the worst return of the year and down from an average increase
of 2.2 percent between April and June, according to S&P.  This quarter is the first since 2009 that analysts project
 earnings in the U.S.  equity gauge will contract after Europe’s
debt crisis and slowing growth in  China  reduced overseas demand,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. U.S. employers increased
payrolls by 80,000 workers last month and the  unemployment rate 
held at 8.2 percent, the Labor Department reported on July 6.  “The question will be, we know you had a soft quarter, how
does the rest of your year look?” Michael Vogelzang, who
oversees more than $2 billion as president and chief investment
officer at Boston Advisors LLC, said in a July 3 phone
interview. “We’ve seen disappointing earnings and stocks move
up, because they’ve been discounted. I think we are there.”  Profit Growth  Profit growth for S&P 500 companies is forecast to resume
in the second half of the year, boosting annual income to a
record $107.05 a share. Since the end of 2009, the index’s
median quarterly earnings growth has been 25 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.       Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold
Inc. (FCX) , the world’s largest publicly traded copper producer, may
say  profit  shrank 40 percent during the second quarter, based on
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That would be the
first drop since 2009 for the April-to-June period. The Phoenix-
based company has 22 buy ratings versus three holds and no
holds.  The economy in China, the world’s biggest consumer of
copper, has  slowed  for the past five quarters and prices of the
metal are down 21 percent during the past 12 months. Last week,
the People’s Bank of China cut its key  interest rate  for the
second time in a month and allowed banks to offer bigger
discounts on their own lending costs.  Broadcom, Mattel  More than 35 analysts recommend  buying   Broadcom Corp. (BRCM)  even
as estimates show the maker of chips that help mobile devices
connect to the Internet will have a 6.9 percent drop in earnings
when it reports July 24. While that will be the first second-
quarter drop since 2009 and  profits  will also fall in the July-
to-September period, the fourth quarter will see a 23 percent
increase, according to projections. Nine analysts have hold or
sell ratings.  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) , owner of Warner Bros. studios, has more
than twice as many buy ratings as it does sells and holds, while
analysts  project  second-quarter net income will slump 9 percent.
 Mattel Inc. (MAT) , the world’s largest toymaker, will report a 23
percent decline on July 17, yet more analysts recommend owning
the company than selling it.  Equity  valuations  are cheap enough to account for weaker
profit growth, said Tim Holland of Tamro Capital Partners. The
S&P 500 trades at 13.7 times reported earnings, 16 percent below
the average since 1954, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Should
companies meet annual profit projections, the index would be
trading at a 21 percent discount to the historic mean.  “It’s not the start of a downward trend,” Holland,
portfolio manager at Tamro, which oversees $1.75 billion said in
a telephone interview from Alexandria, Virginia. “U.S. equities
are attractive, the economy seems to be in very good shape
relative to other markets. We are very constructive on U.S.
stocks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at   lthomasson@bloomberg.net . 