-- Samaras Clinches Confidence Vote as Euro Area Ministers Meet
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s ,   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   E l e n i   C h r e p a
-- 2012-07-09T12:13:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/samaras-clinches-confidence-vote-as-euro-area-ministers-meet.html
Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras
won a vote of confidence in his new government, setting the
stage for a showdown with the European Union over easing the
terms of its bailout.  Samaras received 179 votes in support, compared with 121
votes against, according to a tally in the Parliament in  Athens 
early today. Samaras’s government is backed by the socialist
Pasok and the Democratic Left parties, which gives him 179 seats
in the 300-seat chamber.  “The only path to avoid the crisis and an exit from the
euro is growth and investment,” Samaras said before the vote.
“ Europe  acknowledges that along with fiscal adjustment there
must be growth.”  The government will assess creditor countries’ appetite to
ease Greek bailout terms today when Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras attends his first meeting of euro counterparts in
Brussels. The coalition, formed after Samaras’s New Democracy
party narrowly beat anti-bailout party Syriza in a June 17
election, is hoping to renegotiate some of the austerity
measures in the second, 130 billion-euro ($160 billion) rescue
package as the country suffers a fifth year of recession.  Minister Resigns  Samaras was tested anew today when Deputy Labor Minister
Nikos Nikolopoulos, a member of the premier’s party, resigned,
saying he believed that “significant distortions” in labor and
pension issues needed to be immediately addressed in talks with
the so-called troika of creditors from the European Union,
 International Monetary Fund  and the  European Central Bank .
Nikolopoulos said he’ll continue to support the government as a
lawmaker.  Concessions such as those may be hard to wring from some EU
leaders, after the euro area and  IMF  pledged a total of 240
billion euros in aid for Greece, even as political instability
in Athens, which led to two national elections in six weeks,
sparked concern about the future of the 17-nation single
currency.  Greece has some leeway to shift the composition of taxes and
spending to meet its  deficit-reduction targets  without
renegotiating the targets themselves, a European official told
reporters in Brussels on July 6 on condition of anonymity.  Aid Tranche  A four-month policy making hiatus caused by the elections
means  Greece  can’t count on the next tranche of its aid
disbursement until it proves that the economic-overhaul strategy
is back on track, the official said.  Decisions on the next Greek aid payment aren’t likely until
August, the official said. Stournaras told lawmakers in his
first address to parliament that budget measures for this year
needed to be implemented, even if targets weren’t met due to the
greater than forecast recession, or else Greece will risk the
next loan payment from its creditors.  Samaras has pledged to put the nation’s economic reform
plan back on track, promising to ramp up the pace of state-asset
sales to boost investment and jobs and help finance an extension
to the fiscal adjustment plan. The government yesterday
completed the sale of four Airbus A340-300 aircraft, formerly
used by the country’s state-run airline, for $40.4 million, the
 Finance Ministry  said in an e-mailed statement.  Stocks Rise  Greek stocks rose today, buoyed by fresh assurances that
the government will jump-start the state-asset sales plan.  Opap
SA (OPAP) , Europe’s largest listed gambling company, gained 2.3 percent
to 5.27 euros at 2:30 p.m. in Athens, while  Public Power Corp (PPC) 
SA, the biggest electricity company, advanced 5.2 percent to
2.61 euros. The benchmark general index added 1.2 percent to
646.47.  “Each euro from the exploitation of state assets is one
euro less needed from fiscal measures which would further weigh
on the recession and the country’s social crisis,” Stournaras
said. He said priority would be given to six assets including
the country’s natural gas monopoly.  The government’s emphasis on state-asset sales led to a
clash with Syriza, the second-biggest party in Parliament, which
has said that negotiations with the troika are pointless. Leader
Alexis Tsipras warned prospective investors buying Greek state
assets that “they will lose their money.”  Samaras “spoke of a program that is missing its targets,”
Tsipras said. “And what is the logical conclusion of that?
Doesn’t the bailout going off course prove its complete
failure?”  Opinion Poll  The first opinion poll since the June 17 election showed
that while a majority of Greeks supported the coalition
government, they were split on whether it should stick to
implementing the terms of the bailout.  Of the 801 people surveyed, 57 percent said they supported
the coalition, compared with 36 percent who said it’s a negative
development, according to the Metron Analysis poll for Athens-
based Ependytis newspaper.  Almost one in two, or 48 percent, said Greece should
implement and work to improve terms agreed in return for the
bailout funds. The same number said the bailout should be
canceled as the policies have failed.  Unemployment in Greece has soared to a record amid a slump
deepened by wage and pension cuts and tax increases. Gross
domestic product contracted 6.5 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier. Pasok leader  Evangelos Venizelos  told
troika officials on July 7 that a new plan was needed as
forecasts for GDP this year were bound to be missed.  Bond Writedown  Venizelos, who negotiated the second bailout as finance
minister earlier this year, said a writedown of Greek  government
bonds  held by the ECB should be one of the steps to further ease
the debt burden.  Greece’s debt can be cut by 12 percentage points if the ECB
takes a “haircut” and by 25 percentage points with the
transfer of 50 billion euros of bank recapitalization funds to
the European Financial Stability Facility, Venizelos said in
Parliament on July 7.  Concerns over Greece’s debt will continue to dissuade the
inflow of private capital which is needed for growth, jobs and
investments, Kathimerini newspaper said, citing Pacific
Investment Management Co. Chief Executive Officer Mohamed El- Erian. Greece needs to further reduce its debt and markets
continue to be concerned over a Greek euro exit, the newspaper
reported.  Democratic Left leader Fotis Kouvelis said supporting the
government was Greece’s best chance of staying in the euro and
revamping its economy by negotiating with EU partners on some of
the terms.  ‘Negotiations’  “Some of those issues can be pursued now at the
negotiating table, some at a second stage,” he said.
“Negotiations won’t occur at one point in time, at one summit,
or at the first visit of the troika. It will be a continuous and
persistent process, with tough talks.”  Samaras’s government platform includes the closure or
merger of dozens of state agencies and reducing bureaucracy and
regulations to attract investment. The government vows to show
determination to crack down on corruption and fraud that
deprives the state of revenue.  “We don’t want to change the goals; we want to change
those things that are obstacles to our goals,” Samaras said on
July 6. “The recession has to end, not constantly be
reinforced.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
Eleni Chrepa in Athens at 
 echrepa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at   sfoxwell@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  