-- Sancerre to Rival Burgundy’s Best Whites: John Mariani
-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 2012-07-08T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/sancerre-to-rival-burgundy-s-best-whites-john-mariani.html
It’s easy to claim that  France ’s
finest dry white wines are its burgundies and Champagnes.  But when it comes to awarding third place I will take a
stand: Sancerre, the enchanting sauvignon blanc-based glory of
the Loire Valley deserves to take the bronze.  If that comes as a surprise to devotees of Alsatian
rieslings and Rhone Valley viogniers, I will argue my point
vigorously with you over a glass of each.  For me, good Sancerre (and there is a lot that isn’t) gives
more sheer happiness than the rest of those fine white
bottlings. Unlike them, it can be drunk with just about anything
shy of charcoal-grilled steak or lamb.  Sancerre’s brisk, vegetal and mineral flavors marry
impeccably with any seafood dish. With most appetizers, even
foie gras, it is a worthy complement. When it comes to pairing
with chicken, few wines can match it.  As an aperitif it perks up the appetite and may be carried
to the dinner table with ease.  This is certainly not true of sauvignon blancs from most
other parts of the world, especially in  New Zealand , where the
varietal is a major export. In  California  and  Oregon , examples
range so widely in style that it’s hard to say anything
definitive at all.  Affordable Price  Good Sancerre has the fruit most people love in a white
wine, enough acid to keep it bright and fresh, minerals to give
it complexity, and a price that’s affordable enough for just
about any size gathering.  Sancerre is a very large appellation in France’s Loire
Valley region, with considerable variation across vineyards and
terroirs.  Those around the town of Sancerre have the flintiest soil,
vineyards to the west produce more delicate wines, and those
farthest west make the richest wines.  Traditionally, Sancerre was vinified bone dry, buoyed by
its minerality and herbaceous flavors. However, thanks to global
warming, the wines have taken on more fruitiness from increased
sugars in the past decade.  Still, their alcohol by volume is rarely much above 13
percent.  I rounded up a passel of Sancerres and tasted them with
everything from a Cobb salad to beer-battered shrimp. Here are
my notes:  Domaine Fournier Sancerre “Cuvee Silex”  2008 ($40)  Claude Fournier is a 10th-generation winemaker, his wife
Eliane a 13th and with 150 acres of vineyards, tradition and
expertise show. Can Sancerre age well? This four-year old
vintage proves it can. While its elements are subtle, they add
up to a wine that is French sunshine in a glass, with beautiful
color and nose, and long lasting on the palate.  Domaine Fournier Pere & Fils Grande Cuvee “Vielles Vignes”
2008 ($27)  This “old vines” Sancerre shares the Cuvee Silex’s
richness and adds more. Fournier cools the must before
fermentation and lets it sit on the lees for half a day to
impart richness. It is in impeccable shape right now and makes
for a fine wine with creamy cheeses like Camembert and Brie.  Domaine Fournier Sancerre “Les Belles Vignes” 2010 ($20-$23)  Fourier’s bargain Sancerre, made from 15 to 20-year-old
vines, is a splendid mix of flinty minerals and lush fruit,
ideal for chicken dishes and wild salmon.  Pascal Jolivet Sancerre 2010 ($16-22)  For a winery only founded in 1987,  Pascal Jolivet  makes
enchanting, very versatile Sancerre from an ideal soil mixture
of 50 percent limestone, 30 percent chalky clay, and 20 percent
flint, all of which give it a fresh, spicy nose and green spring
flavors like new grass. It’s always sold at a very decent price,
too.  Jean-Paul Picard Sancerre 2010 ($20-$22)  Since the 17th century, the Picard family has made wines in
the Loire Valley. It continues to produce a limited amount of
wine of which the Sancerre is an elegant example, with light
ginger notes.  Baron de Ladoucette Sancerre “Comte Lafond” 2010 ($28-$36)  Long a champion of the modern style in the Loire, the
estate’s Sancerres are known for their well-knit spices and
acids, along with flowery bouquet and long finish at the back of
the palate. It is superb with shellfish.  Clos de la Poussie 2010 ($32)  If you like bone-dry wine of the old school, this is your
Sancerre. The vineyards were until recently in terrible shape,
when this vintage was produced, but now appear to be much
healthier. The wine’s only virtue was its crisp, citrusy acids.
Otherwise its dryness was merely bland.  Domaine Thomas et Fils Sancerre La Crele 2010 ($25)  The very pale color may fool you, yet this is a big, full-
fruited wine, made from old vines, with 13.5 percent alcohol.
It’s what they should be aiming for in New Zealand and
California, and if you like that style, try this for a lot more
finesse.  Foucher Lebrun Sancerre Le Mont 2010 ($15)  What a bargain for a bold, floral example of Sancerre from
a small producer, with a perfect balance of fruit and acid and a
refreshingly dry finish.  ( John Mariani  writes about wine for Muse, the arts and
culture section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food,  Martin
Gayford  on art and  Zinta Lundborg’s  interviews.  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 