-- Shanghai Port May Form Cruise-Line Venture to Secure Traffic
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-08T16:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/shanghai-port-may-form-cruise-line-venture-to-secure-traffic.html
Shanghai International Port (Group)
Co. (600018) , operator of the world’s busiest harbor, plans to start a
cruise line to pare reliance on overseas operators and secure
traffic at its passenger terminal.  Talks are currently on with cruise line operators to form a
venture, Henry Hwang, general manager of unit Shanghai Port
International Cruise Terminal Development Co., said in an
interview. An announcement could be made in the second half of
the year, he said without naming any potential partners.  “All cruise liners presently are foreign companies,”
Hwang said on July 5. “Their investments here are mobile. If
anything happens, be it political developments or weather
conditions, they could leave.”  Parent Shanghai International Port may hold about a 50
percent stake in the venture, Hwang said without disclosing
planned investments.  Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. (RCL)  and Costa
Cruises are the lines currently operating from its terminal, set
up at a cost of 1 billion  yuan  ($157 million), as rising incomes
in China spurred spending on tourism.  Shanghai Port’s terminal in the city center adjacent to the
tourist destination of the Bund can hold four passenger liners
of up to 70,000 tons each. A second facility, a joint venture
between the Shanghai Baoshan district government and China
Changjiang National Shipping (Group) Corp. is designed to take
larger passenger vessels of more than 70,000 tons.  Two Terminals  The city’s two terminals are expected to handle about
400,000 passengers this year, compared with 230,000 last year
when  travel demand  dropped because of  Japan ’s tsunami and
earthquake, Hwang said. As much as 95 percent of the travelers
passing through the terminals are Chinese nationals going to
 Hong Kong , Taiwan, Japan and  South Korea , he said.  Hwang said the terminal’s proximity to the Bund and
Lujiazui financial district may help boost revenue from hosting
special events to 50 percent of sales this year. Events such as
fashion shows by Cartier Ltd. contributed 30 percent of revenue
last year, he said. The operator is also looking to boost duty-
free sales.  Besides Shanghai, the other major cruise terminals in the
nation are in the cities of Tianjin, Xiamen and Sanya. Last
year,  cruise ships  made 142 voyages out of Chinese cities, a 50
percent gain over 2010, according to Beijing-based  China Cruise
& Yacht Industry Association . The terminals handled more than
half a million passengers in 2011, the group said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vipin V. Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net  