-- Sony’s ‘Spider-Man’ Tops Box Office With $65 Million in Sales
-- B y   K e l l y   B l e s s i n g   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-07-09T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/sony-s-spider-man-tops-box-office-with-65-million-in-sales.html
“The Amazing Spider-Man,”  Sony
Corp. (6758) ’s reboot of the super-hero film franchise, led the U.S.
and Canadian box office in its first weekend with $65 million in
ticket sales, building on a midweek debut.  “Spider-Man,” released on July 3 ahead of the U.S. Fourth
of July holiday, has taken in $140 million over six days,
researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said yesterday in an e-
mailed statement. The drug-war drama “Savages” opened fourth
with $16.2 million for  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  Universal Pictures .  “The Amazing Spider-Man” revives a franchise that took in
$2.55 billion in worldwide ticket sales from three pictures,
according to researcher Box Office Mojo. Sony increased its
estimate for the six-day span by $15 million to a range of $135
million to $140 million after the movie brought in between $60
million and $65 million in its first two days.  “This is a solid performance especially for a reboot
coming less than five years after ‘Spider-Man 3,’ and the
reviews really made the difference,” said  Paul Dergarabedian ,
president of Hollywood.com Box-Office in a telephone interview.
“It was the perfect movie for the Fourth of July week.”  “The Amazing Spider-Man” was expected to generate $60
million in sales over the weekend, the estimate of researcher
BoxOffice.com.  ‘Ted’  This installment boasts a new cast, with U.K.-raised Andrew Garfield replacing Tobey Maguire in the title role. Garfield
played  Facebook Inc. (FB)  co-founder Eduardo Saverin in “The  Social
Network ” and is onstage as Biff Loman in “Death of a
Salesman” on Broadway.  Garfield portrays the orphaned  Peter Parker , nursing a
crush on high-school classmate Gwen Stacy while trying to
unravel the mystery behind his parents’ disappearance. A visit
to a high-tech research laboratory results in a spider bite that
endows him with extraordinary powers.  Emma Stone  is featured as Gwen.  Martin Sheen  and Sally
Field co-star as Peter’s Uncle Ben and Aunt May.  The film cost about $215 million to produce, according to
researcher Internet Movie Database. The movie, released a week
ago in some markets outside the U.S., has made $341.2 million
worldwide, according to Hollywood.com Box-Office.  Among returning movies, the R-rated comedy “Ted,”
featuring a foul-mouthed teddy bear, fell to second place from
first with $32.6 million in receipts. The movie, starring  Mark Wahlberg  and  Mila Kunis , has taken in $120.2 million to date for
Universal.  ‘Savages’  Pixar’s “Brave,” the 13th film from the  Walt Disney Co (DIS) .-
owned studio, remained in third place with sales of $20.2
million. The movie has generated $175 million in three weeks.  “Savages,” the fourth-place film, was directed by  Oliver Stone . The drama focuses on two marijuana growers, Ben and Chon,
who come into conflict with a Mexican drug cartel when their
shared girlfriend, played by Blake Lively, is kidnapped.  John Travolta ,  Aaron Johnson  and Taylor Kitsch co-star.  “Magic Mike,” about the world of male strippers and
featuring Channing Tatum in the title role, dropped three spots
to fifth in its second weekend, generating $15.6 million in
sales for  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros.  “Katy Perry: Part of Me,” from  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s  Paramount
Pictures , made its debut in eighth place with $7.2 million in
receipts. The film chronicles the pop star’s life on and off
stage.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 28 percent to
$187.1 million from the year-ago period, Hollywood.com said.
Domestic film sales this year have risen 8 percent to $5.79
billion, with attendance up 11 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for July
6 and July 7 and estimates for yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Blessing in  New York  at 
 kblessing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo in  Los Angeles  at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  