-- South Korea’s Choi Holds On for First Major Win at U.S. Open
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-07-09T04:19:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/south-korea-s-choi-wins-u-s-women-s-open-golf-by-four-strokes.html
Na Yeon Choi withstood a final-round
triple-bogey and held on for a four-shot victory at golf’s U.S.
Women’s Open, her first success in a major championship.  Choi, 24, entered the final round with a six-shot lead and
had her advantage whittled to two strokes before making three
late birdies en route to a 1-over-par 73 and four-round total of
7 under at Blackwolf Run in Kohler,  Wisconsin .  It was the sixth LPGA win for Choi, who said she dreamt of
playing on the tour as a youth when she watched Se Ri Pak win
the 1998 U.S. Women’s Open, also at Blackwolf Run. Pak was among
the fellow South Korean players who showered Choi with champagne
on the 18th green after she clinched the victory.  “After the third round, I thought I can win this week,”
Choi said at a news conference. “Just do my best and keep the
feeling when I was nine years old. I really wish 14 years later
from now some junior golfer or some young Korean golfer says I
was watching on TV and how Na Yeon played really inspired me.”  Amy Yang of  South Korea  was the only other player to finish
below par, at 3 under.  Choi had shot a course-record 7-under 65 during the third
round to open a six-shot lead. The biggest final-day comeback
win in a U.S. Women’s Open is five shots by Annika Sorenstam in
1995 and Choi ensured that record remained intact as she had
three birdies in a six-hole stretch.  Golfers from South Korea have now won four of the past five
U.S. Opens and in five of the past eight years.  The victory takes Choi to No. 2 from No. 5 in the world
rankings.  Sandra Gal of  Germany  finished third at 1-over par.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  