-- Spain Braces for Renewed Austerity as Tax Take Hemorrhages
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-07-09T16:11:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/spain-braces-for-renewed-rajoy-austerity-as-tax-take-hemorrhages.html
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
may unveil a third austerity round within days as his six-month-
old government tries to avoid a second bailout amid hemorrhaging
tax receipts.  Rajoy said on July 2 the time has come to “press the
accelerator pedal” as he tries to tame bond yields. Government
officials have said they are considering raising taxes on gas
and products that have a reduced rate, such as food, hotels and
restaurants. Rajoy plans to announce an overhaul of public
administration this week, Maria Dolores de Cospedal, his deputy
in the ruling  People’s Party , said today.  Spain’s return to recession is undermining efforts to cut
the euro area’s third-largest budget deficit as tax receipts
shrivel. Ten-year bond yields climbed back above 7 percent today
as European finance ministers meet to discuss the worsening debt
crisis.  Spain  became the fourth euro-region country to seek a
bailout in June to shore up banks burdened with bad loans.  “The commission will make its proposal for a new path of
fiscal adjustment” for Spain at a meeting of euro-area finance
ministers tonight, Economy Minister Luis de Guindos told
reporters in Brussels. “We will analyze its implications and
explain the measures we are taking and that we will take.”  ‘Very Difficult’  The yield on Spain’s benchmark 10-year bond today climbed
back above the 7 percent threshold that prompted bailouts in
 Greece , Ireland and  Portugal . It was at 7.06 percent at 5:56
p.m. in Madrid, compared with 6.954 percent on July 6.  “I have my doubts because it is very difficult to boost
receipts amid austerity,” Antonio Javier Ramos Llanos, economy
professor at Madrid’s Universidad Pontificia Comillas, said in
an interview. “Citizens see they are paying more tax and public
services cost more. That doesn’t incite them to spend at all.”  Undermining efforts to rein in the deficit, receipts
dropped 1.5 percent during the first five months of the year as
higher levies on income, electricity and tobacco failed to
compensate for a 10 percent slump in value-added  tax revenue .
Spending rose 12 percent as the state bailed out regional
governments and interest payments surged 32 percent.  Wage Cuts  Rajoy’s Socialist predecessor,  Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero , saw tax income fall by 19 percent between 2007 and
2011 as the economy shrank, even as he added levies and scrapped
rebates.  An option for Rajoy is to give up on a tax rebate for
homeowners, months after reversing the Socialists’ decision to
scrap it. Tolls could also be introduced on roads and government
officials aren’t ruling out cutting public wages or subsidies
for the unemployed.  Cospedal declined to say whether the government would cut
benefits for pensioners and the unemployed. She said the
overhaul of public administration would address the
“unsustainable” 20 percent increase in the number of public
workers in the past decade and the fact Spain has more
municipalities than elsewhere in  Europe .  Since 2008, Spain has collected less tax than the
government forecast. Zapatero scrapped a tax rebate and raised
VAT and income tax for the richest, alongside cutting public
wages, benefits for parents and freezing pensions.  Rising Unemployment  “It will probably get worse,” said  Rafael Pampillon , head
of economic analysis at the Instituto Empresa business school in
Madrid. “I don’t see companies generating more profits or
families earning and spending more as unemployment grows and
salaries become lower.”  The government wants to generate 4.3 percent more tax
revenue this year than in 2011, or 167.8 billion euros ($206
billion). That compares with last year’s budget deficit of 95.5
billion euros and the 29 billion euros the country expects to
pay this year in debt costs. The plan hinges on an additional
12.3 billion euros from taxes on income, profits, tobacco and
legal procedures.  Still, the government predicts domestic demand, including
spending by public administrations, will drop 3.1 percent in
2012, more than four times last year’s pace. Spain’s
 unemployment  rate, the highest in the European Union, rose to
24.6 percent in May. More than half of Spanish youth are
jobless.  Higher Costs  The International Monetary Fund forecasts output will
shrink 1.8 percent this year. Exports, which the government is
relying on to spur the economy, dropped in April for the first
time since 2009.  Cash-strapped regions and town halls are now stepping up
austerity as they seek to cut their deficits in half this year.
In  Madrid , the price of metro tickets has jumped 29 percent.
Water prices are set to rise for the second time in six months
and students will pay more to go to university.  Regional budget chiefs meet in Madrid on July 12, and the
government has said it will call for deeper cuts at the
gathering. In some regions, the margin for additional savings is
“becoming small,” Cospedal said today.  Spain registered its first negative savings rate on record
in the first quarter as households’ income fell 1.8 percent, the
National Statistics Institute said July 4.  Tax Evasion  Increasing taxes may encourage tax evasion in Spain, which
already has the lowest tax-to-gross domestic product ratio in
the euro region, Pampillon said. Industry lobbies for businesses
from hotels to bakers have protested the VAT increase.  In a study released by Madrid’s Universidad Pontificia
Comillas on July 5, 78 percent of 220 companies interviewed said
tax rules are unstable and 73 percent said this hampers
investment decisions.  “The state’s haste to increase tax receipts is generating
uncertainty and that harms investment,” said Ramon Casero Barron, a law teacher at the university.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  