-- Special K for Depression Renews Hope in Hallucinogens
-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e ,   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2012-07-09T13:43:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/special-k-for-depression-renews-hope-in-hallucinogens.html
Donald says he thought he’d died
minutes after  ketamine , a popular club drug known as  Special K ,
was infused into his vein at a Sydney hospital in March.  “I couldn’t see anything except pure white,” recalled the
63-year-old depression sufferer, who declined to be identified
by his last name. “I thought, ‘oh well, I must have died.’”  His vision normalized within a couple of hours, he said. So
did his mood, giving Donald respite from the debilitating
 depression  that had defied a dozen antidepressants he’d taken
over decades.  The former academic’s experience is part of broader tests
to determine whether ketamine, a hallucinogen commonly used to
anesthetize horses, can offer a new avenue for relieving the low
mood and self-esteem and feelings of hopelessness that plague as
many as  121 million  people worldwide.  “This could really be a game-changer,” said James W.
Murrough, an assistant professor in the departments of
psychiatry and neuroscience at New York’s  Mount Sinai School of
Medicine , which has several ketamine studies under way. “There
is a real need for something that works quickly.”  Ketamine, used as an anesthetic during the  Vietnam War , was
deemed revolutionary when it was discovered in the early 1960s
just after  psilocybin , which gives “magic mushrooms” their
mind-altering potential. Research on  psychedelic  drugs was
curtailed after experimentation outside labs led to widespread
abuse, said Charles S. Grob, professor of psychiatry at the
 University of California ,  Los Angeles .  “The hallucinogens were really the cutting edge of
psychiatric research,” Grob said.  AstraZeneca, J&J  While ketamine has an accepted medical use as a veterinary
and human anesthetic, the drug has the potential for abuse,
which can lead to physical or psychological dependence,
according to the U.S.  Drug Enforcement Administration .  Now that doctors have a better grasp of how the brain
works, they’re realizing their colleagues in the 1950s and early
1960s were on to something. Pharmaceutical companies are
interested as well. London-based  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  and a unit of
New Brunswick, New Jersey-based  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  have drugs in
mid-stage patient studies designed to work in a similar way, but
with better results.  Animal tests show ketamine promotes the growth of brain
nerve-cells and their connections that are the cornerstones of
learning and memory. Scientists are trying to see if the
compound has the same dramatic effect in severely  depressed  and
suicidal people. The research has already shed new light on the
biological mechanisms of depression.  Avoiding Suicide  Ketamine may help patients who don’t respond to
conventional antidepressants, such as  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s Cymbalta
or H. Lundbeck A/S’s Lexapro, which don’t work on about a third
of those who try them, says Alana Simorellis, an analyst with
Decision Resources Inc. in Waltham, Massachusetts. It may also
benefit people who need  urgent relief  from suicidal tendencies,
so long as the drug is given under the supervision of doctors in
a hospital, she said.  Modern antidepressants typically target the serotonin and
noradrenaline brain receptor systems. While the drugs take two
to six weeks to work on  mood and self-esteem , they can improve
energy and motivation sooner, giving a suicidal patient greater
volition to end their lives, Grob said.  Dissociative Effects  “There is really no medical intervention for acute
suicidality, which is a medical and psychiatric emergency,”
said  Mount Sinai ’s Murrough, who is running a trial to
investigate the drug’s potential to prevent suicide. “It’s a
huge unmet need.”  Besides Sydney and New York, ketamine is being investigated
for depression at sites in  Boston , Houston and Miami, as well as
Changzhou, China; Grenoble, France; Geneva,  Switzerland ; and
Aberdeen,  Scotland , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Janssen Research & Development, a unit of J&J, is  beginning 
studies in the U.S. and  Europe  of a different molecular
structure of ketamine, as well as a  novel compound  targeting the
same mechanism of action in patients with depression.  “We’re really interested in ketamine because of some of
the earlier work done in academic medical centers and the
effectiveness that it’s shown,” said  Greg Panico , a spokesman.  Some rival drugmakers, including GlaxoSmithKline Plc, the
London-based maker of the Paxil and Wellbutrin depression
medications, have given up on research in the field.  Real Innovation  Designing medicines that modify the actions of large
molecules in the brain is hard, says Clare Stanford, professor
of experimental psychopharmacology at  University College London ,
and only real innovation will pay off.  “If you’re developing something new, it’s got to be really
new, otherwise it’s not worth developing,” Stanford said. “It
will be too expensive and you won’t be able to recoup the
cost.”  Already sales of existing drugs are falling. Global
antidepressant revenue will drop an estimated 24 percent to
$8.54 billion by 2020 as bestsellers such as  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s
Effexor and Lilly’s Cymbalta face generic competition, according
to Decision Resources. Sales of Lilly’s Prozac alone topped $2.6
billion a year before it lost U.S. patent protection in 2001.  Ketamine targets  brain receptors  activated by a transmitter
called glutamate that’s important for synapses -- the electrical
and chemical signaling neurons use to communicate. Their
activation in the hippocampus and the cerebral cortex -- areas
of the brain involved in memory, mood and cognition -- are
thought to be especially important in treating depression.  Glutamate Levels  Antidepressants including Prozac also cause changes in
synapses, though not as quickly as ketamine, said Murrough. It
may be speed that gives ketamine an advantage for depression,
which has been linked with alterations and abnormalities in
glutamate levels, he said.  “These effects seem to occur over weeks with standard
antidepressants and with ketamine, they occur rapidly,”
Murrough said. “What Prozac did in two to four weeks, ketamine
in a single dose was doing in one day” in experiments with
animal models, he said.  Brain images of depressed people suggest the condition may
be caused by atrophy in the hippocampus. Ketamine increases the
growth of new synapses, much like electroconvulsive therapy or
ECT, said Colleen Loo, a psychiatrist leading a study of the
drug at Sydney’s  Black Dog Institute .  Lobo’s Study  Donald, the patient who thought he’d died on ketamine, is
one of five people with treatment-resistant depression recruited
so far in Loo’s placebo-controlled study. She  wants 35 more  to
understand the drug’s effects on  blood pressure ,  heart rate , and
various psychiatric and neuropsychological measures. A second
trial will investigate how its impact could be sustained.  Donald says his mood improved for as long as two days after
receiving  ketamine . “On the days of the treatment, I felt quite
calm, relaxed and positive,” he said. “I was disappointed that
it didn’t have this wonderful, long-lasting effect, but there is
definitely something going on there.”  A positive mood response lasting as long as a few weeks has
been observed so far in trial participants, some of whom didn’t
respond to ECT, Loo said.  “The fact that some people who have failed ECT can respond
to ketamine is amazing,” she said. “It’s a paradigm shift.”  Mind-Distorting Drug  Ketamine, with a reputation as a mind-distorting club drug,
should be investigated with caution, said M. Margarita Behrens,
a scientist at the  Salk Institute  in La Jolla,  California . The
medicine, whose street name is a play on  Kellogg Co. (K) ’s  Special K
breakfast cereal , initially disinhibits brain circuitry, causing
over excitement in response to a stimulus.  The effects are transient and disappear when the drug is
eliminated from the system. When taken repetitively, though,
ketamine can change the way inhibitory neurons behave, she said.  It’s possible that ketamine’s antidepressant action derives
from this mechanism and that, by disinhibiting the brain, the
drug brings a depressive person into a normal state, but a
normal person into psychosis, Behrens said.  “If not used carefully we could end up curing depression
with schizophrenia,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Gale in Melbourne at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net ;
Makiko Kitamura in  London  at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Connolly in  Frankfurt  at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 