-- StarHub Rolls Out Faster Grid Amid Singapore IPhone Craze
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2012-07-09T09:28:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/starhub-rolls-out-4g-amid-singapore-iphone-craze-southeast-asia.html
StarHub Ltd. (STH) , Singapore’s second-
largest phone company, will roll out a faster network at key
business centers as more people use smartphones such as  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone to browse the Internet and watch videos.  Users will be able to get on the fourth-generation network
in the central business district, where major banks have
offices, and Changi Airport later this year as handset makers
start unveiling 4G handsets, Chief Executive Officer Neil Montefiore said in a July 6 interview. The cost to roll out
throughout Singapore in two years will be “marginal,”
supporting the company’s “stable” profitability, he said.  StarHub, competing with  Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. (ST) 
for mobile-phone and pay-TV customers in the city-state, will
also use a new fiber-optic grid to get clients in commercial
buildings in the suburbs, Montefiore said. Smartphones such as
the iPhone and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ’s Galaxy models, used to
access social media and stream videos, have increased demand for
capacity and prompted carriers across  Asia  to upgrade networks.  “The rollout of 4G network will enable StarHub to cross-
sell its content,” said Gregory Yap, an analyst at Maybank Kim
Eng Securities Pte, who rates the company a buy. “Mobile will
continue to provide steady  cash flow .”  Record High  StarHub shares rose 0.9 percent today, closing at record
high of S$3.52 while the benchmark Straits Times Index dropped
1.7 percent. StarHub extended the gains this year to  21 percent ,
outpacing bigger competitor SingTel’s 7.1 percent advance and
smaller competitor  M1 Ltd. (M1) ’s 1.2 percent increase. StarHub rose
11 percent last year and 22 percent in 2010.  Trading at 18 times its  estimated earnings , StarHub is the
most expensive phone company in the city-state. The company
offers investors a  dividend yield  of about 5.7 percent, better
than the 3.7 percent average for the 30 companies on the Straits
Times Index.  “Definitely it’s the most expensive phone carrier in
 Singapore , but I’ve had a  buy rating  for so long because I was
looking at its capacity to pay more dividend,” said Maybank Kim
Eng’s Yap. Five of 23 analysts tracking StarHub have a buy
rating on the stock, with 15 recommending investors hold, and
the rest with a sell rating.  The next generation of wireless networks use a standard
called long-term evolution, or LTE, which offers higher up- and
download speeds and latency, or response time, that’s three
times quicker on average than previous technology.  Smartphone Users  About 65 percent of the existing post-paid mobile-phone
users in Singapore, and as many as 90 percent of new
subscribers, are smartphone users, according to DBS Vickers
Securities Pte, a local brokerage. Post-paid customers have a
contract with the company and pay their bills after usage.  Almost 95 percent of StarHub’s new customers are buying
smartphones, devices that can be used to surf the web, play and
record high-quality movies and photographs and create documents.
About 80 percent of the company’s 1.1 million post-paid
customers are already using smartphones, according to Jeannie Ong, a company spokeswoman, adding she has no details on Apple’s
plan to introduce a 4G-enabled iPhone.  In addition to handsets, usage of tablets such as Apple’s
iPad and Samsung’s Galaxy Tab are boosting the need for capacity
as people increasingly watch streaming video wirelessly.  Singapore Telecommunications, also known as SingTel, last
month unveiled its 4G services in the country, offering the
network through three handsets:  HTC Corp. (2498) ’s One XL,  LG
Electronics Inc. (066570) ’s Optimus LTE and Samsung’s Galaxy S2 LTE, it
said in a June 4  statement .  ‘Game Changer’  StarHub’s corporate-data services are available in about
1,100 office buildings in the business district, where the
company has built its own fiber-optic network. The new broadband
platform will allow the operator to get new clients in 20,000
commercial buildings across the island. Potential revenue from
these is about S$1 billion ($786 million), Montefiore said.  “It’s a game changer,” said Montefiore, 59. “The rollout
of the next generation broadband network to more buildings will
give us access to a market that’s still a monopoly.”  Most of StarHub’s corporate business comes from large
companies and the new network will allow it to tap small and
medium enterprises, Montefiore said.  “This is the most attractive pie for service providers,”
Sachin Mittal, an analyst at DBS Vickers, wrote in a note to
clients on July 4. “Each commercial connection commands much
higher average revenue per user than residential connections.”  35-Year Veteran  A veteran with more than 35 years of experience in the
telecommunications industry, Montefiore joined StarHub in
January 2010 as its CEO. Before that he was the head of M1, the
country’s No. 3 phone operator. Montefiore is a  permanent
resident  of Singapore, according to the company’s website, and
has lived in the city for 16 years.  Singapore phone companies have been offering 12-gigabyte
mobile-data subscriptions for S$10 to S$15 per month and this
has cannibalized their voice and text-messaging revenue, DBS
Vickers said.  Besides the corporate data services business, Montefiore
said he is optimistic mobile revenue will continue to grow by
bringing the company’s pay television content to handsets and
other devices. He may also introduce so-called tiered pricing
for wireless data, where customers pay for usage based on actual
consumption.  “We just need to get the revenue-growth tied to the data
usage,” Montefiore said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  