-- U.S. Heat Wave Relief Seen as Weather Front May Bring Storms
-- B y   D a n   H a r t
-- 2012-07-08T15:16:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/u-s-heat-wave-relief-seen-as-weather-front-may-bring-storms.html
U.S. residents from  Missouri  to
 Virginia , beset by a record-breaking heat wave, may see relief
tomorrow as a cold front brings more seasonal temperatures along
with some potentially severe thunderstorms.  The hot weather has set 2,438 high-temperature records
across the country for the 11 days ended yesterday, said Mark
Paquette, a meteorologist at AccuWeather.com Inc. He compared it
with a comparable heat wave in mid-July of 1988 in the mid-
Atlantic and Northeast in which 1,173 records were broken.  “The sheer scope of the records has been very
impressive,” said Paquette in a telephone interview yesterday.
Two hundred nine daily record highs were set Saturday, and 2,095
for the past seven days, AccuWeather meteorologist Eric Leister
said.  In the nation’s capital, the thermometer touched 95 degrees
Fahrenheit (35 Celsius) or more for 11 days, with a daily record
of 105 set in Washington yesterday, according to the  National
Weather Service . That’s one degree shy of the city’s all-time
high of 106, last set in August 1930. Tomorrow, the temperature
drops to 85 degrees.  New York City  is expected to be 86 degrees tomorrow, after
reaching a high of 97 yesterday, the hottest day this month.  Cities and towns in the Midwest will get a break too.  Both Carbondale,  Illinois , and  Kansas City , Missouri, hit
105 degrees yesterday. Across the state, in Cape Girardeau,
Missouri, it was 104. Paquette said temperatures will fall to
the high 80s and low 90s for all those cities tomorrow.  Thunderstorms  Paquette said the sheer breadth of the heat wave was due to
a drought that has plagued the Midwest. During a prolonged dry
spell, there is little soil moisture or cloud cover to blunt the
heat, he said.  The heat wave also has been blamed for the derailment on
July 6 of a  Washington  Metro train car after heat created a kink
in the tracks near the West Hyattsville station in  Maryland .
There may be delays today because of heat-related speed
restrictions, Metro said in an  alert . The same day, a US
Airways Group Inc. plane became stuck in a soft patch on the
runway while trying to push back from the gate at Washington’s
Reagan National Airport, the Washington Post reported.  Today’s forecast calls for strong thunderstorms in
Cincinnati; Louisville,  Kentucky ; Baltimore; Washington and
Richmond, Virginia as a cold front passes through.  Separately, the U.S. Energy Department reported 416,192
 homes and businesses  were without power as of July 6, the most
recent posting. Most of those lost power after a powerful storm
known as a derecho swept through the Midwest and mid-Atlantic
regions on June 29.  The  Associated Press  said the heat is being blamed
for more than 30 deaths nationwide. A 4-month-old girl died
yesterday after being trapped in a car in suburban
Indianapolis, where the high temperature yesterday was 105
degrees, the wire service reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  