-- U.S. Corn Growers Farming in Hell as Midwest Heat Spreads
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-07-09T20:19:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/u-s-corn-growers-farming-in-hell-as-heat-spreads-commodities.html
The worst U.S. drought since  Ronald
Reagan  was president is withering the world’s largest corn crop,
and the speed of the damage may spur the government to make a
record cut in its July estimate for domestic inventories.  Tumbling yields will combine with the greatest-ever global
demand to leave U.S. stockpiles on Sept. 1, 2013, at 1.216
billion bushels (30.89 million metric tons), according to the
average of 31 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That’s 35
percent below the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s June 12
forecast, implying the biggest  reduction  since at least 1973.
The USDA updates its harvest and inventory estimates July 11.  Crops on July 1 were in the worst condition since 1988, and
a Midwest heat wave last week set or tied 1,067 temperature
 records , government data show. Prices surged 37 percent in three
weeks, and Rabobank International said June 28 that corn may
rise 9.9 percent more by December to near a record $8 a bushel.
The gain is threatening to boost food costs the  United Nations 
says fell 15 percent from a record in February 2011 and feed
prices for meat producers including  Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD)   “The drought is much worse than last year and approaching
the 1988 disaster,” said John Cory, the chief executive officer
of Rochester, Indiana-based grain processor Prairie Mills
Products LLC. “There are crops that won’t make it. The dairy
and livestock industries are going to get hit very hard. People
are just beginning to realize the depth of the problem.”  Top Commodities  Corn rallied 18 percent in the month through July 6 on the
 Chicago  Board of Trade to $6.93, trailing only wheat among 24
commodities tracked by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index,
which rose 2 percent. The MSCI All-Country World Index of
equities advanced 4 percent, and the dollar gained 1.3 percent
against a basket of six currencies in the period. Treasuries
returned 0.5 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows. Corn
for December delivery in Chicago extended the rally today,
jumping 5.3 percent to settle at $7.30.  About 53 percent of the Midwest, where farmers harvested 60
percent of last year’s U.S. crop, had moderate to extreme
drought conditions as of July 3, the highest since the
government-funded U.S. Drought Monitor in Lincoln,  Nebraska ,
began tracking the data in 2000. In the seven days ended July 6,
temperatures in the region averaged as much as 15 degrees
Fahrenheit above normal. Soil moisture in  Illinois ,  Indiana ,
Ohio,  Missouri  and  Kentucky  is so low that it ranks in the 10th
percentile among all other years since 1895.  Fields are parched just as corn plants began to pollinate,
a critical period for determining kernel development and final
yields. About 48 percent of the crop in the U.S., the world’s
largest grower and exporter, was in good or excellent condition
as of July 1, the lowest for that date since 1988 and down from
77 percent on May 18, government data show.  Yield Losses  The USDA may cut its  production  forecast by 8.5 percent,
the biggest July reduction since a drought in 1988 led the
government to cut its estimate by 29 percent, a separate
Bloomberg survey of 14 analysts showed. Farmers probably will
collect 13.534 billion bushels, compared with the USDA’s June
forecast for a record 14.79 billion, based on the average of
estimates in the survey.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said July 2 that yields will reach
153.5 bushels an acre, below the USDA estimate for an all-time
high of 166.  “Corn yields were falling five bushels a day during the
past week” in the driest parts of the Midwest, said Fred Below,
a plant biologist at the  University of Illinois  in Urbana. “You
couldn’t choreograph worse weather conditions for pollination.
It’s like farming in hell.”  Record Crop  Even with the drought, U.S. production in 2012 is expected
to rise 9.5 percent from last year to a record after farmers
sowed the most acres since 1937, the survey showed. Higher
output would help boost inventories before next year’s harvest,
up from what analysts said will be a 16-year low on Sept. 1 of
837 million bushels.  Futures fell 2.2 percent on July 6, the most in two weeks,
after the USDA reported a 90 percent drop in  export sales  in the
week ended June 28. U.S. refiners curbed output of corn-based
 ethanol  last week to the lowest since September as gasoline
demand weakened, government data show.  Corn’s rally also may stall if Europe’s widening debt
crisis and a faltering global economy erode record demand for
the grain. The  International Monetary Fund  will reduce its
estimate for growth this year because of weakness in investment,
employment and manufacturing in Europe, the U.S., Brazil, India
and China, Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said July 6.  “The shrinking global economy is the elephant in the room
that no one wants to discuss as long as U.S. crops are under
siege,” said Dale Durcholz, the senior market analyst for
Bloomington, Illinois-based AgriVisor LLC. “Corn demand at $5
is much more robust than when it costs $7.”  Changing Expectations  Corn tumbled into a  bear market  in September and kept
dropping as farmers planted more crops. Robert Manly, the chief
financial officer at Smithfield Foods, the largest U.S. pork
producer, told analysts on a June 14  conference call  that hog-
raising costs would “begin to decline starting in the fall.”
Corn has surged 41 percent since then, reaching a nine-month
high today.  U.S. corn production may drop to 11 billion bushels, the
smallest crop in seven years, because the hot, dry weather
killed the pollen and rains now may be too late to reverse the
damage, according to Cory, the Indiana mill owner and a former
investment banker. Prices may reach $9 before demand slows, he
said.  World corn use rose to a record every year since 1997 as
the expanding economy boosted incomes and the consumption of
meat and dairy products from animals raised on the grain. The
USDA projected last month a 6.4 percent increase in global
demand to 923.39 million tons in the year that starts Sept. 1,
the biggest gain in six years. More U.S. output went to ethanol
production than livestock feed in 2011 for the first time ever.  Vulnerable Period  While the U.S. harvest is about two months away, the
drought reached plants at the most vulnerable period in their
growing cycle, said Nick Higgins, a London-based analyst at
Rabobank, predicting a 13.488 billion-bushel harvest.  Based on current soil moisture and June temperatures, the
drought is probably the worst since 1988, said Joel Widenor, a
vice president at the Commodity Weather Group in Bethesda,
 Maryland . The private forecaster said July 5 that corn output
this year will be 13.52 billion bushels, and that hot, dry
weather in the next two weeks may reduce yields further.  The drought may spark a rebound in global food prices this
month through October, halting a slide that sent costs in June
to the lowest level in 21 months,  Abdolreza Abbassian , an
economist in  Rome  at the United Nations’ Food & Agriculture
Organization, said July 5.  Base Ingredient  “Corn is key because of its widespread use as a base
ingredient in so many foods and for its use in feed for
livestock,” said  Stanley Crouch , who helps oversee $2 billion
of assets as chief investment officer at New York-based Aegis
Capital Corp. “We are at the tipping point.”  In May, retail prices of boneless hams, ground beef and
cheese in the U.S. were close to all-time highs set earlier this
year, while chicken breast jumped more than 12 percent during
the first five months of the year, government data show.  “When people look at rising prices for hamburger, butter,
eggs and other protein sources from higher corn costs, that’s
when more money ends up in the food basket,” said Minneapolis-
based  Michael Swanson , a senior agricultural economist at  Wells
Fargo & Co ., the biggest U.S. farm lender. “We were hoping for
a break, and we aren’t going to get it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  