-- Tucker Faces Libor Grilling With BOE Governor Race at Stake
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-07-09T14:20:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/tucker-faces-libor-grilling-as-boe-chief-race-hangs-in-balance.html
Bank of England Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  will testify today on the Libor scandal that cost
 Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s top three managers their jobs and cast doubt on
his prospects of succeeding his boss,  Mervyn King .  Tucker, 54, will relate to lawmakers at a Parliament
hearing his side of a 2008 phone call with former Barclays Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  that has drawn the Bank of
England into the furor on interest-rate manipulation. A memo
Diamond wrote suggested Tucker might have hinted that Barclays
could lowball its Libor submissions.  Barclays was fined a record 290 million pounds ($449
million) last month for manipulation of the  London  interbank
offered rate. The revelation about Tucker in Diamond’s memo
jeopardized his position as the front-runner to replace King,
earned as the deputy governor entered his fourth decade working
at the central bank.  “It’s the battle of the titans where the powerful banker
is pointing the finger at the guy who’s heading to be the next
governor,” said Marcus Miller, a professor at the University of
Warwick who was doing research at the central bank at the time
of the October 2008 telephone call. “Tucker may get asked about
whether he counseled lowballing, and whether Diamond’s version
of events is believable. I think he can save himself.”  Tucker’s Testimony  Parliament’s  Treasury Committee  will begin questioning
Tucker at 4:30 p.m. in London. The central bank said last week
that he wanted to testify as soon as possible to “clarify the
position with regard to the events involving the Bank of
England, including the phone conversation with  Bob Diamond  on
Oct. 29, 2008.”  Documents released today show  correspondence  on Barclays’s
Libor rates between Tucker and Jeremy Heywood, former principal
private secretary to then-Prime Minister  Gordon Brown . Heywood
said in an Oct. 22 e-mail that the bank’s high submissions
sparked “a lot of speculation in the market over what they are
up to.”  The files also show that  Tucker e-mailed Diamond  on Oct. 25
about a recent Barclays bond issue, saying he was “struck that
your govt gnteed bond was issued at around 140 over gilts.
That’s a lot.” Diamond replied with details of the sale that
say it shows “access to wholesale funding is confirmed.”  Libor Knowledge  Tucker may also be questioned about his knowledge of any
Libor manipulation before 2008. Minutes of a meeting of bankers
and regulators led by Tucker in November 2007 show the issue was
raised  during discussions .  “Several group members thought that Libor fixings had been
lower than actual traded interbank rates through the period of
stress,” the minutes said. “Libor indices needed to be of the
highest quality given their important role.”  Diamond, Barclays’s investment-banking chief in 2008,
relayed his version of the Oct. 29 call with Tucker in an e-mail
to  John Varley , his predecessor as CEO. Regulators obtained the
note as they probed Barclays’s Libor reports, which cumulated in
the bank receiving the record fine. Diamond, Chairman Marcus Agius and Chief Operating Officer Jerry Del Missier have since
resigned.  According to Diamond’s memo, Tucker had received calls from
“senior figures within Whitehall” on Barclays’s Libor pricing.
Tucker stated “that while he was certain we did not need
advice, that it did not always need to be the case that we
appeared as high as we have recently.”  Diamond told lawmakers last week that he didn’t interpret
the conversation as a request to change Libor submissions.  Nationalization  Diamond said he asked Tucker to tell government officials
that not all banks were providing Libor quotes that represented
the true level at which they could borrow money. He said he was
also concerned Barclays could have been nationalized if it
showed signs of difficulties in obtaining funding.  Andrea Leadsom, a Conservative lawmaker who once worked for
Barclays and who will question Tucker today, said the central
bank “is not corruptible” and that she expects it played no
part in manipulation of Libor. Tucker’s request also suggests
his innocence, she said.  “I would be astonished if anybody at the BOE played any
part in suggesting to Barclays what to do with Libor,” she said
in an interview. “The fact that he was so desperate to come in
means he wants to make it very clear he had nothing to do with
it. If I had a hat, I’d be prepared to eat it.”  Fraud Investigation  Libor is calculated by a survey of banks’ daily estimates
of how much it would cost them to borrow from one another for
different time frames and in different currencies. Because
submissions aren’t based on real trades, the potential exists
for the benchmark to be manipulated. The U.K. Serious Fraud
Office said on July 6 that it’s opened a criminal probe.  Tucker’s testimony may also shed light on the efforts by
officials to fight the 2008 financial crisis. The call with
Diamond took place at the end of a month when the British
government took controlling stakes in  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc  and HBOS Plc in the wake of the Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. collapse.  Miller of Warwick University did research at the  Bank of
England  from October to December 2008 and said that from his
office in Threadneedle Street in London, he found a
“strangely” tranquil atmosphere in the bank amid the crisis.  “Though the governor and deputy governor were rushing to
Downing Street to arrange the bailout, the day-to-day activity
was very calm compared to outside, where all these high-paid
people were running around like chickens,” he said. “People
who were being paid a fraction of those salaries were working
very hard to save those people from themselves. Thank goodness
that there’s some areas of integrity left.”  Financial Panic  Tim Congdon, a former U.K. Treasury adviser, said that any
revelations on Libor that emerge today should be seen in the
context of the financial panic officials were trying to stem.  “I quite understand why in these circumstances people
would have turned a blind eye, and not have been disapproving if
a bank had been a bit economical with the truth,” he said. “If
it does emerge that he didn’t disapprove, to me that’s not
terribly important. There was a public policy interest in
disguising the truth.”  Tucker is no longer the favorite to replace King, according
to odds offered by bookmaker  Paddy Power Plc. (PAP)  His odds have
worsened to 9/4 from 6/4, while Gus O’Donnell moved into 7/4
from 2/1. O’Donnell was a 14/1 shot at the start of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  