-- NBA’s James, Anthony, Bryant Will Defend Olympic Gold for U.S.
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-07-08T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/usa-basketball-adds-griffin-iguodala-to-12-man-olympic-roster.html
     July 8 (Bloomberg) -- LeBron James ,  Kobe Bryant  and Carmelo Anthony will lead a 12-man USA Basketball team seeking to repeat
as Olympics champions at the London Games, beginning July 27.  The National Basketball Association trio will play
alongside fellow gold medal teammates  Chris Paul and Deron Williams, as well as  Kevin Durant ,  Russell Westbrook , Tyson Chandler, Kevin Love,  Blake Griffin , Andre Iguodala and  James Harden .  “We feel like we’re definitely a great team. We have all
the pieces that we need,” Anthony said last night after the
roster was announced. “We’ve got to put it together, but we
feel like we’re the best team out there.”  Griffin, Iguodala and Harden secured their roster positions
yesterday as injuries forced four players to withdraw from
consideration.  “The final selections keep us in concert with our game
plan to have athleticism, versatility and strong depth on our
roster,” Jerry Colangelo, USA Basketball chairman, said in a
statement.  “I think our final roster epitomizes all of that.”  Miami Heat forward Chris Bosh and teammate Dwyane Wade,
 Derrick Rose  of the Chicago Bulls and Dwight Howard of the
Orlando Magic skipped the trials because of injuries. Lamar Odom
of the Los Angeles Clippers, withdrew his name.  Deeper Than 2008  “We projected we would have difficulty getting down to a
roster of 12, regardless of the number of injuries that have
taken place, because they are such an outstanding group of
people and athletes,” Colangelo said.  At the 2008 Olympics, the U.S. pulled ahead in the final
two minutes of the game to defeat Spain 118-107.  “When I think about ‘08, we were really good then. But
like me, LeBron and D-Will, all of us talk about, you’ve got to
think about how much better all of us are now than we were in
’08,” Paul said. “One through 12, no question we’re deeper
than we were in ’08.”  Among those not making the team were Eric Gordon, Rudy Gay
and  Anthony Davis , this year’s No. 1 National Basketball
Association draft pick, who sprained his ankle.  The team is coached by Duke University Hall of Famer Mike Krzyzewski and returns five members of the 2008 gold medal
winners: Anthony, Bryant, James, Paul and Williams. Chandler,
Durant, Iguodala, Love and Westbrook played on the 2010 World
Championship winning team.  The team will train in Las Vegas through July 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  