-- Virgin Atlantic Plans Moscow Flights Using Surrendered BA Slots
-- B y   E l e a n o r   L a w r i e
-- 2012-07-08T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/virgin-atlantic-plans-moscow-flights-using-surrendered-ba-slots.html
U.K. billionaire  Richard Branson ’s
Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. said it aims to begin services to
Moscow next year using operating slots at  London ’s Heathrow
airport relinquished by  British Airways (IAG)  parent IAG.  Virgin plans to offer daily flights using Airbus SAS A330
wide-body jets should it secure takeoff and landing positions
that European Commission regulators have ordered BA to surrender
after its takeover of  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ’s BMI unit.  “Linking these two cities will be an important part of our
strategy to run short-haul flights into Heathrow, thus feeding
our long-haul network,” Chief Executive Officer Steve Ridgway
said today in a statement. “Our core flying has always been
across the Atlantic but we will also continue to grow our routes
to  emerging markets  if given the slots at  London Heathrow .”  Virgin intends to apply for all 12 slots at Heathrow due to
be given up by BA, its biggest competitor at Europe’s busiest
airport, spokeswoman Joanne Foster said. The Crawley, England-
based carrier would use at least seven of the openings for
flights from  Scotland  to replace vital feeder traffic that had
been provided by BMI, with which it had a code-share agreement.  Russia would be the third BRIC country served by Virgin,
along with China and India, and would also further the carrier’s
strategy of offering more connections with its trans-Atlantic
services from destinations to the east and south.  The purchase of BMI by British Airways, which merged with
Spain’s Iberia last year to form International Consolidated
Airlines Group SA, secured 42 Heathrow slot pairs, excluding
those to be surrendered, or 51 percent of the total.  Of the slots to be given up, IAG said March 30 that seven
are to be used for flights to Edinburgh and/or Aberdeen and five
for services to those destinations or Nice, Cairo, Moscow or
Riyadh in Saudi Arabia. A further two pairs will be leased to
Russia’s OAO  Transaero Airlines (TAER) , also for services to Moscow.  Virgin Atlantic announced its Moscow plans following its
inaugural service to the Mexican tourist city of Cancun.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleanor Lawrie in London at 
 elawrie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  