-- Wall Street’s Captive Arbitrators Strike Again
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-07-08T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/wall-street-s-captive-arbitrators-strike-again.html
A set piece of Voltaire’s 18th
century masterpiece, “Candide,” is a scene in which the
British, after losing a battle, execute one of their own
admirals “pour encourager les autres.”  The analogy may be a bit heavy-handed, yet in many ways it
fits what Finra -- the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority,
 Wall Street ’s self-regulatory organization -- did to three
arbitrators who, in May 2011, had the temerity to find in favor
of a customer in a securities arbitration against Merrill Lynch,
the nation’s largest brokerage and a unit of  Bank of America
Corp.  After awarding the estate of the customer more than
$520,000 -- a large amount by arbitration standards --Finra
heard from unhappy Merrill executives and fired the arbitrators,
two of whom had many years of experience.  “You mete out justice, and then you get slapped in the
face,” one of the fired arbitrators, Fred Pinckney, told me in
an interview.  The matter began in December 2009, after Robert C. Postell,
of Alpharetta,  Georgia , and his wife, Joan, filed an arbitration
claim against Merrill Lynch for more than $640,000 plus
attorney’s fees. Postell, who had a successful automotive-
safety-equipment business, claimed that his Merrill broker
failed “to adequately monitor” his accounts, according to a
publicly available copy of the Finra arbitration summary. The
Postells also asserted claims of “breach of contract” and
“breach of fiduciary duty” against Merrill. Not surprisingly,
the brokerage, through its attorney, Terry Weiss, of Greenberg
Traurig LLP, in Atlanta, denied the Postells’ claims.  Finra Waiver  Anyone who works on Wall Street or has a brokerage account
must agree, from the outset, that any financial claims made
against their employer or broker will be adjudicated not in the
courts but in an arbitration process overseen by Finra, a
private organization that derives the bulk of its  $1 billion  in
revenue from the Wall Street companies that are its members.
This upfront agreement by millions of Americans to submit to a
Finra arbitration process -- which I experienced first hand in
2003-2004 -- constitutes one of the largest ongoing
abdications of legal rights in the U.S., and nobody seems to be
bothered enough to rectify it.  (To make matters worse,  Mary Schapiro , the chairman of the
Securities and Exchange Commission, was previously head of
Finra, whose board awarded her a $9 million bonus when she left
that post in January 2009.)  In May 2011, the Postells’ arbitration claim was heard in
seven sessions over four days by the three Finra-appointed
arbitrators: Ilene Gormly, the chairperson and a former
compliance executive at a commercial bank; Daniel Kolber, a
securities-law attorney and the founder of Intellivest
Securities Inc., a small Georgia investment bank; and Pinckney,
an Atlanta attorney. The arbitrators are paid about $200 a day.  According to Pinckney, at the final hearing, on May 6, the
arbitrators were informed that Postell had committed suicide in
February. His estate, along with Joan, would be the claimants in
the arbitration and the beneficiaries of any award. Also during
the final hearing, according to Pinckney, Weiss, Merrill’s
attorney, sensed that he was losing the case and repeatedly
“exploded at the panel,” accusing the arbitrators of being
biased in their views and rulings against Merrill. The panel
took a break, called Finra executives and explained Weiss’s
accusations. With  Finra ’s blessing, the arbitrators decided to
proceed to final arguments and conclude the matter. Soon
thereafter, the arbitrators found in favor of the Postells and
awarded Joan and her husband’s estate $520,000 in damages.  Culled Roster  According to Pinckney, about two months later, Kolber got
what Pinckney called a “black spot letter” from Finra
explaining that the private regulator periodically examined its
“roster” and culled people from it. “As a result,” Kolber’s
letter read, “please be advised that you are no longer being
listed as an active member of Finra’s dispute resolution roster
of arbitrators.”  Then, in January 2012, Gormly, who has about 20 years
experience as an arbitrator, got her “black spot letter.” In
June, Pinckney was notified that he was relieved of his duties.
According to Pinckney, Finra executives denied a request from
Kolber for a meeting. Then, Gormly sent a “whistle-blower”
letter to the SEC, describing the situation. She hasn’t heard
back.  “I told her that she will probably be waiting until hell
freezes over,” Pinckney said.  Pinckney is pretty disgusted by this turn of events,
especially since there were no grounds to appeal the
arbitrators’ decision in the Postell case and no appeal was
filed. Nothing about what the three arbitrators did was ever
questioned, except by Weiss, the Merrill lawyer who saw his case
being lost. Pinckney said his fellow arbitrators weren’t looking
for reinstatement or compensation. He contacted me to share his
story because he was so outraged that Wall Street has the
ability to exact revenge on arbitrators in a quasi-judicial
system where it already holds most of the cards anyway.  “It’s unbelievable that they would take such an
experienced panel and get rid of it,” Pinckney said. “To me,
this undermines the credibility of the entire Finra process -- I
didn’t say kangaroo court -- but when you have three well-
credentialed people, doing their job, and there were no
meritorious grounds for an appeal, and we get handed the ‘black
spot’ -- and not all at once -- it makes for a pretty cheap
novel.”  Where does it all end? Will there really be zero
accountability for bankers, traders and executives who caused a
calamitous financial crisis, or the collapse of MF Global
Holdings Ltd., or who were gambling with $350 billion of
depositors’ money, or who were manipulating Libor, or for those
who are further cheapening a Wall Street-administered
arbitration system that already reeks of injustice?  (William D. Cohan , a former investment banker and the
author of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the
World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on whether it’s a  penalty or a
tax  and the  latest jobs report ; Susan P. Crawford on whether
 Google is a monopoly ;  Albert R. Hunt  on  gaming the Electoral
College ;  Simon Johnson  on  banks’ living wills ;  Pankaj Mishra  on
the false promise of  Asian values ; Jed Kolko on the downside of
 rising house prices .  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 