-- Cambodia’s Outbreak Linked to Hand, Foot, Mouth Virus
-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-07-09T07:46:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-08/mystery-disease-investigation-in-cambodia-advances-on-virus-find.html
Researchers found a virus that causes
 hand, foot and mouth disease  in patients who succumbed to an
illness that has killed dozens of children in  Cambodia .  The  Institut Pasteur  du Cambodge discovered enterovirus 71
in 15 of 24 children presenting with the symptoms since mid-
June, Philippe Buchy, head of the Phnom Penh-based institute’s
virology unit, said yesterday by phone. The virus may be linked
to the deaths of more than 60 children across the country since
April, he said.  “This information is valuable and will help the
investigation tremendously,” said Nima Asgari, leader of the
emerging diseases surveillance and response group at the  World
Health Organization  in Cambodia, which is helping the local
Ministry of Health find the cause of the illness.  Samples tested were negative for influenzas including H5N1,
or bird flu, SARS and Nipah virus, the Ministry of Health and
WHO said in a  joint statement  yesterday. If enterovirus 71 is
further confirmed, “it is in a sense reassuring -- at least we
know it’s not a new virus that has stepped out of the
woodwork,” said Malik Peiris, chair professor in virology at
the University of Hong Kong’s  School of Public Health .  The investigators are reviewing the records of cases in
which hospitalized children died before the tests started to
confirm they “at least clinically and epidemiologically” fit
the hand, foot and mouth disease profile, Asgari said in an e-
mailed response to questions.  ‘Unknown Disease’  A total of 59 children were affected by this “unknown
disease,” according to a review of suspected hospitalized
cases, the Ministry of Health and WHO said.  The Southeast Asian kingdom’s health ministry announced
July 4 that it was working with the WHO to actively investigate
the cause of the deaths. The majority of the patients were
hospitalized in the  Kantha Bopha Children’s Hospital  in  Phnom
Penh , the WHO said in a July 6  statement .  Children admitted to hospitals with symptoms including high
fever, breathing difficulty and neurological problems had rapid
deterioration of respiratory function, Joy Rivaca Caminade, a
technical officer with WHO’s Regional Office for the Western
Pacific in  Manila , said July 6.  The affected children developed “in the last hours of
their life a total destruction of the alveolas in the lungs,”
Beat Richner, head of the hospital, said yesterday in an e-
mailed statement. They also suffered  encephalitis , he said.  Vorn Pov  Among the dead was Vorn Pov, whom his father said was 12
years old. In Cambodia, it’s common to add a year when counting
ages. Vorn Pov died on June 23, about a week after he first
became sick. His father, Khuth Vorn, 53, lives in a wooden
thatched roof house next to lush green rice fields in Prey Veng
province, southeast of Phnom Penh near the border with  Vietnam .  When Vorn Pov first got sick, Khuth Vorn took him to a
local clinic, where he stayed for three days. He was transferred
to a private clinic in Prey Veng provincial town for four days
when his condition worsened, after which he was taken to the
Kantha Bopha hospital, Khuth Vorn said. His son arrived at 5
p.m. and was pronounced dead four hours later.  “The doctors said his lungs had burned,” Khuth Vorn said,
sitting shirtless at a stone table as half-a-dozen barefooted
small children played around him in dirt littered with plastic
bags, empty soda bottles and discarded cigarette packages. “My
wife was sobbing. We felt helpless.”  Provincial and district officials visited him yesterday to
find out more details about his son’s illness, he said.  Iceberg Effect  “If EV-71 is the explanation, what very likely occurred is
a massive outbreak of hand, mouth and foot disease, which might
not have hit the radar because it’s generally a mild disease and
lasts for a few days,” said Peiris.  Peiris explained that in  epidemiology  there is what is
called the iceberg effect: where only a small percentage of the
affected present as a serious disease. “What is different could
be the host’s ability to combat the disease,” he said.  Hand, foot and mouth disease is a common infectious disease
in infants and children, according to the joint release. It is
spread from person to person by direct contact with nose or
throat discharges, saliva, fluid from blisters, or the feces of
the infected, according to the release.  The  coxsackievirus A16  is the most common cause of hand,
foot and mouth disease, according to the release, which usually
results in a “mild, self-limited disease with few
complications.” Enterovirus 71 “causes the same picture of the
disease, and in some cases it has the predilection to hit the
brain stem region, which may explain the complications seen in
the Cambodian patients,” Peiris said.  The majority of the children affected by the illness were
less than 3 years old, according to the joint statement.  “We hope to be able to conclude our investigation in the
coming days,” Cambodia’s Minister of Health Mam BunHeng, said
in the joint release.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natasha Khan in  Hong Kong  at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net  