-- ‘Thor’ Sequel Tops Box Office With $86 Million for Disney
-- B y   B e n   L i v e s e y
-- 2013-11-10T16:59:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-10/-thor-sequel-tops-box-office-with-86-million-for-disney.html
“Thor: The Dark World,” the
superhero sequel from  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s Marvel studios, placed
first in U.S. and Canadian theaters this weekend, collecting $86
million.  The new film, part of Marvel’s potent constellation of box-office superheros, outsold its 2011 predecessor, which had sales
of $65.7 million in its debut. The film’s performance
underscores the impact of last year’s “Marvel’s The Avengers,”
Disney’s highest grossing film ever,  Rentrak Corp. (RENT)  said in an e-mailed statement today. “Thor” was projected to take $97
million by BoxOffice.com.  One “Avengers” character has already returned for a solo
spin in theaters. “Iron Man 3,” released in May, is the top-grossing movie this year with $1.22 billion worldwide, with
almost double the sales “Iron Man 2.”  “It’s a trickle-down effect,” said Phil Contrino, chief
analyst for researcher BoxOffice.com. “Iron Man 3 came after it
and did extremely well and now Thor is benefiting too. It’s a
text book case of brand-building the right way.”  Its debut this weekend gives “Thor: The Dark World” the
fourth-highest domestic opening this year, behind “Iron Man
3,” “Man of Steel,” from Warner Bros, and “Fast & Furious
6,” from Universal Pictures, which took $97.4 million in its
opening in May, according to Rentrak.  Disney, the world’s largest entertainment company, acquired
Marvel, the comic book and movie company in December 2009 for
$4.2 billion.  Disney Investment  In July, Disney said it bought the rights to the first two
“Iron Man” movies, “Thor” and “Captain America: The First
Avenger,” held by  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s Paramount. The move gives
Disney more control over Marvel’s film library as it expands the
characters into its television shows and theme-park attractions.  Last week, Disney said it will produce four Marvel
superhero TV series for  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the online-streaming
service, in a multiyear deal. The Burbank, California-based
company also plans a sequel to “Captain America: The First
Avenger.”  In “Thor: The Dark World,” Chris Hemsworth returns as the
title character. He battles to save Earth and the Nine Realms
from the Dark Elves, newly emerged from hibernation and armed
with a long-buried, universe-destroying substance. Thor’s
challenge is complicated when his love interest, played by
Natalie Portman, is infected with the substance. Thor must also
contend with his scheming brother Loki, played by Tom
Hiddleston.  RottenTomatoes.com , a review aggregator site, gave it a 66
percent fresh rating.  “It’s a review-proof movie,” said Paul Dergarabedian,
senior media analyst at Rentrak. “Fans just want to have fun
watching it. Anytime a Marvel movie opens it’s like a
behemoth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Livesey in San Francisco at 
 blivesey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  