-- Australian Yields Rise on U.S., China Growth; N.Z. Dollar Gains
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-11-11T05:55:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-10/australian-yields-rise-on-u-s-china-growth-aussie-holds-drop.html
Australia ’s bond  yields  climbed,
extending the steepest rise this quarter among developed
markets, on signs of economic growth in China and the U.S.  New
Zealand ’s dollar gained on the outlook for milk production.  The Aussie dollar halted its biggest two-day slide since
August after industrial output growth unexpectedly accelerated
in China, the South Pacific nation’s biggest trading partner,
and domestic home loans increased. The currency touched a five-week low on Nov. 8 after data showed the U.S. added more jobs
than forecast last month. The kiwi dollar advanced against its
major counterparts after Auckland-based Fonterra Cooperative
Group Ltd. said milk-solids volume increased.  “The rise in Aussie yields owes a significant debt to
developments in the U.S.,” said  Sean Callow , a senior currency
strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in Sydney. “It’s
encouraging that China’s growth seems to be holding up. It’s not
accelerating greatly, but it’s not ringing any alarm bells at
all. That’s certainly a positive for Aussie.”  Australia’s benchmark 10-year bond  yield  rose nine basis
points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 4.22 percent as of 4:41
p.m. in Sydney. It earlier touched 4.25 percent, the highest
level since Oct. 16. Yields on three-year notes gained six basis
points to 3.13 percent.  The Aussie was at 93.80 U.S. cents from 93.85 on Nov. 8,
when it touched 93.53, the weakest since Oct. 2. It fell 1.5
percent over the previous two sessions. New Zealand’s dollar
gained 0.2 percent to 82.70 U.S. cents, rebounding from a 1.5
percent two-day drop.  China Growth  China ’s industrial production rose 10.3 percent in October
from a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said Nov.
9, exceeding the 10 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists and the previous month’s 10.2 percent.  In the U.S., payrolls grew by 204,000 in October, versus
the median forecast for a 120,000 gain, Labor Department data
showed Nov. 8. A day earlier, the Commerce Department said gross
domestic product grew at a 2.8 percent annualized rate in the
third quarter, up from 2.5 percent in the previous period.  “One more good report could see the Fed begin reducing its
bond purchases as early as its 17-18 December meeting,”
National Australia Bank Ltd. analysts led by  Peter Jolly  wrote
in an e-mailed note to clients. “An early start to Fed tapering
should push the USD higher across the board, translating to a
lower AUD.”  Housing Market  Australia’s dollar was supported after data today showed
the nation’s  home loans  gained 4.4 percent in September,
following a 4 percent decline the previous month.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia “has noted that the
improvement in the housing market is the result of lower
 interest rates  unlocking demand for dwellings. And prior cuts to
the cash rate are still making their way through the economy,”
Commonwealth Bank of Australia analysts, including Sydney-based
chief economist Michael Blythe, wrote in a research note. “We
still see the RBA leaving the cash rate at 2.50 percent for a
considerable period.”  Traders see a 9 percent chance the central bank will lower
the cash rate by the end of the year, compared with 20 percent
odds signaled a month ago, according to  interest-rate swaps  data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Regional central banks have been among the buyers of
covered bonds issued by Australian banks, according to the text
of a speech delivered today in Sydney by the RBA’s head of
domestic markets, Chris Aylmer.  Japanese investors sold a net 4.6 billion yen ($46.5
million) of Australian dollar-denominated debt in September, the
least in 11 months, according to Ministry of Finance data
released in  Tokyo  today. They were net buyers of Australia’s
sovereign debt for a fourth month.  Kiwi Climbs  Demand for New Zealand’s kiwi dollar increased after
Fonterra, the world’s largest dairy exporter, said milk-solids
volume rose 4.7 percent in the season to Oct. 31. The value of
some products currently held in inventory by a unit could be
higher than their expected future selling price, it said.  New Zealand Finance Minister  Bill English  said today a
strong domestic currency has been a headwind for the economy.
The  U.S. dollar  needs to rise to help New Zealand’s economy
rebalance, English said, adding that he expects the greenback to
strengthen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  