-- Banks in Sweden Told to Reduce Market Reliance for Mortgages
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-11-11T15:28:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-10/banks-in-sweden-told-to-cut-market-reliance-for-mortgage-funding.html
Swedish Finance Minister  Anders Borg 
said he wants  banks  in the largest Nordic economy to rely more
on traditional deposits than on wholesale debt markets to
finance their mortgage lending.  “In the long-term, I think we can find financing models
for mortgages that focus more on deposits and less on expensive
funding,” Borg said in a Nov. 8 interview in Stockholm. “That
way Sweden should end up with lower costs for mortgage funding
in the long-term in the same way that we’re seeing in our
neighboring countries.”  Borg, whose warnings in the past have frequently led to
regulatory adjustments, has long urged banks in Sweden to cut
their reliance on short-term foreign currency funding. He’s now
broadening that criticism to include mortgage finance, which
lenders mostly do through covered bonds, much of it in dollars
and euros.  “Banks also in the long-term ought to abandon this
expensive financing model where they’re dependent on market
financing and currency-based market financing and focus more on
getting funding from households through deposits,” Borg said.  Fueling Overheating  According to the Financial Supervisory Authority, Swedish
banks rely on covered bonds to bridge a gap in lending and
deposits born of a customer preference for placing savings in
stocks and bonds rather than in accounts that accrue little
interest. The annual market funding requirement for banks is
more than half  Sweden ’s gross domestic product, the regulator
estimates.  That represents a risk Borg says banks need to reduce. He
wants the coalition government that his party leads to assess
every “two to three quarters” whether bank rules need to be
tightened again. Doing so will “make the system more stable,
safer and less risky,” he said.  Yet there are some signs that continued tightening of
Sweden’s bank rules, among the world’s strictest, is fueling an
overheated housing market. Sweden’s four biggest  banks , which
boast some of  Europe ’s highest capital buffers, have seen their
funding costs drop as investors reward them for having large
buffers that shield them from losses. That’s allowed lenders to
pass their lower borrowing costs on to households, sustaining
demand for credit and bloating record debt loads.  Average Funding  Measures to stem  household debt  increases the likelihood
that the Swedish central bank will be able to cut  interest rates 
from 1 percent next year without fueling credit demand, Svenska
Handelsbanken AB said in a note to clients today.  The average funding cost for three-month mortgages at
 Swedbank AB (SWEDA) , Sweden’s biggest mortgage bank, has declined every
quarter since the end of 2011, falling to 1.98 percent in the
third quarter as the Swedish the housing market continues to
display signs of overheating.  At SEB AB, the equivalent rate was 1.56 percent. The bank
today published a survey which showed that almost two in three
Swedes see continued housing price increases in the next year
compared with only 11 percent predicting falling prices.  Swedish apartment prices rose 14 percent in the 12 months
through August after having more than doubled since 2000.
Private debt burdens will rise to a record 177 percent of
disposable incomes in the fourth quarter of 2015 after having
more than doubled since the mid-1990s, according to the Swedish
central bank. The development has limited the Riksbank’s ability
to cut its  main lending rate  to fuel inflation that’s been below
central bank’s 2 percent target since early last year.  Unintended Consequences  The government today said local authorities in  Stockholm 
have agreed to double planned housing construction in exchange
for an extended subway and car congestion charge zone. Swedbank
AB, Sweden’s biggest mortgage lender, said the housing shortage
will reduce Swedish economic growth by 21 billion kronor a year
for the next twenty years because of lower employment.  Meanwhile, the Swedish banking industry is warning that
some of the government’s measures, designed to reduce risk, are
having unintended consequences.  “My hope is that we, through a more nuanced discussion,
can achieve a more sober view of banks and that we together are
clearer about the importance of having a profitable and stable
banking sector,” Annika Falkengren, chief executive officer at
SEB, said in a Nov. 7 speech.  Borg, who together with Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt 
faces an election next year, says his measures will help drive
down funding and borrowing costs even further.  “It’s very central that we use good profitability in the
banking sector and a recovery of the economy to use the
opportunity to tighten the system,” Borg said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  