-- Bo Xilai Supporter Sets Up China Party as Communist Leaders Meet
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-10T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-10/bo-xilai-supporter-sets-up-new-party-as-communist-leaders-meet.html
A Chinese academic and supporter of
Bo Xilai set up a political party to push the ruling Communist
Party to obey the country’s constitution, and made the ousted
Politburo member its chairman.  Zhi Xian , which means supreme authority of the constitution,
was founded on Nov. 6, three days before the country’s top
Communist leaders started a four-day summit to map out a
blueprint for economic and social reforms. Bo, who was sentenced
in September to life in prison for bribery, abuse of power and
embezzlement, has been named its “chairman for life,” said
founder  Wang Zheng .  The Communist Party has ruled  China  since 1949 and while
the country has eight smaller non-Communist  parties , they aren’t
independent and there’s no official opposition. Writer  Liu
Xiaobo  was sentenced to 11 years in jail in 2009 on a charge of
plotting to subvert the Communist Party after helping to
organize Charter 08, an open letter calling for direct elections
and freedom of assembly.  “I set up this party because while this society has laws,
it is not ruled according to the law and that is very apparent
in the Bo Xilai case,” Wang, an associate professor of
international trade at the Beijing Institute of Economics and
Management, said in a telephone interview yesterday. “Our goal
is to correct the ruling party’s violations of the constitution.
We are not trying to stop one-party rule.”  About 370 of the Communist Party’s top officials, including
President  Xi Jinping , Premier  Li Keqiang , government ministers,
military officers and heads of state-owned companies, are
meeting in Beijing for what’s known as the Third Plenum, to
agree on an economic and social road-map for the next decade.  Corruption Campaign  Bo was mentioned as a possible candidate for the elite
Politburo Standing Committee before his ouster and his sentence
fits a broader campaign against corruption that Xi has said
poses a threat to Communist rule. His trial broke with precedent
because the court where it took place released edited
transcripts of his defense. Bo denied all the charges.  “This could be the arch conservative faction of the party
putting pressure on Xi Jinping to make some concessions
regarding reform policies during the plenum session,” Willy Wo-Lap Lam, an adjust professor of history at the  Chinese
University  of Hong Kong, said by phone yesterday. “I don’t
think that this new party will survive too long however, as Xi
is very focused on uniformity of thinking within the party.”  Wang, who is in her late forties, said she notified China’s
nine political parties as well as bodies including the National
People’s Congress, the country’s parliament, that she set up the
organization. So far there has been no reaction from the
authorities, Wang said, although she said she and others have
had “special treatment” for the last year, with their freedom
to travel limited.  One-Party Rule  “We are not trying to stop one-party rule,” she said.
“Concentration of power keeps the country from chaos but this
concentration of power must be done according to the law.”  Wang wouldn’t disclose how many people have joined the
party but said the number had exceeded her expectations.
Membership figures will be announced at the party’s first
congress which may take place in six months’ time, she said.  Wang said she has never met Bo, a former commerce minister
whose last post before his March 2012 ouster was as the party’s
top official in the southwestern city of Chongqing. He was
suspended from the Politburo a month later and accused of
serious disciplinary violations after his wife, Gu Kailai, was
accused of murdering British businessman Neil Heywood. Gu was
later convicted and given a suspended death sentence.  Silent Approval  An invitation was sent on Oct. 8 to Bo through his lawyer
to become head of the party, Wang said. She hasn’t received a
response, “which means I accept it as silent approval,” she
said  Bo attracted support for his brand of leadership, which
stressed cutting wealth disparities. He gained popularity for
cracking down on organized crime in Chongqing and his efforts to
improve urban life.  “What Bo did in Chongqing was to carry out the
constitution,” Wang said. “What Bo did for the people was for
real.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net ;
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  