-- Brent Rises After Iran Talks Fall Short of Agreement
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-11-11T13:31:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-10/brent-rises-second-day-after-iran-talks-fall-short-of-agreement.html
Brent crude  rose for a second day
after Iran and six world powers failed to agree on curbs to the
Persian Gulf nation’s nuclear program, tempering expectations of
an end to the decade-long stalemate.  Futures increased as much as 0.8 percent in London while
West Texas Intermediate fell 0.5 percent. International Atomic
Energy Agency chief Yukiya Amano is leading inspectors to Tehran
for negotiations today after Iran’s talks in Geneva with
permanent members of the  United Nations Security Council  and
 Germany  over the weekend ended without a deal. Prices also
climbed as Chinese government data showed an expansion in
industrial production in October.  “Almost a deal is still not a deal,” said  Eugen Weinberg ,
head of commodities research at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt .
“Normally, the prospect of Iranian oil coming back to the
market should be weighing on prices, but the price reaction will
depend on the current  market sentiment .”  Brent for December settlement rose as much as 82 cents to
$105.94 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange
and was at $105.59 as of 1:18 a.m. London time. The volume of
all futures traded was 21 percent more than the 100-day average.
Prices fell 0.8 percent last week.  WTI for December delivery dropped as much as 49 cents to
$94.11 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange. Prices slid 1 cent last week to cap a fifth weekly
decline. WTI was at a discount of $11.33 to Brent, the benchmark
grade for half the world’s crude.  Nuclear Program  Brent gained 1.6 percent on Nov. 8, the most since Oct. 28,
after U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  downplayed the chances
of an accord. Iran’s oil output has decreased 16 percent since
the U.S. and the European Union tightened sanctions in July 2012
to curb its nuclear program.  Iran says its atomic development is for civilian energy and
medical use and that it has a right to enrich uranium for
peaceful purposes. The U.S. and its allies say Iran is covertly
seeking nuclear-weapons capability. The talks in Geneva included
envoys from  Russia ,  China , U.K. and  France .  Futures will probably decline if an agreement is reached
with Iran, Iraqi Oil Minister Abdul Kareem Al-Luaibi said in an
interview in  Abu Dhabi  yesterday. Brent will drop below $100 a
barrel if the curbs on Iranian oil are loosened, according to
the mean of 19 estimates from traders and analysts compiled by
 Bloomberg News  on Oct. 14.  Brent has averaged $108.50 this year and last settled below
$100 on May 1. Iran is one of 12 members of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, which has predicted shrinking
demand for its shipments amid a surge in U.S. shale production.  Iran Output  “The loosening of the sanctions is the first step toward
significant easing in geopolitical tension and political risk in
the oil market,” said  Michael Lynch , the president of Strategic
Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,  Massachusetts .  Total SA, Europe’s biggest oil refiner, will resume
business with Iran if diplomatic talks lead to the removal of
sanctions, Chief Executive Officer Christophe de Margerie said
at a conference in Abu Dhabi yesterday.  Iran was the sixth-largest producer in OPEC last month with
2.6 million barrels a day of  output , a separate Bloomberg survey
of analysts and companies shows. That’s down 565,000 barrels
from June 2012, when it ranked second.  Shrinking Economy  The oil embargo has cost Iran about  $100 billion  in foreign
investment and oil revenue, a report by the Carnegie Endowment
for International Peace estimated in April. The nation’s economy
will contract 1.5 percent this year after shrinking 1.9 percent
in 2012, according to International Monetary Fund estimates.  Iranian President Hassan Rouhani, who took office in
August, campaigned on a pledge to improve his country’s battered
economy, and his government has set a one-year goal to address
international concerns about its nuclear program and win relief
from sanctions.  Bijan Namdar-Zanganeh, who was appointed by Rouhani as oil
minister in August and held the post from 1997 to 2005, said he
plans to restore production to pre-2005 levels, according to
comments published by his ministry Aug. 11. Iran pumped an
average of 3.91 million barrels a day in 2005, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  China, the biggest importer of Iranian crude, reduced
purchases by 1.4 percent to about 430,000 barrels a day in the
first nine months of 2013, according to data from the nation’s
General Administration of Customs.  India  plans to cut shipments
to 11 million metric tons in 2014, from 14 million this year,
Oil Secretary Vivek Rae said on Oct. 1 in  New Delhi .  China’s industrial output increased 10.3 percent in October
from a year earlier, data from the National Bureau of Statistics
on Nov. 9 show. That exceeded the median estimate of 10 percent
in a Bloomberg survey of economists and the previous month’s
10.2 percent expansion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  