-- China’s Recovery Gives Boost to Xi Amid Reform Summit: Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-11T03:32:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-10/china-s-economic-recovery-gives-boost-to-xi-amid-reform-summit.html
China’s economy  entered the final
quarter of 2013 with an acceleration in manufacturing and
exports, momentum that offered confidence to Communist leaders
gathering to determine policy shifts for the coming decade.  Industrial output rose a more-than-estimated 10.3 percent
from a year earlier in October and manufacturing investment
strengthened, according to data released Nov. 9 by the  National
Bureau of Statistics . Customs data the previous day showed
overseas sales rebounded by more than forecast.  President  Xi Jinping  and top Communist leaders tomorrow
conclude a four-day gathering to map out an economic blueprint
to sustain growth and drive the urbanization of hundreds of
millions of rural residents. Chinese media reported today on the
prospects for allowing private investment in government
businesses and for expanding a property tax nationwide as the
People’s Daily said the party needs to demonstrate the “ability
to govern.”  “The recent data all suggest a gently recovering economy -
- good enough to allow the leadership to stop worrying about the
next few months and focus on medium-term reform,” said  Stephen Green , head of Greater  China  research at Standard Chartered Plc
in Hong Kong, who correctly forecast the industrial output
growth. “The question is now whether they have a convincing-enough plan to deal with those medium-term challenges.”  Boost Forecast  Standard Chartered last month raised its estimate for
China’s 2013 economic growth to 7.6 percent from 7.5 percent and
revised next year’s forecast to 7.4 percent from 7.2 percent.
The new projections match the median estimates in Bloomberg News
surveys in October.  The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index of stocks fell 0.3
percent at 9:47 a.m. local time and the  yuan  weakened 0.02
percent.  About 370 top Communist Party members including government
ministers, military officers and heads of state-owned companies
are gathering in Beijing for a meeting known as the third plenum
to decide on the scale and pace of changes in the world’s
second-biggest economy. A communique will be released after the
meeting ends outlining the road-map.  “How to make breakthroughs and overcome hardships and how
to respond to people’s callings in a better way relate to the
appeal of reform, and are testing our party’s ability to
govern,” the Communist mouthpiece People’s Daily said today in
a front-page commentary.  Enterprise Reform  China will introduce major steps to reform state-owned
enterprises after the plenum,  China Daily  reported, citing Huang
Shuhe, vice-chairman of the State-owned Assets Supervision and
Administration Commission. The China Securities Journal cited
government researcher China Center for International Economic
Exchanges as saying in a report that the country should aim to
start a tax on individuals’ property nationwide in 2015.  The State Council’s research institute says reforms should
include curbing the government’s role in the economy, adjusting
the fiscal system and spurring foreign investment.  Easing the one-child policy, changing rural land rights and
allowing local governments to issue bonds may be among the
reforms, according to Bank of America Corp., while Mizuho
Securities  Asia  Ltd. expects policies to bolster urbanization
such as changes to the household registration, or hukou, system,
and a rebalancing of fiscal responsibilities between central and
local governments.  Sequence, Degree  There’s no disagreement on the necessity of reform, Wang
Huaichao, a professor with the Central Party School, was cited
as saying by the official Xinhua News Agency in a Nov. 9 report.
“The debate is on the sequence, degree and measures of
reform,” he said.  October’s  industrial output  growth exceeded the 10 percent
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists and the
previous month’s 10.2 percent. Gains have exceeded 10 percent in
each of the past three months, the longest stretch since the end
of 2011, excluding January and February distortions caused by
the timing of the Lunar New Year holiday.  Rockwell Automation Inc. (ROK)  Chief Executive Officer Keith
Nosbusch said factory demand in China from the auto, export and
energy industries will drive sales at the U.S. maker of factory-efficiency equipment and software after a 2013 slowdown. “We
started to see growth in China in the second half of the year
and that momentum will continue into 2014,” Nosbusch said in a
Nov. 7 interview.  Inflation Figure  October inflation was a less-than-forecast 3.2 percent,
producer prices fell 1.5 percent from a year earlier and retail
sales rose 13.3 percent.  Fixed-asset investment  excluding rural households in the
first 10 months of the year gained 20.1 percent. Manufacturing
investment grew 23.7 percent in October, up from an average 17.2
percent in the first half, according to Royal Bank of Scotland
Plc estimates.  The People’s Bank of China will report October money supply,
new loans and aggregate financing, its broadest measure of
credit, this week.  The central bank said last week the economy “may see a
decline in leverage” over a relatively long period of time, and
Premier  Li Keqiang  said in comments published last week that
issuing more money may lead to inflation, suggesting authorities
will seek to rein in  credit growth  to curb financial risks.  That, along with stronger efforts to cut excess capacity in
industries including steel, could be a drag on growth in the
short term, said  Zhu Haibin , chief China economist at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in Hong Kong.  Avoid Crisis  “We’re not talking about deleveraging or significant
tightening, I think it’s more of a tapering -- conditions were
very loose and now we’re going back to normal,” said Zhu. “If
you deleverage too hard you could have a hard landing in the
economy which could cause a financial crisis and that’s
something they want to avoid.”  China needs annual expansion of 7.2 percent a year to keep
unemployment stable, Li said in a speech last month, and
previously indicated a “bottom line” of 7 percent would be
tolerated as the government implements reforms to shift the
country away from a reliance on investment and exports.  Economic expansion of 7.6 percent this year would be down
from 7.7 percent in 2012 and the same pace as 1999, which was
the weakest expansion since 1990.  “Although growth momentum is weakening, some reform
measures, such as hukou and rural land, as well as fiscal reform,
could boost domestic demand and efficiency, and make it possible
for the economy to sustain above 7.2 percent growth,” said Shen Jianguang, chief Asia economist at Mizuho in  Hong Kong . “The
question is how determined the new leadership is to overcome
vested interests to push for fast implementation of these
reforms.”  Current Account  Elsewhere in Asia,  Japan ’s current-account surplus widened
in September to the highest since April, and Australian home-loan approvals rose more than forecast. The Sri Lankan central
bank left  interest rates  unchanged after an unexpected cut last
month.  Italian industrial output probably rose in September from
the previous month and  Russia ’s trade surplus may have widened
in September compared with August, according to separate
Bloomberg News surveys ahead of data today.  --Nerys Avery. With assistance from Scott Lanman and Regina Tan
in Beijing and James Mayger and Andy Sharp in  Tokyo . Editors:
Nerys Avery, Scott Lanman  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nerys Avery at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  