-- Chris Kirk Wins PGA Tour’s McGladrey Classic as Baird Falters
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-11-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-10/chris-kirk-wins-pga-tour-s-mcgladrey-classic-as-baird-falters.html
Chris Kirk won golf’s McGladrey
Classic by one shot over  Tim Clark  and Briny Baird, who was
denied a chance for his first U.S.  PGA Tour  victory in 365
starts when he found a water hazard on the final hole.  Kirk, 28, shot a 4-under-par 66 yesterday to finish with a
four-round total of 14 under 266 at Sea Island Resort’s Seaside
Course on St. Simons Island, Georgia. He received $990,000 for
his first PGA Tour title since his breakthrough win at the 2011
Sanderson Farms Championship -- as well as berths in the Masters
Tournament and  PGA Championship .  The 41-year-old Baird, who has made more career PGA Tour
starts without a win than any active player, was tied with Kirk
for the lead at the 18th hole before topping his approach from a
bunker into a pond for a penalty. Baird didn’t compete on the
PGA Tour last season while recovering from double-shoulder
surgery and is playing this year on a major medical extension.
This was his sixth career runner-up finish.  “This game’s so humbling it’s incredible,” Baird said.
“I could have crawled into a shell walking up to the green on
18 knowing that I had no realistic chance at winning the golf
tournament. It’s not all about winning, but this hurts.”  Clark matched Baird at 13-under par after shooting a final-round 62 that included birdies on the final three holes. Brian Gay,  John Senden  and  Scott Brown  tied for fourth place at 12
under par.  The PGA Tour’s wraparound 2013-14 season, which has six
events this year, continues Nov. 14-17 with the OHL Classic at
Mayakoba in Mexico. It then takes a six-week break before
resuming in January with its traditional swing through Hawaii
before moving to the U.S. West Coast for six events in
California and Arizona.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  