-- Cooper Not Yet Entitled to Get $35/Share From Apollo
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2013-11-11T14:07:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-10/cooper-not-yet-entitled-to-get-35-a-share-from-apollo.html
 Cooper Tire & Rubber Co. isn’t yet
entitled to an order that would force  Apollo Tyres Ltd. (APTY)  to pay a
contractually agreed $35 a share for the company, a judge said
in a weekend letter to lawyers.  Cooper must prove it had satisfied all the conditions of
the $2.5 billion buyout agreement and whether it did so remains
unresolved in litigation, Delaware Chancery Court Judge Sam Glasscock III wrote in a Nov. 9 clarification letter to lawyers.  “Cooper has failed to demonstrate a present entitlement to
specific performance,” the judge wrote, referring to the $35-a-share payment.  After a three-day trial and closing arguments, Glasscock
issued a preliminary ruling from the bench on Nov. 8, rejecting
Cooper’s contention that Apollo delayed negotiations with
Cooper’s  United Steelworkers ’ union and breached the agreement
by acting in bad faith.  Cooper, based in Findlay,  Ohio , sued Gurgaon, India-based
Apollo after Apollo failed to complete the buyout by an Oct. 4
deadline and suggested the stock might we worth as much as $9 a
share less. Apollo climbed 4.1 percent to 74.55 rupees, the
highest level since June 12, in Mumbai today. Trading volume was
almost three times the daily average. Cooper shares fell more
than 11 percent to $23.82 in Nov. 8 trading.  Apollo ‘Committed’  Apollo “continues to believe in the merits of the
combination and is committed to finding a sensible way
forward,” the company said today when releasing its fiscal
second-quarter results. Apollo’s net income rose to 2.19 billion
Indian rupees ($34.5 million) in the quarter ending Sept. 30
from 1.52 billion rupees in the year-earier period , beating
analyst estimates of 1.74 billion rupees.  Another point of contention, Glasscock wrote, is whether
Cooper can comply with a request that it provide third-quarter
company  financial results  by Nov. 14, to satisfy Apollo’s
lenders.  Cooper’s  China  venture, called Cooper Chengshan (Shandong)
Tire Co., operates the company’s biggest manufacturing site,
according to its union.  Workers there stopped producing Cooper tires July 13 to
protest the Apollo deal.  “Cooper is unlikely to be able to provide those financials
due to the physical seizure of a Cooper subsidiary in China by a
minority partner,” Glasscock wrote.  China Complications  He added that if “timely reporting of the third-quarter
financials is completed, Cooper’s request for ‘‘specific
performance will remain viable.’’  Cooper Chengshan, a joint venture between Cooper Tire and
Chengshan Group (China) founded in 2006 in the eastern Chinese
city of Rongcheng, has more than 5,000 workers and the capacity
to produce 15 million tires a year, according to its  website .  The judge has said he’d try to release a fuller ruling on
issues in the lawsuit within a few days.  Cooper’s options include agreeing to a lower price that
would accommodate Apollo.  Options for Apollo  include paying a
$112.5 million ‘‘reverse breakup fee” to walk away, according
to Cooper’s complaint.  The case is  Cooper Tire & Rubber Co. (CTB)  v. Apollo (Mauritius)
Holdings Pvt, CA8980, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  