-- CPPIB, Dexus’s A$2.8 Billion Commonwealth Fund Bid Accepted
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-11-11T06:34:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-10/cppib-dexus-s-a-2-8-billion-commonwealth-fund-bid-accepted-1-.html
Dexus Property Group (DXS) ,  Australia ’s
 biggest listed office landlord , and the Canada Pension Plan
Investment Board reached an agreement with  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia  to buy the bank’s listed office trust for A$2.83
billion ($2.66 billion).  Dexus and the Canadian fund increased their cash-and-stock
bid to A$1.2052 a share, from A$1.15-a-share last month, Dexus
said in a regulatory filing. A binding agreement must be reached
by mid-December, according to the statement.  The takeover would be the latest in a string of investments
in Australian property by CPPIB and adds to the Toronto-based
fund’s C$5.8 billion ($5.5 billion) of investments in the
country. Dexus, which agreed to buy a 14.9 percent interest in
the fund in August after Commonwealth Bank said it planned to
exit its property business, would own and manage a quarter of
the commercial buildings in Sydney following a successful
takeover.  “There’s a tremendous amount of money around the world
that wants to be invested in good quality assets in a safe
country, and that’s what CPA is,” said Adrian Atkins, a Sydney-based analyst at Morningstar Australasia Pty. “Dexus is paying
an OK price to boost their assets, get more funds under
management and get greater scale and more visibility with a
bigger portfolio.”  The companies’ revised proposal follows the rejection by
 Commonwealth Property Office Fund (CPA)  on Oct. 14 of an offer that
was equal to the fund’s net tangible assets at the time. Since
then, the fund reported Oct. 31 an increase in its NTA to A$1.19
per share.  Valuation Increase  Dexus raised the bid “because the recent valuations pushed
up the values of some properties and had an impact on NTA,”
said Winston Sammut, Sydney-based managing director at Maxim
Asset Management Ltd. “I don’t have a problem with the price.”  Sammut added that if anyone knows the real value of CPA, it
would be Darren Steinberg, who served as managing director of
Commonwealth Property Office’s manager before becoming chief
executive officer of Dexus in March 2012.  Positive Recommendation  For each CPA security, today’s offer equates to cash of
72.65 Australian cents, assuming an implementation date of March
31, and 0.4516 Dexus share based on Dexus’ closing share price
of A$1.06 on Nov. 7. The independent directors of Commonwealth
Property Office’s board have said they will recommend
shareholders vote in favor of the bid, if it proceeds, in the
absence of a superior proposal, Dexus said today.  Dexus  shares  were up 0.9 percent at A$1.07 at the close of
trading in Sydney, bringing the increase this year to 5.4
percent. CPA  shares  climbed 0.8 percent to A$1.20, extending
gains this year to 18 percent, compared with 16 percent for the
benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 index .  While the city-center office vacancy rate rose to 11.3
percent in the three months to Sept. 30, the highest since the
the first quarter of 1999, business confidence is improving,
demand is stabilizing and inquiries are starting to recover,
broker Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. said in an Oct. 16 report.  CPPIB Expansion  CPPIB bought a stake in a property trust managed by AMP
Capital Ltd. in October last year and took a A$1 billion stake
in developer Lend Lease Group’s A$6 billion Barangaroo
development in Sydney’s center in July 2012. It also invested in
an unlisted Australia fund managed by  Goodman Group , the
nation’s biggest industrial property developer, when the REIT
first made a bid to acquire the fund in October 2010.  The Canadian fund has also partnered with Australian
companies including the nation’s biggest shopping mall operator
Westfield Group and Goodman to invest in properties overseas.  Commonwealth Bank in July said it was seeking to exit its
property management business, and proposed its listed property
funds, two in Australia and one in New Zealand, set up their own
management teams. Dexus will pay an additional A$41 million to
the bank for the management rights if the consortium gains
control of the office fund.  The bank said in a separate statement today that its  New
Zealand  fund, the Kiwi Income Property Trust, has agreed to pay
NZ$72.5 million ($60 million) to take over its management rights
from Commonwealth Bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  