-- Czech Regulator Opened Bidding in Mobile Spectrum Tender
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2013-11-11T15:57:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-10/czech-regulator-to-open-bidding-in-mobile-spectrum-tender.html
The Czech Republic opened bidding in
a mobile spectrum tender today, less than a week after  Spain ’s
 Telefonica SA (TEF)  agreed to sell the country’s largest phone company
to the richest Czech.  Telefonica Czech Republic AS, in which billionaire  Petr Kellner ’s PPF Group NV agreed on Nov. 5 to buy a majority for
about $3.4 billion, is vying for frequencies sold by the  Czech
Telecommunications Office , along with existing rivals T-Mobile
Czech Republic AS and Vodafone Czech Republic and two newcomers.  “Apart from PPF, which is to buy Telefonica, there aren’t
any other credible new candidates to enter the market,” Erste
Group AS analyst Vera Sutedja said by phone. “The distribution
of frequencies” following the tender “and the price Telefonica
will pay will be important news for minority shareholders as it
might influence the buyout offer.”  The regulator, known as CTU, wants the auction to expand
competition in the local market, long dominated by the three
large telecommunication providers, by allocating a frequency
band to a new player. Revolution Mobile, a former unit of PPF,
and Czech billionaire Karel Komarek’s Sazka Communications, are
also participating.  CTU opened bidding for the spectrum at 10:30 a.m., it said
in an e-mailed statement. Five participants are taking part and
bidding should finish by end-December, it said.  Seven-Year Requirement  The auction rules require winners to hold the frequencies
for at least seven years before being allowed to sell them. CTU
expects the auction, which includes frequencies that will enable
providers to offer new 4G mobile services, to raise at least
8.72 billion koruna ($432 million).  Kellner’s investment company will buy a 65.9 percent stake
in Telefonica CR for 305.6 koruna a share. It withdrew in
September from the planned auction, citing conditions that
preclude it from merging with a rival for 15 years, and sold the
unit to its executive officer.  Telefonica fell 2 koruna, or less than 1 percent, to 298
koruna in Prague trading.  Also,  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  agreed to buy GTS  Central Europe 
for 546 million euros ($730 million) from private equity firms
including Columbia Capital, HarbourVest Partners, adding land-line networks in  Poland , the Czech Republic,  Hungary  and
 Romania , it said yesterday.  Failed Auction  The tender is a repeat of one that failed in March when the
regulator ruled that bids exceeding 20 billion koruna risked
triggering an unwanted jump in prices for users.  PPF  was the
only newcomer bidding against the existing three operators.  The price shouldn’t reach “such levels” in the current
sale because PPF is not trying to enter as a newcomer, according
to Erste Group’s Sutedja. The business case for a fourth player
would not be an “easy one with the market penetration rate
already exceeding 130 percent,” Sutedja said.  Operators across the globe are rushing to build faster
networks based on  Long Term Evolution , or LTE, technology that
will enable consumers to shop online and stream videos faster
and communicate better.  After the  Czech Republic ’s auction failure in March and a
proposal of new rules for a rerun, mobile providers cut tariffs
that, according to Finnish consultancy Rewheel, had been the
second highest in the European Union.  CTU head Jaromir Novak has repeatedly said revenue is not
the main goal of the auction. The regulator wants to allow a new
operator to the market to boost competition and improve services
for clients, he said. All three existing operators contested the
tender conditions in courts and at the European Commission.  Telefonica’s current management, which will remain in
charge before the takeover is closed and approved by watchdogs
in a few months, has enough expertise to buy what’s needed in
the auction, PPF’s investment director Martin Stefunko told
Hospodarske Noviny in an interview on Nov. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  