-- Dubai Stocks Climb Most in Week on Expo 2020 Bets; Kuwait Gains
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-11-10T13:36:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-10/dubai-stocks-climb-most-in-week-on-expo-2020-bets-muscat-gains.html
Dubai’s benchmark stock index rose
the most in a week, led by engineering firm Drake & Scull, on
bets the emirate will win a bid later this month to host the
World Expo in 2020. Kuwait’s equity gauge also advanced.  The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  gained 0.2 percent, the most since
Oct. 31, to 2,903.3 at the close. Almost 786 million dirhams
($214 million) of shares were traded, compared with the 533 
million-dirham daily average over the past year. Kuwait’s index
advanced 0.5 percent, while  Abu Dhabi ’s ADX General Index fell
0.1 percent.  Israel ’s TA-25 Index rose 0.4 percent and the yield
on the country’s benchmark bond added the most in three months.  Speculation that Dubai will be chosen Nov. 27 to host the 
World Expo 2020 are helping sentiment amid signs the emirate's
real-estate industry is rebounding.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , the
builder of the world’s tallest skyscraper in Dubai, said last
month that third-quarter net income rose 50 percent, beating 
analysts' estimates.  “A big catalyst for the market in the shape of the
decision on Dubai’s Expo bid is at the end of the month,” Amer Khan, a Dubai-based director at Shuaa Asset Management, said in
an e-mail. “The market is essentially also digesting the third-quarter earnings, which have overall been quite positive.”  Expo Expectations  Drake & Scull International PJSC (DSI) , a Dubai-based provider of
engineering services to the building industry, rose 5.7 percent 
to a record 1.31 dirhams. Emaar, whose 20 percent weighting is 
the heaviest in the index, climbed 0.3 percent to 6.1 dirhams.  Dubai’s economy, the second-biggest among the seven that
make up the U.A.E., is set to expand an average 4.6 percent a
year between 2012 and 2015, more than twice the rate of the
previous four years, according to government forecasts. The
emirate’s annual economic growth will be boosted by about 0.5
percentage points in the run-up to the Expo and by about 2
percentage points during the event should Dubai be selected,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch said in a report Sept. 23.  In other countries in the region, Muscat’s measure advanced
0.2 percent, Qatar’s gauge was unchanged and Bahrain’s All Share
Index lost 0.2 percent. Saudi Arabia’s Tadawul All Share Index
slipped 0.2 percent.  Muscat, Qatar  Vodafone Qatar gained 5.5 percent to 9.73 riyals, the
highest since Oct. 2009, on expectations its second-quarter loss
may narrow to 76.5 million riyals from 121.7 million, according
to mean estimates of three analysts compiled by Bloomberg. The
company reports results on Nov. 14.  Gulf Finance House BSC, a Bahraini Islamic investment bank,
rose to the highest in more than two weeks after saying it was
in advanced negotiations to sell a stake in its India
projects. The shares added 1.1 percent to 45.5 dinars.  Dar Al Arkan Real Estate Development Co. (ALARKAN)  fell 1.2 percent
to 10 riyals, the lowest in a week.  Kingdom Holding Co. (KINGDOM) , the
 investment company  owned by  Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal , advanced
3.4 percent to the highest since December 2007.  Clashes between Saudi police and foreign nationals in
 Riyadh  killed two people, including a Saudi citizen, as the
government implemented a nationwide crackdown on undocumented
workers. Police arrested 561 people during the riots that
erupted in Manfouha in south Riyadh, the official Saudi Press
Agency said, citing a police statement. The violence left 68
injured and damaged 104 cars, the news service said.  Egypt, Israel  Egypt ’s benchmark EGX 30 Index of stocks declined 0.9
percent, snapping a seven-day winning streak, as of the trial of
former president Mohamed Mursi started. Taalat Moustafa Group
Holding fell the most, dropping 2.3 percent.  Israel’s  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  added 0.4 percent. The yield on the
country’s benchmark bonds due March 2023 surged seven basis
points, or 0.07 percentage point, the most on a closing basis
since Aug. 19, to 3.67 percent. The yield on benchmark U.S. 10-year Treasury notes rose 15 basis points on Nov. 8 as reports 
showed the economy expanded more than projected in the third 
quarter and added more jobs than forecast in October, boosting
bets the  Federal Reserve  is closer to cutting monetary stimulus.  Envoys from  Iran  and world powers may not agree to an
accord today in Geneva that would ease the decade-long dispute
over the Islamic Republic’s nuclear program, an Iranian official
said. Participants are likely to issue a joint statement and
meet again in 14 days, said the official, who asked not to be
named because of the talks’ sensitivity.  Iran Nuclear Talks  Talks continued today among top diplomats from the seven
countries involved, including U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
and Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov . Efforts faltered
after French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius insisted that any
deal should include that Iran suspends construction of the
partially built heavy-water reactor in Arak and reduces its
stockpile of 20 percent enriched uranium.  Israeli Prime MinisterBenjamin Netanyahu denounced a
potential agreement on  Iran’s nuclear program  Nov. 8 as a
“very bad deal” that may ignite a serious U.S.-Israeli dispute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  