-- EU Seeks Emissions Pledge Timetable Leading to Climate Treaty
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-11-10T11:24:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-10/eu-seeks-emissions-pledge-timetable-leading-to-climate-treaty.html
The European Union is seeking a
timetable to spur countries to make emissions pledges with
enough time to revise them before signing a global climate deal
in 2015.  The timetable should balance the need to give nations
enough time to put forward “solid, well-prepared commitments,”
and the requirement for an international analysis and possible
revisions before the pact is signed, Juergen Lefevere, climate
strategy adviser to the European Commission, said today at a
press conference in Warsaw.  The 28-nation EU laid out its position a day before two
weeks of United Nations climate treaty talks begin in the Polish
capital. It’s seeking measures to scale back potent  greenhouse
gases  called hydrofluorocarbons and to increase the transparency
and measurement of existing emissions pledges.  “We need sufficient time to have a robust assessment
process” of carbon targets before 2015, Lefevere said. There
then needs to be a “discussion on how we can collectively do
more than each country would individually.”  More than 100 nations have already made emissions pledges
for the period through 2020, and the round of commitments to be
agreed in 2015 would take effect from 2020. The U.S. has also
supported international examination of proposed targets to
promote higher ambition, while rejecting outright negotiation of
the goals.  “Rather than negotiated targets and timetables, we support
a structure of nationally determined mitigation commitments,
which allow countries to ‘self-differentiate,’” U.S. climate
envoy Todd Stern said Oct. 22 in a  speech  in  London . To promote
ambition, there could then be “a consultative or assessment
period between an initial and final commitment” involving all
countries, analysts and civil society, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in Warsaw at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  