-- Forest Misuse Costs Indonesia $7 Billion in Revenue, Report Says
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 2013-11-10T17:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-10/forest-misuse-costs-indonesia-7-billion-in-revenue-report-says.html
Illegal logging and mismanagement of
Indonesia’s forestry industry may have prevented more than $7
billion flowing to state coffers from 2007 to 2011, costing the
government more than its health budget, Human Rights Watch said.  In contrast, the Indonesian government’s 2011 revenue from
timber royalties and reforestation fees was $300 million, said
Emily Harwell, the lead author of a report released by Human
Rights Watch.  “This is a very conservative estimate,” Harwell, a
partner at  Natural Capital Advisors LLC , said at a briefing in
Jakarta on Nov. 8 of lost revenue. “The calculation doesn’t
include any wood that’s smuggled.”  The report indicates weak governance is chipping away at
revenues in the world’s fourth-most populous nation, as budget
and current-account deficits this year hurt the rupiah. In 2011,
revenue missed from forestry totaled more than $2 billion,
exceeding the government’s health spending for that year, New
York-based Human Rights Watch said in the report.  The report calculated how much wood was used by industries
such as pulp, furniture and saw mills, and compared it with the
available legal supply of timber, Harwell said. The supply of
legal timber was “considerably smaller than what you need to
produce that amount of products,” Harwell said, adding that
from the missing supply she was able to calculate the lost fees.  Indonesia  ranked 118 among 176 countries on Transparency
International’s 2012 corruption perceptions index, undermining
the investment appeal of Southeast Asia’s largest economy.
Facing slowing growth, the government is trying to narrow budget
and trade gaps by curbing state spending and easing restrictions
on investment in some industries.  Most Corrupt  Out of 20 central government institutions, the Ministry of
Forestry was the only one scoring below the minimum standard for
integrity in providing public services, according to a 2012
 survey  by the Corruption Eradication Commission, or KPK. Johan Budi, a spokesman at the anti-graft agency, couldn’t be reached
when called on his mobile phone, and two calls to his office
weren’t answered.  “We do have an illegal logging problem,” Sumarto Suharno,
a spokesman at the Ministry of Forestry, said by telephone on
Nov. 8. “The case with the policeman in Papua is being
investigated and we’re looking whether anyone in the forestry
ministry is involved.”  A Papua-based policeman allegedly made almost $1 million in
transfers to senior police officials to protect illegal logging
and fuel smuggling businesses, an investigation by a Jakarta-based non-government organization Indonesia Police Watch found.
The policeman has been named a suspect, according to a statement
on the website of the Attorney General’s office. The police
force is perceived as the most corrupt institution in Indonesia,
according to Transparency International.  Plantation Pressure  State losses from illegal logging have narrowed to less
than 1 trillion rupiah ($87.6 million) a year, from about 30.7
trillion rupiah in 2002, because of certification requirements
for timber sold, Suharno said. He declined to comment on the
Human Rights Watch report, saying he has yet to see it.  Expansion of oil palm and pulp plantations to support
economic growth is occurring in existing natural forests and on
land claimed by local communities, Human Rights Watch said.
Indonesia has become the world’s largest producer of palm oil,
used to make cooking oil, biscuits and other processed foods.  Palm oil output may increase to 26.7 million tons to 27
million tons this year from 25.7 million tons in 2012, according
to Indonesia’s Palm Oil Board. The paper industry plans to
nearly double its current mill capacity by 2015, Human Rights
Watch said, citing a report by the  Center for International
Forestry Research .  Forest Dependence  “The impacts of this demand-led plantation expansion on
communities and forests are profound and long lasting,” Human
Rights Watch said, pointing to significant impact on local
economies, subsistence patterns and forest biodiversity.  In 2010 more than 9,000 villages were located within state
forests, with 71 percent depending on them for their livelihood,
it said, citing government statistics. Twelve percent of people
in Indonesia live in poverty, according to data compiled by the
 World Bank .  Human Rights Watch called for greater assessment of
government and corporate compliance with laws protecting local
land rights and compensation agreements. Forest and plantation
businesses, including their supply chains, should engage with
local non-government organizations to build transparent
grievance procedures, it said in the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  