-- General Tax Call From Davey for Green Levies Played Down
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-11-10T14:56:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-10/general-tax-call-from-davey-for-green-levies-played-down.html
A call from Energy Secretary  Ed Davey  to move two of the levies on gas and electricity bills
into general taxation was played down by a person familiar with
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s budget plans, who
indicated the matter had yet to be decided.  Liberal Democrat Davey used an interview in the Sunday
Telegraph today to suggest the taxpayer could foot the bill for
two of the so-called green levies currently paid for through
energy bills. The newspaper said that if the largest levy, the
Energy Companies’ Obligation, is removed prices might
immediately fall by 7 percent.  Energy and climate change policies add about 9 percent, or
112 pounds ($179), to current annual bills for gas and power,
the Department for Energy and Climate Change says. The biggest
contribution of the policies to average annual bills is 47
pounds from the Energy Company Obligation that means suppliers
must offer efficiency measures to vulnerable families. Other
levies include the Warm Home Discount and carbon taxes.  Davey told the paper he is happy to have a “debate” about
how green energy policies are funded, adding: “We can maybe
find there are other ways of paying for them. There may be ways
and means.”  As winter approaches, the U.K. is debating how to tackle
energy prices that are outstripping inflation. Last month four
of the “Big Six” energy firms raised prices. Prime Minister
 David Cameron  has ordered a review of environmental charges
levied on domestic bills in an effort to regain the political
initiative after the opposition  Labour Party  promised to freeze
power prices if elected in 2015.  Coalition Works  Davey’s Liberal Democrats are in a coalition with Cameron
and Osborne’s Conservatives. A person familiar with the budget
negotiations poured cold water on the suggestion that there
could be a new tax to pay for green subsidies. Osborne will set
out his tax and spending plans on Dec. 4.  The Telegraph today said Osborne would have to raise taxes
to pay for the suggestion or find savings elsewhere. The
chancellor has repeatedly said he favors spending reductions
rather than tax increases as Britain consolidates its austerity
program.  “This is all just speculation,” a spokesman for Osborne
said on condition of anonymity in line with U.K. government
rules. “We have been clear while we are dealing with Labour’s
deficit and fixing the public finances that we will do whatever
we can along the way to help hardworking people. Details will be
coming in due course.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  