-- Gurlitt Seen by Journalists in Munich, Paris Match Says
-- B y   J u l i a   M e n g e w e i n
-- 2013-11-10T18:39:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-10/gurlitt-seen-by-journalists-in-munich-paris-match-says.html
Two journalists from French magazine
Paris Match said they saw Cornelius Gurlitt, the German who had
kept a stash of 1,400 pieces of art in his apartment, the
magazine  reported  on its website.  Paris Match published a photograph of an elderly man it
identified as Gurlitt, with white hair and blue eyes, pushing a
shopping cart and wearing a heavy gray woolen coat. The 
journalists said they had watched Gurlitt leave his Munich 
apartment where he had kept more than 1,400 paintings, 
lithographs, drawings and prints that were seized by authorities 
investigating him on suspicion of  tax evasion  in March 2012.  German magazine  Spiegel  also reported that Gurlitt sent the
magazine a letter, asking to refrain from mentioning the name
Gurlitt in articles. Prosecutors said at a news conference on
Nov. 5 that they didn’t know where Gurlitt was.  The cache of art includes works by  Max Beckmann ,  Pablo Picasso , Oskar Kokoschka, Franz Marc,  Pierre-Auguste Renoir  and
Max Liebermann, prosecutors said.  Police collected 22 paintings from Cornelius Gurlitt’s
brother in law yesterday,  Bild am Sonntag  reported. Two
policemen took the paintings from the apartment of Nikolaus
Fraessle in Kornwestheim near Stuttgart,  Germany . Fraessle had
contacted the police and asked them to collect the paintings,
that he said have a relation with the pieces of art found in
Gurlitt’s apartment, Bild am Sonntag said.  Munich Apartment  Cornelius Gurlitt kept the works in a Munich apartment
handed down by his father, according to Focus magazine which
first reported the story. Gurlitt was held by officials
investigating possible  money laundering  during a random check on
a train from  Switzerland  to Munich on Sept. 22, 2010. That
investigation led to his home on Feb. 28, 2012.  Bild am Sonntag published a list of 200 paintings on its
website, saying Hildebrand Gurlitt, Cornelius’s father, bought
them for a total of 4,000 Swiss francs, according to a contract
dated May 22, 1940, of which the paper said it published an
excerpt on its website. The list includes artists such as Emil Nolde,  Otto Dix , August Macke, Ernst Ludwig Kirchner and Karl
Schmidt-Rottluff.  According to an internal report of the German Finance
Ministry, there are copies of those contracts over the works
that Gurlitt bought, Bild am Sonntag reported. Martin Kotthaus,
a ministry spokesman, declined to comment.  Swiss Report  Hildebrand Gurlitt was given two paintings -- one by  Marc Chagall  and one by Picasso -- by Swiss painter Karl Ballmer as a
present, the Swiss newspaper Schweiz am Sonntag reported today
on its  website , citing documents dating from 1950 in the
National Archive in  Washington .  Ballmer said in the documents that he gave the two
paintings to Gurlitt in 1943, during a visit in Switzerland. It
is unclear if the works were given to Gurlitt in Switzerland,
the paper reported.  Switzerland was a hub for art looted by the Nazis, Schweiz
am Sonntag reported. Some 43 Swiss museums have artworks whose
origin is only partially understood, according to the nation’s
Federal Office for Culture.  U.S. troops in 1950 compiled a list of works looted by the
Nazis that wound up in Gurlitt’s apartment, researchers from the
Holocaust Art Restitution Project said. The documents were
obtained by Bloomberg from the researchers on Nov. 5. The troops
confiscated and examined Gurlitt’s collection, and gave it back
to him in the same year.  Some 23 of the paintings seized were on show in the U.S. in
1956 in  New York  and  San Francisco , German newspaper Frankfurter
Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung reported today. The German government
paid for the show, called “A Mid-Century Review,” the
newspaper said.  The Nazis seized more than 20,000 modern artworks that they
saw as “degenerate,” or contrary to Aryan ideals, from German
museums. They also stole hundreds of thousands of artworks from
Jewish families.  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars,  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on technology,  Amanda Gordon’s  Scene Last Night and
 Katya Kazakina  on art auctions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Mengewein in Frankfurt at 
 jmengewein@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net ;
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 