-- Incognito Says He Didn’t Mean to Hurt Martin With Voice Message
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-11-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-10/incognito-says-texts-voicemail-to-martin-weren-t-meant-to-hurt.html
Richie Incognito said a voice mail
left for Jonathan Martin that contained racist and sexual slurs,
along with threats of violence, wasn’t intended to hurt his
fellow  Miami Dolphins  offensive lineman.  Incognito, who was suspended indefinitely by the Dolphins
Nov. 3 amid a National Football League probe into harassment
claims, said the voice mail was characteristic of the “vulgar”
way the two communicated.  “This isn’t an issue about bullying,” Incognito, 30, said
yesterday in an interview on Fox. “This is an issue of mine and
John’s relationship where I’d taken stuff too far and I didn’t
know it was hurting him.”  Incognito said he took as a joke a text message sent to him
by Martin in which the second-year player from  Stanford
University  threatened to murder Incognito’s family a week before
he left the team.  “I didn’t think he was going to kill my family,”
Incognito said. “I knew it was coming from a brother, I knew it
was coming from a friend, I knew it was coming from a teammate.
That just puts in context how we communicate with each other.”  Martin, 24, was harassed for the entire 1 1/2 seasons he
spent at the Dolphins and was physically assaulted by a
teammate, his lawyer, David Cornwell of Gordon and Rees LLP in
Atlanta, said Nov. 6. At the behest of the Dolphins, NFL
Commissioner  Roger Goodell  ordered an investigation, led by  New
York  attorney  Ted Wells , into the circumstances that led Martin
to leave the team.  Counseling  Martin, who hasn’t spoken publicly since leaving the
Dolphins, is in counseling for emotional issues and will discuss
the case next week with Wells, the  Associated Press  reported. An
e-mail sent to Gordon and Rees spokeswoman Colleen McGushin
yesterday seeking comment from Cornwell wasn’t immediately
answered.  Incognito said profane language is commonplace among
players, adding that Martin, via text messages on Nov. 1, said
he put the blame for his exit from the team on the culture
around football rather than on any Miami player.  “I just texted him as a friend and was like ‘what’s up
with this, man?’” Incognito said. “And he said ‘it’s not
coming from me. I haven’t said anything to anybody.’”  Incognito, who exchanged 1,142  text messages  with Martin in
the past year according to Fox, denied being a racist while
saying he is embarrassed by the content of the voice mail he
left for Martin in April. Incognito said he was Martin’s best
friend on the team.  “It sounds terrible. It sounds like I’m a racist pig. It
sounds like I’m a meathead,” he said. “If he were to say,
‘Listen, you took it way too far; you hurt me,’ I would just
apologize and explain to him.”  Past Run-ins  Incognito was kicked off the team at the University of
 Nebraska  and cut by the  St. Louis Rams  for issues that included
run-ins with teammates, opposing players and coaches.  “If you go just by all the knucklehead stuff that I’ve
done in the past, you’re sitting in your home thinking ‘this
guy’s a loose cannon, this guy’s a terrible person, this guy’s a
racist,’” Incognito said. “That couldn’t be further from the
truth.”  The Dolphins (4-4), who host the winless Tampa Bay
Buccaneers tonight, have declined to comment on the situation
until the NFL completes its investigation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 