-- Iran Faces Monitoring Test After Failing to Sway Powers
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2013-11-11T09:44:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-10/iran-faces-monitoring-test-after-failing-to-sway-powers.html
Iran  faces a new test with United
Nations monitors after failing to convince world powers the time
was right to reduce tension over its nuclear work.  International Atomic Energy Agency chief Yukiya Amano led a
delegation of inspectors that arrived in Tehran today for
negotiations aimed at widening access to people and places
connected with Iran’s nuclear work. Iranian Foreign Minister
Mohammad Javad Zarif said his country is ready to improve
cooperation.  Zarif and Amano appeared live on state television before
they went into a meeting. The foreign minister told reporters
the two sides had reached an unspecified understanding that
experts would need to review. He didn’t elaborate.  Amano voiced hope that “today’s meeting will produce a
concrete result.”  The IAEA team arrived in Iran following three days of
discussions in Geneva between Zarif and U.S. Secretary of State
 John Kerry , Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  and their
counterparts from China,  France ,  Germany  and the U.K. A
potential accord broke down on the last day after French Foreign
Minister Laurent Fabius insisted on an additional concession
from Iran.  Iranian Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  said in a
statement posted on the Twitter website that France has been
“openly hostile” toward his country in recent years in what
amounted to an “imprudent and inept” stance.  Specter of War  The Vienna-based IAEA’s decade-long investigation into
alleged past nuclear-weapons work has underpinned international
concerns about a program that has cast the specter of war and
proliferation across the  Middle East . Iran insists its program
is peaceful.  U.S. diplomats were positive about the Geneva talks.  “We not only narrowed differences and clarified those that
remain, but we made significant progress in working through the
approaches to this question of how one brings in a program that
guarantees this peaceful nature,” Kerry told reporters
yesterday. “There’s no question in my mind that we are closer
now” to an agreement.  Another round of talks in Geneva has been scheduled for
Nov. 20, European Union foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton 
said yesterday. Officials will negotiate issues including those
France’s Fabius raised, she said.  Fool’s Bargain  Fabius said in a Nov. 9 France Inter radio interview, “We
want an agreement, but not a fool’s bargain.” He objected to
letting Iran keep building a heavy-water reactor in Arak that
can produce plutonium.  Nuclear weapons can be made with highly enriched uranium,
which Iran is already capable of producing, or plutonium
extracted from spent-fuel used in heavy water reactors.  The pause in talks gives opponents in  Israel ,  Saudi Arabia 
and  Washington  time to lobby against any deal that would allow
Iran to keep sensitive nuclear technologies and to press for new
economic sanctions on Iran.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said he urged
President  Barack Obama  and leaders of other countries involved
in the talks to reject any deal with Iran that doesn’t curb or
dismantle its ability to produce a nuclear weapon.  “I told them that according to the information reaching
Israel, the apparent deal is bad and dangerous,” Netanyahu said
yesterday in remarks broadcast from the weekly cabinet meeting.
“It is dangerous not just for us, it is also dangerous for
them.”  Congressional Pushback  After a stop in  Abu Dhabi  yesterday, Kerry flew back to
Washington to brief lawmakers and try to head off further
congressional penalties that Obama’s administration says could
scuttle an accord.  The deal weighed in Geneva offered Iran a temporary easing
of sanctions on petrochemicals, gold and auto trade and some
access to frozen assets, according to diplomats who asked not to
be identified because they weren’t authorized to speak.  Zarif told reporters yesterday that differences among the
parties were to be expected, yet he said he was pleased that all
were “on the same wavelength” and “can build on and move
forward” from the latest talks.  In a separate briefing, Zarif declined to fault the French
foreign minister for raising the issue of the plutonium reactor
or obstructing a deal.  “We were discussing nuclear issues and for a country to
bring up heavy water is not strange,” Zarif said. “We don’t
want anyone to think we are after nuclear weapons.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Geneva at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  