-- Iraq, Angola See No Need for OPEC to Alter Crude Output Target
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k ,   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i   a n d   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2013-11-10T13:41:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-10/iraq-angola-see-no-need-for-opec-to-alter-crude-output-target.html
OPEC, which produces about 40
percent of the world’s oil, will probably keep its crude oil
output target unchanged at its next meeting, according to oil
ministers from member states  Iraq  and  Angola .  Iraqi Oil Minister Abdul Kareem al-Luaibi and Angola’s Jose Maria De Vasconcelos said they don’t see the need for the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to alter its
collective production target of 30 million barrels a day because
current oil-price levels are satisfactory.  The “situation is good” as long as  oil prices  are above
$100 per barrel, De Vasconcelos said in an interview in  Abu
Dhabi  today. He said they are monitoring developments in the
market.  OPEC, which set a collective production target of 30
million barrels a day in December 2011, will next meet to review
targets on Dec. 4 in Vienna. OPEC’s members are Algeria, Angola,
 Ecuador , Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar,  Saudi
Arabia , the United Arab Emirates and Venezuela.  Iraq, OPEC’s second-largest producer, sees a stable world
market with demand looking good, according to al-Luaibi, who
said he is “happy” with prices at current levels. Brent
futures, the benchmark for more than half the world’s crude,
closed at $105.12 in London trading on Nov. 8.  “Keeping the current production ceiling is a wise decision
to take as supply from outside of OPEC is expected to grow next
year on higher output from North American shale deposits,” Said al-Shaikh, the chief economist of  National Commercial Bank ,
Saudi Arabia’s largest lender by asset, said today by phone from
Jeddah.  ‘Reasonable Target’  “Global demand is not expected to be very high, so 30
million barrels seems a very reasonable target,” said al-Shaikh, who is a member of the energy committee at the Kingdom’s
Shura Council, a body that advises the government on setting its
policies.  The need for crude from OPEC will fall by 1.1 million
barrels a day to 29.2 million barrels a day between 2013 and
2018 as North America may triple output of tight oil from shale
formations, OPEC said in its annual World Oil Outlook on Nov. 7.  Kuwait  also expects the group to keep its crude oil output
target unchanged at its next meeting, Reuters reported
yesterday, citing the country’s oil minister, Mustafa al-Shemali.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ;
Maher Chmaytelli in Dubai at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net ;
Wael Mahdi in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  