-- Kenya Power Plans Eurobond to Reduce Exposure to Shilling
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2013-11-11T12:44:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-10/kenya-power-plans-eurobond-sale-to-reduce-exposure-to-shilling.html
Kenya Power Ltd., the country’s sole
electricity distributor, is considering selling Eurobonds to
help fund its expansion plans and reduce its exposure to the
domestic currency, Acting Managing Director Ben Chumo said.  The company, based in Nairobi, plans to start the process
of obtaining a  credit rating  after its annual shareholder
meeting on Nov. 29, Chumo said in an interview at his office in
the Kenyan capital on Nov. 6. A sale of Eurobonds will probably
take place “at the beginning of next year,” he said.  “It will be very limiting for us to focus on local
currency,” Chumo said. “Forex will be the option that we will
go for.”  Kenya Power will spend $700 million by 2017 building
electricity substations and transmission lines as the government
embarks on a plan to more than quadruple power output in that
period. Power generation is set to increase by more than 5,000
megawatts in four years, compared with current capacity of about
1,700 megawatts.  Last week, ARM Cement Ltd., the country’s second-biggest
cement producer, said it’s considering selling Eurobonds to fund
its $300 million expansion program.  Kenya ’s government plans to
offer as much as $2 billion of Eurobonds in January to finance
infrastructure programs in Kenya.  Kenya Electricity Generating Co., the state-controlled
power producer, plans to raise $1.65 billion by selling stock to
existing shareholders, which will more than quadruple its number
of shares in issue. The company needs financing to triple
electricity output to 3,379 megawatts.  Capital Expenditure  Kenya is  East Africa ’s biggest economy. The government is
investing in infrastructure as it seeks to transform country
into a middle-income nation by 2030.  Three quarters of the funding for Kenya Power’s future
projects will come from outside the company, while the rest will
be financed through revenue, Chumo said. The bulk of external
funding will be provided by multilateral lenders such as the
 World Bank , he said.  Kenya Power’s capital expenditure in the 12 months through
June was 40 billion shillings ($467 million), compared with 26
billion shillings a year earlier, it said Oct. 11.  During the period, borrowings increased to 39.9 billion
shillings from 21.5 billion shillings a year earlier, according
to the company’s annual report. New borrowings include loans
from the International Finance Corp., the local unit of
Citigroup Inc., Equity Bank Ltd.,  Standard Chartered Bank of
Kenya Ltd.  and  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR)   Shares in Kenya Power gained 0.7 percent to 14.90 shillings
by the 3 p.m. close in Nairobi, the highest since Sept. 16 and
paring their decline to 13 percent this year. Kenya’s FTSE NSE
25-Share Index has advanced 37 percent in 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  