-- Kenya to Use $2 Billion Eurobond Proceeds as Growth Catalyst
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2013-11-11T12:22:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-10/kenya-to-use-2-billion-eurobond-proceeds-as-growth-springboard.html
Kenya  will use the sale of as much
as $2 billion of Eurobonds to upgrade the country’s crumbling
infrastructure so it’s able to handle the demands of an
expanding economy, Treasury Secretary Henry Rotich said.  The securities will probably have a maturity of 10 years
and be sold within the first two weeks of January, Rotich said
in an interview on Nov. 7 in the capital, Nairobi. Kenya may pay
as much as 8 percent for the planned sovereign debt, which at
the maximum amount will match Africa’s biggest foreign-currency
issue by  South Africa , according to Morten Groth at  Jyske Bank
A/S (JYSK)  and  Kevin Daly  at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc.  “We have massive infrastructure plans with key
transformative projects we need to invest in now to take our
growth to a higher level,” Rotich said.  Kenya’s relative stability in a troubled region has led
companies including  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  to set up
regional bases in Nairobi. While a deadly attack by Islamist
militants on a shopping mall in the city in September threatened
inflows from tourism and foreign investment, the government has
maintained its forecast for economic growth of 5.5 percent to 6
percent this year from 4.6 percent in 2012.  The East African nation, the world’s largest exporter of
black tea, targets more than doubling economic growth to 10
percent annually as it strives to create 1 million jobs a year
and attain the status of middle-income nation by 2030.  African Eurobonds  Rwanda in April became the first East African nation to
sell a Eurobond, raising $400 million of 10-year notes at a rate
of 6.92 percent. In July,  Nigeria  in West  Africa  sold $500
million of similar-maturity securities at a yield of 6.60
percent.  One of Kenya’s most pressing needs is to find at least $2.1
billion a year to finance an  investment gap  for infrastructure
projects including development of trade-boosting roads and ports
and electricity projects that will power businesses, according
to the  African Development Bank .  After paying off a $600 million syndicated loan obtained by
the government last year, the bulk of the remaining Eurobond
funds will go toward energy projects including drilling for
geothermal steam and expanding the power-transmission network,
Rotich said. The government estimates it will take investment of
$15 billion to produce an additional 5,500 megawatts by 2017,
adding to existing installed capacity of 1,700 megawatts.  The bond proceeds will also help build a standard-gauge
railway from Nairobi to the border of neighboring  Uganda , and
lay roads in the country’s north.  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  and  Africa Oil
Corp. (AOI)  are developing the first crude finds in Kenya’s northwest.  Geothermal Development  “We have opened up the geothermal energy sector to the
private sector, but we have to take the initial risk of drilling
the steam,” Rotich said. Road and rail-link “projects also
have a regional dimension, and we are working with our neighbors
that are landlocked,” he said.  Kenya expects to sign an agreement for JPMorgan Chase & Co.
to be hired as lead arranger for the Eurobond by next week, he
said. JPMorgan may decide to seek co-arrangers, he said.  The debt sale is intended to establish benchmark pricing
for future international offerings by public and private
borrowers, according to the  Finance Ministry . ARM Cement Ltd.,
Kenya’s second-largest maker of the building material, plans to
follow the government’s Eurobond issuance with its own sale to
help fund a $300 million expansion program. Kenya Power Ltd.,
the country’s only power distributor, may also offer Eurobonds.  Credit Rating  Kenya’s long-term, foreign currency debt has been assigned
a B+ rating by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings, four levels
below investment grade and on par with  Cape Verde . It has the
equivalent B1 rating from Moody’s Investors Service.  The shilling depreciated for the fourth consecutive day,
declining less than 0.1 percent to 85.72 per dollar by 3:10 p.m.
Nairobi, paring its advance this year to 0.4 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The country wants to change its relationship with the
 International Monetary Fund , after ending a three-year, $760
million extended credit facility with the lender in January, to
recognize Kenya is becoming an emerging market, said Rotich.  “We are reaching a level where the lending facilities at
the IMF are no longer suitable for us, because we are to
graduate to probably emerging market status,” Rotich said.  “At the same time we are still vulnerable to shocks that
affect our economy like oil price shocks, weather vagaries, et
cetera, so we want a program or engagement with the IMF that
continues to insulate us from any shocks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Nairobi at 
 dmalingha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  