-- Kerry Defends Role in Talks to Curb Iran’s Nuclear Program
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-11-10T17:24:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-10/kerry-defends-u-s-role-in-talks-to-curb-iran-s-nuclear-program.html
Secretary of State John Kerry
defended U.S. participation in global talks aimed at limiting
 Iran ’s nuclear program, in the face of criticism from members of
Congress and Israeli leaders who say negotiators should wait
until economic sanctions apply more pressure.  “We are not blind, and I don’t think we’re stupid,” Kerry
said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” today. “We have a pretty
strong sense of how to measure whether or not we are acting in
the interests of our country and of the globe, and particularly
of our allies like Israel and Gulf states and others in the
region.”  Iran and six other nations failed last week to reach a deal
limiting the Islamic Republic’s nuclear program, creating an
opening for opponents in  Israel , Saudi Arabia and Washington to
lobby against any agreement before negotiations resume. A next
round of talks has been scheduled to begin Nov. 20, the European
Union’s foreign policy chief, Catherine Ashton, said today.  The agreement that was weighed during talks in Geneva would
have offered Iran a temporary easing of the sanctions on
petrochemicals, gold and auto trade and some access to frozen
assets, according to diplomats who asked not to be identified
because they weren’t authorized to speak.  Kerry expressed confidence talks can achieve an agreement,
and said it’s more important to “get the right deal” rather
than rush. He also said the U.S. isn’t taking a military strike
off the table if Iran doesn’t agree to terms.  More Sanctions  U.S. lawmakers today said they intend to boost the pressure
on Iran. Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Bob Menendez said he will advance a package of added economic
sanctions against Iran that could be lifted if an “acceptable”
deal on the nation’s nuclear program is struck. He didn’t
specify what type of sanctions he would support.  He said further action would provide “insurance” to the
U.S. that fall-back penalties would be in place if Iran won’t
agree to conditions that the U.S. and its allies can approve.  “I look forward to working with my colleagues in the
Senate to move forward on a package that ultimately will send a
very clear message where we intend to be if the Iranians don’t
strike a deal to stop their nuclear weapons program,” Menendez,
a New Jersey Democrat, said on ABC’s “This Week.”  Republican View  Republicans in Congress also called today for further
action, in advance of a bipartisan meeting with Kerry this week
to discuss their concern.  Senator Lindsey Graham, a Republican from South Carolina,
said many lawmakers share his view “that sanctions and the
threat of military force is the only thing that’s going to bring
the Iranians to the table.”  Senator Bob Corker, a Tennessee Republican, said today he’s
concerned the U.S. is giving up needed leverage in talks by not
first allowing existing economic sanctions to have a greater
impact. He said he fears a “partial deal” that ends with the
talks being as unsuccessful as past efforts to curtail North
Korea’s nuclear program.  At the same time, Corker said it’s yet not clear whether
lawmakers will proceed with further sanctions because it would
take at least several months for any further U.S. actions to
have any impact on Iran’s economy.  “There are a lot of concerns about the approach,” Corker
said. “A lot of us want to see it resolved diplomatically. We
know the sanctions have gotten us here, but we’re worried we’re
dealing away our leverage.”  More Work Needed  French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius told reporters early
today that more work is needed on an Iran accord. He yesterday
raised concern that not enough restrictions had been imposed on
Iran’s partly-built Arak heavy-water reactor or the country’s
stockpiles of enriched uranium and capacity to make more.  Israel, Saudi Arabia and and some members of the U.S.
Congress have been lobbying against any deal that would allow
Iran to keep sensitive nuclear technologies and to press for new
sanctions. After a stop in Abu Dhabi later today, Kerry intends
to fly back to Washington to brief lawmakers and try to head off
further congressional penalties that President  Barack Obama ’s
administration says could scuttle an accord.  Dangerous Deal  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu today urged Obama
and other world leaders to reject any deal that doesn’t curb or
dismantle Iran’s ability to produce a nuclear weapon.  In phone calls with the heads of five of the six countries
negotiating a deal with Iran, “I told them that according to
the information reaching Israel, the apparent deal is bad and
dangerous,” Netanyahu said today in remarks broadcast from his
weekly cabinet meeting in  Jerusalem . “It is dangerous not just
for us, it is also dangerous for them.”  In an interview from Jerusalem today with CBS’s “Face the
Nation,” Netanyahu said Iran is becoming a “threshold nuclear
nation,” negotiating a plan in which it “gives practically
nothing and gets a hell of a lot.” He said lifting the
sanctions is like “putting a hole in your tire and letting all
the air out. Soon you have a flat tire.”  Former U.S. Defense Secretary Leon Panetta, who left the
Obama administration earlier with year, said today that he
understands Netanyahu’s skepticism. Any deal must be very
specific, Panetta said, and address such matters as what Iran
will do with the enriched fuel it already has and what it will
do with its heavy water reactor that could produce plutonium.  “Iran is a country that has promoted terrorism,” Panetta,
who was also CIA director, said on “Face the Nation.”
“They’ve had a hidden enrichment facility that we had to find
out about. So we’ve got to be skeptical and make sure that, even
with some kind of interim agreement, that we know what the next
steps are going to be in order to ensure that they really do
stand by their word.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in  Washington  at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in Washington at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  