-- Kospi Rally Leaves Brokers Behind as Profits Drop: Korea Markets
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h o
-- 2013-11-11T07:11:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-10/kospi-rally-leaves-brokers-behind-as-profits-drop-korea-markets.html
South Korean brokers are missing out
on a rally that sent the nation’s benchmark stock index to its
highest level since 2011, as slumping trading volumes contribute
to the weakest profits in eight years.  Samsung Securities Co. (016360) , the country’s biggest brokerage by
market capitalization, and five of its local peers are valued at
the lowest levels since at least 2007 after falling an average
of 15 percent in  Seoul  this year. Industry  earnings  have shrunk
to the smallest since the first half of 2005, while trading on
the  Korea Exchange (KOSPI)  fell to a six-year low, data compiled by
Bloomberg and the Financial Supervisory Service show.  South Korean securities firms have cut almost 2,000 jobs
and closed more than 10 percent of their branches as individuals
pull money from the stock market for the fifth-straight year.
Midas International Asset Management Ltd. and KTB Asset
Management Co. are avoiding the shares as growing competition
among 62 registered brokers adds to the pressure on profits.  “We’re not buying any brokerage stocks,” Heo Pil Seok,
the chief executive officer at Midas International, which
oversees about $6.4 billion, said by phone on Nov. 6. “I don’t
plan to hold any for the next 10 years or so, unless I see real
change like industry restructuring.”  The Kospi slipped 0.4 percent to 1,977.30 at the close in
Seoul, after falling 2.7 percent last week. Samsung Securities
dropped 0.2 percent to the lowest level since Oct. 10.  Daewoo
Securities (006800)  Co. retreated 0.4 percent in its eighth day of
declines, the longest stretch since February 2011.  Volumes Shrink  The benchmark index for  South Korea ’s $1.2 trillion stock
market had rallied 16 percent from this year’s low in June
through Oct. 30 as rising exports sent economic growth to the
fastest pace in almost two years.  Trading has declined even as stocks advanced. The 100-day
average value of shares changing hands on the South Korean
bourse dropped to about 4 trillion won ($3.8 billion) on Nov. 8,
within 0.5 percent of the lowest level since June 2007, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Individual investors, who account for about half of equity
trading, have pulled a net 4.3 trillion won from stocks this
year as the highest rental costs since at least 1986 and growing
household debt curb discretionary spending.  Competition among brokers has intensified after South
 Korea ’s National Pension Service, the nation’s biggest investor,
scrapped the minimum 0.15 percent fee it pays brokers in July,
saying they need to “write down” commissions. The fund had
about 410 trillion won of assets as of August.  Profit Slump  Earnings at domestic and foreign brokerages operating in
South Korea shrank to 565.2 billion won in the six months ended
June, about a third of the level reported two years earlier, FSS
data show. That was the smallest figure since the industry
posted a 294.9 billion won profit in the first half of 2005.
Earnings in the three months ended September were 132.4 billion
won, the FSS said today.  “Brokers have failed to showcase any kind of profit-making
measures for investors to dive in,” said Park Jae Hong, the
chief  money manager  at Brain Asset Management, which oversees
$4.2 billion from Seoul.  Samsung Securities is  valued  at about the same level as its
net assets, an 18 percent discount to the MSCI All-Country World
Financials Index, the biggest gap since February 2007. Daewoo
Securities, the second-largest brokerage by market value, has a
multiple of 0.8, while Woori Investment & Securities Co. trades
for 0.6 times book value, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Cost Cuts  Equity volumes may rebound by the first quarter of next
year as improving consumer and investor sentiment spurs South
Koreans to return to stocks, according to Barclays Plc.  The Bank of Korea’s gauge of  consumer confidence  rose in
October to the highest level since May 2012 and the won gained
4.5 percent versus the dollar in the past three months. The
nation’s 10-year note yield has increased 34 basis points, or
0.34 percentage point, to 3.51 percent this year.  “There’s a high chance that local individual investors
will come back,” Chanik Park, the Seoul-based head of Korea
equity research at Barclays, said by phone on Nov. 7.  The industry is also relying on costs cuts and new
investment-banking licenses to boost profits. Brokerages cut
more than 4 percent of staff in the year ended June as they shut
local branches, according to FSS data. Samsung Securities,
Daewoo Securities and three other brokerages won approval from
the Financial Services Commission to offer products including
loans on Oct. 30.  ‘Bad Memories’  Samsung Securities is counting on investment-banking
revenue and its prime brokerage business to help it get through
this “crisis” period, the company said in an e-mailed response
to questions from  Bloomberg News . Daewoo Securities said it’s
expanding in overseas markets, while  Woori Investment (005940)  declined
to comment before its planned earnings announcement on Nov. 14.  It will take time for new businesses to have a meaningful
impact on brokerage earnings, said Lee Jin Woo, a Seoul-based
 fund manager  at KTB Asset Management, which oversees about $6.7
billion. Banks are a better bet for investors seeking to benefit
from South Korea’s economic growth, Lee said.  Net income  at Samsung Securities will probably drop 45
percent this year and Daewoo Securities may post a 59 percent
decline, according to the average of analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  “I once had my hopes up,” Lee said by phone on Nov. 7.
“I only have bad memories when it comes to brokerage shares.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Cho in Seoul at 
 ccho28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  