-- Defending Champion Djokovic Faces Nadal for Title at ATP Finals
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-11-11T02:13:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-10/nadal-beats-federer-to-reach-final-of-season-ending-tennis-event.html
Defending champion  Novak Djokovic 
beat Stanislas Wawrinka to extend his winning run to 21 matches
and set up a title match with top-ranked  Rafael Nadal  at the ATP
World Tour Finals.  The Serb won 6-3, 6-3 last night after Nadal beat six-time
champion  Roger Federer  of Switzerland 7-5, 6-3 at the O2 arena
in London. The world’s top two-ranked players meet tonight to
decide the winner of the season-ending event in men’s tennis.  “We both had a great seasons, especially him,” Djokovic
said in a news conference. “This is the probably most
competitive tournament that we have after Grand Slams in our
sport, and we both want to crown this season in the best
possible way and end it with a title.”  The 27-year-old Nadal, who lost the 2010 final to Federer,
is seeking to win the tournament for the first time. His second
round-robin victory at the O2 last week meant he kept the No. 1
ranking he took from Djokovic last month. It will be the third
time Nadal, who missed parts of the last few seasons because of
injuries, has finished the year as the top-ranked player.  “This tournament is special and I never had the chance to
win here,” Nadal told reporters. “So will be great if any year
I have the chance to finish with a victory. I need to play my
best match to have a chance.”  Nadal arrived in  London  with a career-best record of 71-6
for the season. His 10 tournament victories this year include
Grand Slam titles at the French and U.S. Opens that lifted his
tally of majors to 13, four behind Federer’s career record.  39th Meeting  Nadal and Djokovic, who meet for the 39th time today, have
gone through the eight-man season finale unbeaten, with the
Spaniard dropping one set and the Serb three. Djokovic hasn’t
lost since his U.S. Open final defeat by Nadal in September.  Nadal has won 22 of their  previous meetings , although the
26-year-old Djokovic has won five of the last seven times
they’ve played on hard courts, the surface used in London.  Second-seeded Djokovic, who began 2013 as the top-ranked
player, took the first set against Wawrinka last night and broke
serve for a third time in the opening game of the second.
Djokovic never allowed his Swiss opponent back into the match,
securing another break to wrap up the win.  “I hope that I can carry today’s performance into Monday’s
match because this was the best match I had so far this week,”
added Djokovic. “I felt great on the court.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  