-- New York City Seeks to Have Stop-Frisk Order Thrown Out
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H y t h a
-- 2013-11-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-10/new-york-city-seeks-to-have-stop-frisk-order-thrown-out.html
New York  City asked a federal
appeals court to vacate a ruling that the stop-and-frisk tactics
of its police department are unconstitutional.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New York earlier delayed
enforcement of U.S. District  Judge Shira Scheindlin’s order for
appointment of an independent monitor to oversee changes in
police practices. The court said Scheindlin appeared to be
biased, and took the extraordinary step of removing her from the
case.  The city, in a filing yesterday, said the appeals court
should vacate the remedies Scheindlin ordered because they
“continue unfairly and improperly to cloud the public’s
perception” of the New York Police Department.  The appeals court cited Schiendlin’s comments in at least
three media interviews while her decision was pending, as well
as her statements to attorneys in a case involving the NYPD’s
tactics that was brought by some of the same lawyers involved in
the stop-and-frisk case.  Scheindlin told the lawyers she could accept a later suit
as related, which she did when it was filed. That allowed her to
improperly steer the new case about NYPD practices to her
docket, the appeals court said. The appeals panel said its
decision shouldn’t be construed as a comment on the merits of
the case.  Stop-and-frisk searches were a focal point of the campaign
to succeed Mayor  Michael Bloomberg . Bloomberg is the founder and
majority owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News .
Mayor-elect Bill de Blasio, a Democrat, has criticized the
practice.  Clock Running  “With the clock running out, this rushed motion is a
transparent attempt by the Bloomberg administration to erase the
trial court’s findings of discriminatory and unlawful stops
before the incoming de Blasio administration can withdraw the
pending appeal,” Christopher Dunn, a lawyer for the New York
Civil Liberties Union representing the plaintiffs, said in an e-mail. “We will vigorously contest the city’s effort to distort
the legal process to serve its political purposes.”  Scheindlin is challenging her removal from the litigation
by the appeals court. Her ruling followed a nine-week nonjury
trial that ended May 20.  In that case, four black men sued the city alleging they
had been stopped and questioned or frisked by police without
reasonable suspicion in violation of their constitutional
rights. Police have made more than 4 million such stops in the
past nine years, the men alleged. At least 80 percent of the
people stopped were black or Latino, according to court papers.  De Blasio said he was “extremely disappointed” when the
appeals court put Scheindlin’s order on hold.  “We shouldn’t have to wait for reforms that both keep our
communities safe and obey the Constitution,” de Blasio said
then. “We have to end the overuse of stop and frisk -- and any
delay only means a continued and unnecessary rift between our
police and the people they protect.”  The appeal cases are Ligon v. City of New York, 13-3442,
and Floyd v. City of New York, 13-3461, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit ( Manhattan ). The lower-court cases are
Floyd v. City of New York, 08-cv-01034; Ligon v. City of New
York 12-cv-02274, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Hytha in  San Francisco  at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  