-- Nigeria Postpones Budget Speech That Seeks Spending Curbs
-- B y   D a n i e l   M a g n o w s k i
-- 2013-11-11T15:33:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-10/nigeria-plans-budget-curbs-amid-fear-of-spending-blowout.html
Nigeria ’s parliament postponed
President  Goodluck Jonathan ’s budget speech in which he’s
expected to propose spending limits as revenue falls in  Africa ’s
largest oil producer.  The presentation will be made on Nov. 19 instead of
tomorrow, Enyinnaya Abaribe, chairman of the Senate Committee on
Information and Media, said in a phone interview today. The
budget announcement has been postponed because parliament has
not yet approved the spending plan upon which it will be based
and some lawmakers are attending a conference away from the
legislature, he said.  Investors are watching Jonathan’s budget for signs that
spending will soar in a pre-election year as it did before the
2011 presidential vote, when it climbed 17 percent. Jonathan,
55, signaled his intent to cut planned expenditure by 10 percent
next year to 4.5 trillion naira ($28 billion) as crude output
missed targets, according to a medium-term spending plan
released on Sept. 18.  “The one the government will present will be a relatively
tight, well thought-out budget, but when the electoral process
really ramps up in the second half of next year, there could be
supplementary budgets for political spending”,  David Cowan ,
Africa economist at Citigroup Inc. in London, said in a phone
interview. “That’s key to understanding the fiscal process”.  Jonathan, who has not yet said whether he plans to stand
for re-election, was voted into office in 2011 on a platform of
boosting economic growth by improving the country’s electricity-generating and oil-refining capacity.  ‘Tight Budget’  Lower oil revenue and the risk of overspending is putting
pressure on the currency, which the central bank aims to keep
stable within a range of 3 percent around 155 against the
dollar. The naira has dropped 1.6 percent versus the U.S.
currency this year to trade at 159 on the  interbank market  as of
4 p.m. in Lagos.  Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, has pushed to curb
spending on government salaries to keep the budget deficit under
control. The medium-term plan estimates a fiscal shortfall of
1.9 percent of gross domestic product in 2014, little changed
from 1.85 percent projected for this year. The median estimate
of seven economists surveyed by Bloomberg is for the deficit to
widen to 2.3 percent next year from 2.2 percent.  If the numbers in the spending plan are accurate, “it’s
looking like a very tight budget,”  Charles Robertson , global
chief economist at  Renaissance Capital  in London, said in a
phone interview. “It’s conservative on spending, it’s
conservative on the deficit. It’s a budget to win the trust of
investors ahead of the election in 2015.”  Oil Savings  Okonjo-Iweala said on Oct. 31 that theft of crude as well
as output interruptions in the country’s Niger River delta oil
heartland may result this year in the government’s proceeds from
oil falling as much as $12 billion below budget estimates.  Africa’s most populous country, home to more people than
France and  Germany  combined, relies on crude exports for about
80 percent of government revenue and 95 percent of foreign-currency earnings.  The government has run down its oil savings in the Excess
Crude Account to plug the revenue shortfall. The account had a
balance of just under $5 billion, down from about $9 billion at
the beginning of the year, Okonjo-Iweala said last month.  “The great challenge now is that the fiscal buffers are
not as strong as they would be because of the revenue
shortfall,” Central Bank of Nigeria Governor Lamido Sanusi said
in an interview on Nov. 1. “If there are any adverse external
developments that would feed into this weak revenue profile and
put pressure on exchange rates.”  African Peers  The ruling People’s  Democratic Party , or PDP, which has won
all elections held since Nigeria ended military rule in 1999,
faces its sternest challenge as the 2015 vote approaches. The
nation’s four main opposition parties merged this year in order
to take on Jonathan, while some senior PDP figures quit the
party to form their own group.  Nigeria is still well-placed relative to its emerging-market African peers if the budget deficit deteriorates,
according to Cowan.  “Even if the budget slips next year, say from a deficit of
2.2-2.5 percent of GDP to 3.5 or 4 percent, this is still
relatively slim compared with Ghana, Kenya and  Zambia ,” he
said.  Ghana is forecasting a  budget deficit  of 9.2 percent of GDP
this year, its Vice President Kwesi Amissah-Arthur said last
month, while both Kenyan and Zambian budget deficits exceed 5
percent.  Oil Forecasts  The medium-term spending plan projects oil output of 2.39
million barrels a day for 2014, compared with 2.53 million
barrels this year. Actual production this year has fluctuated
between 1.8 million and 2.2 million barrels a day, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “What we’d hope for is a more realistic projection for oil
production,” Giulia Pellegrini, sub-Saharan Africa economist at
JPMorgan in London, said in an interview. “Clearly 2.5 million
barrels a day is unrealistic. 2.3 million would be more
realistic, but it depends on the government continuing efforts
against oil theft, and actually realizing some victories on that
score.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Magnowski in  London  at 
 dmagnowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  