-- Moncler Looks Beyond Slopes to Repeat Cucinelli IPO Success
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2013-11-11T16:40:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-10/moncler-looks-beyond-ski-slopes-to-repeat-cucinelli-ipo-success.html
Moncler’s $1,220 quilted polyester
 jackets  have been a hit with wealthy skiers for decades. Whether
the luxury clothier can prove as popular with investors this
week may depend on attracting more non-Alpine customers.  Moncler, which today starts investor presentations for an
initial public offering in Milan, gets about three-quarters of
sales from winter apparel, a reliance that makes it a riskier
investment proposition than peers like  Brunello Cucinelli SpA (BC) ,
according to Rahul Sharma, managing director of Neev Capital, a
London-based consulting company.  “It’s inherently risky,” Sharma said of Moncler’s
dependence on cold-weather clothing. “In the summer, there’s
nothing to really go into their boutiques for.”  Moncler is seeking to repeat the IPO success of Cucinelli,
the maker of $3,195 cashmere cardigans, and  Salvatore Ferragamo
SpA (SFER) , which sells $675 patent-leather platform heels. Shares in
both companies have about tripled since they were listed in
Milan in 2012 and 2011, respectively, encouraging Moncler’s
owners to make a second attempt at an IPO in as many years.  Moncler, which aborted its 2011 listing in favor of a sale
to French private-equity firm  Eurazeo SA (RF) , plans to offer a 25
percent to 30 percent stake to the public, according to Chairman
Remo Ruffini. The IPO may raise as much as 1 billion euros, a
person familiar with the matter has said, making it  Italy ’s
largest since Enel Green Power SpA sold 2.5 billion euros ($3.3
billion) of stock in November 2010.  Lacking Identity  Without a broader product range, Moncler may be a tougher
sell than its peers. The narrowness of the brand -- Moncler has
sold mostly skiwear since being founded in a French Alpine town
in 1952 -- means there’s a greater risk of the label going out
of fashion, said  Luca Solca , an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas.  “If Moncler does not manage to get outside of this core
category meaningfully, and continues to rely on its core product
to drive growth, the consequence could be trivialization,” said
Solca, who covers the European  luxury-goods  industry.  Ruffini is aware of the dangers. A decade ago, Moncler had
slid from a maker of the must-have jacket that the chairman and
his friends wore on wintry days as teenagers to a has-been label
lacking an identity, he said in an interview in Paris.  He re-engineered the “piumino” jacket, originally
designed for the sub-zero climes of the Himalayas, to be less
bulky and collaborated with designers such as Junya Watanabe and
French fashion house  Balenciaga. (KER)  Ruffini also added runway
collections and opened Moncler shops, winning customers from the
slopes of Gstaad to the streets of Ginza.  Snakeskin Dresses  “I didn’t have a final customer in mind,” Ruffini said.
“I wanted to make a jacket that was as good for a kid on a
snowboard as a woman going to La Scala.”  Looking ahead, the executive plans to capture a larger
slice of the $101 billion designer clothing market, a strategy
he said may include acquisitions. Moncler will enlarge its
selection of $995 boots and $495 wool and acetate sweaters,
while expanding its collection of $200 polo shirts and other
summer apparel “without betraying the brand,” Ruffini said.  For spring 2014, Moncler will offer snakeskin dresses and
silk jodhpurs under its Gamme Rouge line.  “Opening stores around the world and having a product that
can appeal to clients in different markets helps diversify
risk,” said Ruffini, who bought control of Moncler in 2003 and
still owns 32 percent of the company. Eurazeo has a 32.3 percent
equity interest, while Carlyle Group Inc. holds 17.8 percent.  Dilution Risk  The skiwear maker has about 100 of its own outlets and also
distributes its products in department stores as well as online.
It plans to open about 20 stores a year, including in  Russia ,
the Americas and  Asia , according to Ruffini.  The expansion is aimed at maintaining growth that’s
outpacing rivals -- even Cucinelli. Sales rose 35 percent to 489
million euros in 2012, while  revenue  at Florence, Italy based
Cucinelli increased 15 percent to 279 million euros.  Cucinelli  shares  rose 1.2 percent to 23.65 euros at the
close in Milan, compared with the IPO price of 7.75 euros. The
company is due to report third-quarter earnings tomorrow.  Upscale clothiers are benefiting as luxury makers from
 Louis Vuitton  to Gucci retrench from apparel amid slowing sales.
 Prada SpA, (1913)  whose down ski jackets were a must-have a decade ago,
got 17 percent of sales from clothing in 2012 versus 20 percent
in 2011. Meanwhile, high-end fashion is outperforming less-expensive alternatives, advisory services firm Bain & Co. says.  Moncler should follow Burberry Group Plc, which has
diversified its product range and pricing without diluting its
brand, according to Fflur Roberts, head of luxury goods at
researcher Euromonitor International.  “Moving into footwear would probably be very successful or
more accessories or even clothing or apparel in general,”
Roberts said. Should Moncler fail to diversify “there is a risk
that people will get bored of just having their jackets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  