-- Most Read on Bloomberg: Twitter, SAC, Pimco Wager, Payrolls Jump
-- B y   A u d r e y   B a r k e r
-- 2013-11-10T07:53:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-10/most-read-on-bloomberg-twitter-sac-pimco-wager-payrolls-jump.html
The following list comprises the
most-read  Bloomberg News  reports from the past week.  STORIES  1. Twitter Surges in Trading Debut After $1.82 Billion IPO  Nov. 7 (Bloomberg) -- Twitter Inc. jumped 73 percent in its
trading debut, as investors paid a premium for its promises of
fast growth.  2. SAC Agrees to Plead Guilty to Settle Insider-Trading Case  Nov. 5 (Bloomberg) -- Billionaire  Steven A. Cohen ’s SAC
Capital Advisors LP, the hedge fund accused of fostering a
culture of rampant insider trading, has agreed to plead guilty
Nov. 8 to securities fraud and  wire fraud , pay a record $1.8
billion and shutter its investment advisory business.  3. Pimco Said to Wager $10 Billion in Swaps: Credit Markets  Nov. 8 (Bloomberg) -- Pacific Investment Management Co. is
wagering at least $10 billion in the credit-default swaps market
that U.S. corporate bonds will gain as the  Federal Reserve 
extends unprecedented stimulus into 2014, according to traders
and investors.  4. Payrolls Jumped 204,000 as U.S. Economy Weathered Shutdown  Nov. 8 (Bloomberg) -- American employers added more workers
to payrolls in October than forecast by economists, betting that
the world’s largest economy would weather the impact of the
federal government shutdown.  5. U.S. Stocks Decline on Fed Bets as Twitter Surges; Euro
Weakens  Nov. 7 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. stocks and commodities slid as
faster economic growth spurred concern the Federal Reserve will
scale back stimulus sooner than expected, while Twitter Inc.
surged in its trading debut. The euro fell, while the region’s
bonds rose, as the  European Central Bank  cut interest rates.  6. NFL Player With Elite College Degree Became Bullying Target  Nov. 5 (Bloomberg) -- A degree from an elite academic
school can make a player a magnet for bullying from teammates in
the  National Football League , according to a former Harvard
University linebacker who spent seven seasons in the NFL.  7. ECB Reduces Key Rate to Record Low to Fight Deflation Risk  Nov. 7 (Bloomberg) -- The European Central Bank cut its
benchmark  interest rate  to a record low after a drop in
inflation to the slowest pace in four years threatened its
mission to keep prices stable.  8. Goldman Sachs to BofA Are Said to Trade With SAC After Plea
Deal  Nov. 5 (Bloomberg) -- Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Bank of America Corp. are among Wall Street
firms still catering to SAC Capital Advisors LP after the hedge
fund agreed to plead guilty to  insider trading  charges.  9. BlackBerry’s $4.7 Billion Deal Collapses, Prompting Shakeup  Nov. 4 (Bloomberg) -- BlackBerry Ltd., coping with the
collapse of a $4.7 billion buyout by Fairfax Financial Holdings
Ltd., will raise $1 billion in convertible bonds and seek a new
chief executive officer for the struggling company.  10. Credit Suisse Said to Cut 50 Jobs in New York Fixed Income  Nov. 5 (Bloomberg) -- Credit Suisse Group AG, the second-biggest Swiss bank, plans to eliminate about 50 jobs in its
fixed-income department in New York, two people with knowledge
of the matter said.  COLUMNS  1. Drunk on Debt, U.S. Tells Teetotaler to Sober Up: Caroline
Baum  Nov. 7 (Bloomberg) -- It seems almost laughable for a
country that can’t keep its government up and running to
criticize other nations, but that’s what the  U.S. Treasury  did
last week in its semiannual report on International Economic and
Exchange Rate Policies.  2. Who Will Trade With SAC Capital Now?: Jonathan Weil  Nov. 4 (Bloomberg) -- One of the first people I’ll want to
hear from now that SAC Capital Advisors LP has agreed to plead
guilty to  securities fraud  is Gary Cohn, the president and chief
operating officer of Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  3. Dan Loeb Helped Himself, Not Yahoo: William D. Cohan  Nov. 6 (Bloomberg) -- Dan Loeb, the billionaire founder and
principal owner of Third Point LLC, the $14 billion activist
hedge fund, has made about $1 billion for himself and his
investors from a two-year crusade to increase Yahoo! Inc.’s
stock price. He’s been extraordinarily successful; the shares
trade for about $33 these days, up from about $13.50 when Loeb
started buying them in September 2011.  4. India Shouldn’t Buy Line Japan Offers:  Pankaj Mishra   Nov. 4 (Bloomberg) -- An obsession with nuclear power makes
many political elites secretive, ruthless and delusional, even
as their cherished projects threaten millions of people with
disaster. But the egregious examples I have in mind here aren’t
Iran, Pakistan and North Korea. They are Japan and India, two
countries with democratic institutions.  5. Of Debt, Growth, Interest Rates and History: Carmen M.
Reinhart  Nov. 5 (Bloomberg) -- The blog of New York Times columnist
 Paul Krugman  recently featured a chart plotting the U.K.’s ratio
of government debt to gross domestic product against the nominal
yield on long-term  government bonds  from about 1700 to the
present.  MULTIMEDIA  1. Draghi Says Euro Area Risks ‘Prolonged’ Low Inflation  Nov. 7 (Bloomberg) -- European Central Bank President 
 Mario Draghi  speaks at his monthly news conference in Frankfurt
about the decision to cut the benchmark interest rate to a 
record low of 0.25 percent and the risk of low inflation in the
euro area.  2. Chicago 16-Year-Old Dodges Death Pursuing Dreams of NBA  Nov. 5 (Bloomberg) -- At 16, Edward Morrow is a rising 
basketball star at Chicago’s Simeon Career Academy, the South 
Side high school that produced guard  Derrick Rose  of the 
 National Basketball Association ’s  Chicago Bulls  and the No. 2 
college recruit last season,  Duke University ’s Jabari Parker.  3. Texans Coach Kubiak Collapses During Halftime of Game  Nov. 4 (Bloomberg) -- Houston Texans coach  Gary Kubiak  
collapses while leaving the field at halftime of the Texans’ 
27-24 loss to the  Indianapolis Colts  last night.   4. Dolphins Case ‘Above and Beyond’ Hazing Norm, Lee Says
(Audio)  Nov. 5 (Bloomberg) -- Eugene Lee, a National Football 
League player agent, talks with Bloomberg’s Eben Novy-Williams 
about allegations involving the harassment of Miami Dolphins 
offensive linesman Jonathan Martin by teammate Richie Incognito.  5. Cadillac’s Latest CTS Sedan Takes Aim at BMW 5 Series  Nov. 7 (Bloomberg) -- The 2014 Cadillac CTS luxury sedan 
is seen in a promotional video from General Motors Co.    To contact the reporter on this story:
Audrey Barker in New York at 
 abarker3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Mirabella at 
 amirabella@bloomberg.net  