-- Manchester United Revives Title Challenge by Beating Arsenal 1-0
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-11-11T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-10/tottenham-upset-1-0-by-newcastle-in-england-s-premier-league.html
Manchester United revived its
Premier League title defense with a 1-0 win over leader Arsenal
as Robin van Persie scored against his former team for the third
straight game.  The Dutch striker headed in Wayne Rooney’s corner kick in
the 27th minute at Old Trafford. In yesterday’s other matches,
Tottenham Hotspur lost 1-0 to Newcastle United and Manchester
City was upset 1-0 at Sunderland, which moved three points off
the bottom of the table. Swansea drew 3-3 at home with Stoke.  Manchester United’s win lifted the defending champion up to
fifth place in the standings, five points off the lead, as City
and Spurs stumbled. Defeat would have left the Red Devils 11
points adrift in the title race.  “We knew we’d have to win at all costs,” Rooney told Sky
Sports. “We defended really well and, thankfully, Robin got the
three points. It was a great effort from everyone.”  Arsenal has 25 points after 11 of 38 games, followed by
Liverpool (23), Southampton (22) and Chelsea (21). United,
Everton and Tottenham all have 20 points.  Arsenal, which beat Liverpool and Borussia Dortmund in its
most recent games, was hit by illness yesterday, with Per Mertesacker and Tomas Rosicky replaced by Thomas Vermaelen and
Mathieu Flamini.  Both defenses looked assured in the early stages before
United took the lead against a team seeking its first trophy
since 2005.  Off Guard  Van Persie made a run toward the near post, catching the
defense off guard as he sent a glancing header from Rooney’s
corner into the far corner of the net.  United’s Phil Jones was yellow-carded after a clash of
heads with Arsenal goalkeeper Wojciech Szczesny, who stayed on
the field after getting medical attention. United defender
Nemanja Vidic also sustained a head injury and was substituted
by Tom Cleverley, with Jones moving into defense.  Rooney had a chance to double United’s lead on the hour
mark, though dragged his left-foot shot just wide.  Arsenal came more into the game, and United defender Chris
Smalling had to deal with threats from Olivier Giroud and Kieran Gibbs. In the closing moments, Nicklas Bendtner was unable to
get a touch on Bacary Sagna’s cross in Arsenal’s last chance to
tie the game.  ‘Big Result’  “This was a big result for us,” said United manager David Moyes. “Arsenal have been in terrific form this season and we
had to play very well ourselves. In the end, our whole
determination, effort and good play helped us in the second half
when we were under more pressure.”  Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger said his team felt the effect
of its recent matches.  “We had to give a lot this week, Liverpool, Dortmund and
here today,” he said. “It’s difficult to lose the game. We
conceded a goal on a set-piece. In a big game, that made the
difference.”  Loic Remy went around Spurs goalkeeper Brad Friedel to
score for Newcastle in the 13th minute at White Hart Lane in
London before Tim Krul kept Tottenham out almost single-handed.  The visiting keeper made 14 saves in what he described as
“the highlight of my career,” and was mobbed by his teammates
at the end of the game.  Friedel was playing in place of Hugo Lloris, who was rested
after sustaining a head injury a week ago.  Bardsley’s Strike  Phil Bardsley got Sunderland’s goal against City in the
21st minute. He broke down the left and held off James Milner
before cutting back to send a right-foot shot into the net.  City put Sunderland under severe pressure at times. Sergio Aguero headed wide from close range and had a shot palmed away
by goalkeeper Vito Mannone as the Black Cats held on to send
City to its fourth league loss of the season, all on the road.  “I am concerned because we are losing too many points
away,” City manager Manuel Pellegrini told reporters. “That
makes it hard to fight for the Premier League.”  In Swansea, Jon Walters and Stephen Ireland gave Stoke a 2-0 lead by half time. Swansea came back with goals by Wilfried
Bony and Nathan Dyer and went ahead on Bony’s second goal, only
for Charlie Adam to tie the game with a stoppage-time penalty.  Two days ago, Liverpool routed Fulham 4-0, Chelsea drew 2-2
with West Bromwich Albion and Crystal Palace tied 0-0 with
Everton. Southampton beat Hull 4-1, West Ham United lost 3-1 at
Norwich, and Aston Villa defeated Cardiff 2-0.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  