-- Partner Jumps Most in Decade on Hot Network Pact: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-11-10T14:51:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-10/partner-jumps-most-in-decade-on-hot-network-pact-tel-aviv-mover.html
Partner Communications Co. (PTNR)  surged
the most in more than 10 years in  Tel Aviv  after Israel’s
second-largest mobile phone provider announced a network pact
with the wireless unit of Hot Telecommunication System Ltd.  Shares (CEL)  of the carrier with the second-most subscribers,
jumped 9.3 percent, the most since May 2003, to 31.68 shekels at
the close in Tel Aviv. The Rosh Ha’Ayin, Israel-based company
was the biggest percentage gainer on the benchmark  TA-25 Index (TA-25) ,
which added 0.2 percent.  The company said it’s entered a 15-year network-sharing
arrangement with cellular operator Hot Mobile for a joint
venture to operate and develop a shared cellular network.
Partner’s U.S. traded shares surged 8.2 percent to $8.46 on Nov.
8 on the news.  “The agreement should improve the competitive and cost
position of Partner and Hot Mobile in the mid-long term,”  Roni Biron, a Tel Aviv-based analyst for  UBS AG (UBSN) , said in an e-mailed
note today.  Partner’s shares were among the  worst performers on the 
benchmark gauge last year as new wireless operators, including
Hot Mobile and Golan Telecom Ltd., entered the market in May
2012. The number-two carrier, which saw profits drop in the last
three quarters, is cutting jobs to reduces its costs and seeking
to enter other segments to boost revenue, Chief Executive
Officer Haim Romano said Aug. 14.  The accord was praised by the Minister of Communications
Gilad Erdan as benefiting consumers and ensuring carriers make
“full use of the radio spectrum,” according to a text message
sent to journalists.  Scailex Corp. surged 22 percent to 5.182 shekels, the
highest since April 9. The company has a  15.7 percent stake  in
Partner, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bezeq Negative  The news is a “potential negative” for  Bezeq (BEZQ) , Biron said,
as Hot Mobile currently has a hosting agreement with its
Pelephone Communications Ltd. unit which expires at the end of
2014.  “Hot may shift to Partner earlier,” Biron wrote.
Pelephone’s current hosting agreement with Hot Mobile is
estimated to contribute around 200 million shekels a year in
revenues, “mostly incremental to the bottom line”.  Bezeq Israeli Telecommunication Corp.’s shares declined
4.7%, the most since Oct. 23, to 6.185 shekels, making them the
worst performers on the Tel Aviv gauge. Internet Gold-Golden
Lines Ltd., which has a stake in Bezeq via its B Communications
Ltd. unit, dropped 7.8 percent. B Communications, owner of a 31
percent stake in Bezeq, fell 5.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  