-- Philippine Stocks Seen Declining With Peso After Typhoon Haiyan
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-11-10T16:04:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-10/philippine-stocks-seen-declining-with-peso-after-typhoon-haiyan.html
Philippine stocks  are poised to
extend the longest losing streak since March and the peso may
weaken after Super Typhoon Haiyan killed an estimated 10,000
people and flooded islands, according to BDO Unibank Inc.  “The typhoon will have a negative impact on both the peso
and stocks,”  Jonathan Ravelas , the chief market strategist at
Manila-based BDO Unibank, the nation’s largest lender, said
yesterday. “This will be a big expense for the government and
the damage we have seen from reports will impact growth.”  The year’s most powerful cyclone knocked down buildings,
damaged crops and destroyed an airport. Though the government
was still assessing the cost of the disaster yesterday, the
economic impact may reach $14 billion, about $2 billion of which
will be insured, Jonathan Adams, a senior analyst at Bloomberg
Industries, wrote in a report citing Kinetic Analysis Corp.  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  has dropped for six
straight days to the lowest level since Oct. 1, as investors
anticipated the storm and weighed the likelihood that the U.S.
Federal Reserve will reduce bond purchases that have spurred
gains in emerging-market assets. The gauge is up 9.3 percent
this year.  The peso was little changed against the dollar last week,
leaving it 5.1 percent weaker versus the U.S. currency this
year.  Companies that sell discretionary  consumer goods  may get
hurt most as Filipinos limit their purchases to basics following
the typhoon, according to Alex Pomento, a Manila-based
strategist at Macquarie Group Ltd.  Construction Boost  “Spending will focus on essentials,” he said in an
interview yesterday.  Cement and construction-related shares will benefit as the
country looks to rebuild power, transport and communication
networks, Pomento said.  Holcim Philippines Inc. (HLCM) , the nation’s
biggest listed cement company by market value, has gained 0.9
percent in  Manila  trading this year, while smaller rival  Lafarge
Republic Inc. (LRI)  dropped 21 percent.  Megawide Construction Corp. (MWIDE) 
has retreated 25 percent.  Reconstruction efforts helped boost economic growth
following previous natural disasters, central bank Governor
Amando Tetangco said in an e-mailed reply to questions from
 Bloomberg News . Both monetary and fiscal policies can be
adjusted to respond to changes in the economy caused by the
disaster, he said.  Robinsons Debut  The Philippines made no announcement that financial markets
would be closed following the typhoon. Manila, the nation’s
financial hub, was outside the main path of the storm.  Robinsons Retail Holdings Inc. (RRHI) , the operator of
supermarkets and department stores controlled by billionaire
John Gokongwei, is due to start trading today after raising at
least $621 million in the country’s biggest initial public
offering.  Haiyan killed as many as 10,000 people in and around
Tacloban City, the capital of Leyte province, when it made
landfall Nov. 8, the  Associated Press  reported yesterday, citing
regional police chief Elmer Soria.  An additional 300 fatalities were confirmed on nearby Samar
island and 2,000 others were missing, the AP cited Leo Dacaynos
of Samar province’s disaster office as saying. More than 9
million Filipinos were affected by the storm, the government
said.  The Philippines was the nation most impacted by natural
disasters in 2012, with more than 2,000 deaths, according to the
Brussels-based Centre for Research on the Epidemiology of
Disasters. On Oct. 15, 222 people were killed in Visayas after a
7.2-magnitude earthquake.  “Both stocks and the peso are already weak,” Ravelas
said. “This is another nudge to push bulls off the cliff.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  