-- Robinsons Drops in Debut as Typhoon Hits Stocks: Southeast Asia
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-11-11T10:44:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-10/robinsons-ipo-discount-to-puregold-lures-buyers-southeast-asia.html
Robinsons Retail Holdings Inc. (RRHI) , the
largest Philippine initial public offering, retreated in its
Manila debut amid concern the devastation from Super Typhoon
Haiyan will weigh on  Southeast Asia ’s fastest-growing economy.  The operator of supermarkets and department stores fell 2.6
percent to 56.50 pesos at the close, after raising at least $621
million from investors. The Philippine Stock Exchange Index sank
1.4 percent, the most in six weeks, while rival  Puregold Price
Club Inc. (PGOLD)  was unchanged.  “Negative sentiment is hanging over the market,” Bach Johann Sebastian, a senior vice president at Robinsons, said at
the bourse today. “We expect the share price to improve as the
company expands and delivers on its promise.”  The year’s most powerful cyclone may have killed as many as
10,000 people as it flattened buildings and unleashed flooding.
The economic impact may reach $14 billion, according to Jonathan
Adams, a senior analyst at Bloomberg Industries, who cited
Kinetic Analysis Corp.  Money managers at  Metropolitan Bank & Trust Co. (MBT)  and Rizal
Commercial Banking Corp. bought Robinsons shares in the IPO on
expectations that household purchases in the nation of 106
million people will increase and the company’s valuation
discount versus Puregold may narrow.  Relative Value  The IPO price of 58 pesos per share valued the company at
22 times estimated 2014 profit, according toSebastian. Puregold
 trades  at 25 times the average of analysts’ earnings estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The stock wasn’t spared by the impact of the typhoon,”
said Allan Yu, the chief investment officer at Metropolitan Bank
& Trust, the nation’s third-largest money manager with $8.7
billion under management. Yu said he’s considering adding to
holdings after today’s retreat.  Robinsons’ shops in areas hit by the typhoon are operating,
except for its supermarket and department store in Tacloban,
Sebastian said today. The shut stores “won’t affect the company
that much,” he said.  Consumer companies may get a boost from purchases tied to
relief efforts, said  Jonathan Ravelas , the chief market
strategist at Manila-based BDO Unibank Inc., the largest listed
Philippine lender.  Consumption Outlook  The Philippine gauge had climbed 9.3 percent this year
through Nov. 8, versus a 5.7 percent drop in the MSCI  Emerging
Markets  Index. Foreign investors have bought a net $888 million
of Philippine shares since the start of 2013 through Nov. 8, the
fifth-straight year of inflows, as economic growth lifted
corporate profits to all-time highs and the nation won
investment-grade status from ratings companies.  Private consumption accounts for about 70 percent of the
Philippine economy, which joined  China  as the fastest-growing
country in  Asia  in the second quarter.  Philippine gross domestic product, which increased 7.5
percent in the three months to June, will probably expand 7
percent during the whole of 2013 and 6 percent next year, among
the five-fastest projected growth rates of 65  economies  tracked
by Bloomberg worldwide.  Disposable incomes in the  Philippines  may rise at a 5.4
percent compound annual rate from 2012 through 2017, versus 4.8
percent from 2008 to 2012, Robinsons said in its IPO prospectus,
citing the Economist Intelligence Unit. Sales at store-based
retailers are forecast to grow at a 7.7 percent rate, up from
3.9 percent.  Expansion Plans  Robinsons, the nation’s biggest IPO in dollar terms, plans
to spend more than 80 percent of the share-sale proceeds to
expand its store network. Half of the spending will go toward
building new supermarkets, Chief Financial Officer Diosdado Zapata said at an investor briefing in  Manila  on Oct. 14.  The company, controlled by Philippine billionaire John Gokongwei, plans to operate 1,400 shops by the end of next year
as it expands beyond Manila, Zapata said. Robinsons had 940
stores, from DIY shops to drugstores, at the end of June,
according to its IPO prospectus.  “I like the offer,” said Rico Gomez, head of the trust
trading division at Manila-based Rizal Commercial Banking Corp.
“There’s expectations among investors the stock will rally.”  Puregold, which operates supermarkets and hypermarkets, has
advanced 36 percent in Manila this year. The stock gained 260
percent since it began trading in October 2011, four times more
than the PSE index. Puregold had 192 stores at the end of June,
up from less than 80 when it raised about $194 million from its
IPO.  Fed Risk  Robinsons is unlikely to repeat the two-year returns of its
rival, said Metrobank’s Yu. The company may have less room for
expansion than Puregold, while the prospect of reduced monetary
stimulus in the U.S. is curbing investor demand for emerging-market equities, he said.  The Philippine stock  gauge  lost 15 percent since May 22,
when Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled the central bank’s
bond-buying program could be trimmed if the  U.S. economy  showed
a sustained recovery.  Robinsons’ sales of durable  consumer goods , including
electronics and apparel, make it more attractive than Puregold
for some investors, said  Jomar Lacson , an analyst at Campos
Lanuza & Co. in Manila. About 38 percent of Robinsons sales are
tied to discretionary consumer spending, according to Sebastian.  “Those who want to bet on the growth and changing spending
pattern caused by rising income will add Robinsons to their
holdings,” Lacson said. “Puregold doesn’t give a full
Philippine retail experience. It’s not exposed to spending on
 consumer durables .”  Discretionary purchases may double to 30 percent of
household spending from 15 percent in as little as five years if
the economy sustains growth near current levels, according to
Alex Pomento, a strategist at Macquarie Group Ltd. in Manila.  “With the expected shift in  consumer spending  patterns,
this segment becomes attractive,” Pomento said. “At the end of
the day, Robinsons is a good proxy to consumption. With a
discounted valuation to Puregold, the stock’s bias should be
upwards.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  