-- Send Syria’s Chemical Arms to Albania
-- B y   D a n   K a s z e t a
-- 2013-11-10T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-10/send-syria-s-chemical-arms-to-albania.html
So far, the effort to strip Syria of
its chemical weapons capacity has gone surprisingly well. In
difficult circumstances, the Organization for the Prohibition of
Chemical Weapons met a Nov. 1 deadline  for disabling  all the
country’s declared production facilities and assembly plants.  That, however, was always going to be the relatively easy
part. A competent inspector will readily find the critical
machinery for chemical weapons production, and with a
sledgehammer and drill can put it out of commission. Empty
artillery shells, rockets and spray tanks can be crushed by
driving over them. An artillery shell won’t work as intended if
you just bend it a bit.  It will be much harder to dispose of the chemical agents
themselves. After decades of denial, the Bashar al-Assad regime
has acknowledged an inventory of approximately 1,000 tons of
chemical warfare agents, seemingly stored in bulk. Eliminating
such a large stockpile will require creativity.  In the 1960s, the U.S. military got rid of chemical agents
by  dumping them into the ocean , but nobody’s going to sign off
on such an environmentally hazardous plan these days. After the
Gulf War, U.S. demolition crews used conventional explosives to
get rid of Iraqi chemical munitions at a place called
Khamisiyah, about 200 miles southeast of Baghdad. This may have
 exposed the workers to harm  and is still the source of
controversy.  Demilitarizing Arsenals  The generally accepted methods of destruction are
incineration or neutralization using chemical reactions to
produce less-toxic waste products. The U.S. and Russia have
invested billions of dollars constructing special facilities
employing these means in their decades-long  efforts  to
demilitarize enormous chemical weapons arsenals.  Some precursors in Syria’s stock may be industrial
chemicals, such as isopropyl alcohol, that could be repurposed,
but most of the 1,000 tons will have to be neutralized. Building
a factory in an active war zone seems unlikely. It’s hard to
imagine any company signing such a contract.  Moving the chemicals for destruction elsewhere is the only
real answer. But where? Neither the U.S. nor Russia makes sense.
U.S. laws make the import and transport of chemical warfare
agents problematic. If that could be finessed, vocal groups
representing residents near the demilitarization sites would
certainly raise objections.  Russia could probably take the chemicals, but getting them
there would be hard to negotiate. Given the quantities involved
and international restrictions on air transportation of
chemicals, shipping offers the most practical means of
transportation. However, Turkey might object to allowing the
stuff through the Dardanelles straits past its largest city,
Istanbul. Denmark and Sweden might not allow it into the Baltic
Sea.  The U.S. asked Norway to consider accepting some of the
agents for destruction there, but the  government declined ,
saying it lacked the necessary capacities.  One country, however, seems to have a ready-built facility
that could be used for this purpose: Albania. In late 2002, well
after it signed the  Chemical Weapons Convention , Albania made
the embarrassing discovery that it had 16 tons of chemical
warfare agents squirreled away in a bunker from the era of
Communist dictator Enver Hoxha. In subsequent years, the U.S.
government, through its Defense Threat Reduction Agency, spent
about $45 million building an incineration plant, which was
eventually moved to Qafemolle, Albania, to dispose of the
stores. By 2007, Albania had been declared free of its chemical
arms by the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical
Weapons.  Greater Good  Transporting Syria’s chemical arsenal to a restarted
Qafemolle plant would be a challenge, for legal and safety
reasons. The Chemical Weapons Convention prohibits the transfer
of chemical weapons, although presumably the OPCW could waive
this provision to serve a greater good. The U.S. has experience
in safely moving chemical agents. In Operation Steel Box in
1990, a much larger stockpile than Syria possesses was moved
from West Germany to Johnston Atoll, a U.S. territorial island
in the South Pacific, for disposal. The undertaking succeeded,
but it didn’t occur in a war zone.  If the goods could be removed from Syria safely, there are
still  obstacles to face  in Albania. It is a poor country. The
world would have to pay it well to accomplish this task.
Security and corruption are issues. Albania is a center for
smuggling and organized crime.  Nevertheless, the Qafemolle experience demonstrates that,
in principle, chemical munitions can be disarmed in Albania. It
might take many years for a facility built to burn 16 tons of
chemical agents to get through 1,000 tons. Yet the date of final
destruction isn’t as important as getting the material in the
hands of international inspectors and out of the war zone. That
makes Albania the least bad option for disposing of Syria’s
chemical weapons stores.  (Dan Kaszeta is a former officer in the U.S. Army Chemical
Corps and former member of the U.S. Secret Service now working
as an independent consultant. He has 22 years’ experience in the
field of chemical defense.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Dan Kaszeta at  info@strongpointsecurity.co.uk .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Lisa Beyer at   lbeyer3@bloomberg.net . 