-- Sina Bearish Bets Wane on Weibo Outlook: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-11-10T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-10/sina-bearish-bets-wane-on-weibo-outlook-china-overnight.html
Options traders are paying the least
in two months to protect against drops in  Sina Corp. (SINA) , owner of
China’s Twitter-like Weibo service, on speculation the social
media platform will become profitable this year.  Puts protecting against a 10 percent decline in Sina’s
shares cost 1.5 points less than calls betting on a rally of the
same magnitude last week, one-month data compiled by Bloomberg
showed. The price relationship known as skew was the lowest
since Sept. 13. Sina has rallied 51 percent this year and
reached a two-year high Oct. 18. The Bloomberg China-US Equity
Index of the most-traded Chinese stocks in the U.S. sank 2.1
percent last week.  Sina will probably report tomorrow that adjusted profit
jumped 87 percent in the third quarter, according to the average
projection of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Weibo’s
advertising revenue tripled to $30 million during the second
quarter, the company said on Aug. 12. Twitter Inc.’s $1.82
billion initial public offering last week signaled investors are
willing to wait for the microblogging service to post a profit.  “Sina’s Weibo should become profitable either in the third
or the fourth quarter,” Ming Zhao, an analyst at Beijing-based
86Research Ltd., said by phone on Nov. 8. “It would be a huge
positive for its stock.”  Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.,  China ’s biggest e-commerce
company, bought an 18 percent stake in Weibo in April for $586
million with an option to increase the holding to 30 percent.
Daily active users on Weibo rose 8.3 percent to 54 million in
the second quarter, Sina Chief Executive Officer Charles Chao
said on a conference call Aug. 12.  Revenue, Spending  Weibo spending in the second quarter exceeded revenue by
$11.6 million, Sina Chief Financial Officer Herman Yu said. The
gap will close in the fourth quarter as Alibaba helps boost ads
on the Weibo platform, Henry Guo, an analyst at ABR Investment
Strategy LLC, said by phone from San Francisco Nov. 8.  Shanghai-based Sina forecast in August revenue for July-September to be as much as $180 million, which would represent a
18 percent growth from a year earlier. Analysts  estimate  the
company to post adjusted net income of 32 cents per share on
average for the quarter, from 21 cents per share in the previous
three months.  Andy Yeung, a New York-based analyst at Oppenheimer & Co.,
said on Nov. 8 he expects Sina’s third-quarter sales and profit
to beat analysts’ estimates.  Puts, Calls  Sina’s skew, or the difference in put and call implied
volatility, fell from a nine-month high of 5.1 points reached
Oct. 15 to a negative 0.4 point Nov. 8. The stock dropped 7.7
percent last week to $76.04, the lowest level in three months.  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the solar-panel maker whose
China unit entered bankruptcy in March, tumbled 60 percent last
week on concern it may fail to pay back overseas bondholders.
Its ADRs slid to a six-month low of 53 cents.  The Wuxi, China-based company filed for a provisional
liquidation in  Cayman Islands  last week and asked for protection
in the U.S. The company, which said Aug. 14 it had about $1.8
billion in debt, plans for a debt-for-equity swap and the entry
of a strategic investor for its restructuring. China’s Shunfeng
Photovoltaic International Ltd. said in a Nov. 1 filing it
agreed to buy Suntech’s main unit for $492 million.  “The bankruptcy of the Cayman Islands unit reduces the
chances that overseas investors will be able to make a
meaningful claim on the company’s Chinese assets,” Jenny Chase,
head of solar analysis at researcher Bloomberg New Energy
Finance, said by e-mail Nov. 8.  SouFun Rallies  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , China’s biggest real-estate
information website, advanced 7.1 percent to $57.19, rallying
for a second week.  T.H. Capital LLC lifted its recommendation on SouFun’s ADRs
to buy from hold on Nov. 8 after the company reported better-than-estimated profit for the third quarter. Citigroup Inc.
raised its price estimate for SouFun by 12 percent to $80.3 on
the same day, reiterating a buy rating.  The  iShares China Large-Cap ETF , the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., sank 2.6 percent last week to
$36.84 in  New York . The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.5
percent to 1,770.61 in a fifth week of rallies.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  in  Hong Kong  dropped
2.7 percent last week to 10,390.73, while the  Shanghai Composite
Index (SHCOMP)  slumped 2 percent to a two-month low of 2,106.13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  