-- Sumitomo Mitsui Seen Raising Net Income Forecast With Mizuho
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2013-11-11T07:22:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-10/sumitomo-mitsui-seen-raising-annual-profit-forecast-with-mizuho.html
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) 
and  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  may raise their annual profit
forecasts this week as Japan’s economic and stock-market
revivals fuel loan growth and fee income.  Japan’s second- and third-largest lenders by market value
have already achieved 75 percent of their targets for the year
ending March 2014, according to analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg
News  before first-half earnings are reported this week. Analysts
at BNP Paribas SA, Barclays Plc and  Daiwa (8601)  Securities Group Inc.
say the Tokyo-based banks will raise their projections.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s campaign to end deflation
helped Japan stocks become the best performers in the developed
world this year, spurring banks’ sales of investment products
and boosting the value of their shareholdings. Lending at major
banks rose for an 11th month in October,  Bank of Japan  figures
showed today, as companies grow more optimistic about the
recovery of the world’s third-largest economy.  “Banks tend to be conservative when they forecast their
earnings,” Toyoki Sameshima, a Tokyo-based analyst at BNP
Paribas, said by telephone. “But this year, they will have to
revise up their earlier projections, given that they’ve come
this far.”  Sumitomo Mitsui  probably booked net income of 480 billion
yen ($4.9 billion) for the six months ended Sept. 30, the lender
said last month in a preliminary earnings statement. That’s 83
percent of the company’s 580 billion-yen full-year goal. At
Mizuho, which is under investigation for lending to crime
groups, interim profit was probably 378.5 billion yen, 76
percent of its 500 billion-yen annual forecast, according to the
average estimate of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  MUFG Lagging  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) , Japan’s largest bank,
will probably have net income of 465.5 billion yen for the first
half, or 61 percent of its 760 billion-yen full-year target,
lagging behind its smaller competitors, projections of six
analysts in a separate survey showed.  Sumitomo Mitsui is scheduled to announce earnings results
tomorrow and reports from the other two megabanks are due on
Nov. 14. Spokesmen for Sumitomo Mitsui and Mizuho declined to
comment on possible revisions to their profit forecasts.  Shares of Sumitomo Mitsui rose 2 percent to 4,770 yen at
the close in Tokyo today, extending this year’s advance to 53
percent, the best performance among the three megabanks.
Mitsubishi UFJ gained 0.8 percent and is up 33 percent in 2013.
Mizuho rose 1 percent and has advanced 32 percent this year,
trailing the benchmark Topix Index’s 38 percent increase.  Third Arrow  Investor enthusiasm waned in recent months, with the Topix
sliding about 7 percent from a May 22 peak amid skepticism over
whether Abe will succeed in pushing through policies to make
Japan more competitive -- the “third arrow” of his strategy
that includes fiscal and monetary stimulus.  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) 
and Daiwa, Japan’s biggest brokerages, last month posted lower
quarter-on-quarter profit as stock trading volume fell.  Still, Japanese companies’ renewed appetite for borrowing
has bolstered banks’ lending income even as loan profitability
languishes.  Lending by major banks increased 1.7 percent in October
from a year earlier, the Bank of Japan said today. Net interest
margins at the three megabanks average 0.99 percent, the lowest
in the Asia-Pacific region, data compiled by Bloomberg show, as
asset purchases by the central bank depress  interest rates .  Positive Impact  “If Abe’s growth strategy succeeds in driving borrowing
demand, lending volume can offset declines in loan margins and
have a positive impact” on banks’ earnings, said Tetsuya Yamamoto, a Tokyo-based senior analyst at Moody’s Investors
Service. He expects to see an upsurge in funding demand next
fiscal year.  Confidence among  Japan ’s large manufacturers climbed to the
highest since the onset of the global credit crisis in 2007, the
central bank’s quarterly Tankan survey showed on Oct. 1. The
Bank of Japan last month maintained its commitment to
unprecedented monetary easing and said inflation will almost
match its 2 percent target in the year starting April 2015.  Sameshima at BNP Paribas expects Sumitomo Mitsui’s annual
profit will amount to 770.7 billion yen, compared with a record
794.1 billion yen in the year ended March. Net income at Mizuho
will probably climb to 645.5 billion yen from 560.5 billion yen,
Sameshima said, while he sees Mitsubishi UFJ’s sliding to 836.2
billion yen from 852.6 billion yen.  Fewer Bankruptcies  The banks may also have benefited from a drop in company
bankruptcies, reducing the amount of cash set aside for bad
loans. Business  failures  fell for an 11th month in September,
 Tokyo  Shoko Research Ltd. data show. Credit costs at Sumitomo
Mitsui’s lending unit were 80 billion yen lower than it
previously forecast as it helped corporate borrowers improve
management, according to the preliminary earnings statement.  Revelations that Mizuho failed to cancel 200 million yen of
loans with gangsters made through a consumer credit affiliate
remain a concern for investors despite its earnings resilience,
according to SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.  Japan’s Financial Services Agency, which ordered Mizuho to
bolster compliance on Sept. 27, is examining the bank’s business
improvement plan before deciding any further action. The
regulator is also conducting fresh inspections of the bank,
along with its bigger rivals. Lawmakers plan to question Mizuho
President Yasuhiro Sato in parliament on Nov. 13.  “There is a good chance that Mizuho will raise its full-year profit forecast and dividend payouts,” said Shinichiro Nakamura, a Tokyo-based analyst at SMBC Nikko. “But uncertainty
over the bank’s governance regarding the affiliate loan problem
is increasing at the same time. I expect investors to be more
susceptible to bad news for the time being.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  