-- Vard Sees Biggest Orders Since 2007 on Exploration Demand
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2013-11-11T01:38:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-10/vard-sees-biggest-ship-orders-since-2007-on-exploration-demand.html
Vard Holdings Ltd. (VARD) , a builder of
offshore support vessels, said it will close 2013 with its
biggest annual order in six years as oil and gas companies boost
spending on energy exploration.  “We’re confident that we’ll be able to secure one or two
orders at least” in the coming weeks, Holger Dilling, an
executive vice president at Vard, said in a phone interview.
“We are expecting the best order intake since 2007.”  Demand from  North Sea ,  Brazil  and West Africa and
explorations in new areas such as the Arctic Sea may help boost
orders for Vard’s specialized ships, Dilling said. Investment in
exploration and production may rise to $750 billion next year as
companies seek to add reserves and expand output, the IFP
Energies Nouvelles policy group said last month.  Vard, based in Alesund,  Norway ,  won contracts  worth 11.9
billion kroner ($2 billion) in the first nine months, 45 percent
more than a year earlier. That boosted its total orderbook to
19.6 billion kroner with deliveries stretching into 2017. In
2007, the company had received  orders  worth 15.5 billion kroner.  Shares of Vard fell 0.6 percent to S$0.84 as of 9:35 a.m.
in  Singapore . The stock has declined 35 percent this year,
compared with a 0.6 percent gain in the benchmark Straits Times
Index.  The company’s third-quarter  net income  slumped 67 percent
from a year earlier because of increased costs at its two yards
in Brazil. Sales dropped to 2.37 billion kroner in the period.  Production Delays  The Brazilian yards lost money because quality of some of
the work done by their suppliers fell short of expectations and
caused production delays, Dilling said in the Nov. 8 interview.  “We are now scaling back the degree at which we use other
parties to supply major sections of a ship,” he said. “At one
time we had an ambition to grow on the back of such supplier
relationships. That assumption didn’t go through.”  The yards in Brazil are expected to become profitable as
early as in the second half of next year as they reach a
“higher level of utilization,” Dilling said. The facilities
have an orderbook worth 6 billion kroner to build 14 vessels,
including eight liquefied petroleum gas carriers and two pipe
lay support vessels.  The company changed its name to Vard from STX OSV Holdings
Ltd. this year after Fincantieri SpA, the world’s biggest
builder of  cruise ships , bought it from  South Korea ’s debt-ridden STX Group for 455 million euros ($610 million). It has
shipyards in Norway,  Romania ,  Vietnam  and Brazil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  