-- Two Killed as Saudi Police Clash With Foreigners in Riyadh
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2013-11-10T15:30:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-10/two-killed-as-saudi-police-clash-with-foreigners-in-riyadh-1-.html
Clashes between Saudi police and
foreign nationals in  Riyadh  killed two people, including a Saudi
citizen, as the government cracked down on undocumented workers.  Police arrested 561 people during the riots that erupted
last night in south Riyadh, the official  Saudi Press Agency 
reported, citing a police statement. The violence left 68
injured and damaged 104 cars, the news service reported.  The clashes in the narrow streets of Manfouha, a
neighborhood with a large Ethiopian population, came as
authorities continued implementing measures from Nov. 4 against
violators of the kingdom’s labor laws. Police had arrested
16,000 people by the end of the second day of the crackdown as
they fanned out across cities, raiding shops and construction
sites, al-Riyadh newspaper reported on Nov. 7.  Saudi Arabia, the Arab world’s biggest economy, is taking
action against illegal workers as it pushes to create more jobs
for its citizens and stave off unrest. The kingdom has made job
creation a priority after popular unrest toppled leaders across
the Middle East starting in 2011.  The jobless rate for Saudi workers is about 12 percent,
according to official figures, while economic growth is forecast
to slow to 4.2 percent this year, from 5.1 percent last year and
8.6 percent in 2011, according to a Bloomberg survey of 20
analysts.  The Tadawul All Share Index declined 0.2 percent to 8,248
at the 3:30 p.m. close in Riyadh. The Arab world’s biggest
exchange has advanced 21 percent this year.  Billions in Remittances  Saudi Arabia has attracted more than 9 million foreign
workers, some sneaking illegally across the border from Yemen,
as it invests its oil wealth to build roads, airports and new
industrial cities. The kingdom of 29 million people was the
third-biggest global provider of worker remittances after the
U.S. and  Russia , sending $29.5 billion in 2012, according to
 World Bank data .  Along al-Faryan Street in Manfouha today, hundreds of East
Africans gathered around a traffic light, some sitting on their
over-packed suitcases, as Saudi police watched from outside
their vehicles, which blocked the main intersection. Ambulances
and buses were parked along side the road.  Deportation Centers  The buses are being used to transport undocumented workers
to centers for final exit visa processing and deportation, Al
Arabiya satellite television reported, citing its own
correspondent. Authorities have set up a place to house
violators of the visa laws in Manfouha should they surrender
voluntarily, the Saudi Press Agency said, citing a separate
police statement.  “I am leaving today,” Abdullah Ibrahim, a 25-year-old
Ethiopian, said. “I don’t have a residency permit and need to
leave.” Girma Makonnen, fearing the crackdown and the violence
last night, is also trying to depart after seven years working
in the kingdom.  In Manfouha, some shop signs are written in Amharic, the
language spoken in  Ethiopia , alongside Arabic. On the back
streets, rundown buildings, with plastic water tanks and old air
conditioners hanging from cracked walls, stand next to lots with
collapsed buildings. The neighborhood provides a sharp contrast
to the glass office towers in other parts of the city.  A video posted on YouTube showed  men beating  someone with
sticks and clubs during the crackdown and others running down a
street in the neighborhood.  Another video  showed a convoy of
police vehicles responding to the riots. The authenticity of the
videos couldn’t be verified.  The Saudi Press Agency didn’t identify the nationality of
the second person killed in the clashes. Police shot and killed
one Ethiopian man earlier this week as he tried to grab a
policeman’s weapon during a raid, the Jeddah-based  Arab News 
newspaper reported on Nov. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  