-- Hyundai Motor Union’s Moderate New Leader May Cut Strike Losses
-- B y   R o s e   K i m
-- 2013-11-10T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-10/hyundai-motor-union-s-moderate-new-leader-may-cut-strike-losses.html
Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  may lose fewer
days to strikes after workers returned to office a former union
head who led them during the longest stretch of uninterrupted
production at South Korea’s  largest automaker .  Lee Kyung Hoon won 52 percent support to defeat Ha Bu Young
for leadership of the 47,000-member union, the union’s website
reported.  Lee, 52, will replace Moon Yong Moon, who over the past two
years came to be considered a sign of resurgent militancy at
South Korean labor unions amid a shift of production overseas.
Hyundai Motor, which suffered strikes in 22 of the past 26
years, saw no work stoppages when Lee’s led the union from 2009
to 2011.  “Lee asserts utilitarianism and is known to be a shrewd
negotiator who gets the union’s voice heard without staging
strikes,” Lee Sang Hyun, an analyst at NH Investment &
Securities Co., said by phone. “Lee’s victory is good news for
both investors and the company.”  The Seoul-based carmaker has lost production of more than
1.3 million vehicles valued at 16 trillion won ($15 billion) due
to strikes since the union’s formation in 1987, according to
company estimates. Past worker protests have led to clashes
between police and unionists armed with steel pipes and Molotov
cocktails.  Hyundai, which has suffered strikes in all but four years
since its formation, lost output of more than 215,000 vehicles
equivalent to 4.4 trillion won of sales due to stoppages during
Moon’s term.  Reducing Shifts  Nationwide, the number of work days lost due to labor
disputes more than doubled last year from two years earlier,
according to data from the Ministry of Employment and Labor.  Lee, who joined Hyundai in 1986, has promised to cut
working hours to 40 a week for all employees by reducing
afternoon shifts by an hour, increase base salaries and bonuses,
eliminate conditions for employees to keep working until the age
of 60, and to have the company distribute 60 shares to each
worker, according to his campaign  website .  Hyundai’s profit for the three months ended Sept. 30
increased for the first time in four quarters, climbing 5.6
percent from a year earlier to 2.14 trillion won, the company
said Oct. 24. Rising sales in  emerging markets  including  China ,
where deliveries jumped 15 percent, helped cushion the fallout
from a three-week strike at Hyundai’s South Korean plants that
began Aug. 20.  Challenges Overseas  Hyundai’s South Korean workers approved a wage agreement on
Sept. 9 that raised annual pay by 28.8 million won per worker,
including an average increase in base salaries of 5.1 percent,
according to the union. The pact will expire after one year.  The automaker faces mounting challenges overseas as a
strong won, which has gained about 28 percent against the yen in
the past year, hurts its competitiveness against Japanese
manufacturers in markets including the U.S.  Hyundai  fell  2.2 percent to 248,500 won at the close in
Seoul trading on Nov. 8, compared with a decline of 1 percent
for  South Korea ’s benchmark Kospi index. The shares have climbed
14 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  