-- Thai Former Trader Gets 4-Year Jail Term for Online Post on King
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2012-12-25T07:23:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-25/thai-former-trader-gets-4-year-jail-term-for-online-post-on-king.html
A Thai court today sentenced a
former equity trader to a four-year jail term for posting
information on King Bhumibol Adulyadej’s health that it said
caused the stock market to slide in October 2009.  Katha Pajariyapongse, who worked at a brokerage in Bangkok
at the time, violated the nation’s Computer Crimes Act for
posting content which was “untrue,” according to Bangkok’s
 Criminal Court . The post affected investor sentiment and
resulted in declines in share prices, it said in a statement.  Thailand ’s constitution says the king “shall be enthroned
in a position of revered worship and shall not be violated.”
The benchmark  SET Index (SET)  slumped 7.2 percent in the two days
through Oct. 15, 2009. The share-price declines were caused by
an unspecified “untrue rumor,” the Securities and Exchange
Commission said on Oct. 15, 2009.  Katha confessed to the police during the investigation that
he posted “untrue” information about the king’s health, the
court said. The court then cut the jail term to four years from
six years, it said. Katha didn’t respond to reporters’ questions
on whether he will appeal the ruling. His lawyer said he could
not comment on whether Katha will appeal and declined to give
his name because of the sensitivity of the issue.  King Bhumibol, 85, the world’s longest-reigning monarch,
was admitted to the Siriraj Hospital in Bangkok on Sept. 19,
2009 with a fever, exhaustion and loss of appetite, according to
the Royal Household Bureau. The monarch, who has remained at the
hospital since then, appeared on Dec. 5 with his family at a
birthday celebration in Bangkok before thousands of people
waving royal flags and shouting “Long Live the King.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net  