-- Tata, Birla May Lead $9 Billion Urea Spending: Corporate India
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2012-12-26T11:18:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-25/tata-birla-may-lead-9-billion-urea-spending-corporate-india.html
Aditya Birla Nuvo Ltd. (ABNL)  and  Tata
Chemicals Ltd. (TTCH)  may lead $9 billion of spending to increase
India’s urea capacity by almost 50 percent, spurred by a
government policy guaranteeing returns on investments.  Producers of the nitrogen-based soil nutrient including
state-run companies and co-operatives may add 10 million metric
tons of capacity over the next five years, said S.C. Sharma, an
officer at the Planning Commission, which assesses and allocates
the nation’s resources. The government will assure new urea
units a profit margin 12 percent to 20 percent, Food Minister
K.V. Thomas said in  New Delhi  on Dec. 13.  “As much as 500 billion rupees ($9 billion) of investments
could come,” Sharma said in an interview in Mumbai. “They’ll
start flowing in after this policy change.”  Government control on the price of urea and ambiguity over
natural gas feedstock costs have deterred new investments in the
sector for more than 10 years, leading to an increase in imports
and state subsidies. An increase in urea capacity will also
boost agricultural productivity, helping feed two-thirds of
 India ’s 1.2 billion people that live on less than $2 a day and
contain inflation that averaged 7.5 percent in 2012.  “India has to support a large population base on a small
land area, so the use of fertilizers like urea is critical and
will only rise,” said Apurva Shah, an analyst at Dalal &
Broacha Stock Broking Pvt. Ltd. in Mumbai. “Other fertilizer
makers not present in urea may plan setting up a unit to expand
their product base. In three to four years, there’s bound to be
large-scale investments in this sector.”  Double Capacity  Billionaire Kumar Mangalam Birla may spend as much as $1
billion to double Aditya Birla Nuvo’s urea capacity after the
government approves the new policy, Managing Director Rakesh Jain said in an interview on Nov. 8. Aditya Birla Nuvo, the $4
billion group, is also present in businesses including financial
services, clothing and information technology.  Kumar Mangalam Birla’s net worth is estimated at $9 billion,
according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index . His fortune has
risen about 10 percent this year.  Tata Chemicals  planned to double urea capacity at its unit
in the northern state of  Uttar Pradesh  at an estimated cost of
35 billion rupees, it said in October 2010. The company was
waiting for government assurances on supplies of natural gas,
the main fuel used to produce urea, it had said.  Other planned urea projects include Rashtriya Chemicals &
Fertilizers Ltd.’s 1.15 million ton unit, for which it secured
environment approval in 2006, in western Maharashtra state.
Chambal Fertilisers & Chemicals Ltd. plans to build a similar-
sized factory in the northern state of Rajasthan.  Coal Gasification  State-owned  GAIL India Ltd. (GAIL) ,  Coal India Ltd. (COAL)  and Rashtriya
Chemicals have planned a venture to build a coal gasification
and fertilizer project in eastern Odisha state at an estimated
cost of 80 billion rupees, while Oil & Natural Gas Corp. is
seeking a partner to build a urea factory in the eastern part of
the country.  Shares of Tata Chemicals rose 0.6 percent to 341.85 rupees
in Mumbai. Aditya Birla Nuvo fell 0.3 percent to 1,075.75 rupees.
 Rashtriya Chemicals (RCF)  jumped 3.5 percent to 57.70 rupees, while
Chambal Fertilizers rose 0.8 percent.  India imports about 33 percent of the 28 million metric
tons of urea it needs and the quantity is increasing by about 1
million tons each year, according to a Planning Commission
report last year. Supply shortages may widen to 12 million tons
by March 2017 should new capacities fail to be added, the
commission said.  Higher Prices  The government’s subsidy burden increased as urea prices
surged to a 3 1/2-year high of $515 in April. Urea imports are
estimated to have risen to about 7 million tons in the year
ended March 31, inflating the subsidy by 21 percent to 294
billion rupees from a year earlier, according to the report.  The new policy will save 47.6 billion rupees of subsidies
and reimburse producers the cost of natural gas, which comprises
about 80 percent of the input cost, Dalal & Broacha’s Shah said.  Plans to expand the nation’s urea capacity by 50 percent to
34 million metric tons have been held back by companies, pending
a well-defined state policy. The reopening of a unit in the
eastern state of Assam was the only major urea project to come
on stream since 1999, according to the fertilizer ministry’s
 annual report .  Conservative Estimate  At a conservative estimate, urea units will need at least
72 million metric standard cubic meters of gas fuel daily by
March 2017, compared with the current availability and demand of
41 mmscmd and 43 mmscmd, respectively, according to the
commission report. Should all plans to start new plants, expand
existing facilities and resume closed units be implemented, the
required quantity may exceed 100 mmscmd.  “India needs a robust pipeline network to carry natural
gas for urea and other industries,” said Ashok Kumar Balyan,
managing director at  Petronet LNG Ltd. (PLNG) , the state-owned owner of
LNG terminals in the western and southern coast of India.
“While our Kochi terminal is ready, the lack of a pipeline
network is a constraint.”  Petronet is planning to set up a 5 million metric ton LNG
terminal by 2016 at a cost of 45 billion rupees in the east
coast to meet demand in the eastern part of the country.  “We’re prepared to supply LNG to urea makers as and when
capacities come up,” Balyan said on Dec. 19 on the sidelines of
an energy conference in Mumbai. “The new policy will boost
investments in urea capacity expansion and boost demand for
natural gas.  Eastern Market  Aditya Birla Nuvo plans to sell the increased urea output
in the eastern states of Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, the
eastern region of Uttar Pradesh and in the central state of
Chhattisgarh, Jain said last month. The company declined to
comment after the new policy was approved.  The government will provide financial support to private
entrepreneurs for making capital investments in the fertilizer
sector, the then Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  had said in
his budget speech in March. On Oct. 11, the cabinet increased
urea prices by 50 rupees a ton and approved direct transfer of
the fertilizer subsidy to the farmers.  “At current prices, it is better to import liquefied
natural gas and produce urea locally,” Planning Commission’s
Sharma said. “There should be higher activity in this industry
that has not seen much interest.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  