-- Better Nuclear Bombs for a Safer World
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-12-25T22:36:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-25/better-nuclear-bombs-for-a-safer-world.html
Is the U.S. getting ready to wage
the Cold War again? If one believes  the critics , that’s the aim
behind a planned $10 billion modernization of the B61 nuclear
bomb, the backbone of the Pentagon’s tactical nuclear arsenal.  Actually, there are some other reasons for the upgrade: to
reinforce global deterrence, to provide options against a range
of future threats, and to make the U.S. stronger and safer.
Achieving those goals is worth the money.  As wonderful as the idea of a world without nuclear weapons
is, it isn’t going to be a reality any time soon. For now, the
appropriate U.S. approach is to have the smallest arsenal
possible, made up of weapons that will deter a weak rogue state
-- think North Korea or  Iran  -- from developing a nuclear
capability. Achieving this goal means working with  Russia  to get
rid of as many intercontinental ballistic missiles as possible,
while maintaining a small, but effective, core of tactical
weapons that, with their limited fallout, could be used with
great precision in combat.  The B61’s utility in this regard comes from its so-called
dial-a-yield technology, meaning its explosive power can be set
at a range of less than a kiloton to several hundred kilotons.
(The bomb dropped on Hiroshima,  Japan , in 1945 had a yield of
about 15 kilotons.) No other nuclear device comes close in terms
of flexibility of reach, power and exactitude.  While actual data are classified, it is believed that the
military has about 1,000 active B61s, many held at bases in
 Europe , of which 400 or so will be refurbished. The 11.5-foot,
700-pound armament can be carried by bombers, such as the B-1
and B-52, and fighters, such as the F-15, the F/A-18 Hornet,
some NATO aircraft and (most likely)  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LM) ’s
next-generation F-35.  What needs improving? One weapons manager  told  the
Washington Post that the entire arsenal was built with less
computational power than that of an iPhone. Engineers have
resorted to scouring EBay to replace circuits and vacuum tubes
to keep the bombs operational. The first stage of proposed
modernization will be to give the bomb a new tail kit similar to
that of up-to-date precision-guided missiles, for which  Boeing
Co. (BA)  received a $178 million contract in November. The entire
upgrade -- in which the four current variations of the B61 will
be morphed into a single, maximally flexible bomb -- will take
three years.  Opponents of the program, mostly well-meaning but misguided
 arms-control advocates , have taken two lines of attack. One is
to point out that most B61s are deployed in Europe -- even
though the Soviet threat disappeared long ago. Two responses:
First, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization allies’
involvement in their own nuclear defense binds together a vital
organization in an era of increasingly fragile ties. Second,
geography isn’t very relevant as the weapons can be moved around
the globe quickly: A B61 in the bomb bay of a B-2 based in
 Missouri  can quickly be a threat, and thus a deterrent, to North
Korea and  China .  Another criticism is that the program is a disingenuous
workaround. Some say it’s not really a retrofit, but the
creation of an entirely new weapon, and therefore a cheat on
official  U.S. policy , which states that life-extension programs
“will not support new military missions or provide for new
military capabilities.” Semantics can work both ways, we think:
Yes, most of the components are newly designed and will help
give the bomb new capabilities, but it is hardly an entirely new
weapon.  And, while the price tag is high, the B61 project could
make possible large-scale, money-saving reductions in high-yield
warheads and intercontinental ballistic missiles. We think that
strategic arsenal could quickly and easily be cut by more than
half. In the universe of nuclear logic, the creation of a
smaller, safer, less-powerful nuclear arsenal intended to stem
the atomic ambitions of rogue nations, is pretty much the most
sensible act of nonproliferation one could imagine.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 