-- BOJ’s $267 Billion JGB Buys Spur Record Win Streak: Japan Credit
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 2012-12-25T03:09:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-25/boj-s-267-billion-jgb-buys-spur-record-win-streak-japan-credit.html
Japanese  government bonds  are headed
for the longest run of annual gains on record, buoyed by central
bank purchases almost equivalent to  Malaysia ’s economic output.  The bonds have returned 2.1 percent on an annualized basis
in 2012, set for a ninth year of gains that’s the longest streak
since at least 1986, a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
shows. Ten-year  yields  have declined 22 basis points to 0.76
percent. U.S. Treasuries are poised to post a third annual gain
with a 2 percent return, while the benchmark  rate  has fallen 10
basis points.  The  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s JGB  holdings  increased 22.6 trillion
yen ($267 billion) in 2012 as it sought to pump funds into a
deflation-plagued economy that contracted for two quarters
through Sept. 30. With incoming Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
planning a “large-scale” extra budget to bolster growth,
analysts forecast the 10-year yield will rise to 0.99 percent by
the end of 2013, a Bloomberg survey shows, which would still be
the third lowest globally.  “Public-works spending will kick-start the economy” under
an Abe administration, said Koichi Kurose, chief economist in
 Tokyo  at Resona Bank Ltd., which oversees about $178 billion.
“But the BOJ will increase asset purchases to keep a lid on
borrowing costs.”  Abe, the leader of the  Liberal Democratic Party , will
become prime minister in a special session of the lower house of
parliament tomorrow, after his party’s coalition won a majority
in elections on Dec. 16. It will be his second time in the
nation’s top office, the first ending in September 2007 when he
resigned citing health reasons.  Inflation ‘Accord’  The world’s third-largest economy is likely to resume
growth from the first three months of next year, while consumer
prices will probably continue to fall at least through June,
according to median estimates of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The government will strike an “accord” with the
central bank which will have a 2 percent inflation target, the
LDP said in its election pledges.  The central bank, which set an inflation goal of 1 percent
in February, will discuss “medium- to long-term  price
stability ” at its next meeting in January, the BOJ said in a
 statement  after a two-day policy meeting that concluded on Dec.
20. BOJ Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa , who’s due to step down in
April, and his board voted to add 10 trillion yen to its 66
trillion-yen program that buys securities, including government
debt maturing in three years or less.  The BOJ  owned  112.8 trillion yen of  government securities 
as of Dec. 20. The holdings reached 113.7 trillion yen 10 days
earlier, the most at least since 1997, according to central bank
figures compiled by Bloomberg.  Corporate Bonds  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets, Sumitomo Mitsui
Banking Corp. plans to sell 10-year subordinated bonds for
retail investors, according to a filing today with the Ministry
of Finance. The company, a unit of the nation’s second-largest
financial group by market value, will decide pricing on Jan. 11.  Japan ’s corporate bonds have returned 1.4 percent on an
annualized basis this year, compared with an 11 percent gain in
company notes worldwide, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes
show.  Five-year credit-default swaps that insure Japan’s
sovereign debt were at 80.8 basis points yesterday, down 62
basis points from the end of last year, according to CMA, a data
provider owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market. A drop signals
improving perceptions of creditworthiness.  Yen Weakness  The yen has fallen about 5 percent since Nov. 15 when Abe
called for unlimited cash infusions by the BOJ to end deflation.
Outgoing Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  dissolved parliament the
next day, spurring this month’s elections. The currency traded
at 84.71 per dollar as of 12:05 p.m. in Tokyo after earlier
touching 84.96, the weakest since April 2011.  The nation’s financial markets were shut yesterday for a
national holiday.  The benchmark 10-year bond yield rose 3 1/2 basis points
last week, or 0.035 percentage point, to 0.76 percent. It
dropped to 0.685 percent on Dec. 6, the least since June 2003
when all-time lows were set.  The Ministry of Finance will auction 2.7 trillion yen of
two-year notes tomorrow in its last debt offering this year.
Yields on government notes maturing in one to three years have
collapsed to about 0.1 percent amid purchases by the BOJ.  The LDP may unveil an extra budget of as much as 10
trillion yen to fuel growth, according to separate estimates by
Barclays Plc and Bank of America Merrill Lynch. The party has
also proposed 15 trillion-yen in measures to defend against
natural disasters, a plan  posted  on the LDP’s website shows.  Consumer Prices  The nation’s  consumer prices  excluding fresh food have
fallen at an average of 0.2 percent every month in the past 10
years, reducing wages and discouraging  consumer spending .
Japanese households  held  840 trillion yen of cash and bank
deposits at the end of September, up 9.4 percent from 2002,
according to central bank figures.  “As long as the BOJ’s monetary easing solidly anchors the
shorter end of the yield curve, a rise in bond yields is
unlikely,” said Teruyoshi Sotome, a Tokyo-based senior bond
strategist at Mizuho Securities Co., one of the 25 primary
dealers obliged to bid at government debt sales. “Even when the
government spends, money will just flow into people’s savings.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  