-- Chavez Gives Venezuela Economic Orders in Christmas Eve Call
-- B y   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2012-12-25T05:10:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-25/chavez-gives-venezuela-economic-orders-in-christmas-eve-call.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
gave orders on economic policy by telephone from  Havana  that
will be discussed in meetings from today, the country’s vice
president said.  Chavez and Vice President  Nicolas Maduro  talked for about
20 minutes, Maduro told state television at around 11 p.m. local
time on Dec. 24. Venezuala’s leader is in good spirits and is
walking, said Maduro.  “Chavez spent the day with his family,” Maduro said. “He
talked for fifteen minutes about economic instructions.”  Chavez, 58, is in Cuba recovering from a fourth surgery for
an undisclosed cancer in 18 months. Maduro did not provide
additional information on the economic measures Chavez talked
about or his current state of health.  Chavez could be sworn in before the  Supreme Court  if his
absence for medical reasons extends past the Jan. 10
inauguration date, Maduro said earlier yesterday.  Chavez’s health is improving and the constitution will be
applied Jan. 10 in one way or another, Maduro said on state
television after a Christmas Eve mass held in Caracas to pray
for Chavez’s health. Maduro didn’t say whether Chavez could be
sworn in from Cuba, where he is resting after surgery Dec. 11
that included complications such as bleeding and a respiratory
infection.  “If his permission needs to be extended past Jan. 10, the
constitution goes into action and, surely, he’d have to be sworn
in before the Supreme Court,” Maduro said. “In any case, there
will be continuity because the people on Oct. 7 re-elected a
president and ratified a path.”  Inauguration Date  National Assembly President  Diosdado Cabello  said on Dec.
18 that the inauguration date was not set in stone. Under
Venezuelan law, if Chavez, steps down before Jan. 10, Maduro
would see out the rest of the current term and then hand over
power to Cabello, who must call for an election within 30 days.
If Chavez is unable to start his new term Jan. 10, but doesn’t
step down, the National Assembly president must determine if the
absence is temporary or absolute.  Venezuela will only hold new elections if Chavez said he
was unable to take office and voluntarily stepped down, Cabello
said Dec. 22.  Chavez, who has been told by doctors to rest, is
experiencing a “slight improvement” in his condition,
Information Minister Ernesto Villegas said yesterday. The
Venezuelan leader has been communicating with family members,
analyzing the results of regional elections held Dec. 16 and
keeping up with events in the South American country, Villegas
said.  Chavez Improvement  “The patient is experiencing a slight improvement in his
condition with a progressive tendency,” Villegas said in a
national address broadcast on radio and television.  The leader of  Venezuela ’s opposition, Miranda state
Governor Henrique Capriles Radonski, said yesterday that Chavez
can remain the president of the Latin American nation, at least
temporarily, even if he isn’t sworn in for a new term Jan. 10.  “If the president can’t present himself Jan. 10 before the
National Assembly to take office as president-elect, the
constitution has the answers,” Radonski, whom Chavez defeated
in the October presidential elections, said on the Globovision
network. “Initially, the temporary absence applies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net  