-- China to Invest $1.6 Billion on Disputed Islands, Herald Reports
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-25T02:54:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-25/china-to-invest-1-6-billion-on-disputed-islands-herald-reports.html
China plans to spend more than $1
billion building an airport, piers and other infrastructure on
islands at the center of a territorial dispute with Vietnam and
the Philippines, the 21st Century Business Herald reported.  The central government approved plans to invest 10 billion
 yuan  ($1.6 billion) in infrastructure for areas administered by
the city of Sansha, the newspaper reported today, citing Jiang
Dingzhi, governor of Hainan province, which holds jurisdiction
over the city. China set up Sansha in June to oversee the
Paracel and Spratly islands, parts of which are also occupied or
claimed by Vietnam, the Philippines, Taiwan, Malaysia and
Brunei.  Tensions between China and its neighbors in the  South China
Sea  have spurred concern that competing territorial claims will
disrupt economic relations between the  Association of Southeast
Asian Nations  and the group’s largest trading partner. A dispute
over control of the Diaoyu, or Senkaku, islands in the  East
China Sea  is also weighing on trade between China and Japan.  The funds for Sansha will also be spent on marine  law
enforcement  and ocean fisheries, according to the 21st Century
Herald, which is based in the southern city of Guangzhou.
Construction of some facilities has already started, the
newspaper reported, without giving more detail.  Vietnam Ousted  Sansha is located on Yongxing, the largest island in the
Paracels, with an area of 2.1 square kilometers (0.8 square
miles). China ousted Vietnam from the 30 islets and reefs that
comprise the Paracels, known as Xisha in China and Hoang Sa in
Vietnam, in a 1974 battle that killed 71 soldiers.  “Sansha’s immediate work is for airports, ports, piers and
other important infrastructure, as well as law enforcement
vessels, supply ships and other projects to be established,”
Hainan Governor Jiang was quoted as saying by the newspaper.
“In the long term, we need to implement a platform for Sansha’s
development.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  