-- China’s Southern Provinces Face Rain, Snow as Temperatures Rise
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-25T07:22:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-25/china-s-southern-provinces-face-rain-snow-as-temperatures-rise.html
China ’s weather agency called for
southern parts of the country to prepare for widespread rain and
snow as temperatures in the north, which had fallen to as low as
negative 40 degrees Fahrenheit, began to climb.  Precipitation was forecast for the Yangtze Delta region
around Shanghai, portions of Yunnan province and other parts of
southern China, the  China Meteorological Administration  said in
an e-mailed statement. Rain and snow in these areas may spread
and intensify from tomorrow, it said.  Preparations should be made to protect against the effects
of the weather on transportation and agriculture, the weather
agency said. Freezing temperatures and snowfall in northern
China in the past week had blocked expressways in Xinjiang,
prompted officials to urge cities to conserve heating and killed
two tourists stranded on a mountain near Beijing.  Temperatures have since begun to rise, increasing by 8 to
15 degrees Celsius yesterday in the provinces of Heilongjiang,
Jilin and Liaoning, the meteorological administration said.  Portions of Xinjiang, China’s westernmost province, were
forecast again to see blizzards today, it said. Some northern
parts of the province have seen as much as 1.5 meters of
snowfall in the past few days, the agency said.  Rainfall is forecast tomorrow for Nanning, capital of
Guangxi province, and for Changsha, capital of Hunan province.
 Shanghai  was also forecast to see showers, according to the
weather agency’s National Meteorological Center. Rain wasn’t
forecast for the cities of Guangzhou and Shenzhen in Guangdong
province.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Liu at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  