-- China Foreign Exchange Manager Calls U.S. Global ‘Bright Spot’
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-25T09:11:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-25/china-foreign-exchange-manager-calls-u-s-global-bright-spot-.html
The U.S. may be a “bright spot”
for the global economy in 2013, with Europe and Japan “not
optimistic,” said the official who oversees day-to-day
management of  China ’s $3.3 trillion foreign exchange reserves.  Credit expansion and the development of the alternative
 energy industry  will help make the U.S. “the major power
promoting global economic growth in the future,” said Huang Guobo, director of the foreign exchange reserves management
department at China’s  State Administration of Foreign Exchange .
A summery of Huang’s comments, made Dec. 16 at  Tsinghua
University ’s Shenzhen campus, was published on a school website
today.  China, the largest foreign lender to the U.S. government,
increased its Treasuries holdings in October to a five-month
high of $1.16 trillion, according to U.S. Treasury Department
data released on Dec. 18. SAFE doesn’t publish data on its
investments and Huang, also the foreign exchange regulator’s
chief economist, didn’t directly comment on China’s holdings.  “Buying U.S. treasuries is a good choice for China now
because the dollar is expected to appreciate,”  Liu Dongliang , a
foreign exchange analyst with China Merchants Bank in Shenzhen,
said by phone today. “Also, the credit risk of  U.S. government
debt  is lower than European and Japanese bonds.”  Huang said Europe and Japan have seen weak growth and
contraction and their governments and private businesses are
reducing leverage, clouding the outlook for their economies.  The global economy also faces uncertainties stemming from
the U.S. “fiscal cliff,” Huang said. Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  used the metaphor to refer to more than $600
billion in spending cuts and tax increases set to take effect in
January if Congress doesn’t act.  The “lingering” debt crisis in Europe and quantitative
policy easing by major central banks were also cited by Huang as
reasons for uncertainty.  China won’t roll out big stimulus policies in 2013, Huang
said. Authorities still have room to tweak monetary and fiscal
policy, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net ;
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  