-- Do Unmarried Poor Have Bad Values or Bad Jobs?
-- B y   A n d r e w   J .   C h e r l i n
-- 2012-12-25T23:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-25/do-unmarried-poor-have-bad-values-or-bad-jobs-.html
A large U.S. government-funded
experiment to encourage low-income parents to marry, a legacy of
the George W. Bush administration’s Healthy Marriage Initiative,
has just fallen flat.  Even if you were a  skeptic  all along of the wisdom of the
government promoting marriage, as I was, this isn’t good news.
For the children of these unmarried couples, it is bad news: It
portends years of unstable, complicated home lives. The apparent
failure of marriage promotion makes the task of finding other
ways to help them even more urgent.  In 2005, Congress  authorized  $150 million a year for
promoting healthy marriage and responsible fatherhood. The most
visible project was a social experiment to help young, unmarried
couples who were expecting a child, or who had just had one,
stay together and marry.  The Administration for Children and Families engaged well-
known and dedicated researchers and clinicians to design new
“relationship skills” programs to improve communication, avoid
conflict and build trust -- an approach that had previously
seemed to help middle-class couples remain together. With high
hopes, it hired a leading research firm,  Mathematica Policy
Research , to recruit about 5,000 couples in eight sites across
the nation.  Half of the couples, chosen at random, were offered the
program and some additional services, at an  average cost  of
$11,000 a couple. The other half weren’t offered the program and
served as a control group. Both sets of couples were followed
for three years.  Discouraging Results  The agency released the long-awaited  final results  on Nov.
30: Relationship-skills education had failed to contain the
forces that pull young, unmarried couples apart. Couples who
were offered the program were no more likely to have remained
together or to have married than were those who weren’t offered
it.  Nor was there a difference in relationship quality between
the two groups. Only the Oklahoma site showed some positive
effects. Attendance was not good: Just 55 percent of couples in
the program ever showed up for a relationship-skills session.
Even among those who did, there was little evidence that the
program had an effect.  Like many other liberal social scientists, I’m
uncomfortable with having government favor one form of family
life over others. Yet I also am convinced that children do best
in stable family environments and that repeated parental
breakups and “repartnering” can be harmful to them. Stable
families don’t have to involve a marriage, but in the U.S.
(unlike, say,  Sweden )  cohabiting relationships  don’t last very
long. Marriage is the way that most American parents maintain
stable bonds.  Only 57 percent of couples in the program were still
romantically involved after three years. Many of their children
will  see a succession  of parents’ new partners moving in and out
of their homes. Some will grow up in complex families with full-
siblings, step-siblings, half-siblings, parents and parent-
figures spread across several households.  Yet the lesson of the marriage-promotion experiment
shouldn’t be to simply give up trying to encourage stable
relationships. There are broad hints elsewhere in American
society about where we should go next. While marriage has been
in decline among the poor and the working class, it has
strengthened among the college-educated middle class.  Young adults who have graduated from four-year colleges are
more  likely to marry  than are less-educated young adults. More
than 90 percent  wait  to have children until after they have
married. Since 1980, the divorce rate has  dropped  sharply for
the college-educated and is now down to the levels of the
mid-1960s.  Class Divide  College-educated Americans have benefited from the trends
in the U.S. economy over the past few decades. They can get jobs
designing and marketing clothes, electronics and toys that are
now made overseas. They become the managers who hire call-center
workers in  India  to explain our phone bills to us.  Meanwhile, less-educated young adults, who can no longer
manufacture those goods or answer those calls, are hesitant to
marry. Instead, they are increasingly  having children  in brittle
cohabiting relationships.  Is it just a coincidence that the winners in our globalized
and automated economy are turning toward marriage while the
losers are turning away? If not, then marriage and childbearing
patterns have become one more manifestation of the growing
economic inequality in American society.  Conservative analysts argue that the decline of marriage
among working-class Americans reflects a crisis of values rather
than a changed economy: a lack of commitment and work discipline
among young men and a societal drift toward permissiveness in
sexuality and childbearing.  It is true that a half-century ago living together was
frowned on, and having a child outside of marriage was shameful.
Cultural changes since then have allowed young adults to form
intimate partnerships and to have children without committing to
long-term relationships.  Yet college-educated Americans have been exposed to the
same cultural forces as the less-educated, and they are still
centering their family lives around marriage. So there must be
more to the story than changing values.  When sociologists Pamela J. Smock, Wendy D. Manning and
Meredith Porter  asked  moderately educated young adults in
Toledo,  Ohio , what they needed in order to marry the partners
they were living with, most pointed to financial issues. Leroy,
29 and recently unemployed, said, “I don’t really know ’cause
the love is there uh ... trust is there. Everything’s there
except money.”  Without an improvement in the labor market for young adults
who don’t have a college education, efforts to instill
commitment probably wouldn’t be any more useful than teaching
relationship skills turned out to be. The Administration for
Children and Families is also  supporting  evaluations of programs
that combine employment services with relationship services.  Perhaps these programs will be more effective at helping
young adults whose fundamental problem is not values or
communication but rather finding a decent-paying, steady job.
Making a place for these young adults in a transformed economy
may be our best hope of promoting stable relationships.  (Andrew J. Cherlin is a professor of sociology and public
policy at Johns Hopkins University. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this article: Andrew J. Cherlin at
 cherlin@jhu.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Katy Roberts
at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 