-- Egyptians Back Constitution as Opponents Dispute Results
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-12-25T22:39:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-25/egypt-readies-for-official-results-on-constitution-amid-unrest.html
Egyptians voted in favor of a
constitution that opponents argued would further enshrine
Islamic law and supporters said was needed to restore stability
and economic growth.  The charter, which was rushed through by a drafting panel
after the withdrawal of nearly a quarter of its members, was
passed with a 63.8 percent “yes” vote in the referendum that
ended Dec. 22, the country’s electoral commission said yesterday
in a press conference in Cairo. Turnout for the vote was 32.9
percent, the panel said, adding that it had reviewed all
complaints of voting irregularities submitted to it and
discounted results from some polling stations that closed early.  Opposition groups including secularists, minority
Christians and youth activists have alleged numerous ballot
violations and pointed to the turnout as evidence the
constitution isn’t representative of the nation’s diversity.
Islamist supporters of President Mohamed Mursi denied claims by
opponents that the charter curbs certain freedoms.  The polarization of Egyptian society will probably continue
until the various political groups “manage to come to the table
together, which I don’t see happening now,”  Mona Mansour , chief
economist at Cairo-based investment bank CI Capital Holdings,
said by phone. “It’s time that the liberal parties started
thinking about how to gain seats in parliament” so they can
have a say in Egyptian politics, she said.  U.S. Reaction  Mursi “has a special responsibility to move forward in a
way that recognizes the urgent need to bridge divisions, build
trust and broaden support for the political process,” Patrick Ventrell, a spokesman for the U.S. State Department, said
yesterday in a  statement .  “We hope Egyptians disappointed by the result will seek
more and deeper engagement,” he said. “We look to those who
welcome the result to engage in good faith. And we hope all
sides will re-commit themselves to condemn and prevent
violence.”  The parliament’s so-far powerless upper house, which will
assume temporary legislative powers when the charter is adopted,
is due to convene today in a new session. The move stems from
the absence of a lower house, which was dissolved earlier in the
year under court order. New elections for that chamber are
expected to be held within 60 days of the adoption of the
constitution.  Youth Movement  The April 6 youth movement, which was among the groups
backing Mursi in his presidential run, said it shifted to the
ranks of the opposition due to its belief that the Muslim
Brotherhood and its political arm, the Freedom and Justice
Party, have proven to be no different than the former ruling
 National Democratic Party , group co-founder  Ahmed Maher  said
yesterday.  The group said it would coordinate with the opposition to
set Jan. 25, the second anniversary of the start of the uprising
that ousted  Hosni Mubarak , as the day to overturn the
constitution, the state-run Ahram Gate reported.  The vote was fully supervised by the judiciary, the
commission said, denying allegations to the contrary.  Egypt ’s Minister of Communication and Information
Technology Hany Mahmoud announced that he had resigned after
less than five months in his position though he will remain in
his post until a successor is chosen, the state-run Middle East
News Agency reported, citing a post made by the minister on his
Twitter account. Mahmoud posted that after 30 years of working
with international companies he couldn’t adjust to the
government work culture, “especially in the current
circumstances of the country,” the news agency said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  