-- Emerging Stocks Increase Second Day as Technology Shares Rally
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-12-25T15:49:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-25/emerging-stocks-increase-second-day-as-technology-shares-rally.html
Emerging-market stocks gained for
the second day, led by information technology companies.  Wintek Corp. (2384) , Taiwan-based maker of equipment including
liquid-crystal displays, surged 5.3 percent, while  AU Optronics
Corp. (2409)  added 4.8 percent. OAO Inter RAO UES jumped as much as 3
percent in Moscow after Vedomosti reported Russian President
 Vladimir Putin  ordered the government to speed up Rosneftegaz’s
acquisition of 40 percent of OAO Irkutskenergo, which belongs to
Russia’s third-largest power producer.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  rose 0.1 percent to
1,045.06 by 5:45 p.m. in Istanbul, with 144 shares advancing, 39
retreating and 638 unchanged, while markets from Brazil to
Romania were closed for the Christmas holiday. Democrats and
Republicans discussed how to avoid more than $600 billion in tax
gains and spending cuts, known as the fiscal cliff, which are
scheduled to take effect Jan. 1.  “Emerging-market investors have a sense that U.S.
lawmakers will finally come to a consensus soon, boosting
appetite for riskier assets,” Alexander Ivanischev, head of
research at Infina Investment Co., said by phone from Moscow.  Failure to reach an agreement would push the U.S. into
recession for the first half of 2013, the  Congressional Budget
Office  said. The 21 nations represented in the MSCI  Emerging
Markets  Index send about 17 percent of their exports to the U.S.
on average, World Trade Organization data show.  The developing-nations measure has risen 14 percent this
year, compared with a 13 percent increase in the  MSCI World
Index. (MXWO)  The emerging-markets index trades at 12.3 times estimated
earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s multiple of 12.6,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Irkutskenergo Stake  Markets in Asia,  Hong Kong , India, South Korea, Malaysia,
Indonesia, Pakistan and the  Philippines  are shut for holidays
today, while  China , Taiwan, Thailand,  Vietnam  and  Sri Lanka  were
open.  Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  added 0.1 percent, rising for the
first day in three. The benchmark index in Turkey added 0.4
percent to a record high in a second day of gains.  Inter RAO gained 2.1 percent to 2.52 kopeks. Vedomosti
cited unidentified people close to the deal, while in a report
today VTB Capital analysts led by Mikhail Rasstrigin said Inter
RAO’s sale of its Irkutskenergo stake is a “long-awaited step
forward” for the utility.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries narrowed one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 266 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  Taiwan’s  Taiex Index (TWSE)  surged 1.3 percent, with trading
volumes 15 percent below the 10-day average at the close, while
China’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  gained 2.5 percent amid
expectations for a recovery in the world’s second-largest
economy.  China is due to release figures this week on November
profit for industrial companies, following a more than 20
percent surge in their earnings in October.  A gauge of emerging-market  technology companies  rose 0.5
percent, the best performance of 10 industry groups.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  