-- Merger Made Comcast Strong, U.S. Web Users Weak
-- B y   S u s a n   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-12-25T21:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-25/merger-made-comcast-strong-u-s-web-users-weak.html
On a gray day in February 2010,
 Brian Roberts  sat facing the U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee’s
antitrust subcommittee. The panel was holding its first hearing
on a proposed merger between two of the country’s most powerful
media companies, the cable distribution giant Comcast Corp. and
the entertainment conglomerate NBC Universal.  Roberts, the chief executive officer of Comcast, was a calm
and friendly witness. If the  Justice Department ’s Antitrust
Division and the Federal Communications Commission approved the
merger, Comcast’s future as the largest distributor of
information in the country would be assured.  Comcast had been gaining strength as a monopoly provider of
wired high-speed Internet access in its territories, while the
U.S. was lagging behind other countries when it came to the
prices charged for and the speed and capability of this basic
communications tool. At the same time, the Internet was becoming
the common global medium. With high-speed  Internet access , a
farmer in  Missouri  can access weather conditions and crop
prices; American Indians on a remote reservation can have their
eyes checked by a distant doctor; entrepreneurs and small
businesses in  California ,  New York  and all the states between
can find inexpensive entry points into global markets.  World Leader  A decade earlier, the U.S. had led the world in Internet
access, but by the time of the hearing, in most of Comcast’s
markets, the company was the only provider selling services at
speeds sufficient to satisfy Americans’ requirements.  The access Comcast sold was less useful than it could have
been, however, because the network was designed to be contested
among users in the same neighborhood, making speeds unreliable.
It also favored passive downloads far more than active uploads.
Meanwhile, in most parts of the U.S., the Internet access that
all Americans would need within five years -- fiber-optic lines
capable of speeds from 100 megabits to gigabits per second --
could not be purchased at all.  With the merger, Comcast would become even more powerful.
Any new high-speed Internet provider in Comcast territory would
have to enter the market for content at the same time it
incurred the heavy upfront costs needed to wire a network.
Indeed, by the time the Comcast- NBC Universal  merger was
announced at the end of 2009, Verizon Communications Inc., the
only nationwide company installing fiber-optic lines, had
already signaled that it was  planning to stop  doing so. It was
just too hard to compete with Comcast.  In turn, Comcast had no incentive to make its Internet
access affordable or available to everyone within its
territories. Nor did it have any incentive to upgrade its
networks to fiber optics.  In seeking to have business ties to much of the content it
provided, too, Comcast was setting itself up to be the
unchallenged provider of everything -- all data, all
information, all entertainment -- flowing over the wires in its
markets. The company would have every incentive to squeeze
online services that were unwilling to pay the freight to
Comcast.  A few months before the hearing, Roberts had told investors
in a conference call that the merger would make Comcast
‘‘strategically complete.” After more than 40 years of steady
acquisitions, including some of the largest deals in the
industry, Comcast would be done.  New Monopolies  Americans might be surprised at how concentrated the market
is for the modern-day equivalent of the standard phone line. Two
enormous monopoly submarkets -- one for wireless and one for
wired transmission -- are each dominated by two or three large
companies.  On the wired side, Comcast is the communications equivalent
of Standard Oil. Even before its merger with NBC Universal, it
was the country’s largest cable operator, its largest
residential high-speed Internet access company, its third-
largest phone company, the owner of many cable content
properties -- including 11 regional sports networks -- and the
manager of a robust video-on-demand platform. Comcast’s high-
speed Internet access had almost 16 million subscribers. (The
second-largest cable provider, Time Warner Inc., had about 9
million.) Comcast dominated the markets in  Boston ,  Chicago ,
Philadelphia,  San Francisco ,  Seattle  and 11 more of the 25
largest U.S. cities.  NBC Universal, for its part, owned some of the most popular
cable networks in the country and one of the largest broadcast
networks, with 25 television stations, seven production studios
and several crucial Internet properties, including iVillage and
a one-third interest in Hulu.com. The merged company would
control 1 in 5 hours of all television viewing in the U.S.  The other cable companies were represented at the hearing
by a token competitor, Colleen Abdoulah, president and CEO of
WideOpenWest Networks. A midsize cable system struggling to
compete for subscribers in Comcast’s territory in the Midwest,
WOW was trying to provide better  customer service , but it was
forced to pay high prices for take-it-or-leave-it bundles of
programming owned by NBC Universal and other media
conglomerates. The big cable-distribution companies such as
Comcast can get those bundles for far less than the smaller
companies can. Abdoulah would testify that if Comcast controlled
NBC Universal, WOW’s negotiations for programming would become
even more one-sided.  Behind the witness table was  David Cohen , the lawyer who
had shaped Comcast’s public narrative of the merger: A true-blue
American family company was trying to save the NBC broadcast
network and bring order and technical innovation to the cable-TV
industry.  To those who argued that the merger would stick U.S.
consumers with high-priced, homogenized entertainment and
second-class Internet access, Comcast had only to respond that
the situation for consumers would not be any worse than it
already was. If opponents could not decisively prove “merger-
specific harms,” the phrase Comcast employees repeated
endlessly to staff members across  Washington , the deal could not
be blocked.  Internet Future  By February 2010, the accepted wisdom in Washington was
that the deal would go through. And it showed Americans their
Internet future. Even though there are several large cable
companies nationwide, each dominates its own regions and can
raise prices without fear of being undercut.  Wireless access, dominated by  AT&T Inc. (T)  and Verizon, is,
for its part, too slow to compete with the cable industry’s
offerings; mobile wireless services are, rather, complementary.
Verizon Wireless’s joint marketing agreement with Comcast,
announced in December 2011, made that clear: Competitors don’t
offer to sell each other’s products.  It doesn’t have to be this way. Other developed countries
have a watchdog to ensure that all their citizens are connected
at cheap rates to fiber-optic networks. In South Korea, more
than half of households are already connected to fiber lines,
and those in  Japan  and  Hong Kong  are close behind. In the U.S.,
only about 7 percent of households have access to fiber, and it
costs six times as much as in Hong Kong.  Rather than try to ensure that the U.S. will lead the world
in the information age, American politicians have removed all
regulation of high-speed Internet access and have allowed steep
market consolidation. The cable industry has done its best to
foil municipal efforts to provide publicly overseen fiber
Internet access. Now, the U.S. has neither a competitive
marketplace nor government oversight.  In the subcommittee hearing, Roberts never faltered, and
his performance was judged a success. In the end, the Antitrust
Division allowed the merger, and the FCC followed suit.  Compared with people in other countries, Americans are
paying more for less and leaving many of their fellow citizens
behind. Perhaps they will start to care when they see that the
U.S. is unable to compete with nations whose industrial policy
has been more forward-thinking.  ( Susan Crawford  is a contributor to Bloomberg View and a
visiting professor at the Harvard Kennedy School of Government
and  Harvard Law School . She is a former special assistant to
President  Barack Obama  for science, technology and innovation
policy. This is the first in a series of three excerpts from her
new book, “Captive Audience: The Telecom Industry and Monopoly
Power in the New Gilded Age,” which will be published Jan. 8 by
Yale University Press. The opinions expressed are her own. Read
 Part 2  and  Part 3 .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Susan P. Crawford at  scrawford@scrawford.net  or @scrawford on
Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 