-- Grand Bargain Shrinks as Congress Nears U.S. Budget Deadline
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2012-12-26T19:16:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-25/grand-bargain-shrinks-as-congress-nearing-u-s-budget-deadline.html
The deal that seems possible to fix
the U.S. budget is getting smaller and smaller.  Congress returns tomorrow amid calls for action in the
Senate, five days before a deadline that would trigger more than
$600 billion in tax increases and spending cuts that could cause
a U.S. recession,.  The politics of progress in that chamber are easier than in
the Republican-controlled  House of Representatives , which balked
last week at Speaker  John Boehner ’s plan for tax increases only
on those with income above $1 million. Still, the House would
have to sign off on any Senate plan. Boehner, an  Ohio
Republican , and President  Barack Obama  have been unable to agree
on the tax-rate increase on top earners Obama wants or the cuts
to entitlement programs that Boehner sought, complicating the
chances of getting a package done.  “At this point, all they’re looking for is a fig leaf,”
said  Stan Collender , a former staff member of the House Ways and
Means Committee and the House and Senate Budget committees who
is now at Qorvis Communications in Washington. “There’s no
grand bargain. There never was.”  Small Deal  The Senate is run by Democrats, and some Republican
members, including  Kay Bailey Hutchison  of Texas, have said that
they would favor a small deal on parts of what the president has
sought to avoid raising taxes on the less affluent.  The trouble is that Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a
Nevada Democrat, and Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, need to come up with something that also can get
through the House, which has balked at any tax increases. Senate
Republicans don’t want to be on the record supporting higher
taxes unless they know the House also would pass it.  “There’s still a chance for them to get a deal,” said Ron Bonjean, a Republican strategist who once served as a spokesman
for former House Speaker Dennis Hastert of  Illinois  and former
Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott of  Mississippi . “It grows
more unlikely by the day, and there’s not a lot of days left.”  Obama and Boehner haven’t spoken since the president flew
to  Hawaii  on Dec. 21, according to a Republican aide who
requested anonymity when discussing the negotiations. Obama
plans to return to Washington today, while his family will
remain in Hawaii, the White House said yesterday.  House Plans  The House will hold a pro-forma session tomorrow. House
leaders told rank-and-file lawmakers that they would receive a
48-hour notice before being called back to Washington. Leaders
haven’t yet given that notice and are still discussing the
schedule, according to a leadership aide who requested anonymity
when discussing the leaders’ plans.  Even if the leaders decided today to call back members,
many wouldn’t be back to the Capitol until Dec. 28.  Bonjean put the probability of no deal at 75 percent.
Still, he said there’s a chance for one because Obama and
Republican leaders want to avoid the “fiscal cliff” -- a term
coined by Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  in testimony
before the House Financial Services Committee in February. Tax
cuts signed into law by President  George W. Bush  and extended by
Obama are scheduled to expire Jan. 1, and automatic spending
cuts for government programs are scheduled to start next month,
creating the so-called cliff.  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  declined 0.5 percent to 1,419.86 at 1:37 p.m.
in New York. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  dropped 35.98
points, or 0.3 percent, to 13,103.10. The yield on the benchmark
10-year Treasury bond was 1.76 percent at 1:38 p.m. in New York,
down two basis points, or 0.02 percentage points, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Interim Bill  Before going on vacation with his family, Obama urged
leaders of both parties to put together an interim bill to keep
taxes from rising on middle- and lower-income Americans as the
two sides work on a more comprehensive package.  Senate Democratic leaders have said they won’t take action
on a fallback plan unless they have assurances from Boehner that
he will bring it up in the House and let it pass with a
combination of Democratic and Republican votes, and from
McConnell that Senate Republicans won’t filibuster it.  “A comprehensive solution to the looming fiscal cliff will
need to be a bipartisan solution,” Reid said on the Senate
floor Dec. 21. “No comprehensive agreement can pass either
chamber without both Democrats and Republican votes.”  Deal Possibility  Senator  Charles Schumer  of New York, the chamber’s third-
ranking Democrat, told reporters Dec. 21 that “the key to this
is the House.” McConnell wouldn’t “want to have his members
put their necks on the line for a deal that may not pass the
House,” he said.  Schumer and Reid called on Boehner to resume talks with
Obama. Failing to reach a budget deal would push the U.S. into
recession for the first half of 2013, according to the
nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office .  “At this point there’s zero percent chance of a big deal
and maybe a 10 percent chance of a small deal before Jan. 1,”
Collender said. He has predicted a no-deal scenario since before
the Memorial Day holiday in May, and said the past two weeks of
inaction reinforced his projection.  At this point, Collender said, whether the Senate moves
first won’t matter.  “Nothing will move  House Republicans  if they don’t feel
like getting moved,” he said. “They’ve never been swayed by
the Senate before.”  Democratic Support  The remaining option for averting the cliff, he said, would
be if Boehner risks his House speakership to put to the floor a
tax deal that would get a majority of Democrats to support it
and few -- perhaps less than 50 -- Republicans.  “The Republican caucus would never forgive him,” he said.
“The statesmanlike thing to do would be to say, ‘I’m the
speaker of the House, not the head of the  Republican Party .’
That is the equivalent of never running for speaker again.”  Boehner, first elected speaker in January 2011, was
selected by his Republican conference as its nominee to continue
in the post in the new Congress that convenes next week. He
needs an absolute majority of those present and voting on Jan. 3
in the 425-seat House to be re-elected. Republicans will hold
234 seats to begin the 113th Congress in January. If re-elected,
Boehner will have more freedom to cut a deal, Collender said.  Edging Closer  Until Dec. 17, Obama and Boehner had been edging closer to
a deal that included $1 trillion each in tax increases and
spending cuts. Boehner had put tax-rate increases on the table
for income above $1 million a year, infuriating some lawmakers
backed by anti-tax Tea Party groups.  That was the proposal he pulled from the House floor on
Dec. 20 rather than see it defeated by his own caucus members.  Both Obama and Boehner have offered concessions in talks,
in person and by telephone, since Dec. 5.  The president initially sought $1.6 trillion in new
revenue, including a return to pre-Bush income tax rates for
annual  household income  over $250,000 a year. The speaker first
rejected any increase in tax rates, instead offering $800
billion in revenue by limiting unspecified exemptions.  After Boehner proposed raising taxes for households earning
more than $1 million a year, Obama countered with a proposal to
raise taxes on more than $400,000 of income.  Obama also has agreed to accept cuts in entitlement
spending on programs such as Medicare, while Boehner has
maintained that new taxes and spending cuts must be balanced on
a one-to-one basis.  In sum, the two have approached the outlines of a plan that
would raise about $1 trillion in tax revenue and cut about $1
trillion in spending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at 
 fantonelli@bloomberg.net  