-- India Joins Indonesia Facing Heightened Policy Dilemma: Economy
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-12-26T05:30:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-25/india-joins-indonesia-in-juggling-growth-price-risks-in-2013.html
Central banks in  Indonesia  and
 India , with the worst-performing currencies among Asian  emerging
markets  this year, will face more challenges in 2013 as they
balance inflation risks with the need to boost growth.  The Reserve Bank of India must deal with “conflicting
cues” from elevated prices and an economic slowdown,
complicating policy decisions even after it recently signaled
there is room to lower interest rates, Mizuho Corporate Bank
Ltd. economist  Vishnu Varathan  said. Indonesia’s inflation may
be at the upper end of the central bank’s targeted range,
forcing it to raise  borrowing costs  “aggressively,” according
to HSBC Holdings Plc.  Demand for higher wages, reduced government subsidies and
greater capital inflows may drive up price pressures in the
world’s fastest-growing region. Bank Indonesia refrained from
raising rates this year even as the currency slumped and costs
accelerated, while delayed reforms and infrastructure
bottlenecks in India have spurred the most rapid  inflation  among
the largest emerging nations.  “Central banks will have to strike a delicate balance
between tightening policy, allowing stronger exchange rates and
looking past inflation humps,” Varathan said in a Bloomberg
survey of 15 economists on challenges facing policy makers.
“Inflationary pressures may be emerging in a few quarters,
whereas growth may not be recovering quickly and broadly enough
to justify shifting to decisive policy tightening.”  Policy Paradox  Indian inflation has remained above the central bank’s
comfort level of 5 percent every month for the past three years,
while growth is forecast to be the slowest in a decade in the
current fiscal year. The paradox is pitting Governor Duvvuri Subbarao against Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram, as
the central bank chief resisted calls for lower borrowing costs
to aid a government policy overhaul.  “Policy makers there will continue to grapple with
uncomfortably-high inflation and a substantial slowdown in
investment and gross domestic product growth,” said Sukhy Ubhi,
who covers Asian economies at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London .
“The former suggests that monetary policy should be tightened,
while the latter suggests it should be loosened. We expect
inflation to fall only gradually.”  The rupee has declined more than 3 percent this year, after
plunging 16 percent in 2011. Wholesale prices rose 7.2 percent
last month, and gains may moderate to as little as 6.8 percent
by the end of March, the government predicts. The economy will
expand about 5.7 percent to 5.9 percent in the year through
March, less than an earlier estimate of as much as 7.85 percent,
the Finance Ministry said Dec. 17.  Sticky Inflation  “The RBI’s dilemma is especially acute, given that sticky
inflation is entrenched as it is due to structural or supply-
side factors that are not reflective of underlying demand
conditions,” Varathan said. “The risks of policy error remain
pronounced, and the RBI will remain acutely aware of this.”  Bank Indonesia will start raising rates as early as next
quarter, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists last
month. The central bank has kept borrowing costs unchanged for
10 straight meetings, seeking to bolster a currency that has
dropped more than 7 percent against the dollar this year as
rising imports and declining exports led to a widening current-
account deficit and a $1.5 billion trade gap in October.  While Bank Indonesia expects  inflation  of about 3.5 percent
to 5.5 percent next year, price gains may exceed that target
amid a planned increase in electricity tariffs and a possible
reduction in fuel subsidies, said Chua Hak Bin, an economist at
Bank of America Corp. in  Singapore .  Power Tariffs  Indonesia’s Energy Minister Jero Wacik said today he has
signed a decree to raise electricity tariffs by 15 percent from
Jan. 1. The increase will save the government 14 trillion rupiah
($1.4 billion) in subsidies, he said.  “Bank Indonesia needs to be more pro-active in containing
latent inflationary risks now,” said Lim Su Sian, a Singapore-
based economist at HSBC. “Otherwise the central bank may have
to tighten policy faster and more aggressively than expected,
particularly in the second half, when we expect inflation to
climb towards the upper end of its target.”  The Philippine central bank will also struggle to manage
inflation without sacrificing competitiveness or economic
stability, said  Aninda Mitra , an economist at  Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  in Singapore. Its growth is
attracting funds that pushed the peso to a four-year high in
November, even as Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas lowered rates  four
times  this year and introduced measures to curb inflows.  Worse Dilemma  “In the absence of measures to sterilize liquidity more
effectively, or much faster capital formation which will
heighten the economy’s absorption capacity, BSP’s monetary
dilemmas will get worse in 2013,” Mitra said. “With growth
above potential, market rates and credit costs at historic lows,
we could see rapid asset price growth or more inflation.”  The majority of economists surveyed by Bloomberg this month
said  Malaysia ’s central bank will face the fewest challenges
next year. The nation boasts the  slowest inflation  in Asia and
growth that exceeded 5 percent for the past five quarters,
giving Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz room to extend a 1 1/2-year
 rate-pause .  The country must hold general elections in early 2013, and
Prime Minister Najib Razak may resume a plan shelved in December
2010 to cut fuel subsidies, said  Enrico Tanuwidjaja , a
Singapore-based economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.
Najib has raised sugar prices as he tries to narrow the budget
deficit to 4 percent of GDP in 2013 from 4.5 percent this year.  Malaysian Flexibility  Malaysia can reduce subsidies in a gradual manner, allowing
businesses to adjust without having to pass on rising costs to
consumers, Zeti said Dec. 6.  Consumer prices  have gained 1.3
percent in each of the past three months.  While the central bank will probably keep its benchmark
rate unchanged at 3 percent at its six meetings next year, it
has “ample flexibility” to lower borrowing costs if the global
economy deteriorates sharply, Chua said.  “Bank Negara has kept its ‘policy ammunition’ dry,” Mitra
of ANZ said. “The central bank also has a toolkit which is well
suited to managing capital flows and inflation, and is
relatively free from political interference.”  Interest rates alone increasingly won’t be enough to manage
the various threats facing Asian central bankers, Varathan said.  “Central banks will have to flexibly employ the entire
tool box -- main policy rate, reserve requirements, macro
prudential measures, currency market signals -- to manage
sometimes conflicting risks,” he said.  Stocks Rise  In  Japan , incoming Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has called for
unlimited cash provisions from the central bank to spur
inflation and growth in Asia’s No. 2 economy. The Japanese yen
weakened and Asian stocks climbed today amid expectations he
will push for further stimulus.  Abe agreed with his coalition ally Natsuo Yamaguchi of the
New Komeito Party yesterday on a policy package that includes
“bold monetary easing” to reach an inflation target of 2
percent. One  Bank of Japan (8301)  policy maker had embraced the idea of
open-ended monetary stimulus as early as last month, according
to a record of the Nov. 19-20 board meeting released today in
 Tokyo .  Elsewhere in Asia, South Korean  consumer confidence  failed
to improve this month as a budget stand-off in the U.S. and
austerity measures in  Europe  highlighted risks for the nation’s
exports. Singapore’s industrial output rose for the first time
in four months in November, while  Thailand ’s export growth
quickened to a 15-month high in the same period.  Russia  will release weekly consumer-price data today, while
 Mexico  will give international reserve numbers. Home values in
20 U.S. cities probably increased 4 percent in the year through
October, a Bloomberg surveyed showed before S&P/Case-Shiller’s
report due today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  