-- Japanese Stocks May Rise Second Day as Abe Appoints Cabinet
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 2012-12-25T23:19:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-25/japanese-stocks-may-rise-second-day-as-abe-appoints-cabinet.html
Japanese stocks may rise for a
second day, with the Topix Index poised for its biggest monthly
gain since February, on prospects Japan’s incoming Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe will do more to weaken the yen and combat
deflation after appointing his cabinet today.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) , Japan’s biggest
lender, may be active. Hokkaido Electric Power Co. may draw
attention after it was reported the utility will apply for a
rate increase. Asahi Group Holdings Ltd. may be active on a
report the beverage maker’s operating profit may miss the
forecast.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring in
March were bid in the pre-market at 10,100 in Osaka, at 8:05
a.m. local time. The Nikkei advanced 1.4 percent to 10,080.12
yesterday. Equity markets in  Hong Kong , Australia and New
Zealand are closed today for holidays.  “Market expectations are on the rise for the new
government as it beefs up efforts to beat deflation and revive
the economy,” said  Hiroichi Nishi , an equities manager in Tokyo
at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. “I expect overseas investors to
buy shares as they return from the Christmas holiday.”  Abe, whose  Liberal Democratic Party  won a landslide victory
in the Dec. 16 election, is scheduled to appoint a cabinet today
after the lower house names him prime minister.  Gains in Japanese stocks may be limited as Asahi is among
the 127 companies in the 1,678 member Topix prepared to go  ex-
dividend  today, meaning investors who buy the shares today won’t
get a year-end dividend.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  gained 13 percent this year as
of yesterday as U.S. and Chinese economies showed signs of
recovery and central banks around the world took action to shore
up growth. The Asian benchmark trades at 14.6 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 13.8 times for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and 12.7 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
The Shanghai Composite Index advanced 2.5 percent yesterday,
erasing this year’s loss.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 