-- Shinzo Abe Approved as Japan’s Prime Minister by Parliament
-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2012-12-26T08:02:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-25/japan-s-ruling-ldp-agrees-on-2-inflation-target-with-ally.html
Japan ’s parliament confirmed Shinzo Abe as the nation’s seventh prime minister in six years,
returning him to the office he left in 2007 after his party
regained power in a landslide election victory last week.  The lower and upper houses of parliament approved Abe’s
nomination in  Tokyo  today. Former prime minister Taro Aso will
be finance minister in Abe’s administration, Chief Cabinet
Secretary Yoshihide Suga told reporters in Tokyo.  Abe, 58, faces a recession, a diplomatic dispute with  China 
and an election for control of the upper house that’s seven
months away. The new prime minister has already had an effect,
with the yen falling around 6 percent since mid-November on his
pledges to boost fiscal spending and force the  Bank of Japan (8301)  to
do more to end deflation.  “If voters get the sense that the economy is improving, he
is likely to win in the upper house and he will have a more
stable administration,” said Harumi Arima, a Tokyo-based
independent political analyst.  The yen slid through 85 per dollar today for the first time
since April 2011. As of 4:58 p.m. in Tokyo, the currency was 0.7
percent weaker at 85.34. The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  closed up
1.5 percent, heading for its seventh week of gains.  The currency’s advance to a postwar high last year eroded
the competitiveness of Japan’s exporters and contributed to
concern the nation’s manufacturing is hollowing out.  Economic Contraction  Gross domestic product shrank at an annualized 3.5 percent
pace in the three months through September after a contraction
in the previous quarter, meeting the textbook definition of a
recession. The median estimate of analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg
News  is for a 0.5 percent contraction this quarter. Exports slid
for a sixth month in November.  Abe agreed with his coalition ally Natsuo Yamaguchi of the
New Komeito Party yesterday on a policy package that includes
“bold monetary easing” to reach an inflation target of 2
percent, bolstering his party’s position in the lower house.  With New Komeito backing a cornerstone of Abe’s economic
platform, the LDP is also in a better position to campaign for
July elections in the upper chamber, where the party lacks a
majority.  “Abe is proving that his strong words during the campaign
were not just rhetoric,” Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. currency
strategists, led by  Marc Chandler  in  New York , wrote in a note
this week. Abe has called for “unlimited easing” to reach the
goal for consumer price increase, and for increased spending on
public works.  Inflation Target  The New Komeito party had cautioned in the campaign before
this month’s election that forcing the central bank to reach a 2
percent inflation target risked undermining its independence.  The agreement with New Komeito also calls for a “large”
extra budget for the current fiscal year to March 2013 and
deregulation of the energy, environment and health care sectors.
The parties agreed to seek nominal gross domestic product growth
of 3 percent, without giving a timeframe for the goal.  With Japan’s economy repeatedly lapsing into contraction in
recent years, burdened by an export-driven growth model and a
shrinking population at home, the country has been unable to
escape the deflation that became entrenched in the late 1990s.
Consumer prices excluding fresh food, a benchmark monitored by
the central bank, haven’t advanced 2 percent  for any year  since
1997, when a national  sales tax  was increased.  Open-Ended Stimulus  One Bank of Japan policy maker had embraced the idea of
open-ended monetary stimulus as early as last month, according
to a record of the Nov. 19-20 board meeting released today in
Tokyo. The unnamed member said that open-ended easing until the
central bank achieves its 1 percent inflation goal is one
option, the minutes of the meeting showed.  The BOJ held off from adding to stimulus at the gathering
after having done so in October and September. The bank last
week boosted its asset-purchase fund by 10 trillion yen ($117
billion), bringing it to 76 trillion yen. The facility, which
buys assets including government and corporate debt, is the
bank’s main policy tool to lower borrowing costs as the
benchmark  interest rate  is near zero.  The LDP and New Komeito said they would work to strengthen
Japan’s alliance with the U.S. and to secure sufficient funds
for the armed forces and coast guard to ensure the defense of
Japan’s territory, according to the statement.  Foreign Policy  Security has been a point of point of contention between
the partners, with Yamaguchi saying in an interview on Dec. 6
that any drastic rise in Japan’s defense spending would be
“undesirable.”  Abe has said that without more resources for defense Japan
is at risk of losing control of disputed islands known as
Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in China. Incursions by Chinese
vessels and an airplane near the uninhabited islands in the  East
China Sea  have raised tensions in recent months.  The LDP victory marks a personal comeback for Abe, who quit
as premier in 2007 after a year in office, citing a stomach
ailment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in 東京 at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  