-- China Stocks Erase Year’s Losses as Yen Drop Drives Japan Shares
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-25T15:44:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-25/japan-stocks-rise-as-yen-touches-20-month-low-rubber-gold-gain.html
Chinese equities rose, with a
benchmark gauge erasing losses this year, amid expectations for
a recovery in the world’s second-largest economy. Japanese
shares and rubber gained after the yen touched a 20-month low.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  climbed 0.3 percent as of 10:10
p.m. in  Tokyo , while the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 2.5
percent and Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average added 1.4 percent.
The yen rallied 0.2 percent after falling to 84.96 per dollar
earlier, the weakest since April 2011. Rubber futures rose 1.6
percent in Tokyo. Most markets in Europe are closed and the U.S.
is shut for the Christmas holiday.  China  is due to release figures this week on November
profit for industrial companies, following a more-than 20
percent earnings surge in October. Japan’s incoming Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe agreed with a coalition ally on a policy
package that includes “bold monetary easing” to reach 2
percent inflation. Japanese consumer prices excluding fresh food
slid last month, economists said before data this week.  “There are growing expectations that new leaders will take
measures to reform the economy and the financial system will
find China new growth drivers,” said  Wang Zheng , the Shanghai-
based chief investment officer at Jingxi Investment Management
Co., which manages $120 million. “That’s why you see all these
big-caps rallying today. The ongoing economic recovery is
spurring the rebound as well.”  Almost three stocks rose for every one that fell on MSCI’s
Asian gauge, with only energy shares down among the 10 main
groups in the measure. Japan’s  Topix Index (TPX) , the nation’s
 broadest gauge  of stocks, rose 0.6 percent as Japanese markets
reopened after a holiday yesterday.  Company Profits  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added 0.1 percent as
Taiwan’s Taiex Index gained 1.3 percent. Asian markets outside
of Japan, China, Taiwan, Thailand, Vietnam and  Sri Lanka  are
closed. Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  climbed 0.1 percent, Turkey’s
 benchmark index  increased 0.4 percent, a second day of gains and
the highest level since at least January 1988, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Property developers led gains on the Shanghai Composite
Index, which slipped as much as 11 percent this year. Poly Real
Estate Group Co. and China Vanke Co., the biggest  Chinese
developers (SHPROP) , gained more than 4.7 percent after Soufun Holdings
Ltd. said it sees improvement in the  property market  in 2013.
 Wuliangye Yibin Co. (000858)  paced gains for consumer-staples companies
after the 21st Century Business Herald reported that the liquor
maker may raise prices next year.  The previous corporate earnings report from China showed a
20.5 percent gain in October from a year earlier, turning
positive for the year as factory output accelerated and exports
picked up following a seven-quarter economic slowdown.  Rate Cut  Israel ’s T-25 Index dropped 0.8 percent to 1,181.48.
Israel’s benchmark government bonds rose, pushing the yield to a
record low, and the shekel weakened after the central bank cut
its base lending rate to counter slower economic growth.  The yield on the 5.5 percent government notes due January
2022 dropped four basis point, or 0.04 percentage point, to 3.65
percent by 4:30 p.m. close in Tel Aviv, the lowest since the
notes started trading in April 2011. The shekel depreciated 0.1
percent to 3.7471 a dollar.  The  Bank of Israel  yesterday lowered the lending rate by a
quarter-point to 1.75 percent, the lowest in more than two
years. Eight of the 23 economists surveyed by Bloomberg had
forecast the decision, while 14 predicted no change. One
expected a larger half-point reduction. The regulator lowered
its 2013 economic growth outlook to 2.8 percent from 3 percent,
excluding gas output.  Weak Yen  Japan’s Abe, poised to become prime minister tomorrow after
elections earlier this month, said on Fuji Television on Dec. 23
that he will consider revising the law governing the  Bank of
Japan  if the central bank doesn’t increase its inflation target
to 2 percent from 1 percent at its January meeting.  “The yen has extended losses on the back of Abe’s
comments,” said  Toshiyuki Kanayama , a market analyst at Tokyo-
based Monex Inc. “Exporters, especially auto and high-tech
shares, are going to be bought as investors expect better
currency margins.”  The yen rose 0.2 percent to 84.80 a dollar and gained 0.1
percent to 111.82 per euro. Japan’s so-called core inflation
rate slid 0.1 percent in November from a year earlier, according
to the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey
before the data due on Dec. 28.  Abe’s agreement with coalition ally Natsuo Yamaguchi of the
New Komeito Party also calls for a “large” extra budget for
the current fiscal year to March 2013 and deregulation of the
energy, environment and health care sectors. The parties agreed
to seek nominal gross domestic product growth of 3 percent,
without giving a time frame for the goal.  “Japan’s Abe means business this time,”  Bill Gross , who
runs the world’s biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment
Management Co., said in a Twitter posting. “Trillions of yen to
be printed. Weak yen, positive inflation.”  Rubber for delivery in June, the most-active by volume,
gained as much as 1.7 percent to 292.40 yen a kilogram on the
Tokyo Commodity Exchange.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Chua Baizhen in Singapore at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  