-- New Delhi Returns to Normal as Police Ease Curbs After Clashes
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2012-12-26T07:27:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-25/new-delhi-maintains-alert-as-policeman-injured-in-protests-dies.html
Police  lifted traffic restrictions
and reopened metro stations in central  New Delhi  as India’s
capital returned to normal following protests and violent
clashes triggered by the gangrape of a 23-year-old student.  Authorities removed checkpoints around India Gate, the
venue that saw the use of water cannons and tear gas over the
weekend, easing the commute of office goers after the Christmas
holiday. A ban against public gathering of more than four people
remains in force, Delhi Police spokesman  Rajan Bhagat  said in an
interview.  Six men raped and brutalized the woman in a moving
chartered bus in the city on Dec. 16, sparking outrage and anger
that intensified into street demonstrations days later, fueled
by postings on Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc. sites. Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  appealed for calm while the protesters
demanded the death penalty for the six accused even as the
victim remained critical in the hospital.  Data provided by India’s  National Crime Records Bureau  show
about 24,200 cases of rape and 228,650 cases of crimes against
women were reported in 2011. Still, figures given by the United
Nations show 1.8 cases of rape for every 100,000 in India,
compared with 63 in  Sweden , 29 in the U.K. and 27 in the U.S.
Most cases go unreported in India.  Rewriting Code  One policeman died yesterday following the clashes over the
weekend, while 65 protesters and 78 security personnel were
injured, the Times of  India  reported on Dec. 24.  Singh assured “all possible efforts to ensure security and
safety to all women,” while the government set up a panel to
rewrite the nation’s criminal code to include capital punishment
for the “rarest of rare” rape cases.  Before last month’s hanging of Mohammed Ajmal Kasab, the
lone surviving Pakistani gunman involved in the 2008 Mumbai
attacks, India last executed the death penalty in 2004, when a
convicted rapist was hanged 14 years after committing the crime.
Slow trials and lax enforcement of laws also fueled the protests
in the capital.  India has about 15 judges for each million of its 1.2
billion people, according to  United Nations  data. In  China  there
are about 159 judges per million people, while in the U.S. the
figure is about 108.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in New Delhi at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  