-- TNK Billionaires to Invest JV Sale Proceeds in Russia
-- B y   A n a t o l y   T e m k i n
-- 2012-12-26T18:13:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-25/tnk-bp-billionaires-to-invest-most-of-sale-proceeds-in-russia.html
The TNK billionaires, who agreed to
sell out of their oil venture with  BP Plc (BP/)  for $28 billion, said
they plan to invest most of the proceeds in  Russia  after
President Vladimir Putin said he “hoped” they would.  “Russia was and always will be the basic platform for
investment” for the shareholders’ separate business interests,
according to a statement yesterday from Mikhail Fridman and
German Khan’s Alfa Group, Len Blavatnik’s Access Industries and
 Viktor Vekselberg ’s Renova Group. “In Russia, in particular,
they plan to invest most of the proceeds from selling their
shares in TNK-BP.”  BP and AAR, which represents the billionaires in the TNK-BP
oil venture, are ending a contentious, almost decade-long
partnership, each selling its half to  OAO Rosneft. (ROSN)  The largest
deal in Russia ever is set to vault state-run Rosneft, headed by
Putin’s former deputy Igor Sechin, past PetroChina Co. to become
the world’s biggest publicly traded oil producer by volume.  Alfa, Access and Renova also said they “plan to increase
their international presence as global players with a Russian
registration.”  ‘Civilized’ Measures  Putin, who has backed an initiative to repatriate as much
as $1 trillion, said last week that Russia should undertake
“careful, civilized” measures to bring back capital from low-
tax jurisdictions abroad.  While calling on the TNK billionaires to invest at home,
Putin said they won’t be forced.  “If we recognized the lawful, legitimate owners, if they
earned their money legally, then it’s their business where they
invest,” the president said during a televised news conference
on Dec. 20. “I would very much like for them to invest the
proceeds or a significant part in Russia’s economy.”  The AAR partners praised measures by Russia’s leaders to
attract investment in the country, according to their statement.  TNK-BP Holding (TNBP) , the venture’s traded unit, fell 1.1 percent
today, extended losses from this year’s peak in March to 48
percent and cutting its value to $27 billion. The unit, which
holds most of the venture’s Russian assets, slumped 4.8 percent
from Dec. 20 to 21, the biggest two-day drop in two months.  BP is selling its 50 percent of TNK-BP for $17 billion and
12.8 percent of Rosneft, while pledging to buy $4.8 billion of
Rosneft stock from the state. The AAR shareholders said they’ll
get $28 billion in cash when the deal closes next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anatoly Temkin in St. Petersburg at 
 atemkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  