-- Nomura Extends Longest Winning Streak in Six Years: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-12-25T09:03:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-25/nomura-extends-longest-winning-streak-in-six-years-tokyo-mover.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  climbed for a
ninth day in Tokyo trading, extending the longest winning streak
in more than six years as investors anticipate a stock rebound
will bolster earnings at  Japan ’s biggest brokerage.  The stock rose 6.3 percent to 458 yen at the close, the
highest since March 22, 2011. Tokyo-based Nomura has climbed 34
percent this month, and on Dec. 21 marked its longest rally
since April 2006.  Japan’s benchmark  Topix Index (TPX)  is heading for its biggest
monthly gain since February on optimism incoming Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe will increase pressure on the central bank to do more
to beat  deflation . Brokerages have gained the most this month as
the stock recovery boosts prospects investors will take more
risks, said fund manager  Mitsushige Akino .  “Investor sentiment has been rapidly improving, enabling
them to buy not only stocks but also foreign equities and
bonds,” said Akino, Tokyo-based chief fund officer at Ichiyoshi
Asset Management Co., which oversees about 30 billion yen ($350
million). “That’s increasing business opportunities for Nomura
and other securities firms.”  The  Topix Securities and Commodity Futures Index  has
climbed 28 percent since Nov. 30, outpacing the Topix Index’s
7.2 percent gain.  Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601) , Japan’s second-
biggest brokerage, rose 4.5 percent to 463 yen today and is up
27 percent this month.  Nomura has surged 65 percent since Chief Executive Officer
Koji Nagai took the post on Aug. 1. Nagai has promised to cut $1
billion of costs and focus on Japan and elsewhere in  Asia  as the
firm that bought part of bankrupt Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
in 2008 scales back its overseas ambitions.  “Retail brokerage operations are the wellspring of
Nomura’s business,” Akino said. “The market recovery coincides
with the new CEO’s policy of focusing on the mother market and
strengthening retail businesses.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Russell Ward at 
 rward16@bloomberg.net  