-- How Unions Promote Wage Inequality
-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 2012-12-25T23:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-25/pact-between-unions-and-politicians-makes-us-less-safe.html
Relief was the main sentiment of
travelers who planned to pass through  John F. Kennedy 
International Airport in New York when security workers there
canceled the  threat  of a Christmastime strike.  Yet two troubling questions linger. The first involves the
airport workers’ specific grievances. They  complained  of making
only $8 an hour. Why so low, you wonder, especially compared
with what union workers in security-related jobs get. The
guards, hired by the contractor Air Serv Corp., were so angry
that one of them even expressed a warning that those in safety
fields often don’t make explicit: that a labor action could
compromise the public’s security. “They will be completely
unsafe,”  said  the guard, Prince Jackson.  The second question is why the nation now confronts the
prospect of more labor trouble that could inconvenience the
public, or possibly jeopardize safety, whether in  Camden ,  New
Jersey , where firemen are warning of the danger of closing
engine companies, or in  Long Beach ,  California , where a clerical
employees’  strike  delayed the movement of goods worth $1 billion
a day in a recent work stoppage.  The answer to both questions lies in the failure of an old
grand bargain made in the very name of safety.  Back in the early days of the  labor movement , the idea of
public-sector unions seemed absurd to trade unions and
governments alike. Calvin Coolidge, as Massachusetts governor,
led in the firing of policemen after riots that took place
during a labor walkout. The future president said, “There is no
right to strike against the public safety.”  Roosevelt’s Warning  Even Franklin Roosevelt, the father of our most aggressive
labor law, the  Wagner Act , drew the line at public-sector
unions.  “The process of collective bargaining as usually
understood cannot be transplanted to public service,” Roosevelt
said.  Roosevelt also  made  explicit why: “A strike of public
employees manifests nothing less than an intent on their part to
obstruct or prevent the operations of government until their
demands are satisfied.” This was, Roosevelt said, “unthinkable
and intolerable.”  Other political leaders identified more specifically what
was out of balance about a public-sector union and a government
employee negotiating at a table. The public-employee
representatives were paid by the unions, and thus beholden to
them. But the politicians across the table were also beholden to
unions, for their campaign contributions or votes. The interests
of the average non-union American, the public, were not
represented.  Gradually, however, the concept of public-sector unions
became accepted. As the political scientist  Daniel DiSalvo 
notes,  New York  Mayor  Robert Wagner Jr ., the son of the senator
who sponsored the first great labor law, gave city workers their
own “little Wagner Act,” which permitted public-sector
bargaining.  In 1962, President John F. Kennedy signed an executive
order affirming the rights of federal workers to bargain
collectively. Workers exercised those rights, as those who lived
through the disruptive school strikes in New York or other
public-sector strikes recall.  Eventually a bargain was struck, and it, too, involved
safety. Public-sector employees would reduce disruption at
schools, police stations and fire stations. They wouldn’t leave
cities to riot. And the government employers, whether federal,
state, city or town, would pay them a premium for that: a little
more pay, a little extra overtime, more  job security , the kind
of safety we think of day to day.  Compensation Skyrockets  This bargain appeared to work. The strikes abated. Yet the
bargain eventually caused the very result the skeptical
commentators had predicted years before. Politicians in office
and public-sector union officials both had an interest in
pushing compensation to the heavens.  Concerns that might have checked the city and state
treasurers, such as the fiscal future of their town or state,
paled in comparison with the immediate need of handing a packet
across that table. Over and over again, public officers deluded
themselves into believing that future economic growth and the
attendant revenue would pay for dream packages.  The eventual result, as a Bloomberg News  series  has
detailed, was absurdly high packages for public employees. The
California state trooper with the $484,000 compensation package
is only an extreme example of a national trend. The  Port
Authority  of New York and New Jersey, which manages JFK Airport,
has 13 employee unions. Some longtime officials of those unions
are paid more than $200,000 a year each, as the  Empire Center 
for New York State Policy has revealed. In the meantime, of
course, the economy grew far more slowly than predicted,
rendering such payments prohibitive.  One consequence has been to divide workers into two
classes. First are the older workers who enjoy the sweetheart
deals. The second class consists of the workers hired more
recently, whether in unions or outside of them, often through
contractors. Cash-poor government offices such as the  Port
Authority  turn to companies such as Air Serv because the Air
Servs will pay less, those $8-an-hour wages, and offset some of
the egregious labor costs generated by top union jobs.  In short, the real opponent of the underpaid, benefit-poor
newbie is not the employer. It is fellow overpaid workers. The
taxpayer can “afford” to pay public-sector wages higher than
$8 an hour, but not $200,000 a year. What this Christmas story
tells us is that the grand bargain demands a rewrite. After all,
as the furious security guard’s statement reminds us, the
bargain no longer functions -- and we may not be safe.  ( Amity Shlaes  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
director of the Four Percent Growth Project at the Bush
Institute. Her  biography  of  Calvin Coolidge  will be published in
February 2013. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 