-- RTS Futures Slip as Oil Bets Pull Back: Russia Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-12-25T21:06:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-25/rts-futures-slip-as-oil-bets-pull-back-russia-overnight.html
Russian stock futures fell after
crude had declined for a second day and investors cut bullish
commodity bets on concern U.S. lawmakers won’t reach a budget
agreement, sending the world’s largest economy into a recession.  Russian  equity futures  expiring in March on the nation’s
dollar-denominated RTS Index slipped less than 0.1 percent to
151,520 in New York, where markets were closed for the Christmas
holiday. Futures contracts on  Russia ’s ruble showed the currency
strengthening 0.1 percent to 31.08 per dollar after the ruble
fell 0.6 percent to 30.73 in Moscow yesterday.  The 30-stock  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  added 0.1 percent to 1,473.87
yesterday, capping a 5.1 percent advance this year. Russia, the
world’s biggest energy exporter, stands to lose if U.S.
legislators fail to meet a year-end budget deadline for tax
increases and spending cuts, known as the fiscal cliff, that may
push the country into a recession and weaken global demand for
commodities. The world’s biggest natural gas producer and
largest aluminum company are both based in Russia.  “The U.S. will probably avoid the ‘fiscal cliff,’ but for
the present, no one is really sure,” Ivan Manaenko, the head of
research at Veles Capital LLC in Moscow, said yesterday in a
phone interview. “This debate isn’t good for the short term for
risk asset classes, for example, Russia. So, Russia’s economy
would be negatively impacted if there is no agreement though we
think this problem will be solved.”  Crude Declines  Crude, Russia’s chief export earner, dropped for a second
day on Dec. 24, falling 0.1 percent to $88.61. Brent oil for
February settlement fell 17 cents on Dec. 24 to $108.80 a barrel
on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Hedge funds and money managers reduced net-long commodity
positions to the lowest in almost six months, cutting bullish
bets across 18 U.S. futures and options by 5.6 percent to
758,256  contracts  in the week ended Dec. 18, the lowest since
June 26, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.  U.S. lawmakers won’t vote until after the Christmas holiday
on legislation to avert more than $600 billion in  automatic tax
increases and spending cuts scheduled to start in January. House
Republican leaders on Dec. 21 scrapped a plan to allow higher
taxes on incomes of more than $1 million.  Volume traded on RTS Futures was 35 percent of its average
three-month daily volume, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Oil Contract  OAO Lukoil, Russia’s second-biggest oil producer, won the
rights to three fields in western Siberia beating the other two
bidders, state-run  OAO Rosneft (ROSN)  and OAO Gazprom Neft. Lukoil, the
country’s biggest private oil producer has been expanding
internationally, with projects in West Africa,  Venezuela , Saudi
Arabia and  Iraq  because of a dearth of new fields at home and
declining output at older fields.  OAO Inter RAO UES jumped 2.1 percent in Moscow after
Vedomosti reported Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered the
government to speed up Rosneftegaz’s acquisition of 40 percent
of OAO Irkutskenergo, which belongs to Russia’s third-largest
power producer.  Trading in crude on the New York Mercantile Exchange was
closed yesterday, as was brent oil trading on the London-based
ICE Futures Europe exchange. Urals crude, Russia’s chief oil
blend, was little changed at $108.66 a barrel on Dec. 24, and
has gained 2.8 percent in 2012.  The RTS Volatility Index, which measures expected swings in
the index futures, rose for a fourth day, adding 0.4 percent to
21.65.  The  Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of the most-traded
Russian companies in New York fell 0.5 percent on Dec. 24 to
97.02, led by  OAO Rostelecom (ROSYY) , Russia’s dominant fixed-line
operator, which dropped 2.7 percent to $23.26. The gauge is up
7.1 percent this year. U.S. markets resume trading today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  