-- Sole Western Gold Miner Seeks Clarity in Vietnam: Southeast Asia
-- B y   J a s o n   F o l k m a n i s
-- 2012-12-25T02:05:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-25/sole-western-gold-miner-seeks-clarity-in-vietnam-southeast-asia.html
Vietnam’s willingness to work with
the only Western miner producing in the nation may determine
whether the country can attract larger companies to its “highly
prospective” resource industry, the company’s chairman said.  Canada’s  Besra Gold Inc. (BEZ)  has overcome obstacles ranging
from power shortages to changes in tax laws to increase output
every year since it started operations in 2005. The government
must provide more clarity on royalties and taxes to attract more
resource investment, said David Seton, chairman of the company,
previously known as Olympus Pacific Minerals Inc.  Almost three decades after Vietnam first opened its  economy 
to foreign investment, the Southeast Asian nation doesn’t appear
on any rankings of global gold producers. In that time,  China 
has grown to become the world’s biggest gold-producing nation,
 Indonesia  is in the top 10, and foreign companies are operating
mines in  Laos ,  Thailand  and the  Philippines .  “We’ve proven ourselves and now we’re in a position where
we can either hold it steady, or we can really move on in
Vietnam, and it’s really up to the government to set the
scene,” Seton said in an interview in Ho Chi Minh City.
“Vietnam’s got the right geological structural setting. It’s
highly prospective.”  Toronto-based Besra’s gold production will probably reach
65,000 ounces this year and 75,000 ounces in 2013, the company
estimates. By comparison, in Thailand,  Australia ’s  Kingsgate
Consolidated Ltd. (KCN)  said in August it is targeting fiscal 2013
production of 120,000 to 130,000 ounces from the Chatree gold
mine.  Investment Delays  Besra in 2010 said it delayed plans to invest $100 million
in Vietnam because of the implementation of a tax on unrefined
gold. While the company has now invested some of that money,
Seton said by telephone yesterday that more clarity is needed
before committing to additional investment of as much as $50
million in the next two to three years.  “Besra is already producing substantial enough amounts of
gold,” said Heiko Ihle, a Westport, Connecticut-based senior
research analyst at Euro Pacific Capital. “ There is meaningful
institutional interest.”  Besra said it’s the only Western miner extracting minerals
in Communist Party-ruled  Vietnam , and has the first two foreign
owned gold mines to be operated in the country since the 1940s.
Companies that have pulled out of the country include
Australia’s Westralian Sands Ltd., which left an ilmenite mine
in the province of Ha Tinh in 1996 after saying it couldn’t
exercise management control over its project.  Royalty Payments  Funds controlled by Ho Chi Minh City-based fund manager
Dragon Capital in 2010 sold control of a project to mine a
tungsten and fluorspar deposit in northern Vietnam, after delays
in development.  “Increased taxes and royalty requirements for natural
resources projects in Vietnam have the potential to undermine
the economic fundamentals of private and foreign investments,”
the Dragon-managed Vietnam Resource Investments (Holdings) Ltd.
fund told shareholders in 2010.  Triple Plate Junction Plc (TPJ) , a U.K.-listed miner, said in
2009 that the tungsten project’s delays had caused “particular
concern” over the security of investment in Vietnam.  “If there were other operators there, the Vietnam story
would get more credibility,” said Peter Arden, managing
director of Melbourne-based resource research company Groundwork
Pty. “There’s a herd mentality in mining, so when no one else
is in an area, it’s tough to get others interested.”  ‘State of Flux’  In 2006, Besra’s first full year of production, the company
targeted output of 20,000 ounces of gold. It produced 4,757
ounces as problems including power interruptions hampered
operations. In 2009, Besra said mining laws in Vietnam were “in
a state of flux” and subject to continuous reviews.  “They are the only ones who have hung in there and had any
tangible success,” said Arden. “The market will give credit to
someone like Besra as Vietnam comes more into focus, but because
of the risk profile for Vietnam, they’ve got to show they can
operate at least one other mine.”  The company’s Australian-listed  shares  have fallen 44
percent to 16 Australian cents this year, valuing Besra at A$61
million ($63 million).  Besra sees the Sepon copper-gold mine in Laos, operated by
Hong Kong-based  MMG Ltd. (1208) , a unit of China’s largest metals
trader, as an example of what Vietnam could achieve if the
government provided encouraging licensing and financial terms.  Sepon “is on the same fracture as us,” said Seton.
“We’ve already drilled the structure. It goes for kilometers.”  Discouraging Expansion  Besra cites the 15 percent royalty that it is paying at
Phuoc Son, one of its two properties in central Vietnam’s Quang
Nam province, as an example of terms that discourage expansion.
Production from its Bong Mieu site in Vietnam faces a royalty of
3 percent.  Bong Mieu had production of 13,142 ounces of gold last
year, on which Besra paid $524,000 in royalties, while Phuoc
Son’s output was 29,726 ounces, resulting in $6.39 million in
royalty payments, according to Besra’s annual report.  Besra needs “a longer-term view on the certainty of the
royalty and the tax regime” to commit to expanding in the
country, which in turn would “absolutely” attract larger
Western miners, Seton said.  “It’s all down to how they treat us, because we’re the
company that everyone looks at in Vietnam in the mining
sector,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City  at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  