-- Korea Consumer Confidence Fails to Gain Amid Export Risks
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2012-12-25T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-25/south-korea-consumer-confidence-fails-to-gain-amid-export-risks.html
South Korean consumer confidence
failed to improve this month as a budget stand-off in the U.S.
and austerity measures in  Europe  highlighted risks for the
nation’s exports.  The  sentiment index  was at 99 in December, unchanged from
November, indicating pessimists continue to outnumber optimists,
the  Bank of Korea  said in a statement today.  The Finance Ministry may follow the Bank of  Korea  in paring
its growth forecast for next year when it releases new
projections tomorrow, according to An Ki Tae, an economist at
Woori Investment & Securities Co. in  Seoul . American lawmakers
face a year-end deadline for preventing more than $600 billion
in scheduled tax increases and spending cuts from dragging down
a recovery, while the euro region continues to wrestle with a
sovereign-debt crisis.  “The government’s current 4 percent projection is
unrealistic, and they know it,” said An. “The  Finance Ministry 
is likely to cut it down to a little above three percent to
reflect increased uncertainties from the U.S. and Europe.”  The BOK estimates an expansion of 3.2 percent in 2013 under
the administration of Park Geun Hye, who takes office in
February after winning an election on Dec. 19. The central bank
made that forecast in October, reducing a July prediction of 3.8
percent. In the third quarter of 2012, gross domestic product
increased 1.5 percent from a year earlier, the weakest pace
since 2009.  The won touched an almost two-week low of 1,076.45 per
dollar against the dollar in Seoul on Dec. 24 on concern that
the U.S. lawmakers won’t have enough time to agree on the budget
revisions.  The  consumer confidence  index is based on responses from
2,032 households in 56 cities, with the survey conducted by mail
and telephone between Dec. 10 and Dec. 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  