-- Sumitomo Mitsui Weighs Record Dollar Bond Sales Next Year
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2012-12-26T02:44:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-25/sumitomo-mitsui-weighs-record-dollar-bond-sales-on-growth-abroad.html
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group
Inc. (8316) ,  Japan ’s second-largest bank by market value, may sell a
record amount of dollar-denominated bonds next year to fund loan
expansion abroad.  The company’s lending unit targets two issuances that could
total as much as $4.5 billion, matching this year’s amount as
the most in Sumitomo Mitsui’s 11-year history, President  Koichi Miyata  said in a Dec. 19 interview. The two sales would range
from $1 billion to $3 billion each, he said.  Japan’s three megabanks are increasing lending overseas as
deflation and  economic contraction  damp  credit demand  and loan
profitability at home. Selling bonds and collecting deposits in
dollars is vital for Sumitomo Mitsui to fulfill a goal of
expanding lending abroad by 2 trillion yen ($23 billion) a year,
Miyata said, adding that he wants to invest in Asian banks.  “We’re going to trim dependence on yen-based funding,”
Miyata, 59, said at the bank’s  Tokyo  headquarters. “We want to
go to the market at least twice next year for dollar bond
sales.” The issuances depend on market conditions, he added.  Moody’s Investors Service upgraded its outlook for Japanese
banks to stable from negative in November, citing their improved
capital, asset quality, funding and liquidity. A retrenchment by
global banks, particularly from  Europe , has given Japanese
lenders greater opportunities to expand loans abroad, Moody’s
said in its first outlook change since 2008.  More Creditworthy  “With their stronger creditworthiness,  Sumitomo Mitsui  and
other Japanese megabanks won’t have a problem raising money from
dollar bond sales next year,” said Yoshinobu Yamada, a Tokyo-
based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG. “We should also keep an eye
on Sumitomo Mitsui’s investment in Asian lenders as I expect
they can afford to spend several billions of dollars.”  The cost of insuring bonds of lending unit Sumitomo Mitsui
Banking Corp. fell to 94 basis points this year from 182 at the
end of 2011, according to data provider CMA. The unit is  rated
Aa3  by Moody’s, the fourth-highest grade.  Shares of Sumitomo Mitsui rose 0.3 percent to 3,070 yen at
the midday break in Tokyo, extending this year’s advance to 43
percent.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) , Japan’s biggest
bank, has gained 37 percent and  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) , the
third largest, has climbed 44 percent.  Dollar Deposits  Sumitomo Mitsui has been building dollar deposits as well
as selling bonds in the currency. Deposits offshore rose 32
percent from a year earlier to $160 billion as of Sept. 30,
company data show.  The bank sold $1.5 billion of dollar bonds in January,
followed by $3 billion in July in a three-part offering that
included five-year debt with a 1.8 percent coupon. That’s higher
than the 0.28 percent on 60 billion yen of five-year notes sold
in October, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sumitomo Mitsui had $142 billion of loans outstanding
overseas as of Sept. 30, a 16 percent increase from a year
earlier, company figures show. Loans to  Asia  accounted for 39
percent, the Americas 32 percent and Europe the rest.  “Asia and  North America  will be our  main markets  for
lending,” said Miyata. “In the U.S., we’ll increase
transactions with blue-chip companies because I expect the
economy there to grow 2 percent next year.”  Dollar funding would also help Sumitomo Mitsui finance
investments in banks outside of Japan, especially  Southeast
Asia , Miyata said. He expects European banks will continue to
reduce their stakes in lenders in the region.  “Southeast Asia is the area that interests me,” said
Miyata, who became president in April 2011. “Dollar funding
would be crucial at the time of acquisition.”  Vietnam Presence  Mitsubishi UFJ is poised to sign an accord to buy a 20
percent stake in Vietnam Joint Stock Commercial Bank for
Industry and Trade, or  VietinBank (CTG) , from the Vietnamese
government as soon as today, two officials from the Tokyo-based
company said on Dec. 18. That would make it the third Japanese
megabank in five years to invest in a Vietnamese lender.  Sumitomo Mitsui bought 15 percent of Vietnam Export-Import
Commercial Joint Stock Bank, known as Eximbank, for $225 million
in 2007. The Japanese lender is also expanding in North Asia,
sealing a HK$3.3 billion ($425 million) accord this month to
double its stake in  Bank of East Asia Ltd. (23) ,  Hong Kong ’s largest
family-run bank, to 9.5 percent.  Miyata said a year ago that his bank would spend “several
hundred billion yen” on assets being sold by European banks.
Sumitomo Mitsui led a group that bought Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc’s aircraft leasing unit this year for $7.3 billion.  Consumer Finance  Sumitomo Mitsui is also looking to expand its  consumer
lending  in Asia, Miyata said in the interview. Its SMBC Consumer
Finance Co. unit -- created this year after the bank made
Promise Co. a wholly owned subsidiary -- is considering opening
a third office in mainland  China , he said, without elaborating
on the location or timing.  SMBC Consumer Finance has units in Shenyang and Shenzhen as
well as Hong Kong and Bangkok, according to its  website . Lending
outstanding in the four locations totaled 27 billion yen as of
Sept. 30, about 3.6 percent of SMBC Consumer Finance’s 746
billion yen of loans.  “Building on a company’s strengths is the key to success
in business,” Miyata said. “Consumer finance is one of our
strengths.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  