-- Syria Death Toll Rises as Kuwait Offers to Host Donor Conference
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u   a n d   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2012-12-25T14:12:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-25/syria-death-toll-rises-as-kuwait-offers-to-host-donor-conference.html
The Syrian death toll rose again
today as a mortar shell hit a building in central Damascus. More
than 60 people were killed in violence across the country,  Al
Arabiya  television said, citing activists.  The shelling occurred as leaders from the six-member Gulf
Cooperation Council, meeting in Manama today, said the Syrian
opposition should be supported as the legitimate representative
of the Syrian people. Kuwait said it would host an international
donors conference for  Syria  next month.  The humanitarian situation in Syria is “dire,” said
Bahrain’s Foreign Minister Sheikh Khalid Bin Ahmed Al Khalifa at
a news conference following the meeting of GCC heads of state.
GCC Secretary-General Abdel Latif al-Zayyani said the Kuwait
conference will be held on Jan. 30.  The violence continued a day after UN Special Envoy Lakhdar Brahimi met with President Bashar al-Assad in Damascus, saying
afterward that he found no indication of progress toward a
negotiated settlement. The bombing of a bakery in Helfeya this
week by government warplanes killed 94 people, according to
opposition groups. More than 44,000 people have died in the
conflict since March 2011, according to the U.K.-based Syrian
Observatory for  Human Rights .  Pope Benedict XVI  in a Christmas address decried the
slaughter of the “defenseless” in Syria, according to the
 Associated Press .  Heavy Weapons  International efforts to end the civil war have failed to
prevent the rising death toll as the government uses heavy
weapons to halt the rebellion. Russia and  China  have blocked two
UN Security Council resolutions to force an end to the fighting.  Syrian rebels said they captured a northern town, Harem in
Idlib province, early today after weeks of siege and heavy
fighting, the AP said, citing the Syrian Observatory for Human
Rights.  “Harem is fully liberated now,” the AP quoted Mohammed
Kanaan, an Idlib-based activist, as saying. Kanaan said the last
post to be taken in the town, close to the Turkish border, was
the historic citadel that the army had turned into a military
post, AP reported.  Syria’s former Foreign Ministry spokesman Jihad Makdissi
fled to the U.S. and was cooperating with American intelligence
officials, the Guardian reported today. Makdissi provided
information on the decision-making process in the top ranks of
the Syrian regime, the U.K. newspaper said, adding that the U.S.
had helped Makdissi escape to  Washington .  Al-Manar TV, the mouthpiece of Lebanon’s Iranian-backed
Hezbollah group, said Makdissi had been fired for making
statements that didn’t align with the government’s position. Al
Arabiya said Makdissi defected.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net ;
Wael Mahdi in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  