-- Lukoil Wins $1.7 Billion Siberian Oil Auction; Shares Rise
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2012-12-25T13:42:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-25/lukoil-wins-1-7-billion-siberian-oil-auction-shares-rise.html
OAO Lukoil, Russia’s second-biggest
oil producer, won the rights to three fields in western Siberia
after focusing on development overseas because of a lack of new
licenses. The shares rose the most in six days.  Lukoil bid 50.8 billion rubles ($1.67 billion), or twice
the starting price, for the Imilorskoye, Zapadno-Imilorskoye and
Istochnoye fields, the Federal Subsoil Agency said today in a
 statement  on its website. It beat the other two bidders, state-
run  OAO Rosneft (ROSN)  and OAO Gazprom Neft.  Russia’s biggest private oil producer has been expanding
internationally, with projects in West Africa,  Venezuela , Saudi
Arabia and  Iraq  because of a dearth of new fields at home and
declining output at older fields. Chief Executive Officer Vagit Alekperov in 2009 urged the government to be “more aggressive
in offering fields for geological surveys and exploration.” The
government should offer large fields that can be rapidly
developed in tenders to attract investors, Russian and
otherwise, Alekperov told Bloomberg Television at the time.  The fields have recoverable reserves of 193.7 million tons,
according to Russian classifications, Lukoil said in an e-mailed
statement. The winning price amounts to $1.20 per barrel of
reserves, according to the Moscow-based company.  ‘Clearly Positive’  “The oil production projects in  Russia  offer higher
profitability than foreign ones,” Mikhail Loshinin, an analyst
at RMG Research, said in a research note today. “So the news is
clearly positive for the company, even despite a rather high
price for the license.”  Lukoil rose as much as 0.6 percent in Moscow, the most
since Dec. 20, and the shares were up 0.5 percent to 2,016.50
rubles at 5:18 p.m.  Lukoil may produce about 6 million to 8 million tons of oil
at the site annually, or 7 percent to 9 percent of its total
production, Loshinin said.  The company already has infrastructure in the region and it
may seek a partner to develop the field to reduce risks and
capital expenditure, Loshinin said.  The government by law can award offshore fields only to
state-run companies such as Rosneft and OAO Gazprom without
auctions. The government is discussing options to broaden access
to offshore deposits.  Today’s auction was the last of the year. A TNK-BP unit won
the rights to develop the Lodochnoye oil field on Dec. 11 for
4.66 billion rubles. OAO Surgutneftegas, a Russian oil producer
operating in Siberia, gained the Shpilman field Dec. 18 for 46.2
billion rubles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  