-- Turkey Central Bank Unveils New Tool to Limit Bank Debt Risk
-- B y   D a v i d   N e y l a n
-- 2012-12-25T14:41:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-25/turkey-central-bank-unveils-new-tool-to-limit-bank-debt-risk.html
Turkey ’s central bank announced a
new policy tool today to limit risks of excessive debt in the
banking system by placing higher reserve requirements on banks
that fail to meet specified leverage ratios.  The bank will begin relying on a new leverage ratio
together with the capital adequacy ratio to guard against an
expansion in debt, central bank Governor Erdem Basci said at a
press conference in Ankara today. The measure will require banks
with leverage levels below 3.5 percent to hold additional
reserve requirements that will increase as the leverage ratio
decreases.  The leverage ratio is a measure of a bank’s equity divided
by its liabilities plus off-balance sheet items, the central
bank said in a report on its website today. Banks with a
leverage ratio of less than 3.5 percent will be subject to
additional reserve requirements of as much as two percentage
points starting in 2014, Basci said.  The move shows the bank’s determination in preventing
systemic risk in the banking system and will have little impact
because banks are not excessively leveraged, according to Emre Tekmen, an Istanbul-based economist at Turk Ekonomi Bankasi, BNP
Paribas SA’s Turkish unit.  Signaling Effect  “It has some signaling effect,” Tekmen said in response
to e-mailed questions today. “The market already knows that
macro-prudential measures will be more active in 2013.”  Only three banks in Turkey have a leverage ratio below 5
percent, Basci said, and none have a ratio below 3.5 percent. He
said that at the end of 2014, the threshold would be increased
to 4 percent and by the end of 2015, it would increase to 5
percent. Most banks’ ratios are above 7 percent, he said.  The chances of the new leverage ratio being used are
“quite slim,” Cevdet Akcay, chief economist at Yapi & Kredi
Bankasi AS, the bank part-owned by Italy’s  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , said
in a phone interview from Istanbul today. “It’s a new policy
tool, but it’s not going to be extremely significant.”  These measures are part of a broader global trend in which
“macro-prudential measures will be used more,” Aksay said. “In
the past, monetary and fiscal policies were applied, now it’s
going to be the new tool kit with monetary, fiscal and macro-
prudential policies.”  Preventive Measures  The loans-to-deposit ratio among Turkish banks was 104
percent, Banks Association of Turkey General Secretary Ekrem Keskin told reporters in Ankara on Dec. 14. A ratio of above 100
percent means banks rely on foreign funding to finance loan
growth.  “In Turkey, when banks expand their assets they do so by
increasing indebtedness,” Basci said today. “An excessive
risk-taking scenario in which the leverage ratio of many banks
would decline rapidly confirms the need to take preventive
measures.”  Last year, rapid consumer credit expansion helped widen
Turkey’s current-account deficit to about 10 percent of gross
domestic product. That contributed to an 18 percent loss in the
value of the lira and an  inflation rate  of 10.5 percent. Basci
said today that preventing loan growth from exceeding 15 percent
would “support price and financial stability.”  Inflation  The bank will remain committed to inflation targeting,
while monitoring the so-called real exchange rate index and
credit expansion as key ingredients in price stability, Basci
said.  The real exchange rate index measures the lira against the
currencies of its main trading partners. A reading of 130 or
above would signify “extreme volatility,” Basci said today.
Last month, Basci said that a reading above 120 would be cause
for concern as it suggested the lira was becoming overvalued.
The measure was at 119.2 in November.  The central bank’s new announcement is consistent with a
monetary policy stance that will “continue to be characterized
by short-term interest rates and tight macro-prudential
measures,”  Inan Demir , chief economist at Finansbank AS, the
Istanbul-based lender owned by National  Bank of Greece (TELL) , said in
an e-mailed report today.  “We foresee domestic demand accelerating in the upcoming
period, which would translate into excessive loan growth and
external balance deterioration in the absence of policy
response,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Neylan in Ankara at 
 dneylan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  