-- Vitol’s Malaysian Unit to Sell Ship Fuel at Port Near Singapore
-- B y   A n n   K o h   a n d   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2012-12-25T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-25/vitol-s-malaysian-unit-to-sell-ship-fuel-at-port-near-singapore.html
Vitol Group plans to start sales of
marine fuel, or bunkers, to a port in southern  Malaysia  as it
seeks to supply ship owners that moved from  Singapore , the
world’s second-biggest container port.  Vitol Trading Malaysia Labuan Ltd. may sell bunker cargoes
to shipping companies at Tanjung Pelepas, in the Malaysian state
of Johor, in about six months’ time, Managing Director Khairul
R. Ramly said in an interview on Dec. 17. Vitol wants to supply
about half of the bunker demand of 3 million metric tons a year
at the site, according to Khairul. It is located about 16 miles
(26 kilometers) from Singapore.  “We’ll start small bunker deliveries at Tanjung Pelepas
port,” said Khairul. “Maersk is a big shareholder, that’s the
first target. Hopefully we’ll get 50 percent of the market, not
in the first year, but slowly. People are calling us.”  Vitol is taking advantage of spill-over demand for
refueling services as vessel congestion grows in Singapore and
companies relocate. Potential customers include  AP Moeller-
Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) , the world’s largest container-shipping operator,
which moved its transshipment hub to the port from Singapore in
2000, said Khairul.  Evergreen Marine Corp. Taiwan Ltd. (2603) , the
operator of Asia’s largest container line, also moved there.  The fuel will come from a storage facility at Tanjung Bin,
less than a mile from Tanjung Pelepas, operated by VTTI, he
said. Vitol and  MISC Bhd. (MISC) , a Kuala Lumpur-based logistics
service provider and ship owner, jointly own VTTI, which can
store 900,000 cubic meters of oil product at its facility.  Capacity Expansion  “Growing this bunkering business is our first priority,
something that we should be very competitive in, because of
where we are,” Khairul said. “It’s five minutes for us to load
a cargo from Tanjung Bin instead of one and a half hours from
Singapore.”  Capacity may expand to as much as 1.6 million cubic meters,
with additional space offered to third parties in the third
quarter of next year, according to VTTI’s  website .  Singapore is the biggest bunkering port globally and
supplied a record 43.2 million tons last year, according to data
from the Maritime and Port Authority. The city-state is the
biggest container port after  Shanghai .  Vitol has four employees in its Malaysian office in Johor
who handle the trading, marketing and operations of domestic
contracts, Khairul said. The company also has plans to purchase
iron ore domestically for export to  China  next year, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net ;
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  