-- VW Races With GM for 2013 China Crown as Toyota Struggles
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-26T08:29:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-25/vw-races-with-gm-for-2013-china-crown-as-toyota-struggles-cars.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW)  will vie with  General
Motors Co. (GM)  for the sales crown among foreign automakers in China
next year, gaining share as Japanese carmakers led by  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203)  struggle to recover amid a territorial dispute.  VW, whose luxury Audi sedans are popular with Chinese
bureaucrats, hasn’t held the lead in the country since 2004 and
will probably sell 2.7 million vehicles in the country next year
to GM’s 2.65 million, helped by eight new or revamped models
including the Santana, Golf, Skoda Octavia and Audi Q3,
according to industry researcher JSC Automotive Consulting. GM’s
new offerings include the Cadillac XTS and three Opel models.  Passenger-vehicle sales in China will probably accelerate
and gain as much as 10 percent next year, as a rebound in
economic growth gathers strength, according to eight analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Chinese leaders assuming power in a
once-a-decade handover to be completed in March may introduce
economic stimulus to increase domestic demand, Autoforesight
Shanghai Co., LMC Automotive and Synergistics Ltd. forecast.  “When the economy stabilizes, Chinese consumers will have
more confidence to buy cars,” said Lin Huaibin, a Shanghai-
based analyst at IHS Automotive. “A lot of indicators have
shown economic improvement since September.”  Foreign automakers are stepping up their investments in
 China , counting on the world’s largest pool of first-time car
buyers to help offset declining sales in  Europe . Total vehicle
sales may surpass 19 million units this year, according to the
China Association of Automobile Manufacturers on Dec. 10.  Sales Crown  Globally, Toyota is poised to take back the title of
world’s biggest automaker for 2012, as VW fights GM for second
place in the final week of the year. Toyota said today its
vehicle sales may rise 2 percent next year to reach a record
9.91 million vehicles, spurred by overseas demand.  In China, SUVs will remain the fastest-growing segment as
it is “under-penetrated” and caters to the preference of
Chinese consumers for roomier vehicles, while smaller cities
will become more important for sales, said Steve Man, a Hong
Kong-based analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc.  The new leadership, helmed by Communist Party chief Xi
Jinping, must decide the pace of market-driven change to boost
consumer demand and balance the role of exports and investment.  China said it will seek a higher “quality and efficiency”
of growth next year, and target “sustained and healthy
development,” the state-run Xinhua News Agency reported Dec. 16
after a meeting of senior leaders in Beijing.  Economic Status  “The new government probably doesn’t want to start its
tenure with a weak economy, so in China that usually means more
investment spending,” said Bill Russo, president of
Synergistics Limited. “The commercial-vehicle segment could be
a beneficiary of any economic stimulus as businesses replace
products like trucks for construction projects.”  Sales of commercial vehicles, which include buses and
trucks, are down 6.8 percent in the first 11 months of this
year, compared with a 7.1 percent gain in passenger vehicles,
according to auto association data.  The pace of sales may slow in China if more cities
implement or tighten measures to control vehicle populations to
curb pollution and traffic congestion.  By 2020, another 20 Chinese cities may exceed the car-
density threshold of 250 vehicles per kilometer of road,
according to McKinsey & Co., which may prompt officials to
impose similar restrictions to those in Beijing, Guangzhou and
Shanghai.  Santana, Skoda  For Wolfsburg, Germany-based VW, a revamped Santana sedan
and expansion of its Skoda brand will help the automaker push
into the less-developed Chinese cities, which China Executive
Vice President Soh Weiming said last month was its “bread and
butter.”  The company didn’t respond to e-mail and phone requests for
comment on its plans for China.  The Santana, which starts at 84,900  yuan  ($13,625) for the
revamped version, is the 10th best-selling car in the country
this year, according to the auto association. GM’s Buick Excelle
topped the list, with  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Focus in second place and
the Chevrolet Sail and Cruze in third and seventh. VW’s Lavida,
 Passat (PSAT) , Jetta, Bora and  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ’s Elantra Yue Dong
make up the rest of the top 10 models.  Sales for VW’s mass-market brand Skoda, the Czech carmaker
that it took over after the collapse of Communism, rose 6.8
percent to 181,900 units in China in the first nine months,
company data show. The country became Skoda’s biggest market in
2010, three years after it started local production.  VW Expansion  “Volkswagen is currently in a position where they can look
with a lot of confidence into the next year,” said Klaus Paur,
the Shanghai-based global head of automotive coverage at
researcher Ipsos. “The Volkswagen portfolio is quite wide. If
you take it from a group perspective, maybe they could be number
one.”  Along with its joint venture partners, Volkswagen will
invest 9.8 billion euros ($13 billion) in new production
facilities and products through 2015. GM said last year it
planned to invest as much as $7 billion in China in the five
years to 2015.  GM could fend off VW with new models coming up next year,
such as the Buick Lacrosse and Regal, according to IHS.  “We don’t get too hung up on trying to, in a single year,
be too concerned about number one position,” Bob Socia, GM
China president, said in a Dec. 18 interview in  Shanghai . “But
make no bones about it, we’re here to win.”  More Showrooms  GM has the capabilities in manufacturing, dealership and
product to compete with the “best of them,” he said. The
automaker plans to open 400 more showrooms across its brands
next year in China, bringing its total to about 4,200 in the
world’s largest vehicle market.  The Detroit-based automaker’s joint venture with SAIC and
Wuling Motors, which builds mini-commercial vehicles, will
construct a third manufacturing plant in China and increase
production capability to 2 million annually at the end of 2015.  In China, Japanese automakers will play catch-up as they
step up efforts to regain market share lost after tensions
soared over sovereignty of a group of uninhabited islands known
as Senkaku in  Japan  and Diaoyu in China.  Japanese automakers may suffer production cuts into 2014
and lose a combined 650,000 units in vehicle output if tensions
don’t abate between the two countries, according to IHS
estimates.  That could hurt Toyota, Nissan Motor Co. and  Honda Motor
Co. (7267) ’s plans to reach first-time buyers in smaller Chinese
cities, where car sales is estimated to grow around 10 percent
annually till 2020, compared with 4 percent in larger cities
like Shanghai and Beijing, according to McKinsey.  ‘Very Tough’  The situation in China is still “very tough,”  Akio Toyoda , Toyota’s president, said on Dec. 20 at a briefing of the
Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association, which he chairs. “I
hope for the situation to recover as soon as possible.”  Sales of Japanese brands began to show evidence of a
recovery in November, according to the Chinese auto association.  “The winter for Japanese brand cars is over,” said Dong
Yang, secretary general of the industry group, in Beijing on
Dec. 10. “The winter for China’s indigenous auto brands
continues. They may face even more challenges next year than
this year.”  Chinese automakers’ collective market share in the first 10
months slipped to 41 percent from 42.2 percent a year earlier,
according to  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)   Market Share  Foreign automakers will continue to gain market share at
the expense of local Chinese carmakers as the Chinese consumer
becomes more sophisticated and differentiates between products
and brands, said  Max Warburton , a Singapore-based auto analyst
at Bernstein.  Carmakers like VW will compete to hold on to existing
customers like Zhou Weiguo and try to win new converts.  “The quality of a Volkswagen car is undisputed,” Zhou,
54, said while browsing in a Volkswagen dealership in Shanghai
on a weekday afternoon. “There isn’t much of a need for
maintenance and the cars don’t age or deteriorate quickly.”  The Shanghai schoolteacher bought his first car -- a
Santana -- more than a decade ago and plans to stick to the
brand. He is considering the Tiguan SUV to replace his Touran.  “If I had to change a brand for my next car, I might
consider an Audi,” he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  