-- Yen Declines to 27-Month Low as Abe Pushes for Stimulus
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-12-26T22:03:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-25/yen-near-20-month-low-as-abe-set-to-become-japan-prime-minister.html
The yen fell against the dollar to
the lowest level since September 2010 as  Japan ’s Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe said he would push for “bold monetary easing.”  The Japanese currency slid versus all its major peers as
minutes of the  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s November meeting showed that a
board member suggested conducting open-ended asset purchases.
 Brazil ’s real gained the most among major currencies as the
central bank intervened to stem declines. The  Dollar Index  fell
as House Speaker  John Boehner  said the Senate must act on
legislation to avert the so-called fiscal cliff.  “We’ve seen the new government in Japan, for months now
really, pledge to the market that they will adopt a very
expansionary fiscal strategy and exert pressure on the Bank of
Japan to continue easing monetary policy,”  Omer Esiner , chief
market analyst in  Washington  at Commonwealth Foreign Exchange
Inc., a currency brokerage, said today in a telephone interview.
“That’s certainly negative for the yen and it represents a
fundamental shift in the direction of the yen and is likely to
result in long-term secular declines for the yen into 2013.”  The Japanese currency depreciated 1 percent to 85.63 per
dollar at 5:02 p.m. New York time, after touching the weakest
level since Sept. 21, 2010. It depreciated 1.3 percent to 113.24
per euro, reaching the least since August 2011. The European
currency added 0.3 percent to $1.3224.  Markets in  Canada ,  Australia  and the U.K. were shut for a
holiday.  Yearly Update  The yen has tumbled 13.7 percent this year, the biggest
drop among the 10 developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar is the
second-worst performer with a 2.8 percent slide, while the euro
has lost 0.6 percent.  The losses for the Japanese currency have accelerated in
December, with it declining 3.7 percent versus the dollar,
bringing its quarter-to-date loss to 8.9 percent. The real is
the best-performer this month against the 16 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg, advancing 4.2 percent versus the dollar.
That pares its loss since the end of September to 1.1 percent.  “Using the central bank to weaken the currency is viewed
as win-win in a deflationary economy,” said Steven Englander,
head of Group of 10 currency strategy at Citigroup Inc. in  New
York . “He obviously feels he has a mandate and so far he has
been going further, faster in advocating BOJ ease than was
expected.”  The yen’s slide accelerated today after the currency hit 85
per dollar, triggering stop-loss orders, according to Yousuke Hosokawa, the foreign-exchange head in  Tokyo  at the marketing
unit of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank Ltd. A stop-loss order is an
automatic instruction to buy or sell a currency at a certain
level to limit losses.  A further decline in the yen against the euro and dollar
may be limited as the 14-day relative strength index for both
pairs remains below the 30 level, which indicates price moves
are extreme and may be due for a rebound. The gauge was 22.8
versus the euro and 21.3 against the greenback.  Real Strength  Brazil’s real gained against all its major counterparts,
rising 1.5 percent to 2.0491 per dollar.  The currency rose to a seven-week high as the central bank
sold 27,500 of 40,000 currency swaps at its first auction today
and 9,500 out of 40,000 at a second offering. Swap rates dropped
as speculation eased that policy makers will boost the benchmark
lending rate, known as the Selic, to cap consumer prices.  President  Barack Obama  and Congress plan to return to
Washington tomorrow after an abbreviated Christmas holiday.  The Senate must act to avert the so-called cliff, and then
the House will consider “whatever the Senate can pass,” Ohio
Republican Boehner said in a  statement . “The lines of
communication remain open, and we will continue to work with our
colleagues.”  The Dollar Index, which tracks the currency against those
of six major trading partners, fell 0.1 percent to 79.612.  Abe said in a speech in Tokyo today he would carry out a
flexible fiscal policy. Taro Aso was named finance chief today.
During his 12 months as prime minister through September 2009,
the one-time Olympian compiled three extra budgets worth about
20 trillion yen, abandoned a target to balance the budget by
March 2012 and distributed a 12,000 yen-per-person cash handout.  BOJ Policy  An unnamed BOJ board member said that an option would be to
“clearly present” in a policy statement that the central bank
would continue monetary easing, including asset purchases,
“without setting any time frame” until 1 percent inflation is
achieved, the  minutes  showed. The BOJ’s 76 trillion-yen ($890
billion) program that buys securities ranging from  government
bonds  to stock funds will expire at the end of next year.  “A dovish message came through loud and clear,”  Gareth Berry  and  Geoffrey Yu , foreign-exchange strategists at UBS AG,
wrote in a research note today about the minutes. “It would
appear that the sands are shifting not just in Japan’s political
arena, but amongst BOJ policy board members as well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  