-- HP Investor’s Suit Targeting Hurd’s Severance Thrown Out
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-06-22T20:35:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-14/hewlett-packard-had-grounds-to-fire-hurd-unsealed-lawsuit-says.html
A judge threw out a  Hewlett-Packard
Co. (HPQ)  investor’s lawsuit challenging a $40 million severance
payment to former Chief Executive Officer  Mark Hurd  after
finding it didn’t amount to a waste of corporate assets.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge Donald Parsons in Wilmington
yesterday concluded that Hewlett-Packard’s board made a good-
faith decision to honor Hurd’s severance agreement after he quit
in 2010 amid allegations that he had an inappropriate
relationship with a company contractor. Hurd, 55, is now co-
president of software maker  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)   “Without question, the amount of Hurd’s severance may
appear extremely rich or altogether distasteful to some,”
Parsons said in a 30-page ruling. Still, the directors’ decision
was a “valid exercise” of business judgment, the judge said.  Hurd resigned as HP’s  chairman  and CEO in August 2010
after an internal investigation of a sexual harassment-
allegation made by Jodie Fisher, a company contractor, found
that he violated the company’s business-conduct standards. HP
officials said they didn’t find that Hurd had violated the
computer maker’s harassment policy.  Shelby Watts, a spokeswoman for  Palo Alto , California-based
Hewlett-Packard, didn’t immediately return a call seeking
comment on the judge’s decision.  Lawrence Zucker, the shareholder who filed the lawsuit,
argued that Hewlett-Packard directors had grounds to fire Hurd
without paying severance and should be held personally liable
for wasting company funds.  Parsons said the board could have rationally concluded that
the company had received value from Hurd during his years as its
top executive and that the severance package was deserved.  “Denying Hurd any severance despite the admittedly
considerable value that he has contributed to HP could have
undermined its efforts to attract outside executive talent,”
the judge wrote.  The case is Zucker v. Andreessen, CA6014, Delaware Chancery
Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  