-- Priebus of Wisconsin Succeeds Steele as National Republican Party Chairman
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2011-01-15T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-01-14/steele-bids-to-keep-party-chairman-s-job-as-republicans-gather.html
Reince Priebus, the newly elected
chairman of the  Republican National Committee , inherits a party
organization plagued by debt and internal squabbles as it
prepares for the 2012 effort to defeat an incumbent president.  Priebus, 38, won the post in part by touting his record as
 head of the party  in  Wisconsin , where significant gains were
made in November.  After his selection yesterday at a RNC meeting near  Washington , he pledged to confront the challenges and run the
party in a way that will win back the trust of financial donors
needed to challenge President  Barack Obama ’s re-election bid.  “We’re going to start by putting a solid business plan in
place to operate effectively and efficiently to begin to restore
the faith of our donors,” he said. “We must know how to spend
these funds effectively.”  Priebus defeated the incumbent chairman,  Michael Steele ,
who had become caught up in controversies over how the party was
run during his two years at the helm, and three other candidates.  Even as Republicans won control of the U.S. House by
picking up 63 seats in November’s midterm elections, Steele came
under attack over his management of the organization’s money and
message, with members blaming him for the $20 million in debt
that undercut efforts to promote the party’s candidates.  “You all are the board of directors,” Priebus told the
168 RNC members during his victory speech. “And while I may be
the CEO, we must all remember that each of us, every one of us,
is still an employee to Republican voters.”  Republicans in Wisconsin won the governorship in November,
as well as a  U.S. Senate  seat held by Democrat Russ Feingold.
They also picked up two House seats in the state’s eight-member
delegation and gained control of both chambers of the state
legislature.  Seven Ballots Needed  Following seven rounds of balloting at the  Gaylord National
Hotel & Convention Center  in Oxon Hill,  Maryland , Priebus won 97
votes, with 85 needed. Saul Anuzis, a former state chairman in  Michigan , had 43 votes, followed by Maria Cino, a veteran
Republican operative supported by House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio , with 28. Steele and Ann Wagner, a former ambassador to  Luxembourg , ended their candidacies after earlier tallies.  “Let’s come together and let’s get ready to elect
Republicans,” Priebus, a former RNC general counsel, told the
members, who are selected by state-level party activists.  Backers of Priebus included Henry Barbour, a nephew of
Mississippi Governor Haley Barbour, a former RNC chairman.  Steele Supporter  Priebus was among the first members of the RNC to endorse
Steele’s 2009 bid for the chairmanship, and he managed Steele’s
campaign. After Steele won, becoming the committee’s first black
chairman, he asked Priebus to lead his transition.  Priebus climbed the party’s ranks in Wisconsin, beginning
as a local activist and becoming state chairman in 2007.  A 1998 graduate of the  University of Miami School of Law ,
Priebus also attended the University of Wisconsin-Whitewater,
according to a  biography  on the website of his Milwaukee law
firm.  Steele’s totals declined with each round of the voting and
he announced his withdrawal after the fourth round. He urged his
supporters to back Cino.  “It is very clear the party wants to do something a little
different, and hopefully a little bit better,” he said.  During his tenure, Steele often was in the spotlight for
verbal gaffes and for statements that were controversial within
the party. He faced more criticism after financial reports
showed that in February 2010, the party paid almost $2,000 for
meals at a bondage-themed nightclub in West Hollywood,  California , that featured topless dancers.  ‘Wildly Inaccurate’  In July, Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona , the party’s 2008
presidential nominee, criticized as “wildly inaccurate” a
comment by Steele that the conflict in  Afghanistan , which began
after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, “was a war of
Obama’s choosing.”  And shortly after he was elected in January 2009, Steele
said he wanted to apply Republican principles to “urban-
suburban hip-hop settings.” The comment became fodder for
comedians and critics because the party didn’t have a single
black member in the House or the Senate at the time.  Chosen as party chairman 10 days after the inauguration of
the country’s first black president, Steele, 52, won his post by
stressing the importance of reaching out to minorities. He
embodied the party’s hopes for improving its ability to compete
with Democrats for support from minority voters.  “We have been through some big storms, some small
storms,” Steele said in his withdrawal speech. “But this storm
you cannot allow to continue. We must heal ourselves, we must go
forward together and we must win.”  He called on the party to rally together to claim the U.S.
Senate and the White House in 2012.  “I thank you for the opportunity to serve and to lead,”
Steele said. “And now, I exit stage right.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Oxon Hill, Maryland at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 