-- Actelion Gains as Elliott Wants Sale Option Examined
-- B y   M a t t h i a s   W a b l   a n d   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2011-02-04T17:46:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/actelion-gains-in-zurich-elliott-fund-pushes-for-ouster-of-ceo-chairman.html
  Actelion Ltd . rose the most in more
than 11 weeks in Zurich trading after hedge fund Elliott
Associates LP said the chairman should resign, the chief
executive officer should step down from the board and that
the Swiss biotechnology company should study a sale.  The proposals “risk destabilizing the company,” Actelion
wrote in a response after trading closed today, saying it needs
to focus on bringing new medicines to market and hasn’t received
an acquisition offer. Actelion said it made its response public
"with reluctance" after Elliott "surprised and disappointed" the
company by disclosing discussions with Vice Chairman Joe Scodari.  Actelion has long maintained it will remain independent.
Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul Clozel met in December with  Amgen Inc . to discuss the U.S. company’s interest in the Swiss
manufacturer and no formal offer was made, according to three
people with knowledge of the matter. A purchase of Allschwil-
based Actelion, which makes the Tracleer lung medicine, would
give Amgen, the world’s largest biotechnology company, a lineup
of therapies for cardiovascular diseases.  “Your proposal equates to asking the company to put itself
up for sale,” Scodari, who met with Elliott on Jan. 25, wrote
in an open letter provided to reporters, adding that retaining
control of “one of the richest pipelines of compounds in the
industry” would benefit shareholders more.  The shares gained 2.1 francs, or 4 percent, to 54.6 francs,
the biggest jump since Nov. 17, valuing the manufacturer at 7.02
billion francs ($7.34 billion).  ‘No Choice’  “Shareholders are being given no choice regarding the
future direction and management,” Elliott Associates said in
its letter, according to an e-mailed copy the fund provided to
journalists. “Shareholders are consequently not being given the
choice to decide for themselves whether Actelion’s current
independent strategy is the best way forward.” The fund said it
controls a 6 percent stake.  Clozel’s “public statements and apparent campaign to keep
the company independent are wholly inconsistent with his
position as a board member and the fiduciary requirements of
that role,” Elliott said.  The chief executive has presided over a share gain of more
than 300 percent, Scodari wrote in his reply, adding that the
board is certain of Chairman Robert Cawthorn’s “complete
independence and ability to act in the interest of all
shareholders.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthias Wabl in Zurich at 
 mwabl@bloomberg.net ;
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 