-- Madoff Trustee Seeks $295 Million From Mets Owners in Unsealed Lawsuit
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2011-02-04T22:43:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/madoff-trustee-seeks-295-million-from-mets-owners-in-suit-over-ponzi-gain.html
The trustee in the Bernard Madoff
bankruptcy is seeking more than $295 million from the owners of
the  New York Mets , claiming they ignored warnings of the fraud
because they were “in too deep” financially.  In a complaint unsealed today, the trustee,  Irving Picard ,
is seeking to recover alleged phony profits from Madoff’s scheme
from Sterling Equities Inc., which owns the Mets baseball team,
along with Mets LP, Mets Chairman Fred Wilpon, Mets president
Saul Katz and chief operating officer Jeff Wilpon, and almost
100 related parties. Picard also claims an unspecified amount of
principal from the Sterling defendants.  “The Sterling partners were simply in too deep -- having
substantially supported their businesses with Madoff money -- to
do anything but ignore the gathering clouds,” according to the
complaint. “Despite being on notice and having every resource
at their disposal to investigate the litany of legitimate
questions surrounding Madoff, the Sterling partners chose to do
nothing.”  The complaint was filed under seal Dec. 7, to facilitate
settlement negotiations in the case, the trustee and the owners
said. Yesterday, both sides sent letters to U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge Burton R. Lifland in  Manhattan  telling him that the talks
had ended amid media disclosure of some of the contents of the
complaint.  ‘Strong Arm’  “The trustee’s lawsuit is an outrageous ‘strong arm’
effort to try to force a settlement by threatening to ruin our
reputations and businesses which we have built for over 50
years,” Fred Wilpon and Saul Katz said in a statement today.
They called the allegations in the complaint “abusive, unfair
and untrue.”  The Sterling partners had more than $500 million in their
Madoff accounts at the time of his failure, their lawyers said
in a statement today.  Wilpon and Katz said that none of the Sterling partners
ever suspected Madoff was running a fraud.  According to the complaint, the Mets used $90 million in
Madoff profits to help fund the team’s day-to-day operations.  Sterling also used Madoff profits to meet capital
commitments for its real estate funds, Picard said in the
filing. Madoff profits also provided  cash flow  for Sterling’s
internal bank, “a clearing house” for funds and obligations
among Sterling partners, their families and trusts, he said.  ‘Close Friendship’  Picard claimed that the Wilpon and Katz families had a
“close friendship” with Madoff and his family that began in
the late 1970s, often inviting him to weddings and bar mitzvahs.  The relationship between Madoff and the Wilpons started
with their children, according to the complaint. Fred Wilpon’s
son Jeffrey and Madoff’s sons, Mark and Andrew, attended school
together.  Sterling, founded in 1972, opened its first Madoff account
in 1985. Madoff held Mets season tickets with seats close to
Fred Wilpon and Saul Katz.  Picard said Fred Wilpon, Saul Katz and Sterling Equities
were “sophisticated investors” who should have known the
returns they were getting from Madoff were impossible to
sustain. They turned a blind eye to warnings about Madoff and
opened 483 accounts with Madoff. The Sterling partners’ family,
trusts and other entities held about 300 accounts, making them
one of the biggest beneficiaries of Madoff’s fraud, Picard
claimed.  Koufax, Teufel  The rest of the accounts, including their employees’ 401(k)
savings plan, were invested with Madoff, Picard said in the
complaint.  Sandy Koufax , the Hall of Fame pitcher, and Tim Teufel, who played second base for the Mets team that won the
1986  World Series , had Madoff accounts through Sterling.  Sterling ignored specific warnings about Madoff, from
advisers and business partners including Merrill Lynch & Co. and
from Sterling Stamos, a hedge fund run by Sterling and Peter Stamos, chairman of  Major League Baseball ’s investment advisory
board.  The firm continued to invest with Madoff even after losing
money to the $400 million Bayou Group LLC  Ponzi scheme 
orchestrated by the hedge fund’s co-founder, Samuel Israel III.  “There are thousands of victims of Madoff’s massive Ponzi
scheme,” Picard said in the complaint. “But Saul Katz is not
one of them. Neither is Fred Wilpon. And neither are the rest of
the partners at Sterling Equities.”  The Wilpons said last week that they might sell as much as
25 percent of the Mets because of Picard’s lawsuit, after
insisting for months that the club was safe from the biggest
Ponzi scheme in U.S. history.  150 Years  Madoff, 72, pleaded guilty to masterminding the fraud in
March 2009 and is serving a 150-year prison sentence. At the
time of his arrest in December 2008, his account statements
reflected 4,900 accounts with stated balances of $68 billion.
Investors lost about $20 billion in principal, Picard has said.  In addition to its direct losses on its Madoff investments,
Sterling used its Madoff accounts as collateral for loans,
according to the Picard complaint. Sterling faced “a liquidity
crisis” when Madoff’s fraud was revealed in late 2008 and was
forced to restructure more than $500 million in debt, Picard
claimed.  At a news conference in October, Fred Wilpon said the Mets
“absolutely” have the financial resources to pursue free
agents and field a winning team. Later that day, in an interview
on New York’s WFAN Radio,  Jeff Wilpon  said the Mets hadn’t been
financially damaged by the family’s investment losses in the
Madoff fraud.  Adviser Hired  The father and son owners said Jan. 28 that they hired
Steve Greenberg, a managing director at Allen & Co., as their
adviser to address “the air of uncertainty” created by the
lawsuit. On a conference call, the Wilpons said they would
remain principal owners.  The Mets were the third-highest-valued team in the major
leagues at $858 million, behind the Yankees, at $1.6 billion,
and  Boston Red Sox , at $870 million, Forbes magazine said in
April 2010. It said the Mets’ value had dropped 6 percent from
2009, with $268 million in revenue and operating income of $26.2
million.  A sale of 20 percent to 25 percent, as outlined by the
Wilpons, would be worth $171.6 million to $214.5 million, based
on the Forbes figures. Greenberg said the market for the team
“has never been stronger.”  Citi Field  The Wilpons said any sale wouldn’t involve Citi Field,
their home stadium, or SportsNet  New York , their regional sports
network. That unit was created by Sterling Entertainment
Enterprises, Time Warner Inc. and Comcast Corp. in 2006,
according to the network’s website.  Fred Wilpon and Nelson Doubleday purchased the Mets for
$80.8 million in 1986, after Doubleday & Co. was purchased by
Bertelsmann AG. The co-owners’ relationship deteriorated and
Wilpon bought Doubleday’s share of the team for $131 million in
August 2002, according to the New York Times.  The complaint quotes from e-mails that purport to show that
people at Sterling were warned that Madoff was running a fraud.
In one e-mail from 2008, sent the day after Madoff was arrested,
a Sterling Stamos employee wrote:  “Our CIO always said it was a scam ‘too good to be true.’
Well, there (you) go. It was too good to be true.”  The case is Picard v. Katz, 10-AP-5287,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drvoella@bloomberg.net . 