-- Aetna To Pay `Meaningful' Dividend, Plans to Make Acquisitions, CFO Says
-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 2011-02-04T21:23:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/aetna-starts-quarterly-dividend-raises-annual-payout-13-fold-shares-jump.html
  Aetna Inc . has $1.2 billion in cash
to make acquisitions and share repurchases even after paying a
15-cent quarterly dividend in April, said Chief Financial
Officer Joseph Zubretsky.  The third-biggest U.S. health insurer said today it will
increase its annual shareholder payout and issued a 2011
forecast that beat analyst estimates by up to 61 cents. Aetna,
based in Hartford,  Connecticut , forecast profit of $3.70 to
$3.80 a share, exceeding the $3.29 average estimate of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Aetna paid a 4-cent dividend in November.  Aetna’s ability to invest and grow through acquisition
won’t be affected by the April payment to investors, Zubretsky
said in a telephone interview. Aetna reported $1.8 billion in
cash as of Sept. 30, according to Bloomberg data, and now has
$1.2 billion available for deals and share repurchases, he
said.ae  “Our old dividend was a nominal dividend, not really
meaningful,” Zubretsky said. “I would say that this marks the
introduction of a meaningful dividend for shareholders.”   Aetna rose $4.15, or 12 percent, to $37.42 at 4 p.m. in  New
York  Stock Exchange composite trading. It was the biggest
single-day gain since July 2009. The shares increased 28 percent
over the past 12 months.  Aetna has created a team to study acquisitions and
diversification opportunities, said  Ana Gupte , an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein in New York. It’s likely the insurer will
use the money to buy service operations similar to Medicity
Inc., which Aetna purchased last month for $500 million, rather
than building enrollment, she said.  Share Repurchase  Analysts questioned how much money would be left for
investment or acquisitions after Aetna announced Dec. 3 its
board authorized the repurchase of $750 million in shares in
addition to $257 million in outstanding repurchase authority.  “To our understanding, a large part of the $1.2 billion
goes to stock repurchase,” David Windley, an analyst at
Jefferies & Co. in Nashville,  Tennessee , said in an e-mail.
“The remainder for acquisitions is much smaller.”  The insurer also reported fourth-quarter profit excluding
some items of 63 cents a share, 1 cent more than the average
estimate of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Net income rose
30 percent to 215.6 million, or 53 cents a share, from $165.9
million, or 38 cents, a year earlier.  Enrollment Declines  Aetna’s enrollment numbers fell to 18.5 million, down 2.4
percent from the 18.9 million it reported at the end of the
2009. First-quarter 2011 enrollment may dip to 17.8 million,
Aetna reported, after the company was banned in April by the
Centers for the Medicare and Medicaid Services from selling
Medicare Advantage plans and standalone prescription drug plans
for those in the U.S. government’s health program for the
elderly and disabled.  Aetna also is seeing losses in its commercial enrollment
because of job losses and a refusal to match all prices in the
marketplace, Zubretsky said.  “We always try to grow and grow profitably,” Zubretsky
said in the interview. “When confronted with situations where
we cannot do both, we always try to maintain our margin.”  Zubretsky said he was disappointed with the membership
numbers though Aetna projects enrollment will be unchanged for
the year.  Expanding Services  The insurer is actively seeking acquisitions with an
emphasis on commercial health plans, Medicare and Medicaid plans
and service-based operations similar to its health-data deal for
Medicity. The service areas may also include disease management
and wellness operations, he said.    UnitedHealth Group Inc ., the largest health insurer by
sales, raised its annual dividend to 50 cents a share from 3
cents in 2010.  “There are limited areas for reinvestment of  cash flow  in
this business for companies this large,”  Jason Gurda , an
analyst at Leerink Swann & Co. in New York said in an e-mail.
“However, I had thought that Aetna would wait another year or
so before raising their dividend.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Larkin in  Washington  at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net ;
Pat Wechsler in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 