-- AIG Hires New York Fed’s Peters After Repaying Loan
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s ,   B r a d l e y   K e o u n   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2011-02-04T17:53:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/aig-hires-new-york-fed-s-brian-peters-to-risk-management-after-paying-loan.html
  American International Group Inc .
hired Federal Reserve Bank of New York veteran Brian Peters to
help manage risk after the bailed-out insurer paid down a  credit
line  with the regulator.  Peters is joining as a senior managing director in the
enterprise risk management group, according to a Jan. 18 memo to
staff from Sid Sankaran, chief risk officer. The insurer was
rescued by the Fed in 2008 and repaid the last $21 billion it
owed the regulator on Jan. 14. Peters was senior vice president
in risk management at the New York Fed, where he helped oversee
the 12 “largest and most systemically important financial
institutions and industry utilities,” according to the memo.  “In his 20-year career at the central bank, Brian played
critical roles in addressing the most challenging issues for the
financial industry,” Sankaran wrote in the memo, obtained by
Bloomberg News. “Brian will be a key member of the AIG team
responsible for working on regulatory issues.”  AIG has been overhauling risk management, and named
Sankaran in November to replace  Robert Lewis , who stepped down
after about 17 years at AIG and said in June that the New York-
based insurer underestimated the danger of subprime loans. AIG
on Jan. 27 named Charlie Shamieh to the newly created post of
senior vice president-corporate chief actuary.  Peters moved in May to the New York Fed’s research and
statistics division after working in bank supervision, according
to two people familiar with his work history who declined to be
identified because the regulator didn’t publicly announce his
departure.  Treasury’s Stake  “Mr. Peters is a superb risk professional and we are
pleased that he has joined AIG,” Mark Herr, a spokesman for the
company, said in an e-mailed statement. “As is standard, he has
agreed not to engage in business dealings with the FRBNY, the
Federal Reserve Board or the U.S. Department of Treasury for six
months.”  AIG is preparing for independence from government ownership
after repaying the Fed and converting Treasury’s preferred stake
into common stock last month. Treasury owns 92 percent of the
company’s shares after investing about $49 billion through the
end of last year and plans to dispose of its stake in stock
offerings.  Peters has a master’s of business administration from New
York University’s Stern School of Business and an undergraduate
degree from Bucknell University.  Jack Gutt , a spokesman for the
New York Fed, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  