-- American Waistlines Expand at Fastest Pace Among Rich Nations, Study Finds
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2011-02-04T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/american-waistlines-expand-at-fastest-pace-among-rich-nations-study-finds.html
Americans grew fatter at a faster
pace than residents of any other wealthy nation since 1980,
during a period when obesity worldwide nearly doubled,
researchers found.  Almost 10 percent of the world’s population was obese in
2008, according to  studies  published today by the medical
journal  The Lancet . The percentage of people with uncontrolled
hypertension, or high blood pressure, fell, with high-income
countries showing a larger drop. Cholesterol levels declined in  North America ,  Australia  and  Europe , but increased in East and
Southeast Asia as well as the Pacific region, researchers said.  The rise in obesity, as measured by body mass index, is
worrying and may lead to an increase in diabetes, said  Majid
Ezzati  of Imperial College  London , who led the research. Ezzati
suggested taxing sugary drinks and sweets as well as rethinking
transportation, such as adding bike lanes.  “We are at best buying some time” Ezzati said in an
interview yesterday. “We have to get very serious about BMI,
beyond good intentions.” Policy changes may begin to reduce
obesity in as little as five years, he said.  The findings about Americans and obesity add to evidence
that the U.S. has a weight problem. About 68 percent of American
adults are overweight, raising their risk of diabetes,  heart
disease , high blood pressure and cancer, according to the 2008
National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey. Almost 34
percent are obese.  Slim Singaporeans  Researchers from Imperial College, Harvard University’s
 School of Public Health  and other institutions analyzed
government statistics and multinational studies to track changes
in body mass index, cholesterol levels and blood pressure.  Body mass index considers a person’s weight relative to
their height. A reading of over 30 is considered obese, while
more than 25 is overweight.  In 2008, 9.8 percent of men and 13.8 percent of women
globally were obese, compared with 4.8 and 7.9 percent
respectively in 1980, the researchers found. Among rich nations
in 2008, the U.S. had the highest BMI at 28 on average, followed
by  New Zealand . Japan had the lowest index, about 22 for women
and 24 for men. Singapore residents were the second slimmest.  The U.S. saw the fastest rise of body mass, about 1 point
per decade during the 28 years of the study, of any wealthy
nation, the researchers found.  Risk Factor  An increased body mass index is a risk factor for
cardiovascular disease, diabetes, cancer and ailments of the
muscles and the skeleton, leading to 3 million deaths worldwide
annually, according to the studies. High blood pressure is the
leading risk factor for cardiovascular deaths, killing 7 million
each year, while high cholesterol leads to about 4.4 million
deaths each year, the study said.  Controlling blood pressure, total cholesterol and smoking
will cut cardiovascular disease rates, even if obesity and
diabetes rise,  Salim Yusuf  and  Sonia Anand  of McMaster
University in  Canada , said in an accompanying editorial.  On average, Pacific Islanders have the highest body mass
index in the world, reaching 34 to 35, 70 percent higher than
countries in sub-Saharan Africa and countries in Southeast Asia.
In Europe, Turkish and Czech women are the heftiest, while Swiss
females were the slimmest.  The second study showed that blood pressure is highest in
the Baltic region as well as East and West African countries.
Portugal, Finland and  Norway  have the highest blood pressure
readings of rich countries, while  South Korea ,  Cambodia ,
Australia, Canada and the U.S. had some of the lowest.  Western European countries including Greenland, Iceland,
Andorra, and  Germany  led global cholesterol levels. African
countries have the lowest cholesterol.  Among high-income countries in the west,  Greece  has the
lowest cholesterol for men and women, while the U.S., Canada,
and  Sweden  also had low cholesterol.  The work is part of the  Global Burden of Diseases, Injuries
and Risk Factors Study , which is supported by the Bill and
Melinda Gates Foundation. The study also received funding from
the  World Health Organization .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  