-- American, Southwest Add Dallas Flights as Super Bowl Fans Sweat Over Ice
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n ,   T h o m a s   K o r o s e c   a n d   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2011-02-04T21:24:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/american-southwest-have-extra-flights-for-super-bowl-correct-.html
Pittsburgh Steelers and  Green Bay 
Packers fans headed to  Super Bowl XLV  have a narrow window left
to reach Dallas, where snow and ice snarled air and ground
travel for much of the week.  Some gave up and are selling their game tickets, pushing
prices down. Others are rebooking commercial flights and taking
chartered airplanes.  “We are putting priority on anything coming from the Super
Bowl cities,” said  Andrea Huguely , a spokeswoman for  American
Airlines . “We are doing everything we can to give them
priority. We’ve still got today and tomorrow, even Sunday
morning.”  Both American and  Southwest Airlines Co . said flights they
added last week for this weekend should ease the effects of
weather-related cancellations on travel to the Feb. 6 game at
Cowboys Stadium in Arlington,  Texas . The Dallas  Fort Worth  area
received 2 to 6 inches of snow today on top of sleet and ice
earlier in the week.  “The snow on the ground will hang around for the
weekend,” said Amber Elliott, a meteorologist with the  National
Weather Service  in Fort Worth. “I hate to say most of it. At
least half of it.”  The weather service forecast clear skies tomorrow and Feb.
6 with highs in the 40s, according to its website.  “Some people who aren’t here yet might not make it because
of weather and travel problems across the country,” said Bill Lively, president of the  North Texas Super Bowl XLV Host
Committee . “My sense after talking to a lot of hoteliers is
that many people are already here because hotels were booked for
four-day stays.”    Super Bowl  Tickets  Super Bowl ticket prices declined today as trips were
canceled and ticketholders turned to online resellers to get
back some of their money.  One reseller, San Francisco-based StubHub, offered 500 new
Super Bowl tickets today in addition to 700 already listed. The
lowest asking price was $1,950, for an end-zone seat. Two days
earlier, the cheapest ticket available through the website was
$2,575.  “I’d expect it’s due to people canceling their travel
plans,” said Glenn Lehrman, a spokesman for the Ebay-owned
company. “The prices haven’t dropped very much, but I’d expect
that to change Saturday and Sunday as people try to recoup at
least what they paid.”  The average price remained “in the $3,500 to $3,600 range,”
Lehrman said.  ‘Once the Weather Clears’  Most customers of On Point Sports, a Houston-based sports-
travel firm, had problem-free travel to the  Dallas  area, said
John Leggett, a partner.  Some of his employees, hand-delivering tickets in Dallas
today, were a different matter. Leggett said a crew abandoned an
ice-crippled rental car on a Dallas-area freeway and were picked
up by other workers nearby.  “All of our tickets we have in-hand so it’s just a matter
of handing them to people once the weather clears,” Leggett
said.  The Texas Department of Transportation dispatched 70
snowplows to the Dallas-Fort Worth area from elsewhere in the
state, said Kelli Petras, an agency spokeswoman. Only four plows
are usually stationed there, she said. About 600 Texas DOT
workers are clearing roads or laying down a magnesium chloride
de-icing compound or salt-sand mixture, she said.  “We’re hoping to have the major freeways and thoroughfares
moving by later today or at least by tomorrow,” she said. “We
need some help from the weather. When it gets this cold,
everything just refreezes.”  ‘One Big Arrival’  The Fairmont Dallas hotel, which reported no cancellations
this morning, assigned extra employees to the front desk in
anticipation of guests getting in behind schedule.  “We think we’ll have one big arrival, late,” said Erica
Martinez, a hotel spokeswoman.  Lively said the snow and cold may keep Super Bowl travelers
from visiting museums or hanging out outdoors at the ESPN set,
without affecting the game itself.  “We’ll still have the largest head count and the largest
ticket gate and the largest television audience,” he said. “The
build-up is the part that’s been compromised.”  Ponzio International Travel clients on a charter plane
bound for Love Field greeted a seven-hour delay with aplomb, and
in some cases, a drink, said Dick Ponzio, owner of the
Pittsburgh-based company.  “They all just went to the restaurants and bars” to wait
for Love to reopen, he said. “Everybody understood. When the
airport is closed, you can’t take off.”  Extra Flights  Those passengers arrived amid familiar freezing
temperatures and inches of snow.  “When we landed in Dallas this morning, it felt just like
home,” Ponzio said.  American operated all its flights out of  Chicago  and
Pittsburgh to Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport this
morning and expects to operate all scheduled flights from the
airport starting at 2 p.m. local time, said Huguely, the
spokeswoman.  Last week, the Fort Worth-based airline and its American
Eagle commuter carrier added 12 flights from today through Feb.
7 between Dallas-Fort Worth and Chicago, Green Bay, Milwaukee
and Madison,  Wisconsin , and Pittsburgh. The carrier canceled 662
flights into and out of Dallas today.  Southwest earlier added two extra flights between Milwaukee
and Dallas and two more between Pittsburgh and Dallas, scheduled
for today, said Chris Mainz, a spokesman for the Dallas-based
carrier.  “The operational goal is to get customers in for the Super
Bowl,” said Whitney Eichinger, a Southwest spokeswoman. “We
are watching the weather closely and are getting our operation
up as quickly as we can.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Korosec in Dallas via 
 tkorosec@sbcglobal.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  