-- Pettitte Says Arm Felt Fine, Didn't Have Hunger for Another Yankees Season
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2011-02-04T17:12:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/andy-pettitte-says-his-heart-wasn-t-committed-to-2011-return-for-yankees.html
  Andy Pettitte  said today that he
decided to end his 16-year Major League Baseball career because
he didn’t have the hunger for another season with the  New York
Yankees , even though his pitching arm felt fine.  The 38-year-old Pettitte announced his retirement at a
televised news conference at Yankee Stadium. He helped the
Yankees win five World Series championships in 13 seasons in the
Bronx, and record a record 19 victories in postseason play.  The left-hander was an All-Star in 2010 before a groin
injury limited his activity in the second half of the season. He
said his arm was ready for 2011 but his heart was not.  “It just didn’t feel right for me anymore,” Pettitte
said. “I didn’t have the hunger, the drive that I felt like I
needed. I knew that it was different.”  Pettitte said that he was confident that he wouldn’t play
this season. He wouldn’t rule out a future return.  “You can never say never,” he said. “I don’t think I
would be scared, if I literally went through this whole season
and I had hurt in my stomach that I wanted to pitch, to maybe
try it again.”  Pettitte pitched for three years in Houston before
returning to the Yankees in 2007. He said helping the team win
the 2009  World Series  in the first year in its new stadium was
the most special part of his career.  He said he would most miss the competition and the locker
room camaraderie.  Pettitte said he was considering retiring after 2008, but
the draw of the new stadium kept him in a Yankees uniform. He
put off retirement last season as well, saying he felt he owed
it to himself and the team to try to repeat as champions.  Clemens Case  Pettitte said his involvement in the Roger Clemens’ steroid
case didn’t affect his decision to retire now. Having
acknowledged using human growth hormone in two separate
instances, Pettitte is scheduled to be a witness at the July
trial of Clemens, his former teammate, on charges of lying to a
U.S. congressional panel when he denied using steroids.  Pettitte  leaves  with a 240-138 record and 3.88 earned run
average. A two-time 20-game winner, he often was at his best in
the playoffs, with a record six series-clinching victories.  He was 11-3 with a 3.83 ERA last season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 