-- Happy Ignoramus Directs Venomous Borgia Diva: Warwick Thompson
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2011-02-04T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/happy-ignoramus-directs-venomous-borgia-diva-warwick-thompson.html
Ignorance is bliss, goes the old
saying. Not at  English National Opera , it isn’t.  Film director Mike Figgis (“Leaving  Las Vegas ,”
“Internal Affairs”) has staged a work there, even though he
cheerfully admits in a program note that he is ignorant about
opera. Figgis has tackled Donizetti’s complicated 1833 tragedy
“Lucrezia Borgia.”  Why do ignorant people boast of their deficiency as if it
were a badge of honor?  The opera bravely tries to resist the director’s
incompetence. It has some terrific arias, and a dramatic trio in
Act 1 in which Lucrezia watches her husband poison the man she
adores (who, just to rack up the tension further, happens to be
her son). The son survives, only to be murdered by her later.
Meaty stuff.  It’s no use. In Figgis’s hands, the staging generates all
the excitement of watching a compost heap decay for two and a
half hours.  He attempts to bring a kind of cinematic minimalism to the
Renaissance-costumed production. The chorus members stand in
rows, and rarely move. Ensemble blocking is static. The sets,
which suggest the interior of a Renaissance palace and a town
square, use only a fraction of the huge stage.  Twiddling, Fondling  The result is psychologically moribund, visually dull and
dramatically stone dead. The singers, forced to stand in one
spot, fiddle with their props for something to do. They twiddle
cloaks, fondle cane knobs, and shuffle on their feet. It looks
terrible.  It’s another paradox that tyro directors always fall back
on the very same old-fashioned opera cliches they fondly imagine
they’re avoiding.  There are four superfluous short films, screened between
acts, which give Lucrezia’s back story. They arrive and depart
with a clunking change of dramatic gear.  The shame is all the greater because the singing is good.
Claire Rutter (Lucrezia) is a bel canto marvel. Rich of voice,
silken of tone, both vocally agile and powerful, she’s a
wonderful Lucrezia. Tenor Michael Fabiano (as Lucrezia’s son
Gennaro) is a polished stylist. If his voice displayed a rasp on
some notes on press night, it didn’t detract from the overall
success of his performance.  Elizabeth DeShong plays the pants role of Orsini, friend of
Gennaro, and sings it beautifully. In this production, her
costume suggests that she’s a man at first, and a woman later.
Figgis admits (program note again) that he had never heard of
pants roles in opera and found the convention “ridiculous.”
His confusing solution is the only ridiculous thing.  When I confess my complete ignorance of film to Figgis, I’m
confident that he’ll fund me to make a movie. What are the odds
it’ll be a turkey? Rating: *.  Blind Date  The 2008 off-Broadway hit play “Becky Shaw” by Gina
Gionfriddo has arrived in a new production at the  Almeida
Theatre  in London.  Suzanna (Anna Madeley) sets up her wealthy and cynical
foster brother Max (David Wilson Barnes) on a blind date with
kooky Becky Shaw (Daisy Haggard). Becky, one of life’s cheerful
losers, is a thirtysomething temp in an office. Although Max is
unimpressed, he has a quickie with her anyway. Unsurprisingly,
Becky is none too happy when he won’t return her calls.  Thus is set in train a comedy of American manners. On the
credit sheet there are some zingy one-liners. “Love? It’s just
a happy by-product of use,” says Max. The characters all
discuss each others’ motivations, with satisfyingly
contradictory results. The moral ambiguity is a dramatically
rich element of the show.  TV Sitcom  On the debit side, the endless one-liners give the
impression of a typical fast-talking television comedy drama or
sitcom. (Gionfriddo has several TV credits in her resume.)
Sometimes the pace needs to be relaxed, the situation explored
more deeply. What might work on TV doesn’t necessarily work on
stage. Parts of the plot feel forced and contrived too.  Barnes is great as Max, and he hints at the vulnerability
beneath the character’s cynicism. Haggard is enjoyably complex
as the needy Becky. Madeley doesn’t prevent Suzanna sounding too
whiney, and some of the other American accents are off. The
play’s no masterpiece, yet it’s no dud either. Rating: **.  Royal Flute  The  Royal Opera House ’s beautiful staging of Mozart’s “The
Magic Flute” returns with soprano Kate Royal as Pamina. Royal,
whose father-in-law is chaplain to  Queen Elizabeth II , is a hot
tip to be the soprano who sings at the wedding of  Prince William 
later in the year. If she does, she’ll bring a glorious sound
and classy phrasing to the event.  There are some other superb singers, such as Christopher
Maltman (Papageno) and Franz-Josef Selig (Sarastro) in the cast.
The revival director needs to make things tighter and more
detailed dramatically. Still, there’s plenty to enjoy. Rating:
**.  “Lucrezia Borgia” is in repertory at the Coliseum through
March 3. Information:  http://www.eno.org  or +44-871-911-0200.  “Becky Shaw” is at the Almeida until March 5.
Infromation:  http://www.almeida.co.uk  or +44-20-7359-4404.  “The Magic Flute” is in repertory at the Royal Opera
House through Feb. 26. Information:  http://www.roh.org.uk  or
+44-20-7304-4000.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  
To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in  London , at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 