-- Happy Anniversary, Mr. Keynes: Victoria Chick and Ann Pettifor
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   C h i c k   a n d   A n n   P e t t i f o r
-- 2011-02-04T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/happy-anniversary-mr-keynes-commentary-by-victoria-chick-ann-pettifor.html
Never has a book on economics been so
anticipated.  John  Maynard Keynes ’s “The General Theory of Employment,
Interest and Money” was published 75 years ago today. Back
then, there were queues outside the Economists’ Bookshop in
Houghton Street, London. Opening hours had to be extended to
deal with the rush of those eager for an alternative to policies
that had ruined the global economy.  The impact on the field of economics wasn’t unlike that on
the scientific community when Charles Darwin published “On the
Origin of Species” in 1859. Just as with Darwin’s book,
Keynes’s shook the foundations of economic orthodoxy and had
profound effects on his profession. The main thrust of Keynes’s
work was also met with outright denial from his peers, including
close colleagues, who reduced his theory to what one described
as “diagrams and bits of algebra.” Above all, they denied the
centrality of his theory of the rate of interest.  This “bastard Keynesianism,” as British economist  Joan
Robinson  called it, subverted and continues to block the
Keynesian revolution both in vision and in method. Monetarists
were concerned with the quantity of money. Keynes’s overwhelming
concern was with the rate of interest on money. He argued that
monetary policy should always support the private and public
economy, stimulate it, and prevent recession.  Safe and Risky  The centerpiece of his policy prescription was to sustain
low rates of interest across the spectrum of loans: short- and
long-term, real, safe and risky. Countering determined efforts
to undermine these policy goals, Keynes used his position at the
Treasury and the  Bank of England , and his influence with U.S.
President  Franklin D. Roosevelt , to make this vision a reality.  Interest rates  were forced down from 1932; the  bank rate  was set
at 2 percent until 1951.  To achieve this goal, which he argued was essential to
sustained investment, growth and full employment, Keynes
rejected the liberal-finance model based on deregulated
international-capital flows. Instead he constructed a managed-
finance model relying on domestic credit and restricted flows of
international capital. From the end of the World War II until
the 1970s, finance was managed, and low rates of interest
prevailed. But with the celebrated move to free markets, this
approach to finance was also rejected.  ‘Golden Age’  For the 30 years since 1980, policy has supported
liberalized, deregulated credit creation and capital flows.
Since the Golden Age of 1950 until 1973, the borrowing costs for
U.S. and U.K. businesses, adjusted for inflation, have doubled
to about 6 percent, according to data assembled by Geoff Tily,
author of the 2010 book “Keynes Betrayed.”  Under liberalization, high rates of interest have been
accompanied by the unsustainable growth of credit. This led to a
series of excessive expansions and debt inflations and then
severe contractions and debt deflations, beginning on the
periphery of the global economy before spreading to Japan and
South East Asia.  The contrast between the Golden Age and the Age of Liberal
Finance has at root this upward shift in the rate of interest.
In the U.K., unemployment averaged about 2.5 percent in the
Golden Age and close to 8 percent afterwards. Economic growth in
the U.K. and the U.S. averaged 0.5 percent higher per year
during the Golden Age than in the liberal-finance era, according
to their respective National Accounts authorities.  Economists Stray  The global economy was finally ruined in 2007-09 as the
financial system in the U.S. and  Europe  imploded under the
weight of accumulated private debt. Subprime borrowers were the
first to buckle under the weight of “dear money” -- costly,
unpayable debts. The widespread belief that it was low interest
rates that caused the credit crisis is indicative of how far
economists have strayed from Keynes’s theory and analysis.  Equally, the idea that interest rates are now substantially
lower, stems from a focus on policy rates while the high, real
rates paid by consumers and businesses are ignored. To reduce
real rates of interest for both industry and consumers requires
the full embrace of Keynes’s approach to the global system: a
coordinated effort to reverse financial liberalization.  Only with finance restrained can there be prospects for
public and private-sector expansion. Keynes’s “General Theory”
-- not the “Keynesian” theory of textbooks and conventional
wisdom -- offers the same way out of today’s crisis as it did in
the 1930s. But the economics profession must begin a reappraisal
of his central contribution to monetary theory.  And just as with “On the Origin of Species,” society must
reconsider conventional wisdom and reconcile itself to the
extent and scope of Keynes’s vision.  (Victoria Chick is emeritus professor of economics at
University College  London  and a co-founder of Prime -- Policy
Research in Macroeconomics.  Ann Pettifor  is a director of Prime
and co-author of “The Economic Consequences of Mr. Osborne.”
The opinions expressed are their own.)  To contact the writers of this column:
Victoria Chick at  v.chick@ucl.ac.uk 
Ann Pettifor at  georgia@advocacyinternational.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  