-- Arabs Battling Regimes See Erdogan's Muslim Democracy as Model
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y ,   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 2011-02-04T08:29:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/arabs-battling-regimes-see-erdogan-s-muslim-democracy-in-turkey-as-model.html
Arabs seeking a model for post-
autocratic governments are looking for inspiration in  Turkey ,
where Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s brand of Islamic
democracy has helped make him the region’s most popular leader.  Erdogan has been elected twice, presided over an economic
boom that’s tripled average incomes while Egypt’s remained
stagnant, and shifted Turkey’s foreign policy away from Western
tutelage while keeping its status as a U.S. military ally and
European Union candidate. His popularity has spread to the Arab
world, where he was named the most favored leader last year in a
survey by  Zogby  International and the University of  Maryland .  Turkey is cited as a model by opposition leaders competing
for power as the region’s rulers struggle to quell a wave of
protests. The head of Tunisia’s Islamist party, who returned
from a 22-year exile this week after President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali was toppled, said his country can emulate Turkey, and
opposition groups fighting to oust Hosni Mubarak in Egypt and
win political rights in monarchical Jordan cite similar aims.  “Turkey is the model for all the Muslim parties,” said
Kazim Mezran, a professor of international relations at Johns
Hopkins University’s campus in Bologna,  Italy . “Islamic parties
across the area are now saying, ‘Look at them, that’s what we
want to become.’”  The predecessors of Erdogan’s Justice and Development
Party, or Ak Party, were banned for opposing Turkey’s secular
rules, just as Egypt’s Muslim Brotherhood and Tunisia’s Ennahda
were forbidden by military leaders who saw them as threats.  ‘Not Our Kind’  The U.S. backed rulers such as Mubarak partly because they
promised a bulwark against radical Islam. Politicians including
Republican Senator John McCain have warned that the current
turmoil may hand power to religious parties less committed to
democracy than they claim to be.  There are “dangers of radical Islamic influence in every
one of these countries,” McCain said in a CNN interview
yesterday. He said the Brotherhood is “a great threat to
democracy” because “anybody who advocates Sharia law certainly
isn’t our kind of democrat.”  The Ak Party won power after rebranding itself as a
conservative party along the lines of Europe’s Christian
Democrats, and its goals include economic development and EU
membership. Turkey’s economy grew 8.9 percent in the first three
quarters of 2010, and is “one of the few countries in  Europe ”
that has surpassed pre-crisis levels of output “by a
comfortable margin,” the  International Monetary Fund  says.  Markets, Incomes Diverge  In Erdogan’s eight-year term growth has averaged about 5
percent. More than $80 billion of foreign direct investment
poured in, including acquisitions by  Citigroup Inc . and  Vodafone
Group Plc .  To be sure, for stock market investors, Mubarak’s Egypt was
a better bet than Erdogan’s Turkey. While the Turkish benchmark
more than quadrupled in dollar terms under Erdogan, Egypt’s
EGX30 is up more than 800 percent. For the people of the two
countries, it’s a different story.  Under Erdogan, average annual incomes rose above $10,000,
from about $3,500. Egypt’s per capita GDP was little changed at
$2,160 in 2009, rising $5 in two decades, according to IMF data.  Turkey is stable “because we raised the living standards of
the people. We met the demands of the people,” the country’s
ambassador to the U.S., Namik Tan, said in a Feb. 2 interview in  Washington . “Turkey should be an inspiration to all countries
of the same faith.”    Egypt  Slumps  So far this year, Egypt’s stock index has slumped 21
percent while Turkey’s is down 2.7 percent. The cost of insuring
Turkish debt has risen 24 basis points to 164, according to
Bloomberg prices for credit default swaps, while for Egypt it
has surged more than 150 basis points to 392.  In the decades before the Ak Party government, Turkey’s
army held ultimate power, four times pushing civilian
administrations from office. Since 2002, Erdogan has clipped the
military’s powers, ending its grip on the National Security
Council and jailing several top generals as part of a probe into
alleged coup plots. He has also given his government more
authority to appoint judges, eroding the influence of a
judiciary that attempted to ban the Ak Party on the grounds it
was seeking to introduce Islamic Sharia law.  Erdogan’s opponents cite those changes, and his efforts to
lift a ban on Islamic headscarves at university and make alcohol
sales harder, as proof that his agenda is more religious than
liberal. They often cite a comment Erdogan made when he was
mayor of Istanbul in the 1990s, calling democracy “a train that
takes you to your destination, and then you get off.”  ‘Not Sincere’  What the party is saying “isn’t sincere, and we don’t
believe they’re sincere on democracy either,”  Kemal Kilicdaroglu , the leader of Turkey’s main opposition Republican
People’s Party, said on Feb. 2, according to the Anatolia news
agency.  Seen from the Middle East, though, Turkey’s successes loom
larger.  Tunisia ’s Rachid Ghannouchi said in a Feb. 2 interview
in the capital, Tunis, that his country is socially and
culturally “close to Turkey, closer than it is to  Iran  or  Afghanistan .”  In Egypt, the Islamic opposition is also taking cues from
Turkey.  “The Muslim Brotherhood, whenever asked, insists they
don’t want an Iranian-style theocracy and that the model they
are looking to is the Ak Party,” said Hillel Fradkin, director
of the Center on Islam, Democracy and the Future of the Muslim
World at the  Hudson Institute .  Badr Mohamed Badr, a senior Muslim Brotherhood leader, said
by phone on Feb. 3 that the group seeks “a civil, democratic
political regime that respects human rights and freedoms,
guarantees better and safer lives for citizens and improves the
country’s economy.”  “We are not after a religious state,” he said.  Lamp and Bulb  The leading Islamic opposition party in  Morocco  shares the
Justice and Development Party name and has a similar symbol: the
Moroccan party’s is an oil lamp while the Turkish party’s is a
light bulb.  “We believe the Turkish example and model is promising and
has been rewarding,” said Hamzah Mansour, secretary general of
the Islamic Action Front, the largest opposition group in  Jordan , where King Abdullah sacked his government this week as
protesters demand measures to fight poverty.  The channels of Turkish influence extend beyond
governments, with the country’s culture and  consumer goods  also
exerting a pull for Arabs, said Rashid Khalidi, head of the
Middle East Institute at Columbia University in  New York .  Turkish Miniseries  “They are all fed on Turkish products, watch Turkish TV
miniseries, go to Turkey on vacation, receive Turkish
investment,” he said in a phone interview.  Murat Mercan, head of the Turkish parliament’s foreign
affairs committee, said Erdogan’s popularity is an offshoot of
the party’s adherence to universal values, not a goal.  “The AK Party has no ambition to interfere in the internal
affairs of other countries,” Mercan said in a telephone
interview from Ankara.  “What we’ve done is what’s good for our people,” he said.
“If other countries are inspired by that, that’s their
decision.”  Turkey has given advice on democratic politics to some Arab
parties and will continue to do so, Foreign Ministry spokesman
Selcuk Unal said in an interview. Officials from Iraqi Shiite
cleric Moqtada al-Sadr’s political group received training in
parliamentary procedure in Ankara last year, he said.  ‘Era Over’  Earlier this week, Erdogan said Mubarak should listen to
his people because “the era of governments persisting on
pressure and repression is over.”  While Erdogan has quarrelled with the U.S. over Iran’s
nuclear program and angered some Western supporters with his
denunciations of  Israel ’s attacks on Palestinians, Turkey
remains a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and
has helped the U.S.-led effort to stabilize Afghanistan.  Islamic groups in the region are learning, like the Ak
Party, to “manage the political process in a way that people
don’t feel threatened,” said Alastair Crooke, a former EU
mediator with Islamist movements and now director of the Beirut-
based  Conflicts Forum . “They will not seek to be prominent or
dominate the next stage because they will not want to have the
revolution branded as Islamist or terrorist.”  To contact the reporters on this story:  Benjamin Harvey  in Ankara at 
 Bharvey11@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon at   mderhally@bloomberg.net . 