-- Harvard Tests Reality of First Basketball Title Against Princeton Tonight
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2011-02-04T16:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/harvard-tests-reality-of-first-basketball-title-against-princeton-tonight.html
Harvard University Coach Tommy Amaker
says his plan to bring the nation’s oldest college its first
basketball title in more than a century of seasons is on track.
He gets a major test tonight in Princeton,  New Jersey .  “We said when we started: ‘We want to begin as an upstart,
go to a contender, become a winner, become a champion and then
create a dynasty,’” Amaker, 45, said in a telephone interview.
“We think we are on schedule to doing some of those things.”  The  Crimson  are 15-3 and 4-0 in the Ivy League, the second-
best start in school history. They top the standings ahead of
preseason favorite  Princeton University  (14-4, 2-0) and the
University of Pennsylvania (8-8, 2-0), which plays  Dartmouth
College  (5-13, 1-3) tonight in Philadelphia. Harvard is the only
team in the eight-school conference never to have won a
basketball title.  Amaker  was hired four years ago to challenge the Tigers and
Quakers as perennial league leaders, and has big ideas for a
basketball program that has never measured up to the Cambridge,  Massachusetts , school’s ranking as the top university on U.S.
News & World Report’s  annual list .  Harvard fans may learn just how far along the team’s
transformation is in tonight’s game, televised on Walt Disney
Co.’s ESPNU.  Keith Wright , a junior forward from Suffolk, Virginia, is
averaging a team-high 14.7 points a game along with 8.4 rebounds
in an offense that sometimes has three or four guards on the
court.  The Crimson start four sophomores and a junior, and lead
the league in scoring defense, allowing  an average of 62.7
points  per game. They rank  No. 2 in the nation  in free-throw
percentage (79.7), trailing  Wisconsin  (81.8 percent) in games
played through Jan. 30, the most recent list available.  No Titles  Harvard, established in 1636, started a men’s basketball
team in 1900-01, and didn’t field squads from 1909 to 1920. Its
best start was in 1945-46, when it was 19-3 and went to the
National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament.  Since then, their best Ivy finish was second place with an
11-3 league record in 1970-71, and they finished third last
season.  In the  54 years  the Ivy League has been naming a men’s
basketball champion, Princeton and Philadelphia-based Penn have
each won at least a share of the title 25 times, followed by  Cornell University  in Ithaca, New York, and  Yale University  in  New Haven ,  Connecticut , with four each; Dartmouth in Hanover,  New Hampshire , with two; and  Brown University  in Providence,  Rhode Island , and  Columbia University  in  New York  City with one
apiece.  Princeton Coach  Sydney Johnson , 36, played for the Tigers
from 1993-94 through 1996-97, and was named the Ivy League
Player of the Year after guiding the team to its second
consecutive league title as a senior.  Victories Wanted  Johnson said Harvard has invested in its men’s basketball
program, and that it’s clear to him the school is no longer
satisfied with good efforts and moral victories.  “Their recruiting has been very aggressive over the last
three years and that’s reflected in the depth of their roster,”
Johnson said in a telephone interview. “When I attended
Princeton as a player, Penn and Princeton were the dominant
teams and kids who viewed themselves as basketball players would
only consider those two schools.”  Cornell reached the third round of the NCAA tournament last
season after winning its third straight Ivy League title. The
league doesn’t give athletic scholarships, determines its
champion without a postseason tournament and never has had more
than one representative in the national championship field.  Pace of Play  Princeton, which last won the league title in 2003-04, has
traditionally run a slower, half-court offense, but has
quickened the pace at times this year, Amaker said. The Tigers
also have more experience in their starting line-up with a
senior, two juniors and two sophomores.  Sophomore guard  Ian Hummer  from Vienna,  Virginia , is
Princeton’s leading scorer with 13.7 points and 6.4 rebounds,
while Douglas Davis, a junior guard from Philadelphia, is the
best long-range threat, converting 42.3 percent of his 3-point
shots.  “The pace of the game will be the biggest factor,”
Harvard forward Kyle Casey, last season’s Ivy League Rookie of
the Year, said in a telephone interview. “We like to get up and
down, and Princeton has been known to slow it down. It will be a
game of tempos.”  Former Duke Guard  Casey,  20, grew up near Harvard and attended Crimson games
during high school. He chose Harvard over  Stanford University ,
Davidson College and George Washington University because of the
changes he saw taking place under Amaker, who played point guard
for  Duke University , the reigning NCAA national champion, from
1983 to 1987 before becoming an assistant coach with the  Blue
Devils  for nine years.  “Coach Amaker said he wanted to win the  Ivy League 
championship, change the atmosphere around the program and start
a new breed of basketball here,” Casey said in a phone
interview. “It happened. As we won, more students started
showing up at games, the recruits were a higher caliber, the
atmosphere changed.  “I really believed that he could do it. And I wanted to be
part of something special like that. It just felt right. And I
think we’re getting close.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  