-- Asian Currencies Have Weekly Gain on Economic Growth, Rate-Rise Prospects
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2011-02-04T08:46:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/asian-currencies-headed-for-weekly-advance-on-growth-rate-rise-prospects.html
Asian currencies had their biggest
weekly gain of the year, led by the Philippine peso and  Thailand ’s baht, as upbeat economic data fanned speculation  interest rates  will be raised to counter inflation.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index climbed after the  Philippines  and Taiwan announced faster economic growth than
economists forecast this week, with the Southeast Asian nation
also reporting a higher-than-expected inflation rate. Exports
and consumer prices gained more than forecast in South Korea and
Indonesia, while overseas sales in  Malaysia  also exceeded
projections, separate data showed. Bank Indonesia unexpectedly
raised interest rates today for the first time in two years.  “Asian economic growth is very solid and they are in an
environment allowing central banks to boost rates to fight
inflation,” said  Tsutomu Soma , a bond and currency dealer at
Okasan Securities Co. in Tokyo. “The trend of Asian currency
appreciation is still intact.”  The Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the region’s 10 most-
traded currencies excluding the yen, climbed 0.6 percent this
week to 116.49 as of 4:21 p.m. in  Hong Kong . The peso advanced
0.8 percent to 43.765 per dollar, the baht strengthened 0.9
percent to 30.78 and Indonesia’s rupiah rose 0.4 percent to
8,995. Financial markets in  China , Taiwan and South Korea were
shut most of this week for the Chinese New Year holidays.  Philippine Prices  The peso had a second weekly gain as a government report
today showed consumer prices climbed 3.5 percent in January from
a year earlier, the most in four months and more than the median
3.3 percent gain forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists.
The central bank will consider the data when it reviews interest
rates on Feb. 10, Governor Amando Tetangco said today. Gross
domestic product rose 7.3 percent in 2010, the fastest growth
since 1976, the government reported Jan. 31.  “The market is gauging how inflation threats will feed
into the benchmark overnight rates,” said Bunny Bernardo-Recto,
vice president for treasury at Chinatrust (Phils.) Commercial
Bank Inc.  Indonesia’s rupiah reached its strongest level in four
weeks after Bank  Indonesia  boosted its reference rate by a
quarter of a percentage point to 6.75 percent. The move was
predicted by six of 22 economists surveyed by Bloomberg before
the announcement, with the rest having forecast no change.
Inflation in Southeast Asia’s biggest economy accelerated to a
21-month high of 7.02 percent in January, official figures show.  Rupee Strengthens    India ’s rupee strengthened 0.4 percent this week to 45.60
per dollar. The statistics office will predict economic growth
of 8.6 percent on Monday, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg ahead of a Feb. 7 announcement.
A Feb. 1 report showed exports climbed 36.4 percent in December
from a year earlier, the biggest increase since March.  Consumer-price gains in  South Korea  accelerated to 4.1
percent in January from a year earlier, the fastest pace since
October, a report showed this week. President  Lee Myung Bak  a
month ago called for “a war on inflation” and the central bank
last month boosted borrowing costs for the third time since June.
The Korean won fell 0.3 percent to close at 1,116.95 per dollar
on Feb. 1, the last trading day this week.  Financial markets in Singapore and Malaysia were shut for
the Lunar New Year holidays on Feb. 3 and Feb. 4. The Singapore
dollar strengthened 0.6 percent to S$1.2734 per dollar before
the break, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Malaysia’s
ringgit added 0.5 percent to 3.04 over the same period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  