-- Australia Central Bank Lifts 2011 GDP Outlook, Sees Strong Flood Recovery
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2011-02-04T02:07:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/australia-central-bank-raises-gdp-forecast-sees-strong-flood-recovery.html
  Australia ’s economy will expand more
than previously forecast this year as flood rebuilding
accelerates in the second half, tightening the labor market and
putting pressure on wages, the central bank said.  “The recent floods will have a material effect on the
near-term profile of gross domestic product, with growth in the
December and March quarters notably lower,” the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia said in a quarterly  report  in Sydney today. That will
be  followed by “a strong recovery in the June quarter as coal
production picks up and the rebuilding effort gets under way.”  The RBA raised its forecast for 2011 growth to 4.25 percent,
from a November prediction of 3.75 percent. Consumer prices will
rise 3 percent, from a previous estimate of 2.75 percent, it
said. The nation’s currency surged to a one-month high as
investors raised bets the central bank, which has left its
benchmark interest rate unchanged at 4.75 percent for the past
two meetings, will resume increasing borrowing costs.  “It’s unequivocally hawkish,” said  Adam Carr , a senior
economist at ICAP Australia Ltd. in Sydney, who expects the RBA
to boost borrowing costs by May at the latest. “These guys
don’t want to leave rates low for long.”  Today’s forecasts reflect an economy where surging
shipments of  iron ore  and coal to  China  are increasing demand
for workers, while a stronger currency lowers import prices and  consumer spending  weakens after seven interest-rate increases
from October 2009 to November 2010.  Dollar Rises  The Australian dollar advanced to $1.0187 at 1:04 p.m. in
Sydney, the highest since Jan. 3, from $1.0144 before the
release. Swaps traders bet the central bank will raise its
benchmark rate by 35 basis points over the next 12 months, up
from 22 basis points two days ago, according to a Credit Suisse
AG index.  During the next two years, consumer-price inflation is
forecast to remain within the central bank’s target range of 2
percent to 3 percent on average, the RBA said today. The local
dollar’s gains are helping contain prices, it said.  “Pressures on capacity are likely to emerge in parts of
the economy as the structural adjustment to the large change in
relative prices takes place,” the central bank said. “The
substantial increase in the price of Australia’s exports has
meant that the real  exchange rate  is higher than it would
otherwise have been, and this is contributing to differences in
growth prospects across industries.”  Rate Differential  The RBA’s 175 basis points of rate increases have driven
Australia’s currency to parity with the  U.S. dollar . In contrast,
the U.S. Federal Reserve has kept its main interest rate near
zero since December 2008. The higher Australian dollar has hurt
non-resource industries.  The nation’s manufacturing recorded a fifth monthly decline
in January as measures of inventories, wages and supplier
deliveries declined. The building industry shrank in December
for a seventh straight month.  Australian employers added 2,300 jobs in December, capping
a record year of job growth with the smallest increase since
February. The  unemployment rate  dropped to 5 percent in December,
the lowest level since January 2009.  While businesses are reporting the labor market has
tightened, “most are not experiencing significant difficulties
in hiring employees,” the RBA said today. Still, “looking
ahead, a gradual increase in wage growth is expected as the
labor market tightens further,” it said.  Skill Shortage  As floodwaters recede, builders may need to compete with
mining and energy companies for workers. “The labor market
appears tightest for some mining-related and skilled
occupations,” the RBA said.  Two coal-seam gas projects, expected to cost more than A$30
billion, are proceeding near the Queensland port of Gladstone.  Santos Ltd ., Australia’s third-largest oil producer, and BG
Group Plc, the U.K.’s third-biggest gas producer, will start
hiring the first of more than 10,000 construction workers needed
for the two projects later this year.  Torrential rains in Queensland affected about 30,000
properties, shut coal mines, cut rail lines and damaged crops.
Earlier this week, a cyclone slammed into the nation’s east
coast.  The central bank said the inundation of Queensland is
likely to cut 0.5 percentage point from GDP in 2010-2011 and add
0.25 point to inflation this quarter.  Flood Damage  The flooding, which also hit the southern state of Victoria,
has also weakened business and  consumer confidence , recent
reports showed.  Australian business sentiment fell to the lowest level in
19 months in December, reflecting the damage to Queensland’s
mining, transport, agriculture and tourism industries. Consumer
confidence last month fell to the lowest since June last year on
concern the floods will weaken the economy    Woolworths Ltd ., Australia’s biggest retailer, cut its
full-year profit forecast, citing lower consumer confidence and
“uncertainty” over inflation and  interest rates .  “The outlook for consumption and the timing of the pick-up
in resource sector investment” are among important influences
on the economic outlook, the RBA said today. “The household
saving ratio is forecast to remain broadly unchanged over the
forecast period, after having increased significantly since the
mid-2000s.”  To contact the reporter for this story:  Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  