-- Bank Indonesia Begins Battle to Contain Accelerating Inflation
-- B y   W i d y a   U t a m i   a n d   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2011-02-04T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/bank-indonesia-begins-battle-to-contain-accelerating-inflation.html
  Indonesia ’s central bank may add to
its first interest-rate increase in more than two years after
falling in danger of being judged too slow to contain
accelerating inflation.  The next move may come as soon as next month, according to
PT Bank Danamon Indonesia. HSBC Holdings Plc expects Bank
Indonesia’s benchmark reference rate to be raised by half a
percentage point by April after Governor Darmin Nasution
unexpectedly boosted it to 6.75 percent from 6.5 percent
yesterday. The move was the first increase since October 2008.  The rupiah,  Asia ’s fourth-worst performing currency in the
past year among the 10 major Asian currencies tracked by
Bloomberg News, climbed to a four-week high and bonds advanced
after Indonesia joined Asian nations from  India  to  South Korea 
in increasing rates. Indonesia may have more room to boost rates
even at the risk of attracting more currency inflows as the
rupiah has risen only 3.5 percent in the past 12 months, less
than a third of the gain in Malaysian and Singapore currencies.  “There has been an acute sense of immediacy with regard to
the inflation risk,” Wellian Wiranto, a Singapore-based
economist at HSBC, said in an e-mailed note yesterday. “We see
two more rate hikes in the coming months.” He forecasts the
policy rate at 7.25 percent by April.  The rupiah rose 0.4 percent to 8,993 per dollar at close of
trading in Jakarta yesterday, from 9,025 when local financial
markets were last open on Feb. 2. The currency had strengthened
to as much as 8,990, the highest since Jan. 6. Ten-year
government bond yields fell one basis point to 8.91 percent.  Stocks Gain  The  Jakarta Composite Index  rose 0.4 percent. It has slid
7.3 percent from its Dec. 9 record high as investors were
concerned the central bank has fallen behind regional peers in
boosting rates to cool inflation.  The  Reserve Bank  of India on Jan. 25 raised rates for the
seventh time in a year.  Thailand ’s central bank increased the
one-day bond repurchase rate on Jan. 12 for the fourth time
since the start of July while the Bank of  Korea  raised its
benchmark on Jan. 13 for the third time since the global
financial crisis.  Consumer prices in Indonesia,  Southeast Asia ’s largest
economy, rose 7.02 percent in January from a year earlier, the
most since April 2009.  Core inflation  was 4.18 percent in
January, easing from 4.28 percent the previous month.  Inflation Expectations    Bank Indonesia ’s decision is aimed at curbing inflation
expectations, which are being stoked by volatile food prices and
an increase in global commodity costs including oil, Governor
Darmin Nasution said in a statement yesterday.  “Ideally we should expect to see the next 25 basis point
rate hike being done in March,”  Helmi Arman  and Anton Gunawan,
economists at PT Bank Danamon, said in a note yesterday. “As
the harvest season approaches, the month-on-month headline will
be low and this could temporarily divert the market’s attention
away from inflation.”  That may tempt Bank Indonesia to “save the remaining 25
basis point hike for another rainy day,” which could be in May
or June, the economists said.  Bank Indonesia maintained its inflation forecast for 2011
in the range of 4 percent to 6 percent and said the economy
will probably expand by 6 percent to 6.5 percent this year,
according to the statement.  With Indonesia’s rate increase, the  Philippines  is the only
major Southeast Asian economies using  interest rates  as a policy
tool that hasn’t raised its borrowing cost.  Higher Reserves  Among the steps the central bank had taken so far to
control inflation was to order lenders to set aside 5 percent of
their total foreign-exchange holdings as reserves from March
this year, from 1 percent currently. In January, Bank Indonesia
reintroduced a 30 percent cap on lenders’ short-term overseas
borrowing to minimize the risk of sudden capital outflows.  Inflation erodes the spending power of the poor. The  World
Bank  estimates 29 percent of Indonesians earn less than $2 a
day.  The central bank refrained from raising rates since 2008 as
President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono targeted annual average
economic growth of 6.6 percent through the remainder of his term
ending in 2014. Companies from PT Bank Pan Indonesia to AirAsia
Bhd. are counting on rising demand in the world’s fourth-most
populous nation to boost their businesses.  Indonesia’s economy grew 6.3 percent last quarter from a
year earlier, accelerating from a 5.8 percent rate in the three
months through September, according to the median estimate of 12
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The government will
release fourth-quarter economic data on Feb. 7.  Indonesian stocks’ decline is a buying opportunity as the
rural-based economy will benefit from rising commodity prices,
Wilianto Ie, an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc., said last
month. Concerns about inflation getting out of hand due to
“policy slippage” are unfounded and the slump in Indonesia
stocks is a “window of opportunity,” said Mun Hon Tham, an
analyst at Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  