-- Barker Says Bank of England Has Lost Some Credibility From Inflation Bout
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2011-02-04T10:08:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/bank-of-england-may-have-lost-some-credibility-on-inflation-barker-says.html
The  Bank of England  may have suffered
a setback to its credibility as it struggles to contain an
inflation rate that has accelerated to almost twice its 2
percent target, former policy maker  Kate Barker  said.  “There’s a perception in business as well as in financial
markets that the committee has perhaps been behaving in a
different way coming out of the crisis and has tolerated
inflation more than you might have expected,” Barker said late
yesterday at an event hosted by Anglia Ruskin University in
Chelmsford,  England . Companies “probably have less belief that
it will come back to 2 percent than in the good old days, and
that’s a sort of modest loss of credibility.”  Soaring food and energy costs and an increase in  sales tax 
lifted U.K. inflation to an eight-month high of 3.7 percent in
December, the 13th month it’s been above the target. Surveys
this week showed price pressures intensified in January among
service, manufacturing, and construction companies.  The outlook has split the nine-member Monetary Policy
Committee, which has maintained emergency stimulus as the
government’s fiscal squeeze takes hold. While Governor  Mervyn King  said last month that price gains will slow to the target,  Andrew Sentance  was joined by  Martin Weale  at the January policy
meeting in a vote to raise the benchmark interest rate from a
record low 0.5 percent to tame inflation.  Barker, who stepped down from the MPC at the end of May
after serving three consecutive three-year terms, said there is
a risk the bank may lose credibility in a “more profound way”
and that the dilemma it faces “has got worse” since she left.  ‘Confidence Trick’  “If you believe inflation is going to come back to 2
percent, you are going to behave as if that’s going to happen
when you’re setting wages and setting prices,” she said. “Once
you start to think this monetary policy isn’t all that it’s
cracked up to be, and things need to be changed in some way,
then things inevitably become more difficult.”  “It’s like a confidence trick,” she said.  The pound rose as much as 0.2 percent against the dollar
today. It was little changed at $1.6130 as of 10:02 a.m. in  London . The U.K. currency has gained 1.7 percent this week.  King forecast last month that price gains could accelerate
to more than 4 percent in the coming months before returning to
the goal. Still, Barker said she doesn’t see the bank losing
credibility “in a big sense,” with prices moving “completely
out of control.”  She also said that while the recovery seems to be under
way, the economy still faces risks from turmoil in sovereign-
debt markets and the U.K. government’s spending cuts. Still,
people should take optimism from companies’ capacity to invest
and a “strong” global economy.  “We haven’t laid all the risks to bed in the financial
system,” she said. “If you were thinking of the crisis as a
game of football, we’re in about the 60th minute. Things are
still going reasonably well, but there’s always a chance of some
sneaky goals from the opposition.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  