-- Bank of Ireland Said Near Capital Deal Limiting Stake
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2011-02-04T17:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/bank-of-ireland-said-near-capital-deal-limiting-stake.html
Bank of Ireland Plc, ordered by
regulators to raise  2.2 billion euros  ($3 billion) by the end of
the month, is close to an agreement for the government to
provide capital without increasing its stake in the lender,
according to two people with knowledge of the situation.  Ireland, which owns 36 percent of the Bank of Ireland,
plans to acquire about 1.4 billion euros of non-voting shares in
the Dublin-based lender, according to the people, who declined
to comment because the talks aren’t complete. The securities
would convert into stock if the bank failed to raise the same
amount in a later rights offering to repay the government, they
said. An announcement may be made next week, and shareholder
approval is required, one person said.  The bank has ruled out raising cash by selling shares to
investors before the end of February deadline because the
country’s central bank won’t complete a review of lenders’
capital and liquidity until March. Bank of Ireland was up 5.5
percent to 38.4 euro cents, its highest level in seven weeks, at
the 5:10 p.m. close in Dublin.  Ireland has injected about 46 billion euros of capital into
the country’s banks over two years after the implosion of a
decade-long real-estate boom. It has seized four lenders: Anglo
Irish Banks Plc,  Allied Irish Banks Plc , Irish Nationwide
Building Society and EBS Building Society.  Approval Required  The government agreed in November to increase Irish
lenders’ targets for Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of
financial strength, to at least 12 percent as part of the
country’s 85 billion-euro international bailout. The European
Union and  International Monetary Fund , which led the rescue, and
Irish authorities must approve the Bank of Ireland plan.  Bank of Ireland, the nation’s largest lender, shaved 700
million euros off its capital needs in December by exchanging
subordinated bonds for new securities at a discount to face
value. The lender, led by Chief Executive Officer Richie Boucher, started a similar offer for Canadian dollar junior
bonds on Feb. 2, which could generate “a little over 60 million
euros of equity,”  Emer Lang , an analyst with Dublin-based
securities firm Davy, said in a note to clients yesterday.  Bank of Ireland completed a 2.9 billion-euro fundraising in
June, becoming the first Irish lender to meet an 8 percent
capital target set by the central bank in March.  Separately, the lender will postpone a plan to offer to
convert some of its subordinated bonds into shares until after
the central bank’s capital and liquidity reviews, said one of
the people. Bank of Ireland could reap about 200 million euros
from such an accord, a person said on Jan. 10.  Officials from Bank of Ireland, the  Finance Ministry , the
National Treasury Management Agency and the central bank
declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  