-- Beach Energy Halts Egypt Oil Drilling, Withdraws Two Employees on Unrest
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2011-02-04T02:49:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/beach-puts-oil-drilling-in-egypt-on-hold-amid-unrest-update1-.html
  Beach Energy Ltd ., an Australian oil
and gas producer, said it put drilling at one of its ventures in
Egypt on hold after communications were cut because of political
unrest, disrupting supplies to the rig.  Beach suspended drilling of the first well at Abu Sennan,
an oil project about 300 kilometers (185 miles) west of Cairo,
Chris Jamieson, Beach’s investor relations manager in Adelaide,
said by phone today. Two of Beach’s Australia-based employees, a
geologist and Egypt specialist, and an accountant, returned to  Australia  last week, Jamieson said.  “We’re still committed to Egypt and believe in it being a
future driver of oil production and an important part of our
business,” Jamieson said. “These are challenges you can face
in countries like this. There’s an element of risk.”  Protesters calling for Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  to
step down have clashed in Cairo with supporters of the 30-year
regime. Beach, which has oil and gas interests in Australia,  New
Zealand , Papua New Guinea,  Spain  and Albania, has expanded in
Egypt, home to Africa’s sixth-biggest oil reserves.  In August, Beach said it agreed to acquire a 22 percent
interest in Abu Sennan and a 15 percent stake in the Mesaha
project in southern Egypt for as much as $33 million. Kuwait
Energy Egypt Ltd. owns 50 percent of Abu Sennan, with Dover
Investments Ltd. holding the rest, according to Beach.  BP Venture  Beach also has a 20 percent stake in the North Shadwan oil
venture in Egypt operated by  BP Plc , according to its website.
BP informed Beach that the start of production is now expected
in the second quarter of 2011, partly because of delays in
equipment delivery and installation, Beach said last month.  “At the moment, there’s no expectation” of production
being pushed back further, Jamieson said.  Beach rose 0.6 percent to 85.5 Australian cents a share at
1:12 p.m. in Sydney trading, compared with a gain of 0.9 percent
for the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index. That values the Australian
oil producer at about A$940 million ($957 million).  To contact the reporter on this story:  James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 