-- Blockbuster `Insolvent,' Bankruptcy Should Be Liquidation, Creditor Says
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2011-02-04T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/blockbuster-insolvent-bankruptcy-should-be-liquidation-creditor-says.html
  Blockbuster Inc ., accused by Summit
Distribution LLC of being unable to pay $1.6 million owed for
DVDs of “The Twilight Saga: Eclipse,” should liquidate, the
creditor of the bankrupt movie-rental chain said.  Summit, an independent production and distribution studio,
said yesterday it wants Blockbuster to convert from a Chapter 11
bankruptcy reorganization to a Chapter 7 liquidation. The
world’s largest movie-rental company is “administratively
insolvent,” or unable to pay the costs of the case, Summit said
in a filing in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  Manhattan .  “The debtors informed Summit that the debtors would not
pay Summit with respect to products that were shipped post-
petition because the debtors lacked the funds to do so,”
lawyers for Summit wrote. Blockbuster didn’t dispute its
obligation to Summit, they said.  Summit is owed $9.5 million, a “significant amount for a
film distributor,” according to the filing. Summit also wants
the bankruptcy judge to modify the so-called automatic stay so
it can recover goods it already shipped.  Blockbuster, based in  Dallas , filed under Chapter 11 with
an outline of a reorganization plan supported by holders of 80
percent of the $630 million in 11.75 percent senior-secured
notes. The company listed assets of $1.02 billion and debt of
$1.46 billion when it sought court protection on Sept. 23.    Martin Sosland , a lawyer for Blockbuster, and Richard
Kanowitz, a lawyer for the company’s creditors, didn’t
immediately return phone calls seeking comment yesterday.  DIP Loan  Sosland said Jan. 20 that Blockbuster isn’t looking for
more money, contrary to a Jan. 18 report in the Wall Street
Journal that it was seeking another $200 million to $250
million.  “We don’t even have any money drawn under the DIP,”
Sosland said at the time, referring to the $125 million debtor-
in-possession loan that is funding Blockbuster’s operations in
bankruptcy.  Blockbuster last reported a profit in the first quarter of
2009. It posted a net loss of $53.5 million on sales of $736.6
million in the third quarter of 2010. Cash and cash equivalents
stood at $52 million as of Oct. 3, the company said in a
regulatory filing.  “It’s hard to say this debtor is anything but insolvent,”
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland  said Jan. 20 while
rejecting a bid by shareholders for a probe of the company’s
value.  The company’s deadline for filing a plan and disclosure
statement describing it has been extended several times and is
now today. The deadline to get court approval for the disclosure
statement was moved to Feb. 11 from Jan. 15, Blockbuster said
last month.  Store Closings  Lifland on Jan. 20 approved Blockbuster’s requests to close
stores, reject unexpired leases and sell inventory, after
hearing that objections by several landlords were resolved. The
company, which had about 3,000 stores, seeks to close 110
underperforming stores before the end of this quarter, according
to court papers.  Since the bankruptcy filing on Sept. 23, Blockbuster has
rejected leases on 220 locations, most of which were closed
beforehand, and by the end of 2010 had shuttered another 72
stores. Blockbuster has until April 21 to decide which unexpired
leases at its stores to reject.    Carl Icahn  asked Lifland last week to dismiss a lawsuit
filed by creditor Lyme Regis Partners claiming the billionaire
investor converted his equity stake in Blockbuster to debt to
take control of the company after it reorganizes.  The case is In re Blockbuster, 10-14997,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 