-- BOE Faces Close Call as Sentance Maintains Rate Battle to Tame Inflation
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2011-02-04T15:48:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/boe-faces-close-call-as-sentance-keeps-up-rate-battle-to-tame-inflation.html
Bank of England official  Andrew Sentance ’s drive for higher interest rates to tame inflation may
gain traction at next week’s policy meeting after reports
indicated the U.K. recovery has reignited.  Services and construction rebounded last month while
manufacturing grew at a record pace after the economy
unexpectedly shrank in the fourth quarter, surveys this week
showed. The reports also showed price pressures in the
industries intensified as policy makers battle an inflation rate
that’s exceeded their 2 percent target for 13 months.  “The recovery is maybe still fragile but it’s beginning to
look a bit more normal and there’s more of a case for starting
to nudge rates upwards,” said  Ross Walker , an economist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in London. “They won’t hike in
February, they’ll hold off. But it’s a close call.”  A split on the central bank’s nine-member Monetary Policy
Committee sharpened last month when  Martin Weale  joined a push
Sentance started in June to raise the benchmark interest rate.
The division may persist at the Feb. 10 decision after Sentance
repeated his call this week and Deputy Governor Charles Bean
said keeping rates on hold for now is a “sensible policy.”  Inflation Concern  Minutes of the bank’s Jan. 13 meeting showed “most” of
the committee took the view that medium-term inflation risks had
“probably shifted upwards” after consumer-price growth
accelerated to 3.7 percent in December. Still, with the majority
of officials forecasting that the surge was temporary, the bank
left its key rate on hold at a record low 0.5 percent.  Reports since then suggest the U.K.’s unexpected 0.5
percent contraction in the fourth quarter may have been a
temporary setback.  A gauge based on a survey of service companies from
caterers to transport firms surged to 54.5 in January from 49.7,
Markit Economics Ltd. said yesterday. A measure of costs rose to
the highest in more than two years. Separate surveys showed
manufacturing grew at a record pace and construction resumed
expansion. The indexes had slumped in December, when
temperatures fell to the coldest in a century for that month.  The pound fell 0.5 percent against the dollar today, paring
its gain for the week to 1.2 percent. It was trading at $1.6050
as of 3:48 p.m. in  London .  ‘Stronger’ Data  The inflation outlook has prompted investors to add to bets
on an interest-rate increase. The implied yield on December 2011
short sterling futures has risen 41 basis points this year to
1.66 percent. JPMorgan Chase & Co. brought forward its forecast
for the bank’s first interest-rate increase to May from August.  “The stronger survey data that we had this week and
comments from some MPC members prompted the change,” Allan Monks, an economist at JPMorgan in London, said in an interview.
“The timing is particularly hard to gauge at the moment. We’re
not ruling out February, it could be close.”  The central bank debate has largely centered on whether the
current bout of inflation is temporary, driven by oil prices and
an increase in tax, or is likely to persist. Consumer-price
growth probably accelerated again last month after the
government raised the sales-tax rate. That would force Bank of
England Governor  Mervyn King  to write to the Treasury to explain
why inflation remains above the government’s 3 percent limit.  Credibility  Former policy maker  Kate Barker  said the central bank may
have suffered a setback to its credibility as it struggles to
contain inflation.  “There’s a perception in business as well as in financial
markets that the committee has perhaps been behaving in a
different way coming out of the crisis and has tolerated
inflation more than you might have expected,” she said late
yesterday. Companies “probably have less belief that it will
come back to 2 percent than in the good old days, and that’s a
sort of modest loss of credibility.”  Sentance told City A.M. newspaper in an article published
Feb. 2 that a rate increase now would prevent a “shock to
confidence” caused by bigger moves later, and the minutes of
the January decision “reflect a growing concern about
inflationary pressures that are coming through.” Weale wrote in
the Guardian on Jan. 31 that persistent above-target inflation
creates a “powerful case” for higher rates.  By contrast, Bean tempered his comments on  interest rates 
by saying in a Western Mail newspaper interview that the
recovery remained “fragile” and he sees inflation returning to
the bank’s target. Nevertheless, he added that signs that a
pickup in commodity prices has become permanent and will
entrench faster price gains means “we may well have to respond
to that by keeping domestically generated inflation lower.”  Rate Push  For now, Sentance and Weale may be unable to convince a
majority of their colleagues to join their push.  Adam Posen 
remains of the view that the economy needs more stimulus, saying
in a Jan. 21 interview that spare capacity and budget cuts will
help to cool inflation.  All 62 economists in a Bloomberg News survey forecast the
bank will leave the benchmark interest rate at a record low of
0.5 percent next week. They’ll also keep their bond purchase
plan at 200 billion pounds ($321 billion), said all 38
economists in a separate poll.    George Buckley , an economist at Deutsche Bank AG in London,
said  Bank of England  Chief Economist Spencer Dale may be
disposed to tighter policy since he opposed an increase in the
bond plan in November 2009 to the current target. The other
members have either indicated a preference for looser policy or
not given a clear signal.  Still, a move next week or in May would fit with a pattern
for the bank to change policy in months where it’s completed a
quarterly forecasts, Buckley said. King will publish the latest
projections in London on Feb. 16.  “We think they’re going to stay on hold, but it’s not a
done deal by any stretch,” Buckley said. “The risks certainly
have shifted over the past week.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  