-- BofA to Get $700 Million for Insurer Chief Moynihan Had `No Reason' To Own
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 2011-02-04T21:29:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/bofa-gets-700-million-for-unit-lender-has-no-reason-to-own.html
  Bank of America Corp ., the largest
U.S. lender by assets, will get at least $700 million from  QBE
Insurance Group Ltd . for the Balboa insurance unit, exiting the
market for coverage of foreclosed homes and those with
distressed buyers.  QBE,  Australia ’s largest insurer, will also make
unspecified future payments for the unit,  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America said in a statement. The
companies agreed to a 10-year distribution deal in which QBE
will cover properties for Bank of America, the Sydney-based
insurer said in a separate  statement  today.  Bank of America Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan ,
51, is focusing on retail customers, commercial borrowers and  investment banking , and getting rid of unrelated assets to raise
capital. Balboa, obtained by Bank of America with the 2008
purchase of Countrywide Financial Corp., is among the largest
providers of lender-placed coverage in the U.S.  “They really have no reason to be in this business,” said
Jonathan Hatcher, a Jefferies Group Inc. analyst in  New York .
Given that the bank also originates and services loans for
properties that need insurance, “if Balboa was owned by someone
else, then there’s not this possible look of a conflict of
interest.”  Bank of America sold about $19 billion in assets last year,
Moynihan said in a call with analysts on Jan. 21. In November,
the lender sold most of its stake in BlackRock Inc. for about
$8.3 billion.  QBE Acquisitions  QBE, which bought ZC Sterling Corp. in 2008 to add to U.S.
sales of lender-placed coverage, has grown to operations in 49
countries and 13,500 employees through more than 125
acquisitions in the past three decades, according to its
 website . The firm has struck deals for 11 acquisitions in the
U.S. since 1996, including Balboa, worth a combined total of
more than $4 billion, according to Bloomberg data.  Banks require mortgage investors to purchase insurance
protecting seized houses against vandalism and storm damage.
Balboa competes with  Munich Re , QBE and  Assurant Inc ., the No. 1
seller in the U.S. of lender-placed insurance.  “We’re focusing our resources on our core customer-facing
activities, and the sale today is consistent with that
strategy,” said  Jerry Dubrowski , a spokesman for Bank of
America. “We really don’t need to own an insurance company to
be able to provide lender-placed insurance to our customers.
We’ll be able to accomplish that through a distribution
agreement that we have now with QBE.”  Distribution Deal  The 10-year distribution deal with Bank of America also
applies to voluntary home coverage and vehicle insurance,
according to QBE’s statement.  Bank of America slipped 14 cents to $14.29 at 4:01 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. QBE jumped 7.4
percent, the most since January 2008 in Sydney, after saying the
new business is more profitable than its own and it won’t sell
shares to fund the deal.  Countrywide bought Balboa in 1999 for $425 million from
Associates First Capital Corp. Bank of America took a $2 billion
writedown on its Countrywide operations in the fourth quarter,
saying the unit’s value had declined because of litigation and
foreclosure costs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Hugh Son in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut in New York at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  