-- Bank of America Promotes Laughlin to Clean Up Soured Mortgages
-- B y   P e t e r   E i c h e n b a u m   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2011-02-05T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/bofa-creates-unit-to-resolve-soured-mortgages-led-by-laughlin.html
  Bank of America Corp . Chief Executive
Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  promoted a former FleetBoston
Financial Inc. colleague to clean up soured mortgages that
fueled losses at the biggest U.S. lender by assets.  Terry Laughlin, 56, will lead the new Legacy Asset
Servicing unit for modifying delinquent mortgages, handling
foreclosures and resolving investor disputes over faulty loans
originated by the company. He joined Bank of America in August,
leaving his post as CEO of Pasadena-based OneWest Bank. Laughlin
was head of strategy at Fleet, and was on the executive
committee with Moynihan.  Bank of America, based in  Charlotte , North Carolina,
separated the duties of resolving problem mortgages from the
tasks of originating new business and servicing loans. As of
Dec. 31, the bank faced outstanding claims that it repurchase
 $10.7 billion  in mortgages from investors who said they were
duped into buying or backing loans based on overstated home
values or borrowers’ incomes.  “This is very positive and in my opinion was long
overdue,” said David Lykken, president of Mortgage Banking
Solutions, an Austin, Texas-based consulting firm. “There has
been a lot going on for one person to manage.”    Barbara Desoer , head of home loans and insurance, will
continue to build mortgage lending, serving more than 12 million
customers, the company said.  The arrangement provides “greater focus on resolving
legacy mortgage issues,” Moynihan, 51, said yesterday in a
statement. “We believe this will best serve customers, both
those seeking homeownership and those who face mortgage
challenges.”  Hiring Workers  Moynihan reassigned sales people to modify mortgages and
brought in workers to aid the effort, crimping results at the
bank. The company has hired and trained about 12,000 people for
the duties over the past two years, according to the statement.  “Brian has a habit of surrounding himself by people that
worked at Fleet,” said  Tony Plath , a finance professor at the
University of  North Carolina  at Charlotte. “This shows the bank
is beginning to acknowledge that the severity of the defaulted
loan operation is more than they thought.”  By September of last year, Moynihan had installed three
former FleetBoston colleagues at Bank of America. In addition to
Laughlin, he’d recruited hedge-fund manager Mike Lyons as a
strategy and planning executive and promoted Lauren Mogensen to
deputy general counsel and corporate secretary.  Laughlin’s a good choice for the role, Lykken said.  “Laughlin is a good servicing guy and will likely be much
more proactive in putting things in place,” Lykken said. “He
should be a refreshing change to the servicing part of the
operation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Eichenbaum in  New York  at 
 peichenbaum@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  