-- Brazil Minimum-Wage Fight May Derail Austerity Drive
-- B y   I u r i   D a n t a s
-- 2011-02-04T18:38:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/brazil-unions-fight-for-higher-wage-may-derail-rousseff-s-austerity-drive.html
Brazilian unions remain at odds with
President  Dilma Rousseff  over the country’s minimum wage after
labor leaders met with her finance minister today to push for a
bigger raise than the government has endorsed.  The country’s monthly minimum wage rose 62 percent in real
terms under Rousseff’s predecessor, former metalworker Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, and she favors lifting it an additional
6.8 percent this year to 545 reais ($327) using a formula set by
the unions and Lula in 2006. Finance Minister  Guido Mantega ,
after meeting with labor leaders today in Sao Paulo, said the
government “won’t budge” in the face of demands by unions for
a boost to 580 reais.  If Rousseff yields, it could derail her plans to curb
spending needed to cool inflation running at a two-year high and
bring down the second-highest real  interest rates  in the Group
of 20. Under the formula, which is tied to inflation plus
economic growth of two years prior, spending is already set to
increase 10 billion reais this year because pension benefits are
indexed to the wage. A bigger headache waits in 2012 when the
wage adjustment may boost spending by 20 billion reais.  “This is a bomb that Dilma prefers not to disarm now,”
said  Christopher Garman , director for Latin America at Eurasia
Group, a Washington-based political risk group. “She may pay a
high price for keeping the agreement brokered by Lula. It will
make it harder to achieve fiscal austerity later in her term.”  No Lula  Rousseff, who took office Jan. 1, may lack the skills that
allowed her mentor Lula, a former union leader, to thrive in
negotiations with workers and Congress, Garman said in a
telephone interview. Her secretary general, Gilberto Carvalho,
will meet with  Brazil ’s six biggest union federations today in
Sao Paulo to discuss a deal on salaries this year and next.  “We don’t believe in the need to contain spending,” Paulo Pereira da Silva, a congressman from Sao Paulo state and head of
 Forca Sindical , the country’s No. 2 labor federation, said in a
phone interview. “That’s what the market wants.”  Congress is expected to vote on the wage increase by March.  If Rousseff offers a higher increase now in return for a
lower raise next year, the unions won’t agree, said Pereira,
whose Workers’  Democratic Party  is a member of the government’s
six-party coalition in the lower house.  Under current rules, Brazil’s recession in 2009 during the
global financial crisis should help keep wage increases in check
this year. The INPC price index used to adjust the wage rose
6.47 percent last year, while the economy shrank 0.2 percent in
2009.  Growth Easing  With growth in Latin America’s biggest economy easing from
last year’s estimated 7.3 percent, and inflation accelerating to
6.04 percent in the year through mid-January, workers will have
difficulty matching the real wage gains of recent years,  Andre Perfeito , chief economist at Sao Paulo-based Gradual
Investimentos, said in a note to clients Feb. 3.  A higher wage may fuel inflation. Average workers’ salaries
last year jumped 3.8 percent in real terms as unemployment fell
to a record low 5.3 percent, according to the national
statistics agency.  Rousseff, in a speech at the opening session of Congress
Feb. 2, told lawmakers she is committed to “maintaining a
macro-economic policy compatible with fiscal balance, a firm
control of inflation and rigorous use of public money.”  While promising to continue Lula’s policy of granting
workers’ wage increases above inflation, she said stable rules
needed to be put in place so that the salary gains are
“compatible with the state’s financial capacity.”  Contain Spending  Rousseff, 63, has pledged to contain spending, and her
economic team is working on a proposal to cut this year’s
budget, in a bid to lower interest rates. The government must
increase spending by 286.4 million reais for every one-real
increase in the minimum wage, according to the Budget Ministry.  Policy makers last month raised the benchmark rate for the
first time since July to 11.25 percent. The central bank will
boost the overnight rate by at least an additional 50 basis
points, or 0.5 percent, at its March meeting, Bloomberg
estimates based on interest rate-futures show.  Central government outlays accelerated in 2009 to help
Brazil recover from the financial crisis, and sped up again in
2010 in the run-up to Rousseff’s election, Treasury figures
show. Expenditures in 2010 jumped 22.4 percent to 700 billion
reais after rising 14.9 percent in 2009.  The country’s  budget surplus  before interest payments, the
so-called primary surplus, reached 2.8 percent of gross domestic
product last year, falling short of the government’s 3.1 percent
target.  Wage Concessions  The need to reduce spending will limit Rousseff’s ability
to make wage concessions, said Rafael Cortez, a political
scientist at Tendencias Consultoria Integrada.  “Besides cuts in spending, the government will need to
deliver a primary budget surplus equal to 3 percent of GDP,”
Cortez said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “That
doesn’t leave room for a minimum wage much higher than 545
reais.”  The squeeze on resources is being compounded by Rousseff’s
pledge to invest 955 billion reais over the next four years to
modernize the country’s airports, improve roads and carry out
infrastructure improvements ahead of hosting the 2014  World Cup 
and 2016 Olympics.  Boosting the minimum wage has a ripple effect throughout
the budget because it’s used to annually adjust pension payments
and some welfare benefits. Garman estimates that almost 80
percent of the increase in current expenditures under Lula was
tied to the minimum wage. Rousseff needs to create a new formula
in order to make annual increases more sustainable, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  