-- Brzezinski Says Pushing Egypt, Mubrarak Too Hard Could Empower Radicals
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2011-02-04T20:21:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/brzezinski-says-pushing-egypt-mubrarak-too-hard-could-empower-radicals.html
Zbigniew Brzezinski, national
security adviser to President  Jimmy Carter , said pushing Egypt’s
President  Hosni Mubarak  to step down before there’s a succession
process in place may empower Islamic radicals.  “The more we push for rapid change, the longer the crisis,
and the greater the probability that there will be more
radicalization,” Brzezinski said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this
weekend. Handled right, he said, Egypt is “going to be more
like  Turkey ” than  Iran .  Brzezinski agreed with President  Barack Obama  that Mubarak
must leave, “but haste makes waste.”  Obama, in a Feb. 1 speech, said he had spoken with Mubarak
after the Egyptian president announced plans not to seek
reelection this year. Obama said the transition to a new
leadership in  Egypt  must be “meaningful, it must be peaceful,
and it must begin now.”  “You don’t talk to a proud foreign nation by telling them
what to do,” Brzezinski said, taking exception to Obama saying
the transition “must begin now.” Instead, the U.S. should work
to create the “political process for transition” because there
isn’t a clearly defined opposition with which to negotiate.  Mubarak has replaced ministers and promised free elections,
at which point he would step down. That hasn’t assuaged
protesters who demand that he quit immediately, after 30 years
in power.  U.S. and Egyptian officials have held talks on a proposed
transitional government led by his newly appointed vice
president,  Omar Suleiman , to include the banned Muslim
Brotherhood and other opposition groups, the New York Times
reported.  Muslim Brotherhood  Any U.S. pressure on Egypt’s military to oust Mubarak now
may lead to a fracture in the armed forces, confrontations and
“the chances of the Muslim Brotherhood benefiting from it are
increased,” Brzezinski said. “I think it’s avoidable. But I
think we have to be judicious in our posture.”  Brzezinski said the Brotherhood, a Sunni Islamic group, is
“basically committed to the religious notion of a state” and
yet is not as fanatical as Iran-backed Shiite Muslim movement
Hezbollah.  Still, the U.S. should talk to members of the Brotherhood
if they “become part of the political game,” Brzezinski said.
The U.S. should also speak with the Islamic Hamas group in the  Gaza Strip  and the Hezbollah, because if “we don’t talk to
these groups, they become gradually more radical and eventually
they’ll have more and more political influence,” he said.    Israel  Impact  Brzezinski said Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s
fears that a democratic Egypt may be less friendly with Israel
may be legitimate. Still, if Netanyahu took a harder line
against Palestinians and the peace process, it may alienate
Israel, Brzezinski said.  Israel’s opportunity to make peace with Palestinians is
“gradually slipping,” Brzezinski said. “This is an argument
for moving forward with the peace process and not saying, well,
we can’t trust them, and therefore we’re going to wait for the
situation to get worse.”  Obama, who has “gone on record saying there has to be
peace, there shouldn’t be settlements” in Palestinian
territories, should get involved in the  peace process  “sooner
rather than later” because the Israeli-Palestinian “problem
can’t be solved without” the U.S., Brzezinski said. Obama has
to lead forcefully because “no one follows a hesitant leader.”  ‘Historical Vision’  Brzezinski, who was one of the earliest backers of Obama’s
presidential candidacy in August 2007, criticized the president
for backing off his stated goals in the peace process when faced
with resistance. “That doesn’t encourage people to follow
him,” he said.  Obama has had difficulty “translating his historical
vision” into practice, Brzezinski said. The president
“understands what this century requires from America and what
is required of America in this century -- but there is somehow
or other a disconnect.”  “That weakness may be structural. It may be personal. But
I think it handicaps our ability to respond.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in  Washington  at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net  