-- Budimex, CEZ, Orlen, Zachodni: Central European Equity Preview
-- B y   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i   a n d   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i
-- 2011-02-04T07:37:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/budimex-pkn-orlen-shares-central-european-equity-preview.html
The following is a list of companies
whose shares may have unusual price changes in central European
markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses after company names.
Share prices are from the last close.    Poland ’s WIG20 Index gained 0.3 percent, the Czech PX Index
fell 1 percent and Hungary’s BUX Index decreased 0.7 percent.    Budimex SA  (BDX PW): Poland’s second-largest publicly
traded construction company plans to pay out a “good” dividend
from last year’s profit, Dariusz Blocher, chief executive
officer, said in an interview with TVN CNBC television. Budimex
fell 1.2 percent to 96.7 zloty.    CEZ AS  (CEZ CP): The Czech Republic’s largest power utility
was rated “buy” in new coverage at UBS AG.  Separately, CEZ is investing 401 million koruna ($23
million) in a project to build small power-generating units, as
it seeks to expand into new markets, Hospodarske Noviny
reported, citing Michal Rzyman, a CEZ executive. CEZ shares
declined 0.9 percent to 818 koruna.  PKN Orlen SA (PKN PW): The Lithuanian unit of Poland’s
largest oil refiner and retailer signed a $1 billion agreement
to sell diesel to a unit of BP Plc this year, the company said
in a regulatory statement. Orlen decreased 0.1 percent to 46.49
zloty.    Telekomunikacja Polska SA  (TPS PW): Poland’s phone
regulator will decide this month on a request by the country’s
biggest phone company for subsidies in exchange for spending on
obligatory services, rp.pl reported, citing Anna Strezynska, who
heads the watchdog. Its shares rose 0.2 percent to 16.85 zloty.    Bank Zachodni WBK SA  (BZW PW): Banco Santander SA expects
the Polish financial regulator’s ruling on the purchase of Bank
Zachodni by May or June, Chairman  Emilio Botin  said, according
to Puls Biznesu. Zachodni climbed 0.3 percent to 218.6 zloty.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw 
 Mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net ;
Pawel Kozlowski in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  