-- Buy Marriott Options as Shares May Decline, MKM Says
-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2011-02-04T21:45:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/buy-marriott-options-as-shares-may-drop-on-earnings-mkm-says.html
Investors should use Marriott
International Inc. options to protect their stock holdings if
the largest U.S. hotel chain declines after it reports earnings
this month, MKM Partners LP said.  Derivatives strategist Jim Strugger recommended buying
February $39 puts while selling February $41 calls in a strategy
known as a “collar” that will offer shareholders a hedge if
the hotelier drops. Bethesda, Maryland-based Marriott fell 0.1
percent to $40 today.  “Some caution is warranted into earnings” for hotel
stocks, Strugger wrote in a note today. “Given the strength of  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc .’s earnings and outlook,
the stock’s 0.8 percent decline yesterday appeared surprising,”
saying it signals to analyst Chris Agnew, who covers the company
for MKM, that there’s “potential risk” to Starwood’s peers
“through the remainder of earnings season.”  Strugger cited Agnew as saying Marriott may be
“particularly vulnerable” because he expects the company,
which more than doubled in the past two years, to report
earnings in line with estimates as opposed to Starwood, which
beat profit predictions and still fell, the note said. Analysts
forecast the Marriott’s fourth-quarter profit will be 36 cents a
share excluding some items, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Starwood’s profit of 52 cents a share excluding some items
beat estimates by 32 percent yesterday. The shares fell
yesterday to $60.33.  Marriott’s implied volatility, the key gauge of option
prices, for at-the-money options expiring in 30 days rose to
30.01 from its three-year low of 24.34 in December.  Calls give the right to buy 100 shares of a security for a
certain amount, the strike price, by a set date. Puts convey the
right to sell. Investors use options to guard against
fluctuations in the price of securities they own, speculate on
share-price moves or bet that volatility, or stock swings, will
rise or fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in  New York  at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 