-- Cameron’s Soggy Diving Journey; Portman’s Troubled Lawyer: Film
-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 2011-02-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/cameron-s-soggy-diving-adventure-portman-s-troubled-lawyer-rick-warner.html
Splash. Scream. Gurgle.  Those are the sounds of “ Sanctum ,” the James Cameron-
produced 3-D underwater adventure, drowning in a sea of wooden
acting, hackneyed dialogue and corny plot twists.  The movie about a perilous cave-diving expedition sinks
faster than the Titanic, whose watery grave Cameron turned into
gold.  While Cameron didn’t direct “Sanctum” -- that dubious
distinction goes to Australian Alister Grierson -- you’d have a
hard time knowing that from the ads hyping his connection to the
film.  Most disappointing are the underwater scenes that make up
most of the movie. Though “Sanctum” was shot with cutting-edge
3-D cameras developed by Cameron for ‘Avatar,” there’s nothing
particularly exciting about the diving scenes, which were filmed
in a massive water tank at a studio in Queensland,  Australia .  The setting is supposed to be “the most beautiful, most
unexplored and least accessible cave system in the world.”  Take away a few spectacular shots of deep-sea cliffs and
you’re left with SpongeBob’s sea world.  The script, by John Garvin and Andrew Wight, focuses on the
strained relationship between hard-nosed mission leader Frank
(Richard Roxburgh) and his sensitive teenage son Josh (Rhys
Wakefield), who resents being dragged along on his dad’s life-
threatening exploits. Other divers include financier Carl (Ioan Gruffudd) and his hot girlfriend Victoria (Alice Parkinson),
whose main contribution is looking fabulous in a wetsuit.  Vulture on Shoulder  The dialogue isn’t so sexy. I can’t remember the last movie
I saw with so many trite lines.  “Panic is the vulture that sits on your shoulder” one
character muses. “I don’t want to die down here,” moans
another.  The mostly Australian cast is stuck in melodrama mode,
delivering their lines as if they were acting in a TV soap
opera. Like several of the divers who don’t make it out alive,
the film never gets its head above water.  “Sanctum,” from  Universal Pictures , is playing across the
U.S. Rating: *  ‘The Other Woman’  I wonder when Natalie Portman sleeps.  She’s engaged to ballet star Benjamin Millepied and
expecting their first child. She’s favored to win the best-
actress Oscar for   Black Swan .” Her romantic comedy, “No
Strings Attached,” opened last month. And, oh yes, she has
three other films coming out this year.  This week’s Portman offering is “ The Other Woman ,” in
which she plays a beleaguered lawyer with more domestic problems
than  Charlie Sheen .  Emilia, portrayed by Portman with grim tenacity, is a
Harvard Law School grad who falls in love with her wedded boss
(Scott Cohen) at a  New York  firm, marries him and has a baby,
who mysteriously dies after three days. She also must cope with
her estranged father (Michael Cristofer), her husband’s cranky
8-year-old son (Charlie Tahan) and his ferocious ex-wife (Lisa Kudrow).  The film, written and directed by Don Roos (“Single White
Female”), has a few humorous exchanges between Emilia and her
stepson, but overall it’s like watching a train wreck in slow
motion.  “The Other Woman,” from  IFC Films , is playing in New York
and  Los Angeles . Rating: *1\2  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 