-- Canada Rebuff of BCE Over Internet Billing Paves Way for Netflix to Expand
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2011-02-04T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/canada-rebuffs-bce-on-internet-billing-by-overturning-regulator.html
Industry Minister Tony Clement has
rebuffed efforts by Canada’s largest cable and phone companies
such as  BCE Inc . to impose per-use billing on  Internet service
providers , assuaging concerns that consumer costs could rise and
paving the way for firms such as  Netflix Inc . to keep expanding.  Clement  said yesterday  he would overrule last month’s
decision by the Ottawa-based Canadian Radio-television and
Telecommunications Commission that would have forced usage-based
billing on smaller Internet service providers, which use the
networks of companies such as  Rogers Communications Inc . and  Shaw Communications Inc . The regulator’s decision may have made
it uneconomical for the providers to offer packages with no
limits on  Internet access  to some customers.  Growing opposition to usage-based billing coincided with
the September entrance of Netflix into the Canadian market.
Netflix, based in  Los Gatos ,  California , began offering a
package that let customers download unlimited movies for about
C$8.00 ($8.00) a month. Charging customers for the amount of
bandwidth they use would have generated “hidden costs” for
such services, said Michael Geist, a law professor at the
University of Ottawa who specializes in Internet issues.  “It doesn’t take long before you hit your cap and you are
effectively paying extra to download these movies,” Geist said.
“There’s a lot of people out there who believe that this is
really all about Netflix” and other Internet video providers.  Competing Directly  Major Canadian phone companies offer their own movie
download services through cable or satellite television,
competing directly with Netflix’s  Internet service . BCE and
other major telecom companies already have usage-based billing
for their Internet customers, and sought to impose the same
pricing system on service providers such as such Primus and
TekSavvy who buy bandwidth on their networks.  The CRTC  ruled Jan. 25  that the phone and cable companies
could charge Internet service providers using the same per-use
formula as their own retail customers, with a 15 percent
discount.  “Under a Conservative government, this ruling will not be
implemented,” Clement told reporters yesterday in Ottawa. The
regulator has to work “within the policies and programs that
have been enunciated by the government,” he said.  Clement’s comments came minutes after CRTC Chairman Konrad von Finckenstein told lawmakers in parliamentary testimony he
would review his own decision amid growing opposition from
Internet advocacy groups and all four of the country’s main
political parties, including the governing Conservatives.  Threatened Expansion  While Netflix’s current growth in  Canada  outpaces that in
the U.S., the imposition of per-use billing threatened to slow
the expansion, said Chief Executive Officer Reed Hastings.  Usage-based billing is something “we’re definitely worried
about,” Hastings said on a conference call with analysts last
week. He said Canadians who have Internet service with download
limits may not understand how their plans work and their
reaction after receiving a couple of bills “ is potentially a
significant negative for Netflix.”  About 550,000, or 6 percent, of the households that
subscribe to high-speed Internet in Canada do so through small
providers, von Finckenstein said in  his testimony  yesterday,
where he defended his decision.  Usage-based billing is “a question of fundamental
fairness,” he told the House of Commons industry committee.
“Ordinary users should not be forced to subsidize heavy
users.”  ‘Eager to Participate’  Mark Langton, a spokesman for BCE, said the company is
“eager to participate in the process,” adding “our overall
position remains the same -- the very heaviest users should not
be subsidized by other Internet customers.”  Rogers will participate in the CRTC review of usage-based
billing, company spokeswoman Jan Innes said, declining to
comment further.  Sales of Internet services account for C$6.6 billion ($6.6
billion) of the country’s C$41 billion telecommunications
industry, according to the regulator’s latest available  data .  The Canadian Network Operators Consortium Inc., which
represents small  Internet providers , wrote to Clement on Feb. 1
asking the government to have the regulator reconsider its
decision.  The group said the ruling would “unduly reduce competition
in the provision of retail services and harm Canadian consumers,
culture and the economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  