-- Canada Banks Urged to Limit Early Redemptions on Hybrids
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2011-02-04T22:50:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/canada-banks-urged-by-regulator-to-limit-early-redemptions-on-hybrid-bonds.html
Canada’s banking regulator urged the
country’s lenders to avoid early redemptions of so-called hybrid
bonds, which have plunged in the last six months on concern the
lenders may buy the notes back at below current prices.  Banks are urged “to the maximum extent possible” to
redeem “instruments at their regular par redemption date”
rather than relying on redemption “due to a regulatory event,”
the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions said
today in an  advisory  on its  website .  “It sure looks like good news for people who hold these
bonds,” said Julian Pope, vice president of corporate bond
trading in Desjardins Securities’ fixed-income group in Toronto.
“OSFI is using moral suasion to basically tell the banks ‘Don’t
exercise your regulatory event par  call option  unless you
absolutely have to.’”  Banks that opt to redeem the securities early should inform
investors of the schedule for the unwinding of the notes and
seek approval from the regulator, Ottawa-based OSFI said.  “We are basically saying that using a regulatory event call
is an extraordinary measure, and should be used by a bank when
it’s not able to manage within the” global banking guidelines,
Mark White, the assistant superintendent, told reporters on a
conference call.  “We are looking at making them disclose in advance so that
there is transparency in the marketplace,” White said. “They
will need OSFI approval before they do the actual redemption.”  Hybrid Notes  The guidelines affect bank-issued hybrid notes and other
securities that were sold in 2008 and 2009 to bolster regulatory
capital during the financial crisis. The regulator also released
a draft  advisory  on requirements for “contingent capital” that
would help banks cover future losses.  Regulators globally are toughening rules that govern banks
because hybrid debt securities didn’t provide a buffer for
losses in the 2008 financial meltdown. Under guidelines adopted
last month by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , most
hybrids will gradually stop counting as capital over a decade
starting in 2013.  The amount of non-common capital in Canadian banks is in
excess of C$70 billion ($70.9 billion), all of which will need
to be made compliant under the new rules or be redeemed by 2023,
White said.  Canada’s banks raised a combined C$5.95 billion selling
hybrid notes in 2008 and 2009 to bolster their capital during
the financial crisis. Now that the crisis has eased, the banking
regulator wants the lenders to exclude the securities from their
calculation of so-called  Tier 1 capital .  Prices Plunged  Prices for the securities have plunged on concern that the
regulator may allow the banks to redeem the notes early at par,
or as much as 30 percent below current prices.  TD Capital Trust’s 10 percent notes due in June 2108 sold
by Toronto-Dominion fell 15.6 percent to 129.78 cents on the
dollar in the six months through yesterday, while Scotiabank
Tier 1 Trust’s 7.8 percent notes due in June 2108 dropped 5.8
percent. Declines in the period average 7.5 percent, according
to Bloomberg data.  Hybrids blend the characteristics of debt and equity. They
rank behind traditional bonds in a company’s capital structure,
typically have maturities of more than 30 years and allow
borrowers to skip debt payments without triggering a default.  Early Redemption  A bank that would redeem these non-qualifying securities
early would be able to cut borrowing costs while wiping out
investor gains. The hybrid securities have higher yields than
normal bonds because they were issued months after Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in 2008, which pushed up
spreads on corporate debt.    Toronto-Dominion Bank  is the Canadian borrower that has the
biggest amount of “par call” hybrid securities issued, with
C$1.75 billion outstanding in total. Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce is next with C$1.6 billion, followed by  Manulife
Financial Corp . with C$1 billion.  Today’s ruling excludes insurance companies such as
Manulife.  “We will, at some point, turn our minds to all of the
Basel III changes, and which ones will be adopted for insurance
companies,” White said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  