-- Car Fund Seeking Bugattis; $1.6 Million Vase in Attic: Art Buzz
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2011-02-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/car-fund-seeking-bugattis-1-6-million-vase-in-attic-art-buzz.html
A Swiss-based asset management firm
is seeking to profit from rising prices for collectable cars.  The  Classic Car Fund  aims to make a return of 17 percent a
year by buying and selling a variety of investment-grade
classics, ranging from prewar Bugattis to postwar Pontiac muscle
cars, its manager Filippo Pignatti said.  “We’ve used the model of an art fund,” Pignatti said in
an interview. “Everyone knows what a classic car is worth. The
skill is to know when to buy them and when to sell them.”  The fund follows IGA Automobile LP, advised by Pink Floyd
drummer Nick Mason, which plans to buy sought-after autos. The
 Hagerty’s Cars That Matter  “Blue Chip” Index, measuring
prices, rose 67 percent in four years to the end of 2010.
Investors are watching to see if the funds can succeed in a
market that can be as risky as alternative investments in art,
whisky and wine.  The open-ended fund, registered in Liechtenstein, was set
up by the Count of Custoza Family Office AG in Zurich and will
be quoted next week on the  Fondsboerse Deutschland , Pignatti
said. He plans to raise 50 million euros in the first year.
Investors can participate for as little as 100 euros. The fund
has a target capitalization of 350 million euros after five
years.  “We’re quoting it on the German fund exchange so that it
can be available to Americans,” said Pignatti. The fund will be
valued continuously and is open to U.S. investors. The rival IGA
fund, which began marketing last month, isn’t open to U.S.-based
account holders.  Ming Vase  A Chinese porcelain Ming “moonflask” vase found in a box
is estimated to sell for as much as 1 million pounds ($1.6
million) at an auction house in Dorset,  England , on May 12.  “An old boy brought in a cardboard box of stuff, and the
blue and white vase was just in there,” Guy Schwinge, director
of the Dorchester-based auction house  Duke’s , said in an
interview. “When I first saw it, I couldn’t believe it.”  The vase dates from the Yongle period (1403-1424) and is
decorated with Islamic-style motifs. It is in perfect condition
and has a low estimate of 500,000 pounds, Schwinge said. The
owner is a 79-year-old former worker at Cadbury’s.  The “attic find” follows the sale of a Qing vase, found
in a house clearance, for 51.6 million pounds at  Bainbridges  in
Ruislip, west  London , on Nov. 11 -- a record for any Chinese
work offered at auction. The Beijing-based bidder who bought it
was given some time to pay and collect. Bainbridge said on Feb.
3 that payment hadn’t been received, though this wasn’t a
concern. He wouldn’t say when the invoice was due.  “It would have been naive to expect immediate payment for
a piece of that value,” said the London-based dealer  Alastair
Gibson , a former Asian-art department head at Sotheby’s.  “Auction houses routinely give extended payment terms for
objects of more than $100,000,” Gibson said. “If you’re
dealing with Mr. Big in Beijing, it’s difficult to force the
issue. They’re happy to allow things to sit in strongboxes. I
wouldn’t be surprised if we’re talking about this in two years’
time.”  Singer’s Wine  Singer-songwriter Chris de Burgh is selling part of his
wine collection.  De Burgh, whose hits include the 1986 “Lady in Red,” will
be offering 320 bottles and 84 magnums from his private cellar
at Christie’s International in London on March 24.  The total estimate of 200,000 pounds includes 90,000 pounds
for 62 magnums of Chateau Mouton-Rothschild in vintages from
1945 to 2005.  Last month,  Andrew Lloyd Webber  sold a selection from his
cellar at  Sotheby’s   Hong Kong , raising HK$43.3 million ($5.6
million) against a high estimate of HK$32 million.  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 