-- Celtics' Kevin Garnett Among 14 Players Selected as NBA All-Star Reserves
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2011-02-04T05:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/celtics-kevin-garnett-among-14-players-selected-as-nba-all-star-reserves.html
Boston Celtics forward  Kevin Garnett 
and three teammates are among the seven reserves chosen for the
2011 National Basketball Association All-Star game’s Eastern
Conference team.  Garnett is joined by teammates Ray Allen, Paul Pierce and
Rajon Rondo, as well as the Atlanta Hawks’ Al Horford and Joe Johnson, and the Miami Heat’s Chris Bosh at the 60th NBA All-
Star game on Feb. 20 at the Staples Center in  Los Angeles .  Garnett’s 14th straight selection ties Jerry West, Karl Malone and  Shaquille O’Neal  as players with the most consecutive
picks in league history.  Pau Gasol of the  Los Angeles Lakers , Los Angeles Clippers
rookie Blake Griffin, Dirk Nowitzki of the Dallas Mavericks, the
Oklahoma City Thunder’s Russell Westbrook, the San Antonio
Spurs’  Tim Duncan  and Manu Ginobili, and Deron Williams of the
Utah Jazz were chosen as reserves for the Western Conference
team.  The 30 NBA coaches voted for the reserves in their own
conference -- two guards, two forwards, one center and two
players regardless of position. They couldn’t select anyone on
their own team.  Celtics coach Doc Rivers will direct the Eastern Conference
starting team of Derrick Rose of the Chicago Bulls, Heat
teammates LeBron James and Dwyane Wade, the New York Knicks’
Amar’e Stoudemire and Dwight Howard of the Orlando Magic.  San Antonio’s Gregg Popovich will coach the West starting
team of the Denver Nuggets’ Carmelo Anthony, Kevin Durant of the
Thunder, injured Houston Rockets center  Yao Ming , the Lakers’
Kobe Bryant and the New Orleans Hornets’ Chris Paul.  NBA Commissioner David Stern will choose a replacement for
Yao, who has a stress fracture in his left ankle. Popovich will
decide who replaces him in the starting lineup.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  