-- Census Finds Hurricane Katrina Left New Orleans Richer, Whiter, Emptier
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2011-02-04T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/census-finds-post-katrina-new-orleans-richer-whiter-emptier.html
Five years after  Hurricane Katrina 
drove Lena Johnson from New Orleans, her family’s home since the
1930s, she misses its food, music and Mardi Gras. And she never
wants to live there again.  “It was like a bird leaving a cage,” said Johnson, 60, a
New Orleans Chamber of Commerce employee for 24 years who left
for  Dallas  and recently earned a college degree there. “I’m in
Texas because there’s opportunity for me to grow. Home is still
suffering.”  The extent of the exodus after the August 2005 disaster can
be gauged by 2010 Census data released yesterday. New Orleans
lost 140,845 residents, a drop of 29 percent from 2000. The
percentage of black population fell to 60.2 percent from 67.3
percent. The loss in  New Orleans  translates into one fewer
congressional seat for Louisiana -- now six instead of seven.  “The city is more affluent, more Latin and a little whiter
than it was before Katrina,” said Jacques Morial, a community
organizer whose father and brother were its first and third
black mayors.  The storm, the most expensive natural disaster in U.S.
history, killed at least 1,330 people in Louisiana and  Mississippi ; 85 percent of New Orleans flooded after levees
collapsed. The  storm surge  extended as far as 10 miles inland,
displacing almost 200,000 residents, a congressional  report  in
February 2006 found.  Mississippi Thriving  Mississippi has rebounded more quickly. Its population grew
over the decade by 4.3 percent to 2.97 million in 2010, the
census data said.  Louisiana  gained 1.4 percent to 4.53 million.  Mississippi’s per-capita income grew 1.7 percent between
2006 and 2008 compared with 0.3 percent in Louisiana,  according 
to the Census Bureau. Since 2003,  PACCAR Inc ., Nissan Motor Co.
and GE Aviation have expanded production and jobs in
Mississippi.  Even before the floodwaters, New Orleans struggled. About
131,000 residents, or 28 percent, lived at or below the federal
poverty line, compared with 12 percent nationally, 2000 census
data showed. The median  household income  in New Orleans in 2000
was $27,133 compared to the national median of $41,994,
according to the census.  First Detailed Look  Census data released yesterday provide the first detailed
look at changes in state population demographics since 2000.
Louisiana, Mississippi,  New Jersey  and Virginia were the first
to receive census figures because their election cycles are
among the earliest in the U.S. State data will be released
through March 31 and the numbers will be used for drawing voting
districts.  “No major metropolitan area has ever gone through this
level of population change in a 10-year period,” said Alfred
Speer, clerk of the Louisiana House of Representatives and chief
legal counsel on the state’s redistricting plans.  “If New Orleans loses 100,000 people, that’s almost $1
billion in lost federal funds over 10 years given what local
governments expect to receive. And if they only lose 100,000,”
Speer said, referring to the 2010 count, “they probably ought
to be celebrating  Mardi Gras  early.”  Housing Demolished  Many poor residents have stayed away because fewer than a
quarter of the city’s 4,200 public housing units demolished by
the storm have been rebuilt, said Morial, who is with the
 Louisiana Justice Institute , which works on behalf of minorities
and the poor. The power of New Orleans’s black community has
been diluted, he said.  Others say that five years after the storm -- and weeks
before the March 8 culmination of carnival season -- a better
city is springing from the ruins.  New Orleans’ vitality belies the population decline, said
Leslie Jacobs, incoming chairman of  Greater New Orleans Inc.  The
10-county economic development group’s list of prospects exceeds
the combined total during the five years before the storm. The
schools, many reorganized by the state-run Recovery School
District, ranked first for educational reform in a Fordham
Institute  study  in August, Jacobs said.  “This city badly needed fresh blood and the storm
accelerated that process,” said Hal Brown, 61, who returned to
his hometown in 2004 after retiring from  Paladin Capital LLC ., a
Washington D.C.-based private equity fund. “The outlook is as
bright as any time I’ve noted, which for me dates to the
1960s,” said Brown, who is developing housing projects.  Federal Investment  Katrina’s devastation prompted $45 billion in federal
investment, said Greg Rigamer, chief executive officer of GCR, a
New Orleans consulting firm that studied the storm’s aftermath.
A $2.5 billion medical complex in the Mid-City neighborhood with
hospitals planned by the Veterans Administration and  Louisiana
State University  will be a job-generator, he said.  “So much got destroyed in Katrina and so much was broken
before the hurricane that it didn’t make sense to put Humpty
Dumpty back together again,” said Jacobs of Greater New Orleans
Inc. “It was a very moribund, staid city before Katrina.”  Mayor Mitch Landrieu cooperates with state and federal
officials better than his predecessor, Ray Nagin, Brown said.
Landrieu, who is white, received 64 percent of the black vote in
last February’s election, Rigamer said.  “Now that we have sensible leadership in city hall, the  population growth  in New Orleans will accelerate,” Brown said.  Political Influence  The storm hurt New Orleans’ political influence, with
Republican state legislators likely to eliminate one of the
three congressional districts that include sections of the metro
area, Rigamer said. Having more than 140,000 fewer citizens
could cost Orleans Parish, which encompasses the city, three or
more of its 10 state representatives, Speer said.  “The big story politically is the shift in power,” said
Kirby Goidel, an associate political science professor at
Louisiana State University in  Baton Rouge .  While Census Bureau employees sought responses from every
address in New Orleans, Morial expects the city to be one of the
most undercounted because so many residents have unconventional
living arrangements. His mother, Sybil, 76, moved to Baton Rouge
after Katrina to be near her two daughters and four
grandchildren. While she visits New Orleans two or three times a
week, only seven families have returned to her east-side
neighborhood, which he said retains dozens of vacant lots and
boarded-up homes.  Unemployed Left  Population statistics alone don’t account for how many
unemployed and poor residents left, while hundreds of young
teachers, artists and lawyers moved to the city after Katrina,
said Tom Piazza, a city resident and author of “Why New Orleans
Matters” and “City of Refuge.”  “If you are attuned to cultural expression, there is no
more exciting place in the continental  United States ,” he said.
“The people who’ve had the hardest time getting back to New
Orleans are those who had the fewest resources.”  Johnson, the Katrina refugee in Dallas, was born in New
Orleans’s  French Quarter  and started working at 13 at a
restaurant where her parents were chefs. Her brother, Darrell
Johnson, was a tap dancer and singer who was grand marshal of
 New Orleans JazzFest  parades in the mid-1970s. She recalls
helping her aunt work for months on her carnival  Indian  costume.  “I miss Mardi Gras,” she said. “That was part of the
fabric of being a citizen.”    Texas  Opportunities  Texas, however, provided opportunities the Crescent City
didn’t. After working for a call-center company, she received a
bachelor’s degree in sociology in December from the University
of North Texas at Dallas and is pursuing a second degree.  “In New Orleans people walk by and say ‘hi,’ and even if
you don’t know the person, it gives you a good feeling,”
Johnson said. “In Dallas, you say ‘good morning’ and people
walk past you like they don’t want to know you.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  