-- Chinese Flyers Buoy New Zealand Tourism's `Asian Growth Burst'
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2011-02-04T03:10:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/chinese-flyers-buoy-new-zealand-tourism-s-asian-growth-burst-.html
Chinese tourists to New Zealand
surged the most in eight years in 2010 while European and U.S.
arrivals fell, encouraging the nation to woo more visitors from
the world’s fastest growing economy.  The number of Chinese visitors rose by 20,450 from a year
earlier in 2010, the biggest increase since 2002, according to
 Statistics New Zealand  figures published today. Arrivals from
Japan,  Korea  and  India  also increased.  China Southern Airlines Co’s start of direct flights to
Auckland in April may bolster New Zealand’s tourist industry,
which is the second-biggest exporter after dairy.  Auckland
International Airport Ltd ., the country’s largest, expects to
add more flights to and from China this year to meet rising
demand.  “We hope to quickly grow the frequency of services from
both China Southern and Air New Zealand,” Glenn Wedlock, head
of business development at Auckland Airport, said in an e-mailed
response to questions from Bloomberg. “We are in regular
discussions with carriers.”  China Southern, the nation’s biggest airline, will start
three direct services a week between Guangzhou and Auckland, New
Zealand’s most populated city. The extra visitors are expected
to boost New Zealand’s economy by about NZ$75 million ($58
million) a year, Auckland Airport said in a statement on Jan. 12.  Chinese Tourists    Air New Zealand Ltd ., the nation’s largest carrier, already
flies direct to Beijing and  Shanghai  five times a week. The
Auckland-based carrier is seeking to increase its presence in
China, Chief Financial Officer Rob McDonald said in an interview
last week, without providing any details.  China is the fourth largest international tourism spender
and was the fastest growing outbound market in 2009, according
to UN World Tourism Organization figures.  The  World Bank  estimates that  China’s economy  will expand
8.7 percent this year, three times the pace of the U.S. The
country grew 9.8 percent in the fourth quarter.  Tourism officials expect visitors from other Asian nations
will spark spending in New Zealand as arrivals from the U.S. and
the U.K. remain sluggish. AirAsia BHd, the Malaysia-based budget
airline, has forecast 89,000 passengers in the first year of
operation of a flight between  Kuala Lumpur  and the South Island
city of Christchurch, also starting in April.  “We’ve really got an Asian growth burst in that we’re
seeing growth right across the region, and China in particular
is the most important market,” Kevin Bowler, chief executive
officer at  Tourism New Zealand , said in an interview. “The
additional aviation linkages into the southern region of China
will be a considerable impetus to the growth we’ve already
got.”  Foreigners’ Spending  Spending by foreign tourists rose 1.6 percent to NZ$9.54
billion ($7.4 billion) in the year ended March 31,  Statistics
New Zealand  said in a report published in October.  Tourism earned more than the  dairy industry  in the year
through March 31, 2010, according to the report. Annual sales of
butter, cheese and milk powder have increased to a record
NZ$10.3 billion for all of 2010.  Including domestic tourism, the industry makes up about 9
percent of gross domestic product and employment in tourist
services is about 10 percent of the nation’s workforce.    Australia  is  New Zealand ’s biggest source of visitors, with
arrivals from the nation rising 3.4 percent to 1.12 million last
year, today’s report showed. Asian arrivals rose by 15 percent
to 453,650 while European visitors fell 5.5 percent and U.S.
tourist numbers dropped 4.1 percent.  ‘Bright Light’    Asia  is a “bright light” in the outlook for tourism, said  Nick Tuffley , chief economist at ASB Bank Ltd. in Auckland.  “There are signs of Asia visitor numbers starting to pick
up,” he said in an interview. “They tend to stay, so that will
be a positive development. On a per-person” spending basis “it
has been a challenging time for the industry.”  Tourism New Zealand, a government agency that promotes the
country internationally, forecasts  China  will be the fastest
growing source of tourists the next seven years, rising at an
average of 8.4 percent a year to reach 180,000 by 2016.  Chinese visitors spent NZ$382 million in New Zealand in the
year ended Sept. 30, according to the agency. Expenditures are
forecast to increase by an average 9.1 percent a year and reach
NZ$619 million by 2016.  The agency said while Chinese visitors’ average spending
per night is the highest of any visitors, their length of stay
is the shortest of the major markets.  ‘Dual Visitors’  A lot of Chinese arrivals are “dual visitors” who visit
Australia as well, said Tourism New Zealand’s Bowler.
Establishing more direct flights will increase the length of
stay and spending, he said.  Guangzhou, in southern China, “is a more commercially
developed part of China, one of richest parts,” said Bowler.
“You’ve got a population of quite well travelled people
relative to across China.”  China Southern has the potential to increase the frequency
of its services under the terms of government agreements, he
said. It could also operate larger aircrafts if needed.  “We would expect that if the service is successful that
they would look to increase that frequency over, hopefully, the
near term,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net . 