-- Christie Gets Brushoff From Kraft as He Hunts Jobs in Illinois
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2011-02-04T18:47:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/christie-gets-brushoff-from-kraft-as-he-hunts-jobs-in-illinois.html
New Jersey Governor Chris Christie
flew to Illinois today, trying to sway business leaders to bring
their business east. He won’t say whom he’s meeting with. One
thing is certain: It’s no one from  Kraft Foods Inc .  “We received an invitation to meet with the governor, but
schedules were simply not conducive to a meeting at this time,”  Michael Mitchell , a spokesman for Northfield-based Kraft, the
state’s fourth-largest company by market capitalization, said in
an e-mail.    Kevin Roberts , a Christie spokesman, confirmed that the
first-term Republican governor went to Illinois on a commercial
flight this morning.  The administration wasn’t releasing details of the meetings
“in the interest of discretion,” said  Michael Drewniak ,
another spokesman. Drewniak said he didn’t know whether
taxpayers paid for the trip.  “He wants to be able to speak with these individuals
frankly and candidly,” Drewniak said in an interview. “It’s
not necessarily in a company’s best interest to even disclose
that they are considering a move.”  Christie, 48, along with governors in Indiana and
Wisconsin, has been trying to pry jobs from  Illinois  after
Democratic Governor Pat Quinn signed a record 67 percent tax
increase Jan. 12.  The New Jersey governor, a Republican, said Jan. 25 his
Democratic counterpart’s tax increases will “tank the economy”
in Illinois.  Illinois is Cheaper  Even with the increase, Illinois’s tax load is less than
New Jersey’s, whose state and local tax burden ranked first in
the nation in a  2008 survey  by the  Tax Foundation , a privately
funded research and advocacy organization in  Washington .
Illinois ranked 30th.  Illinois’s corporate tax increase moved it into fourth
place from 21st among U.S. states in overall business taxes, the
foundation said in a Jan. 13  report .  Representatives of four of the six largest publicly traded
businesses based in Illinois said no meetings with Christie were
planned.  Heidi Barker, a spokeswoman for  McDonald’s Corp ., the
state’s largest company according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
said in an e-mail the company had “no knowledge” of any
meeting.  John Dern, a spokesman for Chicago-based  Boeing Co ., the
world’s biggest aerospace company and fifth-largest Illinois
company, said by telephone that no meeting was planned.  Nothing Doing  “The staff that handles government affairs is not aware of
such a meeting and they normally would be notified,” Ken Golden, a spokesman for  Deere & Co ., the Moline-based farm and
construction equipment maker which is sixth largest, said in an
e-mail.  Adelle Infante of  Abbott Laboratories , the second-largest
company, and Jim Dugan of third-largest  Caterpillar Inc . did not
respond to telephone calls seeking comment.  Illinois faced a shortfall of at least $13 billion in the
2011 budget year. Lawmakers raised the personal income tax to 5
percent from 3 percent and the corporate income levy to 7
percent from 4.8 percent.  Christie, during a meeting with business leaders yesterday
in Newark, said he would meet with company executives in Chicago
today “about having some of them follow me back.”  What business leaders “want more than anything else is
certainty,” Christie said. His pitch, he said, would be: “In  New Jersey  you can be certain that taxes are going down over the
next three years. In Illinois you can be certain that they’re
going up.”  Hope Ahead  Christie is increasing confidence by creating an open
dialogue between his administration and business interests, said
Nancy Lurker, chief executive officer of Parsippany-based PDI
Inc., which sells and markets services for biotechnology and
medical device companies and employs 250 people in the state.  “Just the fact that you’re seeing hope on the horizon
makes an enormous difference psychologically,” Lurker said in
an interview after yesterday’s meeting. “I’ve been watching the
governor and the signals are very positive, so it certainly
leads me to say we’re going to be looking more to invest more in
the state rather than taking capital outside.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esmé E. Deprez in  New York  at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum in New York at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 