-- Citigroup Distressed Muni Hotel Deal May Point Way for Investor Takeovers
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r ,   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2011-02-04T05:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/citigroup-distressed-muni-hotel-deal-may-point-way-for-investor-takeovers.html
Private-equity firms and Wall Street
banks, struggling for returns in troubled corporate debt, are
seizing opportunities in the $28 billion market for distressed
municipal bonds.    Citigroup Inc ., the third-biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, took
control of St. Louis’s Renaissance Grand Hotel & Suites in
December when it bought revenue bonds backed by the 1,000-room
hotel after lenders foreclosed.  Fundamental Advisors LP , a New
York-based private-equity firm, gained control of the Memphis
Redbirds’ baseball franchise and the team’s AutoZone Park after
buying its tax-exempt debt.  The bonds, some of which changed hands for 53 cents on the
dollar, may herald a new outlet for investors in distressed debt
as credit quality deteriorates in the municipal market, where
defaults in the past three years exceeded the previous eight
years combined. The strategy of buying debt to gain control,
common in the corporate world, is being used to take over
revenue-producing municipal projects as the rebound in loan
prices frustrates corporate investors.  “Assets such as highways, water-treatment plants, sports
stadiums, racetracks, parking facilities or parks may be very
attractive,” said Deryck Palmer, co-chairman of financial
restructuring at Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft LLP in  New York .
“Distressed situations provide the ideal circumstance for
investors to enter municipal transactions.”  Loan to Own  Investors often target troubled corporate debt, in a
strategy known as loan-to-own, to gain ownership of ailing
companies in a restructuring, Palmer said. The same strategy may
be applied to certain municipal assets, where ownership isn’t
considered a liability, or investors may limit their influence
over a municipal asset to controlling how it’s sold or
refinanced, he said.  The St. Louis purchase gives Citigroup control of the
trustee that oversees the hotel after the New York-based bank
bought a majority stake in $98 million of revenue bonds backed
by the Renaissance from Nuveen Asset Management, according to
two people with knowledge of the deal who asked not to be
identified because the transaction was private. The Renaissance
was financed by bonds sold by the Industrial Development
Authority of  St. Louis  in 2000.  “Our goal is to reach the best outcome for the bondholders
and for St. Louis,” Citigroup spokesman  Alexander Samuelson 
said in an e-mailed statement. “In our role as market maker, we
provided liquidity for an investor by purchasing certain
bonds.”  St. Louis Trip  Citigroup has sent a pair of executives to St. Louis to
discuss the Renaissance with consultants, according to Steven
Stogel, president of DFC Group Inc. in St. Louis, a real-estate
developer who has advised the trustee. Robert Bray, general
manager of the Renaissance, declined to comment through an
assistant.  “My instructions from the trustee and the city are to
continue to work with the ownership group and to move towards
improving the operations in 2011,” Stogel said. “There will be
a sale at some point, whether it’s ‘11, ‘12, ‘13 or ‘14.”  The default rate on speculative-grade corporate debt has
fallen with the U.S. economic rebound, and those markets are
rallying. That means investors no longer expect leveraged loans
to produce the strong returns posted over the past few years,
according to Debtwire’s North American Distressed Debt Market
Outlook 2011. Leveraged loans, which offered the most appealing
opportunities for respondents last year, are now seen as the
least compelling, the survey by the New York-based news service
showed.  Downgrades, Upgrades  In the municipal  bond-market , rating downgrades outnumbered
upgrades for an eighth-straight quarter at the end of last year,
a pattern that will continue,  Fitch Ratings  said in a report
last month. Defaults from 2008 to 2010, at $18.6 billion,
exceeded the previous eight years’ combined $15.3 billion total,
according to  Richard Lehmann , publisher of Distressed Debt
Securities Newsletter.  Declining creditworthiness of some municipal borrowers
makes it possible to take control of projects by buying tax-
exempt debt, Palmer said. Investors may advance stalled
municipal projects by providing new funding or helping to
develop them into commercially viable enterprises, he said.  Fundamental Advisors purchased tax-exempt bonds last year
backed by both the Memphis Redbirds’ baseball franchise and the
team’s AutoZone Park, obtaining financial control of the 14,000-
seat stadium as well as the baseball team, a triple-A minor
league affiliate of the  St. Louis Cardinals .  Redbirds Baseball  The Memphis Redbirds Baseball Foundation, which spent $80
million building the stadium before defaulting in 2009, has
operated under forbearance agreements with creditors since
missing payments on its $72 million tax-exempt  bond issue ,
according to John Pontius, treasurer of the Memphis Redbirds
Baseball Foundation.  The Redbirds’ relationship with its original bondholders, a
group of asset managers and regional banks, became
“adversarial” after the team failed on its business plan and
operations suffered as it struggled to service debt, Pontius
said.  “We owed so much to the bondholders that we didn’t have
enough money to run the team properly,” said Pontius, who has
served as volunteer treasurer of the foundation since 2005. “We
had a database of potential customers who we weren’t calling and
repairs we weren’t making. Our new bondholders see this as a
partnership and are making reasonable judgments concerning the
working capital needs of the business.”  Pontius said the Redbirds have renewed calling efforts
since Fundamental Advisors purchased the debt and that sales are
poised to increase this season.  ‘Opaque Market’  “There are certainly opportunities in distressed projects
financed with municipal debt for investors who understand this
nuanced, opaque market,” said Laurence Gottlieb, chief
executive officer of Fundamental Advisors, who said the deals
are often difficult to make happen.  “The municipal bond market is in many ways more intricate
than the corporate one and there are substantially fewer deal-
oriented investors,” Gottlieb said.  Issuance of revenue bonds, which are backed by specific
projects such as a toll road, bridge or hotel, peaked in 2007 at
$317 billion, more than double the amount in 2000, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. They make up 80 percent of its
distressed securities, or $22.3 billion, Bloomberg data show.  Investment firms including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . have
discussed raising funds with investors that would target assets
backed by distressed revenue bonds, according to people familiar
with the talks. Among the potential targets are infrastructure
assets such as toll roads and  power plants , the people said.  Branson Airport  A fund managed by New York-based Goldman Sachs holds
revenue bonds backed by Branson Airport, a privately owned $155
million facility that opened in May 2009 in the Ozark Mountain
region near Branson, Missouri. The city has more than 50
performance theaters billed as the “Live Music Show Capital of
the World.” The airport’s construction, financed with about
$114 million of municipal debt, required displacing more than 11
million cubic yards of dirt in the largest earth-moving project
in  Missouri , according to its website.  Now Branson Airport LLC, which is led by former Greenwich
Capital Markets executive Stephen Peet, is in talks with the
Goldman Sachs fund and other bondholders over restructuring the
debt, according to a person familiar with the project. The
airport, which has dipped into reserve funds to pay bondholders,
lost $9.8 million for the first three quarters of 2010,
according to its filings.  Adjusting Terms  If an agreement can’t be reached on adjusting debt terms
and infusing more equity in the project, creditors could seek
control of the airport, which includes a 58,000-square-foot
terminal, the person said.  Jeff Bourk, executive director of the airport, and Peet
didn’t return calls and e-mails seeking comment. Goldman Sachs
spokeswoman Andrea Raphael declined to comment.    Salomon Smith Barney , as Citigroup’s investment bank was
known then, underwrote the revenue bonds in 2000 for the St.
Louis convention center hotel project, as the city made a push
to increase its draw as a conference destination.  The Renaissance, which features panoramic views of the city
from its Crystal Ballroom and has 54,750 square-feet of meeting
space, violated its bond covenants in 2004 after the convention
center generated half the bookings originally anticipated,
according to bond filings.  Nuveen sold about $55 million of the debt for 53 cents on
the dollar in December, Bloomberg data show. When Nuveen’s
municipal high-yield fund reported its stake in the St. Louis
revenue bonds in April 2007, it valued them at 99 cents on the
dollar.  Other Opportunities  The Chicago-based asset manager sold the debt to Citigroup
to pursue more attractive opportunities with the proceeds,
according to John Miller, chief investment officer of Nuveen
Asset Management.  With its controlling stake in the revenue bonds, Citigroup
may now direct the hotel’s trustee, UMB Bank N.A., to sell the
hotel, which was foreclosed on after failing to make full
interest payments on the debt in 2008, the people familiar with
the matter said. Hotel deals may increase as much as 25 percent
this year, as a rebound in U.S. business and leisure travel
attracts investors, according to Jones Lang LaSalle Hotels,
which has advised Renaissance bondholders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net ;
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 