-- Coal Mines, Ports Reopen in Australia as Cyclone Yasi Weakens to a Low
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2011-02-04T05:51:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/coal-mines-ports-reopen-in-australia-as-cyclone-yasi-weakens.html
Coal and metals mines, railroads and
ports are reopening in Queensland after suffering minimal damage
yesterday from Tropical Cyclone Yasi, the first Category 5 storm
to strike the Australian state since 1918.  Rio Tinto Group, the world’s third-largest mining company,
and  Xstrata Plc  are restarting coal operations in the Bowen
Basin, the companies said today in separate statements. The
state is recovering from its worst floods on record and Tropical
Cyclone Anthony that crossed the coast on Jan. 30.  “Our big worry is that the coalfields will get hit by
another major wet weather event,”  Michael Roche , chief
executive officer of the Queensland Resources Council, said
today in e-mailed comments. “Anthony and Yasi delivered some
rain to some mines but not anything like the levels they
experienced in December and January.”  Yasi was downgraded to a tropical low last night as it
weakened and moved inland, prompting Dalrymple Bay Coal Terminal
Pty to resume ship loading and track operator  QR National Ltd .
to reopen lines. Queensland is the world’s biggest supplier of
steelmaking coal and its northern region accounts for about a
third of Australia’s sugarcane production. Category 5 is the
highest level in the classification system.  More Cyclones?  “Weather conditions such as this will certainly hamper
efforts by the coal mining industry in Australia to recover from
the devastating floods of last month,” Deutsche Bank AG analysts
led by  Daniel Brebner  said yesterday in a report. “This will
probably keep both coking coal and thermal coal markets tight
for the balance of the quarter.”  Yasi will likely be followed by more cyclones as La Nina
boosts the number of tropical storms, according to the Bureau of
Meteorology. La Nina, characterized by a cooling of temperatures
in the tropical  Pacific Ocean , is generally associated with
above-normal winter, spring and summer rain in eastern and
northern  Australia .  Coking coal contract prices may rise as much as 78 percent
next quarter on disruptions from flooding in Australia,
according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Australian hard
prime spot coking coal sold for $330 a metric ton on average in
the week to Jan. 28 from $320 the week before, according to
Petersfield, England-based researcher HIS McCloskey.  “Prices have already rallied strongly, up nearly 50
percent to $324 a ton since the flooding began,” Citigroup Inc.
analysts led by Daniel Hynes said in a Feb. 2 report. “With the
monsoon season far from over and inventories at critical lows,
we believe we have yet to see the peak in prices.”  Sugarcane Cuts  Sugarcane plantations may lose 50 percent of production
potential, said grower’s group Canegrowers, which begins an
assessment of the crop damage today. Losses to the industry
could be at least A$500 million ($507 million), it said.  Xstrata, the world’s biggest exporter of power-station coal,
resumed operations at its Collinsville and Newlands mines,
spokesman  James Rickards  said today. There’s “no significant
production impact,” he said.  Rio Tinto  has restarted its Hail
Creek mine, the company said separately.  Rail networks that service about 38 percent of coal-port
capacity on Australia’s east coast reopened yesterday, according
to QR National. Four coal trains arrived at Darymple Bay since 3
a.m. this morning,  Greg Smith , general manager of operations at
the export terminal, said by phone.  Yasi’s intensity dissipated as it cut across the northern
reaches of Queensland after hitting the coast at Mission Beach,
a resort town of about 3,000 people situated 1,500 kilometers
(932 miles) north of Brisbane, the Bureau of Meteorology said.
The storm missed a direct strike on Cairns and Townsville, the
two largest cities in Queensland’s far north.  Xstrata also has begun restarting its Mount Isa copper and
zinc operations, the Zug, Switzerland-based company said in an
e-mailed statement today. There’s no structural damage and the
company is yet to review its Townsville port and refinery, it
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  