-- Cold Snap Causes Gas Shortages Across U.S. Southwest
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 2011-02-04T21:20:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/cold-snap-causes-gas-shortages-across-u-s-southwest.html
Natural-gas shortages shut down part
of  New Mexico ’s government and interrupted service to thousands
of customers in the U.S. Southwest after a cold snap boosted
demand and power blackouts disrupted fuel production and
transmission.  New Mexico Governor Susana Martinez, a Republican, declared
a state of emergency and closed non-essential government offices
today, according to a statement on her  website . At least 32,000
customers in New Mexico and 19,000 in  Arizona  were without gas
as a pipeline system serving the region limited flows.  There was a “significant increase” in demand for gas
amid prolonged sub-freezing weather,  El Paso Corp ., whose
pipeline system provides gas to customers in Texas, New Mexico,
Arizona and California, said in a statement today. Rolling  Texas 
power blackouts shut down gas-processing plants and freezing
water in well pipelines slowed supply, El Paso said.  Electric utilities across Texas instituted rolling
blackouts on Feb. 2 to conserve electricity after “extreme
cold” forced power plant shutdowns and pushed demand to a new
winter record, according to the state’s grid operator.  Houston temperatures fell 46 degrees on Feb. 1, to a low of
24 degrees Fahrenheit (-4 Celsius), according to weather service
records. The normal high temperature is 63, said Matt Moreland,
a National Weather Service meteorologist in Dickinson, Texas.
The temperature in Tucson, Arizona, dropped to a low of 18
degrees yesterday.  Utility Curtailments  New Mexico Gas had as many as 32,000 customers without
service, said Tom Domme, general counsel for the company, a unit
of closely held Continental Energy Systems LLC. About 19,000
people in the Tucson area also lost gas service, said Libby
Howell, a spokeswoman for Las-Vegas based  Southwest Gas Corp .    Sempra Energy , owner of San Diego Electric & Gas, today
lifted gas curtailments it put in place for certain commercial
and industrial customers after experiencing supply problems.  Gas supplies have increased and demand is down due to
rising temperatures, according to New Mexico Gas’s Domme.
 Companies may be taking more gas off pipelines than they are
supposed to, said Richard Wheatley, a spokesman for Houston-
based El Paso. The company yesterday declared force majeure on
its El Paso Natural Gas pipeline, limiting flows on the system.  “Normally we have enough gas in the pipeline system to
counteract that kind of situation, we can move gas around,” he
said. The company was pulling gas from a storage field near
Carlsbad, New Mexico. There is little gas storage available in
Arizona or  California , he said.  Pipeline Pressure  The problem wasn’t supply but pressure in the pipeline,
said Howell of Southwest Gas, which serves 277,000 customers in
Pima County, including Tucson.  “Our issue was, we did not receive the pressure we had
contracted,” Howell said. “There just wasn’t enough pressure
to pump the gas through the system.”  Texas accounts for about  a third  of U.S. gas production,
according to the Energy Information Administration. The El Paso
pipeline draws most of its gas from the Permian Basin and Waha
Hub in Texas and the San Juan Basin in New Mexico, Wheatley
said. The Permian Basin and Waha Hub were disrupted by the
electric blackouts.  The  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission , which oversees
interstate gas pipelines, is “monitoring the situation,” said
Tamara Young-Allen, a spokeswoman for the agency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  