-- U.S. Commercial Property Recovery Spares Economy Another Blow
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s   a n d   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2011-02-04T05:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/commercial-property-recovers-in-u-s-as-tsunami-of-distress-fails-to-hit.html
From  Manhattan  office towers to
apartments in  Florida  to retail properties in  Washington ,
commercial real estate values are rising, defying predictions of
a collapse that would drag the  U.S. economy  back into recession.  Prices of commercial properties sold by institutional
investors surged 19 percent in 2010, the second-biggest gain on
record, according to an index developed by the MIT Center for
Real Estate. Investments in office properties, the largest part
of the market, more than doubled last year to $41.6 billion,
according to  Real Capital Analytics Inc. , which tracks
commercial property sales globally.  Near record-low  interest rates  are luring buyers with the
prospect of cheaper financing and higher returns. Lenders are
beginning to sell distressed properties and loans as rising
earnings give them a cushion to absorb losses. Investors,
convinced the worst is over, have pushed prices on commercial
mortgage-backed bonds to the highest level in two years.  “Give a little credit to the strategy put forward by the
government: keeping interest rates low and giving lenders some
flexibility to hold these troubled assets on their books for a
while,”  Dan Fasulo , managing director at New York-based Real
Capital, said in a telephone interview. “Now that values are on
the upswing, it’s given owners and lenders more wiggle room to
work out these troubled situations.”  Commercial real estate transactions may climb 40 percent to
$135 billion this year, Chicago-based  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc .,
the second-largest publicly traded broker, said on Feb. 2. U.S.
commercial real estate values, which fell 45 percent from the
October 2007 peak to the trough in August 2010, have risen three
consecutive months, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  Vornado’s Mall Deal  Those taking advantage of improving conditions include
Vornado Realty Trust, which in December paid $115 million for
the $171.5 million loan on its Springfield Mall in the Virginia
suburbs of Washington, resolving a standoff with its lender. The
loan had been transferred to a special servicer a year earlier
because the New York-based real estate investment trust was in
danger of “imminent default,” according to  Fitch Ratings .  In downtown Fort Lauderdale, Florida, a market damaged by
declining home values, USAA Real Estate Co. bought Las Olas
Centre, a 469,000-square-foot (43,600-square-meter) office
complex that had been seized by lender  Wells Fargo & Co . USAA
Real Estate, based in San Antonio,  Texas , paid $170 million in
September; the previous owner spent $231 million near the top of
the market in July 2007, according to Real Capital.  Delinquencies Slow  Last February, a Congressional watchdog panel said a
deteriorating commercial real estate market had the potential to
wreck the U.S. economy. The Congressional Oversight Panel of the
Troubled Asset Relief Program said in a report that almost half
of the $1.4 trillion in commercial property loans set to be paid
off by 2014 were underwater, meaning the borrower owed more than
the property was worth.  Unless refinanced, the debt “could threaten America’s
already weakened financial system,” the report said.  While late payments on commercial mortgages bundled and
sold as bonds increased to 8.79 percent in December from 4.9
percent a year earlier, the pace of growth in delinquencies is
slowing, according to Moody’s. In 2011, the delinquency rate
will climb less than in the past two years, the ratings firm
said in a Jan. 12 report.  “That tsunami of distress that had been forecast has not
really materialized,” said Brian Stoffers, co-president, CBRE
Capital Markets, a financing and investment sales division of
Los Angeles-based broker  CB Richard Ellis Group Inc . “The
market’s getting stronger.”  Fundamental Improvement  As lenders renegotiate some loans and sell others, the
danger of defaults triggering another recession has eased, said  Susan Wachter , a finance professor at the University of
Pennsylvania’s Wharton School in Philadelphia.  “Balance sheets are firming up, interest rates still are
near historic lows and the fundamentals of commercial real
estate are improving,” Wachter said.  An expanding economy is helping boost the confidence of
real estate investors. U.S. gross domestic product advanced at a
3.2 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter, the Commerce
Department said Jan. 28. The U.S. office-market vacancy rate
will fall to 17 percent in 2011 from 17.8 percent in the fourth
quarter as employers add jobs and few new buildings are
completed, according to an estimate by  Grubb & Ellis Co ., a
Santa Ana, California-based broker.  A resurgent debt-securitization market is also driving the
recovery. Commercial mortgage-backed securities issuance in the
U.S. rose to $10.9 billion in 2010 compared with $2.1 billion in
2009, according to a Jones Lang report on Feb. 2. Issuance is
estimated to be over $40 billion in 2011, “providing added
liquidity to owners with maturing loans to refinance,” the
report said.  Hot Cities  The biggest metropolitan areas, notably New York,
Washington and Boston, are leading the recovery as employment
growth and large inventories of well-leased, income-producing
properties attract investors.  New York  commercial property
prices rose 16 percent in the fourth quarter from a year
earlier, while Washington gained 20 percent, according to the
National Council of Real Estate Investment Fiduciaries, a
Chicago-based trade group.  In the office market, prices in the top 10 cities jumped 30
percent in the third quarter, according to CoStar Group, a
Washington-based provider of real estate data. Nationally,
prices fell 7 percent.  Market segments including hotels, apartments and retail are
also on the rise.  Hotels were hit hard by the recession, as businesses and
consumers cut back on travel. A rebound started last year, with
the average occupancy rate in the top 25 U.S. markets rising to
64 percent from 60 percent in 2009, according to  Smith Travel
Research Inc.  of Hendersonville,  Tennessee .  Blackstone’s View  The upswing is boosting hotel sales in the Americas, which
are expected to jump as much as 25 percent this year, Jones Lang
LaSalle’s hotel investment-services unit said on Jan. 4. As
property values rise, lenders are reworking existing loans and
making new ones, according to Christopher Jordan, head of
hospitality banking at San Francisco-based Wells Fargo.  “Hotels represent a very attractive investment opportunity
because they’ve seen such a sharp decline,” Jonathan Gray,
senior managing director and co-head of real estate at New York-
based  Blackstone Group LP , said during a conference on Nov. 18.
“We’ve been deploying a lot of capital in this area.”  Hotels have an advantage that other types of commercial
real estate lack, said  Morgans Hotel Group Co . President Marc Gordon. They can boost room rates quickly to take advantage of
economic growth, while tenants at offices and retail properties
tend to sign multiyear leases.  Rent Appeal  Sales of apartment buildings nationwide rose in the fourth
quarter as home ownership remained at a 10-year low and demand
for rentals pushed lease rates to the highest in four years,
according to Axiometrics Inc., a Dallas-based research company.  Apartment rents climbed 4.31 percent in the last three
months of 2010, the most since the third quarter of 2006,
according to Axiometrics.  The firm projects a 5.85 percent
increase in U.S. rental revenue in the next 12 months.  The volume of apartment sales nationwide climbed 96 percent
to $33.7 billion in 2010 over a year earlier, according to Real
Capital. December’s dollar volume of $6.1 billion in sales was
the highest monthly total since October 2007, when Tishman
Speyer Properties LP and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. completed
the purchase of Archstone-Smith Trust, which at the time was the
largest apartment real estate investment trust by value.  Retail Sales  The retail segment of the market is improving, though at a
slower rate than offices or apartments. Transactions rose 51
percent to $22.6 billion last year, according to Real Capital.
In the fourth quarter, deal value averaged $168 a square foot,
up 30 percent from a year earlier.  Consumer spending rose more than forecast in December.
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. chief U.S. economist Joseph LaVorgna projected “continued healthy spending in 2011,”
citing a “tame” inflation trend.  Of the $52 billion of retail properties to fall into
default, just over half have completed workouts, “giving the
retail sector the distinction as the first property type to pass
the halfway point in resolving its distress,” Real Capital
analysts wrote in a January report.  A continued improvement in the market will help banks sell
off additional bad loans.  Below the Peak  The recovery isn’t complete. The MIT Real Estate Center
transaction index is 28 percent from its June 2007 peak. On an
accumulated total return basis, which includes net income
generated by the properties, the index is 16 percent below the
high, the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based center said in a Feb. 2
statement.  Markets hit hard by the housing bust are struggling and are
less likely to recover quickly, PriceWaterhouseCoopers LLP said
in its annual Emerging Trends in Real Estate survey in October.
Las Vegas, Milwaukee, St. Louis, Detroit and Cleveland are among
the cities that scored the lowest in its poll of investors.  “Many secondary cities and most tertiary markets just do
not appear on investor radar screens,” the study said.  James S. Corl, managing director of real estate investments
at New York-based private-equity firm Siguler Guff & Co., said
investors are crowding into the best-performing cities,
betraying a lack of confidence in the broader market.  “What’s really going on right now is a classic risk
aversion,” he said in an interview. “Most people allocating
money to commercial real estate are going after core deals” and
“paying up for existing leases.”  Corl said this conservative approach means investors
passing up the opportunity to make bigger returns. “Risk is
very attractively priced,” he said.  Working Down Debt  Banks reduced the amount of soured real estate debt last
year primarily through sales of loans, according to Matthew Anderson, managing director at Foresight Analytics, an Oakland,
California-based research firm. The amount of nonperforming
commercial real estate mortgages and construction loans at banks
peaked in the first quarter of 2010 at $126.2 billion. By
September, the amount was $115.7 billion, said Anderson.  “There’s still a large volume of nonperforming loans out
there that still need to be dealt with,” said Anderson, who
expects further declines. He is scheduled to testify today
before the TARP oversight panel that raised concerned about
defaults last year.  Large Numbers  Some of the deleveraging is occurring at places such as
 Auction.com  in Irvine,  California . The company auctioned $2.2
billion of notes in 2010, fetching 56 percent of face value, and
it expects that to at least double this year.  “The numbers are so large,” said Kenneth Rivkin,
Auction.com managing director, who described his company as an
“EBay for properties.” “With real estate values down 40
percent nationally, there has to be hundreds and hundreds of
billions” of distressed mortgages and properties poised to be
sold. “If somebody has a good platform that has proven itself,
their business should be up significantly.”  Carlton Group, a New York-based real estate investment bank
that runs the Carlton Exchange listing service, closed loans
with a principal balance of more than $2 billion last year, and
expects to do $7 billion to $8 billion this year, said Howard Michaels, the firm’s chairman.  Prices for the most sought-after properties in Washington
and New York are approaching peak levels. Capitalization rates
are falling as prices rise. The cap rate, a measure of
investment yield, is calculated by dividing net operating income
by purchase price.  Manhattan’s average cap rate on offices was 5.5 percent at
the end of 2010, compared with 6.2 percent for central business
districts nationwide, according to Real Capital.  Seattle,  Chicago   As yields on properties in those markets tumble, investors
are looking to other markets for higher returns.  Seattle, the San Francisco Bay area, suburban New York and
Washington, and parts of Chicago and Atlanta will be among the
next markets that see rising prices, according to Lee Menifee,
senior director of global strategy at CB Richard Ellis Investors
in  Los Angeles . The affiliate of CB Richard Ellis has $36
billion in assets under management.  “They’re getting interest both from lenders and
investors,” Menifee said of these areas. “The confluence of
those two things would suggest that there’s going to be a run-up
in prices for high-quality assets in those next-tier markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net ;
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 