-- ConocoPhillips Said to Shut Borger Catalytic Cracker
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2011-02-04T20:56:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/conocophillips-said-to-shut-catalytic-cracker-at-borger-texas.html
  ConocoPhillips  shut a fluid catalytic
cracker at the Borger refinery in the Texas Panhandle, reducing
output, because of weather-related issues, according to two
people familiar with refinery operations.  The production rate for the refinery is about 100,000
barrels a day, said the people, who declined to be identified
because they are not authorized to speak for ConocoPhillips. The
refinery, about 50 miles northeast of Amarillo, can process
146,000 barrels of crude a day, according to the Houston-based
company’s  website .  Rich Johnson, a spokesman for the company in Houston, said,
“I don’t have any information I can share since we typically do
not comment on day-to-day refinery operations.”  The Borger refinery has been running at reduced rates since
at least Feb. 1, said the people. Borger is the among the  Texas 
refineries to reduce rates because of the cold weather.  Alon USA Energy Inc. cut rates at its Big Spring refinery
in Texas to between 50,000 and 55,000 barrels a day from 70,000
barrels, Joseph  Israel , the company’s chief operating officer,
said in an e-mail Feb. 2. The refinery is located about 300
miles west of Dallas.    Valero Energy Corp . reduced rates yesterday at its 170,000-
barrel-a-day McKee refinery in Texas after issues with crude
supply from a pipeline,  Bill Day , a company spokesman, said.  The McKee rates were cut after a crude oil pipeline
supplying the refinery was subject to rolling power blackouts
because of subfreezing temperatures, Day said.  “The issue is with crude coming in,” he said today. “The
weather is supposed to improve today so we expect that full
crude supply will be restored to the refinery soon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J. Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net ;  Aaron Clark  in New York at 
 aclark27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  