-- Copper May Decline on Absence of Chinese Demand, Survey Shows
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2011-02-04T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/copper-prices-fall-from-record-as-dollar-strengthens-china-demand-cools.html
Copper may fall on the absence of
demand from  China , where markets are closed for a weeklong
holiday, and on concern about substitution spurred by the
metal’s rally to $10,000 a metric ton, a survey showed.  Thirteen of 18 analysts, investors and traders surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 72 percent, said the metal will drop next week.
Four predicted higher prices and one forecast little change.
Copper for delivery in three months was up 4.3 percent for this
week at $9,940 a ton at 3 p.m. yesterday on the  London  Metal
Exchange.  “Without China around, I feel there may be a pullback,”
said  William Adams , an analyst at Basemetals.com in London.
“Having reached $10,000, I would expect the market to focus on
demand destruction and substitution again.”  Markets in mainland China closed as of Feb. 2 for the Lunar
New Year holiday and will remain shut through Feb. 8. Copper
yesterday touched $10,000 a ton for the first time on the LME.  China’s return to the market and the pace of copper imports
into the country will be “key” for the metal, while sustained
higher prices may “dampen enthusiasm for restocking,”  Barclays
Capital  said in a report yesterday.  The red bars on the attached chart are derived by
subtracting bearish forecasts from bullish estimates, with
readings below zero signaling the majority of respondents expect
a decline. The green line shows the copper price. The survey
data shown are as of Jan. 28.  The weekly copper survey has forecast prices accurately in
57 of the past 122 weeks, or 47 percent of the time.  This week’s survey results: Bearish: 13 Bullish: 4 Hold: 1  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 