-- Super Bowl Stadium Ice Fall Injures 6, Two Critically
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e   a n d   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2011-02-04T22:02:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/cowboys-stadium-ice-slides-from-roof-six-workers-injured-two-critically.html
Six National Football League workers
preparing for the  Super Bowl  were injured, two critically, when
melting ice and snow slid from the curved roof of Cowboys
Stadium in Arlington,  Texas , Lieutenant Pedro Arevalo of the
Arlington Fire Department said.  The two men who were critically injured were taken to
nearby hospitals after the accident, which happened about 1:15
p.m. local time, Arevalo said. The workers, including at least
one female, were setting up for the NFL’s championship game on
Feb. 6, he said.  The roof rises to a maximum height of 292 feet, according
to the website for Omaha, Nebraska-based L&M Construction
Chemicals Inc., which helped develop the stadium.  “When the ice falls at such a high altitude, it catches
wind and it can go roughly 60 to 70 feet away from the
stadium,” Arevalo said. “It was on the northeast side of the
stadium, where it slopes down.”  All stadium entrances have been closed except for the truck
tunnel, which is away from the building by a very safe distance,
Brian McCarthy, a spokesman for the NFL, said in an e-mail.  “All workers and visitors will now enter and exit through
the tunnel until further notice,” McCarthy said.  The fenced-off perimeter will remain “until the ice is all
gone” or until it’s police and fire officials say it’s safe to
enter again, Arevalo said.  The $1.2 billion stadium, which opened last season, will
host the NFL title game between the Green Bay Packers and
Pittsburgh Steelers.  The Dallas  Fort Worth  area received 2 to 6 inches of snow
today on top of sleet and ice earlier in the week.  “The snow on the ground will hang around for the
weekend,” said Amber Elliott, a meteorologist with the  National
Weather Service  in Fort Worth. “I hate to say most of it. At
least half of it.”  The weather service forecast clear skies tomorrow and Feb.
6 with highs in the 40s Fahrenheit (4 Celsius), according to its
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Dallas at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kuriloff in Dallas at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  