-- Oil Falls as U.S. Adds Fewer Jobs Than Forecast, Fuel Use Drops
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2011-02-04T21:01:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/crude-oil-increases-on-decline-in-u-s-unemployment-rate-unrest-in-egypt.html
Crude fell after a government report
showed that the U.S. added fewer jobs in January than economists
forecast, bolstering concern that fuel demand will slip in the
world’s biggest oil-consuming country.  Futures dropped 1.7 percent after the Labor Department said
employers increased payrolls by 36,000 last month. The number of
workers was projected to climb by 146,000, according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. Gasoline stockpiles
rose to the highest level in almost 18 years as demand
decreased, according to an Energy Department report on Feb. 2.  “The fuel markets are weighing on crude,” said  Tim Evans ,
an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New York.
“Today’s jobless numbers showed many fewer people got jobs than
expected and that many others have simply given up looking for
work, which raises concerns about U.S. consumer demand. We
already are looking at weak demand and very high stockpiles.”  Crude oil for March delivery declined $1.51 to settle at
$89.03 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices are
down 0.3 percent this week and have increased 22 percent over
the past year.  Gasoline futures for March delivery tumbled 6.81 cents, or
2.7 percent, to end the session at $2.4353 a gallon in New York.  The  unemployment rate  dropped to 9 percent in January from
9.4 percent the previous month. The so-called underemployment
rate, which includes part-time workers who’d prefer a full-time
position and people who want work but have given up looking,
decreased to 16.1 percent from 16.7 percent.  ‘Poor Number’  “Once you get past the initial headline, the jobs report
isn’t very good,” said  Kyle Cooper , director of research for
IAF Advisors in Houston. “A 9 percent unemployment rate is
definitely better than 10 percent, but historically it’s a poor
number. This shows that things still aren’t that great.”  The U.S. needs to see faster job growth for a sufficient
period of time before policy makers can be assured the economic
recovery has taken hold, Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday in a speech at the  National Press Club 
in Washington.  Supplies of gasoline rose 6.15 million barrels to 236.2
million last week, the highest level since March 1993, the
Energy Department report showed. It was the biggest gain since
January 2009. Inventories have climbed in 10 of the past 11
weeks.  Total fuel demand decreased 0.3 percent to 18.8 million
barrels a day last week, the lowest level since November, the
department said. Gasoline consumption fell 1 percent to 8.55
million barrels a day, the lowest amount since the week ended
Feb. 12, 2010.  Egyptian Protest  Futures gained as much as 1.3 percent earlier today as
Egyptians poured out of Friday prayer services and into Cairo’s
Tahrir Square in the tens of thousands as yesterday’s fighting
gave way to a peaceful mass protest.  Other Arab countries gripped by instability include  Yemen ,
where police used tear gas against protesters yesterday, and
Jordan, which sacked its government this week. Algeria’s
President Abdelaziz Bouteflika said yesterday that a 19-year-old
state of emergency will be lifted “in the very near future.”
The protests began in  Tunisia , where President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali was forced from office last month.  About 2.5 percent of global oil output moves through  Egypt 
via the Suez Canal and the Suez-Mediterranean Pipeline,
according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. The waterway is open and
operating normally today, Ahmed El Manakhly, head of traffic for
the  Suez Canal  Authority, said by phone.  Egypt’s Revenue  “A significant part of Egypt’s revenue comes from the Suez
Canal and tourism,” said  Adam Sieminski , chief energy economist
at Deutsche Bank in  Washington . “Since tourism will be hurt for
a while because of the unrest, whoever is in control will
definitely want to keep both the Suez Canal and the SuMed
pipeline running smoothly.”  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries should
only meet if the Suez Canal closes, Venezuelan Energy Minister  Rafael Ramirez  told reporters today in Caracas. Oil is rising to
a “fair price,” he said. OPEC ministers are next scheduled to
gather in June at the group’s Vienna headquarters.    Brent crude  for March settlement fell $1.93, or 1.9
percent, to end the session at $99.83 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The contract touched $103.37
yesterday, the highest intraday level since Sept. 26, 2008.  Oil volume on the Nymex was 699,437 contracts as of 3:27
p.m. in electronic trading in  New York . Volume totaled 682,075
contracts yesterday, 3.4 percent lower than the average of the
past three months. Open interest was 1.56 million contracts, the
highest level since Sept. 12, 2007.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 