-- Deutsche Telekom Said to Be Nearer to Clearwire Deal
-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2011-02-04T21:09:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/deutsche-telekom-is-said-to-be-nearing-clearwire-deal-on-spectrum-purchase.html
  Deutsche Telekom AG ’s  T-Mobile USA 
unit may be close to a deal to buy wireless spectrum from  Clearwire Corp ., two people familiar with the talks said.  T-Mobile USA is the only potential bidder and the sale of
the spectrum could happen by the end of the first quarter, one
of the people said, speaking on condition of anonymity because
the talks are private. T-Mobile USA isn’t in a rush to buy
spectrum and can demand a financially advantageous deal, which
may happen in the near term, another person said.  T-Mobile, the fourth-largest mobile-phone operator in the
U.S. after Verizon Wireless,  AT&T Inc . and  Sprint Nextel Corp .,
accounts for about a quarter of the German company’s sales and
has seen profit slide as it trailed rivals in building out a
third-generation mobile network and missed out on being able to
sell Apple Inc.’s iPhone. The company may fund the spectrum
purchase with proceeds from the sale of its U.S.
telecommunications towers, valued at $2 billion by analysts.  Clearwire has warned investors it’s short on cash, saying
it would run out by mid-year ahead of a bond sale. In December,
the company said it raised $1.325 billion in bonds and
exchangeable notes. Its biggest investor, Sprint, which owns
more than half of its shares, declined to participate in the
bond offering.  “We continue to seek additional funding,” from sources
including a spectrum sale, said Clearwire spokesman Mike DiGioia. He declined to comment on any discussions with T-
Mobile. Deutsche Telekom spokesman Michael Lange declined to
comment.  Shares Rise  Clearwire rose 56 cents, or 11 percent, to $5.84 in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading at 4 p.m. in  New York . Deutsche Telekom
advanced 1.1 percent to close at 10.07 euros in Frankfurt.  The cost to protect Sprint’s debt from default fell by the
most in two months. Credit-default swaps on the company’s debt
slid 16.7 basis points to 357.9 basis points, according to data
provider CMA. The contracts are down from 543.6 last February.  Credit swaps, which typically fall as investor confidence
improves and rise as it deteriorates, pay the buyer face value
if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of
the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Various Options  Clearwire has been building out a high-speed, fourth-
generation network and reselling the service to partners,
including Sprint. Competitors with more cash are catching up,
heightening competition with Kirkland, Washington-based
Clearwire.  Verizon Wireless , the largest U.S. wireless carrier,
began selling 4G service to customers in some markets last year.  Clearwire’s spectrum auction, which was to accept bids
through the end of January, was extended with Deutsche Telekom
remaining the sole potential bidder, one of the people said.  The German company’s chief executive officer, Rene Obermann, and the head of the U.S. unit, Philipp Humm, said one
of the challenges the company faces is obtaining spectrum to
build the next-generation network using long-term evolution
technology, or LTE.  “Deutsche Telekom is exploring various options to acquire
additional spectrum and reduce the gap regarding economies of
scale compared with its larger competitors, including partnering
with other companies,” the Bonn-based company said in a Jan. 20
 statement .  Humm said at the time that the existing network is adequate
to meet demand, and that there are no imminent announcements on
spectrum purchase. Building out an LTE network may cost between
$1 billion and $2 billion, the company said. Chief Technology
Officer Neville Ray said that T-Mobile will need a spectrum
partner by 2014 or 2015.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Ragnhild Kjetland in  Frankfurt  at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  