-- Dollar Rises Versus Euro as Report Says Winter Storms Depressed Payrolls
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2011-02-04T13:57:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/dollar-rises-versus-euro-as-report-says-winter-storms-depressed-payrolls.html
The dollar advanced versus the euro
and headed for a weekly gain as the U.S. Labor Department
said winter storms capped a growth in payrolls and the
unemployment rate fell to 9 percent.  “The government wanted to send a strong message that it
was because of the weather that nonfarm payrolls are so weak,”
said  Kathy Lien , director of currency research at the online
currency trader GFT Forex in  New York . “That’s why you saw
the dollar recover.”  The greenback tumbled 2.3 percent versus the euro in
January as the  Federal Reserve  maintained plans to buy
$600 billion of Treasuries through June, indicating the
accelerating recovery still needs stimulus to produce a bigger
drop in unemployment.  The dollar appreciated 0.4 percent to $1.3579 per euro at
8:54 a.m. in New York, from $1.3634 yesterday. The U.S. currency
was little changed at 81.66 yen, from 81.63. The euro dropped
0.2 percent to 111.04 yen, from 111.29.  Nonfarm payrolls increased by 36,000 in January after a
revised advance of 121,000 in the previous month, the Labor
Department reported today. The median forecast of 85 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey was for a gain of 146,000. The  unemployment rate  dropped from 9.4 percent.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners including the euro and yen, rose 0.3 percent to 77.963.  ADP Jobs Report  Companies added 187,000 jobs last month after a revised
247,000 gain in December that was less than initially estimated,
according to figures from ADP Employer Services. The median
forecast in the Bloomberg News survey was for a gain of 140,000.  The Dollar Index rose 0.3 percent on Jan. 7, capping five
days of gains, after the Labor Department reported payrolls rose
for a third straight month. The gauge of the greenback fell to
the lowest level in almost two weeks on Dec. 3, when the
government said the economy gained fewer jobs than forecast.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday in a speech in  Washington  that the U.S. needs to see faster job growth for a
sufficient time before policy makers can be assured the economic
recovery has taken hold.  While Bernanke said economic growth will pick up this year
and the Fed’s purchases of Treasuries are “providing
significant support to  job creation  and the economy,” he gave
no indication whether he’ll maintain or adjust monetary stimulus
after the Fed finishes the asset buying in June.  January Fed Meeting  Bernanke’s comments were his first since policy makers
agreed at a Jan. 25-26 meeting to press forward with their
bond-buying plan. The Fed has held the target lending rate at
zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  The  Institute for Supply Management  reported yesterday that
its index of U.S. non-manufacturing businesses, which covers
about 90 percent of the economy, rose in January to 59.4, the
highest level since August 2005, from December’s 57.1. Readings
above 50 signal expansion.  The euro fell 1.3 percent yesterday, the most since
November, as European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
said inflation has been prompted “mainly” by rising energy and
commodity costs, dimming prospects for a boost in the target
lending rate from a record low 1 percent.  Trichet said on Jan. 13 that the ECB will raise borrowing
costs if needed to contain the annual inflation rate, which has
accelerated to 2.4 percent, the fastest in more than two years.  Sovereign-Debt Crisis  The euro was poised for a second weekly decline versus the
yen before European Union leaders meet in Brussels to try to
narrow differences on ending the region’s financial crisis.  Germany and  France  are at odds over possible bond buybacks
and a “competitiveness pact,” which is German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s condition for strengthening the safety net for debt-
strapped countries.  “Until those steps are officially announced, the market
remains in a state of limbo,” said  Lee Hardman , a
foreign-exchange strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.
in  London . “I still think the sovereign-debt problem remains
elevated in the euro zone, which remains a weight on the euro.
The stage could now be set for a modest dollar rebound.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead8@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  