-- ECB's Nowotny Lets `Cat Out of Bag' With 1.8% Inflation Forecast For 2012
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 2011-02-04T12:36:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/ecb-s-nowotny-lets-cat-out-of-bag-with-2012-inflation-forecast-of-1-8-.html
European Central Bank council member
Ewald Nowotny may have explained why President  Jean-Claude Trichet  has pushed back expectations for higher interest rates
-- by revealing the bank’s latest inflation forecast for 2012.  “The ECB anticipates 1.8 percent inflation” next year,
Nowotny said in an interview with  Austria ’s Der Standard
newspaper published late yesterday.   The Austrian central bank, which Nowotny heads, confirmed 
the remark. It later issued a statement saying the forecast is 
its own internal estimate and not from the ECB. A spokesman for 
the Frankfurt-based ECB, which isn’t due to publish new 
projections for another month, declined to comment.  While a forecast of 1.8 percent would represent an upward
revision from the ECB’s December prediction of 1.5 percent for
2012, it would also show the central bank still expects
inflation to fall back below its 2 percent limit over its
policy-relevant time horizon. That would reduce pressure on the
ECB to increase interest rates.  “Nowotny has let the cat out of the bag,” said  Carsten Brzeski , senior economist at ING Group in Brussels, who doesn’t
expect the ECB to raise rates until the fourth quarter. “His
remarks show that in the eyes of the ECB, markets got carried
away by the idea of a looming rate hike.”  Measured Tone  Nowotny made the remarks after the ECB’s policy meeting
yesterday, at which officials left the bank’s benchmark rate at
a record low of 1 percent. During the following press
conference, Trichet surprised markets with a more measured tone
on inflation, even though he said it will remain above 2 percent
for most of this year. It rose to 2.4 percent in January.  With Europe still struggling to contain its sovereign debt
crisis, the ECB is trying to temper rate-increase expectations.
They were boosted last month when Trichet emphasized inflation
risks, causing a five-cent surge in the euro.  The currency fell almost two cents against the dollar
yesterday as investors pared expectations for higher rates. It
traded at $1.3628 at 1:35 p.m. in  Frankfurt .  ECB Vice President  Vitor Constancio  said today he’s
“satisfied” with market reaction to the bank’s policy
statements. He declined to comment on the ECB’s new forecasts,
saying they will be published next month.  Central Bank Statement  “The inflation rate of 1.8 percent for 2012 mentioned by
Governor Nowotny is an internal, technical revision of the
expected inflation rate for the euro zone by the Austrian
National Bank,” the central bank said in a statement today.
“It is in no way a forecast of the ECB.”  While the ECB has signaled increased concern about price
pressures, Trichet stressed yesterday that the bank aims to keep
inflation just under 2 percent on average in the long run.  “What counts is not immediate inflation, but inflation
over the medium term,” Trichet said. “We might have a hump
from time to time, we might have also very low levels of
inflation. What counts is that we deliver in the medium term
close to 2 percent but below 2 percent.”  Trichet declined to comment yesterday when asked about the
ECB’s new forecasts.  Nowotny, 66, has a track record of speaking bluntly for a
central banker. Last month he told journalists that the ECB
wouldn’t take any decisions on  interest rates  in the first half
of this year.  Nowotny’s Comments  In yesterday’s interview, he was asked why the ECB didn’t
raise borrowing costs given the acceleration in inflation.  “The ECB expects that inflation will remain above 2
percent for some months, but that it will drop in the second
half of the year,” Nowotny said. “For 2012, we anticipate a
decline.”  Inflation of 1.8 percent in 2012 wouldn’t rule out a rate
increase this year. The ECB is concerned that the jump in
consumer prices, due largely to soaring energy and food costs,
will prompt workers to demand compensation in the form of higher
wages, known as second-round effects. That would in turn fuel
inflation by increasing household purchasing power.  Chemical workers in  Germany ,  Europe ’s largest economy, are
seeking up to 7 percent more pay, and the country’s  IG Metall 
union has asked for a 6 percent increase for workers at
companies including Volkswagen AG.  “It is for us absolutely essential that there are no
second-round effects,” Trichet said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Frankfurt at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Vits in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  