-- Egypt Likely Topic as Hillary Clinton Flies to Munich Security Conference
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2011-02-04T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/egypt-likely-topic-as-hillary-clinton-flies-to-munich-security-conference.html
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton
flies to  Germany  today for meetings with world security leaders
that are likely to be dominated by the upheaval in Egypt.  Clinton’s agenda at the 47th Munich Security Conference
also will include an exchange of documents with Russian Foreign
Minister Sergey Lavrov that will put into force a nuclear
weapons treaty between their countries.  Clinton has meetings planned with UK Prime Minister David Cameron, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and Afghan President
Hamid Karzai, according to the State Department.  On Egypt, the Obama administration has been pressing
President Hosni Mubarak to immediately begin a transition to a
new government. Mubarak yesterday refused, telling ABC News in
an interview that it would lead to chaos.  Merkel, Cameron, French President Nicolas Sarkozy, along
with the premiers of Italy and  Spain , called upon Mubarak to
step down and facilitate a “quick and orderly transition to a
broad-based government” on Feb. 3.  State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said that
George Mitchell, the U.S. Special Envoy to the Middle East, will
attend the conference. There will be a meeting of the so-called
Quartet -- the U.S., European Union,  United Nations  and  Russia .
“I’m not anticipating any meetings with Israelis or
Palestinians,” Crowley said.  On Feb. 5, the Secretary and Lavrov will exchange
instruments of ratification for the new Strategic Arms Reduction
Treaty, a major priority for President Barack Obama. Once this
exchange occurs, the New START Treaty will enter into force.  The new START Treaty limits each side’s strategic warheads
to no more than 1,550, from 2,200 allowed previously, and sets a
maximum of 800 land-, air- and sea-based launchers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  