-- Egypt Turmoil May Offer Swaps Reward on Contagion, Citi Says
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2011-02-04T10:55:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/egypt-turmoil-may-offer-swaps-reward-on-contagion-citi-says.html
  Egypt ’s political turmoil may
undermine confidence in the region, rewarding investors holding
default insurance on a basket of Middle Eastern bonds while
selling protection on Egyptian debt, according to Citigroup Inc.  Investors will profit if credit-default swaps on one or
more of five countries in the so-called first-to-default basket
widens, said Michael Hampden-Turner, a strategist at Citigroup
in  London . First-to-default trades pay investors for the risk
that any one of the group defaults.  The cost of insuring Egyptian debt has surged 30 percent
since the start of protests to oust President  Hosni Mubarak ,
inspired by a revolution in  Tunisia . Contracts linked to
Bahrain, Abu Dhabi, Morocco,  Israel  and Egypt may increase
because of the unrest, Hampden-Turner said.  “Fundamental popular questions about democracy and the
relationship with the West might have implications in local
areas,” Hampden-Turner wrote in a note to investors. “We
propose a trade that will work if one or several sovereign CDS
spreads in the region also widen relative to Egypt.”  Investors should buy insurance on $10 million of debt in
the basket and sell protection on an equivalent amount of
Egyptian debt, Hampden-Turner said. If swaps on Egypt rise
near to default levels, the change in market value of the basket
will match the other side of the trade. A decline in Egyptian
swaps may also yield a profit, as the market value of protection
sold outperforms the basket, he said.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. An increase
signals deterioration in perceptions of  credit quality .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  