-- Egypt Riots Add Pressure on OPEC With $100 Oil: Energy Markets
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2011-02-04T17:21:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/egyptian-riots-add-pressure-on-opec-as-crude-exceeds-100-energy-markets.html
OPEC is under pressure from consumers
to boost supply as most of the world’s benchmark crudes surpass
$100 a barrel amid political unrest in North Africa and the
Middle East.  Oil prices are high enough to “derail” the global
economic recovery,  Fatih Birol  of the  International Energy
Agency  said this week. Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi
said last week prices nearer $75 would be “appropriate.”
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. says the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries has already raised output.  “OPEC needs to put in more barrels this year, given how
strong demand has been,” said Amrita Sen, a commodity analyst
at  Barclays Capital  in London. “Above $100 there would be a bit
more urgency to increase their volumes, because at the end of
the day what they want is more stability.”  Riots in Egypt that have led to concern of disruption to
shipments through the  Suez Canal  sent North Sea Brent above $100
a barrel for the first time since October 2008 this week. Six of
the world’s 10 most-used oil price markers, including Nigeria’s
Bonny Light,  Malaysia ’s Tapis,  Indonesia ’s Minas and  Louisiana ’s
Heavy Sweet and Light Sweet grades, have breached three digits,
stoking speculation governments will struggle to contain
inflation as economies recover from the recession.  ‘Calm the Market’  “Naimi has announced they’re thinking of production
increases; there will be some production increases,” Christof Ruehl, chief economist at BP Plc, Europe’s second-biggest
company, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television on Feb.
2. “If markets are getting very worried about the political
situation in the Middle East that could even foster production
increases by OPEC to calm the market down.”  The world’s energy bill as a share of the economy will
return to the 9 percent level of the 1980s, when oil costs
tipped consuming nations into a recession, should crude advance
to $115 a barrel this year, Bank of America Merrill Lynch said
in a Jan. 25 research report.  Twelve European nations, recuperating from last year’s
sovereign debt crisis, already face record gasoline prices,
including taxes, European Commission data on Bloomberg shows.    Brent crude  dropped $1.90 to $99.86 a barrel on the
ICE Futures  Europe  exchange in London as of 5:19 p.m. local
time. It reached $103.37 during yesterday’s trade, the highest
level in 28 months. West Texas Intermediate fell as much as
2.3 percent to $88.45 on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  after
a U.S. government report showed that the economy added fewer
jobs in January than economists forecast.  Derail Economy  “Just before the turmoil in Egypt we already had very high
prices as a result of strong demand growth expectations for the
next year,” Birol, the chief economist of the Paris-based IEA,
which has advised energy-consuming nations since 1974, said in a
Feb. 2 interview with Bloomberg Television. “The turmoil in
Egypt has been a trigger. Brent over $100 is a risk to derail
the economic recovery.”  The Suez Canal and the adjacent Suez-Mediterranean Pipeline
have remained open throughout the Egyptian unrest, carrying
about 2 million barrels a day, or 2.5 percent of world oil
production, according to Goldman Sachs. Even before the unrest
the links weren’t operating at full capacity which is about
double this amount.  A halt of 1 million barrels a day or more would trigger a
response from OPEC, according to the group’s Secretary-General
Abdalla El-Badri. “If we see a real shortage we will have to
act,” he told reporters in  London  on Jan. 31. “But I don’t
think this will happen.”  The 11 OPEC members subject to production quotas pumped
26.85 million barrels a day last month, the most since it
announced supply cuts in late 2008. The group accounts for 40
percent of global supply.  Curbing Rally    Saudi Arabia , the largest member, may already be seeking to
curb the oil rally. State-run Saudi Aramco on Feb. 2 cut prices
for its March crude sales to  Asia , its biggest market, contrary
to the expectations of five refiners surveyed the previous day
by Bloomberg News.  OPEC is due to meet on June 2 to review its daily quota of
24.845 million barrels, which it’s currently exceeding by about
2 million barrels, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Most
OPEC ministers will also gather in  Riyadh , Saudi Arabia, on Feb.
22 for a meeting of the International Energy Forum.  While OPEC has left its quota unchanged at seven
consecutive meetings, global inventory levels suggest the group
is raising output, Goldman Sachs said in a report on Jan. 24.
The group’s effective spare capacity, which excludes Iraq,  Nigeria  and  Venezuela , dropped below 5 million barrels a day in
December, the first time in two years, according to a Jan. 18
IEA report. Stockpiles held by companies in the most developed
economies were at 2.742 billion barrels in November, close to
the top of their five-year range, it said.  ‘No Shortage’  Plentiful supplies make any production increase
unnecessary, according to Shokri Ghanem, chairman of  Libya ’s
National Oil Corp. “We don’t feel there is a shortage in the
market,” he said in a Feb. 3 Bloomberg Television interview.  The political turmoil in the region started in Tunisia with
the Jan. 14 ouster of President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali has
spread to Yemen, where thousands of demonstrators gathered
yesterday in the capital and police used tear gas in the port
city of Aden. More violence may occur in  Egypt  today after
Friday prayers.  Any escalation of the crisis in Egypt would require Middle
East producers to divert Suez shipments on a longer route that
avoids the canal, rather than increase supply, according to  Edward Morse , Credit Suisse AG’s head of commodities research.
Additional barrels aren’t needed because demand will slacken as
winter ends in the Northern Hemisphere.  ‘Dangerous Time’  “This is a particularly dangerous time to open the taps,”
Morse said in an interview in London on Feb. 1. “This is not a
supply disruption. It just means that flows that would have
occurred now occur in a more expensive way and take longer to
get where they’re going.”  Rising demand means an extra 300,000 barrels a day is
needed from OPEC to stem oil’s advance, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch said on Jan. 25. JPMorgan Chase & Co. said that any
premium caused by events in Egypt has already dissipated, and
that $100 oil reflects levels of supply versus demand.  Rather than damping oil’s rally, additional OPEC exports
may signal that demand is recovering faster than anticipated and
that spare supply will shrink, according to Goldman Sachs.  Higher production “ultimately accelerates the draw on OPEC
spare capacity,” analysts led by Jeff Currie in London wrote on
Jan. 24. This may indicate “the market may already have moved
into the second stage of its cyclical recovery to a structural  bull market ,” they said.  The four benchmark crudes that haven’t risen above $100 a
barrel are WTI and Mars blend in the U.S., Oman and Murban
grades in the Middle East.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on 
 sev@bloomberg.net  