-- Egypt's Chaos Defines Bleeding in Despotic Arab World: Tariq Ali
-- B y   T a r i q   A l i
-- 2011-02-04T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/egypt-chaos-defines-bleeding-in-despot-arab-world-commentary-by-tariq-ali.html
“Freedom lies behind a door closed
shut,” the great Egyptian poet Ahmed Shawqi wrote in the last
century. “It can only be knocked down with a bleeding fist.”
More than that is bleeding in the Arab world at the moment.  The uprisings we are witnessing in  Egypt  have been a rude
awakening for all those who imagined that the despots of the
Arab world could be kept in place provided they continued to
serve the needs of the West and their harsh methods weren’t
aired on CNN and BBC World. But while Western establishments
lull themselves to sleep with fairy tales, ordinary citizens,
who are defeated and demoralized, mull their revenge.  The French government seriously considered sending its
paratroopers to save former President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali in  Tunisia . Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is pleading
with officials in Washington to delay  Hosni Mubarak ’s departure
from Egypt so that Israel has time to prepare for the likely
outcome. Former U.K. Prime Minister  Tony Blair  is even
describing the Egyptian dictator as a “force for good.”  The almost 200 pro-democracy citizens who have been killed
don’t bother him too much. That’s small beer compared with the
tens of thousands dead in  Iraq . And a desperate  Palestine
Liberation Organization  is backing Mubarak and repressing
solidarity demonstrations in Ramallah on the  West Bank .  Hated Figures  In Yemen, another strongman in power for 30 years is
beginning to totter. President Ali Abdullah Saleh is a hated
figure, again backed by the West, as I discovered when I visited
the country last year.  If Tunisia was a tremor, the Egyptian uprising has become
an earthquake that is spreading throughout the region. The
generals in Cairo are still refusing to disperse the crowds with
tanks and bullets. A full-scale Tiananmen Square option, which
Mubarak and his friends would have appreciated, becomes
difficult in these conditions.  So what will they do? As the crisis moves a step further,
Vice President  Omar Suleiman , not trusted by many people as the
former director of intelligence, is hoping to divide the
opposition, clear the streets and negotiate a deal, offering Amr Moussa, the toothless head of the  Arab League , the interim
presidency. They want someone who will retain the remnants of
the old institutions and, in particular, the apparatuses of the
secret state that have been so useful in helping the West’s
policy of renditions in the war on terror, which has so far only
succeeded in engendering more terror.  Total Overhaul  The millions of people in the streets of Egypt are
demanding a total overhaul. They want, as in Tunisia, a new
constitution that guarantees political and social rights. They
want an independent foreign policy that is decided in Cairo, not  Tel Aviv  or  Washington . They want to lift the blockade of Gaza
so that its people can live as normally as possible.  This week, the Egyptian regime, shaken by the mass
mobilizations, threatened counter-revolution. Pro-Mubarak
forces, a combination of the security cops out of uniform and
gangsters released from prison, attacked protesters, creating
mayhem in Tahrir Square. The military, which pledged to defend
public safety, failed to do so.  In Alexandria, there were clashes between Mubarak’s
desperate supporters and the anti-government protesters. The
coming weekend is decisive. The planned march by several hundred
thousand people on the presidential palace might drive Mubarak
to get a helicopter to the airport. One assumes the Saudis are
preparing a palace for him as is their wont.  Plan B  A post-Mubarak Egypt is difficult to predict with
exactitude. What we can say is that it won’t be a repeat of the
1979 Iranian Revolution. The iron will of the Ayatollah doesn’t
exist in Cairo. Instead there is a decent, amiable technocrat,
Mohamed El Baradei, more known abroad than at home, as a
possible Plan B for the White House.  Lurking behind El Baradei is the  Muslim Brotherhood . It,
too, is divided, with a dominant wing composed of young,
modernist Muslims who want to mimic  Turkey . If the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization’s favorite Islamists in Istanbul
can do business with Washington, why not their Egyptian
equivalents? They have been engaged in private discussions with
informal emissaries from the U.S. for more than a decade.  Nonetheless, a regime propelled into office via an uprising
from below can’t be as cavalier in disregarding public opinion,
and nor is this a time for the U.S. to start preaching the
virtues of liberal capitalism: The recent fate of Iceland,
Ireland and  Greece  should be enough on that score.  Internally, what is required is to rebuild the abandoned
social safety net, providing elementary health, education and
housing for the poor.  Externally, Egypt’s relationship with the U.S. and Israel
will have to be modified, regardless of who succeeds Mubarak. A
peace treaty that benefits  Israel  alone was never accepted by
the Egyptian people.  Only then will Egypt be able to stop the bleeding.  ( Tariq Ali  is a London-based writer, filmmaker and author
of the 2010 book “The Obama Syndrome.” The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Tariq Ali at  tariq.ali3@btinternet.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  