-- Egyptians May Move Funds to Switzerland, Banker Says
-- B y   L e i g h   B a l d w i n
-- 2011-02-04T20:39:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/egypt-s-rich-ask-about-moving-funds-to-switzerland-banker-says.html
  Egypt ’s rich are considering taking
money out of the country as violent protests against President  Hosni Mubarak  enter a 10th day, and Switzerland is a popular
destination, a Swiss-based Arab banker said today.  “We’ve been getting inquiries about moving money” from
Egypt to the Alpine nation, said Karim al-Korey, an associate
director at  Arab Bank (Switzerland) Ltd . “I have two or three
clients who could transfer 10 to 15 million dollars each.”  Two Arab Bank (Switzerland) executives sent an emailed
statement disputing al-Korey’s comments after they were
published, saying he was not authorized to speak publicly for
the firm.  His comments as published do “not represent the official
position of the bank,” wrote Alain Dargham, the head of
investment advisory, and Jean Kamitsis, head of  wealth
management . “We formally deny the content.”  Protests against Mubarak have left about 300 people dead
and hundreds more injured in the past two weeks. Egypt’s ruler
has replaced ministers and promised free elections before
stepping down in September. That hasn’t calmed protesters who
say his 30-year presidency must end immediately.  “Everything in Egypt is now closed but we think banks
could start to reopen on Sunday. If this is the case, we expect
funds to come in,” al-Korey told Bloomberg by telephone from
his Geneva office. If Mubarak goes, “people all over the region
will get scared and start transferring money.”  Frozen Assets  Switzerland on Jan. 19 froze any assets belonging to  Tunisia ’s ousted President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali and his
entourage. Ben Ali fled to  Saudi Arabia  after a popular revolt
ended his 23-year rule.  Most Egyptians close to Mubarak aren’t worried that their
funds will be seized abroad and still see Switzerland as the
safest haven, al-Korey said.  “There is a fear but only for a very few people,” the
banker said. “You are talking about Mubarak, his sons, and
Ahmed Ezz, the richest man in Egypt, as well as maybe 10 or 15
of the top businessmen.”  Ezz, chairman of Ezz Steel, was among the businessmen
ousted from cabinet and ruling party positions yesterday.  UBS AG 
and  Credit Suisse Group AG , Switzerland’s biggest banks,
declined to comment on possible movements of funds from Egypt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leigh Baldwin at 
 lbaldwin3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  