-- Emerging-Market ETF Outflows Reach Record as Egypt Spurs Hedge Fund Exit
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2011-02-04T12:30:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/emerging-market-etfs-have-record-outflows-as-egypt-spurs-hedge-fund-exit.html
Emerging-market exchange traded funds
had their biggest-ever weekly outflows as violent clashes in  Egypt  and record world food prices heightened concern that
inflation may spur social unrest and curb consumer spending.  Investors pulled $4.6 billion from ETFs that track
developing-nation stocks during the week ended Feb. 2, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch wrote in a note today, citing data
compiled by research firm EPFR Global. Outflows from all
emerging-market equity funds totaled $7.2 billion, the most
since January 2008.  Withdrawals from ETFs, which are listed on an exchange and
change hands throughout the day like stocks, signal hedge funds
are paring bets on the fastest-growing nations, Morgan Stanley
wrote in a Feb. 1 report. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has
dropped 1.5 percent this year as countries from Brazil to
Hungary and  Indonesia  raised interest rates to combat inflation.
Protests against President Hosni Mubarak in Egypt, the world’s
biggest wheat importer, have left about 300 dead and injured
hundreds more the past two weeks.  “The people who were hoping to make a fast buck in
emerging markets at the start of 2011 have seen that the world
is a slightly different place to what they had thought it might
be,”  Nigel Rendell , an emerging-market strategist at  RBC
Capital Markets  in London, said in a phone interview today.  Investors poured more than $90 billion into emerging-market
stock funds last year as the economies grew at a 7.1 percent
pace, more than double the 3 percent rate for advanced nations,
according to data compiled by Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
EPFR Global and the  International Monetary Fund . The MSCI
emerging-market index gained 16 percent in 2010 and Indonesia’s  Jakarta Composite Index  jumped 46 percent.  Record Food Prices  Now central bankers are trying to slow the expansion as
surging food prices boost inflation in seven of the 10 biggest
developing economies. A United Nations index of 55 food
commodities gained 3.4 percent in January to an all-time high,
the seventh straight monthly increase.  Consumers in Brazil, Russia,  India  and  China  spend about 19
percent of their income on food, compared with 6 percent in the
U.S., Euromonitor International data show.  Indonesia’s central bank unexpectedly raised its benchmark
interest rate for the first time in more than two years today
after inflation climbed to a 21-month high.  Brazil ’s central
bank lifted its overnight rate by 50 basis points, or 0.5
percentage point, to 11.25 percent on Jan. 19. Hungary increased
borrowing costs for a third month on Jan. 24.  Tighter monetary policy is already curbing growth.
Citigroup Inc.’s Economic Surprise Index for emerging markets, a
gauge of how much reports are exceeding the median economist
estimates in Bloomberg News surveys, has dropped to 22 from 51 a
year ago.  ‘Great Rotation’  While investors pull money from emerging markets, they’re
increasing bets on stocks in the U.S. and  Europe , part of a
shift this year that Bank of America strategist Michael Hartnett
called the “Great Rotation.” Funds that invest in developed
countries attracted $4.6 billion of inflows, beating emerging-
market funds for the fifth straight week, New York-based
Hartnett wrote today.  Reports last month showed U.S. consumer confidence rose
more than forecast in January, while the Institute of Supply
Management-Chicago Inc.’s gauge of business expansion climbed to
the highest level since 1988. German unemployment fell to an 18-
year low in January, and European retail sales increased at the
fastest rate in more than four years.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, the benchmark gauge for
U.S. stocks, has climbed 3.9 percent this year while the STOXX
Europe 600 Index gained 3.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Michael Patterson  in  London  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 