-- Tencent Acquires Majority Stake in Riot Games to Expand in U.S.
-- B y   A r i   L e v y   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2011-02-05T01:35:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/tencent-said-to-be-near-deal-to-buy-riot-games-for-more-than-350-million.html
  Tencent Holdings Ltd .,  China ’s
biggest Internet company by market value, bought a majority
stake in Los Angeles online-game publisher Riot Games Inc.  The transaction is expected to close within 30 days, Riot
Games said yesterday in a  statement . While terms weren’t
disclosed, a person familiar with the matter said the companies
were negotiating a price of more than $350 million. The person
declined to be identified because the terms are private.  Tencent is expanding outside of China, building on the 600
million-plus users of its QQ messaging service. The company
bought 10 percent of Russian investor Digital Sky Technologies
last year, giving it indirect stakes in Facebook Inc. and Zynga
Game Network Inc. Tencent is already an investor in Riot Games,
which develops the online game  “League of Legends.”   “I expect to continue to see Chinese companies look at
cross-border deals as they look beyond their domestic markets
for growth and opportunities,” said Joe Steger, global
technology transactions leader at Ernst & Young LLP in  San Jose ,  California .  Riot Games said it will keep its Los Angeles-area
headquarters and expects to hire aggressively this year. The
company also plans to develop new games and expand into other
markets, according to the statement.  The market for social and mobile games has attracted more
suitors since late 2009, when  Electronic Arts Inc . purchased
Playfish Inc. for about $400 million. Playdom Inc. was acquired
last year by Walt Disney Co. for $563.2 million, and Japan’s
DeNA Co. purchased Ngmoco for $400 million. Zynga, the biggest
maker of games on Facebook, is valued at $6 billion on secondary
exchange SharesPost Inc.  Microtransactions  Riot Games was founded five years ago by Brandon Beck and
Marc Merrill. The company raised $8 million in 2009 from Tencent
and venture firms  Benchmark Capital  and  FirstMark Capital . That
year, it introduced “League of Legends,” the company’s first
game. While the downloadable game is free to play, users spend
money on microtransactions, such as paying to strengthen their
characters.  A call placed to Riot Games’ office seeking comment wasn’t
immediately returned, and after-hours calls placed to Tencent’s
office in Shenzhen, China, weren’t answered.  Tencent, led by billionaire Chairman Ma Huateng, extended
its lead in gaming over rivals Shanda Games Ltd. and  NetEase.com 
Inc. during the third quarter, when profit jumped 52 percent to
2.15 billion yuan ($325 million) from a year earlier. Tencent
shares have jumped 42 percent in the past year.  Its QQ service controlled more than 77 percent of the
Chinese market at the end of 2009. As Tencent expands globally,
it may face increased competition in China from search engine
Baidu Inc., which is planning to develop more social-networking
features. Baidu Chief Executive Officer Robin Li said this week
that the company aims to derive more revenue from social
services.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:  Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net . 