-- Merkel Makes Euro Indispensable Turning Crisis Into Opportunity
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2011-02-04T11:19:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/merkel-makes-euro-indispensable-by-turning-crisis-into-german-opportunity.html
  Chancellor Angela Merkel  is turning
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis into an opportunity to reshape
the euro region in Germany’s image.  As Spain raises its retirement age, Greece cuts wages and  Portugal  imposes the deepest spending reductions in more than
three decades, Merkel’s resolve in refusing to aid neighbors
unconditionally is showing signs of working.  Seeking to erase doubts that the markets can snuff out the
12-year-old euro, which she has called the “uniting idea” of
post-World War II Europe, the 56-year-old scientist who grew up
in communist East Germany is set to swap stick for carrot and
throw the weight of Europe’s largest and richest economy behind
a plan to bolster the area’s rescue effort.  “This is the right time and these are the right ideas,”
Helmut Schlesinger, Bundesbank president from 1991 to 1993 when
the  euro’s founding treaty  took effect, said in a telephone
interview. Germany, the biggest contributor to bailouts for
Greece and Ireland, “has a special responsibility to come up
with proposals and see them through,” he said.  By demanding stricter oversight and tougher penalties on
fiscal miscreants, Merkel would complete the job begun at the
start of the euro. While German leaders in the 1990s equipped
the  European Central Bank  with the same inflation-fighting
mission as its Bundesbank, they failed to impose ironclad
controls on national budget policies.  The result: a crisis that has frustrated unprecedented
efforts by policy makers to calm markets and stoked doubts that
the euro would survive.  EU Summit  Merkel and counterparts from the 27-member European Union
met in Brussels today to review progress on a package they aim
to finish by late March and which may include an increase in the
bailout fund’s firepower, a reduction in  interest rates  on
rescue loans and deeper coordination of economic policies.  Her task is two-fold: protect a single currency she views
as indispensible and shift the euro-region toward the model of a
fiscally virtuous, hard-money, stable-growth economy that
underpinned Germany’s post-war recovery.  Still, as  Europe  prepared to bail out Ireland in November,
Merkel’s appeal to her skeptical electorate focused on the euro
as a symbol of peace to a nation ravaged by two world wars.  The euro “is about everything. If the euro fails, then
Europe fails, the European ideal of common values and unity will
fail,” Merkel said in a Nov. 15 speech to members of her party
in Karlsruhe, Germany. “This ideal has always given us strength
in the face of wars and destruction in Europe for the past
centuries -- to fight for peace, for prosperity and for freedom
on our continent.”  Merkel’s Task  Merkel is walking a fine line. Her effort could boomerang,
raising German borrowing costs and eroding political support
among voters hostile to channeling their taxes to those who
avoided painful policy choices on their own.  Bunds will suffer whenever “German tax revenue is drawn
upon for cross-border purposes” to help weaker euro countries,
said  Andrew Bosomworth , a Munich-based fund manager at Pacific
Investment Management Co. who previously worked for the ECB.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year German bund reached the
highest in almost a year this week as euro-area inflation
advanced at its fastest pace in more than two years in January.  Germany undercut its own credibility in 2005 by teaming
with  France  to loosen budget rules after both countries overran
the EU deficit limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product. No
sanctions have ever been slapped on high-deficit states, not
even on  Greece , a country that never met the targets.  Seeking Payoff  Now Merkel, who gained a degree in physics from the Karl
Marx University in Leipzig and a doctorate in quantum chemistry
from the Central Institute of Physical Chemistry in East Berlin,
is seeking a payoff from a year of crisis-fighting and providing
the biggest share of a $1 trillion euro-region bailout package.  A fluent speaker of Russian and English, Merkel, a former
aide to Lothar de Maiziere, East Germany’s only democratically
elected premier, was picked for Chancellor Helmut Kohl’s post-
unification Cabinet. At 36, she became the youngest minister of
the post-war era.  Her message of austerity is backed by a personal style
recalling life in communist East  Germany .  The chancellor and her second husband, Joachim Sauer,
reject the sprawling living quarters in the chancellery and
instead live in her 19th-century apartment building in Berlin’s
central Mitte district. She disdains the official retreat, a
restored 18th century Prussian palace, spending weekends at the
family country house in the village of Hohenwalde, 80 kilometers
(50 miles) northeast of the capital.  Potato Soup  Merkel wheels a shopping cart through her local food store,
trailed by her security detail, at least once a month. She even
bags her own groceries and during her 2009 re-election campaign
she boasted that she makes a “mean potato soup” and does her
own laundry when time permits.  For a country where inflation weakened democracy in the
1920s and aided Adolf Hitler’s rise to power, the chancellor
says the euro is a pre-requisite for an economically strong,
peaceful Europe and protecting it requires the pain of budget
cuts in the so-called peripheral economies.  “Indebtedness is the biggest danger for prosperity on this
continent,” Merkel told the World Economic Forum’s annual
meeting in Davos,  Switzerland , on Jan. 28. Any country that gets
aid “must receive this solidarity under certain conditions.”  Tighter control of national finances tops Germany’s list of
demands. Narrowing Europe-wide differences in taxes, pay and
retirement age is also on the agenda, driven by Merkel and
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , a convert to her lobbying.  “Mrs. Merkel and I will never -- do you hear me? -- never
let the euro fail,” Sarkozy said in Davos.  Market Gains  Merkel may have pulled ahead for now in her battle to
restore policy makers’ mastery over the markets. The euro
climbed to a three-month high this week and bond-risk premiums
for  Spain , Portugal,  Italy  and  Belgium  narrowed as investors bet
that Europe will agree on ways to strengthen its crisis
response.  Governments are already taking Merkel’s medicine. Spain cut
public wages 5 percent last year, reduced firing costs, made it
easier for firms to opt out of collective-bargaining deals and
plan further changes to those pacts by March. All but the lowest
pensions have been frozen and the government is increasing the
retirement age to match Germany’s 67.  “In my 25 years as an economist I can’t recall another
advanced economy having undertaken such an agenda of reforms in
such a short period of time,” said Erik Nielsen, London-based
chief European economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Loosening Strings  In return, Merkel may be willing to loosen the purse-
strings by bolstering a 440 billion-euro ($600 billion) European
Financial Stability Facility, whose lending ability is limited
by collateral rules to about 250 billion euros.  Merkel’s bailout tactics underscore her response to
previous crises. She was criticized for moving too slowly on
stimulus spending as the economy sank into recession, on
supporting banks after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. rocked the global financial system and on extending a
lifeline to Greece.  Those who know her say that represents a scientific cast
that differs from most of her political counterparts who are
mainly lawyers or businessmen.  “It’s policy by trial and error. She passionately takes a
position, then turns 180 degrees and changes her mind,” Gerd Langguth, political scientist at University of Bonn and Merkel
biographer, in a phone interview today. “She doesn’t do
politics from the gut. Sure, therein lies a danger, because
those politicians often have a feel for getting it right. Merkel
just wants all the facts on the table.”  Debt Limits  Merkel points to constitutional debt limits adopted by
Germany in 2009 as a model for the rest of Europe and views the
Sweden’s revamping of its welfare state in the 1990s as another
inspiration. Years of wage restraint in Germany and cuts in
social programs by Gerhard Schroeder, the previous chancellor,
further strengthen her hand.  European Commission  statistics show unit labor costs shrank
in Germany each year from 2004 through 2007 and grew less than 1
percent in each of the six previous years. In that period, the
euro-area average was only lower in 1998 and never contracted.  “Germany went through a difficult and painful
restructuring,” said  Klaus Baader , co-chief European economist
at Societe Generale SA in  London . “The fruits are clear to see
and that’s what Germany expects of other euro member
countries.”  German Expansion  Powered by exports, Germany had its fastest economic
expansion in two decades last year with gross domestic product
jumping 3.6 percent. Unemployment fell to an 18-year low of 7.4
percent in January -- the second lowest among the Group of Seven
economies after Japan -- and business confidence reached a
record high.  Continental AG, the second-biggest tire maker in Europe,
last month reported sales and earnings that beat its 2010 goals,
while Siemens AG, Europe’s largest engineering company, said
fiscal first-quarter profit increased more than estimated.  Since spooking markets in October by saying bondholders
will have to pay in future bailouts and again in November by
calling the euro’s condition “exceptionally serious,” Merkel
has shifted her public stance to a come-what-may defense of the
currency. “We support whatever is needed to support the euro,”
she said in Berlin on Jan. 12.  She may have other aims. Merkel may nominate Bundesbank
President  Axel Weber  to replace  Jean-Claude Trichet  as president
of the  ECB  after his term ends in October, a move that would
install a so-called inflation hawk to keep a lid on prices.  Roubini’s Doubts  Merkel will ultimately fail if she attempts to impose the
German diet on Europe without giving more in return, said
Nouriel Roubini, chairman of Roubini Global Economics LLC.
Germany and other countries should slow their deficit cuts and
Greece should restructure its debt now, he said.  Germany’s message is “we don’t care about pain and the
only solutions are austerity and structural reforms, and
anything else has to wait for 2013,” when the EU aims to have a
permanent defense system for the euro in place, said Roubini.
“You need a more comprehensive solution sooner.”  Most international investors predict at least one of the 17
nations will leave the euro area within five years and that
Greece and Ireland will default, according to the January 2011
Bloomberg Global Poll that underscored the urgency leaders face
in calming markets. The same poll ranked Merkel as the most
favored of nine global policy makers.  State Elections  Constraining Merkel are elections in seven of Germany’s 16
states this year -- with Baden-Württemberg’s on March 27 -- and
public resistance to putting more taxpayer money on the line for
bailouts, tinged with nostalgia for the deutsche mark. Within
her governing coalition, the Free Democratic Party in January
rejected any increase in the bailout fund.  Greater financial support for indebted euro-area countries
was opposed by 64 percent of German respondents in a Jan. 28 FG
Wahlen poll. About half of Germans would ditch the euro and
return to the deutsche mark, a Dec. 26 YouGov survey for the
Bild newspaper showed.  That underscores the need for her to keep both euro-region
neighbors and her own voters on side, said Harvard University
historian  Niall Ferguson , who has written about Germany’s
economy and yesterday met Merkel and Spanish Prime Minister
Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero in  Madrid .  “The euro has to survive because it’s in Germany’s interest
and the German voters are gradually coming to see they can’t
afford to see this fall apart,” Ferguson told Bloomberg
Television. Merkel’s strategy means the “outlook for
the euro has definitely improved.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  