-- Germany, France Face Opposition on Strategy to Tackle Europe's Debt Crisis
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2011-02-05T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/merkel-sarkozy-call-euro-region-march-summit-on-economic-competitiveness.html
  Germany  and  France  met resistance to
calls for closer coordination of tax, wage and pension policies,
stumbling in their effort to lead Europe out of the debt crisis.  The euro area’s two top economic powers were forced at a
European Union summit yesterday to scale back a proposed “pact   
for competitiveness'' to accompany immediate steps -- themselves 
under dispute -- to end the year-old fiscal trauma.  Leaders weighed holding an extra summit in March to bridge
the economic-management divide and resolve disagreements over
the expanded use of the 440 billion-euro ($600 billion) rescue
fund for debt-strapped countries.  “We discussed it not in depth,” EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  told reporters late yesterday after the meeting in
Brussels. “There was certainly not a proposal by France and
Germany, a concrete proposal.”  No final decision was made on the German and French call
for a 17-nation euro summit next month. It could come as late as
the eve of the next scheduled meeting of all 27 EU leaders on
March 24.  Signs of discord helped snuff out a three-day rally in
European bond markets and knocked the euro off a three-month
high, as investors questioned when Europe will come up with an
anti-crisis formula. The euro fell for a third day yesterday,
weakening as much as 0.5 percent to $1.3568.  Pacific Investment Management Co. is steering clear of
bonds from some peripheral European countries until a reform
strategy emerges, said Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive
officer.  ‘Not Yet’  “We’re not yet buying Greek or Irish bonds or
Portuguese,” El-Erian said at the Munich Security Conference.
“I say ‘not yet’ because, as I say, we’re hoping that efforts
will continue” with issues such as liquidity, debt overhang and
competitiveness.  European leaders gave no indication whether they are closer
to retooling the rescue fund, with Germany holding out against a
French-backed proposal for repurchases that would enable high-
debt countries to buy their own bonds at a discount on the
market.  German opposition to buybacks, which would pare the debt
burden of countries like  Greece , reflects an unwillingness to
pump more cash into the fund, known as the  European Financial
Stability Facility .  Instead, the focus is on mobilizing the full potential of
the fund, now able to lend only about 250 billion euros due to
collateral rules that underpin its AAA credit rating.  Main Mission  The  European Central Bank , which has propped up markets by
buying 76.5 billion euros of struggling countries’ bonds, is
looking to hand over that job to governments as it pivots to its
main mission of combating inflation.  The rescue fund must “be as flexible as possible and also
to be as effective as possible in terms of magnitude,” ECB
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said on Feb. 3.  While direct purchases of distressed countries’ bonds in
the primary market are likely to be part of the EFSF’s upgraded
toolkit, other pieces -- such as Ireland’s plea for lower  interest rates  on aid -- have yet to fall into place.  Germany, the biggest of the 17 euro nations, is tying its
approval of a stepped-up rescue effort to a toughening of
controls on budget shortfalls that have gone unenforced since
the euro’s birth in 1999.  “The year 2010 was a year of trials for the euro,” German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said yesterday in Brussels. “Germany
and France are firmly committed that 2011 will be the year of
new confidence for the euro.”  Debt-Limitation Rules  Merkel’s competitiveness proposal calls for debt-limitation
rules in national constitutions, a revival of EU plans to
harmonize the corporate-tax base, the abolition of wage
indexation and promises to clean up the banking system.  European Commission experts have been examining ways of
standardizing the company tax base for years, running up against
technical hurdles and objections from countries like Ireland,
home to a 12.5 percent business-tax rate.  “On a question like corporate taxes, it doesn’t mean that
a country like Ireland has to have the same rates as the others,
but let at least get together to make sure we are talking about
the same tax base,” French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said.  The competitiveness discussion -- an echo of Europe’s
existing “2020” plan to boost economic growth -- hasn’t gone
beyond basic principles. A French official told reporters that
there is no question of further raising France’s retirement age
after it was lifted to 62 from 60 last year.  Cost-of-Living Increases  Luxembourg and  Belgium  rebelled against suggestions that
they might be forced to scrap wage-indexation policies that
automatically lift workers’ salaries in line with inflation.  Annual cost-of-living increases haven’t pushed labor costs
beyond European averages, leaders from the two countries said.  “Indexation won’t be annulled in Luxembourg,” Prime
Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said. “I made that clear.”  The conflicts risk fracturing  Europe  into a two-tier
economy, with fiscally prudent northern countries posting trade
surpluses and weaker southern economies being submerged by debt,
billionaire investor  George Soros  said.  “The structure that’s being currently discussed will cast
that divergence in stone,” Soros said at the Munich conference.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  