-- Merrill Warned Mets’ Katz About Madoff Investments
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2011-02-04T20:15:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/merrill-warned-mets-katz-about-madoff-investments-trustee-complaint-says.html
  New York  Mets president Saul Katz
ignored warnings from Merrill Lynch & Co. about investing with
Ponzi schemer  Bernard Madoff , according to the trustee
overseeing the Madoff bankruptcy.  The trustee,  Irving Picard , sued Sterling Equities Inc.,
which owns the Mets baseball club, along with Mets LP, Mets
Chairman Fred Wilpon, and almost 100 related parties, including
Katz, in December. Picard is demanding the return of
$295 million in “fictitious” profits they allegedly earned in
the Madoff fraud, according to the complaint unsealed today.  Merrill had an internal ban on trades involving “exposure
to Madoff or any Madoff feeder fund” dating back to the late
1990s, according to the complaint. In 2007, after Merrill
invested in a hedge fund set up by Sterling with Peter Stamos,
chairman of  Major League Baseball ’s investment advisory board,
an unidentified executive shared his concerns about investing
with Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, Picard said.  “Merrill flatly refused to deal with BLMIS because of
concerns that Madoff’s investment advisory business operations
were not legitimate,” Picard said. “Merrill did not permit its
own money to be invested directly or indirectly through BLMIS.”  Sterling Stamos employees had also warned the Wilpon and
Katz families that Madoff “was too good to be true,” citing,
among other concerns, their fund’s inability to duplicate
Madoff’s returns.  “Despite Merrill’s confirmation of many of Stamos’ warnings
about Madoff, Sterling again chose to look the other way,”
according to the complaint.  Solely With Madoff  In 2008, Katz proposed that Sterling Stamos create a fund
to invest solely with Madoff. The unidentified Merrill executive
rejected Katz’s proposal, the trustee said.  Wilpon and Katz called the allegations in the complaint
“abusive, unfair and untrue.”  “Why should we ‘have known’ when the SEC and other
government agencies that had oversight responsibilities did not
know?” they said in a statement.  Merrill Lynch was acquired by Charlotte, North Carolina-
based  Bank of America Corp . in 2009.  Bill Halldin , a spokesman
for Bank of America, declined to comment.  Madoff, 72, pleaded guilty to masterminding the fraud in
March 2009 and is serving a 150-year prison sentence. At the
time of his arrest in December 2008, his account statements
reflected 4,900 accounts with stated balances of $68 billion.
Investors lost about $20 billion in principal, Picard has said.  The case is Picard v. Katz, 10-AP-5287,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York   Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 