-- Ethiopian President Concerned by Lease of Forest to Indian Firm
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2011-02-04T10:37:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/ethiopian-president-concerned-by-lease-of-forestry-land-for-agriculture.html
Ethiopian President Girma
Woldegiorgis and the country’s environmental regulator have both
written to the Agriculture Ministry expressing concern over the
sale of forestry land to foreign agricultural companies.  “Whilst our country is representing  Africa  in
international panels regarding global warming through our Prime
Minister, for no reason should forest land be given out for
agricultural purposes,” Girma wrote in a note dated Dec. 10 and
published on the Ethiopian Review website on Jan. 31.  The comments were in response to the lease of 3,012
hectares (7,443 acres) of forest in the Gambella region to New
Delhi-based Verdanta Harvests Plc on April 21. The land will
initially be used to grow tea.  Prime Minister  Meles Zenawi  headed Africa’s negotiating
team at the December 2009 Copenhagen climate summit where rich
nations pledged to give the developing world $30 billion by
2012. The money will partly be used for reforestation projects
that trap carbon dioxide. Ethiopia has also undertaken a
reforestation campaign over the last decade that took forest
coverage back up to 9 percent of the country’s land area, the
Agriculture Ministry said in July.  The Horn of Africa nation, which regularly suffers food
shortages, plans to lease another 3.6 million hectares (8.9
million acres) of land over the next five years to earn foreign
exchange and increase yields by raising productivity.  Agriculture Minister Tefera Deribew returned from a trip to  India  yesterday, where he was trying to attract more investment.  “I am confident that more than half of the 3.6 million
hectares land will go to Indians,” the New Delhi-based Indo-
Asian News Service cited him as saying on the visit.  Bush Not Forest  Verdanta’s land is “bush” not forest, Esayas Kebede, head
of the Agriculture Ministry’s investment support directorate,
said by phone yesterday.  Stringent environmental and social regulations are in place
and “every investor has to prepare an environmental impact
assessment before it clears the land,” Esayas said. “We have
given more attention to conservation in forest areas and the
people living there.”  Still, the ministry hasn’t replied to a letter from the
Environmental Protection Authority sent six months ago that
expressed concern about the Verdanta deal, according to Berhanu
Ayelew, assistant to the director general of the EPA.  “They should follow the correct procedures,” Berhanu said
by phone from  Addis Ababa  on Feb. 2. “If they have followed
them, let them show us and discuss it. The local community’s
concern is that natural forest they have been conserving for
many years has been given to investors.”  “The government has given us the land, signed, sealed and
documented. I do not know anything about any dispute,” Verdanta
Chief Executive Manojeet Barkataky said in an interview
yesterday in Addis Ababa. “It’s replacing green with green. Not
green with concrete.”  To contact the reporter on this story: William Davison in Addis
Ababa via Johannesburg at  pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 