-- Texas Snow, Ice Complicate Travel for Super Bowl Attendees in Dallas Area
-- B y   T h o m a s   K o r o s e c
-- 2011-02-04T05:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/texas-snow-and-ice-complicate-travel-for-super-bowl-attendees.html
The winter storm that paralyzed
the Dallas  Fort Worth  area with a coating of snow and ice
has so far had minimal impact on plans for the  Super Bowl ,
regional officials said yesterday.  “Will everyone who wanted to come here make it?
No,” Bill Lively, president of the North Texas Super Bowl
XLV Host Committee, said in a telephone interview. “But
most will get here, I’m certain.”  Airlines have been rearranging schedules to
accommodate Super Bowl travelers stranded by winter storms
across the U.S. on their way to see the  National Football
League ’s title game between the  Green Bay Packers  and the
Pittsburgh Steelers. Local road crews in the Dallas-Fort
Worth area have been sanding streets and freeways that were
covered with an inch of ice three days ago and remain slick
in temperatures not expected to climb above 32 degrees
Fahrenheit (0 Celsius) until tomorrow.  “The freeways are moving at 50 miles per hour, major
thoroughfares are improving and will only be getting better
as we warm up,” Michael Morris, director of transportation
for the  North Central Texas Council  of Governments, said in
a phone interview yesterday.  Extra road crews were brought in from other North  Texas  cities, including Abilene and Lubbock, to help clear
streets in advance of hundreds of events and parties
connected to the Super Bowl.  Collapsing Tents  “We see what’s on the schedule and work on those
streets,” Morris said.  Only a handful of Super Bowl activities had been
canceled through yesterday, said Tony Fay, spokesman for
the regional Super Bowl host committee. “We had player
visits to local schools canceled because the schools were
closed,” he said.  The sleet and snow collapsed tents in Dallas’s Cotton
Bowl stadium that had been pitched to house three nights of
Super Bowl-related concerts. The concerts were moved to
indoor locations. An NFL Alumni Association golf tournament
also was recast as an indoor event, said Marty Lerch, the
event’s organizer.  Morris, who put together the transportation plan for
the host committee, said nearly all the 150,000 expected
visitors will arrive on commercial flights, by charter or
private jet.  “They’re not driving in or taking a bus,” he said.  Adding Flights  Tim Smith, spokesman for  American Airlines , which runs
the most flights from Dallas-Fort Worth International
Airport, said the majority of the airline’s flights between  Chicago  and Dallas-Fort Worth were operating yesterday.  “So that’s a good thing,” he said. “The busiest
days related to the Sunday game are Friday and Saturday.”  Extra American flights to Dallas were added yesterday
to make up for weather cancellations in Chicago the two
previous days, Smith said. Those are in addition to 12
extra flights previously added to the schedule to fly fans
to the game today from Pittsburgh,  Green Bay ,  Milwaukee  and
Chicago.  The forecast for more snow in Texas could further
complicate travel. Jason Dunn, a meteorologist with the  National Weather Service  in Fort Worth, said another front
was expected to give the area one to two inches of snow
today.  “The storm we’re looking at now is the one in the
south hitting Houston,” said Brad Hawkins, a spokesman for
Southwest Airlines.  Moisture from the  Gulf of Mexico ,
colliding with cold air from the north, covered the coastal
city in a rare blanket of snow and ice yesterday.  More Delays Possible  The storm system may require Southwest to redirect
passengers bound for Dallas Love Field through cities such
as  Kansas City  or  Little Rock , Hawkins said. Southwest also
has added more flights from Milwaukee and Pittsburgh to
handle Super Bowl traffic, he said.  The foul weather so far has not hurt hotel bookings at
the more than 120 hotels and motels represented by the
Hotel Association of Tarrant County in Fort Worth, said the
group’s executive director, Julie Faver-Dylla. She said she
hadn’t heard of reservations being canceled.  “We’re completely sold out in Fort Worth and people
are still calling the Arlington convention bureau looking
for rooms,” she said.  The National Weather Service forecast for  Dallas 
tomorrow is for a sunny sky and a high of 45 degrees. The
game-day forecast is for sun and a high of 49 degrees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Korosec in Dallas at 
 tkorosec@sbcglobal.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  