-- Facebook to Reveal Plan for Former Sun Office Campus
-- B y   D a n   L e v y   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2011-02-05T01:15:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/facebook-to-hold-event-about-new-corporate-campus-in-menlo-park-next-week.html
Facebook Inc. plans to develop a new
headquarters in  Menlo Park ,  California , a city official said
today. The world’s biggest social-networking company said
earlier it will hold an event in the city next week to discuss a
new corporate campus.  The 57-acre parcel on Bayfront Expressway has 1 million
square feet of existing office space and was formerly the
corporate base of Sun Microsystems Inc., according to  Menlo Park 
City Manager Glen Rojas. Officials have been in talks with the
company on zoning rules and development of the area, Rojas said
in a phone interview.  “It’s a big deal for our city,” Rojas said. “They’ve
been asking what the typical builder would ask.”  Facebook would acquire the 11-building site from  Oracle
Corp ., which acquired Sun last year, before adding or renovating
any structures, he said.  A Feb. 8 press conference at Menlo Park City Hall will
focus on a “campus that will fit our long-term business
needs,” Facebook said today in a statement. The company has
been in its current headquarters in neighboring  Palo Alto  since
May 2009. Jonathan Thaw, a spokesman, declined to comment beyond
the statement.  Facebook is hiring as it attracts more users and
advertising dollars and faces growing competition from  Google
Inc . and Twitter Inc. It has grown to more than 2,000 employees
from about 1,000 in August 2009, according to its website.  Users, Revenue  The company has more than 500 million users -- compared
with about 250 million in July 2009. Facebook, which isn’t
publicly traded and doesn’t disclose financial information, may
have more than doubled its revenue to about $2 billion last
year, three people familiar with the matter said in December.  The plans for a new campus follow the announcement that the
company raised $1.5 billion with investments led by Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. The investment, announced last month, put
Facebook’s valuation at $50 billion. Private-share exchange
 SharesPost Inc.  values the company at $63.7 billion.  Facebook has already acquired a nearby parcel that has
approvals for 400,000 square feet of  office space , Rojas said.  The company occupies two Palo Alto locations, paying $11 a
square foot on 265,000 square feet on Page Mill Road and $13 a
square foot on 137,000 square feet on South California Avenue,
according to commercial brokerage Cassidy Turley CPS.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;  Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 