-- Fay Vincent Predicts Steelers' Dan Rooney Will Broker NFL Labor Agreement
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2011-02-04T14:35:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/fay-vincent-predicts-steelers-dan-rooney-will-broker-nfl-labor-agreement.html
Fay Vincent, the former Major League
Baseball commissioner who presided over a players lockout in
1990, said Pittsburgh Steelers president emeritus Dan Rooney may
be instrumental in negotiating a labor deal between National
Football League players and owners.  In an interview with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg
Television’s “InsideTrack,” Vincent, 72, said Rooney may play
a role similar to that of Steve Greenberg during the 1990
baseball negotiations. Greenberg, the league’s deputy
commissioner for four years, negotiated an end to the lockout
before any regular-season games were missed. He now is a
managing director at Allen & Co.  “One wonders whether (Rooney) will not be the avuncular
gentleman that stands in the back of the room that eventually
says to (NFL Commissioner) Roger Goodell, ‘Make this deal. I
will deliver the owners and this is what you should do,’”
Vincent said.  NFL owners voted in 2008 to opt out of the collective
bargaining agreement after this season. The owners want to
expand the regular season to 18 games from 16 and create a
rookie salary cap, while the players are seeking improvement in
health care and an increased share of league revenue.  Negotiations are set to resume tomorrow at the Super Bowl
site in the Dallas area, the first full-scale talks between the
two sides since late November.  Ambassador  Rooney, 78, is the United States ambassador to Ireland. He
was the president of the Steelers from 1975 to 2002, when the
team made the playoffs 17 times and won three Super Bowl titles.  “He is a man of great prominence and standing, and the
franchise is very strong,” said Vincent, who was commissioner
from 1989-1992.  According to Vincent, a prolonged labor struggle will
financially damage both the players and owners, and Rooney’s
presence may neutralize that of owners such as the  Dallas
Cowboys ’  Jerry Jones , who has taken the lead role in pressing
management’s position.  “I just don’t know what the Jerry Joneses of the world and
some of the owners are up to,” Vincent said. “They may be very
hawkish, and that will make Roger Goodell’s job very hard.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 