-- Parkinson Sees Limited Commercial Property Threat
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2011-02-04T19:36:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/fed-s-parkinson-says-commercial-property-no-threat-to-big-banks.html
  Patrick Parkinson , director of the  Federal Reserve ’s division of banking supervision and
regulation, said losses in commercial real estate don’t pose a
threat to the biggest U.S. banks.  “Notably, CRE concentrations are not a significant issue
at the largest banks,” Parkinson said today in testimony in  Washington  to the Congressional Oversight Panel of the Troubled
Asset Relief Program. “We do not see CRE losses as a threat to
systemically important financial institutions.”  The panel last February said a deteriorating market for
commercial real estate could wreck the  U.S. economy . Borrowers
for about half of the $1.4 trillion in property loans set to be
paid off by 2014 owed more than the value of their real estate.  Parkinson said today that while some systemically important
financial institutions have “substantial exposures” to
commercial mortgage-backed securities, the “risks in these
areas have been reduced, as significant markdowns have already
been taken on these securities.”  An index of commercial property prices from Moody’s
Investors Service said that prices fell 45 percent from October
2007 to August 2010. Prices have since risen 6.4 percent.  Investment is “flowing back” into real estate investment
trusts “of late,” Parkinson said in reply to questions from
lawmakers. The government can best support the recovery of
commercial real estate “through prudent monetary and fiscal
policies,” he said.  Vulnerable to Losses  Some 1,200 commercial banks, or 18 percent of all banks,
were vulnerable to losses on loans for commercial real estate,
Parkinson said. Banks with assets between $1 billion and $10
billion had the most at risk in the market, he said.  Commercial real estate is a lagging sector of the economy,
Parkinson said, and “it is estimated that banks have taken
roughly 40 to 50 percent of the CRE losses that they will
realize over this cycle.”  “Using past cycles as a guide, we expect that the
remaining losses will likely be incurred over the next few
years,” he said.  “While we expect significant ongoing CRE-related problems,
it appears that worst-case scenarios are becoming increasingly
unlikely,” Parkinson said.  Prices have yet to show "very strong" growth as they
recover, Matthew Anderson, managing director of Foresight
Analytics, a unit of Trepp LLC, told the panel.  Trophy Properties  Values for so-called trophy properties have improved
substantially while less attractive assets have lagged behind,
said Richard Parkus, head of commercial real estate debt
research at  Morgan Stanley .  “There is a very significant bifurcation between the
haves, the very best, and the have-nots, which is a very large
portion of commercial real estate,” Parkus told the panel.  While vacancy rates will decline this year and next, a
market comeback will be delayed by leases renewed at lower
rents, he said.  “That will drag the recovery out several years,” Parkus
said.  Most analysts expect losses on loans bundled into
commercial mortgage-backed securities during the “bubble”
years that started in 2005 to exceed by as much as 5 percentage
points the losses of the early 1990s, when they reached 9
percent to 10 percent, according to Parkus.  “Since late 2008, commercial real estate has gone through
the most severe downturn since the early 1990s,” he told the
panel. “In many respects, the downturn has been even more
severe.”  Parkus and Anderson said rising  interest rates  pose a
potential threat to commercial real estate by hampering
borrowers’ ability to repay loans.  “It depends on what’s driving interest rates,” Parkus
said. “Today there’s a lot of concern about future inflation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washingtont ;
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at   hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  