-- For Smaller Government, Elect Shorter Lawmakers: Caroline Baum
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2011-02-04T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/for-smaller-government-get-shorter-lawmakers-commentary-by-caroline-baum.html
The Republican majority in the U.S.  House of Representatives  is promising to cut $100 billion from
domestic spending this year. The Tea Party caucus’s response?
I’ll see your $100 billion and raise you $2.4 trillion over 10
years.  Both groups are barking up the wrong tree or, to use a more
appropriate animal analogy, putting the cart before the horse.
The road to real  deficit reduction , not a cosmetic nip and tuck,
runs through  term limits . If Americans are truly interested in
shrinking the size of government -- one of the takeaways from
the 2010 midterm election -- they can start by limiting the
amount of time lawmakers are allowed to serve.  This would require a constitutional amendment (see  U.S.
Term Limits, Inc. v. Thornton , 1995), no mean feat, requiring as
it does approval by a two-thirds majority in Congress. But not
impossible either. Recent events in the Middle East demonstrate
just how potent people power can be.  Would it surprise you to learn that newbies in Congress
(those who have served six years or less in the House and 12 or
less in the Senate) are more likely to vote for fiscal restraint
than veteran lawmakers? Or that this finding was based on votes
taken from 1995 through 1998, when Republicans controlled both
houses of Congress? Even  Newt Gingrich ’s class of ‘94,
determined to shrink the size and scope of government, couldn’t
buck the Old Guard, according to the results of this Cato
Institute  study .  Shrunken Egos  In the last two years, the spending increases in bills
proposed by freshman House Democrats were 60 percent lower than
those sponsored by their more senior colleagues, according to
Peter Sepp, vice president for communications at the National
Taxpayers’ Union. The GOP freshmen proposed 15 percent more cuts
in spending than the old-timers.  It turns out the old adage is true: The longer they stay,
the more they spend. It’s what political scientist James L.
Payne calls “The Culture of Spending,” the title of his 1991
 book .  “What goes on is a socialization process: a nicer way of
saying indoctrination,” Payne said in a telephone interview.
“One is surrounded by people who have a biased reason for
arguing that federal spending is good, necessary, wise and
proper. There’s no reason for anyone to enter this process if he
believes it’s unwise or unethical.”  Clearly the Paul family, father Ron and son Rand, stands
out as an exception.  Payne v. Baum  Payne, an independent researcher in Sandpoint,  Idaho ,
challenged my premise that spending is the surest route to re-
election. If spending were motivated by an attempt to buy votes,
then lawmakers who announce they’re retiring 18 months before
the election would demonstrate a pattern of greater fiscal
restraint, according to Payne.  “They don’t,” he said. “The election does not drive
spending,” which is why long-serving congressmen from
electorally safe districts are profligate spenders as well.  So that’s why the late  Robert Byrd , who represented  West
Virginia  for half a century in the Senate, has 33 roads, bridges
and buildings  named after him .  While Payne upended my notion that lawmakers’ spending is
driven by a desire to ingratiate themselves with key
constituencies, I’m happy to report his research supports my
conclusion. Term limits would ensure a regular flow of new
blood. New blood is less tainted than old blood when it comes to
the culture of spending.  Lifetime Employment  From 1964 to 2008, the  incumbency rate  in the House of
Representatives averaged 93 percent, according to the Center for
Responsive politics, a non-partisan independent research group
tracking money in politics. Even in a wave election like the
2010 midterms, where the GOP picked up 63  House seats , the  re-
election rate  was 86 percent, the lowest since 1948.  So yes,  Virginia , we have created a permanent ruling class,
something the Founders feared. James Madison worried that
without term limits, legislators would serve their narrow self-
interest at the expense of the national interest. He was right.  Whether Payne is correct and the culture of  Washington 
drives spending, or Baum’s theory of pay-to-play is operative,
term limits are the solution. As it now stands, the only
lawmakers who self-limit their term of office are the ones who
support term limits. That leaves us with lifers and losers.  Cut My Benefit?  Our elected representatives see a steady stream of
constituents traipsing through their offices with requests for
government largesse. Aunt Gertrude can’t pay her medical bills.
Uncle Roger watched his home and office succumb to a tornado.
Cousin Vinny lost his home to foreclosure.  Like most human beings, lawmakers want to help. So they
blithely vote for more spending because, quite simply, if they
don’t put their hand in the cookie jar, someone else will.  When was the last time a constituent walked into his
congressman’s office and asked for cuts in popular government
programs? Unless you believe in fairy tales, a prerequisite for
smaller government is short-term legislators.    Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  