-- Rajaratnam Wants Jury Told His Job Was to ‘Ferret Out’ Data
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2011-02-05T05:06:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/galleon-s-rajaratnam-wants-insider-jury-told-job-was-to-ferret-out-data.html
Raj Rajaratnam wants jurors at
his insider-trading trial told that he was a professional
stock analyst who broke no laws by speaking to corporate
insiders as he worked to “ferret out” information.  With jury selection three weeks away,  John Dowd , the
lead defense lawyer for the Galleon Group LLC hedge fund
co-founder, gave the judge a proposal for instructing
jurors on the law, offering the most detailed insight yet
into his defense strategy.  “As the steward of his investors’ money, Mr.
Rajaratnam had a fiduciary duty to trade in securities that
he thought had attractive investment potential,” Dowd said
in a Feb. 2 court filing on the proposed language. “The
law permits analysts and investment advisers to speak with
corporate insiders” and it’s common “for analysts to
ferret out and analyze information.”  Rajaratnam, 53, goes on trial Feb. 28 in Manhattan
federal court in what prosecutors said is the biggest U.S.
crackdown on insider trading by  hedge funds . The Sri Lanka
native is accused of making more than $40 million in
illegal trades dating back to 2003 at his New York-based
fund and faces as many as 20 years in prison if convicted
of the most serious charges. He denies wrongdoing.  At least a half-dozen traders are cooperating with the
government, and more than 30 people have been accused in
alleged conspiracies tied to the case, the first to make
extensive use of phone taps to detect Wall Street insider-
trading.  In the more than 15 months since Rajaratnam was
charged, the probe has expanded to other hedge funds,
banks, technology companies and so-called expert networking
firms. Six defendants were sued by the Securities and
Exchange Commission on Feb. 3.  ‘Great Lengths’  Rajaratnam is accused of using secret tips from hedge
fund executives, corporate officials and other insiders to
trade in more than a dozen stocks, including  Intel Corp .,  International Business Machines Corp .,  Akamai Technologies
Inc .,  Google Inc . and  Advanced Micro Devices Inc .  His defense remains something of a mystery, the
government has said. Jessie Erwin, a spokeswoman for
Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara , declined to comment.  “The defendant has gone to great lengths to keep from
the government the witnesses he intends to call and the
defense theories he intends to present,” Assistant U.S.
Attorney Jonathan Streeter wrote in court papers Jan. 26.  Dowd has chided prosecutors for trying to “smoke
out” details before the trial begins.  ‘Doing My Job’  The proposed jury instructions indicate Rajaratnam is
planning to argue he was “just doing my job” by amassing
company news, said Barry Pollack, a white-collar defense
lawyer at Miller & Chevalier in  Washington  who isn’t
involved in the case.  Unable to challenge government evidence that
Rajaratnam had frequent communications about stocks and
public companies, the defense will put an innocent
explanation on his remarks and show that Rajaratnam never
intended to break the law, Pollack said.  “The defense clearly wants the jury to understand
that there’s nothing improper with talking to sources,”
Pollack said in a telephone interview. “They’re saying,
‘What you are paying an  investment adviser  for is to go out
and gather intelligence. In fact, he would be derelict if
he wasn’t.’”  His proposed jury instructions must be approved by
U.S. District Judge  Richard Holwell , who will also weigh a
competing request from prosecutors and may use instructions
of his own.  The government’s proposal differs from Dowd’s and
suggests, for instance, that Holwell tell jurors that one
aim of U.S. securities law is to protect “the investing
public.”  Stock, Not Vegetables  “Congress recognized that the purchase of a stock is
different from the purchase of a vegetable bought in the
grocery store,” prosecutors urged Holwell to tell jurors
in their proposed jury instruction, or “charge.”  Rajaratnam’s spokesman,  Jim McCarthy , declined to
comment.  Five of 14 counts against Rajaratnam accuse him of
joining separate insider conspiracies. In the defense
proposal, Dowd asked Holwell to tell jurors that Rajaratnam
can’t be convicted of conspiracy if his alleged accomplices
had merely feigned an intention to break the law or if
Rajaratnam didn’t knowingly join their schemes.  To Pollack, the proposal indicates that Rajaratnam may
argue that conversations jurors hear on the wiretaps are
embellishments by the parties.  “That fact that somebody tells me they’re giving me
an inside scoop doesn’t mean they believe that’s the case -
- or that I believed that,” he said.  Too Removed  The defense may also be preparing to argue that
Rajaratnam was too removed from the source of the leaks to
be guilty of  insider trading , said Robert Mintz, a lawyer
at McCarter & English LLP in  Newark ,  New Jersey . Dowd wants
jurors to be told that Rajaratnam can’t be convicted unless
the “company source” knew and agreed to Rajaratnam’s
receipt of inside information.  The defense wants jurors to know that Rajaratnam can’t
be a “tippee” -- that is, the recipient of inside
information --unless prosecutors prove that he knew the
leaker had violated a confidential relationship with the
company and had “personally benefitted in some way.”  “It appears the overarching defense will be that Mr.
Rajaratnam was far removed in the chain of inside
information,” Mintz, who isn’t involved in the case, said
in a telephone interview. “There were many layers between
the source of the leak before it reached him.”  ‘Ordinary Investor’  It’s becoming apparent that Rajaratnam will argue that
some of the information he received wasn’t “material” to
the “ordinary investor” and not covered by insider-
trading laws, said Richard Scheff, the chairman of
Montgomery, McCracken, Walker & Rhoads LLP, a Philadelphia-
based law firm. The defense proposal tells jurors not to
convict if tips were “vague,” “obvious hyperbole,”
“general information already known to the market,” or
“minor, meaningless or unimportant.”  “They’re going to try to demonstrate that it really
didn’t matter to the decision to invest or sell,” Scheff
said in a telephone interview.  “A skilled analyst like Mr. Rajaratnam may extract
information which, like pieces of a jigsaw puzzle, would
not be significant to the ordinary investor,” Dowd writes
in his jury proposal. “This kind of activity is lawful and
is not tantamount to possession of material information.”  Dowd wrote that he wants jurors to be told Rajaratnam
can’t be convicted if the information at issue has already
been disclosed by a company or if there’s no evidence that
Galleon traded on the specific tips.  Laying Groundwork  In the proposed instructions, defense lawyers said
Dowd is laying the groundwork for a traditional defense
tactic --undermining the credibility of cooperating
government witnesses by portraying them as liars who made
up testimony to win leniency.  One possible government witness, Richard Choo-Beng Lee, asked a judge yesterday to block part of a subpoena
issued to him by Rajaratnam. Rajaratnam’s subpoena seeks
all communications between Lee, who ran the Spherix Capital
LLC hedge fund, and any Galleon employee.  Lee doesn’t say in the document why Rajaratnam is
seeking the information from him. Lee pleaded guilty in the
case and is cooperating with prosecutors in exchange for
leniency. He said in the filing that the subpoena, which
also seeks tax returns and other information, is too broad
and violates his privacy.  Also yesterday, Rajaratnam asked the judge to exclude
evidence of trades in the stocks of  Procter & Gamble Co .
and three other companies that he says the government seeks
to introduce at trial. Prosecutors “attempt to add four
entirely new stocks to the case,” including Nvidia Corp.,
Intersil Corp. and Vishay Intertechnology Inc., in letters
dated Dec. 2, 2010, and Jan. 20, according to the filing.  Rajaratnam’s lawyers may be planning to argue that
their client tried hard to stay within the confines of the
law.  “The law is not violated if the defendant acted in
good faith and held an honest belief that his actions were
proper,” reads one of the proposed jury instructions.  Rajaratnam Testimony  To show he acted in good faith, Rajaratnam has “got
to get on the stand,” Scheff said. “That’s not the only
way to establish that, but the clearest and most direct way
to establish that is to look the jury straight in the eye
and tell them.”  Prosecutors are likely scrutinizing Dowd’s document
for insight into the defense, he added. Dowd, however,
isn’t revealing everything. In a section of his filing
where he proposes instructions for the defense “theory of
the case,” he wrote, “to be submitted at the end of
trial.”  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court for the Southern District of  New York 
  Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net . 