-- Gensler Says CFTC May Stagger Start Dates for Swap Market Rules
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2011-02-04T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/gensler-says-cftc-may-stagger-start-dates-for-swap-market-rules.html
The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  may stagger the effective dates for Dodd-Frank Act
rules to govern the $583 trillion swaps market, CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said today in a speech.  “Public comments will help inform the commission as to
what requirements can be met sooner and which ones will take a
bit more time,” Gensler said in remarks prepared for delivery
by videoconference to an American Bar Association derivatives
and futures law committee at a conference in Naples,  Florida .  The CFTC and the  Securities and Exchange Commission  are
leading efforts to write rules for the swaps market after
largely unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis.
Dodd-Frank, the regulatory overhaul enacted in response to the
crisis, gives the agencies until mid-July to approve the final
rules and allows at least 60 days after that before they must be
implemented by swap-market participants such as Wall Street
banks,  hedge funds  and clearinghouses.  Gensler’s comments come after 11 financial-industry trade
associations urged regulators to slow the pace of rulemaking.  “We are concerned that market participants will be asked
to do too much in too short a time,” groups including the
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association and the
Futures Industry Association said in a Dec. 6 letter.  Gensler said he couldn’t deliver his speech in person
because budget strains at the agency have forced the CFTC to
reduce travel expenses. SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro , speaking
today at a conference in  Washington , said budget constraints are
impeding her agency’s ability to handle its workload.  Derivatives, including swaps, are financial contracts tied
to an underlying stock, bond, currency or event, such as the
default of a company. The Basel-based  Bank for International
Settlements  estimated in 2010 that the global market for
private, or over-the-counter, derivatives was $583 trillion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Lawrence Roberts  at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  