-- Germany Can’t Freeze CO2 Permits as Czechs Warn of Contagion
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2011-02-04T16:07:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/germany-can-t-freeze-co2-permits-as-czechs-warn-of-market-contamination.html
The German carbon registry said it
can’t freeze permits despite reports that it received stolen
allowances from the  Czech Republic .  German law allows permits to trade freely unless there is
legal action, said Julie Steinen, spokeswoman for the German
emissions-trading authority DEHSt. She declined to say whether
permits reported missing from the Czech registry were found in  Germany .  The Berlin-based national registry, which keeps tabs on
emission allowances, reopened today after a 15-day halt imposed
by the European Union. The suspension followed hacking attacks in
January that left around 2 million permits missing. The Czech
registry, which said this week that 1.36 million permits stolen
from its accounts were illegally transferred to Germany, the
U.K. and  Estonia , added that the resumption of registries may
lead to the recirculation of questionable allowances.  To freeze the permits, a legal action in the form of
“advice from police or justice authorities” would be needed,
Steinen said. “No certificates in the German registry have been
frozen. The account holder to whom certificates are registered
can sell them or use them for compliance. Those are valuable
certificates.”  BlueNext SA, the Paris-based spot exchange for carbon
allowances, resumed trading today and said it received lists
identifying serial numbers of allegedly stolen permits from
nations including  Italy ,  Romania ,  Greece  and the Czech Republic.
The lists will allow these permits to be placed in isolation.  Long and Difficult  While officials in countries attacked by hackers managed to
track down the missing permits, the Czech registry said the
complexity of regulations and differences in national laws makes
return of allowances a long and difficult process.  The European Commission, the EU regulator, said last month
the recovery of any allowances transferred illegally has not
been harmonized in the 27-nation bloc and is a matter for
national law and local enforcement authorities.  Under the German greenhouse gas emissions trading act, the
party to whom a certificate has been registered is the legal
owner.  An account holder doesn’t have to present evidence on
how he became the owner of allowances and “it is up to private
arrangements in the delivery contract to request this
information,” Steinen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  