-- Girl Talk, Uberbowl, Surviving ‘Nixon,’ Rabbits: N.Y. Weekend
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2011-02-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/girl-talk-uberbowl-surviving-nixon-rabbits-n-y-weekend.html
  Frank Sinatra , Peggy Lee and Elvis
Costello recorded the gorgeous title song from Kurt Weill and
Maxwell Anderson’s 1949 Broadway musical, “Lost in the Stars.”  It’s based on Alan Paton’s anti-apartheid novel “Cry the
Beloved Country” and rarely staged, though Weill, somewhat
mysteriously, said it was his favorite score (and not “Three-
Penny Opera”).  Chuck Cooper and Daniel Breaker star as the minister and
his jailed son in the Encores! concert revival,  At City Center, 131 W. 55th St. Information: +1-212-581-
1212;  http://www.nycitycenter.org .  Afterward, snack on a martini and chef Waldy Malouf’s
signature wood-roasted oysters at  Beacon , 25 W. 56th St.
Information: +1-212-332-0500.  Saturday  A portrait of Mary Magdalene shows her with long hair, big
bare breasts and giant soft ears.  Queen Elizabeth  poses regally,
but has one obviously fake eye.  George Condo’s work is a mix of the sacred and the goofy,
all rendered with dazzling technical virtuosity. Perhaps now
best known for a Kanye West album cover, Condo has produced an
army of wildly imaginative characters over his prolific three-
decade career.  “George Condo: Mental States” is at the New Museum, 235
Bowery, through May 8. Information: +1-212-219-1222;
 http://www.newmuseum.org .  Saturday Night  Master of the mash-up Girl Talk will whip his hordes of
day-glo bespandexed attendees into a fever pitch at the Wellmont
Theatre on Saturday night.  No doubt he’ll throw down some tracks off his latest album,
“All Day,” but he prides himself on spontaneous eruptions so
prepare for songs colliding at breakneck speeds.  There will be crowd-surfing, jolly moshing and clouds of
shot-gunned toilet paper. All in all a sweaty, raving dance
party so wear your best gear.  5 Seymour St., Montclair, N.J. Information: +1-973-783-
9500;  http://www.wellmonttheatre.com .  More Saturday Night  You and the rest of us have heard a lot about “Nixon in  China ,” the opera by  John Adams  now at the Met.  Here’s our advice after feeling our limbs go numb at the
Wednesday premiere. Skip the pointless last act. The first has
the dramatic descent of the presidential plane from the clouds
above Beijing and some thumpingly good chorus music.  In the second act, the sympathetic Mrs. Nixon, the only
character given a plausible interior life, smiles her way
through an amusing visit with perfect pigs and happy children.
Then comes the show’s highlight: Mark Morris’s raucously
entertaining ballet featuring  Henry Kissinger  as a capitalist
letch.  At the  Metropolitan Opera ,  Lincoln Center , until Feb. 19th.
Information: +1-212-362-6000.
 http://www.metoperafamily.org/metopera   Sunday  Inaugurate the year of the rabbit with lion and dragon
dances at the 12th Annual Chinatown Lunar New Year Parade.  The festivities kick off Sunday morning at 11:30, winding
through the district along Mott, Canal, Bayard and East
Broadway. Information:
 http://www.betterchinatown.com/2011_newyearparade.html   Afterward, stop by  Hung Ry  for hand-pulled noodle soup. Try
oxtail, brisket, rutabaga with sour cherries, or lobster, hake,
sunchoke and hen of the woods.  55 Bond St. Information: +1-212-677-4864.  Big Game  Hit Joe’s Pub for the Uberbowl, not your conventional Super
Bowl party.  The match between the Steelers and the Packers will be
shown on a big-screen TV, but commentary will be provided by
actors and writers, including Kristen Johnston, the Voice’s
Michael Musto and Cintra Wilson of the New York Times, many of
whom have not actually seen a football game before.  Doors open at 6 p.m. There’s an afterparty at 10.  Joe’s Pub is at 425 Lafayette St. Information: +1-212-539-
8778;  http://joespub.com   (With assistance from Jeremy Gerard, Manuela Hoelterhoff,
Katya Kazakina and Lili Rosboch. Zinta Lundborg is an editor for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 