-- Global Regulators Seek Accord on Shadow Bank Rules by Mid-Year
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2011-02-04T13:41:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/global-regulators-seek-accord-on-shadow-bank-rules-by-mid-year.html
Global regulators will develop
international rules for so-called shadow banks by the middle of
the year to ensure companies from  hedge funds  to securities
brokers aren’t excluded from efforts to prevent another crisis.  The  Financial Stability Board  is working to “map” or
“define” shadow banks, Svein Andresen, its secretary general,
said in an e-mail. The FSB will hold a teleconference on Feb. 7.
to review the overhaul of international regulatory standards,
according to two people familiar with the discussions, who
couldn’t be identified because the talks aren’t public.  The shadow banking system had liabilities of about $16
trillion in the first quarter of 2010, the  Federal Reserve Bank
of New York  said in a report last year. Examples of shadow banks
include structured investment vehicles, credit hedge funds and
money market mutual funds, it said.  Before the financial crisis “there was no international
consensus” on shadow banks, said  Karel Lannoo , chief executive
officer of the Centre for European Policy Studies, a Brussels-
based research institute. “Even big energy or oil companies”
that trade in financial instruments may eventually be counted as
shadow banks, Lannoo said in a phone interview.  The  FSB , set up in 2009 by the Group of 20 countries to
spearhead changes to financial rules in the wake of the crisis,
is turning its attention to shadow banks to ensure that they
can’t be used by their owners and investors to escape
supervision. The issue is on the agenda for the FSB meeting next
week, according to one of the people.  ‘Regulatory Perimeter’    Mario Draghi , the FSB’s chairman, said last year that the
board would enlarge “the regulatory perimeter” to include the
“most important segments” of shadow banks.  The FSB aims by mid-2011 to draw up “recommendations to
strengthen the regulation and oversight of the shadow banking
system,” Andresen said.  The Fed defined shadow banking as institutions that can
provide credit but without the access to central bank liquidity
enjoyed by traditional lenders.  The teleconference will also discuss peer reviews of how
Spain and  Italy  implemented regulatory principles established by
the FSB, said one of the people familiar with the talks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  