-- Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Said to Be Among Ally’s IPO Underwriters
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2011-02-04T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/goldman-sachs-jpmorgan-said-to-be-among-ally-s-ipo-underwriters.html
  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. are among four New York-based firms picked by Ally
Financial Inc. to manage its initial public offering, according
to a person with direct knowledge of the matter.  Ally, the auto lender majority owned by the U.S.
government, also selected  Citigroup Inc . and  Morgan Stanley ,
said the person, who declined to be identified because the
decision isn’t public. The U.S. Treasury Department, which owns
73.8 percent of the lender, will decide how much the
underwriters are paid, the person said.  Ally chose the underwriters after interviewing banks last
week as Chief Executive Officer Michael Carpenter, 63, positions
the company for an IPO and the government looks to begin
unwinding its stake. The size of the offering hasn’t been
decided, the person said.  Gina Proia, a spokeswoman for Detroit-based Ally, declined
to comment, as did spokespeople for the four banks. Earlier this
week, Ally reported a fourth straight quarterly profit, posting
$79 million in net income for the fourth quarter.  Citigroup and Goldman Sachs have previously advised Ally.
Last March, Ally was said to hire both banks to explore ways to
repay U.S. taxpayers, and helped consider strategic alternatives
for its mortgage unit, which is now complete.  JPMorgan was chosen to participate in the share sales for
General Motors Co.,  American International Group Inc . and now
Ally, all of which have stakes owned by the U.S. government.
JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs were among those picked to manage the
AIG offering, a person with direct knowledge of the decision
said on Jan. 18. JPMorgan, Morgan Stanley and Citigroup were
among the firms that helped handle GM’s sale.  Underwriting Fees  The banks are unlikely to earn typical underwriting fees,
based on other transactions involving government ownership.
Treasury’s acting assistant secretary for financial stability,
Tim Massad, said Jan. 19 that underwriting fees in the AIG sale
will be “very low by normal standards” and that they “won’t
be any higher than GM.” GM paid 0.75 percent in fees to banks
managing its IPO.  Ally, a former GM unit once called GMAC Inc., benefited
from three rounds of government aid totaling $17.2 billion. In
addition to U.S. taxpayers, so-called third-party investors own
8.5 percent, Cerberus Capital Management LP has about 7.8
percent and GM and an affiliated trust hold 9.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 