-- Goodell Says `Round-The-Clock' Talks Needed for NFL Labor Deal
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2011-02-04T19:45:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/goodell-says-round-the-clock-talks-are-needed-to-reach-nfl-labor-accord.html
National Football League Commissioner
Roger Goodell said “intensive, round-the-clock” negotiations
with the players union are needed to reach an agreement on a new
labor contract.  Goodell, speaking at a press conference in Dallas two days
before the  Super Bowl , said it is “critical” an agreement is
reached before the current one expires March 3 because there
will be too much uncertainty afterward.  “This is the window of opportunity to get this done
right,” Goodell said.  His comments came a day after NFL Players Association
Executive Director  DeMaurice Smith  said that players want talks
to succeed, but that they’re preparing for owners to lock them
out when the deal expires.  Owners voted in 2008 to opt out of the labor deal after
this season, saying it didn’t account for costs such as those to
build stadiums. Talks have included topics such as what share of
revenue players should get, expanding the regular season to 18
games from 16, a rookie salary cap and health care.  The league and union have scheduled formal discussions for
tomorrow “as part of a process to intensify negotiations,”
according to a joint statement, along with a series of meetings
over the next few weeks.  Asked if owners plan to lock out players if a deal isn’t
reached, Goodell said “we have not made any determination on
what happens March 4. The ownership is completely focused on
getting an agreement that works and is fair to players and the
clubs. And that’s their focus right now. They are prepared for
every outcome as they should be.”  Yesterday, Smith called for the NFL to reveal more of its
financial records to help the players understand the NFL’s
position. Today, Goodell said the league has released enough
information.  “We have to get beyond this negotiating ploy of opening
the books, because that’s all it is,” Goodell said. “The
players have more than sufficient information to understand why
the economics of this deal does not work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  Dallas  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  