-- Pimco’s Gross Says Focus on Headline Inflation Data: Tom Keene
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2011-02-04T16:21:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/gross-says-focus-on-headline-inflation-data-to-monitor-prices-tom-keene.html
Surging demand for commodities from
emerging markets should prompt investors to focus on the Labor
Department’s main measure of inflation to gauge price increases,
according to Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross .  Most economists concentrate on the so-called core inflation
data, which strips out price changes from food and energy,
because commodity prices are volatile and tend to revert to the
mean, Gross, the manager of world’s biggest bond fund, said in a
radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene .  “To focus on the core as opposed to the headline would
neglect the fact that emerging market countries have
significantly higher demands not just for oil, not just for
energy but also for food and commodity-related products,” Gross
said from Pimco’s headquarters in  Newport Beach ,  California .
“The mean reversion that Fed theorists expects may not occur. I
would focus on the headline going forward.”  The cost of living in the U.S. climbed more than forecast
in December, led by higher fuel and food prices, while other
goods and services showed the smallest annual gain on record.
The  consumer price index  rose 0.5 percent, more than the 0.4
percent median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News, Labor Department figures showed Jan. 14. The core rate
rose 0.1 percent, in line with the median projection.  Investment managers are incorrectly measuring future
inflation expectations, Gross wrote in his monthly investment
outlook released on Pimco’s website Feb. 2. Because of so-called
easy monetary policies in developed countries, combined with
larger debt loads and increasing inflation expectations,
investors in developed market sovereign debt are taking a
“haircut,” he said.  Employment  This will continue as the  Federal Reserve  is unlikely to
raise interest rates for at least 12 months because the  U.S.
economy  isn’t generating enough growth to lower unemployment,
Gross said today. The central bank would probably like to see
the economy adding at least 200,000 jobs a month before
considering rate increases, he said.  The U.S. jobless rate unexpectedly fell in January to the
lowest level since April 2009, while payrolls rose less than
forecast, depressed by winter storms.  Unemployment declined to 9 percent last month from 9.4
percent in December, the Labor Department said today in  Washington . Employment rose by 36,000 workers, the smallest gain
in four months, after a 121,000 rise in December that was larger
than initially reported. Payrolls were projected to climb
146,000, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey.  ‘Higher Growth’  Holdings of Treasuries and U.K. gilts should be cut because
of the unattractive returns from real yields, and investors
should invest in emerging market countries with strong balance
sheets, growth and the potential for currency appreciation, said
Gross, who founded Pimco and serves as co-chief investment
officer with Chief Executive Officer Mohamed El-Erian.  “Investors need to focus less on duration and move money
outside the U.S. and euro zone to emerging markets where there
is higher growth and higher  interest rates ,” Gross said.  Sovereign and corporate debt in emerging-market countries
with higher real interest rates, wider credit spreads and strong
balance sheets are more attractive, he said. That will offer
more return as well as protection from dollar depreciation as
U.S policy makers run up record deficits at the expense of
economic growth, Gross wrote.  Total Return Fund  Gross cut the proportion of U.S. government and related
securities in the Total Return Fund he manages to 22 percent of
assets in December from 30 percent in November, according to a
report placed on the company’s website on Jan. 14. He raised
holdings of mortgage debt in December to 45 percent, the highest
level since July 2009, from 43 percent as prices of  government
securities  fell.  The $239 billion Total Return Fund posted a 7.07 percent
gain in the past year, beating 82 percent of its peers,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It has lost 0.08
percent in the past month. Pimco is a unit of Munich-based
insurer  Allianz SE .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  