-- Gyllenhaal Falls Hard for Husband in ‘Three Sisters’: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2011-02-05T05:01:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/gyllenhaal-falls-hard-for-husband-in-three-sisters-review.html
That jolly threesome the Prozorov
sisters are back, unlucky in love, unhappy in the provinces and
longing to return to Moscow.  This latest revival of Chekhov’s comedy of manor, “Three
Sisters,” is led by Maggie Gyllenhaal and her husband, Peter Sarsgaard. She is Masha, the snotty sister; he, Virshinin, the
virile army officer who represents all that Masha’s Caspar
Milquetoast of a husband isn’t. Virshinin doesn’t so much sweep
Masha off her feet as sweep the cuckolded Kulygin (Paul Lazar)
under the rug, at least until the lieutenant colonel’s battalion
is transferred to the Polish front.  Stranded in stasis with Masha are the eldest, Olga (Jessica Hecht), a spinster teacher and Irina (Juliet Rylance), the
youngest, vowing not to settle for Baron Tuzenbach (Ebon Moss-
Bachrach), whose passion she cannot requite.  Their violin-playing brother Andrey’s   Josh Hamilton )
gambling debts have put the family at the mercy of his wife
Natasha (Marin Ireland), who seems to have parachuted into their
genteel habitation from planet Vulgarville.  I wish I could take all this lachrymosity as seriously as
the estimable director, Austin Pendleton. And I’d wholeheartedly
blame Chekhov himself (the deck is awfully stacked) had I not
seen productions of “Three Sisters” that were less starry but
less stagy, too, and which had the spark of life that is mostly
absent at New York’s  Classic Stage Company .  Hi, Andy  The disconnect is compounded by Paul Schmidt’s coarse,
anachronistic translation (Natasha calls her husband Andy and
her babies darlin’).  Gyllenhaal can’t lift Masha’s mean digs above bitchiness;
at times she comes across as being too inside a joke we’re not
privy to. Sarsgaard, on the other hand, finds an appealing
balance in Virshinin’s mix of self-importance and vulnerability.
Hecht brings a relievedly light touch to the unrelievedly whiny
Olga. Rylance has moments of grace as the torn kid sister. Did
Hamilton’s Andrey wander in from the Think Coffee shop around
the corner?  They’ve been given an elegant setting by Walt Spangler that
relies heavily on mirrors with patina and a huge central dining
table, melancholically lit by Keith Parham. The sisters’ demure
gowns and the rest of the fine costumes are by Marco Piemontese.  To experience just how powerful the play can be, look to
the Anfisa of Roberta Maxwell (and, to an only slightly lesser
extent, Louis Zorich’s avuncular doctor). She is the aging
servant lurking throughout Chekhov’s theater works, pricking the
conscience. Maxwell, who has been creating indelible women on  New York  stages for more than three decades, need only shuffle a
few feet and widen her bottomless eyes to convey Anfisa’s
squelched dreams. Rating: **  Through March 6 at 136 E. 13th St., New York. Information:
+1-212--352-3101;  http://www.classicstage.org .  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 