-- Russia's Central Bank Will `Act Decisively' to Meet 2011 Inflation Target
-- B y   P a u l   A b e l s k y   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2011-02-04T17:20:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/ignatiev-says-russia-closely-monitoring-faster-price-growth.html
  Russia ’s central bank will “act
decisively” to keep inflation from exceeding its forecast this
year after higher global food costs pushed consumer price growth
to its fastest in more than a year.  Consumer prices in January increased an annual 9.6 percent,
the most in 15 months, the  Federal Statistics Service  said
today, above Bank Rossii’s 2011 target of 6 percent to 7
percent.  “We’ll act decisively to meet the forecast” and it’s
“entirely possible” that the bank will lift  interest rates  and  reserve requirements , Chairman Sergey Ignatiev said today in  Frankfurt  during a seminar hosted by the  European Central Bank .  Policy makers around the world are struggling to balance
accelerating inflation, driven by food and fuel prices, with a
nascent economic recovery. World food prices surged to a record
last month on higher dairy, sugar and cereal costs, the  United
Nations  said yesterday.  Prices for fruit and vegetables in Russia were 51 percent
higher in January than a year earlier, the statistics service
said. Cereals and beans rose an annual 70 percent, while sugar
was 22 percent more expensive.  “Importing” Inflation  Ignatiev said there was a risk of “importing” inflation
through higher commodity costs, including for oil and metals.
Prices will continue to rise for the next two or three months,
he said, and food-price growth will have a negative effect
“right through mid-summer.”  “While inflation is worrying us at the central bank more
and more each month, it’s still largely linked with fast growth
of food prices, which is a result of extremely unfavorable
weather conditions and poor harvest,” he said.  Increased revenue for the federal budget from higher raw-
materials prices can be used to reduce an expected deficit and
replenish the government’s Reserve Fund, Ignatiev said.  Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin said Feb. 2 that the deficit
might fall to less than 3 percent of gross domestic product this
year, compared with a shortfall of 3.9 percent in 2010.  Brent
crude  for March delivery, which underpins the price for Russia’s
Urals blend, fell to as low as $99.87 today after rising this
week to the highest level since October 2008.  “Inflation is the highest risk factor for the Russian
economy in the new year,” Vladimir Tikhomirov, chief economist
at Moscow-based Otkritie Financial Corp., wrote today in a
research note. With food accounting for about 40 percent of the
consumer basket, “any continued upside drive in global food
prices is likely to lead to a rapid acceleration in Russia’s
domestic prices,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Abelsky in Moscow at 
 pabelsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in  London  at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net . 