-- Lilly Ties Employees Cash Bonuses to the Success of New Drug Development
-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 2011-02-05T00:39:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/lilly-ties-employees-cash-bonuses-to-the-success-of-new-drug-development.html
  Eli Lilly & Co ., facing generic
competition to its top-selling drug Zyprexa this year, said it
will tie cash bonuses for employees partly to the success of
medicines the drugmaker is developing as it seeks new products.  The Indianapolis-based company altered its bonus system to
focus on “this critical part of our strategy,” said Mark Taylor, a Lilly spokesman. Full-time employees will gain bonuses
as drugs move into the final stage of clinical testing or when
they win regulatory approval, Lilly reported today in a
regulatory filing.  Lilly has sustained setbacks in the past year as it tried
to bring products to market. In January, the U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration ’s advisory panels said Lilly’s Amyvid test for  Alzheimer’s disease  and its Solpura treatment for cystic
fibrosis weren’t ready for approval. In October, the agency
delayed clearance of the long-acting diabetes medicine, Bydureon
from Lilly and San Diego-based Amylin.  “Advancing our drug pipeline is a critical part of our
strategy,” Taylor said in a telephone interview. “This gives
additional incentive to support that strategy.”  Besides obstacles bringing drugs to market, Lilly’s top-
selling antipsychotic drug Zyprexa goes off patent this year.
Patents are scheduled to expire on drugs accountable for 65
percent of the company’s revenue in the next three years.  Lilly’s price-earnings ratio for the past year, a measure
of prospects for growth, is 7.4, lower than 95 percent of its
industry peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Lilly shares fell 10 cents to $35.53 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange Composite trading. The stock gained 2.5
percent in the past 12 months.  Stock-based compensation restricted to management won’t be
tied to drug development. This pay-for-performance system will
continue to be linked to increases in earnings per share, Taylor
said. Chief Executive Officer John Leichleiter’s $1.5 million
salary in 2010 is unchanged in 2011, Taylor said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pat Wechsler in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  