-- Indonesia Raises Main Rate for First Time Since 2008
-- B y   W i d y a   U t a m i   a n d   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2011-02-04T09:16:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/indonesia-unexpectedly-raises-its-benchmark-rate-for-first-time-since-2008.html
  Indonesia ’s central bank unexpectedly
raised its benchmark interest rate for the first time in more
than two years after inflation climbed to a 21-month high.  The central bank increased its  reference rate  by a quarter
percentage point, to 6.75 percent, Deputy Governor Halim Alamsyah told reporters today in Jakarta. The move, the first
since October 2008, was predicted by only six of 22 economists.
The rest forecast the measure to be kept unchanged at the lowest
level since its introduction in July 2005.  The rupiah, Asia’s third-worst performing currency in the
past year, climbed toward a four-week high after Indonesia
joined Asian nations from  India  to  South Korea  in increasing
rates. Indonesia may have more room to boost rates even at the
risk of attracting more currency inflows as the rupiah has risen
only 3.5 percent in the past 12 months, less than a third of the
gain in Malaysian and Singapore currencies.  “Bank Indonesia has correctly addressed that it is
important to act now,” said  Vishnu Varathan , a Singapore-based
economist at  Capital Economics  (Asia) Pte. “Investors
capitulating from the asset markets on fears Bank Indonesia is
caught behind the curve will find assurance that it is acting to
curb inflation.”  Rupiah Gains  The rupiah rose 0.2 percent to 9,005 per dollar as of 2:46
p.m. in Jakarta, from 9,025 when local financial markets were
last open on Feb. 2. The  Jakarta Composite Index  rose 0.4
percent. It has slid 7.3 percent from its Dec. 9 record high as
investors were concerned the central bank has fallen behind
regional peers in boosting rates to slow inflation.  The  Reserve Bank  of India on Jan. 25 raised rates for the
seventh time in a year, boosting its repurchase rate by a
quarter-point to 6.5 percent.  Thailand ’s central bank increased
the one-day bond repurchase rate on Jan. 12 for the fourth time
since the start of July, lifting it to 2.25 percent. The Bank of  Korea  raised its benchmark on Jan. 13 for the third time since
the global financial crisis.  Consumer prices in Indonesia, Southeast  Asia ’s largest
economy, rose 7.02 percent in January from a year earlier, the
most since April 2009.  Core inflation  was 4.18 percent in
January, easing from 4.28 percent the previous month.  Inflation Expectations  Bank Indonesia’s decision today is aimed at curbing
inflation expectations, which are being stoked by volatile food
prices and an increase in global commodity costs including oil,
Governor Darmin Nasution said in a statement.  The bank maintained its inflation forecast for 2011 in the
range of 4 percent and 6 percent and said the economy will
probably expand by 6 percent to 6.5 percent during the year,
according to the statement.  With Indonesia’s rate increase today, the  Philippines  is
the only major Southeast Asian economies using interest rate as
a policy tool that hasn’t raised its rate.  Among the steps the central bank had taken so far to
control inflation was to order lenders to set aside 5 percent of
their total foreign-exchange holdings as reserves from March
this year, from 1 percent currently. In January,  Bank Indonesia 
reintroduced a 30 percent cap on lenders’ short-term overseas
borrowing to minimize the risk of sudden capital outflows.  Inflation erodes the spending power of the poor. The  World
Bank  estimates 29 percent of Indonesians earn less than $2 a
day.  Growth Target  The central bank refrained from raising rates since 2008 as
President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono targeted annual average
economic growth of 6.6 percent through the remainder of his term
ending in 2014. Companies from PT Bank Pan Indonesia to AirAsia
Bhd. are counting on rising demand in the world’s fourth-most
populous nation to boost their businesses.  Indonesia’s economy grew 6.3 percent last quarter from a
year earlier, accelerating from a 5.8 percent rate in the three
months through September, according to the median estimate of 12
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The government will
release fourth-quarter economic data on Feb. 7.  Indonesian stocks’ decline is a buying opportunity as the
rural-based economy will benefit from rising commodity prices,
Wilianto Ie, an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc., said last
month. Concerns about inflation getting out of hand due to
“policy slippage” are unfounded and the slump in Indonesia
stocks is a “window of opportunity,” said Mun Hon Tham, an
analyst at Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  