-- Iowa Awaits Palin's Decision as Farming Economy Outperforms Rest of U.S.
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2011-02-04T15:14:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/iowa-awaits-sarah-palin-s-decision-as-farm-economy-beats-rest-of-u-s-.html
The  Iowa  caucuses have long drawn
criticism for taking place in a state too rural, old and white
to winnow U.S. presidential aspirants.  The contest tentatively set a year from now -- Feb. 6, 2012
-- will present another anomaly for President Barack Obama’s
would-be Republican rivals: less economic distress in Iowa than
in the nation as a whole.  Buoyed by rising farm commodity and land prices, Iowa had
an  unemployment rate  in December of 6.3 percent, well below the
national rate of 9 percent in January. That will shape the
candidates’ sales pitches, potentially putting more emphasis on
the federal deficit than sluggish job growth that has dominated
the national debate for two years.  “There is a great apprehension about the federal debt,”
newly elected Governor Terry Branstad, 64, said in an interview
at his capitol office in Des Moines, Iowa. “It was the premier
issue in 2010. Will it be in 2012? I think so.”  Among the four states scheduled to start the Republican
nominating season, only  New Hampshire  has a lower unemployment
rate, at 5.5 percent. Republicans are likely to confront greater
economic anxiety in  South Carolina  and  Nevada , where the
December rates were 10.7 percent and 14.5 percent.  Iowa’s relatively robust economy can be traced in part to
corn and soybean prices at levels not seen in more than two
years.  Iowa  is the biggest U.S. producer of the two commodities.  Farm Country Strong  “Agriculture is phenomenally strong,” Branstad said.
“This can’t last, I’m sure, but agriculture is still a very
important part of the Iowa economy.”  Climbing agriculture prices helped push farmland values in
Iowa up 16 percent in 2010, an Iowa State University  survey 
showed in December. The value of Iowa farmland is 93 percent
higher than it was in 2004, according to the report.  Farmland is selling for as much as $8,500 an acre, said
Neil Harl, an agricultural economist at  Iowa State University  in
Ames.  “It’s just been an incredible run-up,” he said in a
telephone interview.  This isn’t all that sets Iowa, traditionally an early judge
of presidential candidates, apart from the nation. Iowa’s
population is 90 percent non-Hispanic White, compared with 65
percent nationwide, according to 2009 U.S.  Census Bureau
estimates . Almost 15 percent of the state’s population is 65 or
older, while nationally it’s 12.9 percent.  Slow Start  Campaigning for the caucuses is getting off to a slower
start this election cycle, as candidates seek to save money and
await a better indication of whether Sarah Palin will run.  Palin, 46, the 2008 Republican vice presidential nominee
and a former Alaska governor, has hinted at a possible bid.  “You kind of get mixed  signals ,” Branstad said. “She
kind of marches to her own drummer, so I don’t have a good read
on it.”  Even if Palin enters the race, Branstad predicts a “wide-
open” contest. He doesn’t plan to endorse any candidate early
on, he said, although he is “reserving the right” to do so
later in the process closer to the caucuses.  “I don’t think we have anybody I would necessarily
consider a frontrunner,” he said. “I suppose you’d have to say
Huckabee, but I’m not sure he’s going to run.”  Former Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee won Iowa’s
Republican caucuses in 2008, before dropping out of the
nomination fight in March of that year. He has said he won’t
make a decision on the 2012 race for several months and, like
Palin, must also weigh whether he is willing to lose income from
a  Fox News Channel  contract. Both Huckabee and Palin play
starring roles on the cable television network.  No Formal Declarations  No candidates have formally declared for 2012. Four years
ago, 17 Republican and Democratic candidates seeking the White
House had signaled their candidacies or set up exploratory
committees by the end of January 2007, including Obama and then-
Senator  Hillary Clinton  of  New York .  “There’s no question that things are starting at a slower
pace than four years ago,”  Matt Strawn , chairman of the state’s  Republican Party , said in an interview.  Strawn attributes the slower pace to a variety of factors,
including the “fluidity of the field” and the potential entry
of candidates like Huckabee and former Massachusetts Governor
Mitt Romney who don’t need to work as hard at introducing
themselves because they campaigned in the state four years ago.  Another unanswered question is how big a role the Tea Party
movement, which helped Republicans gain 63 seats in the U.S.
House in November’s election, will play.  Unwritten Story  “I think that’s a story yet to be written,” Strawn said.
“There is no question that there are newly engaged activists in
the state.”  Strawn cautioned Palin against waiting too long to decide
or campaigning in Iowa for only a few months.  “Iowa caucus-goers expect to see candidates here early and
often, and they expect the chance to interact with them,” he
said.  Palin was last in Iowa on Nov. 27 for a stop on her latest
book tour. Before that, she visited in September, when she gave
the keynote address at the  Iowa Republican Party’s  largest
annual fundraiser.  Other potential candidates making regular visits to Iowa to
gauge support include former  Minnesota  Governor Tim Pawlenty and
former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of  Georgia .  Additional Republicans who have given signals that they’re
considering bids include Governor Mitch Daniels of  Indiana ,
Mississippi Governor  Haley Barbour , Senator John Thune of  South
Dakota  and former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman, who has told the
White House he plans to step down from his post as ambassador to  China  in the next few months.  Unemployment Biggest Concern  The federal deficit ranked second to unemployment as the
most commonly picked issue of importance among six presented in
a Bloomberg National Poll of likely voters conducted Oct. 7-10.  Pawlenty stressed the deficit in a Jan. 30 speech to a
 Waukee Area Chamber of Commerce  banquet in suburban  Des Moines 
attended by about 200 people.  “We can’t spend more than we take in,” he said, drawing
laughter and applause as he paused between each word for
emphasis. “It is not that hard.”  The lack of a clear Republican frontrunner has encouraged
lesser-known politicians, including Tea Party favorite U.S.
Representative  Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota, to position
themselves for potential runs. Palin and Bachmann could hurt
each other if they both enter the race, Branstad said.  “One or the other could do really well,” he said. “But
if they’re both here, they kind of draw from the same well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Des Moines at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  in  Washington  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 