-- IPhone Public Distrusts Dial-Up Government: Michael Waldman
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W a l d m a n
-- 2011-02-04T02:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/iphone-public-distrusts-dial-up-government-michael-waldman.html
Americans have argued over
government’s role since the days when politicians wore powdered
wigs. Lately this great debate seemed more like a monologue.
Conservatives denounce government with zest. But on this most
basic of questions, President  Barack Obama  and the Democrats
have been silent.  That began to change with Obama’s State of the Union last
week, which sketched an appealing picture of government as an
engine of economic innovation. He must do more to set out his
vision, and persuade the public to go along.  We have always been ambivalent about what Thomas Paine
called “a necessary evil.” But throughout the 20th century,
liberals, if nothing else, stood for the idea that a strong
government could be a force for good.  In his landmark 1932 Commonwealth Club  speech ,  Franklin D. Roosevelt  explained, “New conditions impose new requirements
upon government” -- signaling a sharp expansion of  Washington ’s
role, through the Depression, World War II and the  Cold War .
Americans embraced this change from our traditionally distant
central government.  Modern conservatism was born, in large measure, to
repudiate that view. The tone was set in the first minutes of  Ronald Reagan ’s term, when he declared in his inaugural address,
“government is not the solution to our problem, government is
the problem.”  Threat to Freedom  These assaults bit because they came at a time when
government seemed unable to meet basic tests, from curbing crime
to managing its own finances. It drew from many strands --
southern whites resentful of civil-rights laws, business people
chafing at environmental rules -- but all cast strong central
government as a threat to freedom.  Through the years, there have been hiccups and hesitations.  George W. Bush  neither ran nor governed as a foe of big
government. But by the 2010 election, the  Republican Party  made
a consistent, confident public argument. As Representative  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin  said in his televised response to Obama’s
State of the Union speech, “We are at a moment, where if
government’s growth is left unchecked and unchallenged,
America’s best century will be considered our past century.”  All this even though government in the U.S. still is much
smaller than elsewhere. The federal government accounts for
about a quarter of the economy. (That doesn’t count state and
local levels.) In many other democracies, the public sector can
account for as much as half of spending.  Shift Against Government  Nonetheless, the public largely buys the Republican
critique. Numerous polls show a sharp shift against government.  Democrats take refuge in the famous study in 1967 by
political scientists Hadley Cantril and Lloyd Free, who found
that Americans loathe big government yet crave its benefits. We
are “operationally liberal” but “ideologically
conservative.” So liberal politicians pound on specific
programs. Here are some pharmaceuticals, seniors; there are some
loans, students; let’s hope it adds up to majority. As for
whether these goodies cohere into a vision of what government
does, well, Democrats long have hoped nobody notices.  Obama tries hard to avoid the issue of government’s size
and role. He used his inaugural address to chide “childish”
politics, instead of spelling out an explicit political vision.
When he had the public’s undivided attention, he never delivered
an Oval Office address to explain the stimulus. (It was  Richard Nixon , not Obama, who declared, “I am now Keynesian.”)  Democrat Strategy  He talked about government’s role occasionally, such as in
last year’s University of Michigan  commencement address  -- but
rarely in more high-profile settings. Absent an overarching
vision, the Democrats were reduced to pelting their midterm foes
with nit-picky attack ads that were easily deflected.  Perhaps electoral losses forced a reassessment. This year,
State of the Union listeners could discern a defense of
government’s proper role. Obama didn’t merely envision a market
that creates and distributes wealth, with government stretching
a safety net to catch those who fall. Rather, government can
help build the conditions for prosperity, as it did from canals
in the 1800s to the Internet in the 1990s. As has been noted,
this was an approach that echoed Henry Clay and  Abraham Lincoln .
Obama cannily made budget cutting seem old-fashioned, even
defeatist in the struggle for international economic gain.  But he must do much more. The next test will come in May,
when Congress has to authorize an increase in the debt ceiling.
The Republicans in Congress will try to force cuts. Obama must
go beyond tagging individual programs to make the larger point
about government’s role.  Obama’s Pledge  But Obama’s address hinted at something even more basic:
Democrats must show they seek a more effective government, not a
bigger one. Last week, Obama pledged a plan to reorganize
overlapping agencies.  That’s nice. But fiddling with organization charts can be a
placebo instead of actually taking action. Mock  Al Gore ’s
reinventing government drive in the 1990s at your peril: It
recognized that government had far to go to adopt basic
corporate customer-service principles. Citizens who live in an
iPhone economy will never trust a dial-up government.  Over coming months, Democrats must show they can grapple
with the big questions. What is government’s function? What’s
the ideal divide between the public sector and a robust private
economy? When we want a social good -- say, clean air -- is the
best approach command-and-control regulation, economic
incentives, direct spending? How can we tap social media to
modernize the public sector?  Until Democrats can argue for their vision of the role of
government with self-confident gusto, they will never earn the
trust of the public, nor should they.    Michael Waldman , former head speechwriter for President  Bill Clinton , is executive director of the Brennan Center for
Justice at  New York University School of Law  and the author of
“My Fellow Americans.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Michael.Waldman.comments@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  