-- IPhone App for Doctors to View Medical Scans is First Cleared by U.S. FDA
-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 2011-02-04T20:29:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/iphone-app-for-doctors-to-view-medical-scans-is-first-cleared-by-u-s-fda.html
A mobile medical-imaging application
won approval from U.S. regulators to let doctors examine
pictures from patient scans on  Apple Inc .’s iPhone and iPad.  The technology, known as Mobile MIM, is the first portable-
device application for common medical images cleared by the  Food
and Drug Administration , the agency said today in a statement.
The uses are for computerized tomography, magnetic resonance
imaging and positron emission tomography scans.  The application, made by closely held MIM Software Inc. in  Cleveland , enables hospitals and doctors’ offices to send images
to physicians’ mobile devices over a secure network. The
software isn’t intended to replace full workstations, and should
only be used when a doctor doesn’t have access to the larger
equipment, the FDA said.  “This important mobile technology provides physicians with
the ability to immediately view images and make diagnoses
without having to be back at the workstation or wait for film,”
William Maisel, chief scientist and deputy director for science
at the FDA’s Center for Devices and Radiological Health, said in
the statement.  Mobile MIM should be available in Apple’s U.S. App Store
next week, the Cleveland-based company said today on its
 website . The application is available in more than 30 countries
including  Australia , the U.K. and  Hong Kong .  The iPhone, Apple’s biggest-selling product, accounted for
39 percent of the Cupertino, California-based company’s $26.7
billion in revenue for the quarter ended Dec. 25. Sales of the
iPad, the world’s best selling tablet computer, comprised 17
percent of revenue. The company has sold more than 15 million
iPads since its introduction in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale in New York at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  