-- Iran Aseman Airlines Seeks to Buy Used Airbus Planes as Sanctions Bite
-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 2011-02-04T00:01:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/iranian-carrier-seeks-to-buy-used-airbus-jets-as-sanctions-bite.html
  Iran  Aseman Airlines said it’s in
negotiations to buy six used Airbus SAS A320 jetliners from an
undisclosed seller to renew its fleet and improve safety in a
country where sanctions prohibit the purchase of new aircraft.  The 150-seat planes will replace aging Fokker 100s, Ahmad
Khalili, general director of support at the airline’s technical
department, said in an interview, adding that details are
confidential because of the “sensitivity” of the issue.  “It’s not easy,” Khalili said at an aerospace industry
show in Dubai. “The Americans will not allow aircraft exports
directly to Iran, so we always have to find ways around it.”  Carriers including Iran Air have struggled to keep planes
flying amid international sanctions outlawing the purchase of
spare parts and new jetliners from Airbus and  Boeing Co . The
cost of buying planes is high in the absence of access to
foreign banks and export credit agencies, so that Iran Aseman
will be forced to pay for the A320s in cash, Khalili said.  Iran Aseman , which operates 30 domestic routes and seven
international ones, has 19 Dutch-built Fokker 100s manufactured
between 1990 and 1995, according to aviation consultant Ascend.  Western Planes  The fleet also includes four Boeing 727s, six ATR-72
turboprops from Toulouse, France-based Avions de Transport
Regional and two Falcon 20 jets built by Dassault Aviation SA,
which is also French, according to the carrier’s website.  Repair and overhaul is performed at the company’s own
facility in Iran, and it also has approval for maintenance of
Boeing 727 planes registered in the  United Arab Emirates  from
that country’s civil aviation authority, the website says.  Sanctions, imposed by the  United Nations Security Council 
over  Iran’s nuclear program , may be contributing to crashes,
said  Paul Hayes , director of safety at London-based Ascend,
which estimates that carriers from the country suffered six
fatal incidents from 1.2 million flights in the past decade.  On Jan. 10, a Boeing 727 belonging to national carrier Iran
Air crashed near the northern city of Orumiyeh, killing at least
77 people. Iran’s parliament dismissed Roads and Transportation
Minister Hamid Behbahani Feb. 1 after blaming him for failing to
improve road and air safety, state-run news agencies reported.  “The accident rate in Iran is poor compared with other
developed countries,” Hayes said. “I assume sanctions are
causing problems with maintaining and replacing aircraft.”  The U.S. and its allies accuse Iran of seeking to develop
atomic weapons under cover of a nuclear-power program. Iran
rejects the charge and says it needs the technology to secure
energy for its growing population.  American measures were intensified in July to target
foreign suppliers of  aviation fuel  and other refined oil
products to Iran and block access to the U.S. financial system
for banks doing business with the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamara Walid in Dubai at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  