-- Istanbul Favorite European City for Property, PwC Survey Says
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2011-02-04T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/istanbul-favorite-european-city-for-property-pwc-survey-says.html
Istanbul is the best place in Europe
to buy or develop property as  Turkey ’s economic growth contrasts
with declines across much of the region, a survey of 600 real
estate professionals by  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  showed.  Turkey’s largest city was first among 27 European cities in
terms of where respondents are likely to make purchases, the
survey showed. It was fifth last year. Istanbul was also first
for the best development prospects and second after Munich for
returns from existing properties.  The Turkish economy grew at an annual rate of 5.5 percent
in the third quarter of last year as record-low  interest rates 
boosted  consumer spending  and investment. The buoyant economy
offers prospects of rising rents and property values,
contrasting with a sluggish outlook for  Europe ’s economies as
governments slash spending to reduce debt.  Istanbul “is one of the few markets where investors remain
confident in the city rather than in their own ability to buck
the general trend through superior real estate investment
skills,” PwC said.  Difficulties in obtaining loans to refinance debt or fund
new projects continue to hurt the property industry across
Europe and investment is going to the highest quality buildings
in cities where tenant demand will lift rents, according to the
report released today by the London-based arm of PwC, the
world’s largest accounting firm.  Best and Worst  London and Munich joined Istanbul in the top three of the
rankings. Dublin ranked lowest in all three categories and  Athens  the next lowest, reflecting concerns about spiraling
budget deficits in Ireland and  Greece  that forced both countries
to accept financial rescue packages from the European Union and
the  International Monetary Fund .  “There is a broad consensus that there is little positive
to be said about Dublin or Athens,” the report said. “The
broad concern about the state of the European economy remains a
key theme.”  Respondents to the PwC survey expressed “cautious
optimism” about Germany. Last month, a poll of unlisted real
estate fund manages by Amsterdam-based Inrev showed that  Germany 
was their most-favored country because of its export-led
economic recovery.  Berlin, Frankfurt and Hamburg also featured alongside
Munich in the top 10 cities for returns from existing buildings,
acquisitions and property development prospects. London was
third for the performance of existing property and second for
new acquisitions and development.  “With capital so risk-averse, winning cities like  London 
and Paris will continue to absorb investment as the only places
where tenant demand will be robust,” PwC said.  London led the world last year for investments in existing
buildings, with a total of $23.9 billion commercial real estate
sales, according to data compiled by New York-based Real Capital
Analytics Inc. A weaker pound and prospects for rising rents
enhanced the U.K. capital’s status as a refuge for investors,
the data research company said.  PwC compiled the study with the  Urban Land Institute  by
surveying the continent’s largest property investors, companies,
brokers, asset managers, banks and analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 