-- Asian Stocks Advance to Two-Week High on Steel Takeover, Improving Profits
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2011-02-04T10:26:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/japanese-australian-shares-advance-on-u-s-jobs-earnings-steel-takeover.html
Asian stocks rose, driving the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index to a two-week high, as Japanese company
earnings improved and  Nippon Steel Corp . announced a takeover.  Nippon Steel, Japan’s largest steelmaker, surged 9.1
percent, and its merger partner,  Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd .,
soared 16 percent. Softbank Corp., the exclusive provider of
Apple Inc.’s iPhone in Japan, gained 3.6 percent after raising
its profit forecast. QBE Insurance Group Ltd. advanced 7.4
percent in Sydney after agreeing to distribute U.S. insurance
products.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the country’s No. 1
lender by market value, climbed 0.9 percent in Sydney after the
central bank increased its forecast for economic growth.  “The economic cycle is starting to look normal again even
if the background is far from normal,” said  Shane Oliver , head
of investment strategy in Sydney at AMP Capital Investors Ltd.,
which manages about $93 billion. “You’ve got a combination of
good U.S. economic data coming out, plus some pretty fantastic
earnings news. It reinforces the view that we’re on to a more
sustainable recovery.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 0.6 percent to 139.87 as
of 7:20 p.m. in Tokyo, on course for its highest close since Jan.
19. It has climbed 1.7 percent this week, headed to its sharpest
weekly increase this year, as Japanese reports of improving
corporate earnings overcame concern related to anti-government
protests in  Egypt .  Stock markets in  China ,  Hong Kong ,  South Korea  and  Singapore  shut mid-week for the Lunar New Year holiday, and
exchanges in Taiwan and Vietnam have been closed all week.  Japan, Australia  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average gained 1.1 percent.  New
Zealand ’s NZX 50 Index rose 0.5 percent.  Thailand ’s SET Index
increased 0.4 percent.  India ’s Sensitive Index plunged 2.4
percent after Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said inflation poses
a “serious threat” to the nation’s growth momentum.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index climbed 0.9 percent as the  Reserve Bank  of Australia said the nation’s economy will expand
more than previously forecast this year as flood rebuilding
accelerates in the second half. Cyclone Yasi, which tore through  Australia ’s northeast coast yesterday, was downgraded to a
tropical low by the weather bureau last night.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. The index climbed 0.2 percent yesterday in  New
York  as retailers gained after sales exceeded projections and
jobless claims decreased by more than forecast.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index increased 1 percent this year
to yesterday, compared with gains of 3.9 percent for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 3.3 percent for the Stoxx Europe
600 Index. Stocks in the Asian benchmark were valued at 14.1
times estimated earnings on average at the last close, compared
with 13.6 times for the S&P 500 and 11.3 times for the Stoxx 600.  Steelmaker Mergers  Iron and steel companies in Japan’s Topix index surged the
most among the gauge’s 33 industry groups. Nippon Steel soared
9.1 percent to 313 yen, the biggest contributor to the Topix,
and Sumitomo Metal Industries jumped 16 percent to 224 yen.
Japan’s No. 1 and No. 3 steelmakers plan to combine to cut costs
in what may be the country’s largest non-bank takeover, aimed at
gaining leverage over raw-material purchases and pricing of the
metal as costs soar.  JFE Holdings Inc., Japan’s second-largest steelmaker, Kobe
Steel Ltd., the fourth-biggest, and Nisshin Steel Co. all rose
more than 2 percent.  The proposed merger will benefit “the wider steel industry
by helping to increase pricing and margins,” Rajeev Das and
Nana Hasegawa, analysts at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said in a
report today. “We expect steel equities in general to perform
well on the news.”  QBE, Softbank  QBE, Australia’s largest insurer by market value, gained 7.4
percent to A$18.20 in Sydney, its biggest increase since January
2008 and the biggest support to the country’s benchmark index.
The company will pay Bank of America Corp. about $700 million
and unspecified future payments for Balboa Insurance Co.’s
business, and assume $1.2 billion of its insurance liabilities.  Softbank rose 3.6 percent to 2,976 yen and was the biggest
boost to the  Nikkei 225 . The company raised its annual profit
forecast by 20 percent to 600 billion yen ($7.3 billion), citing
demand for the touch-screen iPhone handset.  Other companies that reported increased earnings or boosted
forecasts include Hitachi Ltd., Japan’s third-largest company by
revenue, Shinsei Bank Ltd. a lender partly owned by J.
Christopher Flowers, and Sapporo Holdings Ltd., Japan’s fourth-
biggest brewer. All advanced at least 1.9 percent.  Earnings, Forecasts  About 220 of the 1,019 companies in the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index were scheduled to release earnings statements this week.
Of the 331 that have reported results since Jan. 1 for the
latest quarter, 134 have exceeded analysts’ estimates, while 99
have missed them, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Company earnings are improving this year, beating the
market consensus,” said  Ayako Sera , a strategist in Tokyo at
Sumitomo Trust & Banking Co., which manages about $331 billion.  Commonwealth Bank gained 0.9 percent to A$53.06.  Australia
& New Zealand Banking Group Ltd ., the nation’s third-largest
lender by market value, rose 1 percent to A$24.19.  The Reserve Bank raised its forecast for 2011 economic
growth in Australia to 4.25 percent, from a November prediction
of 3.75 percent. Torrential rain in Queensland damaged about
30,000 properties, shut coal mines, cut rail lines and ruined
crops. A cyclone also slammed into the nation’s east coast
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Shani Raja in Sydney at   sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicolas Johnson at   nicojohnson@bloomberg.net . 