-- Japanese Volcano on Kyushu Erupts as Government Prepares Evacuation Plan
-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s   a n d   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 2011-02-04T06:26:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/japan-volcano-erupts-as-government-prepares-evacuation-plan.html
Shinmoedake, a volcano on Japan’s
southern island of Kyushu, erupted again as the government said
it will send officials to the area to help local authorities
create an evacuation plan.  The 1,421-meter (4,660 feet) volcano in the Kirishima
range erupted at 9:42 a.m. local time following three eruptions
yesterday, sending a plume of ash and smoke as high as 3,000
meters, a branch division of the agency said in a  statement .
The plume was drifting east-northeast toward Miyazaki
Prefecture’s Pacific coastline, the statement said.  The government plans to send a group of natural disaster
officials to the area as early as Feb. 7, Shigeo Ochi, an
official at the Cabinet Office, said in a telephone interview
today. Japan’s Meteorological Agency is maintaining a  level 3
alert  for Shinmoedake, indicating an eruption “may seriously
affect places near residential areas.” Evacuations are carried
out when the alert reaches the maximum 5.  “In the case of a major eruption, if the central and
local governments have an evacuation plan ready, that can
ensure there’s a smooth evacuation with no loss of life,” he
said.  Japan Airlines Corp., All Nippon Airways Co. and  Skymark
Airlines Inc ., Japan’s biggest discount carrier, said flights
to the region may be delayed or diverted because of the ash
plume.  Shinmoedake erupted for the first time in 52 years on Jan.
27 and has erupted more than 10 times since, according to the
JMA. The agency  says  a lava dome in the crater is growing and
may spill out, creating a  lava flow . Authorities are
maintaining a restricted zone of 4 kilometers (2.5 miles)
around the volcano.  Most Active Volcano  The weather agency is also maintaining a level 3 alert for
Sakurajima, 45 kilometers (28 miles) to the southwest. The
volcano is among Japan’s most active, with 1,026 volcanic
incidents in 2010, the most since at least 1982, according to
Japan’s weather agency.  Shinmoedake was the setting for villain Ernst Blofeld’s
volcano headquarters in the 1967 James Bond movie ‘You Only
Live Twice,’ featuring  Sean Connery  in the title role,
according to the  Internet Movie Database .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net ;
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 