-- JPMorgan May Seek $778 Million From Alabama County Over Suits
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2011-02-04T20:31:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/jpmorgan-may-seek-778-million-from-alabama-county-over-suits.html
  JPMorgan Chase & Co . said it will
seek at least $778 million from Jefferson County,  Alabama , if it
loses lawsuits brought by companies that insured the county’s
defaulted sewer debt.  JPMorgan, which underwrote $3 billion of the debt sales and
sold the county derivatives to lower its borrowing costs, is
fighting claims filed by Syncora Guarantee Inc. and a unit of  Assured Guaranty Ltd . in New York state court.  The bond insurers accuse the bank of concealing payments of
$3 million to friends of county commissioners in order to win
business. They also said the bank didn’t disclose an engineering
report saying the sewer system wouldn’t be able to pay its debt.  “JPMorgan demands that Jefferson County agree to indemnify
and hold JPMorgan harmless for any losses or costs, including
attorney’s fees and expenses sustained by JPMorgan,” wrote Mary Beth Forshaw, an attorney at Simpson Thatcher & Bartlett LLP
representing JPMorgan, in a letter to the County Commission.  The existence of the letter, dated Jan. 31, was previously
reported by the Birmingham News.  Justin Perras , a JPMorgan
spokesman, declined to comment.  Syncora and Assured took JPMorgan to court after Jefferson
County’s refinancing of sewer debt issued in 2002 and 2003
collapsed during the credit crisis and almost bankrupted the
county. Syncora insured about $1.2 billion of the sewer debt and
a $165 million surety policy. Assured provided almost $400
million in coverage.  In response to a lawsuit from Jefferson County, the bank
said the county took on too much debt and knew the financing had
risks. Payments to friends of the commissioners were directed by
the county officials and disclosed in letters to them, according
to the bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 