-- Companies Quadruple Loan Refinancings to Cut Costs Amid Rally
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2011-02-04T13:48:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/junk-rated-companies-quadruple-loan-refinancings-to-cut-costs-amid-rally.html
Speculative-grade companies seeking
to cut borrowing costs more than quadrupled the amount of loans
they are raising as the debt rallied to a 39-month peak.  At least 12 issuers returned to the market this week to
raise $16.5 billion of loans, up from $3.7 billion last week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, as the S&P/LSTA U.S.
Leveraged Loan 100 Index rose 0.08 cent to 96.07 cents on the
dollar, the highest since Nov. 8, 2007.  Investor demand for high-risk, high-yield loans is climbing
as the debt outpaces junk bond returns, enabling companies led
by Reynolds Wrap maker Reynolds Group Holdings Inc., 3G
Capital’s Burger King Holdings Inc. and Dunkin’ Brands Inc. to
slash borrowing costs on debt raised for leveraged buyouts and
dividend payments.  Credit Suisse Group AG  and Barclays Plc are
leading banks that started lender talks on $19 billion of loans
since Jan. 28, with 87 percent of the proceeds intended to
refinance debt, Bloomberg data show.  “Without M&A action heating up refinancing is what issuers
and banks are going to do, it’s competitive and if you don’t do
it the next person will and it keeps resetting what’s acceptable
in the market,” said Kevin Booth, portfolio manager of RS
Investments’ floating-rate fund with $656 million of assets as
of Dec. 31. “It’s the nature of the beast, the shoe is on the
other foot now, which was not the case in late 2009 and first
half of 2010.”  Buyout volume in the U.S., which triggered record leveraged
loan issuance as the boom peaked in 2007 at $620.8 billion, rose
by 2.6 times to $211.5 billion in 2010 from the previous year,
according to Bloomberg data. During January there were $10.8
billion of pending or completed LBOs, compared with $3.6 billion
last year and $37.1 billion four years ago.  Loans v. Bonds  The S&P/LSTA 100, which tracks the 100 largest dollar-
denominated first-lien leveraged loans, gained 2.59 percent this
year while junk-bonds returned 2.43 percent, according to the
Bank of America Merrill Lynch US High Yield Master II Index.
High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s.  Retail loan funds received $897 million this week,
extending record inflows of $3.4 billion in January, according
to Deutsche Bank AG reports, citing Lipper FMI.  “A surging deluge of cash has exacerbated the technical
imbalance between supply and demand,” said Jeff Cohen, managing
director of loan capital markets at Credit Suisse in  New York .
“Not surprisingly, issuers are capitalizing on that, and
lenders are helpless to push back.”  Borrowing Costs Drop  Borrowing costs declined this week, with issuers offering
an average interest rate of 4.08 percentage points more than the
London interbank offered rate and a 1.35 percent floor on the
lending benchmark, Bloomberg data show. That compares with an
average spread of 4.43 percentage points over Libor, with a 1.43
percent minimum on the rate banks charge to lend to each other.  The so-called original-issue discount, which reduces
proceeds for the borrower and boosts the yield for investors,
also narrowed this week to 99.6 cents on the dollar from 99.25
cents, according to Bloomberg data.  Reynolds, owned by  New Zealand ’s richest man,  Graeme Hart ,
cut pricing yesterday on a $2.325 billion  term loan  after
proposing to issue it with a higher interest rate earlier this
week, according to a person familiar with the negotiations.  The Auckland-based company reduced the interest rate by
0.25 percentage point to 3.25 percentage points more than Libor
and lowered the floor on the lending benchmark to 1 percent from
1.5 percent, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the terms are private.  Initiating Lender Talks  Reynolds will issue the loan at par, as are the remaining
11 borrowers that are raising money to refinance debt this week.  Burger King, taken private for $4 billion in October,
Interactive Data Corp., acquired by  Silver Lake  and Warburg
Pincus LLC in July, Madison Dearborn Partners LLC-owned
TransUnion Corp. and  Phillips-Van Heusen Corp ., the apparel
company that bought Tommy Hilfiger BV in May, kicked off
refinancing transactions Jan. 31, with all seeking to cut costs
on debt used for takeovers.  CCM Merger Inc., the owner and operator of MotorCity Casino
Hotel in downtown  Detroit , followed the next day with a $635
million loan financing while MultiPlan Inc., the health-care
cost-management company bought by BC Partners Ltd. and Silver
Lake in August, Las Vegas-based Global Cash Access Inc., Tomkins
Plc, the auto-parts maker bought by the Canada Pension Plan
Investment Board and  Onex Corp . in September, and  TransDigm
Group Inc ., the aircraft-components maker that borrowed to buy
McKechnie Aerospace Holdings Inc., started lender talks
yesterday.  ‘Flavor of the Day’  Dunkin’ Brands will host a lender call to refinance a loan
it issued two-and-a-half months ago to repay debt and fund a
dividend to owners Bain Capital LLC,  Carlyle Group  and Thomas H.
Lee Partners LP. Meanwhile Gymboree Corp., bought by Bain in
November, offered the same yield to lenders Feb. 2 to replace
its LBO loan with one that doesn’t have financial maintenance
requirements.  “Until we see M&As pick up refinancings will be the flavor
of the day,” RS Investments’ Booth said yesterday in a
telephone interview from his New York office. “You have
investors waiting for primary deals and there is a cash aneurysm
building up in the market, so when new issues do come they get
snapped up.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 