-- Kenyan Shilling Heads for Biggest Weekly Drop in Six Months on Risk, Egypt
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2011-02-04T10:38:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/kenya-shilling-heads-for-biggest-weekly-drop-in-6-months-on-risk-politics.html
  Kenya ’s shilling headed for the
biggest weekly drop in almost six months to the dollar as unrest
in Egypt continued and heightened  risk aversion  in the euro zone
curbed demand for higher-yielding assets.  The currency of East Africa’s biggest economy depreciated
for a second day, losing 0.2 percent to 81.23 by 1:26 p.m. in
Nairobi, extending its decline this week to 1 percent, the
largest weekly slump since the five days through Aug. 13.  “Increased risk aversion due to the ongoing political
crisis in Egypt and uncertainty in the euro zone has led to a
flight to safety with preference for the greenback,” Cynthia
Mathenge, a dealer at Nairobi-based Commercial Bank of  Africa ,
said in a phone interview today.  Egyptians poured into Cairo’s Tahrir Square before Friday
prayers, raising the prospect of an escalation in violence as
protesters angered by a government crackdown reject overtures
from President  Hosni Mubarak .  Mubarak has replaced ministers, promised free elections and
said he’ll step down in September, without assuaging protesters
who say his 30 years in power must end now. The unrest spread to
other Arab nations and pushed oil prices up.  The euro depreciated the most against the dollar since
November as European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet
said inflation risks are “broadly balanced,” dimming the
prospect of an increase in  interest rates .  Judicial Appointments  The shilling weakened 1.1 percent, the most since June, on
Jan. 31 after Prime Minister  Raila Odinga  rejected President  Mwai Kibaki ’s nomination of key judicial officials, saying he
wasn’t consulted on the matter as required by law.  Kibaki named replacements for the posts of chief justice,
attorney general and director of public prosecution on Jan. 28
while Odinga was attending an African Union summit in
neighboring Ethiopia.  Kenyan parliamentary speaker Kenneth Marende yesterday told
the legislature’s legal and finance committees to decide whether
President Mwai Kibaki’s judicial nominations were
constitutional. The High Court ruled that the Jan. 28
nominations of a new chief justice, attorney general, director
of public prosecutor and budget controller were illegal, Citizen
TV reported yesterday, citing court proceedings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 