-- Koruna May Extend Rally on More ‘Hawkish’ Rate-Setters
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2011-02-04T16:33:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/koruna-may-extend-rally-on-czech-rates-bnp-unicredit-say.html
The koruna may climb to a 2 1/2-year
high after yesterday’s central bank vote on  interest rates 
indicated Czech policy makers are getting closer to raising
borrowing costs, UniCredit SpA and BNP Paribas SA said today.  The Czech currency is likely to appreciate to 23.50 per
euro, which would be its strongest since July 2008, the two
banks wrote in separate reports. The world’s best-performing
currency so far this year with a 4.4 percent gain to the euro
and a 5.7 percent rally against the dollar, was little changed
at 24.007 per euro at 5:02 p.m. in Prague.  The koruna reached 23.933 in intraday trading yesterday,
its strongest since November 2008, after the Czech National Bank
said three out of seven policy makers voted to raise the main
interest rate. In December, the split was 6-1 in favor of
holding rates at record-low 0.75 percent.  “The CNB board meeting turned out quite hawkish,” analyst  Pavel Sobisek  in Prague wrote in the UniCredit report. Sobisek
expects three, 25 basis-point, or 0.25 percentage-point, rate
increases this year, according to the note.  BNP Paribas expects the koruna move “in the coming
weeks,” the biggest French bank said in the note. UniCredit
said it strengthened its projection for the currency, without
giving any time frame for the move.  “The CNB appears to be sharpening its tightening tools,”
BNP wrote in a separate note later today. “This will further
strengthen the koruna.”  GDP, Inflation  The central bank yesterday lifted its forecast for economic
growth this year to 1.6 percent from its November estimate of
1.2 percent, and the Czech gross domestic product will expand 3
percent in 2012, up from a previous forecast of 2.5 percent.  The bank said it expects inflation in the first quarter of
2012 at 2 percent, matching its target, and price growth should
quicken to 2.1 percent in the following three months. The annual
inflation rate rose to 2.3 percent in December, the highest
since March 2009, driven by higher costs of food and gas.  Inflation risks “are balanced overall, although it’s maybe
worth noting that the bank board views pro-inflationary risks as
increasing,” Governor Miroslav Singer said yesterday. The
forecast assumes “stable market interest rates near current
levels, followed by a gradual increase from the end of 2011,”
the central bank said in a separate statement.  The fact that three policy makers voted for a rate increase
“may raise an impression that some board members have fiercely
opposed the staff view on inflation” and stable rates until
towards the end of 2011, Sobisek wrote in the UniCredit note.  Investors in interest-rate derivatives yesterday raised
bets that the central bank will lift funding costs by May.
Three-month forward rate agreements rose 6 basis points, the
most since Nov. 22, to 1.445 percent after the central bank
statement. The FRA was unchanged today in Prague, trading 23
basis points above the three-month  Prague  Interbank Offered
Rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  