-- New Jersey Population Growth Slows as Taxes Push Some to Flee
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2011-02-04T05:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/new-jersey-s-population-stagnates-as-residents-flee-for-lower-tax-states.html
  New Jersey  is among the slow-
population-growth states in the U.S., and an analysis of
economic data shows that it shares a trait with other
Northeastern states losing political power: high income taxes.  New Jersey’s population grew 4.5 percent to 8.79 million
from 2000 to 2010 as its most prosperous areas were little
changed, including Bergen County with a 2.4 percent gain,
according to 2010 Census figures released yesterday in
Washington. New York,  Rhode Island , Vermont and  Maine  had
increases ranging from 0.4 percent to 4.2 percent, less than
half the 9.7 percent national rate.  Those states also have income-tax rates of 6.5 percent or
more, some of the highest in the U.S., according to a report by
the nonpartisan  Tax Foundation  in  Washington . That contrasts
with high-growth states such as Nevada and Texas, which have no
income tax. While taxes aren’t the sole barometer of why people
move to a state, some economists and politicians see a link.  “The census data make it quite clear that high-tax states
aren’t growing compared to other states,”  William Dunkelberg ,
the chief economist of the National Federation of  Independent
Business , who is based in Philadelphia, said. “States are like
firms: Bad management equals loss of capital and people. Good
management attracts capital and people.”  Complicated Calculation  The census data released yesterday provide the first
detailed look at changes in state population demographics since
2000. New Jersey, Virginia, Louisiana, and Mississippi are the
first to receive census figures because their election cycles
are among the earliest in the U.S.  Economists and demographers agree that people choose where
to live based on complex evaluations of job opportunities,
housing costs, education and other considerations.  Some politicians see the tax rate as a way to stoke growth
and signal responsiveness. New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
in September proposed cutting the state’s top income  tax rate 
to 6 percent from 9 percent to boost economic growth.  Last week, he said he plans to try to recruit businesses
from Illinois, which raised its tax rate on Jan. 12, and he
bought full-page ads in  Illinois  newspapers promoting New
Jersey. He’s also promised to control the growth of the highest
property taxes in the U.S.  “What’s going to help economic growth and create private-
sector jobs is to have a stable government, working not by
increasing debt and increasing taxes but by making sure that we
create the necessary business climate that will allow the
private sector to pick some of that money there by the
sidelines right now,” Christie said in a Bloomberg Television
interview Jan. 25.  ‘One Less Voice’  As  Northeastern states lag  behind the South and West in
growth, they lose congressional seats. New Jersey is losing one
seat as a result of the 2010 Census, while New York is losing
two. By contrast,  Texas  is gaining four,  Florida  two and Nevada
one.  “For those in power, any loss of clout is viewed as a
loss,” said  Patrick Murray , a political scientist who heads
the polling institute at Monmouth University in West Long
Branch, New Jersey. “We have one less voice.”  The tax burden has become a key element in growth rates,
said  Charles Lieberman , chief investment officer at Advisors
Capital Management LLC in Hasbrouck Heights, New Jersey. New
Jersey also has the nation’s highest property taxes, according
to the Tax Foundation, a research group.  Good Investment  “The correlation is very impressive” between taxes and
population, said Lieberman, former head of monetary analysis at
the Federal Reserve Bank of  New York . “The tax rates of the 10
slowest-population-growth states are very high,” and “the
fastest growers are among the lowest tax rates.”  Higher state taxes can prove to be a good investment if
they are targeted at improving education, which can draw
employers, said Donald Ratajczak, chief consulting economist at
Morgan Keegan and Co. in Atlanta. He cited  Minnesota  as an
example of a high-tax state that has grown its population by
attracting good-paying jobs.  “If you take taxes and use them for high-quality schools
and safe communities, then people will stay,” he said.  An indicator of economic health by the Philadelphia Fed
shows some other contrasts between no-income-tax states and
high-tax states.  Most states with no income tax did better in all measures
of growth from 2006 to 2010, while most higher-tax states did
worse than the national average.  ‘Long-Term Impact’  State economic indexes compiled by the Philadelphia Fed
for New Jersey, Rhode Island, Maine,  Vermont  and California all
trailed the U.S. average. The indexes include employment, hours
worked in manufacturing, the  unemployment rate , and wages and
salaries. Two states with high tax rates, New York and Iowa,
outperformed the U.S.  “High tax rates do have a long-term impact on the growth
rates,” said Steven Cochrane, director of regional economics
at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania . “But
taxes alone can’t have a strong impact. It is a combination of
taxes, housing costs, school quality, the cost of doing
business, transportation access and quality, and labor force
quality, among other factors.”  ‘Work From Anywhere’    David Kotok , chairman and chief investment officer for
Cumberland Advisors Inc., an investment firm that manages more
than $1.5 billion, moved last year from Vineland, New Jersey,
where he lived and worked, to Sarasota, Florida, which has no
state income tax. The New Jersey income tax is applied
proportionally, which discourages him from spending time at
hotels or eating out while in the state, Kotok said. He spent
fewer than 90 days in the state last year.  “In today’s technological world, more and more people can
do their work from anywhere,” Kotok said. “If the income
leaves, you are not going to be able to tax it.”  A poll  by Monmouth University released in April found 53
percent of New Jersey residents would like to move from the
state at some point, while 43 percent want to stay the rest of
their lives. The number wanting to move compares with 49
percent in 2007. Among those making more than $100,000 a year,
60 percent wanted to move, the poll found.  Share of U.S. Population  New Jersey’s share of the U.S. population has been
declining since 1970, according to an October 2007 study by
Rutgers University researchers. The 2010 Census showed big
cities in the state have low or no growth.  Newark, the most populous city, added 3,500 residents to
reach 277,140, a 1.3 percent increase since the 2000 Census.  Jersey City  grew to 247,597, adding 7,542 residents or 3.1
percent from 2000. Paterson, the third-largest city, lost about
3,000 residents to 146,199, or 2.0 percent over the decade.
Elizabeth grew by 3.7 percent to 124,969 and Edison grew by 2.3
percent to 99,967 in 2010.  The state has suffered a “loss of competitiveness,” said
Joseph J. Seneca, a Rutgers economist. “New Jersey’s
population and economic growth were tepid at best and below the
national rates even in the good years of the past decade,” he
said.  Christie, 48, a first-term Republican, said he sees
opportunity in Illinois because of Governor Pat Quinn’s
decision to increase the income tax to 5 percent from 3 percent
and corporate taxes to 7 percent from 4.8 percent.  Sun Bancorp Inc., based in Vineland, New Jersey, sees
“some slight signs of stabilization in the economic outlook
for New Jersey as a whole,” Chief Executive Officer Thomas X. Geisel said on a Jan. 26 conference call. “The evidence of a
slow economy surrounds us still as we enter 2011.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  