-- Murdoch's News Corp. May Get $200 Million for MySpace, Possible Buyer Says
-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 2011-02-04T22:44:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/news-corp-may-get-200-million-for-sale-of-myspace-mocospace-ceo-says.html
  News Corp ., which paid $580 million
for MySpace in 2005, may end up selling the social network for
$50 million to $200 million, said the chief executive officer of
a potential acquirer.  MocoSpace, a Boston-based social network for mobile
devices, contacted News Corp. after the New York-based company
said Feb. 2 that it is considering strategic options for
MySpace, said Justin Siegel, CEO of MocoSpace. News Corp. has
agreed to talks about a possible sale, he said.  “They are open to discussing it with us,” Siegel said in
an interview. “This may be an opportunity to acquire an asset
that we have the unique skills to manage.”    Chase Carey , News Corp.’s chief operating officer, told
investors two days ago the company is considering “new owners”
for  Beverly Hills , California-based MySpace, which News Corp.
bought in 2005. Many potential buyers have inquired about
MySpace, Carey said at the time, without naming any.  News Corp. spokesman Jack Horner declined to comment.  Prior to Carey’s comments this week, MocoSpace met with
bankers and held talks with News Corp. about working with
MySpace, Siegel said. Since then, Siegel said, he has held
discussions with an executive vice president who reports to  Jonathan Miller , the head of News Corp.’s digital media group.  MySpace is “probably overstaffed,” said Siegel, who
envisions selling the MySpace music business or shutting it
down.  “The crown jewel is the mobile part of that business,”
Siegel said.  Trailing Facebook  Last month, MySpace said it would cut about 500 jobs, or 47
percent of its staff, as part of a broad restructuring. In a
previous round of cuts in June 2009, MySpace reduced staffing by
about 30 percent after advertising sales fell and social-
networking rival  Facebook Inc . surpassed the site in U.S. users.  MocoSpace, founded in 2005, has received  venture capital 
from SoftBank Capital and General Catalyst, and both are
potential sources of capital to fund a purchase, Siegel said.  News Corp., controlled by Chairman and CEO  Rupert Murdoch ,
fell 8 cents to $16.88 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Pulley in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom in New York at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  