-- NFL Union Head DeMaurice Smith Says Players Want a Fair Deal, Not Lockout
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2011-02-04T05:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/nfl-union-head-demaurice-smith-says-players-want-a-fair-deal-not-lockout.html
The executive director of the
 NFL Players Association  said players want negotiations on a
new contract to succeed. At the same time, he said, the
players are preparing for owners to lock them out when the
current labor deal expires in early March.    DeMaurice Smith  said in a pre-Super Bowl news
conference yesterday that National Football League players
want transparency and fairness, and that owners have yet to
demonstrate why they need players to make concessions on
issues including pay.  “All we have ever wanted is a deal that is fair,”
Smith told reporters at the union news conference in
Dallas. “All we’ve wanted is a deal that is good for
former, future and current players. I don’t know how we get
there without the kind of financial transparency that
ensures their interests are shared, mutual and moving
forward.”  NFL owners voted in 2008 to opt out of the labor deal
after this season, saying it didn’t account for costs such
as those of building stadiums. Talks have included topics
such as what share of revenue players should get, expanding
the season to 18 games from 16, a rookie salary cap and
health care.  Jeff Pash, the NFL’s chief negotiator, called any idea
that the owners want a lockout “nonsensical.”  Negotiations are scheduled to resume in the  Dallas 
area tomorrow, the day before the NFL title game.  Smith said the Players Association may be willing to
abandon its status as a union and sue in the event of a
lockout, arguing the NFL’s 32 teams are independent
businesses colluding to restrict pay.  Smith said he disagrees with the league’s stance that
teams can still use the franchise tag, preventing a player
from becoming an unrestricted free agent by paying him an
average of the top-five highest salaries at his position.  “If there’s no CBA, the franchise tags will be
meaningless,” he said.  Kevin Mawae, the union’s president, said he’s not
concerned that players will split in a situation that
requires solidarity.  “I represent 1,900 active players and thousands of
former players and we’re a family,” he said. “  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in Dallas at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  