-- Sabol of NFL Films Picks Green Bay Packers to Win Close Super Bowl Game
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2011-02-05T05:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/nfl-films-sabol-predicts-green-bay-to-win-close-super-bowl-on-busted-play.html
The  Green Bay Packers  will win the
Super Bowl, defeating the Pittsburgh Steelers with an improvised
play, predicted  NFL Films Inc.  President Steve Sabol.  “This game is going to be decided by a busted play,
something that no coach has written up on the blackboard, that’s
never been discussed in the meetings,” said Sabol, who has
filmed every Super Bowl since the first in 1967.  In an interview on “Political Capital With Al Hunt”
airing this weekend on Bloomberg Television, Sabol said he
expects a close contest between the Packers, who with 12 have
the most National Football League championships -- including
three Super Bowls -- and the Steelers, winners of the most Super
Bowls with six.  Sabol also said most insiders believe an NFL labor lockout
will be avoided even if the owners and players don’t meet a
March 3 deadline for a new collective bargaining agreement.  “I don’t think we’ll get an agreement by the deadline in
March,” he said. “I think it could come maybe in June or
July.”  Sabol said that in the Super Bowl, both teams have all the
qualities for the makings of a great game. He said both squads
meet his five criteria: franchise quarterbacks, great
organizations, strong tradition, big fan base that travels and
good defense.  “This might be the first Super Bowl where I’ve been able
to take out my little checklist and check out all five boxes,”
he said.  Among the Best  Sabol said Green Bay quarterback Aaron Rodgers and
Pittsburgh signal-caller  Ben Roethlisberger  are among the best
at improvising when a play goes awry.  “Both of these quarterbacks seem to get better and more
dangerous when the plays break down,” Sabol said. “It’s going
to be a very close Super Bowl. But to me, it’s going to be a
Super Bowl that’s decided by an improvisation.”  The Steelers have won two Super Bowl titles in the last
five years and reached the championship game again this year
despite Roethlisberger’s suspension for the first four games of
the season after being accused of sexually assaulting two women.
Pittsburgh went 3-1 in his absence.  Sabol, 68, correctly picked the Steelers the last time they
were in the Super Bowl, in 2009. Pittsburgh defeated the  Arizona
Cardinals , 27-23.  He hasn’t always been right. Last year, Sabol predicted an
Indianapolis Colts victory over the  New Orleans Saints  that
would pave the way for Peyton Manning’s “coronation” as
“maybe the greatest quarterback of all-time.” The Saints won,
31-17.  Sabol played football at Colorado College in  Colorado
Springs  before joining the  Mount Laurel , New Jersey-based
company founded by his father, Ed Sabol, and succeeded him as
president in 1989.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Jonathan D. Salant  in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 