-- Niger's Issoufou, Oumarou to Contest Presidential Runoff Vote on March 12
-- B y   D j i b r i l   S a i d o u
-- 2011-02-04T16:54:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/niger-s-issoufou-oumarou-to-contest-presidential-runoff-vote-on-march-12.html
Niger , the world’s sixth-biggest
uranium producer, will hold a runoff presidential election next
month after none of the 10 candidates received enough votes for
a first-round win this week.  The March 12 follow-up will pit Mahamadou Issoufou of the
Parti Nigerien pour la Democratie et le Socialisme, who won 36.1
percent of votes, against Seini Oumarou, the candidate of ex-
President Mamadou Tandja’s party, who won 23.2 percent,
Abdourahamane Ghousmane, chairman of the country’s electoral
commission, said in Niamey, the capital, today.  “These elections constitute a significant step towards the
restoration of constitutional order,” regional body  African
Union  said in an e-mailed statement today. Spokesmen for the two
parties said they wouldn’t contest any of the first-round
results.  The ballot is a key part of restoring civilian-led rule
following the February 2010 ouster by the country’s military of
Tandja, who attempted to change the constitution and abolish
presidential  term limits .  Issoufou’s PNDS, which opposes Tandja, won 39 seats. Four
other parties that are against the former leader took 40, giving
the bloc a majority in the 113-seat Parliament, the commission
said. Tandja’s Mouvement National pour la Societe de
Developpement and two allies form the remainder. The vote was
also held Jan. 31.  Issoufou, a 58-year-old French-trained mining engineer, was
a prime minister under Tandja. He formed an alliance on Jan. 25
with Hama Amadou, who came third with 19.8 percent of the vote,
and five other opposition contenders to unite behind a single
candidate in the runoff.  “We are in negotiations” with Amadou and the other parties
for second-round support, Zarama Abba Kiari, spokesman for
Issoufou’s PNDS, said today.  Landlocked Niger is among the world’s poorest countries.
Hard hit by famine in 2009 and 2010, it ranks below only  Zimbabwe  and the Democratic Republic of Congo on the United
Nations’ Human Development Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Djibril Saidou in Niamey via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 