-- TNK-BP Rises on Buyout Report; Rosneft Denies Talks
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2011-02-04T17:01:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/tnk-bp-shares-jump-most-in-3-weeks-on-vedomosti-buyout-report.html
TNK-BP climbed in Moscow trading
following a newspaper report that OAO Rosneft may buy out  BP
Plc ’s partner in its Russian venture. State-run Rosneft denied
the report.  TNK-BP, Russia’s third-largest oil producer, increased 3.6
percent to 87.59 rubles.  Vedomosti reported today that Rosneft or the government may
buy out 50 percent of TNK-BP from AAR, a group representing
Russian billionaire shareholders in the oil venture, for cash or
shares. BP holds the other 50 percent of TNK-BP. Vedomosti cited
four unidentified people for the report.  Rosneft Chief Executive Officer Eduard Khudainatov denied
being in talks to buy AAR’s share in TNK-BP, in a conference
call on fourth-quarter earnings.  Stan Polovets , AAR’s CEO, said
the group had no plans to sell its stake in TNK-BP.  Rosneft management has been told to get ready for the
acquisition, the newspaper said. Rosneft may then buy 1 percent
of TNK-BP shares from BP and gain control of the venture,
Vedomosti said, citing unidentified people close to the Russian
government. Dmitry Peskov, Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s
spokesman, declined to comment on the report, as did BP
spokesman  Vladimir Buyanov .  Such a deal may not make sense for either Rosneft or
Rosneftegaz, the state vehicle that owns most of the company’s
stock, Petr Grishin, an analyst at VTB Capital, said in a
research note.  ‘Contrary’  “It is contrary to the recent steps made by the
government,” Grishin said. “The government announced its
intention to sell its stakes in some companies, such as Rosneft,
VTB, Sberbank and others.”  Russia plans to reduce its stake in Rosneft by almost 25
percent by 2015, according to the Economy Ministry.  Most of
TNK-BP’s assets are too old for the deal to be “value-
accretive” for Rosneft, he said.  BP agreed three weeks ago to swap shares and create an
Arctic offshore venture with Rosneft,  Russia ’s biggest oil
producer. The billionaire partners in TNK-BP challenged the
alliance, saying their shareholders’ agreement gives the venture
the exclusive right to pursue new opportunities for BP in the
country.  AAR, which represents TNK-BP shareholders  Mikhail Fridman ,  German Khan ,  Viktor Vekselberg  and  Len Blavatnik , won an
injunction in a London court on Feb. 1 that will delay BP and
Rosneft’s planned share swap until Feb. 25.  Won’t Interfere  Putin won’t interfere in a conflict between BP Plc and its
billionaire partners in TNK-BP over the Rosneft deal, said
Peskov.  “The premier cannot dictate or express his opinion on
corporate relations,” Peskov said by phone today. “Each party
is defending its economic interests in this conflict.”  “We don’t think it is possible to interfere in this
situation,” Peskov said. “Even though the state is the biggest
shareholder, Rosneft is an international public company that
acts under the rule of the market and corporate relations.”  BP and its partners may reach an agreement out of court,  Arkady Dvorkovich , a presidential adviser to President  Dmitry
Medvedev , said yesterday.  Rosneft expects to close the share swap with BP, which will
give it a 5 percent stake in the London-based producer, in the
first half. BP will get 9.5 percent of the state-run oil
producer in return.  Rosneft, which reported fourth-quarter earnings that beat
estimates today, rose 1.7 percent to 257.13 rubles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  