-- Obama Appeals to Mubarak to Make `Right Decision,' Negotiate Power Change
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 2011-02-05T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/obama-says-egyptian-officials-opposition-have-started-talks-on-transition.html
President  Barack Obama  appealed to
Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  to make “the right decision”
for his country and urged authorities there to negotiate with a
broad representation of the opposition on a transition.  Obama stopped short of calling for Mubarak to immediately
step down. How and when Mubarak leaves office after three
decades in power and who replaces him “is going to be in the
hands of Egyptians,” the president said yesterday at a White
House news conference after a meeting with Canadian Prime
Minister Stephen Harper.  “The key question he should be asking himself is, how do I
leave a legacy behind in which Egypt is able to get through this
transformative period,” Obama said. He said his hope is that
Mubarak “will end up making the right decision.”  With the U.S. keeping up pressure on the Egyptian
government to respond to 11 consecutive days of anti-government
demonstrations, Obama said there already have been “some
discussions” on the transition.  In Cairo yesterday, which protesters called the “day of
departure” for Mubarak, Egyptians crowded into Tahrir Square
after prayer services. Demonstrators vowed they won’t back down.
Anti-government protests also were held in other cities
including Luxor and Alexandria. There were none of the
widespread violent clashes between Mubarak supporters and
demonstrators that marked the previous two days.  Concession  Mubarak has replaced ministers, promised constitutional
reforms and said that he won’t seek re-election in September.
Those concessions haven’t satisfied opponents.  “The only thing that will work is moving an orderly
transition process that begins right now, that engages all the
parties, that leads to democratic practices, free and fair
elections, and representative government that is responsive to
the grievances of the Egyptian people,” Obama, 49, said at the
news conference.  Obama said Mubarak needs to consult his advisers and
“listen to what’s being voiced by the Egyptian people.”  The president said he made those points in two
conversations with the Egyptian leader since the protests began.
He said Mubarak cares about the fate of  Egypt . “He is proud,
but he’s also a patriot,” Obama said.  Mubarak, his government and the opposition must now decide
how to make any transfer of power “effective and lasting and
legitimate,” Obama said.  Hardening Opposition  Obama’s advisers have concluded that the longer Mubarak
remains as Egypt’s head of government, the more strident the
Egyptian political opposition will become, according to
specialists on the region consulted by the administration. The
U.S. is pressing through multiple channels, including the
Egyptian military, for Mubarak to surrender power soon.  The U.S. doesn’t “see a transition going smoothly with
Mubarak as the titular head of state,” said Brian Katulis, a
Mideast specialist at the  Center for American Progress  in  Washington  who is among a number of outsiders who have advised
members of the National Security Council on Egypt this week. The
administration recognizes that the “longer protests go on, the
harder the opposition’s demands will get,” he said.  Concern about disruption to shipments through the  Suez
Canal , which carries about 8 percent of global maritime trade,
sent North Sea Brent above $100 a barrel for the first time
since October 2008 this week.  Brent crude  dropped $1.90 to
$99.86 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London  as
of 5:19 p.m. local time.  Transition Plans  Opposition leaders are discussing a plan for a transition
that would have Mubarak cede his authorities to Egyptian Vice
President  Omar Suleiman  rather than resign. That would avoid
dealing with complex provisions of the current Egyptian
constitution that likely would take months to change.  Two Egyptian rights activists, Hossam Bahgat and Soha
Abdelaty, outlined such a proposal yesterday in a commentary
published in the Washington Post, and Amr Hamzawy, an Egyptian
political scientist who has been with demonstrators in the
streets of Cairo, outlined such a scenario speaking by telephone
to a Jan. 3 forum on Egypt at the  Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace  in Washington.  “It’s obviously important for the opposition that Mubarak
goes,” said Tom Malinowski, Washington director for  Human
Rights Watch , who is in contact with opposition advocates in
Egypt. “How that happens, though, matters a great deal.”  Violence ‘Unacceptable’  Obama yesterday repeated his administration’s condemnation
of the violence has broken out around some of the
demonstrations. He said attacks on peaceful protesters, aid
workers and reporters are “unacceptable.”  “The issues at stake in Egypt will not be resolved through
violence or suppression,” Obama said, adding that he was
“encouraged” by the relative lack of violence during
yesterday’s demonstrations.  At least nine people were killed in the violence during two
days of clashes, the International Committee of the Red Cross
said, citing figures from the Egyptian Ministry of Health. The
ICRC estimates that as many as 2,000 people have been injured
over the past few days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  