-- Obama's Go-Slow Approach at Supreme Court on Health Law May Build Support
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r   a n d   J u s t i n   B l u m
-- 2011-02-04T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/obama-s-go-slow-approach-at-supreme-court-on-health-law-may-build-support.html
A U.S. Supreme Court showdown over
President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul may be inevitable.
His administration is in no rush for the court to get involved.  The Justice Department yesterday said it will oppose
Virginia Attorney General Ken Cuccinelli’s request that the
court immediately review the law, which a federal trial judge
said was unconstitutional. The administration said the high
court should follow its usual practice and first let an appeals
court rule on Cuccinelli’s challenge.  The government’s approach would give it a chance to rack up
lower court victories and perhaps build popular support for the
law before the justices take up the case. It might also set the
stage for a Supreme Court ruling only months before the 2012
presidential election.  “Litigating through the courts of appeals in the normal
course suggests confidence in the government’s case,” said
Christopher J. Wright, a lawyer with Wiltshire & Grannis LLP in
Washington who has argued 28  Supreme Court  cases and isn’t
involved in the health-care fight. “In this particular case, it
may produce unanimous judgments from appeals courts upholding
the law.”  Cuccinelli said in an interview that states and businesses
need to know whether the law is constitutional as soon as
possible in light of rulings in Virginia and Florida against the
administration.  “What really matters now is getting this decided for the
people of this country so we can move on both with health care
reform and just economically knowing how we’re going to have to
operate,” he said.  Unusual Step  The Supreme Court has taken the step being sought by
Cuccinelli, known as certiorari before judgment, only a handful
of times in the past half century and generally only when the
justices are simultaneously considering a related case that has
cleared the appellate level.  The chances of the court agreeing to hear the case in the
face of government opposition are “zero,” said  Carter
Phillips , a lawyer in  Washington  at Sidley Austin LLP who has
argued more than 60 Supreme Court cases.  “I do not think the court will be inclined to decide this
question without the benefit of having the views of at least one
and probably more than one court of appeals on a very difficult
question of constitutional law,” Phillips said.  Justice Department spokeswoman  Tracy Schmaler  said in a
statement that certiorari before judgment would do little to
expedite a final resolution. Cuccinelli said he isn’t explicitly
asking the court to hear the case in its current term, which is
scheduled to end in late June.  Plenty of Time?  The 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Richmond is
scheduled to review the  Virginia  challenge in May -- alongside
an appeal of a different judge’s decision upholding the law. A
ruling by that court this year would give the losing side time
to seek Supreme Court review during its  2011-12 term , which
begins in October.  Schmaler also said the provision at the center of the court
fight -- the requirement that people either buy insurance or pay
a penalty -- doesn’t take effect until 2014.  “There is more than sufficient time for the case to
proceed first in the court of appeals,” Schmaler said in the
statement. She declined to comment further on the government’s
motivations.  Four trial judges around the country have split 2-2 on the
law’s constitutionality. In the Virginia case, U.S. District
Judge Henry Hudson said in December that the insurance mandate
was beyond Congress’s power to regulate interstate commerce.  Democratic Appointees  Several appellate experts said they expect the government
to fare better at the next level.  “They are more likely to get favorable decisions out of
the courts of appeals,” said John Elwood, a partner at Vinson &
Elkins LLP in Washington who served as a law clerk for Justice  Anthony Kennedy , the potential swing vote on the nine-member
Supreme Court.  The  Justice Department  might find an especially receptive
audience at the 4th Circuit. Although that court developed a
reputation as a conservative bastion in the 1990s and 2000s, it
may now lean in the other  direction . Of the court’s 14 active
judges, eight were appointed by Democratic presidents and a
ninth, Roger Gregory, was nominated first by Democratic
President  Bill Clinton  and then by Republican  George W. Bush .  Party affiliation has made the difference so far with
health care. The two trial judges who declared the law
unconstitutional -- Hudson and Florida’s Roger Vinson -- are
both Republican appointees. The judges who upheld the law --
Norman Moon of Virginia and George Caram Steeh of  Michigan  --
were appointed by Democratic presidents.  Popular Support  The two other appeals courts set to consider the law have a
more Republican flavor. The Cincinnati-based 6th Circuit, which
will hear the Michigan case later this year, has four Democratic
and 10 Republican appointees among its active members. The
Atlanta-based 11th Circuit, which would hear an appeal in the  Florida  case, has five Democratic and six Republican selections.  Appeals courts generally assign cases first to a three-
judge panel. Should the government lose at that stage, it could
seek review by the full appeals court, perhaps pushing Supreme
Court involvement back to the 2012-13 term. And should the
government win, it could even urge the Supreme Court not to
review the law at all.  Delay of any length gives the administration time to win
more public support for the law, a factor that some lawyers said
might subtly influence the nine justices. Some provisions have
already taken effect, including a requirement that young adults
be allowed to stay on their parents’ insurance plans until they
turn 26.  ‘Feel of Familiarity’  The administration likely wants “the law to be on the
books as long as possible and have people get used to it,”
Elwood said. “If it has a feel of familiarity to it, the less
likely they are to strike it down.”  Appellate consideration would help the courts home in on
the central legal issues, said Drew S. Days III, a professor at  Yale Law School  and solicitor general under President Bill
Clinton. After appeals court consideration, “all the arguments
have been played out fully and unwound and elaborated in ways
that I think will be helpful to the justices,” Days said.  Cuccinelli said the case involves a “very pure legal
argument” and wouldn’t benefit from appeals court rulings.
“They’re really just kind of a warm-up for the Supreme Court,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net ;  Justin Blum  in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 