-- Obama Goal to Trim Jobless Rate Is Endangered by State, Local Budget Cuts
-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 2011-02-04T16:22:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/obama-goal-to-trim-jobless-rate-is-endangered-by-state-local-budget-cuts.html
President  Barack Obama ’s goal of
driving the unemployment rate below 9 percent this year is
threatened by state and local budget cuts that are likely to
intensify as Federal stimulus money runs out.  Austerity measures may add as much as 0.25 percentage point
to the unemployment rate this year, according to Mark Zandi,
chief economist of Moody’s Analytics Inc.  “This could make the difference between ending 2011 with
unemployment above or below 9 percent,” he said. “There’s no
more serious drag on economic growth than the severe budget
cutbacks at the state and local level.”  Reductions in public payrolls will ripple through the
economy, slicing revenue at companies that rely on government
contracts and depressing spending among those who are thrown out
of work, Zandi said. The result could be the loss of 600,000
jobs in the fiscal year that starts July 1, he said.  State and local governments cut 12,000 workers from
payrolls last month, a Labor Department report showed today.
Total payrolls rose by 36,000, depressed by poor weather, and
the  unemployment rate  dropped to 9 percent from 9.4 percent.  The 18-month recession that began in December 2007 -- the
longest since the 43-month Great Depression -- shrank state and
local tax revenue while inflating demand for services such as
Medicaid and  unemployment insurance . After three years of
struggling to bridge budget gaps, many governors and mayors have
exhausted one-time maneuvers and rainy day funds.  State and local governments fired 260,000 people last year
-- more than General Motors Co.’s entire workforce -- even as
companies expanded payrolls by 1.37 million. Since state and
local government employment peaked in 2008, the 435,000 public-
sector pink slips have exceeded General Electric Co.’s payroll.  Pace Rises  The monthly pace of state and local-government job cuts
will rise to 25,000 to 30,000 in the second half of this year
from the 2010 average of 22,000, predicts economist  Dean Baker 
of the Washington-based Center for Economic Policy Research, who
warned in 2002 of a national housing bubble.  The cuts make it harder to push the unemployment rate below
9 percent, Baker said. The White House predicted in its July
2010 mid-session budget review that the rate would fall to 8.7
percent by the fourth quarter of 2011.  Unemployment will average 9.3% this year, according to the
median forecast of 65 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Federal Reserve policy makers’ central projections range from
8.9% to 9.1% for 2011.  Sal Guatieri, senior economist at BMO Capital Markets in
Toronto, says job cuts along with higher local taxes and
spending cuts could add a half point or more to the unemployment
rate.  Waning Stimulus  Federal stimulus funding that has helped plug state and
municipal budget shortfalls will shrink to $6 billion in the
fiscal year starting July 1 from $59 billion this year,
according to the  Center on Budget and Policy Priorities  in
Washington, a non-profit research group.  “The federal government has made clear they’re not going
to come in and bail out the states or paper over the problems,
nor should they,” New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  told
Bloomberg News Jan. 25. “It’s time for us to get our house in
order.”  New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  this week proposed firing up
to 9,800 state workers to close a $10 billion budget shortfall.  New York  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  warned Feb. 1 that planned cuts
in state aid would force the firings of “thousands” of
teachers and other city employees.  Elsewhere, the Texas state senate is considering a budget
proposal that would eliminate 8,167 jobs. In  Iowa , Governor
Terry Branstad said Jan. 24 that 1,500 state workers could lose
their jobs. Massachusetts Governor  Deval Patrick  has proposed
axing 900 positions on top of 5,900 already eliminated since
2008.  Police Officer  Fired employees spread collateral economic damage as they
cut back on restaurant meals and other expenses.  Raymond Wiggins Jr., 32, lost his $48,500 job as a police
officer in Pontiac,  Michigan  the day after Thanksgiving. The 10-
year veteran and his wife, Sangeya, turned down the thermostat
to 70 degrees from their customary 75 degrees. They’ve cut back
to basic cable and spent sparingly on Christmas presents for
their five-year-old son and three-year-old daughter.  Weekly family dinners at restaurants such as Outback
Steakhouse, operated by Tampa, Florida-based OSI Restaurant
Partners Inc., are now monthly treats -- if they happen at all.  “You have to look at everything you’re doing,” Wiggins
said.  Spending by state and local governments in 2010 totaled
$1.79 trillion, or 12 percent of gross domestic product -- more
than federal spending or fixed investment. Adjusted for
inflation, state and local government expenditures were down
1.3% from 2009, according to the  Bureau of Economic Analysis .  Constitutional Requirements  Since the recession’s 2007 onset, state governments have
closed total deficits of $430 billion with spending cuts,
withdrawals from reserves, tax increases and federal aid. Every
state except  Vermont  is constitutionally required to balance its
budget.  States face an estimated $140 billion gap between the cost
of providing required services and expected  tax revenue  in the
fiscal year that begins July 1, according to the Center on
Budget and Policy Priorities.  “There’s going to be a huge drag from this sector,” says
Don Coxe, chairman of Coxe Advisors in  Chicago , an investment
advisory firm.  Some economists, including Andrew Tilton at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. in New York, are more sanguine. Tilton told clients
in a Dec. 17 note that state and local retrenchment represents a
“modest fiscal drag” on the recovery through 2012.  Coxe, who has managed money since 1972, says most analysts
are overlooking the risks posed by the public sector’s financial
plight. Battles between local governments and unions will
depress  consumer confidence .  “There will be weeks and weeks of ugliness and
resentment,” he said. “All of that is not good for GDP.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lynch in  Washington  at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  