-- Ice Grips Houston Under Storm Forecast to Turn Toward New York Tomorrow
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2011-02-04T20:19:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/houston-gripped-by-ice-under-winter-storm-forecast-to-turn-toward-new-york.html
Freezing rain, sleet and snow coated
eastern and southern  Texas  today on the heels of a two-day cold
spell, part of a winter storm headed toward the U.S. Northeast
with snow and rain for tomorrow, forecasters said.  The Houston area received one-tenth of an inch to a
quarter-inch of ice, said Matt Moreland, a  National Weather
Service  meteorologist in nearby Dickinson. At least 100 traffic
accidents were reported in the southeastern Texas city today,
prompting officials to close ice-coated freeways, the Houston
Chronicle  reported .    Dallas  and Fort Worth, to the north, were blanketed by as
much as 6 inches (15 centimeters) of snow, according to
AccuWeather Inc. in  State College ,  Pennsylvania . Another night
of temperatures in the teens and 20s was forecast.  “Temperatures are below freezing, skies will clear out
this evening and that will really let things bottom out
tonight,” Moreland said. “We’re concerned about refreezing on
the roadways.”  Earlier this week, a giant winter storm across the northern
U.S. grounded about 13,000 flights and pounded  Chicago  with wind
gusts of 70 miles per hour (113 kilometers per hour) and 20
inches of snow.  Southern Cold  Behind that storm, a blast of frigid air swept from  Canada 
into the southern U.S., driving temperatures to 20 degrees to 30
degrees below normal.  The  Electric Reliability Council of Texas , which operates
the state’s grid, ordered rotating outages to help power
generators cope with demand. New Mexico Governor Susana Martinez
declared a state of emergency because of natural-gas shortages,
which were reported across the Southwest today as demand rose
and power outages disrupted transmission and production.  As of 2:30 p.m., 2,133 flights in the U.S. had been
scrubbed for today, with the heaviest cancellations at Houston’s
Bush Intercontinental Airport and Dallas  Fort Worth 
International Airport, according to  FlightAware , an airline
traffic tracking service.  Moreland said Houston will start warming up tomorrow.
Temperatures in the Dallas area should be in the mid-40s
Fahrenheit (about 7.2 Celsius) for the National Football League
Super Bowl on Feb. 6 between the Pittsburgh Steelers and the  Green Bay Packers .  Bound for Northeast  The same system that dropped ice and snow on Texas is now
headed for the mid-Atlantic states and the Northeast.  “This would be the same one that will come northeastward
on Friday night into Saturday and spread some rain and snow in
the mid-Atlantic and the Northeast as well,” said Dan
Pydynowski, a senior meteorologist at AccuWeather.  Light snow and sleet will probably greet New Yorkers early
tomorrow, although it will change to rain by noon, said Jim
Connolly, a National Weather Service meteorologist in  Upton, New
York . Areas north and west of the city may get more ice and “a
little bit more snow,” he said.  “It isn’t a big system,” Connolly said. “There might be
a coating of snow as the storm pulls away tomorrow night.”  A winter weather advisory is in place from 4 a.m. to 10
p.m. tomorrow for northern  New Jersey , eastern Pennsylvania and
the Hudson River valley just north of  New York City . From 1 to 4
inches of snow and 0.1 inch of ice may fall on the area,
according to the advisory.  “Roads conditions will become slippery by Saturday
morning,” the advisory said. “Caution is urged while driving
from late tonight into Saturday morning.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  