-- Lloyd’s Insurers’ Profits May Drop 37% on New Zealand Earthquake
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2011-02-04T09:31:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/lloyd-s-insurers-profits-may-drop-37-on-new-zealand-chilean-earthquakes.html
Lloyd’s of London’s three biggest
insurers,  Amlin Plc ,  Hiscox Ltd . and  Catlin Group Ltd ., may post
declines in annual pretax profit of at least 37 percent after
earthquakes in  Chile  and  New Zealand  eroded profits from a year
without losses from a major U.S. hurricane.  “It’s unusual in that it was quite a bad year for insured
losses even though the U.S. hurricane season was benign,” said
Thomas Dorner, a London-based analyst at Oriel Securities Ltd.
and the top-ranked non-life insurance analyst according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. “The first half of the year was among
the most costly in history, and there were further attritional
losses in the second.”  Lloyd’s insurers have sought to write more policies outside
the U.S. to cut potential losses from the North Atlantic
hurricane season after  Hurricane Katrina  and Hurricane Ike
erased profit in 2005 and 2008. February’s earthquake in Chile
and September’s in New Zealand cost insurers worldwide a
combined $14 billion, according to company estimates. Amlin,
Hiscox and Catlin’s losses from the quakes totaled about $700
million.  Chile’s 8.8 magnitude earthquake in February 2010, which
killed 520 people, cost insurers about $8 billion, making it the
eighth most  expensive natural disaster  on record and the most
costly outside the U.S., according to  Munich Re , the world’s
biggest reinsurer.  New Zealand  Amlin and Catlin both raised their loss estimates for New
Zealand’s earthquake, which damaged more than 100,000 homes in
and around Christchurch, the country’s second-largest city.  BP Plc’s Deepwater Horizon spill in the  Gulf of Mexico  in
April cost the three insurers a further $70 million, according
to company estimates. The Deepwater Horizon oil rig explosion,
which killed 11 people in April, will cost insurers between $4
billion and $6 billion, according to New York-based research
firm  Towers Watson & Co.   Lloyd’s insurers, which insured the rig owned by Transocean
Ltd., will pay as much as $600 million in claims, Chief
Executive Officer Richard Ward said in July. The majority of the
clean-up costs are being paid by London-based BP, which operated
the oil well.  Still, losses haven’t been big enough to prompt insurers to
boost their prices. Rates fell 7.5 percent in 2010, according to
 Guy Carpenter & Co.  The London-based broker said “high levels
of industry surplus” capital will cause rates to drop further
this year.  Beazley Earnings  After paying out $62 billion in claims after Hurricane
Katrina, which devastated  New Orleans  in 2005, insurers raised
capital to take advantage of an anticipated increase in rates.
Since then, competition and a lack of similar losses led U.S
property and casualty rates to drop for 27 consecutive quarters,
according to the  Council of Insurance Agents and Brokers.     Beazley Plc , the fifth-biggest Lloyd’s insurer by market
value, will begin the 2010 reporting season by posting results
on Feb. 8. The insurer is likely to buck the trend of its rivals
because it had lower 2009 earnings relative to its peers,
according to  Nicholas Johnson , a London-based analyst at Numis
Securities Ltd. That year, the insurer recorded losses on trade
credit insurance and posted larger unused catastrophe reserves
that suppressed profits, he said.  Beazley will likely say pretax profit climbed 34 percent to
134 million pounds ($216 million), according to the median
estimate of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Net income may
rise 16 percent to 102 million pounds, they said.  Catlin will publish its 2010 results on Feb. 10, followed
by Hiscox on Feb. 28 and Amlin on March 2. Following is table of
estimates for the four insurers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in  London  at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 