-- Packers to Cover Super Bowl Spread, Says Quant Who's Been Right Since '05
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   S t a n t o n
-- 2011-02-04T05:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/packers-to-cover-spread-says-quant-who-s-been-right-since-05.html
The  Green Bay Packers , 2 1/2-point
favorites to beat the Pittsburgh Steelers in the Super Bowl,
will do better than that, according to an investment manager
whose model has predicted the outcome of the past seven National
Football League championships.  The study by  Analytic Investors LLC  in  Los Angeles  measures
the profitability of bets on NFL teams to win each of their
regular-season games. The firm has made Super Bowl predictions
since 2005 and its model shows that in each championship since
2004, bettors have underestimated the team with the lower
regular-season payout. This year, that’s the Packers.  While Green Bay is favored to win the Feb. 6 championship
game in Arlington,  Texas , the team’s performance relative to
bookmakers’ odds was inferior to the Steelers’ during the
regular season. Bets on the Steelers to win each of their games
outright returned 29 percent, while the same bet on  Green Bay 
returned 1.4 percent, according to Analytic.  “We believe the Packers will be able to cover the 2½-point
spread,” said Brian Haskin, head of investment strategy at
Analytic, a quantitative manager of $7.3 billion, mostly U.S.
equities. “Bettors overvalue teams in the playoffs depending on
how they did in the regular season.”  It’s analogous to investors assuming that a company that
has consistently topped earnings estimates will continue to do
so, Haskin said in a telephone interview. Bettors “aren’t
having as much confidence in the Green Bay Packers as they
should,” he said. “And as for the Steelers, investors are
expecting too much from them.”  Colts Upset  In each of the past seven Super Bowls, the team with the
less-rewarding regular-season performance in the analysis has
either upset the favored team or covered the point spread. Last
year, the  Indianapolis Colts , who returned 39 percent during the
regular season and were 5½-point favorites in the Super Bowl,
lost to the New Orleans Saints 31-17. The Saints returned 13
percent during the regular season.  While Haskin is backing the Packers on the strength of
Analytic’s findings, there is a “sleeper scenario” by which
the Steelers might prevail, he said.    Ben Roethlisberger , the Steelers’ quarterback, was
suspended from the first four games of the regular season after
being accused of sexually assaulting two women. The Steelers,
underdogs in two of the games, won three, returning 75 percent
on bets they’d win all four.  With Roethlisberger, the Steelers went 9-3 yet were upset
twice and trailed expectations. Bet on the team to win every
game lost 45 percent.  “If you used that as the number for the Super Bowl, the
Steelers would be the lower-alpha team and end up being our
favorite for the Super Bowl to cover the spread,” Haskin said.  While the logic may be sound, Haskin said he’ll stick with
the full-season methodology.  “We’re still going with Green Bay to cover,” he said.
“We still think they are the undervalued team in the Super
Bowl.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Stanton in New York at 
 estanton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  