-- Pakistani Cricketers, London Agent to Face Corruption Charges in U.K.
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   S c i n t a
-- 2011-02-04T15:28:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/pakistani-cricketers-london-agent-to-face-corruption-charges-in-u-k-.html
Three Pakistani cricketers and an
agent will be charged with conspiracy to get corrupt payments
and conspiracy to cheat, U.K. prosecutors said today.  Team captain  Salman Butt , 26, and fast bowlers  Mohammad Asif , 28, and  Mohammad Amir , 18, as well as their agent, 35-
year-old Mazhar Majeed, should face charges, Simon Clements,
head of the  Crown Prosecution Service , said in an e-mailed
statement. The players have denied the allegations that they
rigged incidents during a match.  “These charges relate to allegations that Mr. Majeed
accepted money from a third party to arrange for the players to
bowl ‘no balls’ during the team’s fourth Test at Lord’s Cricket
Ground in London,” Clements said.  The  International Cricket Council  suspended the players
after charging them under the sport’s anti-corruption code after
the News of the World newspaper published stories alleging the
players had purposely bowled ‘no balls’ in a gambling ploy. The
ICC panel looking into the incidents may release its decision
tomorrow.  Asif is cooperating with the police, according to an e-
mailed statement from his  London  law firm, Addleshaw Goddard.  The decision to charge the player “is a sad and
disappointing outcome to that investigation and he will now take
some time to consider his response,” the statement said.  Majeed, who is from Croydon, south London, is scheduled to
appear March 17 at Magistrates’ Court in Westminster, and the
three players have been given summonses for the same day,
Clements said. Butt, Asif and Amir agreed to come back to  England  when they returned to  Pakistan  in September.  “Their extradition will be sought should they fail to
return,” Clements said.  A charge of obtaining corrupt payments carries a maximum
sentence of 7 years imprisonment and an unlimited fine, the CPS
said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  