-- Payroll Gains Probably Picked Up as U.S. Economy Grew
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2011-02-04T05:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/payroll-gains-probably-picked-up-as-u-s-economy-accelerated-in-early-2011.html
Payroll gains probably picked up in
January even after accounting for the restraining influence of
winter storms, showing the U.S. recovery is strengthening,
economists said before a report today.  Employment increased by 146,000 workers last month after a
103,000 gain in December, according to the median forecast of 85
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The report may also show
the jobless rate rose to 9.5 percent from 9.4 percent.  Companies like  Ford Motor Co . and  Emerson Electric Co . are
hiring as consumer spending, business investment and exports
climb. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is among policy
makers still concerned the pickup in growth is failing to cut
unemployment quickly, one reason why central bankers have said
they will carry on with a plan to pump another $600 billion into
the economy.  “We’ll see a bit of acceleration in hiring for January and
payrolls will look more encouraging by mid-year,” said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New
York . At the same time, employment conditions are “still pretty
far from where the Fed feels comfortable.”  A storm that spread from the Midwest and the South to  New
England  during the week covered by the Labor Department’s
employer survey likely depressed January numbers as businesses
temporarily closed. Economists at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.
forecast bad weather cut payrolls by 70,000, bringing their
projection for the month to a 125,000 gain.  The Labor Department figures are due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Bloomberg payroll survey forecasts ranged from a
5,000 decrease to a 230,000 gain.  9% Unemployment  The projected increase would mean joblessness has exceeded
9 percent for 21 consecutive months, the longest stretch of
elevated unemployment since monthly records began in 1948.  Investors have driven stock prices higher on signs the
economy is speeding up. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose to
a more than two-year high on Feb. 1, even as concern over the
unrest in  Egypt  mounted.  Economic growth accelerated to a 3.2 percent annual rate in
the fourth quarter of 2010 as  consumer spending  climbed by the
most in more than four years. Emerson, the maker of data-center
equipment and thermostats, plans to boost global employment this
year by about 7,000 workers to meet rising sales.  “We are planning a very strong 2011,” Chief Executive
Officer David Farr said on a Feb. 1 conference call with
investors. “There’s definitely a point in time that we’re going
to have to start bringing people in.”  Sales Jobs  Lowe’s Cos., the second-biggest U.S. home-improvement
retailer, plans to add 8,000 to 10,000 weekend sales positions
to improve staffing at the busiest time of the week. The
Mooresville, North Carolina-based chain also will cut 1,700
middle-management jobs as profit growth trails that of larger
rival Home Depot Inc.  Factory payrolls rose for a second month, today’s report
may show. Manufacturing accelerated in January at the fastest
pace since May 2004, according to the  Institute for Supply
Management , indicating the industry may keep adding workers.  The two largest U.S. automakers are expanding. Dearborn,
Michigan-based Ford plans to hire more than 7,000 workers in the
next two years. Larger rival  General Motors Co ., based in  Detroit , will add a third shift and about 750 jobs to its
assembly plant in Flint,  Michigan .  Employment needs to ramp up to help recoup the loss of 8.4
million jobs as a result of the recession that began in December
2007 and ended in June 2009. For all of 2010, the U.S. added
about 1.1 million jobs. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg in
January projected unemployment will average more than 9 percent
this year.  Bernanke’s View  “Until we see a sustained period of stronger  job creation ,
we cannot consider the recovery to be truly established,” the
Fed’s Bernanke said yesterday in a speech at the  National Press
Club  in Washington. “It will be several years before the  unemployment rate  has returned to a more normal level.”  Gains in private payrolls in 2010 weren’t enough to absorb
new entrants into the  labor force , Bernanke said.  With today’s report, the government will issue revisions to
payroll figures going back to 2006. It will also announce the
annual benchmark update, which aligns the data with corporate
tax records and covers the period from April 2009 to March 2010.
The Labor Department estimated in October that payrolls for the
12 months would be cut by 366,000.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  