-- Poland's Pension Changes May Face Constitutional Hurdle, Voter Hostility
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2011-02-04T16:06:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/poland-s-pension-changes-may-face-constitutional-hurdle-voter-hostility.html
The Polish government’s plan to
revamp the pension system is opposed by almost half of the
country’s voters and might be derailed by a legal review, an
opinion poll and comments from a constitutional judge showed.  The plan, currently being reviewed by trade unions and
employers’ representatives, would cut transfers to private
pension funds by more than two-thirds to 2.3 percent of
employees’ salaries. Such changes to a pension system enrolling
millions of Poles may pose “an enormous constitutional
problem,” Andrzej Rzeplinski, chief justice of the Warsaw-based
Constitutional Tribunal, was quoted today as saying by Reuters.  The government wants the proposed law to take effect on
April 1, as it trims the  budget deficit  to about 6 percent of
gross domestic product this year from 7.9 percent in 2010 to
keep public debt from topping a legal limit that would trigger
mandatory spending cuts. The pension changes should help lower
borrowing needs by about 12 billion zloty ($4.2 billion) this
year, the Finance Ministry estimates.  “There are arguments the law could be sent to the
Constitutional Tribunal,” Irena Woycicka, a minister at the
Office of the President Bronislaw Komorowski, said in Warsaw on
Feb. 1.  Cut Spending  Like other European countries, Poland is faced with finding
ways to cut public spending, which ballooned during the global
crisis, and bring the deficit back to within the European
Union’s limit of 3 percent of GDP.  A survey by the Warsaw-based  Public Opinion Research Center 
today showed 49 percent of adult Poles are against the
government’s pension proposals, while 18 percent are in favor
and 33 percent have no opinion.  The  Constitutional Tribunal , composed of 15 judges elected
by parliament to a nine year-term, can strike down laws that it
rules aren’t in compliance with the constitution. Such
legislation may be referred to the legal body by the president
before it is signed into law, or by government institutions,
lawmakers or the courts after it takes effect.  Rzeplinski told TVN24 today that his comments concerned the
legal difficulties encountered by many countries in changing
pension systems.  “I wasn’t commenting on any specific measure and in fact
said that I wouldn’t do so, as that would require me to recuse
myself,” Rzeplinski was quoted as saying in a  recording  of the
interview on TVN24’s website.  Katarzyna Sokolewicz-Hirszel, a spokeswoman for the
tribunal, declined to comment when contacted by phone today.  ‘Incredibly Controversial’  Conducted from Jan. 5-12 among 989 respondents, the survey
proves “the government has failed to convince Poles that this
plan will be beneficial,” according to Beata Roguska, an
analyst at the center. No margin of error was published for the
survey, which was the first to focus solely on public attitudes
toward the  pension plan .  “The plan has been incredibly controversial,” said
Roguska. “People seem to think the government is thinking above
all about public finances and not about the interests of future
pensioners.”  Andrzej Rzonca, a member of the central bank’s  Monetary
Policy Council , said on Jan. 25 that  Poland  should sell state-
owned assets and cut spending to keep its public debt in check
rather than change the pension system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  