-- $160 Million English Soccer Transfer Inevitable, Premier League Chief Says
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2011-02-04T16:40:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/premier-league-s-scudamore-says-spending-increases-on-players-inevitable-.html
Premier League Chief Executive
Officer Richard Scudamore defended record spending by teams in  England ’s top division and said it is “inevitable” that a
player will be bought for 100 million pounds ($161 million).  Chelsea and Liverpool bought four players for more than 130
million pounds in a single day to take the league’s total outlay
in the midseason recruitment period to 225 million pounds, seven
times the figure it was a year earlier.  The London team broke the U.K. transfer record by paying
Liverpool a reported 50 million pounds for  Fernando Torres . The
Reds used that income to make Newcastle’s Andy Carroll the most
expensive English player of all time and paid Ajax as much as 26
million euros ($35 million) for forward  Luis Suarez .  “Can I see it happening in the future?” Scudamore said
when asked if he thought a 100-million-pound player trade was
possible. “It’s inevitable. I would think that one day it would
happen.”  He said that the proceeds of such a transfer would benefit
several teams. Money could be used by the selling team to buy
other players and “trickle down” across divisions, he said.
Real  Madrid ’s Cristiano Ronaldo became the world’s most
expensive player when he was signed for 80 million pounds from
Manchester United in 2009.  Chelsea’s Russian billionaire owner  Roman Abramovich  spent
more than he had in the last three transfer window’s to capture
Torres and Benfica defender David Luiz for a combined 75 million
pounds. Scudamore said the money paid to Liverpool should be
seen as “inward investment” in the U.K. economy at time when
the country’s finances are strained.  ‘Spending Money’  “I don’t know how we get out of the recession without
spending money,” he said at the Premier League’s headquarters
in  London .  “At the end of the day, if this was any other industry
where a Russian was bringing in 100 million pounds that then got
recycled around, that then allowed Liverpool to spend the money
at Newcastle and then allowed all these other things to happen,
if we were in any other industry we would be going ‘oh, this is
good investment.”    Manchester City , owned by an Abu Dhabi sheikh, has spent
more than any other U.K. team in the past two years and added
striker Edin Dzeko for 24 million pounds from  Germany ’s
Wolfsburg. Rivals relying on bank finances haven’t been as busy
because of increased difficulty raising credit.  Both City and Chelsea, which Abramovich bought in 2003,
trail  Manchester United  and Arsenal, neither of which made a
major signing last month. United still has the majority of the
money it received for Ronaldo.  “We don’t currently have a league table where those with
most money from benefactors are top of the league,” Scudamore
said. The standings aren’t “in perfect correlation with those
who spent the most in the last couple of transfer windows.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in the London newsroom on
  at  tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 