-- Raiffeisen Chief Stepic Banks on Poland After Crisis Marred Ukraine Bet
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2011-02-04T16:36:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/raiffeisen-doubles-assets-in-poland-with-669-million-polbank-acquisition.html
  Raiffeisen Bank International AG ’s
490 million-euro ($669 million) deal to become Poland’s sixth-
biggest lender shows how the financial crisis has refocused
banks’ views on how to pursue growth in emerging  Europe .  The Vienna-based lender, eastern Europe’s third biggest,
will pay 490 million euros, or 1.7 times book value, for a 
70 percent stake in unprofitable Polbank EFG. The first 
acquisition since 2006 will almost double its assets in the 
country and make its Polish unit draw level with the Russian
one, so far the biggest.  Poland has emerged as the place to be for banks in the
former Communist part of Europe, taking over from frontier
markets such as Ukraine or  Kazakhstan  that were targeted until
2007. While countries in the former  Soviet Union  paid for a pre-
crisis credit binge with a severe economic contraction, Poland
escaped the recession and now has the highest loan growth in the
region.  Chief Executive Officer Herbert Stepic was asked “in every
interview, at every conference” before 2008 when the lender
would buy a bank in Kazakhstan, he today told journalists in
Vienna. “Today I’m not unhappy that Raiffeisen didn’t buy one.
One problem child like Ukraine is enough in the crisis.”  ‘No Bargain’  Raiffeisen yesterday said it agreed to buy Greek  EFG
Eurobank Ergasias SA ’s Polish business, which is largely focused
on retail clients, and whose loan book is mostly comprised of
mortgages. It will merge Polbank with its own franchise, which
mostly consists of corporate accounts.  “Buying Polbank makes strategic sense,” Daniele Brupbacher, a banking analyst at UBS AG, wrote in a note to
customers. “Polbank’s retail and small-business-oriented
franchise could be a nice add-on to Raiffeisen’s rather
corporate-banking-focused business.” Still, the price is
“certainly not a bargain,” he said.  Eurobank, based in Athens, put the unit up for sale to
replenish its capital, battered by the Greek debt crisis. In
reaction to the crisis and as doubts about Greek banks mounted,  Poland ’s banking regulator KNF ordered Eurobank to stop growing
its loanbook last year, a restriction Raiffeisen expects to be
lifted now.  Retail loans in Poland grew 14 percent in November,
according to the  National Bank of Poland , the highest rate among
major economies in the region. Valuations are more than twice
the European average with banks listed in the  Warsaw Stock
Exchange ’s WIG Banking Index on average trading at 2.2 times
book value, compared with an average of 0.97 times for banks in
the Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index.  Polish Deals  The price tag for Polbank looked cheap only “at first
glance,” said UBS’s Brupbacher. “Polbank is loss-making and
the rest of the banking sector is generating” return on equity
“in the high teens.”  Poland is one of the few markets in eastern Europe where
bank assets are for sale as some Western lenders pull out to
repair balance sheets or comply with European Union conditions
for state aid. Raiffeisen beat a rival bid by  Intesa Sanpaolo
SpA  in the Polbank auction.  Banco Santander SA,  Spain ’s biggest bank, agreed to buy the
country’s fifth-biggest lender, Bank Zachodni WBK SA, from
Allied Irish Banks Plc for 2.9 billion euros, or 2.8 times book
value, on Sept. 10. Eurobank put Polbank up for sale in July.
Media reports have said KBC Groep NV’s Kredyt Bank SA,
Commerzbank AG’s BRE Bank SA and Banco Comercial Portugues SA’s
Bank Millenium SA may also be sold.  Option to Sell  Eurobank,  Greece ’s second-biggest lender, will hold a 13
percent share after Raiffeisen merges Polbank and its existing
Polish business, Raiffeisen said. It has an option to sell the
stake to Raiffeisen for no less than 175 million euros, while
Raiffeisen has an option to buy it as of March 31, 2016. The
merged group would be the only unlisted bank among Poland’s 10
biggest lenders.  Polbank, started by Eurobank in 2006, had 5.5 billion euros
of assets at the end of September and reported a net loss of 26
million euros in the first nine months of 2010, compared with a
33 million-euro loss a year earlier, according to  Eurobank . The
combined Raiffeisen-Polbank business will have 12 billion euros
in assets, Raiffeisen said.  Raiffeisen expects the integration of the two businesses to
cost 90 million euros in 2012 and 2013, and have annual cost
savings of 60 million euros, or 30 percent of Polbank’s cost
base.  ‘Comfortable’ Capital  Raiffeisen rose 2.2 percent to 43.75 euros in Vienna
trading, its highest since Dec. 2009. Eurobank shares dropped 3
percent to 4.84 euros in  Athens .  Raiffeisen said its core Tier 1 capital will decline 0.6
percentage points to 9.1 percent on the deal, adding that it
felt “comfortable” with this level. The bank counts 2.5
billion euros of partly state-funded participation capital
towards its core Tier 1 capital. Stripping that off leads to a
ratio of 6.3 percent, according to Thomas Stoegner, an analyst
at Macquarie. While participation capital is granted for an
unlimited time, interest payments start rising from 2014.  “The capital deficit -- which increased with the Polbank
acquisition -- continues to be the main negative for
Raiffeisen,” Stoegner said. “In our base case we expect a 1.5
billion euros capital hike for the fourth quarter.”  EFG’s core Tier 1 ratio will rise by 1.1 percentage points
to 9.2 percent, according to Citi estimates.  The acquisition is subject to approval of EU, Greek and
Polish regulators, and to Polbank gaining a banking license in
Poland. It may close in the fourth quarter of this year or in
the first quarter of 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  