-- Real Madrid, Barcelona Cup Final Is Financial Flop for Soccer Powerhouses
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2011-02-04T10:21:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/real-madrid-barcelona-will-lose-money-from-winning-spanish-cup-final.html
The first Spanish Cup final between
Real Madrid and  Barcelona  in 21 years is shaping up to be a
financial flop for the soccer powerhouses.  Real Madrid eliminated Sevilla 3-0 in a two-game semifinal
completed two days ago, when Barcelona ousted Almeria 8-0.  Barcelona and Real, the top two teams in the league, get
about half of Spanish soccer’s annual $875 million television
income, helping make them the world’s biggest clubs by sales.
For the April 20 final, they will get a maximum of 300,000 euros
($409,000) of broadcast revenue each and will have to split
advertising and ticket sales with the national federation and
the venue owner, federation executive Miguel Angel Lopez said in
an interview.  Bonus payments to players may turn it into a money-loser
for the champion, said Jose Maria Gay, who has researched team
finances for European ruling body  UEFA .  “The Spanish Cup is a loss-maker for teams,” Gay, a
Barcelona University accountancy professor, said in an
interview. “It’s only good for their image because there’s a
trophy at stake.”  Barcelona and Real  Madrid  dominate Spanish soccer. The
final will be the sixth time they’ve faced off for the Copa del
Rey, or King’s Cup, since the competition began in 1902. A
neutral venue for the game hasn’t been picked. The stadium owner
gets 20 percent of ticket sales, Lopez said in an interview.  “What makes things worse is whoever wins will have to
spend more on bonuses than” the 1 million-euro prize money,
Esteve Calzada, a former Barcelona team marketing executive,
said. Real and Barcelona will have to make do with boosting
their brand if they win, Calzada added.  TV Contract  Barcelona Vice-President Javier Faus didn’t immediately
return a phone message seeking comment. Real Madrid declined to
comment, citing a policy of not speaking publicly on financial
matters.  Madrid-based Santa Monica Sports S.L., the federation’s
commercial agent, paid 900,000 euros to the organization to
resell the rights to the final at home and abroad, Lopez said.
Real, Barcelona and the federation will split the net income
from the final three ways after the stadium owner gets its cut
of ticket sales, Lopez added.  Last year’s final between Sevilla and  Atletico Madrid  at
Barcelona’s Camp Nou stadium generated 5 million euros in ticket
revenue, Lopez said.  Barcelona has won the trophy a record 25 times, Athletic
Bilbao 23 and Real Madrid 17.  At least winning the cup final would help Real Madrid and
Barcelona keep fans happy and help them to negotiate better
sponsorship deals, said Antonio Martin, director of a sports
management course at the Instituto de Empresa in Madrid.  “Winning the final against your eternal rival can’t be
bad,” Martin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 