-- Reliance Power Gains on UN Carbon Credit Eligibility
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2011-02-04T07:51:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/reliance-power-gains-on-un-carbon-credit-eligibility-for-coal-fired-plant.html
  Reliance Power Ltd ., controlled by
billionaire  Anil Ambani , gained as much as 4.1 percent after the
company said it may earn more than $400 million worth of carbon
credits for an emission-reducing coal plant in  India .  The stock climbed 1.8 percent to 133 rupees at 11:50 a.m.
local time in Mumbai trading. The Bombay Stock Exchange’s
benchmark Sensitive Index declined 1.1 percent.  The  United Nations  registered Reliance Power’s Sasan power
project on Feb. 2 to earn as many as 22.5 million credits in the
next 10 years, Chief Executive Officer J.P. Chalasani said late
yesterday. The company expects to earn 20 billion rupees ($439
million) from selling those credits, he said.  The 4,000-megawatt Sasan project is eligible to earn
credits because it will use advanced technology to lower coal
consumption by 1 million tons a year, preventing 2.24 million
tons of carbon dioxide annually from entering the atmosphere.
One credit is issued for every metric ton of CO2 abated.  UN registration grants eligibility to earn credits. Getting
credits requires an additional verification process to check a
project is saving the amount of emissions it claims. Reliance
Power doesn’t expect the first issuance of credits until after
2013, Chalasani said.  The UN Clean Development Mechanism, the world’s second-
biggest greenhouse gas market, issues tradable credits to
emission-busting projects in  developing countries . CDM Watch, an
environmental group, has criticized the system for subsidizing
projects whose environmental benefits it says are dubious.  UN credits, known as Certified Emission Reductions, can be
sold to countries and companies whose emissions are legally
capped and need to offset their own pollution. A CER for
delivery in December 2011 closed at 11.33 euros ($15.45) a
metric ton yesterday in  London  on the ICE Futures Europe
Exchange. Reliance Power expects to sell its credits for an
average price of 15 euros each, Chalasani said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 