-- Republicans to Seek $35-Billion Cut in Opening Fight Over Budget
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2011-02-04T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/republicans-to-seek-35-billion-cut-in-opening-fight-over-budget.html
House Republicans announced they will
seek $35 billion in 2011 spending cuts in what shapes up as the
first in a series of battles this year with Democrats over the
federal budget.  Agriculture, energy, water, commerce, transportation and
housing programs would face cuts this year of as much as 17
percent as the House Republican majority aims to cut non-
security discretionary spending by $43 billion from last year’s
levels.  Labor, health-care and education programs would shrink by 4
percent, as would foreign aid and international programs.
Congress’s budget would see a 2 percent cut. Defense would grow
by $8 billion, or 2 percent, from 2010 levels while homeland
security funding would be frozen.    Washington ’s spending spree is over,” House Budget
Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican, said in a
statement yesterday. “House Republicans will continue to build
upon this down payment, working to restrain the explosive growth
of government and to help restart America’s engine of economic
growth and  job creation .”  The plan represents a retreat from Republicans’ “Pledge to
America” issued during last year’s midterm election campaign,
which promised to roll back non-security discretionary spending
to 2008 levels. That would have saved $100 billion compared with
what the Obama administration had requested for this fiscal
year, which ends Sept. 30.  Because the fiscal year is almost half over, Republicans
are instead calling for setting spending levels at 2008 levels
for its final seven months. The plan Ryan outlined would still
leave total non-security discretionary spending $40 billion
higher than it was in 2008.  Stopgap Funding  Ryan estimated the cuts would save $74 billion compared
with what President  Barack Obama  had sought. Congress has since
approved a stopgap measure funding the government that set
spending below what Obama proposed; compared with those levels,
were they to be extended through the fiscal year’s end on Sept.
30, the Republicans’ proposed cuts would be $32 billion.  Senate Budget Committee Chairman  Kent Conrad , a North
Dakota Democrat, said the Republicans’ scaled-back plans went
too far, saying policymakers should only make “modest” cuts
this year because the economy remains troubled. He said
lawmakers instead should focus on bigger, longer-term reductions
that wouldn’t take effect until the economy is on a surer
footing.  ‘Tough Choices’  In a statement, White House Budget Director Jack Lew said
“this administration strongly agrees that tough choices must be
made to bring down the deficit,” which “is why the president
proposed a 5-year non-security discretionary freeze.” Still,
Lew said, “we cannot make cuts that undermine our ability to
create jobs, drive innovation and compete in a global economy --
all of which are critical to winning the future.”  Administration officials say the Obama spending freeze
proposal announced last week would save $400 billion over the
next decade. Republicans attacked it as inadequate.  The Republican proposal comes a week after the  Congressional Budget Office  said the deficit this year will
widen to $1.5 trillion  Republicans didn’t say how the cuts would be divided up
among the hundreds of government programs, leaving that to the
House Appropriations Committee to sort out. Appropriations
Chairman Harold Rogers, a Kentucky Republican, yesterday
released instructions to his panel’s 12 subcommittees on how
much in savings each must produce in general areas to meet
Ryan’s numbers.  Floor Vote  Republicans aim to put legislation making the specific cuts
to a floor vote the week of Feb. 14. The changes will be
attached to a continuing resolution funding federal agencies
through the rest of this fiscal year. The current stopgap
measure expires March 4, and without action the government would
shut down.  The battle over the Republican plan will be just one of
this year’s fiscal fights, with separate showdowns looming on
raising the national debt limit as well as Obama’s budget
request for the 2012 fiscal year.  The plan outlined yesterday amounts to a rejection of calls
by the Republican Study Committee, a bloc of self-described
fiscal conservatives, for much deeper cuts. Representative Jim Jordan, an Ohio Republican who heads the RSC, will offer
amendments making additional cuts once the legislation reaches
the House floor, said spokesman Brian Straessle.  Ryan’s Authority  Republicans, aiming to mop up last year’s leftover budget
business, adopted a rule last month allowing Ryan to
unilaterally set the overall discretionary spending levels for
the rest of this fiscal year. His plan would peg total
appropriations at $1.055 trillion, compared with last year’s
$1.091 trillion and the $1.128 trillion the administration had
requested. The government’s total budget, including entitlements
such as Medicare and Social Security, is $3.7 trillion.  Democrats who control the Senate today called upon
Republican leaders in both chambers to explicitly rule out any
shutdown of the government as negotiations on the budget
proceed. “That’s playing with fire,” said Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New York , the chamber’s No. 3 Democrat.  To contact the reporter on this story: Brian Faler in Washington
at   bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Mark Silva at
   msilva34@bloomberg.net  