-- Rogers, BCE Gain After Court Rejects Globalive Ruling
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2011-02-04T22:49:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/rogers-bce-gain-after-court-rejects-ruling-on-globalive-wireless-license.html
  Rogers Communications Inc . and  BCE
Inc .,  Canada ’s largest phone companies, climbed after a Canadian
court overruled the government’s 2009 decision to grant rival
Globalive Communications Corp. a wireless license.  “Improper considerations were fundamental” to Industry
Minister Tony Clement’s overruling of the regulator, Mr. Justice
Roger Hughes said in his ruling. “Therefore the decision of the
governor in council must be quashed,” he said referring to the
legal term for Clement and the government cabinet.  Globalive, backed by Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris ’
Orascom Telecom Holding SAE, was deemed not to meet Canada’s
foreign ownership rules by the country’s telecommunications
regulator in October 2009. That decision was reversed weeks
later by Clement, paving the way for the company to sell mobile
phones to Canadians in December 2009.  Globalive is “very disappointed with this decision,” the
Toronto-based company said today in a statement. “From the
beginning, we have maintained that we are fully compliant with
the rules.”  At the time Clement overruled the Ottawa-based Canadian
Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission, he said
there were differences over the interpretation of whether
foreigners had “effective control” of the company. The CRTC
had ruled that a non-Canadian holds two-thirds of Globalive’s
equity, is the principal source of technical expertise, and
provides it with access to an established trademark.  Examining Options  The company said it is examining its options and doesn’t
“intend to back down,” Globalive Chief Executive Officer
Anthony Lacavera said in the statement.  Justice Hughes said he was deferring when the ruling would
take effect by 45 days. Clement said his government is
considering appealing today’s ruling.  “We are carefully studying the decision and considering
the options, including a possible appeal,” Clement said in a
posting on Twitter that was confirmed by his office.  “This seems to be a very big deal, and potentially quite
positive for the incumbents,” Jonathan Allen, an analyst at  RBC
Capital Markets  in Toronto, said today in a note. He has an
“outperform” rating on BCE and “sector perform” rating on
Rogers.  Rogers climbed 2.1 percent to C$35.82 at 4:15 p.m. in
Toronto Stock Exchange trading. BCE climbed 1 cent to C$36.45,
reversing an earlier decline.  BCE is reviewing the decision and doesn’t have any
immediate comment, said Mark Langton, a spokesman for the
Montreal-based company. Jan Innes, a Rogers spokeswoman,
declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 