-- Rubber Tops 500 Yen to Record as Recovery Boosts Demand Outlook
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2011-02-04T07:36:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/rubber-futures-top-500-yen-a-kilo-for-first-time-extend-rally-to-record.html
Rubber surged to more than 500 yen a
kilogram for the first time as signs the global economy is
improving boosted speculation demand will keep expanding for the
commodity as weather disruptions constrain supplies. The cash
price in  Thailand  also surged to a record.  The July-delivery contract climbed as much as 2.9 percent
to a record 504 yen a kilogram ($6,178 a metric ton) on the
Tokyo Commodity Exchange before settling at 502.9 yen. The 
most-active contract surged 7.2 percent this week, the largest
advance in 13 weeks.  Asian stocks climbed for a fourth day before a report that
economists said will show U.S. employers added the most jobs in
January in three months. Asian companies including Samsung
Electronics Co. and Hyundai Motor Co. boosted earnings last
quarter as economic growth in the U.S. and China spurred
consumers to buy more electronics and cars.  “Optimism about global economic growth spurred investors
to buy industrial commodities,”  Kazuhiko Saito , an analyst at
Tokyo-based broker Fujitomi Co., said today by phone. “Rubber
also advanced on speculation that Chinese buyers may step up
purchases after the New Year holiday.”  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s index of U.S. non-
manufacturing businesses released yesterday showed  service
industries  expanded in January at the fastest pace since August
2005, indicating the economic recovery is broadening.  U.S. nonfarm payrolls climbed by 146,000 in January after
climbing by 103,000 the previous month, according to a Bloomberg
survey before today’s Labor Department report. The jobless rate
rose to 9.5 percent from 9.4 percent, a separate survey showed.  Recovery Signs  “The  U.S. economy  is picking up and starting to show some
pretty consistent signs of recovery, which could spill over to
jobs,” said Greg Gibbs, a currency strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in Sydney.  Rubber futures have gained 21 percent this year, extending
last year’s 50 percent rally. Supplies from Thailand,  Indonesia 
and Malaysia, the top growers representing 70 percent of global
supply, were curbed by rain while rising car sales led by  China 
and  India  improved demand.  “Concerns over worsening supply shortage still boost the
sentiment as demand remains robust, while supply may demand
further as rubber trees are entering leave-shedding season,
lowering output,” Sureerat Kunthongjun, an analyst at AGROW
Enterprise Ltd., said by phone from Bangkok.  La Nina, which started in June and usually lasts for nine
months or more, has led to higher-than-average rainfall in most
parts of  Southeast Asia . The weather event is having a “major
impact” on rubber and palm oil production in Malaysia, as
heavier rainfall may hamper harvesting and tapping, according to
the Malaysian Meteorological Department.  The physical price of natural rubber in Thailand advanced
to a record 184.05 baht ($5.96) a kilogram today as investors
are concerned over the supply situation in Thailand and  Malaysia 
ahead of the annual low-production period, the  Rubber Research
Institute of Thailand  said. Robust car sales in the U.S.
supported prices, it said.  U.S. Car Sales  U.S. sales of cars and light trucks rose 17.3 percent from
a year earlier to 817,098 in January, according to data provided
by Ward’s Information Products.  The Shanghai market will be closed until Feb. 8 for Lunar
New Year holidays. May-delivery rubber in Shanghai climbed to a
record 41,850 yuan ($6,350) a ton on Jan. 31.  Natural-rubber consumption in China may rise 9 percent to
3.6 million tons this year and India’s consumption may gain 5.2
percent to 991,000 tons, according to the Association of Natural
Rubber Producing Countries.  China’s natural-rubber inventories rose for the first week
in four, adding 126 tons to 58,673 tons, based on a survey of 10
warehouses in Shanghai, Shandong, Yunnan, Hainan and Tianjin,
the  Shanghai  Futures Exchange said Feb. 1. That was a 61 percent
drop from last year’s peak of 151,832 tons.  Car-sales growth in China will be around 10 to 15 percent
this year, the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers
said Jan. 10. Total auto sales, which include cars, trucks and
buses, jumped 32 percent last year to 18.06 million, the
association said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net 
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Matthew Oakley  at 
 moakley@bloomberg.net  