-- Review: Rumsfeld Comes Out Jabbing, Has No Regrets for Abu Ghraib, WMDs
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2011-02-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/rumsfeld-comes-out-jabbing-has-no-regrets-for-abu-ghraib-wmds-review.html
Donald Rumsfeld is back. Four years
after being ousted from his job as secretary of defense, he has
produced a memoir, “ Known and Unknown ,” which covers a lot of
ground, most notably his own backside.  The former wrestler throws jabs at critics such as Senator  John McCain , lavishes fawning praise on former President  George W. Bush  and Vice President  Dick Cheney , and keeps the overall
tone defiant and biting rather than contrite or reflective.  One thing he doesn’t do is take responsibility for the
widespread detainee abuses in  Iraq  and Afghanistan or the bad
decisions made during the war -- the shortages of body armor and
armored vehicles, the poor postwar planning, the lack of troops
that contributed to a deadly insurgency.  Rumsfeld may be trying to present a friendlier image here -
- the book jacket features a photograph of him wearing a fleece
vest and jeans -- but this is the same guy once known as
“Rumstud” who enthusiastically sold the Bush administration’s
wrong-headed story about Iraq’s weapons of mass destruction and
set the tone that led to detainee abuses.  A constant theme is that the administration went to war in
Iraq with only the best intentions, based on faulty intelligence
stating that  Saddam Hussein  possessed nuclear, biological and
chemical weapons.  “What was unique about Iraq was that the intelligence
community reported near total confidence in their conclusions,”
Rumsfeld writes. “Their assessments appeared to be unusually
consistent.”  No Skepticism  Nowhere does Rumsfeld, the grand inquisitor of generals and
admirals when discussing strategy, disclose any instance when he
or other officials grilled the Central Intelligence Agency with
skepticism.  The impression I got from the book is that Rumsfeld and
others heard what they wanted to hear and embellished broadly.  Don’t forget this Rumsfeld statement from September 2002:
“There’s no debate in the world as to whether they have those
weapons. We all know that. A trained ape knows that.”  Rumsfeld never explains this one, but he does acknowledge a
“misstatement” when he told ABC News “we know where they
are,” referring to prohibited weapons.  “I should have used the phrase ‘suspect sites,’” he says
in one of the few nods to a mistake.  Rumsfeld also blames the intelligence community for its
purported failure to predict the insurgency that brought Iraq to
virtual civil war: “In the list of intelligence shortcomings,
the failure to highlight the dangers of an insurgency was among
the more serious.”  Intelligence Report  That’s not the way intelligence professionals remember it.
A widely circulated January 2003  National Intelligence Council 
assessment of postwar Iraq predicted violence.  “The threat of Shia reprisals for the oppression they
suffered under Saddam’s rule is a major concern to the Sunni
elite and could erupt if not prevented by an occupying force,”
the  report  said.  Among the Pentagon officials on the distribution list was
Deputy Defense Secretary Paul D. Wolfowitz.  Rumsfeld devotes many pages to Guantanamo Bay, detainee
interrogations and  Abu Ghraib , and includes a thoughtful
discussion of “the complex moral questions” the U.S. faced in
crafting a judicial system for alleged terrorists.  One of his “biggest disappointments” as secretary was
“my inability to marshal the resources within our government to
help persuade America and the world of the truth about Gitmo:
the most heavily scrutinized detention facility in the world was
also one of the most professionally run in history.”  Shifting Ground  This rings extremely hollow considering the shifting ground
rules for media coverage at the facility dating back to 2002. If
it was being so well run, why not make it more transparent? (The
November/December 2010 issue of the  Columbia Journalism Review 
lays out the media history.)  Rumsfeld sticks to the view that the “unacceptable” Abu
Ghraib abuses in late 2003 were committed by “a small group of
disturbed individuals.” He did offer to resign twice over the
incident; Bush rejected the idea. Still, he selectively quotes
from at least one official report to back up his claim that
Pentagon interrogation policy had nothing to do with the abuse.  The August 2004  report  by former Defense Secretary James R. Schlesinger, which looked at Pentagon detainee operations around
the world, said -- as Rumsfeld repeated -- “there is no
evidence of a policy of abuse promulgated by senior officials or
military authorities.”  Rumsfeld, however, neglects to quote another part of the
report that says a December 2002 memo he authorized --and later
rescinded -- allowing “more aggressive” interrogation of some
detainees at GTMO had unintended consequences.  Augmented Techniques  “Although specifically limited by the Secretary of Defense
to Guantanamo, and requiring his personal approval (given in
only 2 cases), the augmented techniques migrated to  Afghanistan 
and Iraq where they were neither limited nor safeguarded,” the
panel said.  After all the dust settles, Rumsfeld still believes the  Iraq war  was justified -- though he says it’s fair to ask
whether it was worth the cost. Sure, he notes, it came at a
“high price” -- thousands of combat casualties, hundreds of
billions of dollars spent, “poisoned” domestic politics.
Still, he says, “I have no doubt that given the facts available
to President Bush in 2003, I would have made the same
decision.”  In a book of knowns and unknowns, Rumsfeld is certain of
that.  “Known and Unknown: A Memoir” is published by Sentinel
(815 pages, $36). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .    Tony Capaccio  is a Pentagon reporter for Bloomberg News.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 