-- Sanofi Better Smart as Options Lower Genzyme’s Price: Real M&A
-- B y   M i c h a e l   T s a n g   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2011-02-04T03:30:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/sanofi-better-smart-than-lucky-as-options-lower-genzyme-s-price-real-m-a.html
Options contracts on  Genzyme Corp .’s
multiple sclerosis drug would decrease  Sanofi-Aventis SA ’s cost
by as much as $1.6 billion in a takeover of the world’s largest
maker of treatments for rare genetic diseases.  Sanofi may offer $76 to $77 a share in cash and options,
people with knowledge of the discussions, who declined to be
identified because the matter is private, said this week. While
the companies are still negotiating, Sanofi has sought to pay
$71 in cash and issue contingent value rights, or payments tied
to sales of Genzyme’s experimental drug Lemtrada, of about $5 to
$6 a share, one person said. Genzyme wants a higher cash payment
up front and a smaller CVR, the person said. If the drug fails
to win regulatory approval, the options would be worthless.  The CVRs would enable Sanofi to purchase Genzyme for $18.4
billion, a 52 percent discount to comparable biotechnology deals
based on Genzyme’s estimated earnings, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. With Paris-based Sanofi facing a loss of
patent protections and three years of falling profit, Chief
Executive Officer Chris Viehbacher has spent more than $8
billion on takeovers since starting two years ago. The stock has
still lagged behind health-care rivals in  Europe .  “It’s a creative tactic for Sanofi,” said  Michael Holland , who oversees more than $4 billion as chairman of New
York-based Holland & Co. and was a general partner at private
equity firm Blackstone Group LP. With CVRs, they also “protect
themselves against the uncertainty of their drug performance in
case things don’t go well. If all goes well, everyone comes out
a winner,” he said.  Celgene Options  The deal for Genzyme may be announced as soon as the
beginning of next week, the people said.  Bo Piela, a spokesman for Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
Genzyme, and Sanofi’s Jack Cox both declined to comment.  Sanofi wouldn’t be the first company to use options linked
to drug performance. Summit, New Jersey-based  Celgene Corp .
added CVRs in a deal for Abraxis BioScience Inc. in June, tied
to milestones set for the company’s cancer medicine Abraxane.  Abraxis stockholders received an upfront payment of $58 in
cash, one tradeable CVR, and 0.2617 common shares of Celgene for
each Abraxis share they owned. The upfront payments valued Los
Angeles-based Abraxis at about $2.9 billion, the companies said.  The CVRs, which began trading at $4 in October, tumbled 42
percent on Jan. 10 after Celgene said Abraxane didn’t meet a
study goal, a milestone tied to a potential $250 million payout.  The CVR “offsets some of the risk of the drug not reaching
full potential,” said  Michael Obuchowski , chief investment
officer of Hauppauge, New York-based First Empire Asset
Management, which owns Genzyme shares.  Cash Savings  The cash portion of Sanofi’s offer would be an increase of
$2 from its original unsolicited bid of $69 a share on Aug. 29
that Genzyme rejected. CVR payments may rise or fall based on
due diligence, said one of the people. Genzyme said it was worth
$89 a share in October, based on its profit growth forecast.  At $71 a share, Genzyme shareholders would receive $18.4
billion in cash, while getting CVRs with a payment value of $5
to $6 per share. That would save Sanofi $1.3 billion to $1.6
billion in upfront costs, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The CVRs for Lemtrada may pay out more if it exceeds sales
targets or less if they are lower, one person said. Investors
would be able to trade the CVR, according to two of the people.  The per-share cash portion would represent 17.6 times
analysts’ profit estimates of $4.035 per share for Genzyme this
year. With the company projected to earn $4.90 next year and
$5.90 in 2013, that multiple would drop an average of 14.4 times
annual income over three years, the data show.  Relative Value  Five comparable acquisitions for biotechnology companies
from Genentech Inc. to MedImmune Inc. were struck at a median
36.6 times reported income, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
largest was Basel, Switzerland-based  Roche Holding AG ’s $44
billion acquisition of Genentech in March 2009.  Roche, the maker of the world’s best-selling cancer drug,
agreed to pay $95 a share for the 44 percent of South San
Francisco-based Genentech that it didn’t own, or about 34 times
trailing 12-month per-share earnings, Bloomberg data show.  Sanofi is getting advice on its offer from New York-based
firms Evercore Partners Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan
Stanley, and BNP Paribas SA and Societe Generale of Paris, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Genzyme is using Zurich-based  Credit
Suisse Group AG  and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. of  New York .  Sanofi made its takeover approach after a virus
contaminated a Genzyme manufacturing facility in  Massachusetts ,
causing drug shortages as well as drawing fines and increased
scrutiny from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.  Takeover Approach  Genzyme dropped as much as 43 percent from a 2008 high of
$83.25, while activist investors  Carl Icahn  and Relational
Investors LLC’s Ralph Whitworth gained control of seats on
Genzyme’s board. Genzyme’s biggest shareholders included  Valley
Forge , Pennsylvania-based Vanguard Group Inc. and  State Street
Corp . of  Boston  as of Sept. 30, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Sanofi’s interest in Genzyme was first reported July 23,
spurring a five-day, 29 percent rally in Genzyme’s stock to
$69.79. Sanofi made its $69-a-share offer public on Aug. 29.
Genzyme rejected it, prompting Sanofi to take the bid directly
to shareholders in October.  Genzyme said on Jan. 10 that it was in talks with Sanofi
and discussions revolved around a CVR that was tied to the
success of its experimental multiple sclerosis medicine.  The drug, which will be marketed as Lemtrada if approved
for use in MS, is already approved as a leukemia treatment. The
medicine brought in less than $150 million in revenue in 2009.  Lemtrada Sales   Genzyme has said Lemtrada will be its biggest product,
topping sales of rare-disease medicine Cerezyme. The treatment
for the inherited illness Gaucher disease, had sales in 2009 of
$793 million, falling from more than $1 billion from the
previous year as the plant contamination caused shortages.  Sanofi is “paying for certainty,” said M. Ian Somaiya,
who covers biotechnology companies as an analyst at Piper
Jaffray & Co. in New York. “They’re paying for CVRs only if
they’re meeting milestones or thresholds they’re comfortable
with.”  Elsewhere in mergers and acquisitions,  Newmont Mining
Corp ., the largest U.S. gold producer, agreed yesterday to buy  Fronteer Gold Inc . for C$1.99 billion ($2.01 billion), including
net debt, to gain exploration and development projects in
Nevada. Newmont of  Greenwood Village , Colorado, will pay C$14
for each Fronteer share, a 41 percent premium to the Vancouver-
based company’s average price in the past 20 trading days.    Nippon Steel Corp . of Tokyo and  Sumitomo Metal Industries
Ltd . in Osaka plan to combine and create the world’s second-
largest steelmaker to gain leverage over raw-material purchases
and pricing of the metal as costs soar.  Sumitomo Metal  Based on Sumitomo’s market value and net debt, the deal
would be worth about 2 trillion yen ($24.5 billion), according
to Bloomberg data. Yesterday’s announcement didn’t disclose
terms and said the deal would be completed by October 2012.  OAO Dixy Group in Moscow agreed yesterday to buy rival
Russian supermarket chain Victoria Group for 20 billion rubles
($683 million), excluding debt. The deal would create the
country’s third-biggest food retailer by revenue, selling space
and number of stores.  There have been 2,272 deals announced globally this year,
totaling $186.8 billion, a 18 percent increase from the $158.6
billion in the same period in 2010, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Michael Tsang  in New York at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   Rgale5@bloomberg.net . 