-- Scene Last Night: Harbor Investment Conference, Dancers Party
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2011-02-05T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/scene-last-night-ackman-berkowitz-darst-at-harbor-investment-conference.html
“I’m a good conversationalist,”
said hedge-fund manager  William Ackman  at a reception Thursday
following the  Harbor Investment Conference .  “It comes from a lot of blind dating.”  Ackman, the founder and chief executive officer of Pershing
Square Capital Management LP, plied his gifts earlier in an
onstage talk with Bruce Berkowitz, president and director of
Fairholme Funds Inc.  The conference combines philanthropy with a forum in which
top money managers share their wisdom. It took place at JP
Morgan Chase’s headquarters on Madison Avenue in New York.  The event raised more than $400,000 for  Boys & Girls Harbor
Inc. , an East Harlem-based agency that runs college-preparation
and arts-education programs.  “We think it’s every child’s birthright to have a great
education,” said conference founder Mark Axelowitz, director of
Morgan Stanley Private Wealth Management. Axelowitz, a Harbor
board member, was co-chairman of the event along with Ackman.  Yoga, Botox  Featured speakers included Craig Nerenberg, managing
partner of Brenner West Capital Partners, and David Darst,
managing director and chief investment strategist at Morgan
Stanley Smith Barney LLC, who disclosed the budget plans for
many in the room:  “Are we going to give our wealth to our kids? No. We’re
going to spend it on Botox and being stretched on a yoga mat by
a swami,” Darst joked.  Dance Fete  Artist David Salle and choreographer Karole Armitage used
to date in the 1980s. Now they make beautiful parties together.  On Thursday night the pair put on a fundraiser for  Armitage
Gone! Dance  at Capitale, an event venue in Lower Manhattan
located in a former bank.  The Chinese New Year and art spectacle included a giant pig
sculpture and dancers in skimpy black underwear.  Guests included  Calvin Klein ,  Salman Rushdie  and  Julian Schnabel  and his son Vito Schnabel. Also in evidence was Pierre
Olivier Sarkozy, a managing director at the  Carlyle Group , and
half-brother of French President  Nicolas Sarkozy .  Alba Clemente, gala cochairwoman, shopped Chinatown for the
table centerpieces, which featured fortune cookies, jumbo paper
parasols and red silk lanterns.  Guest Marcia Mishaan had her own food news. The healthy
frozen kid’s foods company she founded with Claude Wasserstein,
Samantha Schlumberger and Susie Cover, Susie’s Supper Club LLC,
is introducing its macaroni-and-cheese cupcakes in 11 Whole
Foods stores on Feb. 8.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 