-- SEC Names Mark Cahn Top Lawyer to Replace Departing David Becker
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2011-02-04T19:57:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/sec-appoints-mark-cahn-general-counsel-to-replace-departing-david-becker.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission promoted Mark D. Cahn to general counsel as the
agency fulfills the mandates of the Dodd-Frank regulatory
overhaul to write more than 100 rules and issue 20 studies.  Cahn, 49, who has been deputy general counsel, has worked
at the SEC since 2009, the agency said in a statement today. He
will replace David M. Becker, whose departure at the end of the
month was announced Feb. 1.  The general counsel plays a central role evaluating rules,
advising the commissioners and representing the SEC in legal
disputes. Cahn already has counseled the commissioners on
litigation, appellate and enforcement matters, according to the
statement.  “He is well-positioned to help the agency evolve and keep
pace with the ever-changing markets,” SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said in a statement.  Before joining the SEC, Cahn was a partner in the
securities litigation and enforcement practice at WilmerHale
LLP. Cahn previously clerked for Judge John J. Gibbons at the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Third Circuit.  “I look forward to continuing to serve a chairman and a
commission so committed to protecting investors,” Cahn said in
a statement.  Becker, 63, who served as general counsel and senior policy
adviser since being hired as one of Schapiro’s first
appointments in 2009, is leaving the agency for the private
sector, the agency said. Schapiro said Becker had fulfilled a
promise to stay in the job for two years. It marks the end of
his second stint with the SEC, after having been general counsel
from 1999 to 2002.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 