-- Schapiro Says Budget Dispute Is Impeding SEC’s Work
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2011-02-04T15:44:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/sec-s-schapiro-says-budgetary-constraints-are-putting-strain-on-regulator.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission is struggling to cope with budgetary constraints as
it faces rulemaking requirements imposed by the Dodd-Frank Act
and a full pipeline of cases stemming from the financial crisis,
Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said today in a Washington speech.  “It is a strain that is already having an impact on our
core mission -- separate and apart from the new responsibilities
that Congress gave us to regulate derivatives, hedge-fund
advisers and credit-rating agencies,” Schapiro said in remarks
prepared for the Practising Law Institute’s SEC Speaks forum.  “We need to ask ourselves if we want our market analysts
to continue to use decades-old technology to recreate market
events or to monitor trading that occurs at the speed of
light,” she said.  Funding increases for the SEC and the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, agencies responsible for a substantial
portion of the rulemaking under the financial-regulation
overhaul enacted last year, are being held up by congressional
wrangling over the federal budget for the current fiscal year,
which started in October.  After bringing cases last year stemming from the credit
crisis against firms such as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc .,  Citigroup
Inc . and  State Street Corp ., the SEC has opened probes in other
areas. The agency is looking into possible violations by firms
in dealings with sovereign wealth funds and whether high-
frequency traders are using algorithms and opaque platforms to
manipulate markets.  ‘Impairing Our Efforts’  Budget shortfalls are “clearly impairing our efforts,”
SEC Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami  said last month, noting
that his unit has put off technology upgrades and hiring over
concerns that Congress won’t give the agency the funding it says
it needs.  The SEC has had a 20 percent increase in the number of
court-ordered disgorgements over the last year, and a tripling
of penalties, Schapiro said in her prepared remarks.  “Our pipeline of significant cases remains full,” she
said.  The budget crunch is threatening to “turn away the influx
of market and economic experts willing to complement our
existing talent and join our ranks,” Schapiro said. It is also
impeding efforts to gain ground on financial firms that spend
many times more on technology than the SEC does for its total
operating costs, she said.  “We need to get access to data that other people already
have,” Gregg Berman, a senior adviser in the SEC’s Division of
Risk, Strategy, and Financial Innovation, said at the
conference. “It is no longer sufficient for us to simply
respond to the analyses” that market participants provide, he
said.  The Dodd-Frank Act mandated more than 100 rules and 20
studies from the SEC. So far, the agency has proposed 24 of the
rules and adopted six, Schapiro said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 