-- Simon Property Earnings Increase as Rising Retail Sales Help Boost Rents
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2011-02-04T13:50:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/simon-property-earnings-increase-as-rising-retail-sales-help-boost-rents.html
  Simon Property Group Inc ., the
largest U.S. shopping-mall owner, said fourth-quarter earnings
excluding items rose as the nation’s retail sales rebounded.  Funds from operations increased to $630.6 million, or $1.78
a share, from $485.2 million, or $1.40, a year earlier, the
Indianapolis-based company said today in a statement. The
results included an impairment charge of 2 cents a share.
Analysts projected FFO of $1.74 a share, the average of 16
estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  U.S. mall owners are benefiting from increased  consumer
spending  as the economy grows. Sales at the nation’s retailers
rose in December for a sixth consecutive month, capping the
biggest one-year gain in more than a decade, the Commerce
Department reported Jan. 14. Rising sales for tenants help
landlords boost occupancies and rents.  “Malls are actually one of the better performing property
types out there,” Craig Guttenplan, an analyst at CreditSights
in  London , said in a telephone interview before the report.
Simon is in a position to benefit from the rebound because “it
has a lot of premier properties,” he said.  The real estate investment trust owns or has stakes in
almost 400 properties in  North America ,  Europe  and  Asia .  The company abandoned a takeover pursuit of  Capital
Shopping Centres Group Plc  last month after the London-based
company declined to share due diligence information. Purchasing
Capital Shopping would have enabled Simon to enter the U.K.,
Europe’s largest economy outside the euro region.  General Growth  It was the second time in the past year that Simon faced
resistance from an acquisition target. It pursued  General Growth
Properties Inc ., the second-biggest U.S. mall owner, for three
months after being rebuffed by the Chicago-based company.
General Growth, in bankruptcy at the time, favored a rival
proposal to keep it independent and proceeded with that deal.  “Simon’s the type of company that likes to grow through
acquisitions,” Guttenplan said.  FFO is a cash-flow measure used by real estate investment
trusts. It excludes depreciation and other items and doesn’t
conform to generally accepted accounting principles.  Occupancy rose to 94.2 percent in the fourth quarter from
93.4 percent a year ago. Comparable sales per square foot rose 9
percent to $494. Rent averaged $38.87 a square foot, a 40-cent
increase. Revenue rose 9 percent to $1.1 billion.  “We delivered impressive results in an improving but still
challenging environment,” Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  David Simon  said in the statement.  Simon projects FFO for 2011 of $6.45 to $6.60 a share. The
average estimate among analysts in the Bloomberg survey is
$6.57.  Simon’s earnings were released before the open of U.S.
exchanges. The shares rose 1.8 percent to $104.70 at 4:15 p.m.
yesterday in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. They
have gained 51 percent in the past 12 months, compared with a 41
percent advance in the Bloomberg REIT Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  