-- Singh Says India Needs to Slow Accelerating Inflation With `Great Urgency'
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2011-02-04T09:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/singh-says-india-needs-to-slow-accelerating-inflation-with-great-urgency-.html
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said
India needs to urgently contain prices, that are rising at the
fastest pace among major economies in  Asia , signaling the
government may withdraw fiscal stimulus.  “Inflation is something, which needs to be tackled with
great urgency,” Singh said, addressing a meeting of government
officials in New Delhi. The Indian economy “has been on a high
growth trajectory, but inflation poses a serious threat to the
growth momentum.”  Singh’s Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee may increase
taxes when he presents the government’s budget on Feb. 28,
aligning fiscal policy with the central bank’s move to raise its
policy rates, said Namrata Padhye, an economist at IDBI Gilts
Ltd. Rising demand for Hero Honda Motors Ltd.’s motorcycles and
Hindustan Unilever Ltd.’s soaps has fueled inflation, which
averaged more than 9 percent last year.  “The monetary and the fiscal policy has to be on the same
footing to control inflation,” said Mumbai-based Padhye. “The
government will need to do its bit by way of fully rolling back
fiscal stimulus measures as the monetary policy tries to curb
demand.”  Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  raised the benchmark repurchase
rate by a quarter-point to 6.5 percent on Jan. 25 and urged the
government to take steps to control spending on subsidies that
is adding to inflation.  The “challenge to effective management of inflation by
monetary policy arises from the persistence of a large fiscal
deficit,” Subbarao said in a Jan. 25 statement.  “While
subsidies may contribute in the short term to keeping supply-
side inflationary pressures in check, they may more than offset
this benefit by adding to aggregate demand.”  Milk, Meat, Eggs    India ’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation rate advanced
8.43 percent in December from 7.48 percent in the previous month,
the biggest jump in ten months, due to higher costs of food and
oil. The recent spurt in prices has been driven by an increase
in the prices of vegetables, fruits, milk, meat, eggs and fish,
Singh said.  The yield on the most-traded 8.13 percent bond due in
September 2022 rose 3 basis points to 8.22 percent at 1:06 p.m.
today, after rising 19 basis points since January. The Bombay
Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index fell 1.24 percent today and the
rupee was little changed at 45.63 against the dollar.  Inflation may also rise as companies including Indian Oil
Corp., the biggest state-run oil refiner, and rivals raise
prices. Higher raw material costs will make  Videocon Industries
Ltd ., India’s biggest consumer electronics maker, increase
refrigerator and air conditioner prices by 2 percent, Shekhar
Jyoti, chief operating officer of the company’s electronics and
appliances division, said in December.  ‘Lasting Solution’  Prime Minister Singh today said India will need to increase
the production of commodities to meet rising domestic
consumption, driven by higher incomes.  “The lasting solution for food price inflation lies in
increasing agricultural productivity and production not only of
cereals but also of pulses, oilseeds, vegetables and fruits, and
augmenting the supply of milk and milk products, poultry, meat
and fish,” he said.  Finance Minister Mukherjee, in his last budget increased
the excise tax rate on manufacturers to 10 percent from 8
percent. It stood at 12 percent before the global financial
crisis. He kept the service tax at 10 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  