-- Spanish Debt Is ‘Domino That Will Stand,’ RCM's Utermann Says
-- B y   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2011-02-04T13:01:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/spanish-debt-is-the-domino-that-will-stand-rcm-s-andreas-utermann-says.html
Spanish bonds offer “a good
investment opportunity” because the country will probably
survive the region’s debt crisis, said Andreas Utermann, chief
investment officer at the RCM unit of Allianz Global Investors.  “We think  Spain  will indeed be the domino that will
actually stand,” Utermann, who helps oversee about $146
billion, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “On the
Move” with  Francine Lacqua . “The premiums that you’re getting
on Spanish debt at the moment and on some of the equity are
probably a good investment opportunity. We continue to be
cautious on  Portugal , Greece and Ireland.”  European leaders meet today in Brussels to find a way out
of the debt crisis that is threatening to engulf Portugal and
Spain after Ireland and Greece were forced to seek aid. Utermann
said he favors shorter-dated debt to longer maturities such as
10-year bonds, which he said are “dangerous and overvalued.”  The  Federal Reserve  and the Bank of England embarked on so-
called quantitative easing programs in which they purchased
bonds with new money to spur the economy. The  European Central
Bank  began buying government debt in May to stabilise markets
roiled by the crisis. ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet said
yesterday the bank’s bond-buying program is “ongoing.”  “Bond markets at the longer maturities are dangerous and
overvalued, manipulated,” he said. “That’s what the central
banks with QE are trying to do.”  The euro region’s sovereign-debt crisis erupted in 2009
after Greece’s newly elected Socialist government said the  budget deficit  was twice as big as the previous leadership had
disclosed. The extra yield investors demand to hold the bonds of
Spain, Portugal,  Greece  and Ireland instead of benchmark German
bunds climbed to records in the past year.  Spanish debt returned 2.2 percent this year, with Greek
bonds rising 6.2 percent, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. German securities fell 1.7 percent, while U.S.
Treasuries declined 0.8 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francine Lacqua in London at  flacqua@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  