-- Spanish Economic Growth Accelerated in Fourth Quarter, Bank of Spain Says
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2011-02-04T09:36:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/spanish-economic-growth-accelerated-in-fourth-quarter-bank-of-spain-says.html
  Spain ’s economy gathered strength in
the fourth quarter amid growing exports after stagnating in the
third as the government imposed the deepest austerity measures
in three decades.  Gross domestic product probably advanced 0.2 percent from
the third quarter and 0.6 percent from a year earlier, the
Madrid-based Bank of Spain said today in its monthly bulletin.
The National Statistics Institute, which said the economy
stagnated in the third quarter, publishes fourth-quarter data on
Feb. 11. Spanish exports rose 13 percent from a year earlier in
the first 10 months of the year, according to Eurostat.  “This is good news,” said Antonio Garcia Pascual, an
economist at  Barclays Capital  in  London . “Manufacturing and
agriculture may have performed somewhat better than expected.”  Spain’s economy emerged from an almost two-year recession
in 2010 before losing steam in the third quarter. The government
trimmed public wages in June and has frozen pensions and cut
social benefits as part of its efforts to slash the euro
region’s third-largest budget deficit, even as the  unemployment
rate  remains above 20 percent.  This year will likely see “a slow recovery very much
dependent on the external sector, limited by the fiscal
adjustment and the process of cleaning up balance sheets that
the private sector faces,” the Bank of Spain said. The outlook
is “subject to great uncertainty and to the risks associated
with the tensions in the sovereign debt markets.”  The Spanish yield spread over equivalent German bonds
narrowed to 186 basis points from 197 basis points yesterday.
That compares with a euro-era high of 298 basis points on Nov.
30 and an average of 15 basis points in the first decade of
monetary union.  Spread Narrows  That spread dropped on Feb. 2 to the narrowest in three
months as investors increased bets European leaders will succeed
in strengthening measures to fight the sovereign-debt crisis.
European officials are nearing a consensus to enable the
European Financial Stability Facility to buy distressed
government debt in the primary market, four people familiar with
the discussions said.  Still,  Germany  has ruled out allowing the mechanism to fund
bond buybacks, a German government official told reporters on
Feb. 2.  France  is “not in full agreement” with its larger
neighbor on the facility’s future, a government official said
yesterday in Paris.  Spain stepped up its own efforts to restore investors’
confidence last week, raising the  retirement age  and giving
lenders a September deadline to bolster capital levels. Deputy
Finance Minister Jose Manuel Campa said on Feb. 2 that Spain
will “never” need to tap the European Union’s rescue facility.  The government forecasts growth this year of 1.3 percent,
after estimating the economy contracted 0.2 percent in 2010.  Industrial production unexpectedly declined 0.1 percent in
December as government austerity measures weighed on demand, the
National Statistics Institute in  Madrid  said today. Economists
expected production to rise 1.5 percent according to the median
of six forecasts in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  