-- Super Bowl May Benefit Dallas More Than City That Built Stadium
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n   a n d   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2011-02-04T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/super-bowl-may-benefit-dallas-more-than-arlington-city-that-built-stadium.html
  Dallas  Cowboys owner  Jerry Jones  and
the city of Arlington gave all 135 North Texas cities a gift
when they built the $1.2 billion stadium that will host the  Super Bowl  in two days, said Ross Perot Jr.  “We now have the attention of the world focused on Dallas
and  Fort Worth ,” said Perot, 52, chairman of Hillwood
Development Co., a Dallas-based real estate company.  While Arlington invested $325 million from sales taxes
toward the cost of Cowboys Stadium, the cities Dallas and Fort
Worth stand to reap most of the benefit from almost $400 million
in estimated spending at the  National Football League ’s title
game, said Craig Depkin, economics professor at the University
of North Carolina in  Charlotte . The cities, with a combined
population of 2 million, have more hotel rooms, restaurants and
entertainment venues where visitors will spend before, during
and after the Feb. 6 game.  “We’re very thankful the voters of Arlington helped
construct that beautiful stadium,” said David Berzina,
executive vice president of economic development for the  Fort
Worth Chamber of Commerce . “Multiple cities will share in the
windfall.”  Robert Cluck, the mayor of Arlington, which is midway
between Dallas and Fort Worth, said his city collected a record
$57.5 million in sales taxes last year, up from $53 million, in
part because of the stadium. Getting the Super Bowl, however,
took a group effort, he said.  “We approached this as being a North Texas Super Bowl,”
Cluck said in a telephone interview. “We knew the only way to
make it bigger and better was to all work together.”  Business Investment  Besides Arlington’s investment in the stadium and a little
more than $31 million in rebated  tax revenue  to cover costs,
most of the investment to win the Super Bowl came from local
companies, including Perot’s Hillwood, a real estate developer,
and businesses that contributed $40 million.  Super Bowl events are scattered around the region. The NFL
Experience, a football-themed carnival, is at the  Dallas
Convention Center .  Taste of the NFL , a food and wine event
featuring restaurants from every NFL city, is in Fort Worth.  The estimated 150,000 visitors will consume “a lot of
coffee, a lot of meals and a lot of hotel rooms,” Berzina said.  Conflicting Figures  Just how much revenue the fans will generate is in dispute.  A study for the North Texas Super Bowl XLV Host Committee
in early 2010 estimated the game would generate $374.7 million
in direct spending. The research, by La Mesa, California-based
Marketing Information Masters Inc., projected the state would
reap $36.2 million in additional taxes, with local cities and
counties getting $10.5 million.  PriceWaterhouseCoopers LLC  found that the Super Bowl may
bring record visitors and spending to North Texas. The
accounting firm said spending by the NFL and visitors will total
about $202 million, ahead of the previous high of $195 million
generated by the 2007 game in South Florida.  “Dallas/Fort Worth appears ready to capture much of the
fan and corporate spending that might have stayed away over the
past two years,” Robert Canton, director of the company’s
sports and tourism sector, said in a news release.  Others are more skeptical of the benefits. The University
of  North Carolina ’s Depkin said it isn’t certain the Super Bowl
will generate extra tax revenue. Sometimes the event supplants
spending on other forms of entertainment, or displaces local
residents who decide not to go out when the game is in town,
said Depkin, who has studied spending around major events.  Lower Gains  In a 2004  study  called “Padding Required: Assessing the
Economic Impact of the Super Bowl,” economists Victor Matheson
and Robert Baade found the income gains from the game were
typically “one quarter or less” than estimates, or about $92
million on average.  “The question is whether the additional sales tax is
enough to offset the spending by the state,” said Depkin.  Brian McCarthy, an NFL spokesman, said the league didn’t
have specifics on Super Bowl spending.  The weather during Super Bowl week hasn’t helped business
owners. North Texas has been hit by the coldest temperatures in
the region for 20 years, making Pittsburgh Steelers and Green
Bay Packers fans feel at home while keeping trade light.  “Business is 50 percent down on our projections,” said
Scott Jones, owner of the  Cowtown Diner , which is less than a
block from  Walt Disney Co . network ESPN’s main Super Bowl
broadcast location in Fort Worth’s Sundance Square. “We had to
close Tuesday and foot traffic has been nowhere near what we
expected since. Hopefully a weekend warm-up will have people
coming out in droves.”  Hotels Boon  While cold weather slowed restaurant sales, hotels are
packed.  “We’re sold out,” said Ray Hammer, general manager of the
Sheraton in downtown Dallas, which is housing the media center
for 3,000 journalists in town for the game.  The 1,840-room hotel, owned by Starwood Hotels & Resorts
Worldwide Inc., spent $91 million on improvements ahead of the
game and business is up 50 percent from a year ago. There was
also an upsurge in bookings in 2010 from 2009 because the
National Basketball Association All-Star Game was played Feb. 14
last year at Cowboys Stadium.  Like Perot, Mabrie Jackson, chief executive of the  North
Texas Commission , which coordinates the efforts of local
governments for common projects such as luring a Super Bowl,
said the game is about more than generating immediate income. It
provides an unparalleled marketing opportunity to show that the
region is about more than “cowboy boots and  oil wells .”  “North Texas is holding its door open wide and letting
people stay a while,” said Jackson. “It’s more money, but it
also is about introducing North Texas to the rest of the
country.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  