-- Super Bowl Fans to Splurge on 6 Million Wings, 4.5 Million TVs
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2011-02-04T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/super-bowl-fans-to-splurge-on-6-million-wings-4-5-million-tvs.html
Chicken wings and big-screen TVs may
help drive  Super Bowl  spending past $10 billion this year for
the first time as more Americans throw parties and crowd sports
bars to root for the Green Bay Packers and Pittsburgh Steelers.    Buffalo Wild Wings Inc ., a Minneapolis-based restaurant
chain, predicts it will sell about 6 million wings for the Feb.
6 National Football League title game, up 9 percent from last
year, Chief Executive Officer Sally Smith said in an interview.
The most popular: honey barbeque and spicy garlic.  “Takeout is huge for us on Super Bowl Sunday, but we’re
also seeing more dine-in guests,” said Smith, who expects the
chain’s big screen projection, plasma and liquid-crystal-display
TVs to draw customers. “We’re seeing a bit of an improvement
throughout the industry.” People have “room in their budget
for wings and a beer.”  Americans will spend an average of $59.33 on game-related
merchandise, apparel and snacks this year, an increase of 13
percent from last year, the  National Retail Federation  said,
citing consumers surveyed by BIGresearch. That pushes total
spending to an estimated $10.1 billion, the most in the eight
years that New York-based NRF has conducted the survey.  About 34.9 million Americans are planning to throw their
own party this year, up from 31.6 million last year, Washington-
based NRF said. Some 61.2 million plan to attend a party, an
increase from 58.8 million in 2010, according to the survey.  Giant Tent  U.S. consumer spending has been accelerating. Household
purchases, accounting for 70 percent of the economy, climbed 4.4
percent in the fourth quarter, the most since the first three
months of 2006, the Commerce Department said last week.  The Super Bowl, at Cowboys Stadium in Arlington, Texas, may
bring out Pittsburgh and Green Bay transplants in  Texas .  “We’re pitching a giant tent,” said Mike Quinn, co-owner
of  Malarkey’s Tavern , a hangout for Steelers fans in  Dallas .
Quinn, who’s serving Polish sausage in a nod to Pittsburgh
cuisine, said he’s expecting more than 10,000 customers over
Super Bowl weekend.  Vernon’s Grille, a haunt for Packers fans in Addison,
Texas, will deep-fry cod and grill bratwurst, a German sausage,
in anticipation sales may surge more than 50 percent, according
to Chris Myrick, a co-owner.  “A close game will keep people on the edge of their
seats,” said 27-year-old Myrick, who plans to spend as much as
$20,000 on Super Bowl expenses including renting a 100-foot-by-
40-foot tent.  Super Bowl Wagers  The Packers have won a record 12 NFL championships,
including three Super Bowl titles, while the Steelers’ six Super
Bowl victories are more than any other franchise. The Packers
are 2 1/2-point favorites to win by odds makers.  Super Bowl wagers in  Las Vegas  may top $90 million for the
first time in three years, according to Jay Rood, sports book
director at the MGM Mirage, and Jimmy Vaccaro, director of
sports operations at Lucky’s Race and Sports Book.  In the run up to the Super Bowl, scheduled to be broadcast
on  News Corp .’s Fox network, the most-watched sport in the U.S.
has had a season of record ratings on TV, according to
researcher Nielsen Co. Last year’s Super Bowl on CBS was the
most-watched TV program in U.S. history, with 106.5 million
viewers, Nielsen said at the time.  Demand for TVs this year is projected to increase, with an
estimated 4.5 million consumers intending to buy a new TV ahead
of the game, compared with 3.6 million who said they planned to
last year, NRF said.  Reduced Prices    Hhgregg Inc ., the regional U.S. electronics retailer,
lowered prices of some TVs by as much as 25 percent this week,
including a 58-inch Samsung plasma selling for $1297.72,
according to Jeff Pearson, a vice president.  “People want to get a TV for that Super Bowl party,”
Pearson said in a telephone interview.  The week before the Super Bowl is one of three during the
year, including Father’s Day and Thanksgiving, that
Indianapolis, Indiana-based Hhgregg reduces TV prices the most,
Pearson said. He declined to provide sales projections.  The cover of  Wal-Mart Stores Inc .’s U.S. newspaper flyer
this week promoted price cuts on pizza, chicken wings and a 40-
inch Royal Philips Electronics NV flat-panel TV for $498,
discounted by $100.  “We see that our business is pretty strong with the Super
Bowl,” said Kevin O’Connor, a Wal-Mart vice president and
general merchandise manager for electronics. He wouldn’t
disclose sales projections.  At Malarkey’s Tavern in Dallas, co-owner Quinn says he is
spending an extra $25,000 to provide valet parking service and
to set up two 20-foot TVs.  “We are hoping it is going to pay off,” Quinn said.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Chris Burritt  in Greensboro,  North Carolina ,
at   cburritt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net . 