-- Swiss Stocks Rise; Actelion, Holcim, Credit Suisse Shares Rally
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2011-02-04T17:29:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/swiss-stocks-climb-actelion-surges-after-hedge-fund-demands-resignations.html
Swiss stocks advanced, extending
their weekly rally, as U.S. Labor Department figures showed
unemployment fell in the world’s largest economy.    Actelion Ltd . surged 4 percent after a shareholder said  Switzerland ’s biggest biotechnology company should study a sale
and called for the chief executive officer and chairman to
resign.  UBS AG  and  Credit Suisse Group AG , the nation’s biggest
banks, advanced.  Petroplus Holdings AG  gained for a second day
after a bank raised its price estimate for the stock.  The  Swiss Market Index  of the biggest and most actively
traded companies rose 0.6 percent to 6,584.40 at the close in
Zurich, a weekly gain of 0.9 percent. The gauge has climbed 2.3
percent this year as investors speculated that the economic
recovery will continue. The broader Swiss Performance Index also
added 0.6 percent today.  “The unemployment number has improved but not enough to
cause a big change in  market sentiment ,” said Jean-Luc Lederrey, analyst at Banque Cantonale de Geneve. “The payroll
figure is also important because of the impact on household
spending.”  The U.S. jobless rate unexpectedly fell in January to the
lowest level since April 2009, while payrolls rose less than
forecast, depressed by winter storms. Unemployment declined to 9
percent last month from 9.4 percent in December, the Labor
Department said today in  Washington .  Employment rose by 36,000 workers, the smallest gain in
four months, after a 121,000 rise in December that was larger
than initially reported. Payrolls were projected to climb
146,000 in January, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey.  Actelion, Credit Suisse  Actelion surged 4 percent to 54.60 Swiss francs after hedge
fund Elliott Associates LP sent the company a letter demanding
that it looks at a sale and that Chief Executive Officer Jean- Paul Clozel and Chairman Robert Cawthorn resign.  “Shareholders are being given no choice regarding the
future direction and management,” Elliott Associates said in a
letter to Actelion’s board, according to an e-mailed copy the
fund provided to journalists. “Shareholders are consequently
not being given the choice to decide for themselves whether
Actelion’s current independent strategy is the best way
forward.” The fund said it controls a 6 percent stake.  Actelion said its board unanimously supports Clozel and
Cawthorn.  Credit Suisse climbed 3 percent to 43.99 francs, its
highest price since September.  UBS increased 1.6 percent to 17.48 francs. The stock has
advanced 17 percent since its six-month low at the end of
November.    Holcim Ltd ., the world’s second-biggest cement maker,
rallied 1.9 percent to 67.85 francs. The stock has still fallen
more than 6 percent since its six-month high on Dec. 21.  Petroplus, Rieter Gain  Petroplus advanced 1 percent to 17.31 francs to its highest
price in seven months. Morgan Stanley increased its price
estimate for the shares. Refiners are approaching “industry
turnaround season,” analysts at the bank wrote in a note to
clients today.  Vontobel AG raised its price estimate for Petroplus to 20
francs from 15 francs. “We clearly see upside from the impact
of the 3-Year improvement plan,” wrote Andreas Escher, analyst
at Vontobel, in a note to customers.    Rieter Holding AG  increased 2 percent to 367.75 francs. The
world’s largest maker of staple-fiber spinning machines said
full-year sales gained 32 percent to 2.59 billion francs ($2.73
billion). Rieter will report a full-year profit, the company
said in an e-mailed statement today.  Rieter plans to sell its automotive unit and has already
talked to possible buyers,  Tages-Anzeiger  reported, citing an
unidentified banker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  David Merritt  at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 