-- U.K. Halifax House Prices Unexpectedly Rise on Supply Shortage
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2011-02-04T08:53:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/u-k-january-house-prices-rise-0-8-on-month-halifax-says.html
U.K.  house prices  unexpectedly rose
in January as fewer homeowners put their properties up for sale,
squeezing supply, according to a report from Halifax.  Home values rose 0.8 percent to 164,173 pounds ($265,336)
from the previous month,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc ’s mortgage
unit said in a statement today. Economists predicted a decline
of 0.3 percent, according to the median of 13 forecasts in a
Bloomberg News survey. From a year earlier, values fell 2.5
percent.  “The recent downward trend in prices is causing homeowners
to be more reluctant to put their properties on the market,”
Halifax economist  Martin Ellis  said in the statement. “We
expect limited movement in house prices overall this year. There
are, however, likely to be some monthly fluctuations with the
risks on the downside.”  Britons have become less optimistic on the outlook for  home
prices , Rightmove Plc reported on Jan. 31, citing a survey. The
economy shrank 0.5 percent in the fourth quarter and GfK NOP
said last week that  consumer confidence  plunged the most since
1994 in January.  Barratt Developments Plc  Chief Executive
Officer Mark Clare said this week that the contraction may
worsen sentiment and delay the recovery in the housing market.  “The prospects for the market in 2011 are closely aligned
with the performance of the wider economy,” Ellis said.  In the three months through January, values fell 0.7
percent from the previous quarter and were down 2.4 percent on
the year.  While the Bank of England left its benchmark interest rate
at a record low 0.5 percent last month, prospective buyers face
tougher conditions to secure home loans. Mortgage approvals fell
in December to the lowest since March 2009.  Still, recent data suggests the economy’s slump in the last
quarter may only have been temporary. U.K. services and
construction returned to growth last month and manufacturing
grew at a record pace, reports showed this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  