-- U.S. Lawmakers Divided on Whether to Halt Egypt Aid to Prod Mubarak Aside
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2011-02-04T23:16:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/u-s-lawmakers-divided-on-whether-to-halt-egypt-aid-to-prod-mubarak-aside.html
U.S. lawmakers are divided on whether
to halt foreign aid to Egypt as a way to hasten President  Hosni Mubarak ’s exit from power amid continuing protests against his
three-decade rule.  Senator Patrick Leahy, the chairman of the panel that
controls foreign aid, said he’s prepared to stop all U.S.
financial assistance to Egypt -- which topped $1.5 billion last
year -- unless Mubarak steps aside immediately and allows a
transitional government to take over.  “If he doesn’t leave, there will not be foreign aid; I
mean, it’s as simple as that,” Leahy, a Vermont Democrat, told
Bloomberg Television in an interview Feb. 2. U.S. money “will
not go to the Mubarak administration,” Leahy said, adding,
“that’s a pipeline that can easily be turned off.”  A resolution the Senate passed last night urging Mubarak to
“immediately” start a peaceful transition to a new government
didn’t address whether he should be part of that effort and
didn’t directly address the question of stopping aid to  Egypt .  Without saying how, the measure says the Senate “ensures
that United States assistance to the Egyptian Government,
military, and people will advance the goal of ensuring respect
for the universal rights of the Egyptian people and will further
the national security interests of the  United States  in the
region.”  Leahy’s push for using U.S. aid as a tool to nudge Mubarak
from office is at odds with the approach taken by the
Republicans who head the House  committee  that doles out foreign
assistance.  ‘Solid Relationship’  Representative Tom Cole, an Oklahoma Republican, said it is
“premature” to make any decisions on aid to Egypt.  “We’ve got a very solid relationship with Egypt, and the
aid that we’ve rendered over the years has been one of the
things that has given us some leverage and some stability,”
Cole, the vice chairman of the foreign assistance spending
subcommittee, said in an interview yesterday. “I don’t think
it’s the time to be making threats or to be suspending what I
think has been a very productive, 30-year relationship.”  Nor would stopping aid to Egypt likely be as simple as
Leahy indicated. Majorities in the Senate and House would have
to vote to do so -- no certainty, given the divide emerging
among members of Congress -- and some of the money has already
been spent. Congress could at most pull back unspent or
unobligated money, funds that are in the “pipeline” to which
Leahy referred.  In a statement earlier this week, Representative Kay Granger of  Texas , the chairwoman of the House foreign aid
spending panel, responded to calls for halting assistance by
urging “caution.” She said the U.S. should be “deliberate
about the actions we take.”  Outbreak of Violence  Mubarak’s announcement Feb. 1 that he wouldn’t run in
elections scheduled for September failed to quell protests
against his government, and stoked the anger of demonstrators
who have since stepped up their demands for his quick departure.  An outbreak of violence following Mubarak’s speech by pro-
government forces targeting protesters and journalists has drawn
criticism from U.S. lawmakers, who warned their patience with
the 82-year-old leader was running out.  Mubarak “should know that the goodwill he has built up
over the past three decades is quickly evaporating as his allies
engage in inexcusable violence and intimidation,”
Representative Nita Lowey of  New York , the top Democrat on the
House panel that deals with foreign aid, said through a
spokesman yesterday.  Representative Gary L. Ackerman of New York, the first U.S.
lawmaker to call for Mubarak’s ouster, wrote to President  Barack Obama  today urging him to suspend aid to Egypt “until the
transition you called for begins.”  ‘This Cannot Continue’  “For 30-plus years, U.S. assistance has been a symbol of
U.S.-Egyptian friendship. Today, it has become a symbol to
Egyptians of U.S. support for President Mubarak,” wrote
Ackerman, the senior Democrat on the House subcommittee that
oversees Middle East policy. “This cannot continue.”  Democratic Representative Lloyd Doggett of Texas also is
pushing to use the only degree of control lawmakers have on
foreign policy matters -- the power of the purse -- to prod
Mubarak to leave.  Doggett, a nine-term House member who previously sought to
limit aid to Egypt, wrote to Obama Feb. 2 asking him to make
clear to Mubarak and his government that “Egypt will not
receive one more cent of American money until he begins the
peaceful, orderly transition to a democratically elected
government today.”  “Unmistakable Message’  The U.S. “must send the unmistakable message to Mubarak
and all dictators who are watching our response that we will not
continue to waste money propping up his tyranny,” Doggett
wrote.  Democratic Representative Jim Moran of Virginia also
suggested the U.S. should consider using money as a lever to
influence the Egyptian leader.  “If Mubarak doesn’t end the hostilities against unarmed
protesters, we should cut all military aid until he leaves
power,” Moran, a member of the House panel that controls
military spending, said in an e-mailed statement.  The current dispute over whether to limit aid to Egypt
echoes past debates in Congress that cut across party lines. At
various points over the last decade, Republicans and Democrats
have sought to slash funding for Egypt as a way of signaling
displeasure with Mubarak’s regime.  Ackerman, Doggett, Moran and Lowey all backed an
unsuccessful move five years ago to cut $100 million in Egypt
aid. The House turned back the attempt, 225-198.  Leahy said his preference now would be to redirect U.S. aid
to a new group of leaders in Egypt.  “What I’d like to be able to say is, ‘We’re in a position
to help the transitional government that has democratic values,
believes in democracy, but also believes in helping its own
people,’” Leahy said.  With assistance from Roxana Tiron in  Washington .  Editors: Don Frederick, Mark Silva  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at   or
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  