-- U.S. Calls China’s Progress on Currency Gains ‘Insufficient’
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2011-02-04T23:56:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/u-s-treasury-declines-to-name-china-a-currency-manipulator-as-yuan-rises.html
The U.S. declined to brand  China  a
currency manipulator while saying its No. 2 trading partner
has made “insufficient” progress on allowing the yuan to rise.  China should follow through on President Hu Jintao’s
commitments to allow more exchange-rate flexibility and boost
domestic demand, the Treasury Department said in a report to
Congress yesterday on foreign-exchange markets.  The yuan “remains substantially undervalued,” according
to the report, which was originally due in October and says no
major trading partner meets the legal standard of improperly
manipulating its currency. “It is in China’s interest to allow
the nominal exchange rate to appreciate more rapidly.”  The Obama administration and U.S. lawmakers say China’s
currency policy gives the nation’s exporters an unfair
competitive advantage. U.S. concerns have grown as China’s
rising economic power put the economic relationship off balance.
China had a $252 billion  trade surplus  with the U.S. in the
first 11 months of 2010, according to Commerce Department data.  “The Treasury will continue to closely monitor” the pace
of appreciation, the department said in a statement.  Senator  Charles Schumer , Democrat from  New York , said
Congress needs to take bolder action. “It’s as plain as the
nose on your face that China manipulates its currency,” he said
after the report was released. “It’s just as plain that the
only way to address this problem is for Congress to act.”  The yuan climbed 0.17 percent to 6.5920 per dollar as of
10:15 a.m. on Feb. 1 in  Shanghai , according to the China Foreign
Exchange Trade System. That was the biggest jump since Jan. 14.
Financial markets in China,  Taiwan  and South Korea were shut
most of this past week for the Chinese New Year holidays.  Having Its Cake  “Treasury gets to have its cake and eat it too,” said  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in New York. “They can call China’s
currency undervalued and say it is in its interest for it to
appreciate, and yet avoid being overly critical by naming China
a manipulator which could hurt relations with a very important
trading partner.”  Senator Sherrod Brown, an Ohio Democrat who has been among
the lawmakers pushing for a tougher U.S. stance on the yuan,
said the currency’s progress is “inadequate.” Senator  Max Baucus  criticized the “failure” of Treasury to label China a
manipulator. Both senators called for Congress to act this year.  Geithner Comments  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said last month that
China needs to strengthen the “substantially undervalued” yuan
because it puts other countries at a competitive disadvantage.
The report uses the same phrase to describe the currency and
describes an “essentially unchanged level of China’s real
effective exchange rate” in global terms that puts pressure on
other emerging market economies.  As of Jan. 27, the yuan had appreciated 3.7 percent
against the dollar, or at an annual rate of about 6 percent in
nominal terms, the Treasury said in the report. The currency has
been appreciating more rapidly after taking into account China’s
higher inflation rate, the report said.    Nicholas Lardy , a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute
for International Economics in  Washington , said China’s external
current account surplus has been declining in a way that could
mean “it gets harder to argue that they need to accelerate the
pace” of yuan appreciation. China’s current account surplus was
5.2 percent of its gross domestic product last year.  The Treasury described a “multispeed” global recovery in
which emerging market nations grew faster than advanced
economies. Commodity prices posted a “steady rise,” while
sovereign debt concerns led to rising interest rates in some
European economies.  ‘Rigid’ Exchange Rates  China isn’t the only nation that needs to allow more
currency flexibility, the Treasury said. Some countries have put  capital controls  in place to maintain “rigid” exchange rates,
pushing capital to other, more flexible economies and “leading
in some cases to overvalued exchange rates,” the report said.  It cited  South Korea  in particular as a country that should
reduce its exchange-rate controls.  “Given the strength of the Korean recovery, rebuilding of
reserves, and the rebound of the current account surplus, there
is room for a greater degree of exchange rate flexibility and
less intervention,” the report said.  The report includes data and developments through
January 2011 and it officially covers international economic and
foreign exchange developments in 2010. The Treasury’s next
report is due in mid-April.  Twice Yearly Report  Under a 1988 law, the Treasury is required to report to
Congress twice a year on international economic conditions and
exchange-rate policies. The Treasury is required to enter direct
talks with a country deemed to be manipulating its currency, and
also seek redress through the  International Monetary Fund . The
last country labeled a manipulator was China, in 1994.  The U.S. has also been pressing for China to open its
markets through other policy changes. The Obama administration
said in December that China has failed to implement “important
commitments” under its obligations to the  World Trade
Organization .  China is using “excessive, trade-distorting government
intervention” to the disadvantage of American companies, the
U.S. Trade Representative’s office said Dec. 23 in its annual
report on China’s compliance with WTO rules.  In September, the U.S. filed a WTO complaint against China
concerning curbs on payment-processing companies such as
MasterCard Inc. and Visa Inc. that are at a disadvantage because
China favors a monopoly provider, China UnionPay Data Co.,
according to the U.S. trade office.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net 
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 