-- U.S. Awards $27 Million to Reduce Cost of Solar Energy Systems
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2011-02-04T22:16:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/u-s-awards-27-million-in-sunshot-program-to-reduce-cost-of-solar-energy.html
The U.S. Department of Energy awarded
about $27 million to nine companies developing technology aimed
at making  solar energy  more affordable.  The agency said its long-term goal is to cut the cost of
utility-scale solar projects by 75 percent by 2020, to $1 a
watt, according to a  statement  today.  Making solar systems more cost-effective would help meet
President Barack Obama’s goal of generating 80 percent of U.S.
electricity from renewable energy, natural gas, nuclear and so-
called clean coal, Energy Secretary Steven Chu said in a
conference call today.  The energy department  awarded  $20.1 million in grants under
its SunShot program to companies that are working to reduce the
costs of solar energy.  North Lexington, Massachusetts-based 1366 Technologies Inc.
received $3 million; St. Paul, Minnesota-based 3M Co. received
$4.4 million; Pittsburgh-based  PPG Industries Inc . received $3.1
million; and Gloucester, Massachusetts-based  Varian
Semiconductor Equipment Associates Inc . and Plainview, New York-
based  Veeco Instruments Inc . each received $4.8 million. The
final amounts may vary, and the agency said it may award a total
of as much as $20.3 million.  Four California companies  were awarded  $7 million under the
department’s Photovoltaic Solar Incubator Program, which
supports the commercialization of emerging solar technologies.  Pasadena-based Caelux, San Jose-based Solexant Corp. and
Menlo Park-based Stion Corp. will each receive $1 million to
develop viable prototypes over the next year. Santa Clara-based
Crystal Solar Inc. will receive as much as $4 million to develop
a pilot stage manufacturing process.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 