-- U.S. Increases Pressure to Speed Up Mubarak Departure
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g ,   I n d i r a   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2011-02-04T17:17:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/u-s-increases-pressure-on-egypt-military-to-accelerate-mubarak-departure.html
The Obama administration is
increasingly counting on the Egyptian military to contain
violence in the country and help accelerate President  Hosni Mubarak ’s departure, as the U.S. braces for growing protests.  President  Barack Obama ’s advisers have concluded that the
longer Mubarak remains as Egypt’s head of government, the more
strident the Egyptian political opposition will become,
according to specialists on the region consulted by the
administration. The U.S. is pressing through multiple channels
for Mubarak to surrender power soon.  Egyptian Vice President  Omar Suleiman  may already have
signaled that Mubarak is about to be sidelined. Amr Hamzawy, an
Egyptian political scientist who has been with demonstrators in
the streets of Cairo, said he and others have discussed a plan
offered by Suleiman that includes delegating Mubarak’s authority
to manage the transition.  Mubarak would stay in office during a six-month transition
as “more or less an honorary president,” Hamzawy told a forum
on  Egypt  at the  Carnegie Endowment for International Peace  in
Washington by telephone yesterday. “This is a face-saving
solution, which is to my mind widely accepted in Egypt among
many people.”  Mubarak Rejects Demands  Mubarak, 82, showed no signs of obliging yesterday,
rejecting demands that he step down immediately in an interview
with ABC News and saying he feared “there will be chaos” if he
quits. The U.S. doesn’t “understand the Egyptian culture and
what would happen if I step down now,” he said.  The demonstrators haven’t been placated by Mubarak’s offer
to not seek re-election in September and to begin a process of
constitutional reforms. Along with Mubarak’s immediate
resignation, the opposition’s list of demands includes a re-run
of parliamentary elections, amending of the constitution by the
new legislature, and a lifting of the emergency law.  The Obama administration believes only a clear signal of an
immediate change will forestall a rising risk that violence that
marked protests yesterday in Egypt could spin out of control, an
administration official said, speaking on condition of anonymity
to discuss internal debates.  Transition Proposal  The U.S. is discussing with Egyptian officials a proposal
that would have Mubarak step down immediately and turn over
power to a transitional government headed by Suleiman and
supported by the Egyptian military, the New York Times reported,
citing unidentified administration officials and Arab diplomats.
That plan is one of several proposals under discussion and some
officials said there isn’t yet an indication Suleiman or the
military is ready to abandon Mubarak, the Times reported.  “We have discussed with the Egyptians a variety of
different ways to move” the transition process ahead, “but all
of those decisions must be made by the Egyptian people,” Tommy Vietor, a spokesman for Obama’s National Security Council, said
in an e-mailed response to questions.  In Cairo today, which protesters called the “day of
departure” for Mubarak, Egyptians crowded into Tahrir Square
after Friday prayer services. Demonstrators vowed they won’t
back down. Anti-government protests also were held in other
cities including Luxor and Alexandria.  Hardening Opposition  The U.S. doesn’t “see a transition going smoothly with
Mubarak as the titular head of state,” said Brian Katulis, a
Mideast specialist at the  Center for American Progress  in
Washington who is among a number of outsiders who have advised
members of the National Security Council on Egypt this week. The
administration recognizes that the “longer protests go on, the
harder the opposition’s demands will get,” he said.  Admiral Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
said the spread of the upheaval from  Tunisia  to Egypt last week
was unexpected.  “It has taken not just us but many people by surprise,”
said Mullen, who is Obama’s top military adviser, yesterday on
Comedy Central television channel’s   Daily Show  with Jon Stewart” program. “The timing of it certainly caught us.”  The administration was warned about instability in Egypt at
the “end of last year,” Stephanie O’Sullivan, a Central
Intelligence Agency official, told the Senate Select Committee
on Intelligence at a hearing yesterday on her nomination to be
principal deputy director of national intelligence.  Economic Impacts  “Our experts have been closely following the drivers of
change from economic instability and conditions to the youth
bulge in these areas and other societal factors that underlie
the current crisis,” O’Sullivan said. “We didn’t know what the
triggering mechanism would be.”  The analysis took in the economic impacts, and  energy
security  “is a huge driver of that,” she said.  The escalating conflict has led to concern about disruption
to oil shipments through the  Suez Canal . Crude rose 0.3 percent
to $90.84 a barrel at 12:20 p.m. in  London , extending its
increase since Jan. 27 to almost 6 percent. Dubai’s benchmark
stock index fell 3.8 percent last week. Egypt’s stock market and
banking system have been closed for a week, shielding the
Egyptian pound, which traded at about 5.86 per dollar on Jan.
27.  One key player is the Egyptian military, which is one of
the most respected institutions in Egypt and Mubarak’s original
power base. The U.S. has deep connections there through more
than three decades of assistance, including weapons sales and
training of more than 500 Egyptian military officers per year in
the U.S.  Military  Mubarak appointed three military officers in a Cabinet
reshuffle over the weekend. In addition to Suleiman, a former
army officer and intelligence chief, Mubarak named Prime
Minister Ahmed Shafik, a former Air Force commander, and Deputy
Prime Minister Mohammed Hussein Tantawi, an army field marshal
and also defense minister.  Publicly and privately, the U.S. has been communicating
with the Egyptian armed forces. Obama made a point of
complimenting their “professionalism and patriotism” in
responding to Mubarak’s Feb. 1 announcement that he wouldn’t
seek re-election. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  yesterday
urged the army to protect anti-Mubarak demonstrators.  ‘The administration has adopted a policy that can only be
described as bold -- and risky,” Robert Satloff, executive
director of the  Washington Institute for Near East Policy , wrote
in an e-mailed analysis. “At its core is a reliance on the
Egyptian military to perform its national duty and remove
Mubarak from power.”  Public Pressure  Vice President  Joe Biden  phoned Suleiman yesterday to urge
that “credible, inclusive negotiations begin immediately” for
a transition to “a democratic government,” the White House
said in a statement.  Clinton added public pressure, urging the Egyptian
government “to begin immediately serious negotiations on a
peaceful and orderly transition.”  The  U.S. Senate  last night approved a resolution that calls
on Mubarak to “immediately” start a peaceful transition to a
new democratic government, including allowing Egyptians to form
independent political parties.  Separately, Senator Patrick Leahy, a Vermont Democrat who
is chairman of the panel that controls foreign aid, said he’s
prepared to stop all U.S. financial assistance to Egypt -- which
topped $1.5 billion last year -- unless Mubarak steps aside
immediately and allows a transitional government to take over.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in  Washington  at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
Indira Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 