-- UBS May Be Sued by SEC Over Marketing of Puerto Rico Closed-End Bond Funds
-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m   a n d   D a v i d   E v a n s
-- 2011-02-04T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/ubs-may-be-sued-by-sec-over-marketing-puerto-rico-closed-end-bond-funds.html
  UBS AG  may be sued by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission over the sale of mutual funds
that bought $1.5 billion in bonds  Switzerland ’s largest bank had
underwritten in Puerto Rico.  The SEC’s Miami office issued a Wells notice to UBS
Financial Services Inc. of Puerto Rico and UBS Financial
Services Inc. regarding “secondary market trading and
associated disclosures” of closed-end funds sold in the
Caribbean island in 2008 and 2009, the Zurich-based firm said in
a  report to investors . The notification typically lets
recipients respond to investigators’ claims before the agency
approves legal action. The SEC may decide to not pursue a case.  UBS, a former financial adviser to the island’s Employees
Retirement System that provides pensions for government workers,
led the 2008 sale of $2.9 billion in bonds by the pension fund.
The sale produced $27 million in fees for the Swiss bank and its
co-underwriters. A UBS manager bought $1.5 billion of the
securities and put them into 20 mutual funds, also sold by the
bank. The bonds represented about 17 percent of the funds’ $8.9
billion in assets at the time.  “The whole thing from the ground up was riddled with
conflicts of interest that could only work to the advantage of
UBS and not in the interest of investors,”  James Cox , professor
of law at  Duke University School of Law  in Durham,  North
Carolina , said in an interview. “These Wells notices tend to
not go away easily, and there is a lot of pressure on the
enforcement side to turn these cases around quickly.”  Hector Mayol, the administrator of the Puerto Rico pension
fund, said in an interview that the SEC last year requested
documents concerning UBS’s underwriting of the bonds, which he
has provided.  UBS Responds  The SEC has issued similar Wells notices to some current
and prior employees of UBS that the firm didn’t identify,
according to fund reports posted on the bank’s website.  “UBS believes the funds have been excellent long-term
investments for investors and has submitted a formal response
outlining the reasons why it believes no enforcement action is
warranted,”  Karina Byrne , a spokeswoman for UBS, said in an e-
mailed statement. “The firm also maintains that the negative
financial results, if any, to shareholders of the funds who
traded their shares through UBS during the relevant periods were
less than $5 million in the aggregate.”  That amount is less than 1 percent of the value of the
funds purchased in the secondary market, according to Byrne. UBS
said in its report to investors that the Wells Notice “does not
relate to the management of the funds themselves.”    John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC in  Washington ,
declined to comment.  Bond Ratings  The bonds, backed by anticipated future government
contributions to the pension fund, were rated one step above
junk by Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings. The funds, which include the  Puerto Rico  Fixed Income
Fund Inc., are closed-end, meaning UBS doesn’t agree to buy back
the shares for customers who want to cash out. UBS publishes
prices for the shares, which aren’t traded on an exchange like
most closed-end funds, in investor reports, and there are no
public records of trading volumes or prices.  The Puerto Rican Employees fund had assets of $1.9 billion
and liabilities of $18.9 billion as of June 2009, leaving it 90
percent underfunded.  Bloomberg Markets magazine, in its April 2009 issue,
reported on the multiple roles played by UBS in Puerto Rico as
adviser to the pension fund, underwriter of its bonds and
manager of the mutual fund portfolios that purchased the bonds.  Conway MacKenzie Inc., a Birmingham, Michigan-based
consulting firm hired by the pension to investigate why it’s
running out of money, wrote in an October report that the
transaction ended up hurting the fund.  ‘Inherently Flawed’  “The $3 billion pension obligation bond transaction was
inherently flawed, misconceived and speculative as a mechanism
to improve the system’s funding ratio,” the firm said. “It
merely provided a short-term temporary cash measure which
blindly guided decision makers despite many warning signs. The
negative arbitrage and fees paid actually worsened the funding
position.”  The Conway Mackenzie report was commissioned last June by
Mayol, who became the administrator of the pension fund in 2009,
after the pension bonds were issued.  Mutual fund shareholders, including the retirement fund
Union de Empleados de Muelles de Puerto Rico PRSSA Welfare Plan,
sued UBS in February 2010, saying the firm breached its
fiduciary duty to investors by reaping fees on the bond offering
while charging fund fees including a 4.75 percent upfront
commission. They claim damages worth “tens of millions of
dollars, and likely substantially higher.”  Byrne said UBS has filed a motion to dismiss the case and
said the allegations are “without merit.”  “Mutual funds managed by UBS operate in accordance with
all applicable laws and disclosure requirements, including with
respect to the oversight and management of any potential
conflicts of interest,” she said.  Fund Returns  The $368 million  Puerto Rico Fixed Income Fund  produced an
annual return of 5.4 percent to investors in the five years
ended Sept. 30, according to the investor report posted on UBS’s
website. The $411 million Puerto Rico Fixed Income Fund II
averaged 5.6 percent returns in the same period.  Funds established in Puerto Rico and sold only to residents
of the island aren’t required to register with the SEC. They’re
also exempt from the Investment Company Act of 1940, so they
avoid that law’s restrictions on transactions between funds and
their managers.  UBS, now led by Chief Executive Officer Oswald Gruebel,
suffered the largest loss in Swiss corporate history in 2008
after bets on U.S. mortgage-backed securities backfired. In
2009, UBS avoided prosecution in the U.S. by paying $780 million
and admitting it helped thousands of Americans evade taxes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net ;
David Evans in  Los Angeles  at 
 davidevans@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 