-- Lower Jobless Rate Points to U.S. Payroll Gains
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2011-02-04T20:40:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/unemployment-drop-indicates-u-s-payrolls-about-to-pick-up-economists-say.html
The plunge in U.S. unemployment over
the past two months indicates payrolls are about to pick up, or
may already have, economists said.  The jobless rate unexpectedly dropped by 0.4 percentage
point in January for a second month, bringing it down to 9
percent, the lowest level since April 2009, the Labor
Department’s survey of households showed today in  Washington .
The survey showed employment climbed by 589,000, swamping the
36,000 increase in payrolls reported by the government’s
separate poll of employers.  While there is evidence that the payroll count may have
been depressed by bad weather, that influence alone isn’t enough
to explain the gap, economists said. The household survey is
best able to capture employment in new business and also takes
into account Americans who work for themselves, two areas that
may be accelerating as the world’s largest economy improves.  “The household survey has a history of leading payrolls in
a recovery, so we’re setting ourselves up for a pretty strong
improvement in payrolls,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist
at Pierpont Securities LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “The
numbers that look weak on the surface now will turn more robust
by the March-April-May period. There’s ample evidence that firms
are getting more comfortable about adding workers.”  Corroborating Evidence  The improvement underlying the drop in the unemployment
rate is in sync with reports that show the economy is gathering
momentum, which in turn would bolster job growth in coming
months. Gains in income-tax receipts, the downward trend in
claims for jobless benefits, and employment measures in surveys
like the ones from the  Institute for Supply Management 
corroborate the brighter outlook, said Dean Maki of Barclays
Capital Inc.  “The unemployment rate has tended to be a more trustworthy
measure over time,” said Maki, who is chief U.S. economist at
Barclays in New York. “Job growth is likely stronger than
recent payroll numbers have printed. The payrolls tend to
undercount job losses in recessions, but also undercount job
gains when the labor market picks up.”  In addition, the  unemployment rate  is subject to much
smaller revisions over time than the payroll count, Maki said,
making it a better gauge of long-term trends.  Payrolls Revised  A case in point: Revisions added 40,000 jobs to the
combined November and December payroll count, today’s report
showed. The government also reduced employment by 378,000
workers for the 12 months ended in March after taking into
account employer tax records that are only available with a lag.  One set of figures not subject to revision is the Treasury
Department’s data on receipts from income taxes. And those
numbers are giving a more positive signal, said  Carl Riccadonna ,
a senior economist at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in  New York .  The amount of money deducted from paychecks was up 5.2
percent at the start of this month from February 2010, according
to Riccadonna’s calculations. That exceeds the Labor
Department’s measure of weekly earnings, which showed a 2.5
percent year-over-year increase in January.  “That tells me the trend in payroll revisions is going to
be higher,” Riccadonna said.  To be sure, the household survey is a more volatile,
noisier series than the payroll survey, said Raymond Stone,
managing director of Stone & McCarthy Research Associates in
Skillman,  New Jersey , so “we have to be careful interpreting
it.” The government surveys about 60,000 households each month
compared with about 400,000 worksites.  Leading Index  Nonetheless, “there is some justification in thinking that
the household survey does run ahead of the payroll survey,”
said Stone, whose 55,000 employment forecast was the closest
among 85 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “We are on a path to see stronger payroll growth in the
future,” he said. “We are also on a path to see a still-lower
unemployment rate. Most economists at the beginning of the year
forecast we will end this year around 9 percent, but I think we
will be substantially below that.”  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is among policy
makers still concerned the pickup in growth is failing to spur
hiring, one reason why central bankers have said they will carry
on with a plan to pump another $600 billion into the economy.  “Until we see a sustained period of stronger  job creation ,
we cannot consider the recovery to be truly established,”
Bernanke said yesterday in a speech at the  National Press Club 
in Washington. “It will be several years before the
unemployment rate has returned to a more normal level.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at +1-202-624-1888 or
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at +1-202-624-1862 or
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  