-- Unemployment Drop May Not Deter Fed From Carrying Out Stimulus
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2011-02-04T19:47:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/unemployment-drop-may-not-deter-federal-reserve-from-carrying-out-stimulus.html
The unexpected drop in the U.S.
jobless rate reported today probably won’t dissuade  Federal
Reserve  policy makers from carrying out their program to pump
$600 billion into the economy, economists said.  U.S. central bankers are deemphasizing the unemployment
rate and are taking a broader look at the health of the labor
market, said  Vincent Reinhart , the Fed’s chief monetary policy
strategist from 2001 until September 2007. That gives them
flexibility to alter their easing program in response to changes
in other indicators, including payroll growth, he said.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday he needs to see “a
sustained period of stronger job creation” before he deems the
recovery firmly established. The Fed’s Jan. 26 statement said
the recovery “has been insufficient to bring about a
significant improvement in labor market conditions,” expanding
its focus beyond the jobless rate.  “They shifted their rhetoric because they don’t want to be
hung out on the  unemployment rate ,” Reinhart said.  Unemployment in January fell to 9 percent, the lowest level
since April 2009, the Labor Department said today. The drop from
November’s 9.8 percent rate represented the biggest
two-month decline since 1958.  The drop in unemployment probably isn’t enough to satisfy
Bernanke and most of his colleagues, said Roberto Perli, who
until July was a member of the Fed Board’s Monetary Affairs
Division staff.  Among the indicators that may give them pause: Employers
added fewer than 100,000 workers to payrolls a month on average
last year, the labor force participation rate has fallen to the
lowest level since 1984, and 6.2 million people have been
looking for a job for more than half a year.  Job Creation  “It seems to me that we’ve got at least 12 months ahead of
us before the Fed feels comfortable in terms of a sustained
period of job creation because that’s really what they
require,”  Bill Gross , manager of the world’s largest bond fund
at Pacific Investment Management Co., said in an interview today
on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene.  “Unless we see that sustained level, that virtuous circle
that basically he spoke to, the Fed’s not going to raise  interest rates ,” he said.  Employment rose last month by 36,000 workers, the smallest
gain in four months, after a 121,000 rise in December that was
larger than initially reported.  “An employment report like this is a Rorschach test,”
said Reinhart, now a resident scholar at the  American Enterprise
Institute  in  Washington .  Quantitative Easing  Fed officials who want to end the Fed’s program to buy $600
billion in  Treasury securities  through June will point to the
unemployment rate as a justification, he said. Advocates of the
program, called quantitative easing, will point to payrolls.  Joblessness rose above 9 percent in May 2009, beginning the
longest period of unemployment at that level or higher since
monthly records began in 1948.  Revisions to previous unemployment reports showed the
economy lost 8.75 million jobs as a result of the recession. For
all of 2010, the U.S. added about 909,000 jobs.  In November policy makers expected the unemployment rate to
fall to 8.9 percent to 9.1 percent in the fourth quarter of
2011. Average hourly earnings rose 0.4 percent in January, the
highest since November 2008.  Bernanke said yesterday in a speech in Washington that job
gains at companies last year “were barely sufficient to
accommodate the inflow of recent graduates and other new
entrants to the  labor force  and, therefore, not enough to
significantly reduce the overall unemployment rate.”  Several Years  “With output growth likely to be moderate for a while and
with employers reportedly still reluctant to add to their
payrolls, it will be several years before the unemployment rate
has returned to a more normal level,” Bernanke said.  Central bankers likely remain wary about improvements in
the jobless rate as other aspects of the employment report, such
as the labor force participation rate, remain grim, James Glassman, senior U.S. economist at  JPMorgan Chase & Co ., said
today on “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  “If you’re sitting at the Fed, you’re not going to be
happy with this kind of trend because it’s yet another indirect
sign that there’s not enough going on in the job market to keep
people in or pull people in,” Glassman said.  -- With assistance from Bob Willis, Alex Kowalski and Shobhana
Chandra in Washington and  Tom Keene  in  New York . Editors: James Tyson, Christopher Wellisz  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  