-- Usher Strips for All-Night Love Calls, Fails to Shine on Stage
-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 2011-02-04T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/usher-strips-for-all-night-love-calls-fails-to-shine-on-stage.html
Usher  has sold more than 45 million
albums. He has been voted one of the sexiest men in music.  The 32-year-old U.S. pop-soul singer knows it.  He enters wearing a cyber costume and then changes to a
military-man corset and a red leather jacket. The ladies scream.
He invokes the ghost of  Michael Jackson . More screams. He strips
off the jacket. He’s got a great way with a pop hook and the
sweetest voice, with just enough of an edge and no need for
nasty electronic studio effects.  What could possibly go wrong? His sculpted pectorals
glisten with sweat, his falsetto soars, his gem-encrusted
trainers dazzle. For all this, Usher fails to shine with his
live show, which is more a display of technique than of raw
charisma.  Usher’s 70-date worldwide OMG tour, as seen at concerts in  London ’s  O2 , is criss-crossing  Europe  this month, moving on to
Dubai and Australia next month and  New Zealand  in April.  The tempo is frequently smoochy, Usher indulging in slow
exhortations to all-night loving. “Love In This Club” sounds not
so much romantic as hygienic.  Usher’s show is polished, a little too slick. The band is
professional, hits flow and dancers grind.  “Yeah!” marries stark hip hop beats, wobblesome bass and
insidious chorus in Jackson fashion. The staging, after a clumsy
overkill of science-fiction imagery for the uptempo opening, is
a masterpiece of multimedia design, an immaculate backdrop to
Usher’s yearnings.  For all his musical insinuations to the contrary, Usher
remains too clean, planned and safe to channel any real
superstar presence.  Rating: **.  Usher is on LaFace Records, part of  Sony Music
Entertainment . Information:  http://www.ushernow.com/     Robert Heller  is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Robert Heller in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 