-- HMV Rises on Reports Mamut, Permira Consider Breakup
-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 2011-02-04T16:48:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/hmv-rises-on-reports-mamut-permira-consider-breakup-update1-.html
  HMV Group Plc , the U.K.’s biggest
retailer of DVDs and CDs, rose in London trading after Sky News
said a shareholder was looking at options including a breakup of
the company.  HMV climbed 8.8 percent. Alexander Mamut hired  Credit
Suisse Group AG  to consider options, Sky News reported, without
attribution. Mamut may also consider a purchase of its
Waterstone’s bookstore unit, Sky said.  Separately, Retail Week said Permira Advisers LLP was
considering a possible offer. Roger Parry, who was involved with
the leveraged buyout firm’s 2006 bid for HMV, may be working
with Permira, the trade magazine said. Chris Davison, a Permira
spokesman, said the firm had no comment on the report.  HMV could be worth between 141 million pounds ($228
million) and 186 million pounds in a breakup, yet only to a
third party, Oriel Securities analysts led by Ben Hunt wrote in
a Jan. 31 note to investors. A publicly traded company would
find it hard to exit HMV leases as they expire, a step which may
become necessary if sales densities keep dropping, they wrote.  “In order to recognize HMV’s intrinsic value, it is
necessary for a third party to take a controlling stake in the
company,” wrote the Oriel analysts, who have a “sell”
recommendation on HMV.  HMV increased 2 pence to 24.75 pence. The shares have
declined 23 percent so far this year, giving it a market value
of 104.8 million pounds.  The Maidenhead, England-based company is closing 60 stores
after saying that an April banking covenant test will be
“tight” following disappointing holiday-season sales. An HMV
spokesman, Paul Barker, said last month that Waterstone’s has
not been put up for sale.  An outside spokesman for HMV who wouldn’t allow his name to
be used, citing the company’s policy, said the retailer had no
comment on the reports. Mamut, owner of  Russia ’s OAO Polymetal,
owns 6.1 percent of HMV’s shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  