-- Verizon, AT&T Pension Switch May Amplify Profit Swings
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2011-02-04T22:28:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/verizon-at-t-pension-switch-may-exacerbate-swings-in-profit.html
  Verizon Communications Inc . and  AT&T
Inc .’s move to change the way they account for pension costs may
increase the volatility of earnings if the economy hits another
recession, accountants say.  The companies said last month they will record gains or
losses on pension assets in the year they occur, rather than
spreading them out over several years as they’ve done in the
past, to provide more transparency. The new approach also let
the companies redistribute across previous quarters some $37.2
billion in expenses that may have hurt future earnings.  AT&T and Verizon may be left more vulnerable to swings in
the stock market, making some investors less willing to hold
their stock, said Robert Willens, head of the tax consulting
firm  Robert Willens  LLC in New York. A decline in pension
assets, like in 2008 when the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
tumbled 38 percent, would hit earnings in a single year, rather
than over ten or more years as in the past.  “These companies are not going to be able to spread the
loss over an extended period of time and blunt the impact” if
there’s a similar market drop in the future, said Willens,
previously a managing director in charge of tax and accounting
analysis at  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc . “Investors, in my
view, will shun the company’s stock because of the difficulty in
forecasting the company’s earnings.”  Verizon and AT&T, the largest U.S. phone companies, have
said the changes will make it easier for investors and analysts
to understand changes in their pension costs. The companies will
record changes in their pension funds in the fourth quarter of
each year.  Pension Obligations  Verizon fell 7 cents to $36.31 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading at 4 p.m. The shares have gained 1.5 percent
this year. AT&T, based in  Dallas , declined 2 cents to $27.97 and
dropped 4.8 percent this year.  Pension obligations are substantial for Verizon and AT&T
because of their history as part of the U.S. phone system that
was one of the country’s largest employers. Verizon had 222,900
employees and 213,000 retirees drawing benefits from the company
at the end of 2009. AT&T hasn’t disclosed comparable figures.  In October,  Craig Moffett , an analyst with Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in New York, calculated that the companies had
the largest underfunded pension and other post-retirement
benefit obligations among the  S&P 500  at the end of 2009. The
underfunded benefits totaled $28.7 billion for AT&T and $27.5
billion for Verizon, according to regulatory filings. The
companies haven’t yet released 2010 figures.  The accounting change won’t affect how much money the
carriers have to put in their pension accounts and the changes
in earnings won’t force them to dip into cash, said Bob Varettoni, a spokesman for New York-based Verizon.  Break Out Earnings  The change will tie the funds’ projections and performance
much more closely to the overall market and provide a more
transparent way of evaluating the companies, said Brooks
McCorcle, AT&T’s senior vice president of  investor relations .  AT&T and Verizon will probably break out earnings without
pension charges so investors can see the pension impact separate
from operations, said David Zion, a New York-based accounting
and taxation analyst at Credit Suisse AG.  “You’d want to highlight the volatility from the pension
plan,” Zion said. “You’ve got the core underlying results and
what’s going on in the pension.”  Recording drops in pension accounts -- which have to be
funded by about 90 percent or more of projected obligations --
won’t require companies to increase contributions to the funds,
Varettoni said. While the pensions are governed by generally
accepted accounting rules, the funding level requirements are
enforced by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, he said.  More Explicit  The new method will make companies’ pension investing a
higher-profile issue for investors, making explicit riskier and
safer strategies, Zion said.  “That could result in some behavior changes and might have
companies rethink the amount of chance that they’re taking in
their pension plans,” Zion said.  The fair value of Verizon’s pension fund assets shrank by
more than a third to $27.8 billion in 2008 from $42.7 billion
the year before. AT&T’s plan asset value shrank to $46.8 billion
in 2008 from $70.8 billion.  The new accounting approach will present challenges for
companies that adopt it, said Willens.  “The company’s story becomes more difficult to tell when
its earnings are so heavily influenced by non-operating items,”
he said. “It’s always preferable for earnings to be affected
only by operating factors rather than extraneous factors that
are difficult to predict with any accuracy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in  New York  at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  