-- Viking Hedge Fund’s Dris Upitis Said to Resign as Senior Manager
-- B y   G i l l i a n   W e e
-- 2011-02-04T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/viking-hedge-fund-s-dris-upitis-said-to-resign-from-investment-committee.html
Dris Upitis, one of four management
committee members at hedge fund Viking Global Investors LP,
resigned, the second high-level departure in 10 months after
Chief Investment Officer David Ott stepped down in April,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  Upitis and colleagues Tom Purcell, Dan Sundheim and Jim Parsons have overseen most of Viking’s $10 billion in capital
since Ott stepped down in April, said the people, who asked not
to be identified because the information isn’t public. Clients
were notified of Upitis’ resignation in a note last week, the
people said.  Upitis was an analyst at Greenwich, Connecticut-based
Viking Global for six years before being promoted to senior
portfolio manager last year. The firm is run by Andreas Halvorsen, one of the “Tiger Cubs” who helped build  Julian Robertson ’s Tiger Management LLC into the world’s biggest hedge-
fund group in the 1990s.  After losing 4 percent in the first six months of 2010,
Viking Global Equities gained 10 percent in the second half of
the year after the fund reshuffled the managers, the people
said. The long-short fund rose 3.8 percent last year, investors
were told in the letter. That trailed the 7 percent increase of
the BAIF Hedge Fund Index.  Halvorsen didn’t respond to two telephone messages left
with his office seeking comment. A person answering a number
listed for Upitis said he no longer works at the firm.  13% a Year  Viking, which Halvorsen founded with Ott and Brian Olson in
1999, returned an average of 13 percent annually in the decade
ended Dec. 31, one of the people said. Viking Global Equities
lost 1.9 percent in 2008, when the Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
bankruptcy triggered the global financial crisis, and the fund
climbed 20 percent in 2009, the person said.  Halvorsen started a new fund two years ago to focus on
buying stocks after selling them short, or betting on price
declines, became more risky. The Viking Long Fund began trading
in January 2009 after raising about $80 million, the firm said
in a regulatory filing. The Viking Long Fund gained 14.5 percent
in 2010, one of the people said. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
of U.S. stocks returned 15 percent, including dividends.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gillian Wee in  New York  at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 