-- Virginia's Hispanics Garner Voting Clout as Numbers Increase, Census Shows
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 2011-02-04T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/virginia-s-hispanics-gain-clout-as-numbers-rise-census-shows.html
The Hispanic population in Virginia
surged in urban areas in the last 10 years, potentially
transforming key voting districts in the swing state, a shift
detailed in  2010 U.S. Census  numbers released yesterday.  The number of Hispanics increased 91.7 percent from a
decade ago, with most of the growth in the suburbs outside  Washington , as well as in Richmond and the Norfolk-Virginia
Beach metropolitan area, Census Bureau figures show. The
changing demographics, which helped Barack Obama win the state
in the 2008 presidential election, underscore how communities
across the country are becoming increasingly diverse.  Hispanics are the fastest growing part of the American
electorate, and not just in states such as  Florida ,  New York  and  Texas , said Fernand Amandi, a Miami-based political consultant
and pollster.  “Almost every state in the union is now being impacted by
the Hispanic vote,” Amandi said.  That’s likely to benefit Democrats. Hispanic voters have
picked Democrats over Republicans by a ratio of about 2-to-1 in
the past three national elections.  Virginia ’s 631,825 Hispanics
make up 7.9 percent of the state’s population of 8 million, up
from 4.7 percent in 2000.  The census data provide the first detailed look at changes
in state population demographics since 2000. Virginia,
Louisiana,  New Jersey  and Mississippi are the first to receive
census figures because their election cycles are among the
earliest in the U.S.  Mirror of U.S.  The rise in the foreign-born population in Virginia’s urban
areas mirrors trends in other parts of the U.S., said  Lisa Ann
Sturtevant , an assistant professor at George Mason University in
Arlington, Virginia, who specializes in demographics.  New immigrants are going to places they hadn’t gone before,
such as Northern Virginia, Salt Lake City and  Charlotte ,  North
Carolina , Sturtevant said. And “Hispanics tend to be more
Democratic,” she said.  Still, Hispanics, who come from various countries in
Central and  South America , aren’t a “monolithic, well-
organized” group of voters with deep-seated loyalties to any
one party, unlike black voters, said  Nathan Gonzales , political
editor of the nonpartisan  Rothenberg Political Report.   “They are closer to independents and being swayed by how
people in office are doing their jobs and how it affects them,”
Gonzales said.  Leaning Toward Democrats  The Hispanics settling in Northern Virginia are mostly from
Central American countries like El Salvador and  Guatemala ,
followed by  Mexico , according to Sturtevant.  Republican rhetoric and opposition to immigration policies
are among the issues that have pushed Latinos to vote for
Democrats. In November’s congressional elections, House
Democrats won 60 percent of the Hispanic vote, compared with 38
percent for Republicans, while Latino voters were crucial to
Senate Democrats in the 2010 elections, helping to give the
party victories in California, Nevada and  Colorado .  Sturtevant said she expects to see a drop-off in the rate
of Hispanic population growth from the mid-2000s because of
stricter immigration policies and fewer construction jobs.  “When the  unemployment rate  in the U.S. goes up,
immigration goes down,” Sturtevant said.  The jobless rate in Virginia climbed to 6.7 percent at the
end of last year from 2.5 percent in January 2000, according to
the Department of Labor.  Diminishing White Population  The state’s overall population grew 13 percent during the
past decade, compared with 9.7 percent for the U.S., according
to government data released Dec. 22. The white population grew
7.2 percent, and now accounts for 68.6 percent of the state,
down from 72.3 percent in 2000. The black population rose 11.6
percent, and they now make up 19.4 percent of Virginians, little
changed from a decade ago.  The number of Asians grew 68.5 percent from 2000, and they
now make up 5.5 percent of the population, compared with 3.3
percent in 2000, a trend that may also have political
implications.  “The older, first-generation East Asians tend to be much
more Republican leaning,” largely because they are pro-
business, said Mark Rozell, a professor of public policy at  George Mason University . “But their children and grandchildren
are tilting heavily to the  Democratic Party .”  Drawing New Lines  Virginia must draw new district lines and pass a
redistricting plan, with Democrats controlling the state Senate
and Republicans the House, before August elections. Republican
Governor Robert McDonnell appointed a bipartisan panel to
oversee the process.  Dustin Cable , a policy associate at the Demographics and
Workforce Group at the University of Virginia’s  Weldon Cooper
Center for Public Service , said the Hispanic growth adds another
dimension to a national trend.  “It’s the classic urban-rural divide that’s been growing
in the country, not only in terms of population, but in terms of
diversity,” Cable said.  Census Bureau Director  Robert Groves  called it “the
suburbanization of the Hispanic population,” on a Feb. 2
conference call with reporters.  ‘National Importance’  Amandi, vice president of the Miami-based Bendixen & Amandi
polling firm, said Hispanic voters would be wooed across the
country.  “What used to be a regional and concentrated vote is now
becoming a vote of national importance,” he said. “That’s part
of the reason you see the Republicans now mounting an offense
again to try to go after that vote.”  Hispanics and other residents are being drawn to a
Washington metropolitan area that’s the wealthiest and best-
educated region of the past five years, according to census
estimates for 2005 through 2009. The only three communities with
median household incomes higher than $100,000 are in suburban
counties in Virginia.  Maryland , which also borders the nation’s
capital, saw income levels in Howard County grow at the eighth-
fastest pace in the U.S. since 2000.  The defense-contracting industry boosted wealth in Northern
Virginia and the Maryland counties near Washington.  The Washington suburbs are home to government contractors
such as Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp ., the
world’s largest defense company, and  General Dynamics Corp ., the
Falls Church, Virginia-based maker of Abrams tanks and
Gulfstream business jets.  The median household income in Arlington County jumped
$12,705 between 2000 and 2009, the biggest increase in the U.S.,
according to the Census Bureau. Two other Virginia suburbs --
Loudoun County and Alexandria City -- rounded out the top four
municipalities nationwide with income gains.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomoberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  