-- Wall Street’s Ways Make Jury Selection Tricky: Ann Woolner
-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 2011-02-04T02:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/wall-street-s-ways-make-jury-selection-tricky-commentary-by-ann-woolner.html
A hedge-fund billionaire who soon
will face a jury wants to know whether people hate  Wall Street .
Of course they do, and no wonder:  A money manager stands charged with threatening to kill
regulators.  Attorneys collecting money for victims of  Bernard Madoff 
accuse hedge-fund honchos of knowingly profiting from his  Ponzi
scheme . Citibank, HSBC Holdings and Bank of America’s Merrill
Lynch unit knew or should have known Madoff was a crook, say the
lawyers, led by trustee  Irving Picard . JPMorgan Chase “aided
and abetted” the scheme, they say in a lawsuit the bank calls
“meritless.” The other companies deny complicity, too.  In  bankruptcy court , all sorts of creditors, including
other banks, are suing Lehman Brothers Holdings, claiming it
cheated them out of millions of dollars. Lehman says it’s the
victim, not the perp.  And every few days, yet another financial whiz or business
expert pleads guilty to  insider trading .  Meantime, Wall Street geniuses whose reckless greed and
unregulated schemes sent the country into an economic tailspin
take home million-dollar bonuses while Americans lose their jobs
and their homes because of the crisis.  So it’s easy to understand why Raj Rajaratnam might have
trouble finding 12 sentient adults who don’t have a sour view of
him and his kind. The co-founder of Galleon Group LLC heads to
trial in  Manhattan  on Feb. 28, charged with insider trading.  Here’s one of the questions his lawyers want to ask
potential jurors: “Do today’s Wall Street executives lack
integrity?”  Are they kidding? Do they really want to know the depth and
breadth of public distrust of Wall Street?  Five-Point Scale  To try to keep that sort of bias out of the jury box, this
week they proposed to the judge a 15-page questionnaire for
prospective jurors that contain questions such as, “How honest
do you think Wall Street executives are?” Answers would be
given on a five-point scale, from “not at all honest” to
“extremely honest.”  They probably aren’t going to like what they find.  An NBC-Wall Street Journal poll last May  found  that 58
percent of Americans believe “corporate corruption and broker
practices” make markets unfair. A mere 35 percent believed
“the stock market is a fair and open way to invest one’s
money.”  I’m surprised trust in Wall Street was even that high.  There may have been worse times for an accused white-collar
criminal to come to trial, like after the 2001 and 2002
collapses of Enron, WorldCom and the rest. But this isn’t a
great time either.  Juror Test  It won’t be possible for Rajaratnam’s lawyers to insulate
the jury box from that kind of sentiment. Even would-be jurors
who admit harboring “strong” negative views about Wall Street,
as the questionnaire puts it, wouldn’t be automatically
eliminated.  The test is whether they can set those views aside to base
a verdict strictly on the evidence at trial. Few people will
admit that they can’t be fair. But when judges are convinced
that would-be jurors are too biased, they can kick them out of
the pool for cause.  On the other hand, when a judge declines to excuse an iffy
panelist, it falls to the lawyers to decide what to do. The
defense can boot such a person out by using one of the 10
“ peremptory ” strikes. If the jury pool contains more than 10
jurors whose views worry the defense, lawyers will have to
choose which ones concern them most.  (Prosecutors get six such challenges. They’ll be hunting
for people too sympathetic to Wall Street.)  Enron Experience  When former Enron chief executives  Jeffrey Skilling  and  Kenneth Lay  stood trial in Houston, the hometown of the
company’s rise and demise, their lawyers tried to weed out
potential jurors who displayed the sort of anti-Enron sentiment
that seemed to pervade the city.  One said she had lost $50,000 to $60,000 on Enron, but the
judge kept her in the pool until a defense lawyer removed her.  During argument over Skilling’s appeal last year, U.S.
Supreme Court Justice  Stephen Breyer  said he counted anywhere
from three to six potential jurors who admitted bias, yet the
judge didn’t dismiss them from the pool and often didn’t
sufficiently question them.  Still, the high court ruled 6-3 that pre-trial prejudice
wasn’t grounds for reversing Skilling’s conviction. (Breyer was
one of the three dissenters.)  Bear Stearns Case  At any rate, prosecutors can’t rely on juror prejudice to
carry their case. Some jurors who acquitted two Bear Stearns
hedge-fund managers in 2009 said afterwards that that’s exactly
what prosecutors were attempting, and they didn’t much like it.  The defendants,  Ralph Cioffi  and Matthew Tannin, “were
scapegoats for Wall Street” juror Serphaine Stimpson said
afterwards.  When the Rajaratnam trial opens, both sides will try to
seat a jury favorably predisposed to their claims. Given the
times, and the long list of Wall Streeters gone bad, that will
be harder for the defense than for prosecutors.    Ann Woolner  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ann Woolner in Atlanta at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  