-- Zimbabwe Diamond Export Plans Depend on `Credible' Anti-Smuggling Strategy
-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2011-02-04T11:12:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-04/zimbabwe-diamond-export-plans-depend-on-credible-anti-smuggling-plan.html
  Zimbabwe  must demonstrate how it will
prevent diamonds from its Marange fields being smuggled over the
border to  Mozambique  if it wants to freely export gems from the
deposit, which it mines minister says is the biggest diamond
discovery in a century.  Zimbabwe must “provide a credible anti-smuggling
enforcement plan” that includes cooperation with the government
of neighboring Mozambique,  the Kimberley Process said in
documents sent to Zimbabwe on Dec. 29 that were obtained by
Bloomberg.  The documents were confirmed as genuine by Mathieu Yamba,
current chairman of the Kimberley Process, in an interview today
from Kinshasa,  Democratic Republic of Congo . Zimbabwe has yet to
respond, he said, declining to comment further. The  Kimberley
Process  is an organization that includes governments and diamond
industry companies and is designed to reduce the trade of
diamonds used to finance conflicts.  The deposits in eastern Zimbabwe could generate $2 billion
in annual export income, the state-controlled Herald newspaper
cited mines minister Obert Mpofu as saying in October. Zimbabwe,
a member of the Process, isn’t certified to exports the gems
from the field because it has not met a standard to demonstrate
that proceeds from sales aren’t financing conflict.  Mpofu declined to comment when called today.  Zimbabwe’s government must also give the Kimberley Process
and the Kimberley Process  Local Focal Point , a coalition of
Zimbabwean civil rights organizations, “unfettered access” to
the Marange diamond fields, the Process states in the documents.  Diamond Smuggling  “If abuses or smuggling continue, then we would expect the
self-cessation mechanism in the KP agreement to come into play
and for Zimbabwe to immediately stop exports,”  Human Rights
Watch  Africa Researcher Tiseke Kasambala said in an e-mailed
statement from Johannesburg today.  Human Rights Watch, based in  New York , and Partnership
Africa Canada have said that proceeds from diamond smuggling are
helping to enrich allies of President Robert Mugabe and could
finance a violent election campaign by his Zimbabwe African
National Union-Patriotic Front party. Zanu-PF has denied
benefiting from gem smuggling.  Any violation reported to the Kimberley Process Work
Monitoring Group must put a stop to the export of diamonds
within seven days, the Process states in the documents.  Zimbabwe must also provide a clear time line during which
control of the Marange fields will be handed from the military
to the police, the agreement says.  The  World Diamond Council  yesterday said in a statement
that Zimbabwe will be able to export gems from Marange, which is
also known as Chiadzwa, if an agreement can be reached with the
Kimberley Process. Talks between Yamba and Zimbabwe are
currently being held, the council said, giving no further
details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Durban at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 