-- ‘Amazon of Russia’ Ozon.ru Boosts Sales 55%, Eyes Acquisitions
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-03-28T09:14:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/-amazon-of-russia-ozon-ru-boosts-sales-55-eyes-acquisitions.html
Ozon.ru, a Russian online shopping
site similar to  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , saw net sales by dollar value
rise 55 percent last year.  Revenue reached $250 million in 2012 and the number of
registered users increased to more than 14.5 million from 10.7
million, the company, which describes itself as “the Amazon.com
of  Russia ,” said in a statement today.  “Within the next five years when a Russian customer makes
an online purchase the majority of them will be doing so through
Ozon” or a related website, Chief Executive Officer Maelle Gavet said.  The company is looking into further acquisitions in e-
commerce segments where it’s not yet present, such as specialty
online stores on the model of Amazon’s diapers.com or soap.com,
Gavet said this week in an interview in Moscow.  Initial public offerings by social network operator  Mail.ru
Group Ltd (MAIL)  and search-engine provider  Yandex NV (YNDX)  “spurred
investor interest in the Russian Internet, leading to massive
investments in e-commerce projects,” intensifying competition
over the past two years, Gavet said.  Ozon also plans to expand in fashion and in attracting
smaller stores to use the company’s infrastructure, according to
France-born Gavet. The Moscow-based company raised $100 million
from investors in 2011 and used it to expand, buying online
shoes-retailer Sapato.ru and building a warehouse in Tver.  Ozon’s largest shareholder is Baring Vostok  Capital
Partners , which was also an early investor in Yandex.  Ozon began in 1998 by selling books online, then expanded
into goods ranging from electronics to toys. Unlike Amazon, the
unpredictability of the Russian postal service means Ozon has
its own delivery service, O-Courier. And it offers travel
services, selling airline tickets and hotels booking online.  Amazon, the world’s largest Internet retailer, hasn’t
established a Russian-language site. Amazon bought online shoes-
retailer Zappos.com in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  