-- Aberdeen, Manulife Seek More Independent Boards: Southeast Asia
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2013-03-28T16:30:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/aberdeen-manulife-seek-more-independent-boards-southeast-asia.html
Southeast Asia ’s companies need to
add more independent directors to their boards and boost
diversity to attract foreign investors including  Aberdeen Asset
Management Plc (ADN)  and Manulife Asset Management.  One of the biggest obstacles is strengthening the roles of
independent directors because many publicly traded companies in
the region are family-owned, Stephen Schuster, a financial
sector specialist at the  Asian Development Bank , said in an
interview yesterday from Manila. Other challenges include
disclosure and cross-border dispute resolution, he said.  Singapore, ranked Asia’s best in corporate governance by
the  Asia Corporate Governance Association  or ACGA, requires
publicly traded companies to have independent directors make up
one-third of their boards. That compares with 20 percent for the
 Philippines , with family businesses representing 83 percent of
its stock market, and Indonesia, which only asks for one
unaffiliated director and 30 percent independence among
commissioners, the trade group said.  “First, there needs to be a sufficient supply of well-
trained independent directors, and second, to make sure their
voices are heard,” Schuster said. “This is ever more
challenging given the recognition that international standards
favor  term limits  for independent directors.”  Aberdeen Asset sees room for improvement in board diversity
in terms of background in the region,  David Smith , head of
corporate governance, said in a March 27 interview. Manulife,
with $238 billion in global assets, expects increased role of
independent directors to improve transparency.  Insufficient Directors  Countries with a small number of public companies or those
dominated by family-owned businesses may not have produced
enough independent directors, prompting rules that don’t require
a higher number of unaffiliated board members, Schuster said.  Asian corporations fare the worst in board independence,
with about 40 percent of firms in Singapore and the Philippines
having three or more family members on the board, ACGA analysts
led by Amar Gill wrote in a September  report .  Still, shares of Southeast Asian markets gained this year,
making up four of the world’s 10 best performers in U.S. dollar
terms. Benchmark indexes in the Philippines, Vietnam and Laos
climbed 18 percent, while Thailand’s  SET Index (SET)  advanced 16
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The top-ranked Southeast Asian firms in 2012, including
companies with market values of more than $10 billion, were
Malaysia’s  Public Bank Bhd. (PBK) , Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. and
 Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  in Singapore, as well as Thailand’s
 Advanced Info Service Pcl (ADVANC) , the ACGA report showed.  Backbone, Diversity  “We spend much time making sure controlling shareholders
will act in the interest of all shareholders, which includes how
they source, recruit and interact with independent directors,”
said Smith at Aberdeen Asset, which oversees $295 billion
worldwide. “It’s a case of whether these independent directors
have the backbone and diversity of experience to challenge the
board.”  Singapore, Thailand and Malaysia are the top three
Southeast Asian nations on the ACGA’s corporate governance watch
ranking, having improved their scores from 2010 to last year.
Indonesia is the only country from the region which worsened
over the two-year period.  PT Bumi Resources (BUMI) , Indonesia’s largest coal exporter, said
10 directors resigned this month, as its biggest shareholder
 Bumi Plc (BUMI)  works to dispose of its stake in the company and
separate from the nation’s Bakrie family after defeating an
attempt by  Nathaniel Rothschild  to take control of the board.
Rothschild, scion of a centuries-old banking dynasty, is a co-
founder of Bumi Plc.  Shares Slump  The dispute caused investors to avoid the companies,
sending Bumi Plc’s shares to plunge 56 percent in the past year,
and prompting Bumi Resources to fall 71 percent in the same
period.  Only a a few of the Southeast Asian markets studied by the
ACGA ranked above 60 percent in the quality of non-financial
reporting, such as the disclosure of related-party transactions
and definitions of independent directors, the ACGA report said.  “We expect good corporate governance from the companies we
invest in, especially in terms of disclosure, which still needs
improvement,” said Ezra Nazula, head of fixed income overseeing
25 trillion rupiah ($2.6 billion) at PT Manulife Asset
Management  Indonesia  in Jakarta. “It is certainly a plus point
if companies have independent directors as we would be able to
expect better transparency.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  