-- Accenture Forecasts Revenue That Falls Short of Estimates
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-03-28T20:22:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/accenture-reports-profit-that-tops-estimates-as-consulting-gains.html
Accenture Plc (ACN) , the world’s second-
largest technology-consulting company, forecast third-quarter
sales that fell short of analysts’ estimates as the company
takes on fewer short-term contracts.  Revenue will reach $7.25 billion to $7.5 billion in the
quarter that ends in May, the Dublin-based company said today in
a statement. That missed the $7.58 billion average estimate of
analysts, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  After reaching a record high earlier this month, Accenture
shares have dropped on speculation that businesses are holding
back on spending, said Arvind Ramnani, an analyst at BNP Paribas
SA in  New York .  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ’s quarterly results missed earnings
estimates last week, exacerbating investors’ concern, he said.  “Clients are reducing or deferring investments due to
ongoing economic challenges impacting their businesses,”
particularly in Europe and  Asia , Chief Financial Officer Pamela Craig said on a call with investors. The company also said full-
year revenue would be in the lower half of its previous forecast
for an increase of 5 percent to 8 percent.  Separately, Accenture said Craig, 56, plans to step down
from the CFO job on July 1 and leave the company on Aug. 31.
She’ll be replaced by  David Rowland , 52, Accenture’s senior vice
president of finance.  The shares rose 1.5 percent to $75.97 at the close in New
York. They have fallen 3 percent since hitting a record close of
$78.35 on March 8.  Quarterly Report  The sales projection marred an earnings report that
surpassed analysts’ expectations for profit and was in line with
revenue estimates for the most recent quarter, helped by a gain
in consulting spending by corporate customers.  Second-quarter net income rose to $1.1 billion, or $1.65 a
share, compared with $643.9 million, or 97 cents, a year
earlier. Excluding some items, earnings were $1 a share.
Analysts had predicted 97 cents, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Accenture’s sales growth has been outperforming
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , the largest provider of
technology consulting, which saw that unit shrink 2 percent in
2012. Clients are choosing contracts over longer periods, which
may lead to more stable earnings even if the deals don’t produce
revenue as quickly, Ramnani said.  More Stability?  “Eventually it increases the level of stability in the
business,” said the analyst, who has a hold rating on the
Accenture stock. “The chance of projects getting canceled or
delayed is probably being reduced.”  Accenture maintained its forecast for 2013 adjusted
earnings to a range of $4.24 to $4.32 a share, compared with the
$4.28 average estimate of analysts.  “This is a business that we don’t worry about very much,
about short-run things,” said Bill Smead, who runs a $340
million fund at Smead Capital Management in  Seattle , with about
$10 million of Accenture shares. “It’s been a terrific
investment.”  IBM, based in Armonk, New York, is scheduled to report
quarterly earnings next month for the period ending in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  