-- Taiwan Holds Key Rate a Seventh Time as Economy Seen Recovering
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-03-28T09:20:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/taiwan-holds-key-rate-a-seventh-time-as-economy-seen-recovering.html
Taiwan kept the benchmark  interest
rate  unchanged for a seventh straight meeting as economic growth
gathers pace on  China ’s recovery and inflation pressures recede.  The central bank held the  discount rate  on 10-day loans to
banks at 1.875 percent, it said in a statement in Taipei today.
The decision was predicted by all 20 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. The monetary authority has refrained from adjusting
borrowing costs since raising the benchmark in June 2011.  Taiwan follows Asian nations including South Korea and
 Thailand  in holding policy rates as data from China and the U.S.
show the global economy is recovering. The island last month
raised its estimates for exports and  gross domestic product  in
2013, and the central bank has said inflation will be more
stable this year than in 2012.  “The economy is on track to a modest recovery and
inflation pressures will remain tame,” Ma Tieying, a Singapore-
based economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd., said before the
decision. “The central bank will probably keep the benchmark
rate unchanged until the last quarter this year.”  The  Taiwan dollar  has lost almost 3 percent this year
against the U.S. currency as the yen’s decline fanned concern
the island’s central bank will influence the  exchange rate  to
protect exporters. The monetary authority will maintain order in
the foreign-exchange market if needed, Governor Perng Fai-Nan
said earlier this year.  The island’s biggest companies, including Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. and HTC Corp., compete with
Japan’s Sony Corp. and South Korea’s Samsung Electronics Co. for
global market share.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net ;
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  