-- Amazon, Overstock Lose Challenge to N.Y. Web Sales Tax
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-03-28T21:33:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/amazon-overstock-lose-challenge-to-n-y-web-sales-tax.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the world’s
biggest online retailer, and discount Internet seller
 Overstock.com Inc. (OSTK)  lost a challenge to New York’s Internet sales
tax law as the state’s highest court rejected their arguments
that it was unconstitutional.  Amazon, based in  Seattle , and Overstock, based in Salt Lake
City, sued the state’s Department of Taxation and Finance
separately in 2008, seeking to overturn a law requiring
retailers to pay taxes if they solicit business in New York
through a link to a website.  The companies argued that the law violated the Commerce
Clause of the U.S. Constitution by subjecting online retailers
without a physical presence in the state to sales and
compensating use taxes. It violated the Due Process Clause by
“creating an irrational, irrebuttable presumption of
solicitation of business within the state,” they said.  Justice Eileen Bransten dismissed the suits in January
2009. An appeals court in Manhattan affirmed her rulings in
2010, and the state  Court of Appeals  agreed today, saying the
companies “established an in-state sales force” through
agreements with affiliates who received commissions for posting
links on their websites directing users to Amazon.com or
Overstock.com.  ‘Appropriate’ Burden  “If a vendor is paying New York residents to actively
solicit business in this state, there is no reason why that
vendor should not shoulder the appropriate tax burden,” Chief
Judge Jonathan Lippman wrote in a majority decision.  The decision affirms New York’s approach to “ensure fair
tax administration for both brick-and-mortar and Internet-based
businesses,” the state’s commissioner of taxation and finance,
Thomas H. Mattox, said in a statement.  “We commend the court for recognizing the logical
application of existing precedent to the 21st Century economy,”
Mattox said. “Since being implemented, this law has resulted in
the collection of roughly $500 million in state and local sales
tax. This is equivalent to approximately $6 billion of taxable
retail sales into New York that were previously made without the
sales tax being collected.”  The ruling conflicts with U.S. Supreme Court precedents and
with decisions by other state courts, Amazon spokesman Ty Rogers
said in an e-mail.  Reflects ‘Confusion’  “Given the confusion reflected by this decision, we
believe the best way to effectively fix this problem is through
passage of the Marketplace Fairness Act by Congress, which
Amazon strongly supports,” Rogers said.  Overstock will probably appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court as
Colorado and Illinois state courts have found similar laws
violated the Constitution, said Jonathan Johnson, the company’s
acting chief executive officer. Eight states other than New York
have passed similar laws, “the chief effect of which has been
to put many Internet advertisers out of business,” Johnson said
in a statement.  “We’re disappointed in the ruling but are confident that
the New York law is unconstitutional,” Johnson said in a
telephone interview. “We will very likely file to have it heard
by the U.S. Supreme Court since there are other states that on
almost the same law have ruled the opposite way.”  The New York ruling won’t have any impact on Overstock’s
operations because the company terminated the services of its
New York-based advertisers after the law was passed, the company
said. Johnson said he has been working with congressional
representatives to craft a national plan allowing states to use
remote retailers for tax collection.  Patchwork Quilt  “We have opposed at each opportunity the patchwork quilt
of state laws, but we do not oppose the right federal solution
to this national question,” Johnson said. “This is a fairness
question which the Congress alone must resolve.  ‘‘There are more than 9,600 taxing districts in the
country, and if Congress moves that enormous tax collection
burden to remote retailers, then in fairness, Congress should
require states to pay reasonable compensation to those retailers
for the associated costs, especially when those retailers have
no real connection to the state, have no political influence
there and derive no benefit from the states in which they have
no physical presence,’’ he said.  Judge’s Dissent  Judge Robert Smith of the Court of Appeals disagreed with
the majority. The tax law should be overturned because it
violates the Commerce Clause, he wrote in a dissent. Links to
Overstock.com and Amazon.com that appear on websites owned by
proprietors in New York serve the same purpose as advertising by
out-of-state retailers in local newspapers, he said.  ‘‘The websites are not soliciting customers for Overstock
and Amazon in the fashion of a local sales agent,’’ Smith wrote.
‘‘Of course the website owners solicit business for themselves;
they encourage people to visit their websites, just as a
newspaper owner would seek to boost circulation. But there is no
basis for inferring that they are actively soliciting for the
out-of-state retailers.’’  The cases are Amazon.com LLC v. Department of Taxation,
601247/2008, and Overstock.com v. New York State, 107581/2008,
New York State Supreme Court, New York County ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 