-- America Losing Technology Workers Denied in Visa Lottery
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-03-28T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/america-losing-technology-workers-denied-in-visa-lottery.html
Cristina Martinez Mortola has a lot
riding on her application for a temporary skilled-worker visa.
So does her boss, SendHub co-founder Garrett Johnson.  Martinez Mortola is competing for one of 85,000  H-1B  visas
that make up the U.S. government limit for this year, and demand
is so high that 65,000 of those may be awarded through a
lottery. Random selection means more risk for the technology
companies that dominate these visas, and also may leave them
waiting for months to find out if their employees are chosen.  “Every company lives and dies by the talent it has access
to,” Johnson said. And Martinez Mortola, who manages customer
support for his web-and-mobile-communication startup’s 100,000
clients, is ”invaluable,” he said.  Martinez Mortola, 28, a Panamanian with a master’s degree
in engineering management from the University of Southern
California in Los Angeles, has worked at the Menlo Park,
California-based company since August. Her current visa expires
in June.  While she can apply for an extension of her visa if
SendHub’s petition for an H-1B is denied, she says if both fail
she’ll have to leave her husband and job in the U.S.  Government and company officials say the cap on the H-1B
visas could be reached within five days after the application
period opens April 1.  If applications exceed the limit in that time period, which
the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services has  said  could
happen, the slots will be awarded by lottery rather than by
order of filing.  Reaching Quota  The employer-sponsored visa allows 65,000 professionals
with a college degree or equivalent experience to work in the
U.S. for three years with extensions to six years and beyond. It
took 10 weeks to reach the quota last year and until Nov. 22 in
2011. An additional 20,000 slots are available for the first
petitions for employees with a master’s degree or higher from a
U.S. university. That allows for 85,000 H-1B workers plus those
granted under other exemptions.  “It really is a race,” said Neil Ruiz, a senior policy
analyst at Washington-based Brookings Institution who studies
issues involving the visas. Immigration is already a hot topic
in Washington, and he said demand for H-1Bs could focus the
issue more intensely. “If the cap is reached fast, that will
spark controversy,” he said.  This year’s competition for visas takes place against the
backdrop of a national immigration debate. Two bills -- one to
make the H-1B system more restrictive and another to raise the
cap -- have been introduced in Congress this year. The
proposals, or parts of them, could be included in a broader
package on immigration being drafted by a bipartisan group of
eight senators, which the White House anticipates could be filed
in April.  ‘Real Constraint’  Technology companies including  Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s
largest chipmaker, say more H-1B visas would keep jobs in the
U.S. and prevent the uncertainty caused by a lottery.  “That puts a real constraint on our ability to hire the
skilled workers we need to allow us to innovate, create new
products and create new jobs,” said Peter Muller, director of
government relations for Intel.  Workers’ groups including the AFL-CIO and some academics
say raising the cap would cost Americans jobs. Companies don’t
have to try to hire U.S. workers before seeking H-1B workers,
and critics say a rule requiring that visa holders earn a
standard industry wage is tough to enforce.  Companies in computer, math and science fields dominate H-
1B visa applications and have spent years pushing for a higher
quota. For the fiscal year ended Sept. 30, 2011, 48.9 percent of
 approved petitions  for initial employment were in computer-
related occupations, and 11.3 percent went to architecture,
engineering and surveying professionals.  Demand Growing  Demand has grown as employers have drained the U.S. talent
pool, said Emily Lam, senior director of health care and federal
issues at  Silicon Valley Leadership Group . The San Jose,
California-based policy group, whose members include  AT&T (T)  Inc.
and  Yahoo! (YHOO)  Inc., is pushing for immigration changes.  “The economy is picking up,” Lam said. ”Many of our
employers are saying that hiring is robust.”  The unemployment rate for information workers in February
was the lowest for that month since 2007, according to non-
seasonally adjusted data from the U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics. Computer, engineering and science occupations will
grow by 17 percent between 2010 and 2020, compared with 14.3
percent for all U.S. occupations, based on  BLS projections .  The 65,000 cap for H-1B workers has been in place since
2003 with the masters exemption added in 2005. There are
exceptions for not-for-profit groups that conduct research,
universities and governmental research organizations. The
program went to a lottery for fiscal years starting October 1,
2007 and 2008.  Letter to Obama  More than 100 technology company leaders including Facebook
Inc.’s chief executive officer  Mark Zuckerberg  sent President
 Barack Obama  and lawmakers a  letter  this month urging market-
based limits for high-skilled visas.  Silicon Valley leaders from Lam’s group are prioritizing
 green card  expansion, she said. Green cards allow workers to
stay in the U.S. permanently. Employers must try to fill a
position with an American first, there are limits on the number
allowed from each country and the approval process is lengthy.  Because H-1B visas are faster to obtain, Lam said industry
leaders want a higher or demand-tied cap as a complement to
green card reform. That way, workers can use the visas as they
await green cards. “We’d definitely like to see an increase in
both,” she said.  Academics who have said the H-1B program encourages
employers to hire foreign instead of U.S. workers say raising
the cap could cost Americans jobs.  ‘Prevailing Wage’  Employers misuse the program by hiring from abroad at
entry-level wages while bypassing more expensive domestic
workers, said Norman Matloff, a University of California Davis
computer science professor.  Despite a requirement that companies pay a “prevailing
wage” for the industry, Matloff said H-1B workers often prove
cheaper because it’s hard for the government to gauge proper
salaries. “You are not asked, for example, whether the foreign
national that you’d like to hire has special technical skills,”
he said. “The employer can hire the same quality person for a
lower wage.”  A January 2011 Government Accountability Office  report  said
54 percent of H-1B labor applications were for workers earning
entry level wages.  Lower Wage  Outsourcing companies are among the largest users of H-1B,
said Ron Hira, an associate public policy professor at Rochester
Institute of Technology in New York and co-author of
“Outsourcing America.” The businesses bring workers to the
U.S., hire them out into temporary, basic jobs and earn money
from the wage paid by the outside companies, Hira said. That
wage is still lower than what Americans would make, he said.  “They’re using this for labor arbitrage, wage arbitrage,”
Hira said. “The program as it stands is obviously
disadvantaging American workers, American engineers, but it’s
also disadvantaging firms that want to hire American workers.”  Senator Chuck Grassley, an Iowa Republican, has proposed
that companies be required to try to hire American workers
first, among other restrictions.  A separate bill, introduced in January, would raise the H-
1B cap to 115,000 and allow it to climb to 300,000 based on
demand, and expand green card access. The measure is sponsored
by Republican Senators Orrin Hatch of Utah and Marco Rubio of
Florida and Democrats Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota and Chris Coons
of Delaware.  For Martinez Mortola, the wait to learn her petition’s fate
will be long. A yes would be “the best news of my entire
life,” she said.  “The lawyer tells me, ‘You are going to get it because of
your master’s degree,’” she said. “But I always tell her, you
never know.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  