-- Mandela Admitted to Hospital Again for Lung Condition
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2013-03-28T20:51:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/mandela-admitted-to-hospital-again-for-lung-condition.html
Nelson Mandela  is responding to
treatment for a recurring lung illness, his second hospital
visit this year after a check-up less than three weeks ago.  The nation’s first black leader, 94, was admitted before
midnight local time, President  Jacob Zuma  said today in a
 statement . Mandela’s health took a “downturn” yesterday and he
was transported to the hospital to prevent the infection from
spreading, Zuma’s spokesman,  Mac Maharaj , said in an interview
on Johannesburg-based broadcaster eNCA. Mandela remains under
treatment and observation, Maharaj said in a separate statement.  “We appeal to the people of  South Africa  and the world to
pray for our beloved Madiba and his family,” Zuma said,
referring to Mandela by his clan name. “We have full confidence
in the medical team.”  The Nobel Peace Prize-winner was hospitalized from Dec. 8
to Dec. 26 to treat a lung infection and to have gallstones
removed. He contracted tuberculosis while imprisoned on Robben
Island during his 27-year incarceration for fighting all-white
minority rule. Mandela led South Africa for five years after the
 African National Congress , or ANC, won the first all-race
elections in 1994, ending apartheid rule.  He spent a night in a Pretoria hospital on March 9 for
scheduled medical tests.  The ANC called on “all South Africans and the world to
keep Nelson Mandela in their prayers,” in a statement. “We are
confident that the treatment will be successful.”  In Washington, President  Barack Obama  said he hoped Mandela
will pull through, as he has from previous health threats. “We
will be keeping him in our thoughts and prayers,” Obama said at
the White House during a meeting with leaders of four sub-
Saharan nations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  