-- Anhui Construction, Congo Plan to Take Diamond Company Public
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2013-03-28T08:41:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/anhui-construction-congo-plan-to-take-diamond-company-public.html
Anhui Foreign Economic Construction
Group of  China  and the  Democratic Republic  of Congo created a
joint venture to mine diamonds in Eastern Kasai province and
plan to take the company public.  The 50-50 venture between Anhui and the central African
country may produce 6 million carats a year by 2016, according
to documents published on the Mines Ministry’s website
yesterday. Anhui, based in Hefei, will pay $4.2 million for its
half, plus a signing bonus of as much as $61 million, and invest
an estimated $100 million in infrastructure, the documents show.  Congolese Mines Minister  Martin Kabwelulu  didn’t respond to
a mobile-phone message requesting comment. A phone call to Anhui
Foreign Economic Construction Group’s sales office went
unanswered today, while a receptionist at the company’s
headquarters said no one was immediately available to comment.  Congo was the world’s second-largest producer of natural
industrial diamonds and accounted for about 5.5 percent of
gemstone production in 2012, according to the  U.S. Geological
Survey . Last year, the country produced about 20 million carats,
down from 29 million carats in 2006, according to central bank
figures. A carat is a fifth of a gram.  De Beers , the world’s largest diamond miner, produced 27.9
million carats last year  Anhui is also partner with the Zimbabwean government in
Anjin Investments Ltd., the biggest company operating in
 Zimbabwe ’s Marange diamond fields. New York-based  Human Rights
Watch  and Africa Partnership Canada have said informal diggers
have been killed, and diamond money from the venture has gone to
a military loyal to President  Robert Mugabe ’s ruling Zimbabwe
African National Union-Patriotic Front.  Diamond Permits  The new Congolese joint venture, known as Societe Anhui-
Congo d’Investissement Minier Sprl, or SACIM, has two diamond-
exploration permits in Tshibwe, about 50 kilometers (31 miles)
from Mbuji-Mayi, the country’s main diamond trading center. The
company estimates total reserves of 158 million carats.  Congo will receive $9.15 million of the signing bonus up
front, and another $10.1 million at production. Anhui will
progressively pay the rest after the company is listed on an
unspecified stock exchange “and diamonds are sold,” the
contract says, without providing more details.  As part of its investment, Anhui will construct a 4.6-
megawatt hydropower plant near Tshibwe and a new building for
Congo’s diamond regulator at the N’Djili airport in Kinshasa,
the national capital.  Anhui also agreed to help Congo secure a preferential loan
from the Chinese government to build a 15-megawatt hydroelectric
plant at Tubi Tubidi and a road from the plant to Mbuji-Mayi.  The venture replaces state-controlled Societe Congolaise
d’Investissement Minier Sprl and will take on SCIM’s $7.7
million debts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  