-- April Best for Borrowing Shows T.S. Eliot Was Wrong: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-03-28T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/april-best-for-borrowing-shows-t-s-eliot-was-wrong-muni-credit.html
T.S. Eliot, the Nobel Prize-winning
poet, St. Louis native and former Lloyds Bank clerk, didn’t
know much about American cities because April isn’t the cruelest
month.  Eliot described the fourth month of the year as the most
cruel in his 1922 narrative poem “The Waste Land.” Yet it’s
the most rewarding for investors in the $3.7 trillion municipal
market. Since 2009, yields on benchmark 10-year debt have  fallen
more  in April than any other month, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Bondholders tend to receive the most cash from maturing
debt and coupon payments in June, July and August, and they
start planning how to invest that money in April, said John Hallacy, head of muni research in  New York  at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch. Once investors know their April 15 tax bill, they
are able to put money to work, he said.  “It’s just a seasonally strong month for a lot of
technical reasons,” Hallacy said. “You start to get into
heavier roll-over months, so there’s the notion that if you have
something coming due, it’s time to take a look and consider what
else to go into.”  Issuance Fuel  Adding fuel to a potential April rally, buyers may have
less muni debt to choose from. Issuers from  Oregon  to
Pennsylvania have scheduled  $6.7 billion  of long-term borrowing
in the next 30 days, down from a three-month high of $13.3
billion on Feb. 27, according to Bloomberg data. The five-year
average is $10.3 billion.  The muni market has lost 0.7 percent this month as of March
26, while Treasuries are down less than 0.1 percent, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data. This would be the fifth
straight March in which munis have lost value as investors sell
tax-exempt debt or avoid buying the securities to make tax
payments. In contrast, April has shown gains in each of the past
six years.  Yields on 10-year benchmark munis have fallen in April by 9
percent on average in the past five years, the biggest monthly
drop in yields. Prices move in the opposite direction of
 interest rates .  Cash Ahead  Investors will receive about $91 billion combined in June
and July from maturing bonds and coupon payments, the highest
monthly amounts in 2013, according to Bank of America. That’s up
from about $37 billion combined in March and April.  Investors also have bonuses or other first-quarter payments
they need to deploy, Hallacy said.  “The tone gets better” in April, Hallacy said. “People
get quarterly cash and think about where else they’re going to
find a home for it.”  Eliot, born in 1888, wrote “The Waste Land” while working
at Lloyds Bank, now Lloyds Banking Group Plc, according to 
Ed Petter, a spokesman for the London-based company. He joined 
the bank in 1917 and left in 1925, according to Petter. Eliot 
received the  Nobel Prize  in Literature in 1948 and died in 1965.  “April is the cruellest month, breeding/Lilacs out of the
dead land, mixing/Memory and desire, stirring/Dull roots with
spring rain,” he wrote in the poem’s opening stanza.  Outflow Flag  Eliot’s view of April may yet resonate with investors this
year. U.S. muni mutual funds have lost assets for three straight
weeks, the longest stretch since December, Lipper US Fund Flows
data show. Chris Mauro, head muni strategist at RBC Capital
Markets LLC in New York, said the timing suggests the
withdrawals may persist.  During the past 10 years, investors on average have pulled
cash from the funds in the second week of April, after adding
money each week in March, Mauro wrote in a March 25 report.  “Muni fund flows generally have returned to positive
territory” after April 15, he wrote. “Given the early March
outflows this year, we question whether we will see this
snapback pattern in 2013.”  While seasonal patterns in Treasuries may also bolster
munis in the next month, that support may be weaker than in
previous years, said Craig Brothers, managing director of Bel
Air Investment Advisors LLC in  Los Angeles .  Yields on Treasuries tend to drop at this time of year as
investors switch from equities, said Brothers, who helps manage
$3 billion of munis.  On average in the past five years , interest
rates on 10-year Treasuries are typically little changed in
April and decline starting in May, according to Bloomberg data.  Munis aren’t as cheap relative to Treasuries coming out of
March as they were in previous years, according to Brothers.  At  3.22 percent , yields on benchmark 30-year munis are
close to the highest since May, Bloomberg Valuation data show.
That compares with about 3.09 percent on federal debt. The ratio
of the two, at about 104 percent, is the highest since
September. Yet it’s still below the five-year average of about
 112 percent .  Following is a pending sale:  PENNSYLVANIA  plans to sell $950 million of tax-exempt
general obligations as soon as April 2, according to Bloomberg
data. Proceeds will help finance redevelopment, road and bridge
repair, and water and sewer upgrades, according to bond
documents. (Added March 28)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  