-- Arsenal, Liverpool Eye Swansea’s Williams, Mail Says: Roundup
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-03-28T11:29:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/arsenal-liverpool-eye-swansea-s-williams-mail-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet
links.  Williams Fight  Arsenal may face competition from Liverpool in trying to
sign Swansea defender Ashley Williams, the  Daily Mail  said.  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  will bid for Williams after
the season, the Mail said. However, Liverpool manager  Brendan Rodgers , Swansea’s former boss, is also keen to reunite with the
Welsh international, the newspaper said.  The Mail also said Arsenal plans to sell striker Gervinho
to Galatasaray for 12 million pounds ($18 million) and has shown
interest in the Turkish club’s goalkeeper Fernando Muslera,
though Liverpool’s Pepe Reina remains the first choice for
signing, the Mail said.  Mancini for Monaco?  Manchester City manager  Roberto Mancini  has been offered a
170 million-pound transfer kitty to move to Monaco next season,
the  Mirror said .  Dmitry Rybolovlev, Monaco’s Russian billionaire owner,
tried to lure Mancini last year and has returned with the
transfer fund and a three-year contract worth 22 million pounds,
the Mirror said.  Mancini agreed to a new contract until 2017 after leading
City to the Premier League title last season.  Monaco  currently
tops France’s Ligue 2 and is on course for a return to the top
flight next season.  Decision Delay  Manchester City midfielder Yaya Toure will delay any
decision on his future until after the season, the  Mirror said .  Toure has two years remaining on his contract at Eastlands
and the club’s policy is not to renegotiate contracts during the
season, the Mirror said. The 29-year-old has attracted interest
from Real Madrid and Paris Saint-Germain, the newspaper said.  Bony Bid  Chelsea may derail West Ham’s plan to sign striker Wilfried
Bony from Dutch club Vitesse Arnhem,  the Sun  said.  West Ham is closing in on a 12 million-pound move for the
Ivory Coast international, who leads the Eredivisie with 26
goals, and co-chairman  David Sullivan  met with one of the
player’s agents this week, the Sun said.  However, Chelsea sees Bony as a potential replacement for
 Fernando Torres  and could make a move if  Jose Mourinho  returns
to the club as coach, the newspaper said.  Coleman’s Future  Wales national team manager Chris Coleman will assess his
future after World Cup qualifying ends, the  Telegraph said .  Coleman, who took over Wales in January 2012 following the
death of  Gary Speed , may consider a return to club management,
the Telegraph said. The former Fulham boss misses the day-to-day
involvement of club soccer and has already turned down
opportunities to manage abroad, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 