-- Asian Stocks Decline as Euro Area Woes Deepen
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2013-03-28T10:09:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/asian-stocks-fall-as-europe-woes-deepen-u-s-home-sales-drop.html
Asian  stocks  fell, with the
regional benchmark index nearly erasing this month’s advance, on
concern  Europe ’s debt crisis is deepening and after pending U.S.
home sales fell.  Chinese banks slid after financial regulators tightened
rules on wealth-management products and the cabinet called for
new measures to deregulate interest rates.  China  Minsheng
Banking Corp., the nation’s first non-state lender, slid 7.9
percent in Hong Kong.  Sony Corp. (6758) , an electronics maker that gets
38 percent of its revenue in Europe and the U.S., fell 3 percent
in  Tokyo . GS Yuasa Corp. plunged 11 percent in Tokyo after
Mitsubishi Motors Corp. said a Yuasa lithium-ion car battery
caught fire and another melted.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 0.5 percent to 135.45
as of 7:07 p.m. in Tokyo, heading for a 0.3 percent gain this
month. Almost two stocks fell for each that gained on the
measure, which has risen 0.9 percent this week and 4.7 percent
this quarter.  “The sentiment about Europe is bad,” said  Stephen Halmarick , Sydney-based head of investment markets research at
Colonial First State Global Asset Management, which oversees
about $150 billion. “The uncertainty created by a bank bailout
in Cyprus and the inability in  Italy  to form a government is
weighing on the markets, reminding us that Europe is going to be
a negative influence for years to come.”  Relative Value  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 5.2 percent this year
through yesterday on improving U.S. economic data and
speculation that  Japan  will deploy more stimulus. The Asia
benchmark traded at 15.1 times estimated earnings on average,
compared with 14.1 times for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and
12.6 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Japan’s  Topix Index (TPX)  fell 0.9 percent as the Finance
Ministry reported foreign investors sold a net 267.6 billion yen
($2.8 billion) of Japanese shares last week.  South Korea’s Kospi Index was little changed, while data
showed the nation’s current account surplus widened in February.
 Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 dropped 0.6 percent and New Zealand’s
NZX 50 Index added 0.2 percent.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index fell 0.7 percent, and China’s
Shanghai Composite Index slumped 2.8 percent.  Taiwan’s Taiex
Index (TWSE)  slid 0.4 percent.  Singapore ’s Straits Times Index lost 0.2
percent.  The S&P BSE Sensex index advanced, reversing a decline of
as much as 0.7 percent in the final hour of trade.  Markets in Hong Kong, Australia, New Zealand, Singapore and
 India  will be closed tomorrow for the Good Friday holiday.  Futures on the  S&P 500 (SPXL1)  declined 0.2 percent today. The
index slid 0.1 percent in New York yesterday as fewer Americans
signed contracts to purchase previously owned homes in February.  Europe Woes  European governments and the International Monetary Fund
agreed Monday to lend Cyprus 10 billion euros ($13 billion) as
long as the country liquidated its second-largest bank and
forced losses on bank bondholders and deposits of more than
100,000 euros.  Italian 10-year government bond  yields  jumped 21 basis
points yesterday, the most in a month, as Democratic Party
leader Pier Luigi Bersani said there was no chance of a broad
coalition to end a political deadlock following February’s
elections.  Companies that do business in Europe and the U.S. dropped,
with Sony sliding 3 percent to 1,625 yen.  HSBC Holdings Plc (5) ,
Europe’s biggest lender, lost 1 percent to HK$82.  Hutchison
Whampoa Ltd. (13) , an operator retail chains that gets 53 percent of
its  revenue  in Europe, fell 1.3 percent to HK$80.90.  Isolate Risks  China’s regulator told banks to limit investments of client
funds in credit assets that aren’t publicly traded, and to
isolate the risks from their operations. Separately, the State
Council said yesterday it will take steps this year to loosen
state control over interest rates and the  yuan .  China Minsheng Banking slumped 7.9 percent to HK$9.89.
 Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. , the nation’s third-biggest
lender, dropped 2.1 percent to HK$3.72. Bank of Communications
Co. sank 4 percent to HK$5.81.  “They are trying to monitor Chinese banks more closely,
but you can’t just stop them because the real economy needs
their money,” said Benjamin Tam, a portfolio manager who helps
manage about $1.5 billion at IG Investment in Hong Kong. “Their
assets will come under pressure.”  GS Yuasa, the Japanese maker of the batteries that
overheated and grounded all Boeing Co. Dreamliner flights,
slumped 11 percent to 392 yen after a battery pack caught fire
while being tested at a Mitsubishi Motors factory in Japan on
March 18. Another pack melted in a separate incident last week,
Mitsubishi said yesterday.  Sharp Funding  Sharp Corp., the Japanese television maker, dropped 3.6
percent to 268 yen. The company may seek private-equity funding
and sell shares, according to two people familiar with the
situation. A deadline passed yesterday for Foxconn Technology
Group to invest in the electronics maker, which is forecasting a
record loss.  Newcrest Mining Ltd. (NCM) , Australia’s biggest gold producer,
sank 8.3 percent to A$20.05 after cutting an output forecast.  Nufarm Ltd., Australia’s largest supplier of farm
chemicals, slumped 17 percent to A$3.95 in Sydney after saying
full-year profit will fall on lower income from its Australian
operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  