-- Latecoere Plans Dual Supply Sites on Tunisian Disruption
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2013-03-28T13:28:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/latecoere-plans-dual-supply-sites-on-tunisian-disruption.html
Latecoere SA (LAT) , a French supplier to
the world’s major aircraft makers, said it will develop dual
sources for many of its components after disruptions to
production last year because of political unrest in Tunisia.  Lessons learned from stoppages in the North African country
in October will encourage the Toulouse-based manufacturer of
aircraft doors and electrical wiring to set up additional
capacity in low-cost production centers that it’s trying to
develop, Chief Executive Officer Francois Bertrand told
journalists today in a briefing in Paris.  “After the experience in Tunisia we decided to change our
industrial strategy and secure all production with double-
sourcing,” he said.  Latecoere is working in an “extremely promising
environment” as order backlogs build at  Boeing Co. (BA)  and  Airbus
SAS (EAD) , the world’s largest planemakers, Bertrand said. After one
of Latecoere’s two factories in Tunisia was crippled for weeks
last year by the turmoil, the company recovered by rapidly
assembling back-up facilities in  France  and expanding a new site
in Mexico, he said.  Net income plunged 53 percent last year to 3.1 million
euros ($4 million) following an 18 million-euro charge to cover
the costs of coping with the crisis in Tunisia, Latecoere said
yesterday in a statement. Earnings before interest and tax fell
40 percent to 26.8 million euros, with the operating margin
narrowing to 4.2 percent of revenue from 7.8 percent in 2011.  Mexican Expansion  The French company expects no further charges this year
related to Tunisia, though it will have development costs for
building up operations in  Mexico  to match capacity in Tunisia,
Bertrand said. As a result, 2013 will be a transitional year as
the manufacturer works to bring margins in 2014 back to 2011’s
level, he said.  Latecoere  jumped  as much as 3.7 percent to 8.97 euros and
was trading up 1.2 percent at 1:14 p.m. in Paris. The stock has
gained 12 percent this year.  The workforce in Tunisia, which had been as large as 900
employees, will drop to 700 people this year and eventually be
scaled back to 500, Bertrand said. Staffing will rise to 500
workers in Mexico, where Latecoere will produce both doors and
wiring by 2015.  Revenue in 2013 will probably rise 5 percent, following a
12 percent jump last year to 643.6 million euros, Latecoere
said. The operating margin should rise to about 6 percent of
sales, and financial debt will increase by about 20 million
euros as Latecoere spends money to develop the Mexican site, it
said. Net debt was 322.6 million euros at the end of 2012.  ‘Dollar Zone’  Latecoere is generally seeking to spread its geographic
presence worldwide to be closer to customers. It chose Mexico to
serve North American planemakers Boeing and  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) ,
Bertrand said. The country’s presence in the “dollar zone” is
an advantage in an industry that uses the U.S. currency for all
transactions, he said.  Airbus, which is also based in Toulouse, was Latecoere’s
biggest customer, contributing 48.4 percent of sales in 2012.
Brazilian planemaker  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  generated 15.5 percent and
Chicago-based Boeing accounted for 15.4 percent.  Latecoere said in 2011 that it would seek to merge with
another aerospace company to gain critical mass.  Since then, the manufacturer has backed off that ambition.
The chief challenge now involves coping with growth as the large
airframe makers raise production rates, so consolidation “isn’t
the focus today,” though the strategy remained a possibility
for the long term, Bertrand said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris via 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  