-- Maurel CEO Says Company Had ‘Contacts’ for Possible Sale, Merger
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-03-28T16:51:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/maurel-ceo-says-company-had-contacts-for-possible-sale-merger.html
Etablissements Maurel & Prom (MAU)  Chief
Executive Officer Jean-Francois Henin said that while he has had
contacts about a possible takeover or merger of the French oil
and gas explorer, getting a deal has proved elusive.  “We are handicapped by our listing in  France ,” he said
today at a press conference in Paris. “We would have already
merged with someone if we were in  London . We have contacts
regularly. I don’t know where anything will lead.”  The Paris stock market, where France’s biggest explorer,
Total SA, trades, lacks depth of listings in the oil business,
Henin said. The CEO, who owns 24 percent of Maurel, has long
said he’s searching for a buyer or partner to help the company
reach a “critical size.”  He declined to comment on “crazy rumors” about  oil
companies  ready to buy Maurel, whose  shares  have advanced 19
percent in three months.  “We don’t have a vital need for a merger” or acquirer,
Henin said. An offer to take the company private fell through as
no agreement could be reached on valuation, while a merger with
a company listed elsewhere would make sense, he said.  The explorer today posted net income of 58 million euros
($74 million) in 2012 from 165 million euros a year earlier.
Sales rose 26 percent to 472 million euros. Asset sales totaled
135 million euros in 2011.  Gabon Production  Maurel had average production of 15,688 barrels of oil
equivalent a day in 2012, with output in Gabon surpassing
22,000. The connection of new wells may push production from
Gabon above 27,500 barrels a day by the end of the year after
last year’s results were affected by the collapse of a platform.  Maurel spun off its Nigerian operations in 2011 to
concentrate on projects in Gabon, Tanzania and  Colombia . Plans
for this year also include Peru, Mozambique and  Namibia ,
according to today’s statement.  Maurel, which first struck oil in the Republic of Congo in
2001, has divested businesses ranging from fish farming to
shipping to focus on energy. It drilled more than 100
exploration wells in the past decade, with a success rate of 46
percent, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  