-- Australian Banks State Bond Holdings at Record as Foreigners Cut
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-03-28T01:53:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/australian-banks-state-bond-holdings-at-record-as-foreigners-cut.html
Australia ’s banks boosted holdings
of the nation’s state government bonds to a record in the fourth
quarter as lenders prepare to meet new regulations aimed at
making them more resilient.  Banks held A$76.2 billion ($79.5 billion) of securities
issued by regional borrowing authorities, or 37 percent of the
outstanding debt, at the end of 2012, according to  data  from the
statistics bureau. That’s up from A$71 billion, or 35 percent,
at the end of the third quarter. The share of foreigners’
holdings fell to 32 percent, the lowest level since June 30,
2009.  Securities sold by the federal and state governments are
the only assets in Australia that count as liquid assets under
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision rules, the Australian
Prudential Regulation Authority has said. The regulations,
slated to come in force from 2015, would force banks to hold
enough easy-to-sell assets to survive a 30-day squeeze.  “The story for states is all about the bank liquidity book
demand for semi-government paper which we know is very strong,”
said  Sally Auld , a Sydney-based interest-rate strategist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. “It’s going to be ongoing for the next
couple of years as the banks get ready to fall into line with
the Basel III regulations as they’ve been interpreted by APRA.”  States increased their outstanding debt to an all-time high
of A$207.5 billion in the final quarter of last year from
A$203.8 billion in the previous three months, according to the
bureau of statistics.  Semi-government debt returned a 0.4 percent loss this year
after rising 8.5 percent through 2012, according to Merrill
Lynch data. The securities offer 66 basis points of extra yield
compared with Australian government bonds, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  