-- Austria Posts Smaller Than Estimated Budget Deficit on Provinces
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-03-28T12:16:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/austria-posts-smaller-than-estimated-budget-deficit-on-provinces.html
Austria’s budget deficit held at
2.5 percent of gross domestic product last year, beating the
government’s forecast and keeping it below the European Union’s
ceiling.  Austrian provinces narrowed their deficit to 0.1 percent of
GDP and municipalities swung to a 0.1 percent surplus last year,
partly offsetting costs of bank bailout measures, the statistics
office in Vienna said in a statement today. The  finance ministry 
had increased its deficit forecast to 3.1 percent in October,
above the EU’s ceiling of 3 percent of GDP, following bank aid.  “I thank the provinces and municipalities for their
impressive budgetary discipline that is making a significant
contribution to the credibility of the Austrian budget policy,”
Finance Minister Maria Fekter said in a statement. “We’re well
on our way towards a balanced budget.”  The shrinking deficit of provinces as well as higher tax
revenues spare Fekter from presiding over a widening budget gap
in a year when Greece, Italy and  Spain  trim their shortfalls. It
also cements the Alpine nation’s space among euro-area countries
with the soundest public finances and the lowest refinancing
costs, such as  Germany ,  Finland  and the Netherlands.  Austria’s  10-year yield , which fell to a record low of
1.634 percent last week, was little changed at 1.68 percent at
11:27 a.m. in  London . That’s about 41 basis points more than
what Germany has to pay creditors for debt with the same
maturity.  Nationalized banks KA Finanz AG, Hypo-Alpe-Adria
International AG and  Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG (VBPS)  each needed
more than 1 billion euros of additional aid last year. Including
dividends and fees the banks are paying, the aid sparked a hole
in public finances equivalent to 0.9 percent of GDP. More funds
for KA Finanz and Hypo Alpe are earmarked in the 2013 budget.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  