-- Emerging-Market Debt Posting Worst Start Since 1995
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2013-03-28T19:20:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/aviva-shuns-emerging-debt-off-to-worst-start-since-1995.html
Emerging-market government debt is
off to its worst start since 1995 as rising U.S. Treasury yields
dim the allure of the securities and investors shift to
corporate bonds in developing countries.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index has lost 2.3
percent this quarter as average emerging-market bond  yields  rose
to 4.96 percent on March 27, the highest level since August,
from 4.50 percent on Dec. 31.  “The 5 percent yield is not attractive if you are fearful
that one of the biggest negatives going forward is the rising of
Treasury yields,” Jeremy Brewin, who oversees more than
$5 billion of fixed-income assets as the head of emerging-market
debt at Aviva Investors, said in a March 21 telephone interview
from  London . “There’s no compelling reason to dash in.”  Aviva Investors, which has beaten 81 percent of peers over
the past three years, is reducing holdings of long-term
emerging-market bonds, which are the most sensitive to U.S.
Treasury moves. Paul Denoon, who oversees $27 billion as head of
emerging-market debt at  AllianceBernstein Holding LP (AB) , said he is
allocating 15 percent of assets to emerging-market corporate
bonds, approaching the upper limit of his mandate.  Brewin said he isn’t “really keen to pile on” long-term
bonds until yields on the benchmark JPMorgan index move to 6
percent. Aviva’s $1.65 billion  Emerging Markets Bond Fund (AVEMMBP) 
returned 9.9 percent annually over the past three years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Treasury Outlook  U.S.  10-year Treasury yields  reached an 11-month high of
2.08 percent on March 8 as a recovery in the U.S. housing market
fueled speculation that the Federal Reserve will end its bond
purchases and withdraw monetary stimulus. The yields have since
fallen 23 basis points to 1.85 percent as banking turmoil in
Cyprus rekindled the  European debt crisis  and spurred demand for
Treasuries as a haven.  Ten-year Treasury yields will rise to 2.31 percent by the
end of the year, according to the median forecast of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Enzo Puntillo, the head of fixed income and a portfolio
manager for emerging-market securities at Swiss & Global Asset
Management AG in Zurich, said he’s starting to add emerging-
market bonds, expecting a return as high as 7 percent over the
next 12 months.  U.S. Treasuries are stabilizing as the Fed reiterates
commitments to keeping borrowing costs low, according to
Puntillo. At about 5 percent, emerging-market bond yields are
high enough to withstand volatility, he said.  Bond Returns  “It is one of the most attractive credit asset classes
right now,” Puntillo said. “Five percent yield is not that bad
overall, considering that you get zero yields in most safe
assets and you need to go in pure high-yield corporates to get
5.5 percent yield or so.”  Emerging market corporate debt  returned 1 percent this
year, JPMorgan’s CEMBI Broad Diversified Index shows. Average
 yields  have increased to 4.62 percent, from 4.55 percent on Dec.
31.  AllianceBernstein’s Denoon said he favors corporate
securities over emerging-market government bonds.  “We are broadening into corporate bonds to get the
benefits of diversification,” Denoon said.  Emerging-market corporate bonds are less sensitive to
Treasury moves than the government bonds, according to data
compiled by Bank of America Corp. The average duration of
emerging-market government debt, a measure of sensitivity to
interest-rate moves, was 7.05 years, compared with 5.23 years
for corporate securities, Bank of America’s data show.  A JPMorgan survey last month showed investors reduced
holdings of emerging-market government debt to the lowest level
since October 2008. JPMorgan cut its recommendation on emerging-
market dollar-denominated government bonds to neutral from
overweight on March 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  