-- Banks Lead Gains in Istanbul Stocks After S&P Upgrades Turkey
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-03-28T09:28:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/banks-lead-gains-in-istanbul-stocks-after-s-p-upgrades-turkey.html
Akbank TAS (AKBNK) ,  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi
AS (GARAN)  and  Turkiye Halk Bankasi AS (HALKB)  led gains in Turkish equities
after  Standard & Poor’s  raised the nation’s sovereign rating to
one level below investment grade.  Akbank and Garanti rose 0.6 percent each to 9.4 liras and
9.5 liras, respectively, at 11:09 a.m. in Istanbul. State-run
Halkbank advanced 0.8 percent to 19.15 liras. The 16-member
 banking index  rose as much as 1.4 percent to its highest
intraday level since Jan. 28. The Istanbul Stock Exchange
National 100 index gained 0.5 percent to 84,634.33 points,
extending its climb to 8.2 percent this year.  Standard & Poor’s raised Turkey’s long-term foreign
currency credit rating to BB+ from BB after the market closed
yesterday. The agency cited a rebalancing in the economy,
resilience to potential shifts in capital inflows, a well-
capitalized banking industry and movement toward a political
settlement to resolve tensions with Turkey’s Kurdish population.  “If Moody’s Investors Service also considers the positive
developments regarding the Kurdish issue, it can follow with an
upgrade to investment level,” Ayse Colak, executive vice
president at Tera Brokers in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments
today. “We expect Turkey’s positive decoupling from other
 emerging markets  to continue on expectations of such a move.”  Moody’s raised Turkey’s credit rating to Ba1 in June, also
one level below investment grade. Fitch Ratings upgraded Turkey
to BBB- in November, the lowest investment grade-level and
Turkey’s first such rating in 18 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  