-- Barbara Walters Said Announcing Retirement in May 2014
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-03-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/barbara-walters-said-announcing-retirement-in-may-2014.html
Barbara Walters, the first woman to
co-anchor a network evening newscast, plans to retire in May
2014, said a person with knowledge of the situation.  Walters, age 81 according to Marquis Who’s Who, will make
the announcement herself in a few weeks, said the person, who
requested anonymity because the plans haven’t been made public.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC will honor Walters with a number of
specials, the person said. She joined ABC News in 1976, becoming
the first woman to co-anchor a network newscast. Today she is
co-owner and co-host of “The View,” a daytime talk show on
ABC, and produces special network reports, including the annual
“The 10 Most Fascinating People.”  Jeffrey Schneider, a spokesman for ABC News, declined to
comment. Cindi Berger, chief executive officer of PMK-BNC in New
York and a spokeswoman for Walters, didn’t respond to messages
seeking comment.  Walters returned to “The View” this month after being out
since January after a fall at the British ambassador’s residence
in  Washington . In May 2010, she missed several months while
recovering from surgery to repair a faulty heart valve.  While being treated at the hospital for the fall, Walters
was diagnosed with chicken pox. On the March 4 episode of “The
View,” Walters said she caught the illness giving a “well-
known actor” a New Year’s hug and kiss on the cheek.  Every President  Walters has interviewed every American president and first
lady since Richard Nixon, according to a biography at the
website of “The View.” She became nationally known as a
television personality on NBC’s “Today” show in the 1960s,
eventually becoming co-host of the program.  Over the years she interviewed  Russia ’s Boris Yeltsin,
 China ’s Jiang Zemin, former U.K. prime minister Margaret Thatcher, Libya’s Muammar Qadaffi and Iraqi President Saddam Hussein, according to her biography.  In 1977, Walters was the first journalist to arrange a
joint interview with  Egypt  President Anwar Sadat and Israeli
Prime Minister Menachem Begin.  Walter’s 1999 interview with Monica Lewinsky, the first TV
interview granted by the former Clinton White House intern,
remains the highest-rated news program aired by a single
network, according to the biography.  She was also the first American journalist to interview
Russia’s President Vladimir Putin and scored the first interview
with President George W. Bush and first lady Laura Bush after
the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.  In September 2004, after 25 years as co-host and chief
correspondent for ABC News’ “20/20,” Walters left the show to
focus on “Barbara Walters Specials.”  Disney, based in  Burbank ,  California , gained 0.6 percent to
$56.80 yesterday in New York. The stock has gained 14 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  