-- Berezovsky Was Found With Noose Around His Neck, Police Say
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-03-28T10:15:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/berezovsky-was-found-with-noose-around-his-neck-police-say.html
Boris Berezovsky , the Russian
oligarch who died last week at his U.K. home, was found with a
noose around his neck.  A similar piece of material was tied to the shower rail
above the 67-year-old in the bathroom where he was discovered,
Detective Inspector Mark Bissell of Thames Valley Police said on
the first day of a coroner’s inquest in Windsor,  England , today.  Berezovsky died March 23 from hanging with no evidence of a
violent struggle, U.K. police said earlier this week following
an initial autopsy. The results of additional tests, including
toxicology and histology examinations, won’t be known for
several weeks.  Once a multibillionaire, Berezovsky faced mounting debt and
last year lost one of the largest U.K. civil lawsuits
ever filed against  Roman Abramovich , the Russian owner of the
Chelsea Football Club. Berezovsky, the judge said in her ruling
in August, was “unimpressive and inherently unreliable.”  Alex Goldfarb , who described himself as friend of
Berezovsky’s, told reporters outside the inquest that the
Russian native seemed normal other than being under stress when
they last spoke.  “He discussed plans, I didn’t come to any alarming
thoughts,” Goldfarb said.  U.K. Exile  Berezovsky lived in self-imposed exile in the U.K. to avoid
prosecution in  Russia . No stranger to Russian
power as a friend and confidant of  Boris Yeltsin , he sparred
publicly in recent years with President  Vladimir Putin .  Berezovsky fled Russia for the U.K. in 2000 after backing
Putin in his first presidential campaign. He was given political
asylum three years later. Berezovsky said in a 2007 interview
that he was worth $4 billion and that he was using a part of his
fortune to finance “a revolution in Russia without blood.”
Forbes magazine dropped the tycoon from its rich list in 2010,
after estimating his wealth at $1 billion the previous year.  Goldfarb said Berezovsky and Putin had waged a 13-year
fight that was personal and political.  “He always wanted to get back to Russia,” Goldfarb said.  Coroner Peter Bedford held a brief hearing today and
adjourned the proceedings. Berezovsky was identified by his
daughter, Elizaveta Berezovskaya, on March 26, Janine
Prunty, of the coroner’s office, said at the hearing.  Inquests in England and  Wales  are held to examine sudden or
unexplained deaths. Coroner’s inquests can come to a limited
number of verdicts including death by accident, suicide, or
unlawful killing. If there is insufficient evidence for any of
those, they record an “open verdict.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  