-- Berkeley Sees Dirks Claiming Place as Ivy With Public Mandate
-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 2013-03-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/berkeley-sees-dirks-claiming-place-as-ivy-with-public-mandate.html
After helping lead  Columbia
University ’s 17-acre expansion in upper Manhattan and its $5
billion fundraising campaign, Nicholas Dirks is taking a pay cut
to run the  University of California , Berkeley, the pre-eminent
U.S. public college that has seen its state funding fall 47
percent in the past five years.  State universities across the U.S. are reeling from budget
cuts and face increasing pressure to control rising tuition. At
Berkeley, students have clashed with riot police and the Ivy
League has raided its faculty. None of that deterred Dirks, 62,
Columbia’s former executive vice president and dean of the
faculty of arts and sciences.  “The more I studied the place, the more I realized it had
weathered the storm,” said Dirks, who becomes Berkeley’s next
chancellor on June 1. “It’s very much a contender for one of
the top universities in the world.”  At Columbia, Dirks took part in the streamlining of the
administration, a two-decade process that resulted in a reduced
role for the dean of Columbia College, who resigned. Dirks said
the reorganization made the university more functional. Claude Steele, who served with Dirks as Columbia’s provost, said
actions made with good intentions can leave bruises, and Dirks
has been the target of those lashing out.  “Columbia is an ambitious university and it tried to
expand into a new campus and that strained resources,” said
Steele, now dean of  Stanford University ’s Graduate School of
Education. “When you have strained resources, you have
tensions. And tensions can be taken out on people.”  Spending Increases  Dirks is moving from a private university to an institution
whose decisions are scrutinized by taxpayers and legislators.
After years of budget cuts and tuition increases, which led to
violent protests on campus in 2011, Berkeley’s finances have
stabilized after Californians approved a tax hike in November.  Governor  Jerry Brown ’s proposed state budget  increases
spending  on public universities by 5 percent in fiscal years
2014 and 2015, and then by 4 percent in each of the next two
years.  The exodus of faculty has also slowed. In the 2009-2010
year, Berkeley had 51 professors it wanted to retain who were
weighing offers from other colleges, and 14 left, according to
Vice Provost Janet Broughton. Two years later, the number with
other offers fell to 33, with 26 staying and seven cases still
open. Berkeley has 1,582 full-time professors, according to its
website.  ‘Better Position’  “It’s not all doom and gloom,” said Christina Maslach, a
psychology professor who heads the academic senate. “It’s been
challenging but we’re in a much better position for the
future.”  Dirks said his mandate will include finding new sources of
revenue and further reducing Berkeley’s dependence on state
funding, which has slid from 35 percent of its budget in 2003 to
 12 percent last year . While he said it was too early for him to
talk about his plans, Dirks said fundraising needs be a priority
and he expects to invest in the development office.  Dirks seems at ease with the challenge of being chancellor
of Berkeley and “the de facto spokesman for public higher
education in America,” said  Donald McQuade , an English
professor who served on the university’s search committee.  “This is the university as town square,” McQuade, a
former vice chancellor, said in a phone interview. “As a leader
in a place like this, you need to signal you are listening to
people and you understand them.”  ‘Palpable’ Commitment  Almost 10,000, or 38 percent, of Berkeley undergraduates
receive federal  Pell Grants  for low-income students, about the
same number as in the eight-member  Ivy League , Dirks said. The
school’s public mission also directs its professors’ research
into areas such as  climate change  and clean energy, he said.  “The faculty and staff have a commitment to the place as a
public institution and it’s quite palpable,” Dirks said.  Dirks grew up outside  New Haven , Connecticut, where his
father was a professor of religious studies at  Yale University .
His father later became vice chancellor of humanities at the
University of  California , Santa Cruz, which Dirks said gave him
his first taste of that state’s higher-education system.  At  Wesleyan University , in Middletown, Connecticut, Dirks
majored in African and Asian Studies, and earned his Ph.D. in
history from the  University of Chicago  in 1981. He taught at the
 California Institute of Technology  in  Pasadena , before taking a
job at the  University of Michigan  in Ann Arbor, where he helped
create a joint history and anthropology program.  Lower Salary  Dirks arrived at Columbia in 1997 to chair the anthropology
department, and President  Lee Bollinger  named him dean in 2004.
Dirks resigned as dean in November after being named Berkeley’s
chancellor.  At Columbia, he started master’s courses and online
extension programs which Dirks said made money. While Berkeley
has joined the  EdX  open online course platform developed by
 Harvard University  and the  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology , “in the short term, I really don’t see revenue
generation,” Dirks said.  Dirks will have a base salary of $486,000 at Berkeley, less
than what he earned at Columbia, he said.  Founded in 1868, Berkeley has eight  Nobel Prize  laureates
on its faculty. Its 178-acre core campus sits on a wooded
hillside overlooking the  San Francisco  Bay, a long way from
Columbia’s Morningside Heights campus jammed between Broadway
and Amsterdam Avenue in  New York .  Berkeley raised $405 million in fiscal 2012, according to
the Council for Aid to Education. That figure can be improved
upon, said Richard Blum, founder of the Blum Capital Partners LP
investment firm and a University of California regent.  ‘Vested Interest’  “Just look at the Bay Area: If you want to include all the
tech companies from San Francisco to San Jose, you’re looking at
three-quarters of a trillion dollars,” Blum said. “Apple,
Oracle, Google. All of those places have a vested interest in
seeing the University of California doing well.”  Berkeley’s endowment was valued at  $3.03 billion  as of June
30, according to the University of California.  Dirks needs to develop relationships with Silicon Valley,
said Blum, who is married to U.S. Senator  Dianne Feinstein .  “Is a chancellor’s job a lot of fundraising? You bet,”
Blum said. “He understands what needs to be done.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in London at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  