-- Biogen Gains U.S. Approval to Sell Its First Pill for MS
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-03-28T20:21:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/biogen-gains-u-s-approval-to-sell-its-first-pill-for-ms.html
Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) , the fourth-
largest U.S. biotechnology company by market value, rose to a
record price after the drugmaker won U.S. approval for its first
pill for multiple sclerosis, Tecfidera.  Biogen gained 5.4 percent to $192.62 at the close in  New
York , after rising 3.2 percent yesterday on news the Food and
Drug Administration granted the medicine marketing approval. The
shares are at their  highest price  since the company first sold
stock publicly in September 1991.  Tecfidera, formerly known as BG-12, may generate $3.25
billion in annual revenue by 2017 for the Weston, Massachusetts-
based company, according to the average of eight analysts’
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The drug follows  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s
Gilenya and  Sanofi (SAN) ’s Aubagio to the market as oral options for
MS, a central nervous system disease otherwise treated by
injection or infusion. MS affects 2.1 million worldwide,
according to the  National Multiple Sclerosis Society .  “It really is going to be a great addition to the
toolbox,”  Timothy Coetzee , chief research officer of the
National Multiple Sclerosis Society, said in an interview before
the approval was announced. “There seems to be quite a lot of
patient awareness about it. I wouldn’t be surprised if people,
if they live with relapsing-remitting MS, at their next visit
with their doctor say, ‘What do you think about Tecfidera?
Should I try it?’”  MS causes symptoms from limb numbness to paralysis and
blindness. The most common form is relapsing-remitting,
characterized by sporadic neurological attacks followed by
periods of recovery. Because of its efficacy, safety and dosing
convenience, Tecfidera may gain as much as 20 percent of the
market in its first year, Cowen & Co. analyst Eric Schmidt
projects.  Clinical Trials  The  Food and Drug Administration  announced the approval
yesterday in a statement. The drug is recommended to be taken
twice a day and Biogen will make it available to patients in the
U.S. in the coming days, the company said in a statement.  Tecfidera was shown in two studies to reduce patients’
annual relapse rate by 49 percent when given either twice a day
or three times a day. It cut the proportion of patients who
relapsed by 43 percent at twice-daily dosing and 47 percent at
three times daily compared with placebo.  Side effects were similar across the placebo and treatment
groups, with the most common adverse events associated with
Tecfidera being flushing and gastrointestinal effects, according
to the company.  Blood Cells  The FDA recommended that a patient’s white blood cell count
be assessed before starting treatment with the pill. While the
medicine may decrease these infection-fighting cells, no
significant increase in infections was seen in patients taking
Tecfidera in clinical trials, the agency said in its statement.  “Relative to other MS drugs, such as Tysabri and Gilenya,
this basic test is a much less invasive requirement,”  Andrew Berens , an analyst with Bloomberg Industries, wrote in a
research note after yesterday’s approval.  Biogen shares have gained 53 percent in the past 12 months
and doubled since April 2011 when the company first reported
positive data from a late-stage trial of Tecfidera.  The drug was recommended for marketing approval by European
Union health regulators on March 22, the same day as Paris-based
Sanofi’s Aubagio, another oral option for MS. Aubagio already is
approved in the U.S. Though Sanofi’s drug has the advantage of
being a pill, its “efficacy profile is not that impressive
versus other oral compounds,” Asthika Goonewardene, an analyst
for Bloomberg Industries in  London , said in a telephone
interview. Analysts  estimate  the medicine will have 2017 sales
of 718 million euros ($917 million).  Gilenya’s Use  Basel, Switzerland-based Novartis’s Gilenya, the first oral
treatment approved for MS, has safety issues that hamper its
widespread use. U.S. and European regulators placed new safety
precautions on the drug’s use last year after a three-month
review triggered by the deaths of 15 patients. Doctors shouldn’t
prescribe Gilenya to patients with a history of cardiovascular
and cerebrovascular disease or who take heart-rate lowering
medication, regulators said. Analysts  expect  2017 revenue of
$2.7 billion, according to the average of 10 estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  Biogen CEO  “With the FDA approval of Tecfidera, we will offer the MS
community a treatment with strong efficacy and a favorable
safety profile in the convenience of a pill -- a combination we
believe will have a significant positive impact on the way
people live with this chronic disease,” Biogen Chief Executive
Officer George Scangos said in the company’s statement. “We
believe Tecfidera will raise expectations for what people living
with MS can achieve with their therapy.”  Biogen also makes the MS drugs Avonex, administered by
injection, and Tysabri, given through intravenous infusion.
Tecfidera may be priced at $50,000 to $55,000 a year, lower than
Gilenya at $58,000 and higher than Aubagio at $45,000, said
 Michael Yee , an RBC Capital Markets analyst in  San Francisco .  “We believe this is an attractive level of pricing given
Tecfidera’s combined efficacy and safety profile,” he wrote in
a research note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  