-- BNP Buys Indonesia as Yen Slump Improves Finances: Asean Credit
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-03-29T05:14:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/bnp-buys-indonesia-as-yen-slump-improves-finances-asean-credit.html
BNP Paribas Investment Partners is
allocating funds to  Southeast Asia  as the yen weakens, betting
Indonesia and the Philippines will gain from lower import costs.  Indonesia, which suffered a record current-account deficit
last year, imported $17.3 billion of goods from  Japan  in the
first nine months of 2012, almost  four times  the full-year total
10 years earlier, statistics office data show. The rupiah’s 19
percent rally against the yen in the past six months cut the
cost of purchases. Around 12 percent of Indonesian imports and 9
percent of those in the Philippines came from Japan, according
to official data.  The performance of Asian currencies, stocks and bonds has
diverged this year as the yen’s slump burnished the finances of
Southeast Asian countries, while putting pressure on South Korea
and China, which compete with Japan in autos and electronics.
BNP’s Fischer Francis Trees & Watts unit, which manages $59
billion, holds more Indonesian and Philippine assets than the
weighting in the benchmark against which it tracks performance.  “When you look at the Philippines and Indonesia, they
actually import a great deal from Japan,”  John Morton , FFTW’s
Boston-based head of  emerging markets , said in an interview in
 Hong Kong  this month. “That will be a positive for their
current accounts.”  Japanese Easing  Bank of Japan’s loose monetary policy aimed at ending the
nation’s persistent deflation has driven a 17 percent plunge in
the yen to 94 per dollar in the past six months. The median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg is for the currency
to weaken to 97 by year-end, while Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken
AB said the yen could plunge to 110 as investors under-estimate
how much new Governor Haruhiko Kuroda will ease, according to a
March 27 research note.  The 10-year benchmark government bonds of Indonesia, rated
investment grade by Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings,
yield 5.49 percent, compared with 3.53 percent in the
Philippines, 3.46 percent in  Malaysia  and 3.48 percent in
Thailand. The rupiah has dropped 5.7 percent against the dollar
in the past year, while consumer-price gains in Southeast  Asia ’s
largest economy accelerated to a  20-month high  of 5.31 percent
in February, official data show.  ‘Attractive Return’  “In Indonesia’s case, we feel as though even with the
inflation trend and moderate  currency depreciation , we are still
earning an attractive return relative to other countries,”
FFTW’s Morton said.  The Philippines received its first investment-grade ranking
this week, when Fitch raised it one level to BBB- on March 27.
 Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s rate the country at the highest
junk level. The yield on the nation’s 9.5 percent dollar bond
due 2030 dropped three basis points to 4.18 percent on the day
of the upgrade and has declined 50 basis points in the past year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  FFTW’s Morton said he preferred sovereign dollar debt from
the Philippines and he also looks at some corporate notes from
the nation denominated in the greenback.  Of the major Southeast Asian currencies,  Thailand ’s baht
has been the biggest beneficiary of the weakening yen, gaining
27 percent against it in six months. The Philippine peso has
advanced 23 percent, while Malaysia’s ringgit and the  Singapore
dollar  rallied 19 percent.  Thai Baht  Japan is Thailand’s biggest foreign investor, with
companies including Toyota Motor Corp., Hitachi Ltd. and Canon
Inc. having manufacturing bases in the Southeast Asian nation,
taking advantage of the lower production costs. A weaker yen may
slow or halt the process of Thai production displacing Japan’s
and could impact the foreign direct investment flows into
Thailand, Lewis Jones, an emerging-market debt portfolio manager
at FFTW in  Boston , wrote in e-mailed comments on March 27.  “We don’t hold any  Thai baht  in the portfolio at present
and have a market-weight on the ringgit,” FFTW’s Morton said.  The  BNP Paribas L1 - Bond World Emerging Fund (FORBLCC)  has posted a
0.62 percent loss this year, beating 33 percent of its peers,
after a 3.44 percent gain in 2012, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Morton has been managing the fund for six months
after joining BNP Paribas from Rexiter Capital Management, a
subsidiary of State Street Global Advisors.  Indonesia’s current-account shortfall was $24.2 billion
last year and  foreign-exchange reserves  fell $7.6 billion in the
first two months of 2013 to a two-year low of $105.2 billion,
official data show. Overseas investors held 33 percent of
Indonesia’s local-currency debt as of March 26, near a record-
high 34 percent recorded in February, finance ministry data show.  ‘Safe Haven’  Five-year credit-default swaps on Indonesia’s debt rose 28
basis points this quarter to 164 basis points on March 28, the
highest since Sept. 5, according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated market.  “We’re cautious on Indonesia,” said Natasha Smirnova, the
London-based vice president for emerging-market fixed income at
PineBridge Investments, which oversees about $72 billion
worldwide. “When you have a widening current-account deficit
and inflation creeping up, typically you become vulnerable to
outflows from the local-currency market.”  The  Federal Reserve  should continue its bond-buying program
through the end of 2013, Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren  and
Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  said this week. The so-
called quantitative easing has increased investment flows into
higher-yielding developing-nation assets. FFTW’s fund dedicated
to emerging markets has been taking in about $75 million to $100
million of fresh money each week, according to Morton.  “For us, Asia is our safe-haven investment most of the
time,” he said. “In the past few years, we’ve been
reallocating money out of emerging  Europe  and redeploying it in
Asia, primarily in Indonesia and the Philippines.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  