-- BNP Conducting Review of ‘Significant’ U.S. Dollar Transactions
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2013-03-28T17:41:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/bnp-conducting-review-of-significant-u-s-dollar-transactions.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  France ’s largest
bank, is conducting a review of “a significant volume” of U.S.
dollar transactions with countries that may face American
economic sanctions.  The review covers “certain U.S. dollar payments involving
countries, persons and entities that could be subject to
economic sanctions under U.S. law,” the Paris-based bank said
in its  annual report . The transactions may be “impermissible”
under regulations such as those of the Office of Foreign Assets
Control, BNP Paribas said.  Global regulators last month called on banks to reinforce
risk management and oversight in response to recent scandals
that have eroded confidence in the financial system. A Feb. 12
study on lenders by the Financial Stability Board found that
“significant gaps” persist in risk management.  Societe Generale SA (GLE) , France’s second-largest bank, said
earlier this month that it has started discussions with OFAC and
begun an internal audit of dollar transfers for clients in
countries targeted by U.S. sanctions. London-based HSBC Holdings
Plc and Standard Chartered Plc paid fines in the U.S. over
failures to halt the laundering of money in sanctioned countries
such as  Iran .  BNP Paribas currently cannot assess “the specific amount
or even the general magnitude” of the review’s possible impact
on its results and financial situation, it said, without giving
further details of the transactions.  “When the bank completes this review, it will present its
findings and arguments to the U.S. authorities,” BNP Paribas
said. The timing to complete the review and “subsequent
discussions with the U.S. authorities is also uncertain,” BNP
Paribas said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  