-- BNY Mellon Judge Says He’s Not Inclined to Toss U.S. Suit
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-03-29T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/bny-mellon-judge-says-he-s-not-inclined-to-toss-u-s-suit.html
A federal judge said he was
“unpersuaded” by  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. ’s arguments
that he should dismiss a U.S. lawsuit claiming the bank
defrauded clients in foreign-exchange transactions.  BNY Mellon, the world’s largest custody bank, yesterday
asked U.S. District Judge Lewis Kaplan in New York to throw out
the suit filed by prosecutors in the office of  Manhattan  U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara in October 2011.  The U.S. argued against dismissal of the complaint, which
accused BNY Mellon of defrauding clients, including public
pension funds, of more than $1.5 billion through foreign-
currency trades. Bharara’s office alleged that the bank and
David Nichols, a managing director, violated the Financial
Institutions Reform Recovery and Enforcement Act, or FIRREA.  “I am unpersuaded by the defendants’ arguments on FIRREA
and you can expect I’ll deny the motion to that extent,” Kaplan
told lawyers yesterday after hearing from both sides.  The statute, passed in the wake of the savings-and-loan
scandals in the 1980s, requires a lower burden of proof than
criminal charges and has a longer statute of limitations than
other financial laws.  Prosecutors in Bharara’s office allege the defendants
intentionally made material misrepresentations to prospective
clients about the bank’s foreign exchange service, thereby
committing mail and wire fraud that affected federal insured
financial institutions.  ‘Worst Prices’  BNY Mellon  failed to disclose that it didn’t execute trades
and simply assigned clients “virtually the worst prices of the
day,” according to the complaint.  Under a partial settlement reached in January 2012, BNY
Mellon agreed it wouldn’t use the phrase “best execution” to
describe its standing instruction service to clients or say that
it is free. The U.S. was still seeking hundreds of millions of
dollars in civil penalties from the bank, Bharara said at the
time.  The case is U.S. v. Bank of New York Mellon Corporation,
11-cv-06969, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  