-- BOE Seen Keeping Bond Buying on Hold on Concerns About Inflation
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-03-28T17:26:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/boe-seen-keeping-bond-buying-on-hold-on-concerns-about-inflation.html
Bank of England  officials will
refrain from boosting their bond-buying program next week as
above-target inflation overrides concerns the economy may slip
into a triple-dip recession, economists said.  Governor  Mervyn King  and the Monetary Policy Committee will
keep the quantitative-easing target at 375 billion pounds ($569
billion), according to 32 of 35 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. They will also leave the benchmark  interest rate  at a
record-low  0.5 percent  in a decision to be announced at noon on
April 4, a separate survey showed.  King and two other policy makers were defeated for a second
month in March in a push for more stimulus as the majority of
the MPC said it might erode their credibility and push the pound
lower. Still, the BOE may increase QE next month if data on
April 25 show Britain slipped into its third slump in five years
in the first quarter, according to Capital Economics Ltd.  “The latest economic data have probably not been weak
enough to persuade anyone to switch sides,” said Capital
Economics chief U.K. economist  Vicky Redwood . “Nonetheless, a
big negative” GDP figure “could well be enough to push some
members into the governor’s camp.”  Minutes of the MPC’s March 6-7 meeting showed officials
voted 6-3 to keep QE on hold. King,  David Miles  and  Paul Fisher 
wanted a 25 billion-pound increase.  The MPC majority said that with  price growth  above their 2
percent goal, there was a risk that adding to stimulus “could
lead to inflation expectations drifting upwards.” It might also
cause an “unwarranted depreciation of sterling if it were
misinterpreted as a lack of commitment to maintaining low
inflation in the medium term.”  The currency’s weakness may stoke price pressures by
boosting the cost of imports. Inflation accelerated to 2.8
percent in February, the 39th month it was above the goal.  “Their worries about inflation are not going to disappear
soon, given that inflation will probably remain above its target
for the rest of this year,” Redwood said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  