-- BofA Files Notice of MBIA Restructuring Case Appeal
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-03-29T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/bofa-files-notice-of-mbia-restructuring-case-appeal.html
Bank of America Corp.  and  Societe
Generale SA (GLE)  appealed a judge’s decision upholding regulatory
approval of bond insurer  MBIA Inc. (MBI) ’s 2009 restructuring, which
they say harmed them as policyholders.  New York Supreme Court Justice Barbara Kapnick was wrong
when she dismissed a lawsuit by the banks seeking to reverse
approval by the state’s insurance regulator, they said in a
court papers filed yesterday.  The trial court erred in not annulling the approval because
it “was arbitrary and capricious and an abuse of discretion,”
they said.  In 2009, New York Insurance Department Superintendent  Eric Dinallo  approved the split, allowing MBIA to move the company’s
guarantees on state and municipal bonds out of its MBIA
Insurance Corp. unit, which guaranteed some of Wall Street’s
most toxic mortgage debt.  The banks said during a month of oral arguments last year
that the approval was based on inaccurate and incomplete
information provided by Armonk, New York-based MBIA. They say
the split exposed them to losses as holders of financial-
guaranty policies by siphoning more than $5 billion in assets
from MBIA Insurance.  In a March 4 decision, Kapnick dismissed the banks’
lawsuit, which was brought under New York law allowing court
challenges to state agency decisions.  Kevin Brown, an MBIA spokesman, declined to comment on the
appeal. A spokesman for the New York Department of Financial
Services, which combines the functions of the state’s banking
and insurance regulators, didn’t immediately respond to an e-
mail yesterday seeking comment on it.  The case is ABN Amro Bank NV v. Dinallo, 601846-2009, New
York State Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 