-- Bond Exodus Concern Exaggerated, Barclays’s Bamford Says
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2013-03-28T17:38:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/bond-market-exodus-concern-exaggerated-barclays-s-bamford-says.html
Concern that investors will shift
into equities from bonds is overblown as issuance and corporate
health remained strong in the first quarter, said Mark Bamford,
the head of global fixed-income syndicate at  Barclays Plc. (BARC)   “The rumors of our fixed-income market demise are greatly
exaggerated,” Bamford, who is based in New York, said today in
an interview with  Stephanie Ruhle  on Bloomberg Television’s
“Market Makers.” More than $1 trillion of global issuance this
year, while behind 2012’s pace, is “very strong” compared with
previous quarters, he said.  Speculation began mounting last year that investors would
start a disorderly shift from bonds, causing borrowing costs to
soar. Bank of America Corp. strategists called it the biggest
risk to investment-grade debt in 2013.  It’s a risk “we are getting increasingly concerned
about,” Bank of America’s Hans Mikkelsen in New York said in a
Jan. 28 report. “We now consider it most likely that total
returns will fall short of our low 1.6 percent target.”  About 90 percent of bond offerings are intended to
refinance debt, Bamford said. Borrowers are locking in yields
that have fallen to 3.26 percent as of yesterday from 8.21
percent at the end of 2008, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data show. He expects to see industrial companies lead issuance
in the U.S. and globally.  “I see no indication that fundamentals and the things
underpinning the strength of the market are going to go away
anytime soon,” Bamford said. “It is overall a refinancing
trend.”  The so-called great rotation from bonds into stocks was
also questioned this month by Jeffrey Gundlach, chief executive
officer of Los Angeles-based DoubleLine Capital LP.  “Every share of stock is owned, so for someone who rotates
in, someone must sell and move out of stocks,” Gundlach, whose
firm manages about $53 billion, said March 5 in a webcast
organized by the firm. “Someone has to rotate out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarika Gangar in New York at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  