-- Boston Mayor Menino’s Decision Sets Off Frenzied Race
-- B y   A n n i e   L i n s k e y
-- 2013-03-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/boston-mayor-menino-won-t-seek-sixth-term-after-illness.html
Boston  Mayor Thomas Menino’s
decision to end his reign, the longest in the city’s 383-year
history, set off a frenzied contest to replace him in the first
mayoral election to lack an incumbent in three decades.  “The race will be totally wide open and hotly contested,”
said Paul Watanabe, the chairman of the political science
department at the University of Massachusetts Boston. That
hasn’t been the case since Democrat Kevin White said he wouldn’t
seek re-election in 1983.  Before Menino said he wouldn’t run for a sixth term
yesterday, City Councilor John Connolly had already challenged
the incumbent last month. Others who may make a bid for the
office include City Councilors Rob Consalvo and Tito Jackson, as
well as state Representative Martin Walsh, a Democrat from the
city’s Dorchester section, according to local news outlets.  Menino, a 70-year-old Democrat, said he will step down in
January in a 20-minute speech to a packed auditorium in the 271-
year-old Faneuil Hall that the mayor’s office overlooks. Saying
he has nine more months and isn’t “letting up,” he pledged to
stay out of the campaign to choose his replacement.  “I have no plans to pick the person to fill this seat,”
Menino said. “I just ask that you choose someone who loves this
city as much as I do.”  Tears, Memories  A who’s who of Massachusetts politics including Governor
 Deval Patrick , a Democrat, crowded into the hall on the second
floor to hear the mayor’s formal announcement of an end to his
20 years in the city’s top job. As they listened to a soundtrack
that included recordings such as “The Times They Are a-
Changin’” by  Bob Dylan  and “These Are Days” by 10,000 Maniacs
with Natalie Merchant, the luminaries mingled, shed tears and
shared memories.  Around 4 p.m., the mayor slowly made his way down a center
aisle to the sounds of  Frank Sinatra  singing “My Way,” the
crowd came to its feet and applauded. Surrounded by friends and
family at the podium, Menino said: “I’m here with the people I
love to tell the city I love that I will leave the job that I
love.”  Despite health issues that have best him in recent months,
he remained defiant, saying that if he wanted to stay in office
he could. “I can run,” he said. “I can win.” However, as he
continued, Menino said he should have been in a physical therapy
session instead of making his speech.  Health Concerns  In recent months, illnesses have slowed the mayor. He was
hospitalized in late October for treatments that kept him
bedridden for eight weeks. Along with a fractured spine,
ailments included blood clots,  Type 2 diabetes  and an acute
respiratory infection, according to the Boston Globe. At the end
of January, he walked with a cane to his annual State of the
City speech and, this week, he had trouble climbing the stairs
at a gay-rights event.  Throughout the day statements of praise for Menino poured
in, including one from President  Barack Obama , who credited him
with making Boston into a “vibrant, welcoming, and world-class
city.” Harvard University President Drew Faust wrote that the
mayor made an “indelible impression.”  Menino, who filled the office in July 1993 when then-Mayor
Ray Flynn was named U.S. Ambassador to  Rome , was elected in his
own right that November, becoming the first Italian-American to
hold the post. Menino is known for helping the Massachusetts
capital shed an insular reputation, and for his dedication to
the nuts and bolts of governance.  Revitalized City  The mayor has overseen an era of commercial and residential
redevelopment, including a Seaport District dotted with cranes.
He’s been a fixture in Boston neighborhoods, with his daily
public schedule often including a half-dozen events. A recent
Globe survey showed that more than half of respondents in
Boston, a city of 625,000 residents, said they had met him at
least once.  “He’s been the dominant figure for 20 years,” said
Maurice Cunningham, a political-science professor at the
University of Massachusetts Boston. “Boston has had some
outsized figures as mayor. He stands above all of them.”  Menino had a 74 percent approval rating among city
residents in a March 26 Globe poll. The survey showed that 60
percent said his health was a “concern.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annie Linskey in Boston at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  