-- BP, Shell to Drill for More Reserves at Offshore Clair Field
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2013-03-28T16:38:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/bp-shell-to-drill-five-appraisal-wells-in-offshore-clair-field.html
BP Plc (BP/)  and its partners agreed to
drill five additional wells at the Clair field west of
Scotland’s Shetland Islands as Europe’s second-biggest oil
company seeks to expand the giant discovery.  The program will look at the possibility of developing a
third phase, the London-based company said today in an e-mailed
statement.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and  Chevron
Corp. (CVX)  are the partners in the project that will require an
initial investment of more than $500 million. The first well has
already started.  “It shows the industry’s commitment to maximize the
potential in this area, which could hold up to 17 percent of our
oil and gas reserves,” U.K. Energy Secretary Edward Davey said
in the statement. “Greater Clair proves there is still a long
future for oil and gas production in the  North Sea .”  The U.K. government, seeking to boost domestic oil and gas
resources and reduce imports, approved tax breaks last year to
boost investment in North Sea fields. The incentives included 3
billion pounds ($4.5 billion) of allowances to spur development
of “large and deep fields” west of the Shetland Islands.  BP slipped 0.8 percent to close at 459.9 pence in London.  BP and its partners agreed to invest 4.5 billion pounds in
Clair Ridge in 2011, the second phase of the project at the
field discovered in 1977 that will produce as many as 120,000
barrels of oil a day. The areas west of the Shetland Islands
provide the best opportunities for discoveries in the U.K., Wood
Mackenzie Ltd. said Jan. 9.  Separately, the U.K. government promised to give tax
incentives to encourage investment in offshore drilling. The
U.K. will also give 7 million pounds to Newcastle University to
establish an offshore engineering research center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  