-- Brazil Sees 25% Chance of Inflation Above Target Ceiling in 2013
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2013-03-28T12:31:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/brazil-sees-25-chance-of-inflation-above-target-ceiling-in-2013.html
Brazil ’s central bank said
inflationary pressures have spread, increasing the probability
that price increases will breach the target’s upper range for
the first time in a decade.  Policy makers estimate there is a 25 percent chance
consumer prices will exceed 6.5 percent this year, even after
raising the benchmark interest rate to 8 percent this year from
a record low 7.25 percent, according to the quarterly inflation
report published today. In December, they saw a 14 percent
chance of breeching the inflation ceiling. They forecast the
economy will grow 3.1 percent.  President  Dilma Rousseff  said yesterday that while the
government is attentive to inflation, she opposes measures that
will undermine economic expansion. Her administration is trying
to recover from two years of slowing growth without further
stoking inflation that accelerated more than analysts expected
in the eight months through February.  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2015 fell one
basis point to 8.44 percent at 9:17 a.m. local time. The real
strengthened 0.18 percent to 2.0075 per  U.S. dollar .  Policy makers, in their quarterly inflation report today,
said consumer prices will increase 5.8 percent this year,
according to its market scenario, which considers the key rate
at 8 percent and the  exchange rate  at 2 per dollar by year end.
In December, the bank said prices would rise 4.9 percent this
year.  Policy makers cut the benchmark  interest rate  to a record
in October and have since kept it unchanged. As part of the plan
to boost economic growth without stoking inflation, the
administration reduced taxes on food and payrolls, and cut
energy costs.  Annual inflation accelerated to 6.31 percent in February
from 6.15 percent the month prior.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  