-- Break Up the BRICS
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-03-28T22:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/break-up-the-brics.html
If this week’s BRICS summit in
Durban, South Africa, passed you by, we don’t blame you. The
leaders of Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa met, as
they do once a year, to advance their common interests. They
found, as they do once a year, that they don’t have many, so not
much happened.  What’s worse, one common interest they do have is ill-
served by the BRICS grouping and by their leaders’ desire to
develop formal institutions around it. That valid interest is to
give big fast-growing nations -- a group that extends far beyond
the arbitrarily selected club of BRICS -- the voice they should
have at the World Bank, International Monetary Fund and other
global economic bodies. In pursuing this goal, the BRICS leaders
would be wise to be less ambitious for their ill-sorted alliance
and more ambitious for the developing world as a whole.  Summits must have something to discuss and this week’s
gathering focused on plans to create a  new development bank ,
supposedly to rival the World Bank. One wonders how seriously
even the BRICS’ leaders are taking this idea. It was considered
at the previous summit, and after a year of study and
consultation, it is barely inching forward. Basic issues such as
the apportioning of capital contributions, the eventual location
of the bank (an especially sensitive topic) and even what
exactly it would do remain unresolved. The lack of progress
amounts to tacit agreement that nothing is ever going to happen.  So much the better. The BRICS don’t need their own
development bank. What they need is to pool their influence with
that of other big and fast-growing nations so that existing
development institutions aren’t run for the sole convenience of
the U.S. and Europe.  This is a legitimate grievance. It’s scandalous that an
arrangement formed decades ago in a different geopolitical era
still controls representation and appointments to the top jobs.
Under this deal, an American always leads the World Bank and a
European always leads the IMF. That’s indefensible -- yet the
BRICS couldn’t line up behind an alternative candidate for the
World Bank job last year (it went to Jim Yong Kim, an American)
or for the IMF in 2011 (Christine Lagarde of France got the
nod). On the issue where their alliance makes best sense, they
failed to unite, let alone lead the emerging economies as a
whole.  An investment analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. famously
came up with the BRIC designation (South Africa was an
afterthought) in 2001, and it was of doubtful utility even in
that line of work. These countries’ export markets, import
requirements, industrial structures, sources of finance,
problems, prospects and levels of development are all quite
different. In geopolitical terms, the alliance is even more
pointless.  It’s usually good to meet and talk, but institution-
building -- such as the plan to create a new bank -- involves an
outlay of money and effort that would be better spent on
repairing the institutions we already have.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 