-- Breuer Returning to Covington After Four Years at Justice
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-03-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/breuer-returning-to-covington-after-four-years-at-justice.html
After four years leading U.S.
government efforts to prosecute financial crime,  Lanny Breuer  is
returning to private practice where he’ll help expand his old
law firm’s white-collar criminal defense practice.  Breuer, who this month left his job as head of the Justice
Department’s criminal division, will become the vice chairman of
Covington & Burling LLP, the firm he’s spent parts of 19 years
with over the course of his career.  His return to private practice ends a term in which the
division secured some of the largest criminal settlements in the
department’s history, even as it faced criticism for not
bringing cases against  Wall Street  executives over the 2008
financial crisis.  The 54-year-old Breuer rejoins Covington’s Washington
office in a newly created role. As vice chairman, he said he
plans to spearhead the development of a large practice covering
white-collar defense, civil-litigation and crisis-management.  “I now have such an intuitive and nuanced sense of how the
Justice Department, how the government, makes important
decisions,” Breuer said in an interview yesterday at the firm’s
Washington office. “I believe I can help companies and
individuals act appropriately.”  Breuer has a two-year “cooling off” period where he isn’t
allowed to set foot in the Justice Department or work on issues
he oversaw while leading the criminal division. He said he’s
allowed to advise clients on new matters and will have “an
ethics officer on speed-dial” while navigating his return to
Covington, the only place he’s worked in private practice.  Clinton Impeachment  A  New York  native, Breuer served in the White House
counsel’s office under President  Bill Clinton  from 1997 through
1999 and defended Clinton during his Senate impeachment trial
and a number of congressional investigations.  After leaving the White House, Breuer served as the co-
chairman of Covington’s white-collar and investigations practice
group before he was nominated in 2009 by President  Barack Obama 
to take over the Justice Department’s criminal division.  Breuer’s list of clients before his time at the Justice
Department read like a who’s who of corporate giants, including
 Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) , Koch Industries Inc.,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , according to the disclosure
forms he filed with the government ethics office in 2009.  Former Major League Baseball star  Roger Clemens  and former
Citigroup Inc. Chief Executive Office Charles Prince are also
among his previous clients, according to the disclosures.  Crisis Criticism  While at the Justice Department, Breuer’s division oversaw
the largest criminal resolution in U.S. history: the $4 billion
settlement with BP Plc over the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
Its investigation into the rigging of  interest rates  continues
after settlements with two major banks, criminal charges against
two traders and a guilty plea from a bank subsidiary.  Still, Breuer’s critics said there were shortcomings of his
tenure, including an inability to pin cases on high-level Wall
Street executives and the refusal to indict some financial
institutions in connection with the 2008 crisis.  Throughout his tenure, Breuer maintained that had there
been enough evidence to make a case for prosecuting top
financial industry executives, his division or U.S. Attorneys
offices around the country would have brought charges.  His public comments on the Justice Department’s policy of
examining the economic impact of pursuing prosecutions against
the largest Wall Street firms drew criticism from lawmakers
including Senators Sherrod Brown, an Ohio Democrat, and  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican.  Gun Operation  “These statements raise important questions about the
Justice Department’s prosecutorial philosophy,” Brown and
Grassley wrote in a Jan. 29 letter to Attorney General Eric Holder. “There should not be one set of rules that apply to
Wall Street and another set for the rest of us.”  Lawmakers also faulted him for failing to notify superiors
of problems during a bungled federal gun operation known as Fast
and Furious. Breuer was admonished by Holder after he
acknowledged in 2011 that he knew discredited “gun walking”
tactics were used in an operation prior to Fast and Furious and
didn’t alert his superiors or take steps to prevent them from
being used again.  Still, when Breuer announced in January that he was
leaving, Holder praised him for “accomplishing record penalties
in corruption cases at home and abroad and dismantling major
organized crime and health-care fraud networks around the
country while also protecting the integrity of our banking
system and fighting financial fraud.”  ‘Talented Advocates’  Timothy Hester, the chairman of Covington’s management
committee, called Breuer “one of the most talented advocates
and counselors of his generation.” Breuer’s new role will
include working with clients on global and strategic business,
litigation and compliance issues, Hester said in a statement.  Some former clients have contacted him since his departure,
Breuer said. He also might try to lure some of his former
colleagues at the  Justice Department  to the firm when
opportunities arise.  Breuer didn’t rule out returning to government service some
day.  “It’s not like two weeks after I left I was pining to be
there,” he said. “I don’t feel like I left much on the
table.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  