-- Business Activity in U.S. Expanded at a Slower Pace in March
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-03-28T14:02:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/business-activity-in-u-s-expanded-at-a-slower-pace-in-march.html
Business activity in the U.S.
expanded in March at a slower pace than forecast, a sign the
rebound in manufacturing will cool.  The MNI Chicago Report’s business  barometer  fell to 52.4
this month, the lowest level of the year, from 56.8 in February.
A reading greater than 50 signals expansion. The  median  forecast
of 48 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 56.5.  Manufacturing, which makes up about 12 percent of the
economy, may stabilize as some businesses wait for more evidence
that sales will hold up in the face of across-the-board cuts in
 government spending . At the same time, rising consumer purchases
led by automobile and home sales will help prevent a decline in
investment and inventory rebuilding.  “We could get some short-term weakness,” Josh Dennerlein,
an economist at Bank of America Corp. in  New York , said before
the report. “Some sectors like defense are really going to get
beat up” due to the sequestration. Still, “the longer term
outlook is much more positive.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from 54 to 57.9.
This month’s 4.4-point drop was the biggest since May 2011.  Other reports today showed the economy grew at a faster
pace than previously estimated in the fourth quarter and the
number of claims for jobless benefits rose more than forecast
last week.  Near Record  Stocks were little changed as the  Standard & Poor’s  500
index approached a record. The  S&P 500  climbed less than 0.1
percent to 1,563.57 at 9:59 a.m. in New York.  The Chicago employment measure declined to 55.1 from 55.7
in the prior month, today’s report showed.  The production gauge dropped to 51.8, the weakest reading
since September 2009, from 60.2, and the index of new orders
fell to 53 from 60.2.  The measure of backlogs slumped to 45 from 50.9. The gauge
of inventories decreased to 41, the lowest since December 2009,
from 50.1.  Factories are getting help from demand for autos. Cars and
light trucks sold at a  15.3 million  annual rate in February
after a 15.2 million pace the prior month, Ward’s Automotive
Group data showed.  Companies projecting a better outlook include  Texas
Instruments Inc. (TXN)  The largest maker of analog chips raised the
lower end of its forecasts for first-quarter sales and profit as
customers lift orders.  Demand ‘Stronger’  “In general, the stronger demand environment has
continued,”  Ron Slaymaker , vice president of the Dallas-based
company, said on a March 7 conference call with analysts.
“Quarter-to-date orders have been growing strongly.”  Economists watch the Chicago index and other regional
manufacturing reports for an early reading on the national
outlook. The Chicago group says its membership includes both
manufacturers and service providers, making the gauge a measure
of total growth. Its members have operations across the U.S. and
abroad.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s so-called Empire
State measure showed manufacturing in the region expanded in
March for a second month, and the Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia’s  index  also showed growth at factories.  The ISM’s monthly national factory index in March probably
held close to the highest level in almost two years, according
to the median forecast of economists surveyed ahead of the
Tempe, Arizona-based group’s figures due on April 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  