-- Cameron Moves Minister Hostile to Coalition Partners
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-03-28T12:41:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/cameron-names-fallon-to-replace-hayes-as-junior-energy-minister.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
moved Energy Minister John Hayes, an open critic of the
environmental policy of their Liberal Democrat coalition
partners, to a new post working with the premier.  Hayes will be replaced at the Department for Energy and
Climate Change by a fellow Conservative, Michael Fallon, who
also remains a Business Department minister. Fallon, who has a
business background, has been working closely with Liberal
Democrat Business Secretary Vince Cable.  “Delighted John Hayes joining me as a senior parliamentary
adviser -- and Michael Fallon adding a key energy role to his
brief,” Cameron said in a posting on his  Twitter feed  today.
Hayes will attend twice-daily strategy-team meetings and has
also been appointed a privy councilor, a position awarded to
elder statesmen. His new title indicates Cameron may be looking
to him to liaise with rebellious rank-and-file Tory lawmakers.  Hayes’s relationship with his Liberal Democrat boss at
Energy,  Ed Davey , was strained. In October, Hayes said in an
interview that the government should give more weight to
aesthetics and take more account of local people’s opinions when
deciding whether to approve wind farms. “Enough is enough,” he
was cited as saying by the  Daily Telegraph newspaper . Davey
promotes wind power as “one of the cheapest renewables” with
“an important role to play” in U.K.  energy policy .  The  Daily Mail newspaper reported  that when Cameron
appointed Hayes to the energy portfolio last year he’d urged him
to “deliver a win for our people” on wind power, underlining
Tory skepticism about Davey’s plans.  Coalition Tensions  Tensions between the coalition partners have continued in
recent weeks, with the  Liberal Democrats  initially siding with
the opposition  Labour Party  against Cameron over a new system of
press regulation before agreement on a cross-party compromise.
The Tories slumped to third place in a House of Commons special
election won by the Liberal Democrats a month ago, and the
parties are starting to position themselves for the next general
election in 2015.  “Whereas  John Hayes ’ ‘say it as you see it’ approach was
useful a year ago, nowadays Cameron needs to be more careful in
his relationship with the  Lib Dems  as the coalition gets more
fragile in the run-up to the election,” Tim Bale, professor of
politics at Queen Mary University,  London , said in a phone
interview. “While a Tory hawk, Fallon is an emollient hawk.”  Cameron is also having to deal with dissent within his own
party as well as the splits with his coalition partner. Rank-
and-file Tory lawmakers have staged rebellions in the House of
Commons against the premier’s plans to legalize gay marriage and
to demand looser links with the European Union  Hinkley Point  The move comes at a critical time for the Energy Bill,
currently passing through Parliament. Hayes is being moved away
from the energy brief less than eight months after replacing
 Charles Hendry .  The outgoing energy minister was also involved in
negotiations on the construction of the first new nuclear
reactor for 25 years at Hinkley Point in western  England  with
Electricite de France SA. Fallon’s experience will give a
greater business focus to energy policy, a spokeswoman for
Cameron said.  The draft law aims to stimulate the 110 billion pounds
($166 billion) of spending that the government says is needed to
replace aging power stations and upgrade the electricity grid by
2020. It includes measures to guarantee power prices for
renewable generators and nuclear plants through so-called
contracts-for-difference and set up a capacity market to pay
producers for back-up supplies when wind, solar and marine power
fall short.  “Disappointed to see energy minister move so close to
Energy Bill report stage, but  Michael Fallon  very capable
minister,” Tory lawmaker Dan Byles said on his Twitter feed.
“Energy in good hands.”  Labour’s business spokesman, Chuka Umunna, took to Twitter
to condemn the move. “Looking like the Business & Enterprise
ministerial post has been downgraded and spread between two
depts.,” he said.  -- With assistance from Alex Morales in London. Editors: Eddie
Buckle, Andrew Atkinson  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  