-- Canada Jan. Gross Domestic Product Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2013-03-28T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/canada-jan-gross-domestic-product-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Jan. GDP report released by  Statistics Canada .  Real gross domestic product rose 0.2% in January, after a
0.2% decrease in December. Manufacturing was the largest
contributor to the January growth.  Goods production grew 0.4% in January, led by the increase
in manufacturing. Mining, quarrying and oil and gas extraction
also increased. In contrast, the agriculture and forestry sector
and construction declined. The output of  service industries  was
up 0.2% in January, mainly as a result of gains in wholesale
trade, arts and entertainment, and the public sector (education,
health and public administration combined). On the other hand,
the finance and insurance sector and transportation and
warehousing services were down.  Manufacturing output expands  Manufacturing output expanded 1.2% in January, following a
1.9% decline in December. Growth in durable goods production
(+1.7%) in January was broadly based, with notable gains in
fabricated metal products and wood products manufacturing.
Conversely, transportation equipment manufacturing decreased.
Non-durable goods production was up 0.5% in January. Growth in
beverage and tobacco products, plastics and rubber products, as
well as printing and related support activities outweighed
declines recorded by manufacturers of chemical and of petroleum
and coal products.  Mining, quarrying and oil and gas extraction increases  Mining, quarrying and oil and gas extraction increased 0.2%
in January, up for a fourth consecutive month.  Mining excluding oil and gas extraction was up 0.8%. An
increase in metallic mineral and coal production outweighed a
decline in non-metallic mineral mining (which includes potash
mining).  Support activities for mining and oil and gas extraction
rose 3.6% on the strength of both drilling and rigging services.  Oil and gas extraction declined 0.5%, with declines in
conventional oil and natural gas production.  Wholesale and retail trade rise  Wholesale trade rose 0.7% in January, after a 0.7% decline
in December. Increases in the wholesaling of personal and
household goods and of machinery, equipment and supplies led the
January gain. Wholesaling of motor vehicles and parts, however,
declined.  Retail trade edged up 0.1% in January, following a 1.4%
decline in December. Clothing and clothing accessories stores,
furniture and home furnishing stores, and motor vehicles and
parts dealers recorded increases in January. Conversely,
retailing activity at food and beverage stores decreased.  Construction edges down  Construction edged down 0.1% in January. A decline in
residential building construction outweighed increases in non-
residential building, engineering and repair construction.  After three consecutive monthly declines, the output of
real estate agents and brokers increased 0.4% in January, as
activity in the home resale market was up.  Other industries  The arts and entertainment sector increased 4.1% in January,
mainly because of the end of the labour dispute in professional
hockey.  The public sector (education, health and public
administration combined) edged up 0.1%.  Note to readers  The monthly gross domestic product (GDP) by industry data
at basic prices are chained volume estimates with 2007 as the
reference year. This means that the data for each industry and
each aggregate are obtained from a chained volume index
multiplied by the industry’s value added in 2007. The monthly
data are benchmarked to annually chained Fisher volume indexes
of GDP obtained from the constant-price input-output tables up
to the latest input-output tables year (2009).  For the period starting with January 2010, the data are
derived by chaining a fixed-weight Laspeyres volume index to the
prior period. The fixed weights are 2009 industry prices.  This approach makes the monthly GDP by industry data more
comparable with the expenditure-based GDP data, chained
quarterly.  All data in this release are seasonally adjusted. For more
information on seasonal adjustment, see Seasonal adjustment and
identifying economic trends
( http://www5.statcan.gc.ca/bsolc/olc-cel/colc-cel?catno=11-010 -
X201000311141&amp;lang=fra) .  For more information about monthly national GDP by industry,
see the National economic accounts
( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/nea-cen/index-eng.htm ) module on our
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  