-- Carbon in Worst Quarter Since 2011 Set for Rescue Vote
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-03-28T17:21:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/carbon-in-worst-quarter-since-2011-set-for-rescue-vote.html
Europe ’s emissions market is likely
to be left all but broken should the region’s parliament fail to
agree next month on combating the surplus of carbon permits,
after the biggest quarterly slide in prices since 2011.  Allowances, which have plunged 28 percent this year to 4.81
euros ($6.20) a metric ton, will average 5 euros in 2013,
according to the median forecast of five analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg this week. Prices will probably drop below 2 euros if
the European Union doesn’t enact a November plan to delay the
sale of some emission rights, according to UBS AG.  The euro area’s second recession since 2008 has cut demand
for permits, exacerbating a glut that drove prices in the
world’s biggest greenhouse-gas market to a record low in
January. Europe’s parliament votes April 16 on the first part of
plan by the region’s regulator to support prices by withholding
some allowances over the next three years and releasing, or
backloading, them into the market at the end of the decade.  “If the plan fails to clear the vote, backloading’s
over,” said Konrad Hanschmidt, an analyst for Bloomberg New
Energy Finance in  London  who correctly predicted in November
carbon would fall to record lows in January. Rejection of the
proposal will weigh on prices and damage the market as “some
brokers might find it difficult to continue,” he said.  Record Low  The last time permits retreated so much in any quarter was
in the three months through December 2011, when they lost 32
percent on London’s ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Carbon for delivery in December slumped to an unprecedented
2.81 euros on Jan. 24 after the parliament’s industry committee
recommended rejecting the backloading proposal. It was as high
as 9.47 euros in November, when the European Commission unveiled
its plan to fix the glut.  Offset credits in the United Nation’s Clean Development
Mechanism have fallen even more. They were at 33 euro cents in
London today, down 93 percent from a year ago. EU emitters can
use UN credits to offset some of their emissions.  The EU’s 54 billion-euro cap-and-trade system, introduced
in 2005 to help meet greenhouse gas-reduction targets under the
1997  Kyoto Protocol , imposes limits on about 12,000 power plants
and factories. The program allocates permits to companies that
must surrender enough allowances to cover their discharges of
carbon dioxide or pay fines.  The commission’s plan includes delaying the sale of
allowances covering 900 million tons, or 45 percent of a year’s
supply. The goal is to reduce a glut that may exceed 1.5 billion
permits by the end of 2013,  Jos Delbeke , the commission’s
director general for climate, said in February. Unless the
proposal gets the consent of the parliament at next month’s
vote, it will lapse.  Facing Opposition  The parliament upheld in a March 14 vote a recommendation
to include a reference to carbon-market intervention in a non-
binding report by the assembly on EU energy policy. The ballot
wasn’t about climate policy.  The  backloading proposal  still faces opposition from the
European  People’s Party , the biggest of seven groups in the
assembly, because it undermines predictability for investors and
leads to higher energy prices, the group said Feb 25.  “It’s time the EU gave a clear, unequivocal signal to the
market that they’re prepared to fix the oversupply after months
of prevarication,” Mark Meyrick, a carbon trader at Eneco
Energy Trade BV, said by phone from Amsterdam. “A 4-euro price
isn’t going to change anyone’s emitting behavior.”  Price Collapse  Permit prices may collapse should lawmakers fail to agree
on backloading, said Per Lekander, an analyst at UBS in Paris
who forecast in November 2011, when prices were above 9 euros,
that carbon would drop to as low as 3 euros within two years.  Average 2013 price forecasts in the Bloomberg survey,
assuming parliament backs the proposal, ranged from New Energy
Finance’s 4.1 euros to Societe Generale SA’s 6.5 euros. All
analysts in the poll predicted the EU will probably agree to
backloading.  If backed by the parliament next month, the draft law
change will be negotiated between assembly representatives and
national governments, who need to sign off on the proposal. Once
adopted, it will pave the way for  member states  to vote on a
regulation that sets out the details of backloading.  Rescue Backed  EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  is confident the
proposal will be enacted as policy makers realize that doing
nothing may lead to the demise of Europe’s carbon trading
program, she said in an interview in Brussels yesterday.  The assembly’s environment committee, which leads the work
on the commission’s proposal in the Parliament, backed the
carbon market rescue plan in a non-binding ballot in February by
35 votes to 28, with two abstentions.  If absentees in the March 14 ballot toe the party line next
month, the backloading proposal will probably fail, according to
Jens Teresniak, an energy economist at Stadtwerke Leipzig GmbH,
a utility in Leipzig,  Germany . The April 16 result would be 359
against backloading, 355 in favor and 38 abstentions, he said
March 20 by phone.  “We will see a price lift after a positive backloading
vote, but it’s a close call” Nick Eagle, a carbon trader at
Clean Energy Trading Ltd. in London, said yesterday by e-mail.
“A definite decision not to support it will damage the
market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  