-- Cardinal McCarrick Sees Church Press on Immigration (Transcript)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   M i c h a e l   S h e p a r d
-- 2013-03-28T12:25:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/cardinal-mccarrick-sees-church-press-on-immigration-transcript-.html
Cardinal Theodore McCarrick, the
archbishop emeritus of Washington, said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,”
airing this weekend, that he expects Roman Catholic Church
leaders to intensify efforts on behalf of a new immigration law
and gun-control measures.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT, HOST, BLOOMBERG NEWS: We begin the show with
Cardinal Theodore McCarrick, the archbishop emeritus of
Washington. Your eminence, thank you so much for being with us.  CARDINAL MCCARRICK, ARCHBISHOP EMERITUS OF WASHINGTON:
Thank you, Al. It’s great to be with you.  HUNT: It is Holy Week. What’s the state of religion and
especially the Catholic church in America today?  MCCARRICK: Well, it could be better. I think we still, when
you compare it with the rest of the world, we still have most of
our people who believe in God, most people who -- who profess a
religion. Although you have to confess, a lot of people who
belong to organized religions are now sort of on their own. It
doesn’t mean they don’t believe in God. I think they still do,
but they -- they are sort of freelancing now, and I think they
go from one place to another. We’d rather that they were in a
family in the community because there’s more -- there’s more
strength. There’s more support in a community like the church,
or any church. But as long as they believe in God, I think
that’s the anchor that’s going to hang them together.  HUNT: You have just come back recently from Rome
celebrating a new pope, a Jesuit from Latin America. What are
likely to be the most significant differences between Pope Francis and Pope Benedict?  MCCARRICK: Well, I think that’s -- it’s an interesting
question because in some ways, they’re very similar. They are --
they are both faithful to the -- to the theology. They’re both
good theologians. They’re both men who have -- who have served
the church for many, many years, but they have different
personalities, just as Benedict was different from John Paul --  HUNT: Different emphasis?  MCCARRICK: There should be -- there probably will be a
different emphasis just because of their training.  HUNT: And what will the new emphasis be?  MCCARRICK: I think Pope -- Pope Francis will be very
interested in the poor. That will be something that will be
right on the top of his agenda. And he’s really put it there.
He’ll also be very concerned about the -- about the climate,
about ecology, about what we’re doing to nature, what we’re
doing to the world. I think those are the two reasons -- two of
the reasons that he chose Francis, because Francis was so much
in love with the poor.  HUNT: Let me get to some of those in a minute. But first
let me ask you this. Does the new pope have the will and the
mandate to shake up what is a discredited bureaucracy right now,
including the -- the Vatican?  MCCARRICK: I think he does. I think he has the will to --
to make it work better, the will to make it more in the service
of people. And I think he has the ability to do that. They tell
me, I’m not a scholar of the church in Argentina, but they tell
me that he did that in Argentina. So he has the experience and
the -- and the strength, the guts to do what he thinks God wants
him to do.  HUNT: Your eminence, you and others have said don’t look
for any major changes in doctrine, including women priests. You
have been a champion of a larger role for women in the church.
And I know you know there are some serious tensions between some
nuns and some of the church hierarchy. What should the bishops
of church do to better recognize and reward the role of so many
of these sisters?  MCCARRICK: First, talk with each other. That’s the most
important thing. And sometimes it’s hard because some of the
bishops are tough. Some of the sisters are tough. And when you
have the same -- you have a bishop who tends to be very, very
strong in his beliefs, and you have sisters and they have
different things, then there are problems. But no, I think the
beginning and the end is getting together, getting to understand
each other.  We -- we have this -- this whole rule of inter-religious
dialogue, and I think it’s for any dialogue. First of all,
you’ve got to talk -- first of all, you end up talking with each
other, but not necessarily to each other. Second, you talk to.
And all those things, that’s what they have to get to.  HUNT: Let me go back to the poor. As you noted, Pope
Francis is passionately committed to the poor. In America, the
gap between the rich and poor and it’s getting bigger. Is it a
moral responsibility for Catholic politicians and others to
support measures to reduce income inequality, or is that a
secular matter?  MCCARRICK: I don’t think it’s a secular matter at all. I
think the Lord -- the Lord tells us all in whatever profession
we’re in, whatever way of life we’re in, to take care of the
poor. Now I have to do it in one way. You have to do it in one
way. A politician has to do it in another way. A businessman has
to do it another way. A judge, a police officer, a doctor. We
all -- wherever we come from, that is one of the things that God
wants us to do, take care of the poor.  HUNT: The majority of Catholics according to polls now
favor same-sex marriage. The bishops filed a brief this week
opposing both the California and -- and any national same-sex
marriage, supporting a ban on it. I guess my question to you is
if two gays or two lesbians came to you for counsel, what would
you tell them?  MCCARRICK: Well, I would tell them to try to be as good as
they can, to try to be as -- as faithful as they can. They can
be good friends. The difficulty is we believe that the sacrament
of marriage is made for a man and a woman.  HUNT: Do you have any problems with civil unions?  MCCARRICK: Well, I prefer -- no. I have no problem if this
is the situation that -- I certainly would prefer that to -- to
a -- what I would call a marriage in quotes.  HUNT: Your eminence, would -- do you agree that -- that
divorce or children born out of wedlock is a bigger threat to
society and marriage than same-sex marriage?  MCCARRICK: It probably is now. It probably is now because
it’s so prevalent in our society, whereas same-sex marriage is
not at this point prevalent in our society, and probably won’t
be because the majority of our people are -- do not have that --
have that -- that orientation. But for those who are -- who do
get married and whose marriages is broken, the children find
themselves out on a limb. That’s -- that is a serious problem in
our society.  HUNT: Let me turn to immigration. I know that’s an issue
that you have been involved with and care deeply about. Should
the church, as is the case with abortion, have priests get
worshippers to fill out pro-reform postcards, send them to
politicians, actively lobby this issue as passionately as they
do some other issues?  MCCARRICK: Well, I think they should actively lobby this
issue. I think it’s an important issue. But I think there’s
always -- you should never force your people to do anything. You
should make it possible for them to see this is the thing to do.
You can -- you can be very -- very proactive in your own life
and very convincing in what you believe. And if they do believe
and please God, all the ministers of religion in the United
States believe you got to take care of these people who are
here. Maybe 1.0000 percent of them are not good people. But so
many -- these are family people. They came to get a better life
for their children, for themselves. They came to -- they came to
make a contribution to American society. All this is part of --  HUNT: The bishops have endorsed immigration reform. As I
said, I know it’s an issue you care very deeply about. Should
they be more active, I guess is what I’m asking. They are active
in issues like abortion and issues like contraception. Should
they really, really go all out?  MCCARRICK: I’m -- I’m hoping that when -- when we get a
bill, you’ll see how active they’ll be.  HUNT: OK. All right. I will watch. Let me turn to another
tough issue: guns. The bishops again took a stand about violence
and there are too many guns in society. There’s a fellow who I
don’t know named John Gehring, director of a liberal Catholic
advocacy group, who said, “Catholic lawmakers who call
themselves pro-life and are cozy with the National Rifle
Association should not be getting a free pass from the church.”
Is he right, and are they getting a free pass?  MCCARRICK: Well, I’m not sure they are getting a free pass.
I think that the church has been -- has made its point. I think
we obviously are against these heavy-duty automatic weapons.
Their -- their place is in war, not in -- not in sports and
neither for self-defense. It would seem to be overkill to use
these kind of weapons. So I think that maybe they -- let’s say
this. When -- when it gets to the -- to the flesh point -- flash
point, I think we will find that the church is speaking out with
so many other churches in the United States to say that guns are
for military action, guns are for self-protection, but you don’t
need an arsenal to protect your family.  HUNT: Your eminence, it is such an honor to have you on,
particularly Easter week. Thank you so much, and we look forward
to visiting with you again soon.  MCCARRICK: Thanks, Al. It’s good to be with you. Happy
Easter to you.  HUNT: Happy Easter to you. Thank you, sir.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP. 