-- China Repo Rate Jumps Most in a Week on Quarter-End Cash Demand
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-03-28T02:56:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/china-repo-rate-jumps-most-in-a-week-on-quarter-end-cash-demand.html
China’s money-market rate rose the
most in a week as banks retain funds to prepare for cash-reserve
requirements at the end of the quarter.  The People’s Bank of China will conduct 30 billion  yuan 
($4.8 billion) of 28-day  repurchase agreements  today, according
to a trader at a primary dealer required to bid at the auctions.
The monetary authority drained a net 57 billion yuan from the
financial system this week through repurchase operations, taking
total withdrawals to more than 1 trillion yuan in the past six
weeks, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Any upward spike should be temporary” in relation to
seasonal demand for banks’ cash-reserve requirements, said Becky Liu, a China rates strategist in Hong Kong at Standard Chartered
Plc. “I don’t really see liquidity being tightened.”  The  seven-day repurchase rate , which measures funding
availability in the  interbank market , climbed 29 basis points to
3.15 percent at 10:38 a.m. in  Shanghai , according to a weighted
average compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center.  Yao Jingyuan, a researcher at the Counselors’ Office of the
State Council, said China faces relatively large downward
economic pressure in the middle of this year, Shanghai
Securities News reported today.  The one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, fell one basis
point to 3.27 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield on the 3.52 percent government bonds due February
2023 declined two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to
3.54 percent, according to the Interbank Funding Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  