-- China Naming Harvard-Educated Liu to NDRC May Hail Policy Shift
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-28T04:59:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/china-naming-harvard-educated-liu-to-ndrc-may-hail-policy-shift.html
Liu He was appointed as a vice
chairman of China’s top economic-planning agency, a sign that
President  Xi Jinping ’s government may be preparing to quicken
market-driven policy changes to sustain growth.  The  National Development and Reform Commission’s  website
today showed Liu, previously Communist Party secretary of the
State Council’s Development Research Center, as one of 11
deputies. He was also promoted this month to director of the
Office of the Central Leading Group on Financial and Economic
Affairs from deputy director, his  online biography  shows.  Liu was a “major collaborator” in a World Bank report
published last year that advocates accelerating market-driven
change, and is a proponent of financial liberalization,
according to Cheng Li, a China scholar at Washington’s  Brookings
Institution . Taking the NDRC post may indicate Liu will play a
key role in government efforts to restructure the economy,
according to BNP Paribas SA.  “This is an extraordinary appointment for China,” said
 Stephen Roach , a senior fellow at  Yale University  and former
non-executive chairman for Morgan Stanley in Asia. “Liu He is
on the leading edge in articulating China’s reform imperatives -
- especially the long-overdue structural transformation of the
growth model toward more of a consumer-led economy.”  ‘Key Person’  Liu is a 61-year-old graduate of  Harvard University’s
Kennedy School of Government  who played a pivotal role in
coordinating U.S.-China relations during the global financial
crisis. He was named to the party’s 205-member  Central Committee 
in November, suggesting he would have a senior position in the
new government that took office this month.  “Liu He is the key person in determining what kind of
economic-policy package ultimately makes it to Xi Jinping’s
desk,” Barry Naughton, Chinese economy professor at the
University of California at  San Diego , said in November.  Starting in 2003 Liu was deputy director of the party’s
financial and economic affairs group office. Participants
included former Premier  Wen Jiabao , former Vice Premier  Wang
Qishan  and People’s Bank of China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan,
according to China scholars and non-government websites.  “These new appointments make him a major mover and shaker
in China’s financial policies,” Li of  Brookings  said.  Liu spent much of his career in the State Planning
Commission, the agency that formerly set prices for everything
from bicycles to grain. It now writes industrial policy under a
new name, the NDRC. Liu has helped draft the five-year plans
that underpin  China’s economy .  The roles he played at the central leading group and the
Development Research Center show Liu is “reform-minded,” said
Chen Xingdong, chief China economist at BNP Paribas in Beijing.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  