-- China Banks Drop on Tighter Savings Product Rule: Shanghai Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-28T05:46:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/china-citic-industrial-bank-lead-financials-lower-in-shanghai.html
Chinese bank shares tumbled in
Shanghai and Hong Kong after the banking regulator tightened
rules on wealth-management products and the cabinet called for
new measures to deregulate interest rates.  China Citic Bank Corp. (998)  fell 6.8 percent to 4.91 yuan as of
1:21 p.m. in Shanghai after dropping by its 10 percent daily
limit, and lost 4.7 percent in Hong Kong.  China Minsheng Banking
Corp. (600016)  dropped 7.9 percent in Shanghai and Huaxia Bank Co., which
faced customer protests in December, plunged by as much as 10
percent.  The regulator told banks to limit investments of client
funds in credit assets that aren’t publicly traded, and to
isolate the risks from their operations. Wealth management
products increased 56 percent to 7.1 trillion yuan ($1.1
trillion) last year, equivalent to 7.6 percent of total
deposits, according to Standard & Poor’s, prompting warnings
from regulators and ratings firms that credit risks are rising.  “This is so far the harshest and most concrete tightening
measures regarding WMPs,” Yao Wei, Hong Kong-based  China 
economist at Societe Generale SA, said in a note. “However, the
immediate impact should be manageable to banks, as the banking
regulator has been communicating with the major banks about
(potential) rule changes for some time.”  Customer Retention  Chinese banks rely on wealth management products, which pay
higher rates than regulated deposits, to retain clients who are
diverting savings to other investments. The sales are
transforming the stable and cheap deposit base that has
supported lenders into one that is “more mobile, expensive and
short-term,” creating repayment risk, Fitch Ratings warned
earlier.  “The majority of wealth management products that banks
offer are merely deposits in disguise,” S&P said in a report
today. “Shadow banking could have significant and far-reaching
implications for the sector’s financial soundness in the next
three to five years.”  The average yield of wealth management products was 4.11
percent in 2012, according to the banking regulator. That
compares with the benchmark one-year deposit rate of 3 percent.  About 1.5 trillion  yuan  of such products are on banks’
balance sheets, while the remaining 5.6 trillion yuan are off-
balance sheet, S&P said, adding that almost 70 percent of all
proceeds are invested in loans, corporate bonds and other
credit-type assets.  Bypassing Restrictions  Investments in “non-standard” credit assets, used by some
banks to bypass loan restrictions and credit risks, can’t exceed
35 percent of all funds raised from the sale of wealth
management products, or 4 percent of the lender’s total assets
at the end of the previous year, the China Banking Regulatory
Commission said yesterday.  The latest rule may reduce total financing in China’s
economy by 1 trillion yuan, Citic Securities Co. estimated in a
note today. About 50 percent of the outstanding amount of wealth
products are invested in non-standard credit assets, including
trust loans, entrusted credits and acceptance bills, the
brokerage said, exceeding the 35 percent limit.  “The regulator has basically set the boundary on how banks
should operate this business,” said Huang Biao, a Shenzhen-
based analyst at Great Wall Securities Co. “The wealth
management business will still grow  but we probably won’t see
the kind of explosive growth seen last year.”  Smaller Lenders  Banks may sell such assets, bring the products onto their
balance sheets or issue more wealth products based on liquid
assets following the rule, Barclays Plc analysts led by May Yan
wrote in a note today. Smaller banks will be more affected than
their larger peers, they said.  Investors of a wealth product sold through an ex-employee
of Beijing-based Huaxia protested in December after losing money
when the issuer defaulted on repayment. These investors later
had their principal repaid in full after a guarantee firm bought
the asset, Securities Times reported in January.  China’s banking regulator has been warning lenders since
2011 about the risks of offering the high-yield savings vehicles
and banned them from selling products with maturities of less
than one month. The regulator also prohibited banks from paying
investors the expected rate of return by using profits earned
from other businesses.  Meanwhile, the State Council said yesterday it will take
steps this year to loosen state control over interest rates and
the yuan as new Premier Li Keqiang seeks to open up the economy
to sustain growth.  The central bank in June allowed lenders to widen the
discount on the official lending rate to 20 percent and
broadened the limit to 30 percent a month later, picking up the
pace of interest-rate deregulation. Banks are offering savers a
premium of as much as 10 percent over the benchmark deposit rate
as they seek to attract more funds.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in  Shanghai  at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net ;
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  