-- China Must Meet Threats at Sea in Power Push, Editorial Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-28T07:43:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/china-must-better-meet-sea-threats-in-power-push-editorial-says.html
China  needs to get better at
responding to threats and provocations at sea as it becomes a
stronger coastal power, a maritime surveillance official wrote
in an commentary published today.  China is acting quickly on calls made during the Communist
Party’s congress in November to exert more maritime power, said
the op-ed, published on the website of the state-owned Global
Times newspaper. Yesterday, naval vessels reached a shoal at the
southern edge of the country’s claimed territory and pledged to
defend Chinese sovereignty.  Today’s essay follows broader Chinese moves to assert its
claims more forcefully in the South and East China Seas, where
it’s engaged in disputes with countries including  Vietnam ,
 Malaysia  and  Japan . China has sent air and sea patrols and
conducted military exercises across those areas in recent months
as it presses its claims.  “The 18th Party Congress report clearly pointed out the
strategic intention and task of ’building a strong maritime
country,’ making a strong call for the Chinese people’s control
of the ocean,” the commentary said. The author was identified
as China Marine Surveillance agency official Gao Zhengqi.  Four ships from the navy’s Nanhai Fleet arrived yesterday
at Zengmu Reef, the southernmost reach of China’s national
territory, the official Xinhua News Agency reported. Troops on
the ships took an oath saying they’re “determined to safeguard
the country’s sovereignty with their services on the  South China
Sea ,” Xinhua reported.  James Shoal  Zengmu Reef, also known as James Shoal, is located about
110 kilometers (68 miles) from the coast of Malaysia, which also
claims it. The shoal is about 1,800 kilometers from the Chinese
mainland.  “China has made important contributions to maintaining
peace and security in the South China Sea,” Foreign Ministry
spokesman Hong Lei said at a briefing today. “The patrolling is
China’s exercising its sovereignty and inherent rights.”  Yesterday’s visit followed a week of drills that included
simulated air and submarine attacks as well as “confrontation
maneuvers,” Xinhua reported the day before.  Chinese marine surveillance ships have conducted patrols in
waters surrounding islands in the  East China Sea  also claimed by
Japan. On March 26, China defended its actions after one of its
ships fired on a Vietnamese fishing vessel in the South China
Sea. Vietnam protested the action, while Hong said earlier this
week Vietnam should better educate its fisherman to “stop such
illegal activities.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  