-- China Moves to Loosen Residence Limits in Li Urbanization Drive
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-28T10:20:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/china-moves-to-loosen-residence-limits-in-li-urbanization-drive.html
A northern Chinese province will
allow some people who live in the countryside to get social
benefits in the capital, easing residency limits that may hamper
a government push for urbanization to drive  economic growth .  People in Ningxia province who live in rural areas under
the jurisdiction of Yinchuan, the capital, will now be allowed
to switch their residency to the city itself, the Xinhua News
Agency said today. The rules took effect March 27, it said.  The changes mark a loosening of  China ’s residence-permit,
or “hukou” system, which stipulates that people can only get
most health and welfare benefits in the place where they were
registered, usually at birth. The system can prevent China’s
tens of millions of migrants from putting down roots in the
cities where they work because they can’t get government help or
send their children to school for free.  Premier  Li Keqiang , appointed earlier this month, has
championed urbanization as a “huge engine” for growth as
leaders seek to shift the world’s second-largest economy toward
a model that relies more on consumption than on exports. Last
year, growth slowed to 7.8 percent, a 13-year low.  “The new strategy will be developing the smaller cities in
central and western China,” said  Zhu Haibin , chief China
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  Hong Kong . “Hukou reform
is extremely difficult in the big cities -- in the tier-three,
tier-four cities it’s easier to push forward.”  The hukou registration program was imposed under leader  Mao
Zedong  in 1958 to bind farmers to their land. China’s biggest
cities including Shanghai, Beijing and Chongqing have yearly
quotas on the number of people allowed to become residents.  The rule changes in Ningxia aren’t a total abandonment of
the registration system: People with residency in Yinchuan, a
city of 2 million people, won’t be allowed to register to live
in rural areas, Xinhua said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  