-- Christie Re-Election Path Goes Through New Jersey Cities
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-03-28T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/christie-re-election-path-goes-through-new-jersey-cities.html
Cities have become a central front
in Governor  Chris Christie ’s drive to win a second term in  New
Jersey , where shopping malls and leafy subdivisions have been
the seat of political power for 50 years.  Christie, the first Republican elected governor of the
Garden State since 1997, in the past month has gone to Paterson,
 Jersey City  and  Atlantic City , places where he got 11 percent or
less of the 2009 vote. State Senator Barbara Buono, a suburban
Democrat, is backed by Newark’s mayor and four council members.  With his approval ratings at record highs, Christie, 50,
wants to become the first Republican to win more than half of
the statewide vote in a quarter-century this November. Cities,
where his party’s voters are vastly outnumbered by Democrats,
have become contested territory as the governor tries to
outflank his opponent and peel away core supporters.  “Republicans aren’t playing to win here, they’re playing
not to get crushed” in the cities, said  Jennifer Duffy , who
tracks governors’ races as senior editor at the Washington-based
Cook Political Report. “Barbara Buono has to inspire the urban
vote. And I think the jury’s out on whether she can do that.”  Buono’s support from Mayor  Cory Booker  and other leaders in
Newark, the state’s biggest city, underlines a weakness for
Christie, even as a March 26 Quinnipiac University poll showed
that 44 percent of Democrats say he deserves re-election.
Although Buono, 59, trailed Christie by 35 percentage points in
the survey, the governor is seeking to shore up his urban
support by taking the fight to the opposition’s strongholds.  ‘Aggressive’ Campaign  “I’m going to try and campaign everywhere and I’m going to
try and pick up every vote we can pick up and I’m going to be
very aggressive,” Christie said last week in  Stone Harbor .  Paterson bus driver James Ramsey, 59, who said education is
a top issue for him, shows how the governor’s strategy may be
working among lifelong urban Democrats. Although Ramsey said he
didn’t vote for Christie in 2009, the governor’s handling of
hurricane recovery efforts since October has changed his view.  “It’s historic for a Republican governor to come into this
city,” Ramsey said in an interview in Paterson during a
Christie visit. “As a Democrat, I believe now that he’s been so
impressive over the past four years that he has won me over.”  In the Quinnipiac poll, Christie’s lead over Buono narrowed
to 12 percentage points among urban voters. Christie drew his
strongest support along the Atlantic shore, hard-hit by
 Hurricane Sandy  in October, and from northwestern areas.  Buono’s Strategy  Coming from the New Brunswick suburb of Metuchen, Buono has
set her sights on making the election a closer contest by
boosting her urban support while retaining her suburbanite base.  “The cities, as large population centers and economic
drivers, are certainly someplace where we’re going to be
investing enormous time and resources,” said Jonathan DuCote,
Buono’s campaign manager.  Booker, a popular 43-year-old Democrat who stepped back
from challenging Christie and may run for  U.S. Senate  next year,
is at the center of the urban battle. In 2010, he partnered with
Christie when Facebook Inc. co-founder  Mark Zuckerberg  announced
he’d donate $100 million to Newark’s struggling, state-run
schools. The two again teamed up to modify teacher tenure rules
and expand charter schools in the city.  Speaking to reporters last week with Buono in a Newark
diner, Booker called Christie a “friend.” Yet the mayor was
among the first to officially endorse Buono and said he agrees
with her on the “totality of the issues.”  Turnout Key  Booker said he sees an effort to boost turnout taking shape
in his city and other urban centers. Doing so will be central to
his party’s strategy to win back the governor’s office, he told
reporters in Newark’s Andros Diner.  “By October, you’ll see a real horse race,” he said.  Yet the poll this week from Hamden, Connecticut-based
Quinnipiac showed that 79 percent of the 1,129 registered voters
surveyed by telephone March 19-24 didn’t know enough about Buono
to form an opinion. The results had a margin of error of plus or
minus 2.9 percentage points.  Buono has touted her life story during the campaign: Born
in  Newark  to Italian-American immigrants, her father died when
she was 19. She combined safety-net programs and hard work to
make her way through college and law school, then fashioned a
political career. She has said Christie’s record on issues such
as women’s health care as well as state funding for education
and social services is out of step with city voters.  ‘Wrong’ Policies  “The governor has had the wrong policy choices, wrong
priorities and has really done nothing for the cities,” Buono
said during her appearance in Newark with Booker.  “It’s not about what’s crucial to win the election,” she
said. “It’s about not having voters disenfranchised.” Urban
voters, she said, “feel this governor has ignored them and his
policies have hurt them.”  Both sides have two elections in mind as they plot a
strategy to win votes in the cities: Christie’s 2009 ouster of
incumbent Democrat  Jon Corzine , aided by Democratic power
brokers who are mostly out of this year’s fight, and the 2012
presidential rout.  Barack Obama , a Democrat, beat Republican
 Mitt Romney  by 18 percentage points in New Jersey last year.  The state’s five most-urban counties, Hudson, Passaic,
Essex, Camden and Union, collectively account for 1.8 million
registered voters, or about a third of the 5.5 million on the
statewide rolls, according to Elections Division records. About
1.23 million people, or 14 percent, of the state’s 8.8 million
residents live in the 10 biggest urban centers, according to
U.S. Census Bureau data.  School Takeovers  This week, Christie announced a state takeover of the
failing school district in Camden, an impoverished and crime-
ridden municipality across the  Delaware River  from Philadelphia.
He has also worked to expand urban  charter schools . The governor
recently held his 102nd town-hall meeting in Paterson, a city of
about 146,400 in northern New Jersey where, as in Newark and
Jersey City, the state also runs the public schools.  Christie told about 750 people at Paterson’s St. Luke’s
Baptist Church that he traveled there because “it’s hard to
hate up close.” Corzine beat him 8-to-1 in the city in 2009,
even as Christie won, 48.5 percent to 44.9 percent. As governor,
Christie said he needs to represent every part of the state. As
a candidate, he said he’ll take any vote he can get.  “I’m going to try and improve everywhere over last time,”
Christie said in Stone Harbor. In 2009, Corzine drubbed him by
more than 10-to-1 in Newark, with just 30 percent of voters
casting ballots, according to state data. Three years later, 57
percent went to the polls there as Obama beat Romney by 20-to-1.  “If she can get 60 percent turnout in the cities, she’s in
business,” said Phil Thigpen, 87, chairman of the Essex County
Democratic Committee. The key for Buono will be finding strong
advisers who can help her navigate urban politics, said Thigpen,
a Newark native. He said she has “gotten off to a good start.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  