-- Chrysler’s Ram Considers More Sports Team Edition Trucks
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-03-28T14:42:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/chrysler-s-ram-considers-more-sports-team-edition-trucks.html
Chrysler Group LLC is considering
expanding its successful Ram truck promotional tie-in with
Detroit’s professional hockey team to other sports and cities,
Fred Diaz, head of the Ram truck brand, said.  Ram sold about 3,000 of the Red Wings edition of the Ram
1500, which went on sale in  November 2011 , triple what the
company expected, Diaz said in an interview yesterday at the  New
York auto show .  “It’s actually an experiment that we did with Detroit and
it worked out so incredibly well, we’re looking at the
possibility of doing other things with other sports,” Diaz
said. “You have to have a rabid fan base. Then you have to get
the rights. We’ve got our feelers out to see what could work.”  U.S. pickup sales are dominated by Chrysler,  General Motors
Co. (GM)  and Ford Motor Co. and the trucks generate much of their
profit. U.S. pickup sales will top 1.7 million this year, up
more than 50 percent from 2009’s low of 1.1 million, according
to forecasts by researchers IHS Automotive and LMC Automotive.
Chrysler Chief Executive Officer Sergio Marchionne has said the
Detroit automakers will defend the market from trucks offered by
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)   Diaz said he doesn’t foresee Ram signing agreements with
entire professional sports leagues. The Red Wing 1500 pickup, a
$399 option, came in red, white or black, according to Chrysler.
Features included the team’s logo on the front-seat headrests.  “We’ll pick our spots and our moments and if we feel like
we have a good opportunity, we’ll do it,” he said.  Ram didn’t offer the Red Wings package this year because of
the labor dispute that shortened the National Hockey League
season. The company expects to offer it again next season, Diaz
said. Auburn Hills, Michigan-based Chrysler is majority owned by
Turin-based  Fiat SpA. (F)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in  New York  at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  