-- Cincinnati Parking Privatization Must Go to Vote
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-03-28T21:17:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/cincinnati-parking-privatization-must-go-to-vote.html
A Cincinnati  plan  to privatize
parking to close a municipal budget gap must be put to a public
referendum, an Ohio state court judge ruled, blocking the
initiative.  The proposal calls for the  Port of Greater Cincinnati
Development Authority  to take charge of street spaces for 30
years and those off street for 50 years, with the ability to
subcontract their management. In exchange, the authority would
pay Cincinnati $92 million now and an estimated $3 million
annually for 30 years.  Six Cincinnati residents sued, challenging a city council
decision earlier this month to confer “emergency” status on
the enabling ordinance, which the lawmakers said exempted it
from being put to a public vote.  “The city charter does not specifically exempt emergency
legislation from the powers reserved to the people,” Judge
Robert C. Winkler of the Hamilton County Court of Common Pleas
wrote in a 17-page ruling issued today.  The municipality has already filed papers signaling its
intent to appeal and requested an expedited briefing schedule,
City Solicitor John Curp said today in a telephone interview.  “We are quite pleased that the judge recognized that the
citizens of the city retain the ultimate power and authority by
retaining for themselves the right to referendum all ordinances
passed by the city council,” plaintiffs’ lawyer Curt Hartman
said in a statement e-mailed to Bloomberg News.  “The people of the city of Cincinnati will now have the
final say on the long-term leasing of the city’s parking assets
in return for a quick and temporary financial gain,” he said.  Similar disputes have arisen elsewhere in the U.S. as state
and local governments consider privatizing prisons, lotteries,
airports and roadways to raise revenue and balance budgets.  Chicago faces a lawsuit over the 99-year, $563 million
lease of four of its downtown parking garages to an entity
controlled by two  Morgan Stanley (MS)  investment vehicles.  Earlier this year, a private arbitration panel found the
third-largest U.S. city owes the leaseholder, Chicago Loop
Parking LLC, almost $58 million for permitting a competing
parking facility to be created within the area reserved to
Chicago Loop.  Cincinnati’s city council classified the ordinance as an
emergency measure needed to close a budget hole and save 344
jobs, including 269 police and fire department positions,
according to court papers filed earlier this month.  Absent the lease proceeds, Curp, the Cincinnati solicitor,
said the city will need to cut $30 million from the city’s
budget for fiscal 2014 and that layoff notices must be issued by
May 1.  Should Winkler’s ruling be upheld, the referendum would be
voted upon in November, he said.  The case is McQueen v. Dohoney, A1301595, Hamilton County,
Ohio, Court of Common Pleas (Cincinnati).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  