-- Cocoa’s Gains Seen Capped as Ghana Has to Sell; Robusta Declines
-- B y   C l a u d i a   C a r p e n t e r
-- 2013-03-28T11:52:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/cocoa-s-gains-seen-capped-as-ghana-has-to-sell-robusta-declines.html
Cocoa climbed for a third day in
London and  New York , and the gains may be capped as  Ghana  still
has to sell more beans. Robusta coffee fell for a fifth day.  Cocoa has climbed the past three days on buying by
speculators because the market is “still considered tight,”
 Kona Haque , an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in London. Cocoa
demand may be equal to or slightly above production this season,
she said.  “Every time the market tries to rally we get into Ghana
selling,” Haque said by phone today. “Speculators are pushing
the market higher.”  Cocoa for May delivery climbed 0.6 percent in New York to
$2,162 a metric ton by 7:41 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S. Prices are
down 3.3 percent in New York this year and up 1.7 percent in
London. Beans trade in pounds in London and dollars in New York.  Ghana, the second-largest producer, has capped rallies when
New York prices climbed to about $2,160 a ton, Haque said.  There is no correlation between prices and Easter, Eric Sivry, head of agriculture options brokerage at Marex Spectron
Group in  London , said on Bloomberg TV’s The Pulse today. Most of
the chocolate eaten over the weekend was produced a few months
ago, he said.  “Cocoa prices are being driven essentially by the macro
picture at the moment,” he said. “Demand in western economies
is pretty stable and it’s better in emerging economies.”  Raw sugar dropped 0.3 percent in New York and arabica
coffee gained 0.4 percent. Robusta coffee declined 0.7 percent
to $2,040 a ton. White, or refined, sugar fell 0.7 percent to
$505 a ton in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  