-- Cole Credit Shareholders Seek to Block Internal Merger
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-03-29T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/cole-credit-shareholders-seek-to-block-internal-merger.html
Shareholders of Cole Credit
Property Trust III asked a Maryland judge to block an internal
merger involving a company owned by its chairman while it weighs
a $6.7 billion buyout offer from  American Realty Capital
Properties Inc. (ARCP)   The shareholders claim that Christopher Cole, chairman of
Cole Credit, is seeking to merge, without a shareholder vote,
the nontraded real estate investment trust with Cole Holdings
Corp., the trust’s sponsor, which he fully owns. The request was
made yesterday in a filing in Maryland state court in Baltimore.  “The only winner if the merger is not voted on by
shareholders and is consummated is Christopher Cole,” John
Isbister, a lawyer for the shareholders, wrote in the filing.
“The only loser if the merger is voted on by the shareholders
and rejected is Christopher Cole.  Cole Holdings, a manager of a more than 2,000 U.S.
commercial buildings, on March 6 agreed to be acquired by Cole
Credit, which will make an initial payment of $20 million in
cash and 10.7 million shares of its stock for the company, which
manages more than $12 billion for more than 160,000 individual
investors, the firms said in a statement announcing the deal.  The combined company will be called Cole Real Estate
Investments Inc. and will seek to list its shares on the  New
York  Stock Exchange.  The deal is expected to be completed in the second quarter.  Cole Credit Property Trust III believes the investor
lawsuit is ‘‘entirely without merit’’ and it intends to defend
itself vigorously, according to an e-mailed statement.  Cole Credit, the owner of more than 900 mostly single-
tenant office, retail and industrial properties, rejected a
March 20 bid from American Realty, which offered $12 a share,
saying it undervalued the company.  American Realty  American Realty revised its bid to include the acquisition
of Cole Holdings and take into account property data suggesting
increased value for Cole Credit, the New York-based company said
March 27 in a letter to Cole Credit’s board. The new bid is
valued at about $9.7 billion, including the assumption of debt.
Under the stock-payment plan, American Realty guaranteed to pay
at least $13.59 for each Cole Credit share.  John Bacon, a spokesman for Cole Holdings, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail yesterday seeking comment on
the filing. Tony DeFazio, an American Realty spokesman, said he
couldn’t he couldn’t comment on it immediately.  The case is Strub v. Cole Holdings Corp., 24-C-13-001563,
In the Circuit Court of  Maryland , Baltimore City.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ; 