-- Contest to Succeed Kerry in Senate Heats Up in TV Debate
-- B y   A n n i e   L i n s k e y
-- 2013-03-28T02:42:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/contest-to-succeed-kerry-in-senate-heats-up-in-tv-debate.html
The two  Massachusetts  Democrats
seeking an open U.S. Senate seat clashed over health care in
their first debate ahead of next month’s primary vote.  U.S. Representative Ed Markey, 66, of Malden, said helping
to pass President  Barack Obama ’s signature health law was “the
proudest vote of my career.” Turning to his opponent, U.S.
Representative Steve Lynch of South Boston, who voted against
the 2010 Affordable Care Act, Markey said: “Steve, when that
vote came up, you were wrong when you were needed most.”  Lynch, 57, joined 33 Democrats to oppose the measure, while
219 voted in favor. Appearing before a statewide television
audience yesterday, Lynch and Markey sought ways to dissociate
themselves in the special election campaign that culminates in
June. Lynch said the measure was flawed and written to benefit
insurance companies that will add millions of customers.  “It was like a hostage situation, where we not only paid
the ransom, but we let the insurance companies keep the
hostages,” Lynch said.  The exchange was the sharpest in a night that offered Lynch
a chance to dislodge Markey from his poll-leading position. The
Malden lawmaker topped Lynch, a former ironworker, 35 percent to
24 percent among likely primary voters in a poll released March
26 by  Boston  University radio station WBUR-FM. Markey grabbed an
advantage by jumping into the race first and lining up support
from party leaders.  On Message  “Both candidates had a good night and both stuck with
their campaign strategy,” said Mary Anne Marsh, a Democratic
consultant with the Dewey Square Group in Boston. “Markey
emphasized his record and Lynch emphasized he is with the little
guy.”  Marsh said that Markey had the “stronger overall
performance” and Lynch “had some great hits.”  Lynch kept a folksy tone and earned laughs from the studio
audience on occasion. At one point he accused Markey of bailing
out Wall Street banks and leaving taxpayers with the bill.  “It seems like a pattern, where you are siding with the
big guys against the little guys,” Lynch said. “What’s up with
that?”  Markey stayed more serious -- rarely grinning and
occasionally shaking his head. He repeatedly mentioned his
endorsements from NARAL Pro-Choice America, a lobbying group
based in  Washington . Both men support abortion rights, though
Lynch came to the position more recently.  Fishing Disaster  At one point, Markey accused Lynch of failing to work with
the Massachusetts congressional delegation to include  disaster
relief  funds for the state’s commercial-fishing industry in a
larger bill.  Lynch called out Markey for not fighting new, much-reduced
federal catch limits, as he has. “The fishermen don’t want
disaster relief,” Lynch said. “They want to fish.”  Markey was a state representative when first elected to
Congress in 1976, at age 30. Lynch, also a former state
legislator, was an ironworkers union president as he made his
way through law school at  Boston College , Markey’s alma mater.  The winner of the April 30 primary will take on the day’s
Republican victor in the June 25 special election. Former U.S.
Senator  Scott Brown , 53, took himself out of the running last
month, leaving Republicans to scramble for a candidate.  The Senate post opened in January when  John Kerry , the
2004 Democratic presidential nominee, resigned to become U.S.
Secretary of State. Massachusetts Governor  Deval Patrick , a
Democrat, appointed William “Mo” Cowan, his former staff
chief, to fill the job on an interim basis.  Republicans Debate  The campaign is the third for a senate seat representing
the Bay State since 2009, when Senator  Ted Kennedy ’s death in
office led to a 2010 special election that Brown won. He lost a
bid for a full term to Democrat  Elizabeth Warren  in November.  The 30-minute Markey-Lynch round followed a half-hour
debate between three Republicans seeking their party’s
nomination for the job. Both events took place at WCVB-TV’s
studios in Needham, a town about 13 miles (20 kilometers) west
of Boston.  Bloomberg Radio  was among eight broadcasters that
sponsored the debate.  The Republicans who debated were former U.S. Attorney for
Massachusetts Michael Sullivan, 58, state Representative Dan Winslow, 54, and Gabriel Gomez, 47, a private-equity investor.  The group made few waves and tried to attack the Democrats
who weren’t on the stage with them.  Democrats outnumber Republicans 3-to-1 in Massachusetts,
while more than half of its registered voters, 52 percent, are
unaffiliated and can cast ballots in either party’s primary.  In the WBUR poll, either Democrat beat each Republican by
at least 15 percentage points in head-to-head match-ups. The
March 19-21 telephone survey of 610 likely voters, half of whom
said they were likely to vote as Democrats next month, had a
margin of error of plus or minus 4.1 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annie Linskey in Boston at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 