-- Contact Falls on Rio’s N.Z. Smelter Concerns: Wellington Mover
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2013-03-28T01:24:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/contact-falls-on-rio-s-n-z-smelter-concerns-wellington-mover.html
Contact Energy Ltd. (CEN) , New Zealand’s
largest publicly-traded energy supplier, fell after Meridian
Energy Ltd. said it was unlikely to agree to new price terms
with Rio Tinto Ltd.’s South Island aluminum smelter, stoking
concerns that the facility may close and leave a power glut.  Meridian advised Rio unit Pacific Aluminium, which has been
seeking to change its electricity contract since July, of its
“bottom line” position on Tiwai Point, it said in a statement.
State-owned Meridian said it may instead engage with Rio and
minority investor Sumitomo Chemical Co. about the future of the
smelter, which consumes one-seventh of New Zealand’s
electricity.  Contact shares fell as much as 3.5 percent in Wellington,
heading for their biggest daily decline since Oct. 9.  “I think we’re going to be worrying about it for the next
six months, until we’ve got certainty on what the medium term
looks like,” Grant Swanepoel, an Auckland-based analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG with a ‘buy’ rating on Contact, said in a
telephone interview.  Contact, which supplies a quarter of the nation’s
electricity, and other power companies would face less demand
for their power if Tiwai closed. Rio transferred Tiwai and other
aluminum assets into a separate unit in 2011 to boost the
group’s financial performance, as aluminum producers struggle
with weak markets due to an overcapacity of smelters.  Contact’s  shares  were down 4  New Zealand  cents, or 0.7
percent, at 2:19 p.m. in Wellington. They recovered earlier
losses after Pacific Aluminium said that an agreement with
Meridian could occur and that talks “had progressed more in the
past two weeks than in the previous nine months,” according to
an e-mailed statement.  New Zealand’s government has been in talks with Rio,
seeking to assist the Meridian negotiations, State Owned Asset
Minister Tony Ryall said in an e-mailed statement. He also
sought to assure potential investors in the upcoming Mighty
River Power share sale that all relevant information about the
smelter’s contract would be in that offer document.  The existing agreement remains in place until at least Jan.
1, 2016, with “significant financial and other obligations
beyond that,” said Ryall.  Mighty River Power is the first of three state-owned energy
companies, including Meridian, that the government plans to
partially sell in share offerings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Bourke at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net  