-- Cordray Says Consumer Complaint Data Can Aid Financial Companies
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-03-28T16:36:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/cordray-says-consumer-complaint-data-can-aid-financial-companies.html
Financial services companies should
use the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s complaint
database to head off potential lawsuits instead of objecting to
its public release, the director of the agency said today.  “If they want to do so, they can use this information to
improve their  customer service  and their general practices,”
 Richard Cordray  said in a  speech  in Des Moines, Iowa. “Data can
help them detect regulatory risks and address problems before
they are faced with potential enforcement action or private
litigation.”  The agency is holding a hearing in Des Moines today on its
consumer complaint system, which has been criticized by the
industry for tarnishing respectable brands by publicizing data
on complaints that may not be valid.  The bureau was created by the 2010 Dodd-Frank law to
protect consumers from abusive financial practices. It
supervises major banks such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  US
Bancorp (USB) , and non-bank firms like payday lenders, credit bureaus
and debt collectors.  Today, the CFPB expanded the body of published data on
consumer complaints from about 19,000 entries to more than
90,000 on mortgages,  student loans , checking accounts and other
consumer products. It had previously only published data on
credit card complaints.  Cordray explicitly rejected the industry’s criticism of the
data’s impact on their reputations.  “The database is good for consumers and it is also good
for honest businesses,” Cordray said in an e-mailed statement
prior to his speech. “We believe the marketplace of ideas can
do great things with this data.”  Complaint Data  From July 21, 2011 through February 28, 2013, the CFPB
received about 131,300 complaints, according to a  report 
published today. Of those, 49 percent concerned mortgages, and
23 percent dealt with credit cards. Another 15 percent were
about bank accounts, while 5 percent covered credit reports and
4 percent student loans.  Geographically, a zip code in Broward County, in southern
 Florida , generated the most complaints, with 545. It was
followed by a zip in Oakland County, Michigan, with 286. Third
was a zip code in San Bernardino County, in southern  California ,
with 85.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  