-- Credit-Tied Structured Notes Add Range Coupons for Higher Yields
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-03-28T10:37:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/credit-tied-structured-notes-add-range-coupons-for-higher-yields.html
Banks are boosting sales of credit-
linked structured notes that pay coupons when stocks or  interest
rates  they are linked to trade within predefined ranges as they
seek to offer investors higher yields.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and Standard Chartered Plc are among lenders
selling $260 million of credit-linked range accrual notes this
year, up from $43.8 million in the same period in 2012,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The notes typically pay
interest for days on which prices of the reference assets trade
within a range. A lower coupon or no interest is accrued when
the index is outside the preset limits.  Credit-linked securities, which had the best sales in four
years in 2012 at $44 billion, are attracting new investors who
previously bought notes tied to interest rates or equities, said
Aymeric Paillat, the London-based head of credit exotics trading
at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   “These investors are typically looking for a pickup in
yield and seeking structures they are familiar with,” he said.  JPMorgan sold $50 million of the securities tied to the
debt of  South Korea  on March 21 that pay 4.45 percent so long as
the 10-year dollar  swap rate  is between zero percent and 6
percent. The biggest  U.S. bank  by assets also issued $40 million
of 20-year fixed-rate notes on March 13 tied to  Asia ’s fourth-
biggest economy that pay 3.7 percent, Bloomberg data show.  Accrual Securities  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  raised $50 million from selling 10-year
range accrual securities on March 15 tied to the debt of  Israel .
The notes pay 5.15 percent so long as the three-month London
interbank offered rate for dollar loans is between zero percent
and 6 percent.  Only two other notes have linked Israel’s debt this year --
a $5 million security from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. with a
floating rate coupon that initially pays 1.93 percent and a $2
million note from Societe Generale SA that has a fixed coupon of
1.8 percent, Bloomberg data show.  Issuers are also adding extra layers of risk to notes to
enhance yields. Lenders sold $156.2 million of credit securities
that are linked to other assets, such as the U.K.’s FTSE 100
index, from $28.9 million a year earlier.  Bank of America Corp. raised $39.5 million from selling
notes tied to the South African government. The securities pay
0.9 percent plus 46.5 percent times the performance of the FTSE
100 from the issue date until March 2014, after which investors
receive three-month dollar Libor plus 180 basis points,
Bloomberg data show.  Investors in credit-linked notes are exposed to the credit
risk of the bank issuing the securities and the reference
entity, which can be a company or a government. The extra
returns available from buying the notes of riskier issuers has
fallen as credit-default swaps for European and U.S. banks
remain below last year’s highs and credit spreads for most
underlying assets also tightened, cutting potential yields.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  