-- Currency Funds Rose in February on Rallying Dollar, Parker Says
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2013-03-28T18:43:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/currency-funds-rose-in-february-on-rallying-dollar-parker-says.html
Foreign-exchange funds  gained  0.48
percent in February as a rallying dollar led gains, according to
Parker Global Strategies LLC.  Among the 41 funds that reported results, the performance
ranged from a return of 6.96 percent to a loss of 2.11 percent,
the company said today in a news release. Among the funds, 20
gained and 21 reported a loss. The company’s index is down 0.74
percent for the past 12 months.  The threat of U.S. government spending reductions, known as
sequestration, proved no barrier to investors snapping up
American assets,  Stamford , Connecticut-based Parker said. Home
sales,  consumer confidence  and employment improved,
overshadowing the impact of cuts predicted to gnaw 0.6 percent
from growth in the world’s biggest economy this year.  “Bullish financial markets persisted as investors’ risk
appetites strengthened,” according to the statement. “The
upcoming U.S. spending cuts had little effect on the dollar’s
rally, which was supported by positive economic data.”  Consumer confidence had the biggest gain in February since
November 2011. Purchases of new homes jumped in January to the
highest level in more than four years, while homebuilders began
work on the most homes since July 2008.  The dollar gained versus 14 of its 16 major peers in
February, while the euro fell against 14 major counterparts.
The Dollar Index, which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses to
track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S. trade
partners, climbed 3.5 percent last month.  The Parker index includes 45 programs managed by 38 firms
that oversee $42 billion in North America,  Europe ,  Singapore  and
 Australia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  