-- Cyprus Rescue Shows European Bank Union Needed, S&P Says
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-03-28T12:06:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/cyprus-rescue-shows-european-bank-union-needed-s-p-says.html
The rescue of Cyprus, which wiped
out bank bondholders and taxed savings, shows Europe needs
closer coordination of banking policy, according to Standard &
Poor’s Ratings Services.  European leaders need to strengthen supervision and give
investors clarity on how they will react to bank insolvencies in
the future, S&P said in a statement today. Setting up a fund to
wind down failed banks across Europe would also help break the
link between indebted states and their banks, S&P said.  Europe broke with tradition this month by forcing losses on
senior bond investors and imposing a levy on deposits of more
than 100,000 euros ($128,000) in its rescue of Cyprus. That plan
showed countries in the currency union are reluctant to use
taxpayers’ funds to prop up banks in other states, S&P said.  The rescue may create a precedent and “future cross-border
support programs, if required, may similarly be less supportive
of banks’ senior creditors than previously,” Richard Barnes, a
London-based S&P credit analyst, said in the statement.  European leaders have sought to quash that notion and
pushed back against the impression Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem gave this week that the swoop on bank accounts and
bonds could be replicated elsewhere.  The measures in Cyprus were tailored to the “exceptional”
situation of the country, according to a document drafted by
representatives of euro-zone finance ministries. Cypriot banks
are heavily reliant on deposits rather than debt for funding.  Senior Creditors  European banking shares rose today, led by  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,
Italy’s largest bank, which climbed 2.6 percent to 3.37 euros by
12:41 p.m. in Milan trading. The 28-company  Euro Stoxx Banks
Index (SX7E)  advanced 1 percent.  Individual governments will probably still support senior
creditors of systemically important domestic banks if they have
the funds to intervene, S&P said.  S&P, which doesn’t rate deposit-taking banks in Cyprus or
any Cypriot branches of foreign banks, said it doesn’t expect to
take “immediate” rating actions on euro-area banks after the
rescue of Cyprus.  The rating company did say it could lower its stand-alone
credit profiles on European lenders -- its opinion of banks’
creditworthiness without extraordinary support -- if the events
in Cyprus “materially raise the cost, or reduce the stability,
of the deposits and wholesale funding in other pressured euro-
zone countries.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  