-- Cyprus Crisis Solved in Great Depression Laws: Cutting Research
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2013-03-28T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/cyprus-crisis-solved-in-great-depression-laws-cutting-research.html
The federal holiday that President
Franklin Roosevelt declared for American banks in March 1933 may
hold lessons for the euro area of 2013 amid the banking  crisis
in Cyprus .  In looking to the Great Depression,  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) 
economists and strategists said that big crises can spring from
small events. In the U.S., numerous  reports  show it was a 1933
Valentine’s Day bank holiday in one state,  Michigan , that
sparked a nationwide bank run. As with Cyprus, what counts is
the ability of policy makers to maintain confidence elsewhere no
matter what happens.  “Euro area policy makers might believe that Cyprus is not
systemic,” said Nomura. “History shows that is exactly the
opposite when depositors are involved.”  Nomura’s  Jacques Cailloux , Dimitris Drakopoulos and Jens Nordvig outlined the parallels of 80 years ago in a March 25
report written after Cyprus secured a 10 billion euro ($12.8
billion) aid package. The country’s banks were closed March 16
to prevent collapse and reopened today with capital controls
in place.  The U.S. experience was also instructive in that the
Federal Reserve was given power to create an emergency currency
that created the expectation policy makers would guarantee all
bank deposits. The equivalent in the euro area would be for the
European Central Bank to match deposit withdrawal with cash.
That “is very hard to see” given collateral rules, the report
said.  In a separate report, released March 19, Russell Napier, a
strategist at CLSA Ltd., said an historical parallel might be
the citizens of the Soviet Union or the American colonies who
“eventually reject the sacrifice of political rights necessary
to support the system.”  Cypriots were angered by a March 16 bailout program in
which all bank deposits would be taxed. The ultimate deal
protected those with accounts holding less than 100,000 euros.  “When the history books are written, the Brussels-imposed
sequestration in Cyprus will be seen as the tipping point when
the citizens of the euro system realized that the socio-
political sacrifice needed to sustain a single currency was just
too great,” said Napier.  * * *  Income inequality is becoming an increasing issue for
Federal Reserve officials and may prove to be an important
factor in monetary policy, according to  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)   Citing speeches by policy makers including Vice Chairman
Janet Yellen and Governors Sarah Bloom Raskin and  Elizabeth Duke , New York-based economists Neal Soss and Dana Saporta said
in a March 24 report that officials are concerned income
disparity undermines the ability of the economy to grow
sustainably and efficiently.  Raskin has noted the U.S.  poverty  rate now stands at 15
percent, higher than the three-decade average of 13.4 percent,
while Duke says new households face tight credit conditions.
Yellen says hourly compensation has barely kept pace with the
cost of living over the last three years.  By contrast, Soss and Saporta said the collective finances
of American households appear to have improved since the 2009
recession. Debt-service burdens are the lowest in 30 years and
record low borrowing costs have helped households extend
financially.  The challenge is that the Fed has limited means to address
inequality, they said. Chairman Ben S. Bernanke has said the
best way the Fed can help is to spur hiring.  That suggests to the Credit Suisse economists that
inequality probably will to play a role in the data used to
justify continuing easy monetary policy.  * * *  China ’s economic data may be reliable after all.  So says a  study  published March 25 by the Federal Reserve
Bank of San Francisco. It challenges those who have questioned
whether China slowed more in 2012 than gross domestic product
figures indicate.  The veracity of China’s output and industrial production
figures is backed up by other measures of economic activity.
That’s a sign the official growth rate of 7.8 percent last year,
the weakest in 13 years, was valid.  The report combined data such as electricity production,
rail cargo shipments, construction of new floor space, air
passenger volumes and measures of trade reported outside of
China. The results were consistent with last year’s slowdown and
the pickup in growth that began in the fourth quarter.  “These models suggest that Chinese growth has been in the
ballpark of what official data have reported,” wrote economists
John Fernald, Israel Malkin and Mark Spiegel.  A caveat is that the report doesn’t provide evidence on
the long-term accuracy of China’s GDP statistics, so if they are
consistently over-reported the Fed bank’s statistical
relationships would be skewed by the persistent bias.  * * *  South  Korea ’s private consumption growth rate has lagged
behind the pace of economic expansion since the global financial
crisis due to slow wage increases and worsening terms of trade,
according to an economist at the Bank of Korea.  The widening gap between rich and poor contributed to the
limited consumption: High-income earners were reluctant to spend
more on non-necessities amid persistent uncertainty over the
global economic outlook, Nah Seung Ho said in a March 24 study.  In addition, increases in household debt that exceed income
growth have capped private spending, while an aging population
and an increase in self-employment restrains gains in incomes,
the report said.  Sluggish private spending increases the economy’s
vulnerability to changes in global economic conditions while
sapping corporate investment, the report said. Nah studied 40
big economies and found the lower the ratio of domestic demand
to gross domestic product, the higher the correlation with
global economic changes.  The latest developments on South Korea’s household income
and consumption may worsen the economy’s structural weakness,
hampering sustainable growth, the economist said. As of 2011,
South Korean consumers spent 99.2 percent of their disposable
income, leading to lower savings rates and higher demand for
borrowings, a potential threat to the financial system.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net 
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  