-- Cyprus’s Banks Open After Two Weeks as Controls Curb Panic
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s ,   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n .
-- 2013-03-28T11:04:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/cypriot-banks-open-doors-after-two-weeks-as-customers-hunt-cash.html
Cyprus’s banks opened for the first
time in almost two weeks, with new rules curbing access to cash
preventing an initial panic to withdraw deposits.  “We expected much more people,” said Argyros Eraclides,
manager of a Bank of Cyprus branch in the Stavrou area of
Nicosia. “Fortunately there are only some people who needed
cash for the day, but customers reacted fantastically. We
expected some people to be more aggravated.”  Banks opened at midday local time today, with lines of
about 15 to 20 people waiting to enter branches in the Cypriot
capital. The  Central Bank of Cyprus ’s money controls include a
300-euro ($383) daily limit on withdrawals and restrictions on
transfers to accounts outside the country.  Cyprus’s lenders have been closed since March 16, when the
European Union presented a proposal to force losses on all
depositors in exchange for a 10 billion-euro bailout. That plan
touched off protests and political upheaval on the island, and
was rejected by the country’s parliament. A subsequent agreement
shut  Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl (CPB) , the second-largest lender, and
imposed larger losses on uninsured depositors.  Call for Calm  Banks will close today at 6 p.m., Yiangos Dimitriou, head
of the central bank’s audit department, said yesterday in
comments broadcast on state-run CyBC television.  The controls will be in force for seven days, according to
a statement from the  Finance Ministry . Dimitriou had said they
would be in effect for four days. The European Commission said
in a statement today the control on capital movements must
remain “proportionate” and be lifted as soon as possible.  “Please, let’s all be calm and be careful not to create
more problems,” Dimitriou said. “It will serve no purpose for
us to run to banks and try to find ways to get money.”  Security guards at banks in Nicosia were allowing about
eight or nine customers in branches at any one time today, with
orderly lines forming after an initial push at the doors to get
in. Many were older customers without cash-machine cards, while
others were waiting to pay bills or deposit checks.  “I only bought a few small items during these days to
survive,” said pensioner Kyriakos Hadjisophocleos, 65, waiting
on a bench in front of a Bank of Cyprus branch in Nicosia since
7:30 a.m. to get money to pay part of his 380-euro rent. “I had
many coins saved up so I was using them. If the banks didn’t
open today I would have had to borrow from some friends.”  Markets Muted  Stocks and the euro fell, with the single currency
extending this year’s declined against the  U.S. dollar  to 3.2
percent. It traded at $1.2773 at 11:04 a.m. in  Frankfurt .
Spanish bonds also slid, with the  10-year yield  rising six basis
points, or 0.06 percentage points, to 5.14 percent.  The Cyprus Parliament last week gave wide-ranging powers to
the central bank governor, Panicos Demetriades, and Finance
Minister Michael Sarris, who have spent the last days deciding
which measures to implement.  Those chosen include bans on terminating  time deposits  and
cashing checks. Customers can transfer abroad at most 5,000
euros per month from a given financial institution.  “People have organized their budget for the week through
the ATM machines and the radio has been calling on people not to
run to the banks today,” Maria Kyriacou, a Cypriot ruling-party
lawmaker, told Bloomberg Television.  Chaos Fear  Scenes in front of bank branches in the Cypriot capital
were largely quiet in the hours before lenders’ doors opened,
with many savers heeding the government’s call for citizens not
to rush to banks or bracing for potential chaos.  “I will not go to the bank today because I’m afraid that
it will be chaos,” said Maria Charalambous, a grocery store
owner. “You do not know who will be behind you in the line and
you could end up getting robbed. I will wait and see.”  The restrictions aim to protect the country’s financial
industry, while trying to uphold the principle of free movement
of capital within the EU, Aliki Stylianou, a central bank
spokeswoman, said yesterday before the measures were announced.  Cyprus in June became the fifth euro-area nation to request
a rescue, after  Greece ’s debt restructuring trashed the
financial health of lenders including  Bank of Cyprus Plc , the
nation’s biggest lender, and Cyprus Popular.  The 18 billion-euro economy is the third-smallest in the
17-nation euro area. Before the bailout, which was coupled with
an austerity package, the European Commission predicted a
contraction of 3.5 percent in 2013. Economists said afterward
that the damage will be greater.  Ratings Cut  Moody’s Investors Service yesterday lowered the highest
rating that can be assigned to a domestic debt issuer in Cyprus
to Caa2, citing a growing risk that the country would exit the
euro. The company said Cyprus’s Caa3 government bond rating and
negative outlook remain unchanged.  Listed Greek companies reported the amounts of the deposits
they held in Cypriot banks at the request of the Hellenic
Capital Markets Commission.  Jumbo SA (BELA) , Greece’s biggest toy
retailer, said it holds about 58 million euros at Bank of Cyprus
and predicted sales in Cyprus would drop as much as 25 percent
by the end of the current fiscal year.  Deposits at Alpha Bank SA’s Cypriot unit stood at 2.7
billion euros at the end of 2012, Chief Financial Officer
Vassilios Psaltis said yesterday. Alpha, Greece’s third-largest
lender and the one with the biggest presence in Cyprus, reported
a 1.1 billion-euro loss for the year.  “I won’t go to the bank today because I have no money,”
Antonis Evripidou, 53, a  taxi driver  in Nicosia, said today. “I
owe money. Things will only get worse. This is only the start.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  