-- Czechs Keep Rates Near Zero as Split Board Mulls Currency Sales
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-03-28T12:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/czechs-keep-rates-near-zero-as-split-board-mulls-currency-sales.html
The Czech central bank kept
interest rates near zero for a third meeting as policy makers
debate whether to stimulate an economy racked by a record-long
recession through a weaker koruna.  The Ceska Narodni Banka kept the main two-week rate at 0.05
percent, in line with forecasts of all 20 analysts in a
 Bloomberg survey  and almost three-quarters of a percentage point
less than the euro-area benchmark. Governor Miroslav Singer, who
had said the March meeting would feature talk on the currency,
will hold a news briefing at 2:30 p.m. in  Prague .  Monetary authorities from the U.K. to  Japan  are easing
policy, fueling a depreciation of their currencies, while the
Czech central bank ponders its first intervention in a decade. A
weaker koruna would help exports, which make up 80 percent of a
$217 billion  economy  that has contracted for four quarters amid
government austerity measures and  Europe ’s debt crisis.  “Data have generally surprised the CNB on the downside,
but the central bank is likely not in a rush to ease monetary
conditions,” Mai Doan, economist at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch in  London , said in a March 26 report to clients. This
week’s board decision “will likely disappoint those expecting
concrete signals for FX intervention.”  The koruna is at the center of the policy plans as its
depreciation helps boost competitiveness of Czech goods on
foreign markets and makes imports more expensive, thus limiting
deflation risks. The currency has lost 4.6 percent to the euro
since Sept. 17, a day before Singer first said the central bank
may sell the currency to meet its inflation goal.  Koruna’s Performance  The koruna had the fourth-worst performance among 25
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg in the period.
The decline was also outdone by a 14.2 percent fall in the
Japanese yen against the euro and matched by the British pound’s
loss since Sept. 17.  The koruna has traded at 25.538 to the euro on average so
far this year, in line with the central bank’s forecast for the
first quarter. It was 0.1 percent stronger at 25.754 per euro as
of 12:50 p.m. in Prague.  In the past month, several board members have voiced
differing views on what policy setting is appropriate to meet
the  inflation  target. The forecast of the central bank, whose
mandate is  price stability , signals that currency sales may be
needed in the second half of the year, Singer said in an
interview published in Euro magazine on March. 4.  His comments echoed Feb. 26 remarks by board member Lubomir
Lizal, while Kamil Janacek was cited as telling Reuters March 19
that no intervention is needed as monetary conditions are
relaxed enough to allow for a gradual economic recovery.  Deflationary Spiral  For Hampl, the Czech economy isn’t in danger of falling
into a deflationary spiral now that would warrant koruna sales.  “For me personally, a trigger for interventions would be
the moment when I see a highly probable risk of a long-lasting,
devastating deflationary spiral,” Hampl in a March 18
interview. “I personally don’t see such a strong risk yet. It
can’t be ruled out that this risk will appear in the future, but
I don’t see it materializing for now.”  The seven-member board, which was split on monetary easing
at five meetings last year, would have to approve the use of
direct interventions as a policy tool, Singer said. The bank
last sold the koruna to stem its appreciation in 2002.  The  inflation  rate dropped to 1.7 percent in February from
1.9 percent in January, below the central bank’s 2 percent
target. Fourth-quarter  gross domestic product  shrank 0.2 percent
from the previous three months, the fourth consecutive quarterly
contraction.  GDP Forecasts  The central bank in February cut its economic forecast for
2013 as the government’s austerity measures continue to damp
demand. It projects GDP contracting 0.3 percent this year before
growing 2.1 percent in 2014. The inflation rate is seen at 1.7
percent in the first and second quarters of next year.  Central banks in the region are cutting borrowing costs to
foster economic growth. Hungary lowered its main  interest rate 
this week to a record low of 5 percent. Poland has also cut its
benchmark to a record, reducing it by a half-point to 3.25
percent on March 6.  Hampl and Janacek’s comments were “hawkish” because they
clashed with the central bank’s forecast, which assumes a
“further, moderate decline in interest rates,” said  Jaromir
Sindel , an economist at Citigroup Inc. in Prague, by e-mail.  The Czech currency will ease further to 25.8 per euro in
the second quarter, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of 23 analysts. That would be weaker than the
central bank’s forecast of 25.3 per euro for the quarter.  The koruna “is slightly weaker than the central bank
expected in its forecast,”  Jan Vejmelek , chief economist at
Societe Generale SA’s unit  Komercni Banka AS (KOMB) , said in an e-mail
yesterday. “We don’t expect the central bankers to use direct
market interventions against the domestic currency, moreover, we
don’t see using verbal interventions as urgent either.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  