-- D.E Master Blenders Shares Surge on Talks With Benckiser
-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s
-- 2013-03-28T13:26:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/d-e-master-blenders-shares-surge-on-talks-with-benckiser.html
D.E Master Blenders 1753 NV (DE) , the
coffee and tea company spun off by Sara Lee Corp., said it’s in
talks to be acquired by a group led by Joh. A. Benckiser in a
bid that values the company at 7.6 billion euros ($9.7 billion).  JAB, the investment firm run by Bart Becht, plans to pay
12.75 euros a share, Amsterdam-based Master Blenders said today,
a 33 percent premium to yesterday’s closing price. The proposal
is subject to an examination of the company’s finances and talks
are “in an early stage,” the maker of Douwe Egberts said.  Master Blenders  gained  as much as 31 percent in Amsterdam
trading, the most since it was spun off from Sara Lee in June.
JAB raised its stake in the company to 15.05 percent in October.  Buying Master Blenders would add to JAB’s coffee
investments, which it bolstered in the past year by purchasing
Peet’s Coffee & Tea Inc. for about $1 billion and Caribou Coffee
Co. for $340 million. A takeover would pit the Benckiser family
against  Nestle SA, (NESN)  the Swiss maker of Nespresso, the biggest
single-service brand in the $45 billion global coffee business.  “There’s a lot of potential in Master Blenders,” said
 Richard Withagen , an analyst at SNS Securities in Amsterdam.
“JAB think they can get a good return on the price.”  The offer values Master Blenders at a multiple of 29 times
earnings, according to Pierre Tegner, an analyst at Natixis in
Paris. That’s less than the 40 times earnings that JAB paid for
Emeryville, California-based Peet’s and the 42 times it offered
in December for Minneapolis-based Caribou.  Coffee Empire  Becht is assembling a coffee empire after JAB subsidiary
Coty Inc. unsuccessfully attempted a takeover last year of door-
to-door cosmetics seller  Avon Products Inc. (AVP)  for more than $10
billion. Becht, also chairman of Coty, said then that the
perfume maker would pursue other opportunities.  Master Blenders makes L’OR capsules that are compatible
with Nespresso machines, while its Senseo system competes with
Nestle’s Nescafe Dolce Gusto portioned coffee brand, which is
nearing annual sales of 1 billion Swiss francs. Nespresso’s
sales exceeded 3.5 billion Swiss francs ($3.7 billion) in 2011.  Master Blenders shares were up 26 percent at 12.15 euros at
2:15 p.m., valuing the company at about 7.2 billion euros.  Since being spun off from Sara Lee, Master Blenders has
restated earnings because of accounting irregularities in  Brazil 
and reported sales that missed estimates. Chief Executive
Officer Michiel Herkemij left at the end of last year because of
a difference of opinion, leaving Chairman Jan Bennink in charge.  Dutch Takeovers  The company dealt a fresh blow to investors last month by
reducing its 2013 sales and profitability forecasts amid
increasing pressure on prices in  Europe .  Master Blenders has revamped its Senseo system with new
packaging and flavors and has said it plans to expand into new
regions. The company has introduced a new machine called Sarista
that uses whole beans and is aimed at coffee aficionados.  Companies in the Netherlands have become increasingly
attractive as takeover targets as they struggle to compete
against larger international rivals and offer bidders a foothold
into continental Europe.  Liberty Global today agreed to buy a 12.7 percent stake in
Dutch cable company Ziggo NV for 633 million euros as it builds
a pan-European franchise.  CSM NV, (CSM)  a Dutch maker of bakery
ingredients, on March 25 agreed to sell its bakery supplies unit
for $1.4 billion, while billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s America Movil
SAB snapped up 28 percent of Royal KPN NV for about $3.4 billion
last year. United Parcel Service Inc.’s $7 billion offer for TNT
Express NV was later thwarted by antitrust objections.  Reckitt Stake  JAB may further reduce its stake in  Reckitt Benckiser Group
Plc (RB/)  to help fund the purchase of Master Blenders, said Tegner of
Natixis. The Luxembourg-based investment firm raised about 1.2
billion pounds ($1.8 billion) in May by selling a 4.9 percent
holding in the maker of Lysol cleaners. It still owns 10.5
percent, worth about 3.6 billion pounds. Becht said in January
that JAB has no plan to cut its stake any further.  Tom Johnson, a spokesman for JAB, said today that he
couldn’t comment beyond Master Blenders’ statement.  Reckitt Benckiser  fell  as much as 3.1 percent in London
trading and was down 1.1 percent at 4,725 pence at 1:15 p.m.  Lazard Ltd., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase &
Co. are acting for Master Blenders, with Allen & Overy LLP
giving legal advice, spokesman Michiel Quarles van Ufford said.  AB InBev Speculation  Today’s announcement from the Dutch coffee company came
after the Daily Mail reported that  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV, (ABI)  the
world’s biggest brewer, sounded out two of Master Blenders’
biggest shareholders about the possibility of acquiring their
stakes prior to making a full offer at 12.50 euros a share. The
newspaper cited traders that it didn’t identify. AB InBev never
comments on market speculation, spokeswoman Karen Couck said by
e-mail. Van Ufford said he was unable to comment on the report.  Olivier Goudet and Peter Harf, who run JAB along with
Becht, once served together on the board of directors of AB
InBev. The trio collectively own 8 percent of JAB.  In addition to JAB, other main shareholders in Master
Blenders include Morgan Stanley, FMR LLC and DB Platinum
Advisors, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “At this time, I can’t see anyone realistically coming
with a superior offer,” SNS’s Withagen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Jarvis in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  