-- Darth Vader Inspiration Can Guide Big East Pick New Name
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2013-03-28T14:51:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/darth-vader-inspiration-can-guide-big-east-pick-new-name.html
Darth Vader might serve as
inspiration for the Big East Conference, which must change its
name after the so-called Catholic Seven leaves in three months
and takes the league’s moniker with them.  Among the names suggested by the marketing firm Duffy &
Shanley when the conference formed in 1979 was Galactic East,
which the company said was inspired by the 1977 movie “Star
Wars.” Other suggestions were the Empire Conference, Conference
One, Eastern One, Olympic Conference and Eastern Compact,
according to the plan, a copy of which was provided to Bloomberg
by Dave Duffy, a partner in the firm at the time.  “What’s in a name?” the report said. “It must be strong.
It must be simple. And, hopefully, it can be somewhat
original.”  Geographic-based suggestions were the Big East, Met-East
and North Atlantic Alliance. Heritage-based suggestions were the
Patriot Athletic Conference, Colonial League and Mayflower
Compact.  The firm’s principal recommendation was the Big East, which
will be used by the seven departing schools that include
Georgetown University, Villanova University and Providence
College. Joseph Shanley, the father of current Providence
College President Brian Shanley, was a partner in the marketing
firm.  The departing schools also retained the right to play their
postseason tournament at New York’s Madison Square  Garden (MSG) , while
the existing Big East football schools will share about $110
million. Duffy said the departing schools were smart to keep the
Big East name. The new Big East begins operations on July 1.  “All the great brands of the world -- General Electric,
Coca-Cola, they have a lot of roots,” Duffy, 73, said in a
telephone interview from  Florida . “It would be hard for the new
basketball league to start over and match that.”  America 12  John Paquette, who joined the Big East in 1990 and is now
its spokesman, said he’s never seen the original marketing plan
and hasn’t heard of it being anywhere in the conference’s
Providence, Rhode Island, offices.  Covington & Burling attorney Marie Lavalleye, acting as a
representative of the league, on March 6 filed an application
with the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office for the term “America
12 Conference.” She didn’t return a telephone calling seeking
comment on the name change.  Duffy & Shanley in the original marketing plan said the
conference’s original name, “at least in the beginning,”
probably shouldn’t include a number because conference members
are sure to change, a recommendation he said is even more valid
today with all of the realignment in college sports. Shanley,
the Providence president, earlier this month said “the
landscape in college sports has not stopped morphing.”  16 Gone  Since 2011, the Big East has lost 16 schools that were
either members or dropped out before playing a game. The Pac-10
Conference, meantime, became the Pac-12 after adding two
schools. The Big Ten Conference hasn’t had 10 teams since Penn
State University joined in 1990. While the Big Ten didn’t change
its name at the time, it did alter its  logo  to reflect an 11th
team. The current Big Ten has 12 football members and is adding
more.  “Numbers don’t mean anything today,” Duffy said, pausing
for a moment before correcting himself. One number, he said,
does make sense, harkening back to the original marketing plan
for the Big East.  “The only number I would go for now, and we actually
discussed it a lot back then, would be Conference One,” Duffy
said. “You’d need a lot of hubris to do that and imply you are
No. 1. It would make a great logo, too. Outside of that, numbers
don’t mean anything today.”  Meanwhile, the “Star Wars” theme might become relevant
once again: Walt Disney Co. has said it plans to release the
series’ final trilogy starting in 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  