-- Diesel Exports From U.S. Rising as Plant Maintenance Winds Down
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2013-03-28T11:27:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/diesel-exports-from-u-s-rising-as-plant-maintenance-winds-down.html
Exports of diesel fuel from the
U.S. Gulf Coast are poised to climb as refineries returning from
maintenance boost production, widening the price gap between the
Gulf and  Europe  while  freight rates  hover near a six-month low.  Plants are ramping up after planned work in the first
quarter that took 1.13 million barrels a day of capacity
offline, 45 percent above the five-year average, according to
IIR Energy. The rate to book a vessel from the Gulf to Europe
dropped 33 percent to a 2012 low on March 20, Baltic Exchange
data show.  Refineries including Motiva Enterprises LLC’s Port Arthur,
Texas, plant and  Chevron Corp. (CVR) ’s Pascagoula,  Mississippi , site
are expected to complete work next month, boosting output at a
time when European maintenance may peak. Shipments to Europe and
Latin America may keep the so-called arbitrage open, sustaining
profit margins for refiners even as domestic demand slides.  “There are increasing runs in the Gulf Coast, lower runs
in Europe and demand increasing from the Southern Hemisphere,”
Tom Finlon, director of Energy Analytics Group Ltd., said in a
phone interview on March 22 from Jupiter,  Florida . “Low freight
rates help the arbitrage opportunity in the Gulf.”  Ultra-low-sulfur diesel swaps that settle based on prices
in the Gulf Coast spot market slipped to $3.0054 a gallon
($919.65 per metric ton) yesterday, according to fair-value data
compiled by Bloomberg. Swaps for diesel cargoes delivered in
Northwest Europe were $949.63 a ton.  Shipping Profit  Including freight costs,  the profit  to buy diesel and ship
it to Northwest Europe was $9.33 per metric ton, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That doesn’t include additional
expense to blend the fuel to European specifications.  “The arb to Europe is going to be open for a while,
certainly through the month of April,” Finlon said.  Crude and other feedstocks  processed  by Gulf Coast refiners
jumped to 7.84 million barrels a day last week, the highest
level for this time of year in Energy Information Administration
data back to 1993.  Across the U.S., plant rates rose to 85.7 percent in the
week ended March 22 from 81 percent as of March 8, the lowest
level since September 2011, EIA data show.  The boost in refinery production comes as U.S. consumption
has yet to recover from the worst economic downturn since the
Great Depression, encouraging refiners to export excess fuel to
Europe, where plant capacity is declining.  Distillate demand  in
December was 8.4 percent lower than a year earlier.  IIR, an energy information provider based in Sugar Land,
 Texas , estimates maintenance from April to June will slide to an
average of 676,000 barrels a day.  ’Heavy Maintenance’  “We’ve had very heavy maintenance and now we’re going to
see these refineries start to come back on,” Carl Larry, broker
with Atlas Commodities LLC, said in a phone interview from
Houston. “As long as U.S. demand stays low and Europe is in
turnaround, we’re probably going to ship there.”  Traders and oil companies will hire eight tankers to load
 diesel fuel  for the Gulf Coast-Europe voyage in the two weeks to
April 3, according to the median estimate in a survey of five
shipbrokers who specialize in arranging diesel cargoes. The
number of ships seeking charters will be 32, up from 31 in early
March. The survey is based on a so-called single voyage, or
spot, charters.  European Work  Six European refineries with a total capacity of about 1.51
million barrels a day are expected to conduct maintenance during
the month of April, according to Emirates National Oil Company.
Among the biggest plants are Total SA’s Antwerp, Belgium,
refinery, PCK Raffinerie GmbH’s Schwedt,  Germany , site, and TNK-
BP Ltd.’s Ryazan, Russia, facility.  “The market is currently well supplied, with normal demand
seen in the U.K., Germany and  France ,” an mid-March ENOC report
showed. “April maintenance is expected to lower production in
Germany, Poland and  Italy .”  Motiva’s 600,000-barrel-a-day Port Arthur refinery, the
largest in the U.S., began 38 days of work on a sulfur recovery
unit, delayed coker and pipestill No. 2 around Feb. 14.
Chevron’s  Pascagoula plant  was conducting a turnaround on a
crude distillation unit, vacuum distillation unit, coker and
hydrotreater this month.  Cargoes will also head to Latin America, where the EIA
forecast fuel consumption will grow 4 percent to 7.01 million
barrels a day in the second quarter from a year earlier.  Latin America  Latin American refinery throughput is expected to average
5.9 million barrels a day in 2013, about 70,000 barrels more
than a year earlier, according to data compiled by Energy
Security Analysis, Inc. The increase is a result of fewer
refinery disruptions and the expectation for a full return of
Petroleos de Venezuela SA’s 645,000-barrel-a-day Amuay plant in
the second half of the year, Christopher Barber, a senior
analyst at Energy Security Analysis, Inc., said by phone.  Amuay, part of PDVSA’s 955,000-barrel-a-day Paraguana
complex, which shut twice since February, is processing about
352,000 barrels a day, according to a company statement. The
refinery has been operating at reduced rates since an August
explosion.  “It’s not that we’ll see runs increase but they won’t fall
off as much,” said Barber, who is based in  Boston . “That
should keep a steady flow of exports to Latin America.”  Shipping Rates  Booking rates for the voyage rallied to 86.43 Worldscale
points yesterday from 60.54 March 20 as demand for cargoes to
service the U.S. Gulf Coast increased, according to George P. Los, shipping analyst with Charles R. Weber Co. They fell to
60.54 on March 20, the lowest since Sept. 13, 2012.  The Worldscale points indicate what percentage of a
dollars-a-ton flat rate set for various shipping routes once a
year by the Worldscale Association that traders booking tankers
are paying.  “The activity strength can be attributed to the fact that
the Gulf Coast refineries are preparing for an end to a strong
seasonal maintenance period,” said Los, who is based in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut .  The fixture of medium-range tankers in the Gulf rose to 28
last week from 16 in the week-earlier period, a weekly report
from the company showed. Nine ships were bound for points in
Europe, while eight headed for Latin America and five were sent
to the Caribbean, according to the report.  “Shipping is still relatively inexpensive,” said Bill Day, a San Antonio, Texas-based spokesman for  Valero (VLO)  Energy
Corp. “Keep in mind that the U.S. has been importing much less
crude oil and refined product in recent months, so there are
ships available. Valero watches the arbs closely.”  The European turnaround season is “definitely a good
sign,” said Barber. “The capacity to produce diesel is huge
now on the Gulf and Europe is always short. It creates a bigger
export market and it’s a strategic move for Gulf refiners.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in  New York  at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  