-- Duke Assistant Collins Named Basketball Coach at Northwestern
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-03-28T13:01:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/duke-assistant-collins-named-basketball-coach-at-northwestern.html
Chris Collins became the second
former Duke University basketball player to land a college head
coaching job this week, taking over at  Northwestern University .  One day after former teammate Bobby Hurley became coach at
the University of Buffalo, Collins was hired to replace Bill Carmody at Northwestern, the school said yesterday on its
 website .  Collins, who will become the 24th head coach of the
Wildcats, will remain with Duke as an assistant to coach Mike
Krzyzewski until the end of the Blue Devils’ season. Duke plays
Michigan State in the National Collegiate Athletic Association
tournament’s round of 16 tomorrow.  “Northwestern University is a special place that strives
for excellence in every regard, and our program will be no
different,” Collins said in a statement. “I can’t possibly
thank Coach Krzyzewski and Duke University enough for preparing
me for this day.”  Collins is a native of Northbrook, Illinois, which is about
10 miles from Evanston, Illinois-based Northwestern.  Collins, 38, the son of former National Basketball
Association player and current Philadelphia 76ers coach Doug Collins, graduated from Duke in 1996.  After playing professionally in Finland for two years,
Collins spent a season as an assistant for the Detroit Shock of
the Women’s National Basketball Association. He then became an
assistant at Seton Hall for two years under another former Duke
player, Tommy Amaker, who now coaches at Harvard.  Duke Titles  Collins joined Duke’s coaching staff in 2000 and was
promoted to associate head coach in 2008. The Blue Devils won
national titles during his tenure in 2001 and 2010.  Hurley, who was a senior on Duke’s basketball team when
Collins was a freshman, two days ago was given his first head
coaching position at Buffalo. He had been an associate head
coach at Rhode Island.  Carmody was fired March 16 after 13 years at Northwestern.
The Wildcats went 192-210 under Carmody, posting a 13-19 record
this season. He moved to Northwestern in 2000 after four years
as Princeton’s coach.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  