-- The BRICS Expose the West’s Hypocrisy
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2013-03-28T21:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/the-brics-expose-the-west-s-hypocrisy.html
Who do they think they are, these
upstart economies, Brazil, Russia, India, China and  South
Africa ?  That might sum up the feeling in the U.S., Europe and Japan
as the BRICS nations consider a new  development bank  that might
challenge the  World Bank  and  International Monetary Fund . The
move brings to mind Alice Amsden, the  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology  economist who died last year, and her 2001 book,
“The Rise of ‘the Rest.’”  The richest nations can stew about this turn of events, as
those on the periphery of the world economic system start seeing
themselves as the core. Or developed countries can look in the
mirror and consider how their actions have helped accelerate the
shift.  Take Japan’s success in weakening the yen 17 percent in the
past six months to help stimulate exports. It has prompted talk
in  China  and elsewhere about a return to the currency wars.
Concern about exchange-rate volatility that undermines trade and
growth is a big reason the BRICS, the vanguard of “the rest,”
want to use their combined $4.4 trillion of foreign-currency
reserves to protect their economies and raise their
international clout.  The yen’s plunge coincides with the contortions of the IMF
as it twists every which way, and then some, to preserve the
euro. Never mind that the  euro zone  may be too messy and
incompatible to save. Forget that Cyprus never should have been
included in the enterprise, or that Spain’s 50 percent youth-
unemployment rate makes the euro area’s fourth-biggest economy a
potential time bomb. The IMF, run by former French Finance
Minister  Christine Lagarde , is determined to make the
unsustainable in Europe sustainable.  Perception Problem  That has created a bigger perception problem than the IMF
and World Bank realize. If you are a world leader, such as  Dilma Rousseff  of Brazil,  Vladimir Putin  of Russia,  Manmohan Singh  of
India, Xi Jinping of China or  Jacob Zuma  of South Africa, do you
want to support such a euro-centric arrangement? Is our Bretton
Woods-derived system, one forged in the middle of the last
century, really in the best interest of five still-developing
nations with 43 percent of the world’s population? Will the IMF
have anything left if, say, India experiences a crisis?  It hasn’t escaped notice that  Europe  is being treated very
differently from Asia in 1997. Back then, the IMF browbeat Asia
into harsh reforms that deepened its crisis. It demanded higher
 interest rates , stronger currencies and fiscal tightening while
forcing Thailand, Indonesia and South Korea to let weak banks
 fail . When Malaysia imposed  capital controls , it was demonized.
Europe has gotten a pass on all of the above.  The same happened when  Wall Street  crashed a decade later.
The U.S. Treasury Department stood by as regulators, banks and
corporate leaders eschewed virtually every prescription it made
to policy makers in Asia, Latin America and eastern Europe. That
includes crony capitalism, as top bankers shift into senior
roles in the federal government only to rotate back to Wall
Street a few years later. As a remedy,  Richard Fisher , the
president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, has long
recommended breaking up too-big-to-fail banks.  Why isn’t the IMF demanding as much from the Obama
administration? Why is the IMF always backing bailouts of a
Greek economy that has learned nothing from its failings? How
come Cyprus, with an economy about the size of Vermont’s, has
Lagarde’s undivided attention in a world awash in financial and
political risks? Shouldn’t Group of Seven nations chastise
Japan’s yen policies or Europe’s denial about the magnitude of
its troubles? You can see why the BRICS want their own IMF, an
institution that supports economies without the hypocrisy.  China First  True, Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa are a
long way from the viable economic bloc its members advertise.
When investors talk about the BRICS, they often mean China’s
cash and voracious appetite for the commodities of the others.
Their political systems and economic philosophies are as wildly
divergent as their immediate needs as nations.  That hasn’t stopped members from taking an acronym coined
by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economist  Jim O’Neill  so seriously
that they are on their fifth summit meeting. Nor did it stop
them from adding a fifth member. Oddly, it was South Africa,
not, say, Indonesia or South Korea, both of which have much
bigger economies.  Yet as these key emerging economies strike out on their
own, rich nations bear some of the blame. Officials in the U.S.,
Europe and Japan talk a great game of rebalancing the global
economy; of increasing the developing world’s say in decision
making; of letting markets decide exchange rates; of lowering
barriers to  trade  and capital; and of greater transparency. And
then, at least since 2007, they more often than not played by
other rules.  Trust is earned, even when your economy is among those that
powered global growth for much of the last century. If G-7
members want today’s upstarts to join them in the spirit of
future prosperity, they must radiate sincerity. The BRICS must
believe that the world’s economic mechanisms work for them. If
not, those among “the rest” will create their own space.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  