-- Earliest Calculations of GDP Had Some Unexpected Results
-- B y   J a n e   G l e e s o n - W h i t e
-- 2013-03-28T18:42:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/earliest-calculations-of-gdp-had-some-unexpected-results.html
Early this morning, Commerce
Department officials released the latest figures for U.S. gross
domestic product, which showed that fourth-quarter growth was
somewhat faster than previously estimated.  Such announcements tend to be eagerly awaited. GDP aims to
compress an entire economy into a single number, putting a price
on the total amount of goods and services a nation produces.
Governments, markets, pundits and investors all count on this
singular, miraculous figure to offer some indication of whether
things are getting better or worse.  The extent of GDP’s power can be gauged by the elaborate
ritual that has evolved in  Washington  around its official
announcement. Twelve times a year, Steve Landefeld, the director
of the Bureau of Economic Analysis, and his team lock themselves
up without access to phones or the Internet, draw the curtains,
and carry out a task that has been refined over 50 years. They
have one goal in mind: to arrive at a single number through the
convergence of about 10,000 data streams from recent economic
activity, including harvests, construction and retail sales.  Once determined, the number is noted in a press release,
which is locked away. A single copy is delivered to the
president’s Council of Economic Advisers. So powerful is this
figure that no one may utter it before the official revelation;
its premature release could rock global markets. Only at 8:30
a.m. the next day is it officially released.  Calculating Income  GDP, as we know it, is younger than Alan Greenspan, but the
idea of measuring national income was first conceived 350 years
ago by English polymath William Petty. During a career in
medicine, music and politics, Petty made the first quantitative
analysis of the national income and wealth of  England .  With England at war with the Dutch Republic, Petty, a
wealthy landowner, feared that taxes on land would be increased.
In his “Verbum Sapienti” (“A Word to the Wise”) in 1664, Petty
demonstrated that, contrary to common belief, land produced only
a small portion of England’s national income -- and landowners,
therefore, made up only a small part of the potential tax base.
By estimating the wealth and national expenditure of England and
 Wales , Petty found there was a much larger, and as yet untapped,
source of income to be taxed: labor. His analysis showed that
labor produced three times more income than land.  This was the first quantitative analysis in economics, a
discipline that wouldn’t officially emerge for 100 years. Petty
wrote of his approach: “The method I take to do this, is not yet
very usual; for instead of using only comparative and
superlative words, and intellectual arguments, I have taken the
course (as a specimen of the Political Arithmetic I have long
aimed at) to express myself in terms of number, weight and
measure.”  It took more than 250 years, the Wall Street Crash of 1929,
and a worldwide depression for economists to fully appreciate
Petty’s quantitative approach to national income. The first to
investigate the concept comprehensively was John Maynard Keynes,
in “The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money,” in
1936. Meanwhile, Presidents Herbert Hoover and Franklin D. Roosevelt had commissioned the economist Simon Kuznets to
develop estimates of U.S. income to guide their policy responses
to the Great Depression.  Kuznets’s “National Income, 1929-1932,” was the first
comprehensive measure of national income and output. His
accounts, a set of industry-by-industry estimates, allowed
Roosevelt to describe the performance of the U.S. economy in his
budget request to Congress.  War Economics  World War II gave further impetus to the development of
national accounts. The government needed to assess the effects
of moving from peacetime consumer spending to federal spending
on war. This early measure evolved into the gross national
product (or GNP), a term Kuznets invented, which later became
GDP.  Across the Atlantic, the war gave Keynes the chance to
persuade the British government to implement his theory, arguing
that it could be applied to managing the risk of inflation
incurred by war. To apply it required national-income
statistics. By early 1941, the U.K., too, had a set of national
accounts.  Despite Keynes’s belief that these were emergency measures
only, for use in war or depression, the postwar rise of
organizations such as the World Bank and the International
Monetary Fund made these measures essential for most countries.
The success of Kuznets and others in developing national-income
accounting was described by the economists Paul A. Samuelson and
William D. Nordhaus as “truly among the great inventions of the
20th century.”  In the 21st century, however, GDP accounts are in some ways
wanting. Driven by concern for the environment, some economists
are reconsidering the productive power of land -- or nature.
Echoing Petty’s discovery about the value of labor, a 1997 study
by professor Robert Costanza  estimated  that nature provides
goods and services worth trillions of dollars annually to the
world economy.  Current GDP measures only account for legal transactions in
the money economy, not stocks of wealth or unpaid work.
Rainforests felled for timber boost GDP, but an intact
rainforest counts for nothing, despite the work it does
absorbing carbon dioxide and sustaining the water cycle. We are
beginning to feel the costs of such omissions.  In 2012, the United Nations adopted a new international
standard to give “natural capital” equal status to GDP. Just as
GDP emerged during the 1930s in response to great crises, so
alternate measures are now being developed in response to the
environmental crisis. Deciding what to include in national
accounts by definition requires some judgment calls. So take the
latest GDP figure for what it is: a human construct, not a
comprehensive -- or fully objective -- measurement.  (Jane Gleeson-White is the author of “Double Entry: How the
Merchants of Venice Created Modern Finance.” The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this post: Jane Gleeson-White at
 janegleesonwhite@iprimus.com.au   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  