-- Eaton Vance Files to Start Active ETFs Using New Model
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-03-28T16:26:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/eaton-vance-files-to-start-active-etfs-using-new-model-1-.html
Eaton Vance Corp. (EV)  asked U.S.
regulators for permission to start a series of actively managed
exchange-traded funds that wouldn’t disclose their holdings
daily.  Eaton Vance  filed  with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission to open what it calls exchange-traded managed funds,
or ETMFs, the Boston-based company said today in a statement.
The funds would mirror existing Eaton Vance mutual funds and the
firm seeks to license the model to other fund providers,
according to the statement.  Active ETFs typically combine the security selection of a
fund manager with the intra-day trading and cost-saving
characteristics of ETFs. Companies interested in that hybrid
have so far been largely discouraged from opening products,
especially those focused on equities, by the SEC’s requirement
for daily disclosure of ETFs holdings. Active ETFs in the U.S.
hold $12.3 billion, less than 1 percent of assets in the $1.4
trillion ETF industry, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “By removing the requirement for daily portfolio
transparency, ETMFs can enable investors to access a broad range
of active strategies through a vehicle that provides the
investor benefits of an exchange-traded fund,” Eaton Vance said
in the statement.  Eaton Vance, the manager best known for selling products
designed to minimize taxes, managed about $248 billion in assets
as of Jan. 31.  Daily Disclosure  The disclosure of holdings enables market makers to execute
arbitrage trades that keep an ETF’s share price in line with the
underlying value of its assets. Eaton Vance’s model would use
so-called net-asset-value-based trading that would allow that
process to take place without full disclosure of holdings.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest money manager, asked
the SEC in September 2011 for permission to open active ETFs
that wouldn’t reveal holdings daily. It hasn’t yet received
approval.  Companies have said they fear the mandatory transparency of
ETFs makes it too easy for opportunistic traders to jump in
ahead of transactions made by an active manager, allowing those
traders to benefit from resulting price changes, a tactic known
as front-running. Most ETFs are passively managed, with their
holdings mimicking indexes.  That concern isn’t as pronounced on the fixed-income side,
where the opacity and negotiated nature of transactions in the
over-the-counter bond market protect managers. Pacific
Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  has gathered $4.3 billion
in 13 months into the  ETF version  of his Pimco Total Return
Fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  