-- EBay 2015 Sales Forecast Tops Analyst Estimates Amid Mobile Push
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2013-03-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/ebay-expects-110-billion-in-merchandise-volume-by-2015-1-.html
  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  forecast 2015 sales that
topped analysts’ estimates and said it expects the total volume
of merchandise sold in its marketplace to reach $110 billion by
that year as the online retailer adds users and mobile tools.  Revenue in 2015 will be $21.5 billion to $23.5 billion, the
company said yesterday at a meeting with analysts in  San Jose ,
 California . Analysts on average had estimated sales of $21.4
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  John Donahoe  is adding features,
including mobile applications and a local-shopping tool unveiled
yesterday, to maintain a turnaround effort that has helped boost
shares 75 percent since he took the helm from  Meg Whitman  in
2008. He’s aiming to sustain the pace of sales growth -- 21
percent last year -- and keep EBay relevant as it competes with
the largest Web retailer,  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)   “Investors want to know that there is a road map for
strong growth, and management is delivering that message,” said
 Colin Sebastian , an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. “They are
laying out multiple incremental growth opportunities, including
local commerce, global expansion and, of course, mobile.”  The shares rose 4.1 percent to $54.22 at yesterday’s close
in  New York . The stock has advanced 6.3 percent this year,
compared with a 10 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index.  Developing Markets  By the end of 2015, 25 percent of users will be in
developing regions, EBay said yesterday. As part of a push into
new markets, the company said it debuted a Russian-language site
two weeks ago. The country posted a 75 percent surge in EBay
users last year.  “We are spending aggressively,” said Wendy Jones, vice
president of geographic expansion and cross-border trade.
“First priority is  Russia  -- it’s a big market, but it’s super-
fragmented, and we were already the market leader. We have some
wind in our sails in a very fragmented market. So we believe we
have a window of opportunity.”  EBay has split  emerging markets , including  China , Russia
and  Latin America , into a separate division and has begun by
working on a localized approach to Russia, starting with the new
native-language site. The next step is sifting through
fragmented shipping carriers and improving logistics, Jones
said.  Social Features  As it seeks new ways to lure members and sellers, EBay said
that it’s building social features, such as one to help users
find items for sale in a local neighborhood.  “Online commerce will not devour offline retail, but it
will transform how we shop,” Donahoe said at the meeting.
“Smart retailers are innovating. They’re reinventing and
reimagining the store and what it means to shop.”  EBay’s local retail tracker comes as stores are
increasingly turning to social-networking services like  Facebook
Inc. (FB)  and Pinterest Inc. to promote brands and sell merchandise.
Last year, EBay redesigned its homepage, adding a feature to
show users products based on their personal information and
purchasing history.  The company is also working on curating more content -- an
approach that will let users follow themes, like
“fashionista,” that will show relevant merchandise aggregated
by an algorithm. EBay’s site, which already cultivates
communities with similar interests -- auto enthusiasts and
antique collectors, for example -- naturally facilitates social
commerce, Donahoe said.  ‘Personalized Experience’  “There’s going to be an enormous jump around giving a
consumer a more engaging, personalized experience,” Donahoe
said in an interview. “We are absolutely focused on innovating
and experimenting -- it’s a natural place for EBay to thrive.”  With users accustomed to commenting on pictures, Facebook
and Pinterest have given companies ways to garner instant
feedback for specific items. That lets them forecast production
and design based on users’ requests -- something that hasn’t
typically occurred on EBay.  EBay has made a push during the past three years to make
the site accessible across all devices. That means more
purchases are happening on smartphones and tablets. About 25
percent of users on EBay’s PayPal service are accessing the
product via mobile devices, the company said. Payment volume for
PayPal is forecast to double in the next three years, EBay said.  EBay expects to enable $300 billion in commerce volume by
2015, up from more than $175 billion last year.  “We’re moving from a business that’s dominated by a
desktop-based act to a truly ubiquitous presence -- anytime,
anywhere, any device,” Devin Wenig, president of EBay
Marketplaces, said at the meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  