-- ECB Should Consider Measures From Rate Guidance to QE, OECD Says
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-03-28T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/ecb-should-consider-measures-from-rate-guidance-to-qe-oecd-says.html
The  European Central Bank  should
consider giving more forward guidance and look at quantitative
easing in an effort to revive euro-area growth, the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development said.  “There is a strong case to ease monetary policy further,
given weak demand and inflation well below the ECB’s
objective,” the Paris-based organization said in a report
today. “More specific forward guidance could be given by the
ECB. Further thought should be given to how to expand
quantitative easing.”  ECB policy makers gather next week in  Frankfurt  to consider
their options in the face of a  recession  in the 17-nation
currency bloc. The bank’s benchmark refinancing rate has been on
 hold  at 0.75 percent since July last year.  “There is space for more traditional monetary policy
because the rate can be lowered,” OECD Chief Economist Pier Carlo Padoan said in an interview. “We see no inflation risks
coming up and we see the need to use monetary policy to support
the economy.”  The euro area is the weakest among the world’s major
economies, according to the OECD’s Interim Assessment published
today. The combined economies of the bloc’s three Group of Seven
nations will expand an annualized 0.4 percent in the first three
months and 1 percent in the second quarter.  Growth of 2.3 percent and 2.6 percent in  Germany  will mask
contractions of 1.6 percent and 1 percent in  Italy .  France  will
shrink 0.6 percent in the first quarter before expanding 0.5
percent in the second, the OECD said.  ‘Moderate Growth’  That compares with annualized growth of 3.5 percent and 2
percent in the U.S., as well as 3.2 percent and 2.2 percent in
 Japan .  “The outlook for the first half of 2013 is for a return to
moderate growth in the U.S. and an acceleration from low levels
in Japan,” according to the report. “In  Europe , meaningful
recovery is likely to take somewhat longer.”  Expansions in the U.K. and  Canada  will be 0.5 percent and
1.4 percent and 1.1 percent and 1.9 percent in the two quarters,
respectively, according to OECD estimates.  The divergence means that the U.S. Federal Reserve probably
needs to cut back on monetary support in the near future, the
OECD said. The Fed decided this month to press on with purchases
of long-term debt known as quantitative easing that have
ballooned the Fed’s  balance sheet  to a record $3.21 trillion.  Quantitative Easing  On March 20, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  provided a
clearer road map than ever before on what’s needed before the
Fed trims its purchases, while avoiding any hint that a
reduction in $85 billion in monthly bond buying is imminent. The
central bank will adjust buying in a “sensitive way” based on
several measures, including payrolls, wages and jobless claims,
he said.  “Quantitative easing comes at a cost and the costs are
well known,” Padoan said. “They are a misallocation of
resources. We are beginning to see excess risk-taking coming up
here and there, notably in corporate bond spreads.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  