-- Leeds United Owner Sells 10% Stake to Bahrain-Based Bank
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-03-28T12:41:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/leeds-united-owner-sells-10-stake-in-club-to-bahrain-based-bank.html
Leeds United’s owner, GFH Capital,
sold a 10 percent stake in the three-time English soccer
champion to Bahrain-based International Investment Bank.  GFH Capital said it’s the first move in a long-term plan to
bring “strategic investors” into the ownership of the team.
IIB Chief Executive Officer Aabed Al-Zeera will join the board
of the club’s holding company, the team announced  on its
website . It didn’t give financial details of the transaction.  The stake sale follows speculation over the future
ownership of the club after conflicting statements from GFH
Capital and its parent company over whether it would be sold.  David Haigh, deputy chief executive officer of GFH Capital,
told the website that “the introduction of IIB is in keeping
with what have always been GFH Capital’s aims for the
successful, sustainable and long-term ownership of Leeds United
FC.”  “We believe that a consortium of like-minded investors
provides the best ownership model for a club which belongs among
the elite of English football clubs and global sporting
brands,” he said.  Leeds said other investors are expected to join as Dubai-
based GFH Capital creates an ownership structure to provide
“sound long-term finance” for a return to the Premier League.  “We are delighted to become investors in Leeds United and
would like to thank GFH Capital for facilitating this for us.”
Al-Zeera said.  Private Equity  International Investment Bank BSC was incorporated as an
Islamic investment bank in October 2003, it says  on its website .  Its core activities include “investment, underwriting and
placement in real estate and private equity in conformity with
Islamic Shariah.”  Yesterday, Bahrain’s stock exchange said the Gulf-based
owner of Leeds hadn’t explained conflicting statements made
about a possible sale of the club, now in England’s second tier.  GFH Capital, which bought Leeds less than four months ago,
said last week it was seeking “investment in part of its
share,” although not a full sale. GFH’s parent,  Gulf Finance
House EC (GFH) , said in its 2012 financial statement released in
February it was looking to sell the club within 12 months after
securing it as a “bargain purchase.”  Leeds had success more than a decade ago, reaching the
semifinals of Europe’s elite Champions League in 2001. The team
stumbled into financial crisis by overspending on players, and
dropped out of the Premier League in 2004. After falling into
the third division and spending time in bankruptcy protection,
Leeds is now 10th in the Championship, seven points below the
playoff positions for a spot in the Premier League.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  