-- Telefonica Tops America Movil in Mexico Quality Study
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-03-28T17:43:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/telefonica-tops-america-movil-in-mexico-quality-study.html
Telefonica SA (TEF)  beat  Carlos Slim ’s
 America Movil  SAB on its home turf in a study by the nation’s
phone regulator of the quality of  Mexico  City wireless voice and
Internet connections.  Telefonica, based in  Madrid , dropped fewer calls and left
Internet sessions hanging less frequently than the city’s other
three mobile-phone carriers in an evaluation between Jan. 31 and
March 1, the Federal Telecommunications Commission, known as
Cofetel, said today in a  statement . Mexico City-based America
Movil was second in 3G voice calls and last in Internet quality.  The results in Mexico’s largest market, representing almost
one-fifth of the nation’s population, put more pressure on
America Movil to invest to improve its network. Lawmakers are
pushing through a plan to increase competition for the carrier,
which has 70 percent of Mexico’s mobile-phone lines.  “Telefonica keeps investing in Mexico to achieve better
network quality for our clients,” the company said in an e-
mailed statement. “Cofetel’s results once again show our
commitment to Mexico.”  America Movil budgeted about 32.5 billion pesos ($2.6
billion) last year to improve its Mexican phone networks and
acquire more capacity for mobile services. That represented
about 12 percent of its Mexico  revenue . Telefonica planned to
spend 7 billion pesos on Mexican infrastructure last year, or
about 25 percent of revenue.  Dropped Calls  In Cofetel’s study, Telefonica dropped 0.27 percent of
calls on its second-generation, or 2G, network and 0.34 percent
on its 3G network. America Movil’s rates were 1.63 percent and
0.75 percent. Grupo Iusacell SA’s Iusacell service dropped calls
1.43 percent of the time on 2G and 2.18 percent on 3G, while the
rates for its Unefon brand were 1.02 percent and 2.96 percent.  Telefonica failed to establish an Internet connection 3.5
percent of the time, compared to 3.33 percent for Iusacell, 3.5
percent for Unefon and 16.5 percent for America Movil. Once an
Internet connection was established, it was interrupted 0.17
percent of the time for Telefonica, 2.2 percent for America
Movil, 4.83 percent for Iusacell and 6.39 percent for Unefon.  Dan McCosh, a spokesman for Iusacell, declined to comment.
America Movil press representatives didn’t immediately respond
to e-mail messages. Businesses are closed today in Mexico for a
holiday.  Cofetel  said the voice study had a 95 percent degree of
confidence with a margin of error of 0.965 percent or less. For
Internet, the margin of error was 1.365 percent or less.  The study was a first for Cofetel under a plan it
established last year to more closely monitor mobile-phone
quality. The agency would be replaced under the new
telecommunications law, which is awaiting Senate approval after
passing the lower house of Congress last week. The new
regulator, the Federal Telecommunications Institute, would have
the power to fine companies for violating rules governing
quality, a power that Cofetel lacks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in  New York  at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  