-- Telkom Gets Ex-Vodacom South Africa Head Sipho Maseko as CEO
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S p i l l a n e   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-03-28T13:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/telkom-names-ex-vodacom-south-africa-head-sipho-maseko-as-ceo.html
Telkom  South Africa  Ltd. has named
Sipho Maseko, the former chief operating officer of  Vodacom
Group Ltd. (VOD) , its new chief executive officer as the company looks
for new growth amid increased competition in South Africa.  Maseko will start work on April 1, the Pretoria, South
Africa-based company said in a statement. Telkom, the
continent’s biggest fixed-line operator, also named Brian Armstrong, the head of its business unit, as chief operating
officer to replace the departing Nombulelo Moholi.  Maseko left Vodacom, which is controlled by Newbury, U.K.-
based  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and is the biggest wireless company in
South Africa, last June. His challenge will be to turn around
Telkom’s business in its home country, which has contributed to
three consecutive years of declining revenue. The company must
also find the resources to fulfill a mandate to roll out
broadband infrastructure to all citizens by 2019.  Shares in Telkom rose almost 4 percent to 14.75 rand by
2:46 p.m. in Johannesburg, paring 2013 declines to 12 percent.
The company, almost 40 percent owned by the South African
government, is valued at around 7.7 billion rand ($760 million).  ‘Tough Environment’  “It’s interesting because it’s an appointment from a
cellular environment and fixed line is a very tricky business to
get right,” Bruce Main, a  fund manager  at Ivy Asset Management
Ltd, said by phone. “The new CEO has got a long road to walk.
It’s a very tough environment.”  Telkom’s fixed-line traffic, measured in millions of
minutes, dropped 70 percent from September 2003 to September
2011, according to Bloomberg calculations from Telkom earnings
statements, while the number of fixed lines declined 15 percent.  Vodacom and  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) , the nation’s largest mobile-
phone operators, were in 2011 growing data revenue three times
faster than Telkom, which in 2010 started its 8ta mobile-phone
unit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  