-- Emarketer Boosts Yahoo Revenue Estimate as Ad Gains Seen
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-03-28T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/emarketer-boosts-yahoo-revenue-estimate-as-ad-gains-seen.html
EMarketer Inc. raised its forecast
for  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) ’s sales this year as renewed interest among
advertisers in the largest U.S. Web portal slows market share
losses to  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Facebook Inc. (FB)   Yahoo’s U.S. advertising sales are projected to climb 3.2
percent to $3.18 billion in 2013, according to the New York-
based researcher. That’s higher than the previous 2.2 percent
growth rate estimated by EMarketer in August.  The uptick in Yahoo’s ad-revenue estimate is a sign that
Chief Executive Officer  Marissa Mayer  is luring back marketers
after ceding ground to hotter Web properties. The website’s U.S.
ad sales rose 3.2 percent last year, after declining 8.4 percent
in 2011. EMarketer, which compiles data from researchers and
investment banks for its forecasts, said it hadn’t increased its
estimates for Yahoo in more than a year.  “A 1 to 2 percent jump in expectations may not be as
significant for a company growing as fast as Facebook or a
company like Google,” Clark Fredricksen, vice president at
EMarketer, said in an interview. “For a company that is trying
to show it is turning itself around, there are signals that
indicate Yahoo may be more than stopping the bleeding.”  Still, Yahoo will continue to lose ground in its core
business of display advertising, where revenue will rise 1
percent, compared with the 2.2 percent growth predicted earlier,
EMarketer said.  Yahoo’s share of the U.S. display-ad market will shrink to
7.7 percent this year, from 9 percent in 2012, EMarketer said.
Google’s stake will rise to 18 percent from 15 percent, while
Facebook will expand to 16 percent from 15 percent, according to
the researcher’s estimates.  Display-Ad Challenge  EMarketer lowered its projection for Yahoo’s display-ad
revenue in part because of changes Mayer made to the website
since she was hired last July, Fredricksen said. For example, a
revamp of its online e-mail service in December stripped out
some advertising in order to make it easier for users to get to
their inboxes. Over time, such changes will probably let Yahoo
charge higher rates for ads elsewhere on the site, Fredricksen
said.  “Yahoo is trying to cut out the clutter,” he said. “They
are trying to develop more premium inventory.”  In online search, an area where Mayer has said she hopes to
regain share, Yahoo’s search-ad revenue will increase 7 percent
in 2013, compared with EMarketer’s previous prediction for 6.1
percent.  In terms of search-market share, Yahoo will claim 6.2
percent this year, down from 6.5 percent in 2012. Google is
projected to remain the dominant search engine, with 74 percent,
while Microsoft has 9.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  New York  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  