-- Emerging-Market Stocks Cap Worst First Quarter Since ’08
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-03-28T21:43:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/emerging-stocks-head-for-worst-first-quarter-since-2008-on-china.html
Emerging stocks capped their
biggest first-quarter slump since 2008 as China’s new
restrictions on wealth-management products spurred concern about
the outlook for the nation’s economy and bank earnings.  China Minsheng Banking Corp. (1988)  plunged the most since October
2011 in Hong Kong, while  Brilliance China Automotive Holdings
Ltd. (1114)  dropped 11 percent as profit missed analysts’ estimates.
OAO Gazprom, Russia’s gas export monopoly, declined the most in
six weeks. Brazil’s Bovespa index posted its worst start to a
year since 1995 as billionaire  Eike Batista ’s companies slumped,
leading a tumble in commodity producers.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index rose 0.1 percent to
1,032.62 in New York, paring its quarterly decline to 2.1
percent. China’s regulator told lenders today to limit
investments of client funds in credit assets that aren’t
publicly traded. Separately, the State Council said yesterday
that it will take steps this year to loosen state control over
interest rates and the  yuan  in a bid to sustain growth.  “It’s a potential headwind,” said Walter ‘Bucky’ Hellwig,
who helps manage $17 billion of assets at BB&T Wealth Management
in Birmingham, Alabama. He spoke in a phone interview. “Any
disappointment or anticipation of a slowdown of growth in China
is certainly unwelcome in the emerging markets.”  Gains in the U.S. market helped lift emerging stocks today
as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose to a record. Cyprus
lenders opened for the first time in almost two weeks, with new
rules curbing access to cash preventing an initial panic to
withdraw deposits.  Commodity Shares  Energy shares in MSCI Emerging Markets Index dropped the
most among  10 groups . The broader gauge has slipped 2.1 percent
this year, trailing a 7.2 percent gain in the MSCI World Index
of developed-country stocks. The emerging-markets measure trades
at 10.9 times 12-month  projected  profit, compared with the MSCI
World’s 14.2, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets exchange-traded fund rose
0.2 percent to $42.77. The Chicago Board Options Exchange
Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of options
prices on the fund and expectations of price swings, rose 0.5
percent to 16.72.  Brazil’s Bovespa rose 0.6 percent as Centrais Eletricas
Brasileiras SA, Brazil’s biggest power utility by sales, surged
the most in four months after announcing dividend payments and a
plan to return to profitability. The shares jumped 16 percent,
the biggest gain in the emerging-market gauge.  Biggest Losses  The Bovespa dropped about 7.5 percent from January through
March, the biggest first-quarter drop since a 32 percent plunge
at the beginning of 1995. Batista’s iron-ore producer MMX
Mineracao & Metalicos SA and oil company OGX Petroleo & Gas
Participacoes SA were the biggest losers, falling more than 47
percent.  Russian shares rose for a second day, sending the Micex
Index up 0.6 percent. VTB Group, Russia’s second-largest lender,
climbed 3.2 percent after Kommersant reported its management
will propose paying 15 percent of net income as dividends for
2012.  Gazprom (GAZP)  slumped 2.2 percent. The state-run company said
late yesterday that 2012 net income dropped 37 percent, based on
local accounting standards.  Turkey’s  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  rallied 1.3 percent to the
highest level since Jan. 24. S&P raised Turkey’s long-term
foreign currency credit rating, according to a statement
released after the market closed yesterday. Benchmark gauges in
Poland and Hungary retreated.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  sank 2.8 percent, the most in
three weeks, erasing its gain for the quarter. Hong Kong’s Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index lost 1.3 percent. China Minsheng
plunged 7.9 percent in Hong Kong. Brilliance China Automotive
fell the most since 2011 for the biggest decline in the  MSCI
Emerging Markets Index. (MXEF)   The extra yield investors demand to own developing-nation
dollar debt over U.S. Treasuries fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 306, according to the JPMorgan Chase & Co.
EMBI Global Index.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  