-- Lessons of Avoidance From Gramm’s ‘Pac-Man’ Budget Sequestration
-- B y   B r e n d a n   G r e e l e y
-- 2013-03-28T22:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/lessons-of-avoidance-from-gramm-s-pac-man-budget-sequestration.html
In 1979, with a bill to lift the
debt ceiling moving through Congress, Phil Gramm, a first-term
House Democrat from Texas, proposed an amendment that would
require a balanced budget.  The amendment failed, yet Gramm didn’t give up.  He became a Republican, then a senator. And in 1985
President Ronald Reagan signed the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Act,
forcing  Washington  to either cut the deficit to zero within five
years or face painful automatic cuts to discretionary spending,
called “sequestration.”  It was the country’s first sequestration, and “no one
wanted it to happen,” recalls Wendel Primus, a senior policy
adviser to House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, the California
Democrat who was a House Democratic staffer at the time.  Capitol Hill took to calling it an “automatic Pac-Man”
that would gobble up parts of the budget indiscriminately,
Primus says. These days, as Bloomberg Businessweek reports in
its March 29 edition, Primus and others credit Gramm’s idea for
ultimately bringing about the breakthrough budget deal of 1990,
when George H.W. Bush was president, to reduce the deficit by
$482 billion over five years.  “If politicians are going to catch hell no matter what
they do, they will normally do the right thing,” says Gramm,
now a partner with US Policy Metrics, a research firm for the
financial sector.  The stakes are higher today; the country’s debt compared
with the size of the economy is almost twice what it was in
1985. Still, if Gramm’s right, there’s hope the sequestration
that took effect on March 1 will also lead to a broad deal on
spending and taxes that reduces the deficit.  It just might take a while.  Professsor’s View  Before going into politics, Gramm taught economics at  Texas 
A&M University in College Station. As an academic he followed a
school of thought called “public choice,” which holds that
politicians aren’t motivated by their own beliefs, rather by the
desire to get re-elected. To public choice economists, this is a
simple truth, not a moral judgment.  The way they see it, it’s a waste of time to wish for
better politicians -- or to persuade the ones you have to do the
right thing just for the sake of it.  Once in Congress, Gramm saw that the appropriations process
was designed to cause deficits.  “I concluded that the average amendment was producing high
benefits per beneficiary,” he says, “but the cost was low,
because there are a lot of taxpayers.”  Pleasing Voters  Translation: Federal money for a hospital rewards the
congressional district that gets the hospital. Yet since the
cost is spread out over the entire country, the district pays
essentially nothing. Politicians wanted hospitals in their
districts because voters wanted them, and that caused deficits.  Gramm wanted better incentives for politicians not to
overspend. After his 1979 amendment failed, he tried again to
pass legislation requiring Congress to balance the budget in
1980. This time he attached the threat of a sequestration to the
measure. The idea was to make it too painful for lawmakers not
to get the books in order that year. The bill failed.  Five years later, Congress considered raising the federal
debt limit above $2 trillion for the first time (the debt is
$16.7 trillion now).  Gramm tried again with Senators Warren Rudman, a Republican
from New Hampshire, and Earnest Hollings, a South Carolina
Democrat. They made one crucial change: Instead of giving
lawmakers a year to cut the deficit, they gave them five.  To get it through the Republican-led Senate, Gramm agreed
to exclude Social Security. To satisfy the Democratic-run House,
he exempted Medicaid and some means-tested entitlement programs,
leaving only defense and non-defense discretionary spending at
risk of automatic cuts.  Unintended Consequences  Initially, sequestration didn’t work out as Gramm had
planned. A small set of cuts, about 5 percent, were triggered in
1986, but after that lawmakers found ways around the law.  They fended off the cuts planned for 1987 through onetime
asset sales and some accounting tricks, like shifting a military
payday that fell on the last day of one fiscal year to the first
day of the next. Then they rewrote the law and reset their
targets, avoiding a sequestration again.  By the end of 1989, Gramm-Rudman-Hollings had helped the
U.S. trim its discretionary spending by only $59 billion,
according to a 1992 paper for the Journal of Policy Analysis and
Management. Because the law didn’t apply to spending on the
major entitlement programs so cherished by voters, lawmakers
still had no real incentives to make major changes.  Avoiding Pain  “Any bright bunch of people that devise something for
Congress, another bunch of bright people will find a way around
it,” says John Ellwood, a public policy professor at the
University of California at Berkeley. He believes sequestration
will always fail, because Congress designs its own trap and can
always redesign it when it needs to.  Wriggling out of sequestration was no longer an option by
1990. It was designed to inflict even greater pain with each
passing year that Congress didn’t act. Even after rewrites and
evasions, lawmakers went from facing cuts of 5 percent in 1986
to 36 percent in 1990. The pain would have been too great.  “We could have rewritten it, we could have suspended it,”
says Primus, “but the feeling was that was not good.”  Instead, Congress and the White House moved their budget
talks to nearby Andrews Air Force Base for two weeks and
produced what had eluded them for so much time: a substantive
compromise on taxes and spending.  Call it the longest Pac-Man game of the 1980s.  “I never intended sequesters to be a way of governing year
after year,” says Gramm. If politicians have a convenient way
to avoid painful decisions, they’ll take it, he believes. Unless
there’s “hell” to pay.  By that logic, Washington will eventually come to a
compromise, but the roughly 10 percent in cuts brought on by the
2013 sequester are only the beginning.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Greeley in  New York  at 
 bgreeley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  