-- Ethanol Strengthens Versus Gasoline After U.S. Stockpiles Drop
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2013-03-28T15:36:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/ethanol-strengthens-versus-gasoline-after-u-s-stockpiles-drop.html
Ethanol’s discount to gasoline
narrowed after U.S. inventories of the biofuel dropped.  The spread, or price difference, shrank 0.89 cents to 52.36
cents a gallon at 11:06 a.m.  New York  time, one day after the
Energy Information Administration said  stockpiles  fell to the
lowest level since December 2011. Ethanol inventories, which
usually build this time of year, are on pace for the first drop
in the January-March quarter since the government began tracking
that data in June 2010.  “There is still some residual bullishness this morning
remaining from yesterday’s big draw in the DOE stocks,” said
Michael Breitenbach, an analyst and trader at Blue Ocean
Brokerage LLC in New York.  Denatured ethanol for April delivery slipped 1.8 cents, or
0.7 percent, to $2.565 a gallon on the Chicago Board of Trade.
Prices have risen 17 percent this year. The biofuel is up 0.8
percent this week and 6.7 percent this month.  Gasoline futures for April delivery dropped 2.69 cents, or
0.9 percent, to $3.0886 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . The contract covers reformulated gasoline, which is
made to be blended with ethanol before delivery to filling
stations.  Breitenbach said traders are also positioning themselves
before of the release of an Agriculture Department survey on
farmers’ planting expectations, expected at noon in  Washington .  Ethanol  production  has been battered in the wake of higher
output costs because of drought in the Midwest that baked corn
crops and sent prices for the grain to a record in August.  Corn for May delivery slumped 7.75 cents, or 1.1 percent,
to $7.275 a bushel in Chicago. One bushel makes at least 2.75
gallons of ethanol.  The corn crush spread, representing gains or losses from
turning corn into ethanol and based on May contracts, was minus
10 cents a gallon, unchanged from yesterday. The spread was more
than twice that at the beginning of the year.  The amount doesn’t include revenue from the sale of dried
distillers’ grains, a byproduct of ethanol production, which can
be fed to livestock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in  Chicago  at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  