-- MetroPCS Rises as T-Mobile Deal Rejected by Advisory Firm
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2013-03-28T21:08:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/metropcs-rises-as-t-mobile-deal-rejected-by-advisory-firm.html
MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS)  jumped
the most in two months after advisory firm  Institutional
Shareholder Services Inc.  urged investors to block its merger
with T-Mobile USA Inc., raising the prospect of a better offer.  ISS said it opposed the deal because of unfavorable terms
and the potential for MetroPCS to thrive as an independent
company. MetroPCS could bolster its network by acquiring more
wireless airwaves and it may be the target of additional merger
offers in the future, the Rockville, Maryland-based firm said in
a report. Investors are slated to vote on the proposed
combination on April 12.  “The question remains, ‘Why now?’” ISS said. “Absent
merging with T-Mobile, PCS will still have $1.5 billion of cash
to dedicate to new spectrum in some way and could continue
operating as a stand-alone company.”  MetroPCS, based in Richardson,  Texas , rose 3.5 percent to
$10.90 at the close in  New York , the biggest increase since Jan.
10.  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , T-Mobile’s parent company, climbed 0.4
percent to 8.25 euros in  Frankfurt .  Shareholders are being asked to approve a reverse merger,
creating a publicly traded business that’s 74 percent owned by
Deutsche Telekom -- and that has $23.2 billion in debt,
including capital leases. Deutsche Telekom could improve its
chances by sweetening the offer, perhaps by cutting the new
company’s debt by several billion dollars, said Kevin Smithen,
an analyst at Macquarie Securities USA Inc. in New York.  “This would help the valuation of the new company,” said
Smithen, who has the equivalent of a buy rating on MetroPCS.  Still Convinced  To underscore the strength of the deal, MetroPCS pointed to
a report earlier this week from Egan-Jones Proxy Services that
endorsed the combination as the best strategic alternative for
the company. “We strongly believe that ISS’s report contains
material flaws and reaches the wrong conclusion,” MetroPCS said
in a statement today.  Deutsche Telekom remains convinced that the deal will
benefit both carriers’ shareholders and that it will be approved
on April 12, said Philipp Kornstaedt, a spokesman for the Bonn-
based company. He declined to say whether Deutsche Telekom may
offer improved terms to MetroPCS shareholders.  Beyond that possibility, MetroPCS may have few additional
options. The company said this week that no other bidders have
emerged willing to counter T-Mobile’s offer.  Paulson & Co. -- MetroPCS’s largest investor, with almost
10 percent of shares outstanding -- has come out against the
deal, as has smaller shareholder P. Schoenfeld Asset Management.
Madison Dearborn Partners LLC, the second-largest owner, is
backing the merger.  Shareholder Lawsuit  Another shareholder, Westchester Capital Management Inc.,
inserted itself in the fray today. Its  Merger Fund (MERFX)  filed suit
against MetroPCS, seeking a court order from a federal judge to
delay the April 12 vote. Westchester has a 3.3 percent stake in
MetroPCS, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The complexity of the proposal may prompt investors to rely
more heavily on shareholder-advisory firms, said  Michael Mahoney , senior managing director at Falcon Point Capital LLC in
 San Francisco .  “Because of the unique structure of this deal, ISS’s
decision is more important,” said Mahoney, who owns shares in
neither MetroPCS nor Deutsche Telekom.  ISS has held sway in high-profile takeover votes before. In
2002, the firm advocated for the $22.3 billion combination of
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and Compaq Computer Corp. The deal was
approved over the opposition of Hewlett-Packard board member
Walter Hewlett.  Glass Lewis  Glass, Lewis & Co. , another advisory firm, also is
preparing a report on the tie-up between T-Mobile and MetroPCS.
Its findings will be released as soon as today, said Jaron
Schneider, a spokesman for the San Francisco-based firm.  The proposal would unify the fourth- and fifth-largest U.S.
wireless carriers, and it represents a key part of Deutsche
Telekom’s effort to stage a U.S. comeback. Its T-Mobile division
ranks a distant No. 4 to  Verizon Wireless ,  AT&T (T)  Inc. and  Sprint
Nextel Corp. (S) , and it lost 2.1 million monthly contract
subscribers last year.  To bounce back, T-Mobile announced plans this week to offer
the iPhone for the first time and introduced new payment plans
that let customers avoid the industry’s typical long-term
contracts. At the event, T-Mobile’s combative chief executive
officer, John Legere, said he was sure the MetroPCS deal would
succeed and criticized the  hedge funds  opposing the plan.  ‘Greedy’ Funds  Legere said at the time that he had met with ISS and came
away confident about the merger’s prospects.  “It will be approved, despite the greedy hedge funds,”
said Legere, who joined Bellevue, Washington-based T-Mobile in
September. “I’m confident because it makes huge sense. And the
alternatives for MetroPCS are a bit fictitious.”  Still, critics have balked at the terms. Deutsche Telekom,
 Germany ’s largest phone company, would own almost three-quarters
of the new business after making a $1.5 billion cash payment to
MetroPCS shareholders. The German company also would loan $15
billion to the entity. The resulting level of debt -- and the
relatively high, 7 percent projected  interest rate  -- would be a
heavy burden, according to P. Schoenfeld Asset Management and
other opponents.  ‘Bad Deal’  “If anyone is being greedy here, it is Deutsche Telekom,”
Paulson & Co. said yesterday in a statement. “While we support
industry consolidation, the current proposal is a bad deal for
MetroPCS shareholders. We believe MetroPCS is worth more as a
stand-alone company.”  The way the deal is structured, the combined company would
be valued at $7 to $8 a share, said  Jonathan Chaplin , a New
York-based analyst at New Street Research.  MetroPCS could go it alone, though it’s increasingly
difficult to compete with the major carriers. Analysts estimate
that the company’s revenue will drop 1 percent to $5.07 billion
this year, while net income slides 36 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  MetroPCS’s board  approved the merger and has urged a yes
vote so the carrier can mount a stronger challenge to the top
carriers -- even if the new company would still be relatively
small. The combination would create a carrier with 42.3 million
customers, less than half the size of Verizon Wireless or AT&T.  The deal moved a step closer to completion on March 12,
when both the Federal Communications Commission and the
 Department of Justice  approved the transaction. The following
week, the Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S. signed off
on the arrangement.  MetroPCS’s combination with T-Mobile is a good idea in
principle, so long as the terms are right, said Smithen of
Macquarie. As for the ISS report, the firm’s advice may
influence investors who haven’t yet made up their minds, he
said.  “It might sway the undecided,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  