-- EU Bonus Rules, Aussie Bank Rate, Wal-Mart: Compliance
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n   a n d   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-03-28T12:37:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/eu-bonus-rules-aussie-bank-rate-wal-mart-compliance.html
The European Parliament may ease a
planned ban on fund-manager bonuses that top fixed pay if
investors get to vote on the larger awards, bringing the rules
closer into line with those approved yesterday by national
ambassadors on how much bankers can be compensated.  The parliament’s economic and monetary affairs committee
approved a ban last week on fund-manager bonuses higher than
salaries as well as curbs on performance fees in a 22-16 vote.
Legislators plan talks on the draft rules for managers of so-
called UCITS funds ahead of a vote by the full assembly in May,
said Sven Giegold, the lawmaker leading work on the standards.  If the fund industry came up with a clear solution to
ensure investors got a vote on pay, “I would welcome that,”
Giegold said in an interview.  The draft rules for fund managers go beyond planned EU
curbs on banker pay that won approval yesterday from national
representatives despite U.K. opposition. Those measures allow
bonuses of as much as twice a banker’s fixed pay if shareholders
agree. The financial industry has warned that both sets of plans
could drive up fixed costs and harm European competitiveness.  Under the rules for bankers, bonuses higher than fixed pay
would need approval by two-thirds of shareholders taking part in
the vote, with this threshold rising to 75 percent if fewer than
half of shareholders are present.  “EU lawmakers simply do not understand the financial and
economic implications of the measures that they are proposing.
It is difficult to predict the damage that this will cause as,
no doubt, a lot of money will be spent on trying to ensure that
these pay curbs are circumvented,” said Philip Booth, professor
at  London ’s Cass Business School.  Giegold said he could support a similar two-to-one pay rule
for UCITS, or Undertakings for Collective Investment in
Transferable Securities, if a practical solution could be found
for how to organize a vote by fund owners on the awards.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Australia to Shut Bank-Rate Panel as HSBC, Citigroup Exit  Australia  plans to scrap the panel that sets its benchmark
interbank borrowing rate, becoming the first major developed
economy to replace its rate-setting regime following the global
Libor-rigging scandal.  The nation’s  bank bill swap rate  will be compiled directly
using prices from brokers and electronic markets instead of
asking a panel of banks, the Australian Financial Markets
Association, which publishes the benchmark, said in a  statement 
yesterday.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  will stop
contributing to the rate from the end of this month, AFMA said.  Their exit will reduce the panel to 10 members after  UBS AG (UBSN) 
left last month and JPMorgan Chase & Co. said it will leave by
today. Banks are quitting rate-setting panels worldwide, under
tougher scrutiny and rising compliance costs following scandals
that cost Barclays Plc, UBS and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
about $2.5 billion in fines.  AFMA’s proposal is subject to meeting technical
requirements, it said yesterday. The group, which represents 130
brokers, banks and fund managers in Australia, plans to start
the new system “within a period of months,” it said.  At least A$350 billion ($366 billion) of Australian
syndicated loans and floating-rate bonds are priced off BBSW,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Trading of swaps,
forward rate agreements and options tied to BBSW was worth more
than A$8.7 trillion in the 2009 financial year, according to an
AFMA letter to global banking regulators in 2010.  For more, click here.  Fannie Mae Regulator Sets No-Doc Modifications for Borrowers  Seriously delinquent borrowers with mortgages owned or
backed by  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac will be able to reduce
monthly payments without documenting finances under a program
introduced by the companies’ regulator.  The move announced yesterday by the  Federal Housing Finance
Agency  is designed to stem losses to the U.S.-owned firms by
letting borrowers at least 90 days behind on their loans bypass
the administrative hurdles of typical loan modifications.
Homeowners may still give their lender documents on financial
hardships and can save more money by doing so, the  agency said .  “This new option gives delinquent borrowers another path
to avoid foreclosure,” Edward J. DeMarco, the FHFA’s acting
director, said in a statement.  About two-thirds of U.S. home mortgages are backed by
Washington-based Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  of McLean,  Virginia ,
which package loans into securities on which they guarantee
payments of principal and interest. About 3.2 percent of
mortgages they guarantee were at least 90 days in arrears in
January, according to data from the two companies.  The Streamlined Modification Initiative will begin July 1
and end on August 1, 2015, the FHFA said. Borrowers must be at
least 90 days delinquent, have a loan at least a year old and
have less than 20 percent equity in their home to qualify.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have been operating under U.S.
conservatorship since September 2008, when they were seized by
federal regulators amid losses on risky loans during the
subprime mortgage crisis.  Luxembourg Opposes Steps to ‘Renationalize’ EU Banking Market  Luxembourg warned that the European Union risks hurting
financial stability if it moves to isolate banking systems
within national borders.  “Luxembourg will therefore not adhere to policies that
intend to renationalize elements of the single market,” the
government said in an e-mailed statement.  The Luxembourg statement counters recent remarks from Dutch
Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who leads the group of
euro-area finance ministers, that countries need to rein in
their banking sectors or face EU consequences. “Push them back.
You deal with them,” Dijsselbloem said this week in comments on
how the EU should respond to banks in trouble.  When asked about a policy of “pushing back the risks” on
banks for countries including Luxembourg, Dijsselbloem  said :
“It means: deal with it before you get in trouble. Strengthen
your banks, fix your balance sheets, and realize that if a bank
gets in trouble, the response will no longer automatically be
we’ll come and take away your problems.”  Countries shouldn’t be judged solely on the size of their
banking sectors in relation to gross domestic product, nor
should they be penalized for the business model of international
finance, according to the Luxembourg statement.  Banking systems should be judged by their quality,
“solidity” and size relative to the euro area as a whole,
Luxembourg said. A more “restrictive approach” runs counter to
the EU’s single market and toward the currency bloc’s move to
establish common banking supervision.  EU Starts Debate on 2030 Energy, Climate Rules Amid Crisis  The European Union’s executive started a debate yesterday
on EU climate and energy rules as the crisis-ridden bloc seeks a
long-term plan to cut greenhouse gases and promote clean power
technologies.  While the 27-nation bloc is making “good progress” toward
its 2020 goals to boost the share of renewable energy and cut
greenhouse gases, a framework for the subsequent decade is
needed to give investors legal certainty, spur innovation and
prepare for a global climate deal, the European Commission said
in a consultation paper published in Brussels.  The commission invited member states, the European
Parliament, industry groups and non-governmental organizations
to submit their views until July 2 on EU objectives for 2030.  The EU, in the fourth year of the sovereign-debt crisis,
wants to remain the leader in the global fight against climate
change while ensuring the security of energy supply and
fostering competitiveness. The new rules must draw on the
lessons from the current framework and identify how to best use
synergies and deal with trade-offs between various policy
objectives, the commission said.  While the document published yesterday is aimed at
triggering a debate among policy makers on the future policy
framework, the commission wants to present concrete legislative
proposals toward the end of this year, Energy Commissioner
 Guenther Oettinger  said. A new set of goals could become binding
toward the end of 2014 or in 2015 at the latest, he said.  For more, click here.  U.K. Ministers Caution Banks Against Recapitalizing Too Fast  U.K. ministers warned the Bank of England against pushing
banks to strengthen their balance sheets too quickly, saying
restrictions on lending to small and medium-sized enterprises
could further damage the economy.  U.K. lenders need to raise 25 billion pounds ($38 billion)
to make up a shortfall in capital, the central bank’s Financial
Policy Committee said yesterday, following an examination by the
Financial Services Authority into banks’ exposures to commercial
real estate and euro-area economies, risk models and provisions
for compensation and fines over a three-year period. The BOE
didn’t provide details for individual lenders or say how many
need to raise capital.  “The idea that banks should be forced to raise new capital
during a period of recession is an erroneous one,” Sky News
cited Business Secretary Vince Cable as saying  on its website .
Cable’s office confirmed the comments.  China Regulator Tells Banks to Limit Holdings of Non-Traded Debt  China’s banking regulator told lenders to limit investments
of client funds in debt that isn’t publicly traded and to
isolate such risks from their operations.  Such investments can’t exceed 35 percent of all funds
raised from the sale of wealth management products, or 4 percent
of the lender’s total assets at the end of the previous year,
the China Banking Regulatory Commission said in a  statement  on
its website.  Investments by banks’ wealth management funds into “non-
standardized debt assets,” such as loans, letters of credit and
receivables that aren’t traded on exchanges or the interbank
market, “increased rapidly” recently, the CBRC said. Some
lenders didn’t isolate related risks promptly, and some used the
practices to skirt lending restrictions, according to the
statement, dated March 25.  The outstanding balance of banks’ wealth management
products may have reached 13 trillion  yuan  ($2.1 trillion) at
the end of last year, compared with 8.5 trillion yuan a year
earlier, according to Fitch Ratings. Such products, which pay
higher rates than regulated deposits, help lenders retain
clients.  Clegg Says U.K. to Look at Tax Breaks for Employee-Owned Firms  U.K. Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg said the government
will look at offering tax breaks for employee-owned firms, which
he’ll argue offer a superior model of growth to other companies.  In his March 20 budget, Chancellor of the Exchequer George
Osborne announced a capital-gains tax exemption for owners
selling a controlling stake in their company to their employees.
In a speech in London, Clegg will propose tax relief on bonuses
paid through “benefit trusts,” which are set up to own a stake
in a company and pass on rewards to staff.  Clegg, who heads Conservative Prime Minister David
Cameron’s Liberal Democrat coalition partners, yesterday made a
speech to the Employee Ownership Association. The EOA has been a
critic of plans by Osborne, a Conservative, to allow people to
give up employment rights in exchange for shares in a company.
Those plans suffered a setback last week when they were voted
down in the upper House of Lords.  German Snags Hold Back EU Approval of ECB Bank-Supervisor Deal  The European Union will reconsider details of a proposed
law to make the European Central Bank a supervisor after  Germany 
requested technical changes.  Germany told a meeting of national diplomats in Brussels
yesterday that the EU should extend rules for firing the
chairman of the ECB’s bank oversight board to cover the vice
chairman, according to two EU officials who declined to be
identified because the talks are private. It also wants the text
to state more clearly that national parliaments can quiz the ECB
on its supervisory policies. Germany, along with other EU
governments, can veto the plans.  EU leaders called for the new supervisor in 2012 as they
sought to tame a fiscal crisis that has forced  Greece ,  Portugal ,
Ireland, Spain and, most recently, Cyprus to seek international
aid.  Germany also wants stronger references in the text to
possible changes to bloc’s treaties that would place the
supervisor on what it says would be a sounder legal footing, the
EU officials said. The issues shouldn’t affect the timetable for
setting up the supervisor, according to the officials.  Compliance Action  JPMorgan Tells SEC New VaR Model Didn’t Require Prior Disclosure  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , facing criticism that it misled
investors about a change to a risk model as trades backfired
last year, told U.S. regulators that the bank wasn’t obligated
to disclose the move until May.  While there was an “interim change” to the lender’s so-
called value-at-risk model during the first three months of
2012, that adjustment had been reversed by the time the company
filed its quarterly report in May, then-Chief Financial Officer
Douglas Braunstein told the Securities and Exchange Commission
in a Dec. 3  letter  that was released yesterday.  “As a result, the firm believes there was no model change
within the meaning of” securities-disclosure laws, he wrote.  The alteration to the model in January 2012 has been blamed
for exacerbating trading losses that exceeded $6.2 billion last
year. The bank disclosed the change and initial losses of about
$2 billion in a May 10 regulatory filing, almost a month after
reporting first-quarter results.  Braunstein, 52, was responding to a  Nov. 7 letter  from the
SEC that asked the bank to explain why it didn’t think it was
required to disclose the change sooner.  Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon, 57, said May 10 that
the company had reviewed the effectiveness of the January VaR
model, deemed it “inadequate” and decided to return to the
previous version. Restoring the use of the earlier model meant
the risk was twice what the bank told investors in April.  VaR measures the maximum possible trading losses on a
position or trading unit with 95 percent probability.  Ex-Morgan Keegan Fund Directors to Settle SEC Valuation Case  Eight former Morgan Keegan & Co. mutual-fund directors
agreed to settle U.S. regulatory claims that they allowed assets
backed by subprime mortgages to be overvalued as the housing
market collapsed in 2007.  The settlement outlined yesterday in a Securities and
Exchange Commission administrative order would resolve claims
filed by the agency in December 2010. A hearing set for April 2
has been stayed, according to the order.  “The parties have agreed in principle to a settlement on
all major terms,” the SEC said in the order signed by an agency
official and attorneys for the eight former directors. Terms
weren’t disclosed.  Morgan Keegan agreed to pay $200 million to  settle  related
fraud allegations in 2011. The brokerage, formerly owned by
 Regions Financial Corp. (RF) , was acquired by  Raymond James Financial
Inc. (RJF)  last year.  The eight directors, who were responsible for determining
the fair value of securities that lacked readily available
quotations, delegated valuation to a committee without providing
meaningful guidance, the SEC said in 2010. The directors made
little effort to learn how the values were being determined,
according to the regulator.  Wal-Mart Expects to Incur More Costs in Bribery Probes  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s largest retailer, said it
expects to continue incurring costs related to its
investigations of possible bribery in its international
operations.  The cost related to the probes was $157 million in the year
ended Jan. 31, the Bentonville, Arkansas-based company said in a
March 26 filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  Wal-Mart last year began investigating allegations that
executives in  Mexico  paid more than $24 million in bribes to
speed the retailer’s expansion there and has since said it also
is probing operations in  Brazil ,  India  and China. The retailer
said it is spending money on its internal probes, responding to
information requests from government investigators and defending
shareholder lawsuits.  While Wal-Mart doesn’t expect the matters to have a
material adverse effect on its business, the company said it
can’t reasonably estimate the potential loss from the situation.  The U.S. Department of Justice and the SEC as well as
federal and local government agencies in Mexico are
investigating the allegations that Wal-Mart systematically
bribed Mexican officials. The allegations were first outlined in
a  New York  Times article in April 2012. Democratic
Representatives Henry Waxman of  California  and Elijah Cummings
of  Maryland  also are probing the retailer.  Wal-Mart named Karen Roberts as general counsel in December
as her predecessor, Jeff Gearhart, focuses on global compliance
efforts. That followed the company combining its compliance
office with ethics, investigations and legal functions to form
one organization in October.  South Africa’s Construction Industry to Settle Antitrust Fines  South Africa’s construction companies should expect a
relatively lenient fine from the country’s Competition
Commission when its investigation into collusion in the industry
ends later this year.  “Leniency will vary from company to company, depending on
level of cooperation, projects won, and value of projects,”
Trudi Makhaya, deputy commissioner of the antitrust body, said
in an interview yesterday with Bloomberg News’s Kamlesh
Bhuckory. The fine “will be lower than normal circumstances,”
she said.  The Competition Commission is investigating construction
companies over cartel-style collusion on prices for contracts
issued back as far as three years, Makhaya said last month.  Companies including  Wilson-Bayly Holmes-Ovcon Ltd. (WBO)  and
 Murray and Roberts Holdings Ltd.  have put cash aside to pay
potential penalties.  Basil Read Holdings Ltd. (BSR)  has increased
provisions to 75 million rand ($8.1 million) from 65 million
rand a year ago.  The commission has entered talks with 18 companies
including the “major ones” with an aim of reaching a
settlement, according to Makhaya. The process is expected to
conclude by the end of June.  Mercedes-Benz Trucks, Dealers Fined $4.2 Million by U.K. Agency  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz trucks unit and five dealers in
Britain selling its vehicles were fined 2.8 million pounds ($4.2
million) by the U.K. antitrust regulator for allegedly
coordinating prices and sharing commercially sensitive
information.  The fines relate to five violations of competition law from
2007 to 2010, with each including two or three dealers, the
 Office of Fair Trading  said in a statement yesterday.  The OFT last year dropped a separate probe into the
Mercedes unit and companies including  Fiat Industrial SpA (FI) ’s
Iveco brand to let the European Union focus on the case, which
involves a suspected cartel of truckmakers. In that probe, the
head of Mercedes-Benz trucks in the U.K. was arrested in 2010,
and then released on bail when the probe began.  Mercedes said it reached a settlement with OFT to resolve
the probe and has learned from the investigation. The company
said the deal relates to a single meeting held in 2009.  Courts  Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac Ruled Exempt From Paying Transfer Tax  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are exempt from paying real-
estate transfer taxes, a federal judge in Philadelphia said in a
ruling that threw out a lawsuit by two  Pennsylvania  counties.  U.S. District Judge Gene E.K. Pratter rejected Delaware and
Chester counties arguments that the transfer tax is a levy on
real estate and thus is an exception to broad, Congressionally-
mandated immunity from state and local taxes enjoyed by Federal
National Mortgage Association, or Fannie Mae, and the Federal
Home Loan Mortgage Corp., known as Freddie Mac.  “Pennsylvania Supreme Court and U.S. Supreme Court case
law makes clear that the transfer tax is a tax on the
transaction and not on the real property itself,” Pratter wrote
in a March 26 decision.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac own or guarantee $5.2 trillion
in mortgages and back more than two thirds of mortgages
currently being originated.  The Pennsylvania counties’ suit is one of several cases in
the U.S. over transfer fees. Other cases have been brought by
Montgomery County in  Ohio ; Montgomery County in Maryland and
Miami-Dade County and Hernando County in Florida.  Pratter said there have been at least five decisions in
such cases, with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac winning four of
them.  The case is Delaware County, Pennsylvania v. Federal
Housing Finance Agency, 12-cv-04554, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  Comcast Backed by High Court on Philadelphia Antitrust Suit  Comcast (CMCSA)  Corp., the nation’s largest cable-television
company, doesn’t have to defend against an $875 million
antitrust lawsuit on behalf of as many as 2 million
Philadelphia-area customers, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled.  The justices, voting 5-4 to reverse a lower court, said the
case against Comcast was too unwieldy to proceed as a single
class-action lawsuit.  The company was accused of monopolizing the Philadelphia
market. The suing customers said Comcast swapped territories and
subscribers with competitors to ensure it could control the
market and charge higher prices. Comcast has denied the
allegations.  The high court, in an opinion by Justice Antonin Scalia,
said the customers didn’t meet requirements for outlining a
common method needed to receive class-action status that could
be used to determine monetary damages for each of the thousands
of individual parties to the lawsuit.  The customers’ effort to devise a common methodology fell
short when they produced a general theory about alleged
overcharges from lack of competition without more detailed
information about the impact of the specific antitrust
allegation in the lawsuit, the court ruled.  The case is Comcast v. Behrend, 11-864.  Speeches and Interviews  Two Fed Presidents Call for Pressing on With QE Through 2013  Two regional Federal Reserve presidents said they want the
Fed to keep buying bonds through the end of 2013, while a third
official said the central bank isn’t doing enough to spur
economic growth.  “We should continue our  large-scale asset purchases  of
Treasury and mortgage-backed securities through this year --
although the amount may need to be adjusted up or down,
depending on how the economic situation evolves,” Boston Fed
President  Eric Rosengren  said yesterday in a speech in
Manchester, New Hampshire. “This is a point when we have to be
patient and let our policies work,” with stimulus “firing on
all cylinders,” Chicago’s Charles Evans said to reporters.  The comments by Evans, Rosengren and Minneapolis’ Narayana
Kocherlakota reinforce Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s push to
sustain record easing even as some policy makers voice concern
the stimulus is ineffective or harmful. The Fed affirmed a plan
last week to buy $85 billion in bonds each month in quantitative
easing that has ballooned its assets beyond $3 trillion.  “Monetary policy is currently not accommodative enough,”
Kocherlakota said yesterday in Edina, Minnesota. He said he
favored easing policy by reducing to 5.5 percent from 6.5
percent the threshold at which the Fed will consider raising the
main interest rate.  “I’m going to have a lot more confidence if I begin to see
indications that growth is well above trend and it’s going to be
sustainable,” Evans, a voting member of the Federal Open Market
Committee, said at the Chicago Fed. “We have gone through this
type of thing before, where we saw improvements in the labor
numbers” only to watch job growth slow “to unhelpful levels.”  Since reducing its benchmark  interest rate  almost to zero
in December 2008, the FOMC has experimented with large-scale
asset purchases to bolster growth. The Fed started a third round
of quantitative easing in September, specifying neither an end
date for the program nor a total amount officials plan to buy.  Kocherlakota and Rosengren don’t vote on monetary policy
this year.  For more, click here.  France’s Hollande, Spain’s Rajoy on Cyprus  French President Francois Hollande and Spanish Prime
Minister Mariano Rajoy speak at a news conference about the
Cyprus bailout and European banking regulations.  To watch the video, click here.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 