-- EU Emitters Trade Spot Permits Before Carbon Compliance Deadline
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-03-28T12:46:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/eu-emitters-trade-spot-permits-before-carbon-compliance-deadline.html
Trading in European Union spot
carbon permits rose this quarter compared with the last year’s
average as factories and power plants bought back allowances
they sold to raise cash at the start of Europe’s recession.  Trading in  permits  eligible for use in the five years
through 2012 was 22 million metric tons in the first quarter,
according to ICE Futures Europe exchange in London. That’s
similar to the previous three months and double the quarterly
average for the so-called  Phase 2 permits  handled in 2012 by
NYSE Euronext SA’s Bluenext exchange, which closed in December.  Companies in the EU carbon market must surrender one permit
for every ton of carbon dioxide emitted in 2012 by April 30 or
face a penalty of 100 euros ($130) for each ton. Factories that
sold allowances to raise money four years ago are now buying
them back to meet emission obligations, according to Bostjan Bandelj, a director at trading company Belektron doo in
Llubljana, Slovenia.  “Some companies sold a full year’s allocation at around 10
to 15 euros a ton in the 2009 to 2011 period just to get the
cash, and they have no alternative but to buy now,” Bandelj
said in a March 11 interview.  Phase 2 permits for spot delivery have fallen 24 percent
this year to 4.88 euros a ton at 8:20 a.m. on ICE. The price of
benchmark carbon futures has plunged 83 percent since their 2008
peak, while United Nations Certified Emission Reduction credits
have fallen 99 percent.  Trading in phase 2 permits jumped to 18 million tons in
February, a 30-fold jump from the previous month, ICE data show.
The exchange handled 4 million tons this month.  Annual Cap  Europe ’s 54 billion-euro cap-and-trade system, the world’s
largest, imposes emission limits on about 12,000 power plants
and factories to spur investment in clean technologies. The
program allocates permits to polluters, who must surrender
enough allowances to cover their carbon emissions or face fines.  From 2008 through 2012, companies were given permits to
meet their annual cap by Feb. 28 of each year. They had until
April 30 to surrender allowances covering the previous year’s
emissions. Market rules allowed companies that sold their
permits to meet their carbon compliance obligations by
“borrowing” from the next year’s allocation, Bandelj said.  The second phase of the EU’s market will end on April 30
when the compliance cycle for 2012 is completed. Companies can’t
borrow permits from 2013’s allocation because it falls into the
third phase of the market. This has caught some companies out,
Jan Fousek, director at emissions broker Virtuse Energy sro in
 Prague , said in an interview.  “Several of our industrial clients sold their whole-year
allocation, but only a few of them were thinking of what to do
about the shortage in the future,” Fousek, whose company is
active mainly in the Czech Republic and Slovakia, said March 11
without providing details.  Only Buyers  Factories, power stations and airlines in the EU market may
use UN Certified Emission Reductions, or CERs, and Emission
Reduction Units to help meet emission limits. Prices of CERs for
delivery in December have averaged 4.37 euros a ton less than EU
allowances, or EUAs, since February 2011, according to ICE.  “Our clients’ EUA purchasing is now for 2013,” Fousek
said. Those who are buying for compliance in the second phase
are seeking cheaper ERUs or CERs, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in  London  at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Verdonck at 
 rverdonck@bloomberg.net  