-- EU May Make Money-Market Funds Hoard Cash, Liquid Assets
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-03-28T15:41:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/eu-may-make-money-market-funds-hoard-cash-liquid-assets-1-.html
Money-market funds may be forced by
European Union regulators to hold minimum levels of liquid
assets, and in some cases to hoard cash reserves, as part of a
bid to toughen oversight of the $4.7 trillion global industry.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief may
require  money-market funds  that maintain a fixed share price to
build up a cash “buffer” equivalent to 3 percent of their
assets, according to draft proposals obtained by  Bloomberg News .
Barnier has identified regulation of money-market funds as a
priority in the bloc’s efforts to rein in so-called shadow
banks.  Regulators are working to impose tighter restrictions on
the funds since the September 2008 collapse of the $62.5 billion
Reserve Primary Fund. Its failure, caused by losses on debt
issued by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., triggered a wider run
on money funds that helped freeze global credit markets.  The  International Monetary Fund  and global regulators at
the Financial Stability Board have urged national governments to
press ahead with regulating money-market funds, and shadow
banking more generally.  Funds with a fixed share price have come in for particular
attention from regulators, as they give “an impression of
safety even though MMFs are subject to credit,  interest rate  and
 liquidity risk ,” the International Organization of Securities
Commissions said last year. ‘The failure of one fund to honor
this commitment can put pressure on others, and “trigger a
run” that destabilizes the financial system, IOSCO said.  EU Market  The EU money-market fund industry is concentrated in
France, Ireland and Luxembourg, according to European Commission
data. Funds domiciled in these three countries account for more
than 95 percent of the EU MMF market.  Chantal Hughes, a spokeswoman for Barnier, didn’t have an
immediate comment. Money-market funds are investment funds that
focus on short-term, high quality assets, acting as
intermediaries between shareholders seeking liquid investments
and borrowers seeking short term funding, IOSCO said.  Funds would also be forced to conduct internal stress tests
under the proposals.  “Uniform rules will be introduced to ensure a minimum
level of daily and weekly liquid assets,” according to the
document. The move will improve funds’ “ability to satisfy
investor redemptions.”  Renewed Plans  Under the draft EU plans, money-market funds would also
face binding rules on the types of assets they can invest in,
limits on how much business they can do with a single
counterparty, and restrictions on short selling. The funds are
typically invested in short-term money-market instruments such
as commercial paper and U.S. Treasury bills.  Fidelity Investments , Vanguard Group Inc. and Charles
Schwab Corp., three of the five largest U.S. money-market fund
managers, signaled earlier this year they can’t stop renewed
plans by U.S regulators to overhaul rules for the industry.  The staff of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is
developing a draft set of rules that may include proposals to
force funds to adopt a floating share price, a plan the industry
has said would destroy the appeal of money funds.  A similar plan prepared last year under the direction of
former SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  was rejected by three of her
four fellow commissioners in August, even before they were
presented with a formal draft.  Republican Commissioner Daniel M. Gallagher said in a Jan.
16 speech he expected to see the proposals before the end of
March.  Floating Option  The Schapiro plan would have given funds the option of
floating their share price or creating capital buffers to absorb
potential losses and imposing withdrawal restrictions to prevent
shareholder runs. Fund executives have also attacked the concept
of capital buffers as being either too small to be effective or
too big to afford.  Among new rules introduced by the SEC in 2010, U.S. money
funds were required to meet minimum liquidity levels for the
first time. The funds must hold at least 10 percent of assets in
cash or securities easily converted into cash within one day,
and 30 percent within seven days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  