-- Europe May Thaw From Mid-April After Freezing Weather in March
-- B y   R a c h e l   M o r i s o n   a n d   J u l i a   M e n g e w e i n
-- 2013-03-28T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/europe-may-thaw-from-mid-april-after-freezing-weather-in-march.html
Freezing temperatures that
disrupted flights and train services across swathes of northern
Europe and boosted heating demand in March are set to last at
least another two weeks, according to weather forecasters.  Germany , the U.K.,  France  and the Nordic region will have
to wait until mid-April for relief from the colder-than-usual
weather, according to meteorologists at Deutscher Wetterdienst,
WSI Corp., Meteogroup U.K. Ltd., MeteoMedia Germany GmbH and MDA
Information Systems Llc. Temperatures in Germany were as much as
7 degrees Celsius (13 Fahrenheit) below normal in the week
through March 23, according to data from the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration.  This month is set to be the coldest March across England
and  Wales  in at least 44 years, according to forecaster
WeatherOnline Ltd. Gas for next month in the U.K., the European
benchmark for the heating fuel, rose to a four-year high on
March 26 while French power advanced 27 percent in March.  “By mid-April warmth should return to central and western
 Europe ,” Bradley Harvey, an operational meteorologist at MDA,
said by e-mail. “The warmth gains support from warm sea surface
temperatures in the North and Tropical Atlantic.”  The average U.K. temperature will be 2.7 degrees Celsius
through April 10, according to a GFS model supplied by
MetraWeather at 10:40 a.m. London time. That compares with a
seasonal norm of about 8 degrees for the coming week. In
Germany, the average temperature is forecast to be 1 degree, the
data show. The seasonal norm, based on records from 1961 to
1990, is about 16 degrees Celsius, Andreas Friedrich, a
meteorologist at Deutsche Wetterdienst, said by telephone from
Offenbach, Germany.  May, June  A “strong blocking high pressure” from Greenland,
Scandinavia and northwest  Russia  will keep temperatures low over
the next 10 days, according to Stephen Davenport, a senior
energy meteorologist in London at MeteoGroup.  In May, temperatures will be warmer than normal, except in
southern Europe, Andover, Massachusetts-based WSI said today in
an e-mailed statement. The weather will be warmer than normal in
June, except in the U.K., Benelux, northern France and parts of
coastal  Norway , the forecaster said.  U.K. gas for April gained 8.8 percent this month to 73.25
pence a therm so far this month on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange after reaching 76.15 pence March 26, the highest for a
month-ahead contract since November 2008. French April power
rose 11.75 euros to 55 euros a megawatt-hour over the period,
according to broker data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Morison in  London  at 
 rmorison@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Mengewein in Frankfurt at 
 jmengewein@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  