-- European Stocks Gain as German Retail Sales Advance
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-03-28T17:02:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/european-stock-futures-are-little-changed-on-german-sales.html
European (SXXP)  stocks climbed, completing
their third consecutive quarterly gain, as a report showed
retail sales unexpectedly increased in  Germany  last month and
Cypriot banks opened for the first time in almost two weeks.  D.E Master Blenders 1753 NV surged the most since its
initial public offering last June after the coffee and tea
company spun off by Sara Lee Corp. said Joh. A. Benckiser has
held talks to take it over. Ziggo NV rose to its highest price
since October as Liberty Global Inc. bought a 12.7 percent stake
in the Dutch cable-television operator.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index added 0.5 percent to 293.78 at
the close of trading. The equity benchmark has lost 0.1 percent
this week, paring its gain in March to 1.3 percent. The Stoxx
600 posted a quarterly rally of 5 percent and its longest
winning streak in two years.  “German retail sales are a positive for market
participants ahead of the Easter break,” said Norman Villamin,
who helps oversee about $44 billion as European chief investment
officer at Coutts & Co. in Zurich. “But they just reinforce the
idea that  Europe  is running a two-speed economy.”  German retail  sales , adjusted for inflation and seasonal
swings, gained 0.4 percent in February, after rising a revised 3
percent in January, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden
said today. Economists had forecast a decline of 0.6 percent,
according to the  median  of 24 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  German Unemployment  European stocks briefly pared their advance after a Federal
Labor Agency report showed that  unemployment  in Europe’s largest
economy unexpectedly rose this month. The number of people out
of work increased a seasonally adjusted 13,000 to 2.94 million.
The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey had called for the
number of jobless to decline by 2,000.  Cyprus’s banks opened their doors to customers today for
the first time in almost two weeks. The Central Bank of Cyprus
has introduced capital controls including a 300-euro ($385)
daily limit on withdrawals and restrictions on transfers to
accounts outside the country.  In  Italy , Pier Luigi Bersani, who won a majority in the
lower house of parliament last month, will tell President
Giorgio Napolitano today whether he has managed to form a broad
coalition capable of surviving a confidence vote in the upper
house. The Democratic Party, which Bersani leads, failed to
obtain a majority in the Senate in the election.  Master Blenders  Master Blenders rallied 25 percent to 12.05 euros. JAB, an
investment firm run by Bart Becht, intends to pay 12.75 euros a
share, according to a statement. The maker of Douwe Egberts
coffee said negotiations have only reached an early stage.  Ziggo climbed 13 percent to 27.44 euros after Liberty
Global bought the stake from Barclays Plc. The cable company
controlled by John Malone paid about 632.5 million euros to buy
the holding, it said in a statement.  Tele2 AB (TEL2B)  advanced 4.5 percent to 113.40 kronor after
billionaire Mikhail Fridman’s Alfa Group said it’s ready to
offer as much as $4 billion for the Swedish company’s Russian
mobile-phone unit. A1, the investment arm of Alfa Group, said it
also wants to agree on a price for Tele2’s remaining assets. VTB
Group,  Russia ’s second-largest bank, agreed to buy Tele2 Russia
for $3.55 billion in cash and debt late yesterday.  Investment AB Kinnevik, the publicly traded investment
vehicle of  Sweden ’s Stenback family, rose 5.8 percent to 157.90
kronor. Kinnevik owns 30.5 percent of  the capital  and 47.7
percent of the votes in Tele2.  Carmakers Decline  A gauge of European carmakers posted the  worst performance 
of the 19 industry groups on the Stoxx 600. Daimler AG, the
world’s third-largest maker of luxury vehicles, lost 2 percent
to 42.45 euros, while Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, the biggest,
slipped 2.6 percent to 67.31 euros.  CNP Assurances SA slid 1.8 percent to 10.71 euros as the
French life insurer said it will assess the impact of Cyprus’s
banking crisis on its joint venture with Cyprus Popular Bank
Pcl. The Mediterranean nation has begun to dismantle its second-
biggest lender to help meet the conditions of a bailout from the
European Union and the International Monetary Fund.  National benchmark indexes climbed in 12 of the 15 western-
European markets that opened today.  France ’s CAC 40 jumped 0.5
percent and the U.K.’s FTSE 100 gained 0.4 percent. Germany’s
DAX rose 0.1 percent. Markets in Norway, Denmark and Iceland
were closed for holidays today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  