-- European Stocks Little Changed in Week on Cyprus Bailout
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-03-30T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/european-stocks-little-changed-in-week-on-cyprus-bailout.html
European stocks  were little changed
this week as uncertainty in Cyprus and a political deadlock in
 Italy  overshadowed better-than-estimated U.S. and German
economic data.  Banco Espirito Santo SA led a gauge of euro-area lenders
lower. D.E Master Blenders 1753 NV soared 29 percent this week
after saying it’s in takeover talks that value the company at
7.6 billion euros ($9.7 billion). Ziggo NV jumped 13 percent
after  Liberty Global  Inc. bought a 12.7 percent stake.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  fell 0.1 percent in a four-day
week before the Easter holiday, after declining the most in four
months the previous week. The gauge has still advanced 5 percent
this quarter and traded to its highest level since June 2008,
bolstered by U.S. economic reports and monetary stimulus from
central banks.  “The markets are in far better shape, despite a political
fiasco in Italy and this extraordinary situation in Cyprus,”
Stephen Isaacs, a strategist at Alvine Capital Management Ltd.,
told  Mark Barton  on Bloomberg Television this week. “We had one
or two-day minor corrections and here we are back at an all-time
highs, or very close to.”  The benchmark  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  climbed above its
record closing level set in October 2007. Durable-goods orders
rose in February by the most in five months while the S&P/Case-
Shiller index of property values in 20 cities showed its biggest
year-over-year increase since June 2006.  German Sales  In  Europe , German retail sales unexpectedly climbed in
February, rising 0.4 percent. That followed a revised 3 percent
in January and compared to the median economist forecast for a
0.6 percent decline.  National benchmark indexes still fell in 14 of the 18
western European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 rose 0.3 percent,
while  France ’s CAC 40 and  Germany ’s  DAX (DAX)  slipped 1 percent and
1.5 percent, respectively. Italy’s FTSE MIB Index dropped 4.4
percent, while  Greece ’s ASE Index lost 6.6 percent. The stock
market in Cyprus remained closed for a second week.  Cyprus this week obtained a 10 billion-euro international
bailout after the island agreed to shut down its second-largest
lender and impose losses on uninsured deposits of more than
100,000 euros. The deal replaced a previous euro-area demand to
impose a levy on all bank accounts.  Dijsselbloem Comments  Stocks and the euro sank earlier in the week after Reuters
reported that Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who
leads the group of 17 euro finance ministers, said the Cyprus
bailout should be viewed as a template for solving banking
problems in the region. Shares pared losses when Dijsselbloem
later clarified his remarks, saying Cyprus is a “specific case
with exceptional challenges.”  In Italy, bond yields surged after the leader of the
 Democratic Party , Pier Luigi Bersani, ruled out the possibility
of creating a broad coalition following a failed meeting with
rival politicians.  Bersani won a majority in the lower house of Italy’s
parliament last month and needs additional support in the Senate
to form a government.  A  gauge of euro-area banks  declined 2.2 percent.  Mediobanca
SpA (MB)  fell 11 percent in Milan, while Banco Popolare SC slid 8.5
percent. Societe Generale SA retreated 6.6 percent in Paris and
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA sank 7.3 percent in  Madrid .  Portuguese Banks  Portuguese lenders also slumped as Moody’s Investor Service
affirmed the country’s junk-debt rating with a negative outlook,
saying the economy will likely undergo a later-than-expected
contraction this year.  Espirito Santo (BES) , Portugal’s biggest publicly traded bank,
plunged 12 percent in Lisbon. Banco Comercial Portugues SA, the
second-largest, lost 10 percent.  Kazakhmys Plc tumbled 16 percent as it cut its 2012
dividend by 60 percent to 11 cents a share and reported a full-
year loss after the value of its stake in Eurasian Natural
Resources Corp. dropped by more than half.  Telefonica SA slumped 8.3 percent after Spain’s biggest
telephone operator sold about 975 million euros worth of
treasury stock to help reduce its debt.  Master Blenders soared the most on the Stoxx 600 this week.
The coffee and tea company that was spun off by Sara Lee Corp.
said it’s in talks to be acquired by a group led by Joh. A.
Benckiser. JAB, the investment firm run by Bart Becht, plans to
pay 12.75 euros a share for the company.  Ziggo rallied 13 percent after  John Malone ’s Liberty Global
paid about 632.5 million euros for a stake in the Dutch cable-
television operator from Barclays Plc after the U.K. lender last
week failed to find enough buyers in a share sale.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  