-- Ex-Morgan Stanley Manager to Start Japan Stocks Hedge Fund
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2013-03-28T05:02:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/ex-morgan-stanley-manager-to-start-japan-long-short-hedge-fund.html
Tsukasa Shimoda, a former fund
manager at Morgan Stanley Asset & Investment Trust Management
Co., will start a Japan-focused hedge fund amid increased
appetite for the world’s second-largest equity market.  The UMJ Galleyla Fund will start on April 1 with about 1
billion yen ($11 million) in initial capital including money
from an overseas fund-of-hedge-funds, said Shimoda, who runs the
strategy. The long-short equity fund will bet on rising and
falling stocks in  Japan  and will target an annual return of 15
percent to 25 percent, he said.  Japan-focused hedge funds have had the best start to the
year on  record , according to Eurekahedge Pte, after Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe pledged to boost the world’s third-largest
economy spurring stock gains and weakening the yen. Overseas
investors have stepped up purchases of Japanese equities,
including a record net 1.02 trillion yen in the week to March 8,
data compiled by the Tokyo Stock Exchange showed.  “There is a strong upward trend in Japan right now,”
Shimoda, 43, said in an interview in Tokyo yesterday. “The fact
the Japanese stock market is under the spotlight is a positive
for hedge funds.”  Shimoda left Morgan Stanley in 2009 and has managed his own
money for the past three years to build a track record and set
up his own company Galleyla Investment Co. in  Tokyo , he said.
Between February 2010 and January this year, Shimoda achieved a
return of 91 percent managing his own money and employing the
strategy that he will use for the new fund, according to
unofficial figures he compiled.  ‘Last Chance’  The Eurekahedge Japan Hedge Fund Index, which tracks about
80 funds, has gained 7 percent in the first two months of this
year, more than an average return of 6.3 percent recorded for
all of 2012. About 50 funds have started globally in the first
two months of the year, according to Singapore-based data
provider Eurekahedge.  The benchmark  Topix index  has surged more than 40 percent
since Nov. 14, when the elections that returned Abe to power the
following month were announced.  “Japan is back, at least in the short term,” said Thomas
Granger, partner at Walkers ( Singapore ) LLP, which provides
offshore legal services to investment funds. “Whilst Prime
Minister Abe’s moves are generally seen as a last chance to
revive the Japanese economy, the rally in Japanese stocks and
the positive results posted by Japanese hedge funds since
December have very much put Japan back on the radar for
investors.”  Technical, Fundamental  The fund will invest in about 60 to 150 stocks and plans to
stop taking new money once it reaches about 20 billion yen,
Shimoda said. It will use a combination of technical and
fundamental analysis, he said. Shimoda’s Galleyla will be the
investment advisory firm for the fund, while Tokyo-based United
Managers Japan Inc. will act as the investment manager, he said.  Shimoda said he will combine technical and fundamental
analysis after learning a lesson when he managed a Japanese
stock fund focused on smaller companies at Morgan Stanley. The
fund lost money when the collapse of Livedoor Co. for
fabricating profits sparked concerns about the finances of
smaller Japanese companies in 2006, sending their  shares  lower
and producing a loss for his fund.  “I was too focused on the fact that many of the small-cap
stocks were cheap based on their fundamentals,” Shimoda said.
“I should have looked at the bigger trend in the market, so I
am determined to utilize what I learned from my mistake back
then.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Singapore at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in 東京 at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net  