-- Ex-Senator Loses Bid to Toss Suit on Sex-Sting Legal Bill
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-03-28T22:55:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/ex-senator-loses-bid-to-toss-suit-on-sex-sting-legal-bill.html
Former U.S. Senator Larry Craig
lost a bid to throw out a  Federal Election Commission  lawsuit
claiming he improperly used campaign funds for lawyers after he
was arrested in an airport sex sting.  U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jacksonrejected Craig’s
contention that the legal fees were “ordinary and necessary”
expenses incurred in connection with official duties he was
performing at the time of his arrest for soliciting sex at the
Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport. The FEC made a valid
claim that Craig violated federal campaign law, she said.  “Neither the charge nor the underlying conduct had
anything to do with his performance of his official duties, so
the legal expenses they generated were not incurred in
connection with those duties,” Jackson wrote in her ruling
today.  Craig, an Idaho Republican, spent about $200,000 of
campaign funds in connection with his arrest, guilty plea to
disorderly conduct and subsequent efforts to withdraw the plea
in  Minnesota , the commission said in a lawsuit filed in June.  Craig, 67, was arrested at the airport on June 11, 2007, by
an undercover policeman. He denied soliciting sex in the
restroom, saying he had done nothing wrong.  Andrew Herman, a lawyer for Craig, said he was still
reviewing the order and couldn’t comment on it.  Hired Firms  Craig hired Washington-based Sutherland, Asbill & Brennan
to serve as lead counsel in an effort to withdraw his plea and
Kelly & Jacobson, a Minnesota firm. He also retained a media
relations firm to handle press inquiries about the incident,
according to the FEC’s complaint.  The Craig for  U.S. Senate  Committee paid Sutherland Asbill
at least $139,952 for legal services on Craig’s behalf, while
Kelly & Jacobson received about $77,032, the commission said in
the lawsuit.  The commission has asked the court to make Craig pay back
what he spent on his legal defense and to levy civil penalties
against Craig and his campaign treasurer of as much as $6,500.  During a March 11 hearing, Herman argued that if something
happens that results in a civil or criminal investigation in
course of regular activities while traveling on official
business, such as walking, eating or using the restroom, the
resulting legal fees could be paid with campaign money.  He pointed to an FEC opinion allowing former Representative
Jim Kolbe, an  Arizona  Republican, to use campaign funds to cover
legal fees associated with an investigation into improper
behavior with former congressional pages while on a trip to the
Grand Canyon.  The case is Federal Election Commission v. Craig for U.S.
Senate, 1:12-cv-00958, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 