-- Ex-U.S. Soldier Accused of Joining Terror Group in Syria
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-03-29T00:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/ex-u-s-soldier-accused-of-joining-terror-group-in-syria.html
A former U.S. Army soldier was
charged with conspiring to use a rocket-propelled grenade while
fighting in  Syria  alongside a group the government says is
linked to al-Qaeda.  Eric Harroun, 30, of Phoenix was arrested yesterday after
landing at Dulles International Airport in suburban  Washington 
and accused of conspiring to use a weapon of mass destruction
outside the country, according to a criminal complaint filed
today in federal court in Alexandria, Virginia. He faces a
maximum sentence of life in prison if convicted.  Harroun told investigators “he had been fighting with the
al-Nusrah Front for approximately 25 days and that he estimated
that he had engaged in seven to 10 battles,” according to an
affidavit by FBI special agent Paul Higginbotham.  Harroun served in the Army from 2000 to 2003 and was
medically discharged after a car accident, according to the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation  affidavit.  Since 2004, al-Nusrah Front, using a variety of names, has
been  designated  a foreign terrorist organization by the U.S.
Referred to by the State Department as al-Qaeda in  Iraq , the
group has claimed responsibility for about 600 terrorist attacks
in Syria since November 2011, according to the affidavit.  Harroun told investigators he was aware of the group’s
terrorist designation, Higginbothom said, detailing his March 27
interrogation.  Military Action  Harroun entered Syria on Jan. 7 and later appeared in two
videos available on Google Inc.’s Youtube in which he said he
was engaged in military action with rebel forces against the
Syrian government, Higginbotham said in his statement.  In February, several photos of Harroun carrying weapons,
including a rocket-propelled grenades, or RPGs, were uploaded
onto his Facebook page.  Investigators also cite a Fox News  article  from March 11
detailing Harroun’s background, his exploits as a Syrian rebel
known as “The American” and describing how he came to fight
alongside the al-Nusrah Front. That article reported that
Harroun’s Facebook page displays the quote: “The only good
Zionist is a dead Zionist.”  Harroun said he was part of an RPG team and that on at
least one occasion he hit a tower with an explosive.  Detention Hearing  Harroun was ordered held until a detention hearing on April
2, according to  Peter Carr , a spokesman for U.S. Attorney  Neil MacBride  in Alexandria.  There are several sections of U.S. law barring Americans
from joining military factions or anti-government groups in
other countries, said  Eugene Fidell , a former president of the
National Institute of Military Justice who teaches at  Yale
University .  “The country has a right to make sure vigilantes, well-
intentioned or otherwise, don’t get in the way in management of
the most sensitive issue of foreign relations,” Fidell, who
isn’t involved in the case, said in a telephone interview.  The criminal complaint against Harroun may have been
intended to keep him in custody while additional charges are
considered, Fidell said.  The case is U.S. v. Harroun, 13-mj-00182, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of  Virginia  (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 