-- Expedia-Backed Site Room 77 Names Patterson CEO
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-03-28T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/expedia-backed-site-room-77-names-patterson-ceo.html
Room 77 Inc., an online travel
startup backed by  Expedia Inc. (EXPE) , hired industry veteran Drew Patterson as chief executive officer to take on  Kayak Software
Corp. (KYAK)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  in hotel search.  Patterson, 36, a former vice president at Kayak joins as
part of the company’s acquisition of CheckMate, a hotel check-in
application he started, Room 77 said in a statement today. Prior
to CheckMate, Patterson co-founded Jetsetter, a travel-deals
service that was bought by Gilt Groupe Inc.  Room 77, based in  Mountain View ,  California , has been
operating without a CEO since it was  founded  in 2009 by Brad Gerstner, a hedge-fund manager and entrepreneur. Gerstner has
managed the company with the help of Chief Operating Officer
Kevin Fliess, raising almost $44 million in venture funding,
including a $30 million  round  in January led by online travel
agent Expedia.  “The table is open for who is going to be able to create
leadership in the hotel search space,” Patterson said, in an
interview. For Room 77, “it’s a question of taking the product
to the next level and building a brand.”  The Room 77 hotel search engine opened to the public last
year, and as of January, hundreds of thousands of room nights
had been booked using the service,  according  to the company’s
Website. Like  Kayak (PCLN) , which Priceline.com Inc. agreed to buy for
$1.8 billion, and Google’s Hotel Finder, Room 77 is a metasearch
engine that scans prices and availability from numerous online
travel agents. The company gets a portion of revenue for driving
traffic to those sites.  Priceline’s Radar  While going up against such big competitors is a daunting
task, Room 77 has gained enough traction to get Priceline’s
attention. In the Norwalk, Connecticut-based company’s annual
report,  Priceline mentioned Room 77 and other startups,
including Hipmunk Inc., as competitors that have developed “new
and differentiated offerings that endeavor to provide savings on
hotel room.”  With the acquisition of CheckMate and its four employees,
Room 77 now has more than 30 employees, Gerstner said in the
same interview.  Room 77 has deep roots in the online travel market.
Gerstner, through his Boston-based investment firm, Altimeter
Capital Management, is an investor in Priceline,  TripAdvisor
Inc. (TRIP)  and  China ’s Ctrip.com International Ltd., as well as
multiple airlines and rental car companies, according to a
regulatory filing.  Since 2010, Gerstner has served on the  board  of  Orbitz
Worldwide Inc.. (OWW)  He’s also on the board of HotelTonight Inc., a
San Francisco-based startup that offers last-minute hotel deals.  Metasearch Model  Gerstner touts Room 77 as a faster service than its rivals
that’s easier to use while finding bigger discounts. He’s also
focused on allowing users of smartphones to book the hotel from
his site so they don’t have to use multiple apps.  “We’ve done all the hard work of passing data to Expedia
or the hotels so you don’t have to link out,” Gerstner said.
“On mobile devices, which is where a huge percentage of
searches are occurring, people don’t want to link out. They just
want to close the transactions.”  In the press release announcing its stake, Expedia CEO Dara Khosrowshahi said that “metasearch is an increasingly important
model.” The investment is being used in part to speed Room 77’s
expansion internationally, a strategy that’s helped Priceline
outperform almost every U.S. stock in the past five years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  