-- Fiat Seeks $2.5 Billion Credit Line Before Chrysler Deal
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2013-03-28T15:10:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/fiat-seeks-2-5-billion-credit-line-before-chrysler-deal.html
Fiat SpA (F)  is approaching banks to
refinance a 1.95 billion-euro ($2.5 billion) credit line as the
Italian carmaker weighs options to buy the Chrysler Group LLC
stake it doesn’t own, two people familiar with the matter said.  Sergio Marchionne , chief executive officer of both
automakers, is seeking as soon as next month to refinance the
revolving credit line expiring next year, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the talks are private. Fiat
doesn’t comment on its finance strategy, a representative said.  The CEO aims to acquire the 41.5 percent of Chrysler held
by the  United Auto Workers ’ medical benefits trust and merge the
two carmakers to create a global automaker out of the two
regional manufacturers. Fiat is relying on Chrysler to sustain
earnings after the loss at the Italian automaker’s mass-market
brands widened in  Europe  in 2012 to more than 700 million euros.  “It’s not just about having cash for Chrysler,” Erich Hauser, a Credit Suisse analyst in  London , said in an e-mail.
“Fiat need to secure liquidity as it burns cash” in Europe.  The shares  were up  1 cent, or 0.2 percent, to 4.17 euros as
of 4:05 p.m. in Milan trading. The stock has gained 10 percent
this year, giving the company a market value of 5.2 billion
euros.  As part of the refinancing, the ring-fencing of the  credit
line  that limited its use to Fiat may be lifted to give Chrysler
access to the cash too, the people said.  UAW Talks  The UAW confirmed in February that talks were under way
between Fiat and the union’s trust fund in preparation for a
possible sale of the stake it owns on behalf of retirees.  A U.S. court may rule in June or July on the amount Fiat
must pay the UAW retiree fund for part of its holding, the CEO
said March 19. Fiat has already exercised options to increase
its stake to about 65 percent from the current 58.5 percent. The
fund hasn’t handed over the shares because of the price dispute.  Marchionne aims to create a single company after already
integrating the two on an operational level, he said this month.
Chances are about even between Fiat buying out the fund and the
fund holding an initial public offering to sell its stake, he
said. The company has started the valuation process for the UAW
retiree holding, Marchionne said March 5.  Following a merger, the manufacturer should consider “the
possible benefits” of a U.S. stock listing, Marchionne said. A
final combination between the two may happen this year, he said
at the Geneva car show this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  