-- Fisker Woes Grow on Staff Furloughs, Dongfeng’s Retreat
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n   a n d   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2013-03-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/fisker-furloughs-staff-for-a-week-to-conserve-carmaker-s-cash.html
Fisker Automotive Inc., a maker of
luxury plug-in cars that’s seeking investors to fund operations,
lost a potential automotive partner and furloughed employees for
a week to save cash. Fisker also retained restructuring lawyers,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  Dongfeng Motor Group Co. (489) , a Chinese carmaker that had
considered buying a stake in Anaheim, California-based Fisker,
said yesterday those discussions are over. Fisker has repeatedly
declined to identify specific companies it’s talking to.  Xu Ping, Dongfeng’s chairman, told reporters in  Hong Kong 
that acquisition talks ended as there was “some distance”
between Fisker’s future development and the Wuhan, China-based
automaker’s plans. Dongfeng had offered $350 million for
majority control of Fisker, people with knowledge of the matter
said last month. Neither company confirmed that bid.  Fisker has struggled since halting assembly of rechargeable
Karma sedans last year when the supplier of the $103,000 car’s
lithium-ion batteries,  A123 Systems Inc. (AONEQ) , filed for bankruptcy.
Henrik Fisker, the auto designer who co-founded the company,
quit this month over unspecified disagreements with other
executives.  The closely held carmaker retained restructuring lawyers
from  Kirkland & Ellis LLP , said a person familiar with the
matter who declined to be identified because the move isn’t
public. The law firm’s corporate bankruptcy and restructuring
practice is one of the biggest in the U.S.  Roger Ormisher, a Fisker spokesman, declined to comment.
Kirkland’s role was reported yesterday by the Wall Street
Journal.  Venture Capital  Fisker Automotive, with celebrity customers including
singer Justin Bieber and actor  Leonardo DiCaprio , has sold about
2,500 Karmas in the past two years. It has raised more than $1
billion from private sources, including Silicon Valley investor
Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, and was awarded $529 million
in low-interest federal loans in 2009 to develop and build its
plug-in hybrid cars.  That hasn’t been enough to sustain operations after a
slower-than-expected startup, technical flaws that led to two
Karma recalls and the A123 bankruptcy. Fisker said last year
that the Energy Department blocked access to the loan after the
carmaker failed to meet an initial timetable for Karma
deliveries.  Temporary Furloughs  “In parallel with the process of identifying a strategic
partner, Fisker is, of course, continuing to manage its day-to-
day operations and has recently instituted temporary furloughs
for its U.S. workforce covering the final week of March,” the
company said this week in an e-mailed statement.  More than 200 employees are affected by the action,
Ormisher said.  “Cash is the bugaboo for startup car companies -- it
always has been,” said  Jim Hall , principal of consulting firm
2953 Analytics in Birmingham,  Michigan . “Undercapitalized car
companies aren’t car companies for long.”  Fisker’s Karma goes as far as 40 miles (64 kilometers) on
electricity before a gasoline engine kicks in. The company’s
U.S. loans came from the Advanced Technology Vehicle
Manufacturing program created under President  George W. Bush  to
help automakers build more fuel-efficient cars and trucks.  Loans were awarded in 2009 to  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,  Nissan Motor
Co. (7201) ,  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  and Fisker for the companies make
battery-electric and plug-in hybrid vehicles, part of an
initiative by President  Barack Obama  to get a million
rechargeable autos on U.S. roads by 2015.  Obama’s ‘Gamble’  “Another Obama green energy bet appears to be coming up
red,” Senator  John Thune , a South Dakota Republican, said in an
e-mailed statement. “President Obama’s multimillion dollar
gamble to manufacture $100,000 luxury electric vehicles in
 Finland  was questionable from the beginning. Today taxpayers are
closer to losing millions on another fledgling stimulus
project.”  While Fisker’s Karma was designed in the U.S., the car is
built under contract by Valmet Automotive Oy in Finland, an
arrangement set before it got the loans. Those funds can be used
only for engineering and assembly work in the U.S., a
requirement Fisker officials have said the company followed.  Fisker Automotive has said it’s in talks with potential
investors to raise funds to get a second model, the lower-priced
Atlantic plug-in car, into production. Fisker’s Ormisher
declined to discuss details of the company’s financial
situation.  Cost Control  The weeklong furlough is intended “to manage costs and
operations based on current activity levels and commercial
requirements and is not expected to materially impair Fisker’s
operations or the scope or timing of Fisker’s future business
plans,” the company said in the statement. The furlough was
reported earlier by Reuters.  Work on a Wilmington, Delaware, plant where Fisker wants to
build the Atlantic stopped more than a year ago, after access to
the remaining portion of its low-interest loan for the project
was blocked.  “Unfortunately, the taxpayers’ investment in Fisker
produced very little except a few  luxury vehicles  for pop
singers and movie stars,” Senator Chuck Grassley, an Iowa
Republican, said in an e-mailed statement.  Aoife McCarthy, an Energy Department spokeswoman in
 Washington , declined to comment on details or timing of Fisker’s
loan payments. The Energy Department “stopped payment on the
federal loan in 2011 after Fisker stopped meeting their
milestones, and is committed to the best outcome for
taxpayers,” McCarthy said.  Separately, Waltham, Massachusetts-based A123 said in a
U.S. regulatory filing yesterday that it has changed its name to
B456 Systems Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Jinks in  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  