-- Flaherty Said to Get Carney Replacement List Next Week
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-03-28T20:33:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/flaherty-said-to-get-carney-replacement-list-next-week.html
Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty 
should receive a short list of candidates to replace Bank of
Canada Governor  Mark Carney  after a meeting of the central
bank’s board of directors next week, said two people familiar
with the plans.  Flaherty will get the list after the two-day meeting in
Ottawa, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
the discussions are private. Flaherty, who has said that the
announcement could be made in April, will then interview the
people on the short list, with the appointment to be approved by
Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  and his cabinet.  The bank’s outside directors have been reviewing candidates
after posting the job Jan. 7, following Carney’s surprise
November announcement he would leave his job June 1 to take over
the  Bank of England . Analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co. have said
the most likely replacements are Senior Deputy Governor Tiff Macklem and Export Development Canada Chief Executive Officer
Stephen Poloz.  “The sooner the leadership is clarified, the better,”
 David Watt , chief economist in Toronto at HSBC Bank Canada, said
in a telephone interview. “You don’t necessarily want questions
being asked about the Bank of Canada’s inflation-fighting
credibility,” said Watt, a former senior economist at the
central bank.  Bank of Canada spokeswoman Dale Alexander declined to
comment. A spokesman for Flaherty didn’t immediately respond to
a phone call and an e-mail seeking comment.  Take Over  Whoever takes over from Carney must guide the world’s 11th
largest economy through a sluggish expansion threatened by weak
exports and record consumer debts. Carney and Macklem have kept
the bank’s  policy interest rate  at 1 percent since September
2010, the longest pause since the 1950s, and the bank said in a
March 6 statement that borrowing costs would probably “remain
appropriate for a period of time.”  The government wanted to look at a broad pool of
candidates, a person with knowledge of the process told
 Bloomberg News  in January. Flaherty issued a  statement  Jan. 16
that said he would be directly involved in the selection. He
said in an interview with Reuters that the announcement could
come in April.  The job has a seven-year renewable term and the salary
range for last year was C$431,800 ($424,900) to C$507,900. The
job advertisement called for “unquestioned technical
competence” in monetary policy and “a highly developed
understanding of the financial sector,” as well as
“exceptional communications skills” and ability in both
English and French.  The central bank is mandated to run monetary policy aiming
at a 2 percent target for inflation. Canada’s consumer price
 index  has risen below that target pace for the past 10 months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   %CAD  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  