-- Florida Gulf Coast Is Vegas Darling as Bets Pour in After Upsets
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-03-28T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/florida-gulf-coast-is-vegas-darling-as-bets-pour-in-after-upsets.html
Florida  Gulf Coast University
already has made history at the men’s national college
basketball tournament, and sports bettors in  Las Vegas  now are
counting on the high-flying Eagles to make them some money.  The  Fort Myers , Florida-based school, which didn’t begin
playing at college basketball’s highest level until 2007, is the
first No. 15 regional seed to win two games at a National
Collegiate Athletic Association tournament.  Since advancing to the regional semifinals four days ago --
joining schools with multiple national championships such as
 Indiana , Duke,  Kansas  and Louisville -- no team has been as
heavily bet to win this year’s title as Florida Gulf Coast,
according to the Las Vegas Hotel’s Super Book.  “They’ve been by far the most popular team,” LVH Super
Book assistant manager  Jeff Sherman  said in a telephone
interview. “We opened them at 100-1 on Monday and they’re down
to 60-1. They have four times as many tickets as the second-
closest teams, Oregon and Kansas.”  Louisville remains the favorite to win the championship,
with 3-1 odds at the LVH Super Book. Indiana is second at 9-2.  Before this week, Florida Gulf Coast didn’t have individual
odds to win the title, lumped in a “field” bet at 150-1 with
17 other schools. That changed this week when the Eagles
followed their opening-game upset of Georgetown with a victory
against San Diego State.  One LVH bettor wagered $1,000 on FGCU to win the title at
100-1 odds, meaning he or she would get a $100,000 payout if the
Eagles’ postseason run ends with them cutting down the nets at
the Georgia Dome in Atlanta on April 8.  Florida Matchup  Florida Gulf Coast needs to win four more games, starting
with tomorrow night’s South regional semifinal against the
University of Florida in Arlington,  Texas . The Gators, who won
back-to-back national titles in 2006 and 2007, are the third
seed in the region and 13-point favorites.  “It has the most action of all the Sweet 16 games,” Mark
Tutino, the race and sports supervisor at Caesars Palace, said
of the all-Florida matchup. “There are probably 5-to-1 more
tickets on Florida Gulf Coast than any other team. A lot of
small stuff for sure, but there’s quite a few tickets on them.”  The regional semifinals start with four games tonight, when
Indiana, the No. 1 seed in the East, plays fourth-seeded
Syracuse in  Washington  following the first game between No. 2
Miami and No. 3 Marquette. The East was the only region to have
its top four seeds advance to the round of 16.  Also tonight, No. 2 Ohio State plays No. 6  Arizona  in the
West regional in  Los Angeles , while ninth-seeded Wichita State
faces No. 13 LaSalle. Wichita State upset the region’s top seed,
Gonzaga, in its previous game and LaSalle is the sixth No. 13
seed to reach the tournament’s final 16 since 1985.  13th Seed  LaSalle actually has won three tournament games so far this
year, having also defeated Boise State in the First Four. The
high-scoring underdogs from Florida Gulf Coast, though, have
grabbed the headlines and the attention of bettors.  “They’re a fun team to watch,” Tutino said of Florida
Gulf Coast. “They’re not like your Princetons and your surprise
teams of the past. This team has some ballers, plays above the
rim, and that adds to the excitement for them.”  While the Eagles have averaged 73.5 points a game this
season, Florida has the largest average margin of victory of any
team this season at 18.2 points. That’s not dissuading the
majority of bettors in Las Vegas.  “We have the line up minus-13 against Florida and they’re
getting support at 7-1 odds to win that game outright,” Sherman
said. “There’s a lot of people who like what they saw. Florida
Gulf Coast is an exciting team to watch. I think that’s what has
made people buy into them, too.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  