-- Ford Sued in Class Action Claiming Sudden Acceleration
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-03-29T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/ford-sued-in-class-action-claiming-sudden-acceleration.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  was sued on behalf
of customers in 14 states over claims that its vehicles are
subject to unintentionally accelerating and lack fail-safe
measures to prevent crashes.  The complaint, filed yesterday in federal court in
Huntington, West Virginia, claims that Ford’s electronic
throttle system can take control of the accelerator and leave
drivers unable to stop the vehicle. The company added a brake
override system in its North American cars in 2010 that it
failed to include in older-model cars, according to the
complaint.  The plaintiffs seek compensation for the loss of vehicle
value, contending owners paid too much for cars from 2002 to
2010 with defects. Ford is accused of knowing of the alleged
defect and concealing it from consumers.  “Ford could have and should have prevented the dangers
presented by these foreseeable incidents by including” a brake
override system or other fail-safe measures in its vehicles,
according to the complaint. “Ford affirmatively concealed from
plaintiffs and the other class members the defect.”  Jay Cooney, a spokesman for Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford,
didn’t immediately respond to a call for comment on the
complaint.  14 States  The models named in the complaint include the 2005 through
2010 Ford Mustang, 2002 through 2005 Mercury Cougar and 2004
through 2010 Ford Explorer. The 19 named plaintiffs seek to
represent Ford owners in 14 states, including West Virginia, New
York,  Illinois  and  Florida .  “We anticipate that by the time this gets to trial, we
will have class representatives from all 50 states,” Adam Levitt, an attorney for the plaintiffs, said in a phone
interview yesterday. “This is a serious problem that affects
consumers across the U.S.”  The lawsuit is similar to class, or group, actions brought
against  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  alleging that recalls for unintended
acceleration issues hurt the value of U.S. customers’ vehicles.
Toyota, based in Aichi,  Japan , reached a $1.1 billion settlement
with consumers last year on the economic-loss claims.  “The bottom line is that cars have an unintended
acceleration problem, and as with Toyota, Ford failed to
integrate adequate fail-safe systems in the U.S.,” said Levitt,
with Grant & Eisenhofer in  Chicago . Some plaintiffs have
experienced sudden acceleration events, he said. “But this
isn’t a complaint involving personal injuries. It involves
economic loss.”  The case is Belville v. Ford Motor Co., 12-cv-06529, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of West Virginia (Huntington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  