-- Forties Trades at Two-Year Low; Asia Boosts West African Crude
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2013-03-28T13:38:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/forties-trades-at-two-year-low-asia-boosts-west-african-crude.html
North Sea Forties crude dropped to
the lowest in more than two years as Vitol Group sold two
cargoes of the grade. There were no bids or offers for Russian
Urals blend for a second day.  Refiners in Asia will increase imports of West African
crude for loading in April as  India  boosted purchases of
Nigerian grades to the most in 10 months while  Japan  bought a
record amount.  North Sea  Vitol sold Forties to Total for loading from April 12 to
April 14 at 90 cents a barrel less than Dated Brent, according
to a Bloomberg survey of traders and brokers monitoring the
Platts pricing window. That compares with a trade yesterday at
minus 65 cents to the benchmark and is the lowest since at least
Jan. 31 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Total also bought crude for loading April 16 to April 18
from Vitol at a 70-cent discount, the survey showed.  Reported crude trading typically occurs during the Platts
window, which ended at 12:30 p.m. London time, four hours
earlier than usual because of the Easter holiday weekend in
 Europe . Forties loading in 10 to 25 days narrowed by 5 cents to
a discount of 63 cents a barrel to Dated Brent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Brent for May settlement traded at $109.01 a barrel on the
ICE Futures Europe exchange in London at the close of the
window, compared with $109.29 in the previous session. The June
contract was at $108.71, a discount of 30 cents to May.  One more Forties cargo for loading in April has been
advanced, according to two people with knowledge of the matter.
A total of 14 of the 21 cargoes for loading next month will now
be shipped earlier than originally scheduled, they said, asking
not to be identified as the information is confidential.  Mediterranean/Urals  There were no bids or offers for Russian Urals, the Platts
survey showed.  The Urals discount to Dated Brent in the Mediterranean
widened by 5 cents to $1.10 a barrel, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. In northwest Europe, the  discount  was at $2.15 a barrel,
compared with minus $2.08 in the previous session. That’s the
widest since March 12.  West Africa  Benchmark Nigerian Qua Iboe blend rose by 3 cents to $3.25
a barrel more than Dated Brent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Asia bought 57 cargoes totaling 1.74 million barrels a day
from  Angola , Nigeria, Equatorial Guinea, Republic of Congo,
Gabon,  Ghana  and Democratic Republic of Congo, according to a
survey of five traders and an analysis of loading plans obtained
by Bloomberg News. That compares with 1.6 million in March and
is the most since 1.8 million in January.  PT Pertamina Persero,  Indonesia ’s state-owned oil company,
bought 1.9 million barrels of crude for June delivery to its
Cilacap refinery, said a company official who asked not to be
identified because the transaction is confidential.  The company will take 950,000 barrels of Nigeria’s Qua Iboe
crude and the same amount of Azeri Light oil from Azerbaijan,
said the official.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in  London  at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Raj Rajendran at 
 rrajendran4@bloomberg.net  