-- Fridman-Led Takeover Bid for Vodka Maker CEDC Withdrawn
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2013-03-28T22:13:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/fridman-led-takeover-bid-for-vodka-maker-cedc-withdrawn.html
A consortium that was competing
with Russian billionaire Roustam Tariko for control of Polish
vodka producer  Central European Distribution Corp. (CEDC)  withdrew its
takeover offer today.  Fellow billionaire  Mikhail Fridman ’s A1, CEDC shareholder
and bond investor  Mark Kaufman  and SPI Group, which sells
Stolichnaya vodka, each announced their were withdrawing in
separate e-mailed statements today. CEDC acknowledged the
alternate proposal had been withdrawn in a statement today, and
said it hadn’t received any other offers.  Kaufman decided to withdraw after assessing CEDC’s demands
for a higher restructuring bid, their recent financial results
and the costs of the group’s proposed U.S. bankruptcy filing,
Cyril Benoit, a Paris-based banker advising the investor, said
by phone today. Benoit said he couldn’t comment on why A1 and
SPI walked away.  The group’s pre-packaged bankruptcy proposal competed with
a restructuring takeover offer from Tariko’s Roust Trading,
which CEDC reiterated today it continues to back. The Warsaw-
based company, whose  shares  sank 50 percent in New York last
year amid management changes and faltering sales, was unable to
repay $258 million of notes due March 15. CEDC earned two-thirds
of 2012  sales  in  Russia , where it produces Zelyonaya Marka,
Parliament and Zhuravli vodka. Tariko owns the Russian Standard
vodka company.  The A1 consortium is affiliated with Russia’s OAO Alfa
Bank. CEDC acquired Kaufman’s Russian liquor importer Whitehall
Group in stages between May 2008 and February 2011. Whitehall
imports drinks including the Hennessy,  Dom Perignon , Moet &
Chandon and Veuve Clicquot brands.  Tariko Plan  Creditor votes on whether to accept Tariko’s plan are due
April 4. So far holders of more than half of the principal
amount due on 2016 bonds and 73 percent of 2013 bonds have
backed the Tariko plan, CEDC said today.  As a bondholder, Kaufman won’t vote in favor of Tariko’s
plan, said Benoit, his adviser. Kaufman objects to Tariko’s
proposals including the idea that some junior creditors would be
paid when all senior holdings haven’t been repaid, Benoit said.  The counteroffer group withdrew their bid one day after
their lawyers and bankers held separate calls with bondholders
and media to discuss the merits of their plan.  CEDC shares rose 11 percent to 33.5 cents in  New York . The
stock is down 85 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  