-- FSA Fails to Reach 16th Birthday as Crisis Spoils Teenage Years
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-03-28T01:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/fsa-fails-to-reach-16th-birthday-as-crisis-spoils-teenage-years.html
The U.K. Financial Services
Authority will be swept away next week after nearly 16 years,
replaced by two new regulators with greater powers to intrude
into banks’ business models, ban sales of financial products and
name and shame suspects.  The Financial Conduct Authority in  London  will carry on the
bulk of the consumer work of the FSA starting Monday. The
Prudential Regulation Authority, which will be a unit of the
 Bank of England  under incoming Governor  Mark Carney , will be
responsible for the stability of the banking industry.  The FSA, the brainchild of then-Chancellor of the Exchequer
 Gordon Brown , was created in 1997 after scandals in the 1990s
such as fraud cases at Barings Plc and Bank of Credit & Commerce
International dented confidence in London’s finance industry.
The scandals of the 2008 credit crunch undid the FSA, however,
as lawmakers criticized the regulator for failing to prevent the
rescues of Northern Rock Plc, Royal Bank of Scotland Plc and
Lloyds Banking Group Plc.  “The old line was that the FSA wasn’t there to second-
guess,” said Carlos Conceicao, the former head of the
watchdog’s wholesale enforcement division and now a partner at
Clifford Chance LLP in London. “Now it’s the regulator in the
boardroom. It’s a very different ethos, and if you’re going down
that interventionist route it relies on the people who are
doing those interventions'' being properly informed.  George Osborne , now the Chancellor of the Exchequer, 
pledged  to retire the FSA in 2010 as part of the campaign to 
unseat  Brown's Labour party. As part of his overhaul, the FCA 
will have powers to quickly ban risky products, intervene in
marketing and publish information on investigations before they
result in charges or a settlement.  Libor Probe  The FCA, which is taking the FSA’s headquarters in  Canary
Wharf  with around 2,800 employees, will be in charge of the old
agency’s high-profile investigation into the rigging of
benchmark  interest rates  such as Libor. Financial regulators in
the U.K. and the U.S. have already imposed more than $2.5
billion in fines on  Barclays Plc (BARC) , UBS AG and RBS and more banks
are under investigation.  “The FCA wants to be perceived as a regulator that is
swift to act, so it’s unlikely to backtrack on the aggressive
stance adopted recently by the FSA,” said Arnondo Chakrabarti,
a lawyer at Allen & Overy LLP in London. “There is a danger
that if they become too aggressive they jeopardize working
relationships with the banks in a way that proves to be
detrimental to their goals.”  BOE Adjacent  The PRA, which will be based in the  City of London  in the
former headquarters of broker JP Morgan Cazenove Ltd., close to
the Bank of  England , will be responsible for setting capital,
liquidity and bonus rules, and oversee the stability of the
banking and insurance industries.  Andrew Bailey , the last chief
executive officer of the FSA, will run the PRA and oversee about
1,100 people.  Bailey has promised to intervene in potential banking
crises earlier and allow lenders to fail in an orderly manner.
The PRA will keep a “very close eye on banks,” and require
them “to have very clear lending policies,” Bailey said in a
video interview on the Bank of England’s website.  The Bank of England’s Financial Policy Committee, which has
been operating on an interim basis since 2011, will also be
established on April 1. Osborne this week named former London
Stock Exchange CEO Clara Furse as an external member of the
panel.  Donald Kohn ,  Martin Taylor  and ex-Goldman Sachs executive
Richard Sharp were also appointed.  Carney in Charge  The financial-supervisory role is one of a series of
changes at the three-century-old Bank of England this year. In
addition to sweeping new powers, Osborne has revamped its
inflation-targeting remit to give it more flexibility to provide
support to the economy. It is also preparing to welcome Carney,
who will become the first foreigner to lead the institution when
he succeeds  Mervyn King  in July.  Even with the greater powers being given to the Bank of
England to oversee lenders, the PRA may be forced to implement
European Union rules with which it disagrees. These include
plans to cap bankers’ bonuses at twice fixed salary and maximum
levels of capital for banks.  “On both issues, in terms of capital ceilings and bonus
caps, the bank has fought through the government for more
flexibility,” said Lindsay Thomas, a former FSA director who is
now an adviser at risk management company Sustainable Risks in
London. European harmonization “could be a major constraint,”
he said.  ‘Light Touch’  The FSA was heavily criticized by lawmakers during the
financial crisis for failing to crack down on wrongdoing,
including  insider trading . Its “light-touch” regulation model
during the boom times was widely blamed for allowing banks to
take unnecessary risks. The regulator apologized for the tactic
and changed its approach, with then-CEO Hector Sants warning in
2009 that people “should be frightened” of the FSA.  One area where the FSA bared its teeth was tackling insider
trading. The regulator hadn’t prosecuted a single case until
2008, when it successfully took on a former general counsel of a
Motorola Inc. unit.  Since then, it has increased its efficacy, going from
prosecuting a dentist and his son in 2009 to targeting rings of
bankers working in London’s financial district. It is currently
prosecuting six people, has convicted 23 people in total and
arrested eight people so far this year.  No Laughing  “For a long time, and I’m going back even before the FSA,
City regulators were always being laughed at by people in the
City,” said  Robert Brown , a lawyer at Corker Binning in London.
“I don’t think they do that anymore, especially when it comes
to criminal enforcement.”  The FSA’s full range of powers came into effect in 2001,
giving it oversight not only of securities dealers, banks and
insurers, but also the functions of seven other bodies, covering
everything from building societies to derivatives dealers. It
also got the power to levy unlimited fines on a broader range of
people and firms that flout U.K. trading rules.  With the changeover on April 1, the FCA and PRA will end
the FSA era.  “This is what we’ve got, and you can see there are
merits,” Conceicao said. “Whether it works, I think that’s
more down to other factors,” such as “culture, approach and
quality of actual supervision-the depth and understanding
regulators have of the issues.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  