-- Gardner Denver Sued by Investor Ove KKR Buyout Offer
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-03-28T18:52:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/gardner-denver-sued-by-investor-ove-kkr-buyout-offer.html
Gardner Denver Inc. (GDI)  was sued by an
investor claiming  KKR & Co. (KKR) ’s planned $3.7 billion buyout
undervalues the industrial-equipment maker.  Gardner Denver directors breached their fiduciary duties by
accepting an insufficient offer that furthers the interests of a
majority stakeholder, investor Daniel White said in a complaint
filed yesterday in Delaware Chancery Court. White blamed the
proposed deal on pressure from ValueAct Holdings LP, the
company’s third-largest investor. ValueAct isn’t named as a
defendant in the case.  The sales process “was being run in an unnecessarily
hurried fashion which deprived the board of the opportunity to
make a fully informed decision and ultimately favored KKR’s
offer,” White said in his complaint.  KKR, the New York-based private-equity firm run by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , announced March 8 that it would pay
$76 a share for Wayne, Pennsylvania-based Gardner Denver after
raising its offer from $75 a share. The deal, expected to close
in the third quarter, is valued at $3.9 billion including the
assumption of Gardner Denver’s debt.  Vikram Kini, a Gardner Denver spokesman, didn’t immediately
respond to a call today seeking comment on the complaint.  Gardner Denver began reviewing a sale after ValueAct
pressed for a deal. The sale to KKR comes after rival  SPX Corp. (SPW) 
and private-equity firms Advent International Corp. and the team
of Onex Corp. and TPG Capital walked away from takeover
discussions.  “Ceding to the demands of ValueAct, the board is allowing
KKR to acquire the company at an inadequate price,” White said
in the complaint.  White is seeking to represent all Gardner Denver
shareholders in his bid to bar the transaction.  The case is White v. Larsen, CA8439, Delaware Chancery
Court (Wilmington)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  