-- Gazprom Drops Most in Six Weeks as Dividend Outlook Dims
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-03-28T15:18:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/gazprom-drops-most-in-six-weeks-as-dividend-outlook-dims.html
OAO Gazprom (OGZPY)  fell the most in six
weeks on concern the world’s biggest natural gas producer will
pay a lower-than-forecast dividend after demand for its fuel
weakened in  Europe  and at home.  Gazprom slumped as much as 3.1 percent to 131.98 rubles,
the lowest since April 2009, before closing down 2.2 percent at
133.21 rubles in Moscow, the most since Feb. 14. Depositary
receipts lost 1.4 percent to $8.54 today. The Russian gas export
monopoly’s  American depositary receipts  defied a rebound in the
 Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  yesterday, sinking 1.9 percent
to $8.66, the lowest level in three weeks.  Profit at state-run Gazprom, which supplies a quarter of
Europe’s gas, dropped 37 percent to 556 billion rubles ($18
billion) last year, according to a report prepared to local
accounting standards and published late yesterday. That
translates into a dividend of 5.9 rubles a share given the
company’s policy of returning 25 percent of profit to
shareholders.  “The numbers imply a dividend way below our expectations,
which clearly undermines sentiment in the stock,” Lev Snykov, a
partner at Greenwich Capital in Moscow, which holds Gazprom
shares, said yesterday by phone. “It is now unclear whether
investors can count on Gazprom as a dividend story going
forward.”  The second-cheapest stock on  Russia ’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF) , Gazprom
estimated a payment of 7 rubles to 8 rubles last month, while
analysts forecast 7.84 rubles, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Gazprom’s press service declined by phone today to comment
on planned payouts.  ‘Substantially Lower’  Gazprom paid a record-high dividend of 8.97 rubles a share
for 2011. The company has been distributing 25 percent of its
profit reported under Russian accounting standards in dividends
since 2010 and plans to do so again for the years 2012 and 2013,
Chief Financial Officer Andrey Kruglov said in June.  “We believe that investors are likely to be disappointed
that the company’s prospective dividends are substantially lower
than guided,” analysts at VTB Capital, led by Dmitry Loukashov,
said in a note today. The analysts said the financial results
were in line with their view of the company facing “a
deteriorating operating and market environment.”  The gas producer is yet to approve its payout for 2012. It
could pay from 17.5 percent to 35 percent of net income in
dividends under its current policy, Alexander Kornilov and
Ekaterina Malkova, analysts at  Alfa Bank , said in a research
note today.  ‘Bleak’ Future  Gazprom reduced shipments to Europe 7 percent in 2012 and
recognized 133.2 billion rubles of retroactive payments to
customers in the first nine months of the year. An increase in
the mineral extraction tax also hurt Gazprom’s profitability,
Ron Smith and  Alexander Bespalov , analysts at Citigroup Inc. in
Moscow, wrote in a research note.  “The future becomes even bleaker for Gazprom,” Ilya Kravets, director of investment research at Daniloff Capital LLC
in New York, said by phone yesterday. Daniloff Capital sold all
of its Gazprom shares last month, concerned about the gas
company’s profits deteriorating. “I am not comfortable with it
longer term. As competition tightens for Gazprom at home and
demand for gas from European consumers declines, the investment
case for Gazprom is worsening.”  Monopoly Threatened  Gazprom’s control of Russian gas exports may be scrapped,
Russian Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  said in a Jan. 23
interview. The state-controlled company was granted a legal
monopoly by President  Vladimir Putin  in 2006.  One ADR equals two Moscow-listed shares. Trading volume in
New York was almost triple the daily average over the past three
months, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The company trades at three times estimated earnings in
Moscow, the second-cheapest equity on the 50-stock Micex Index
after OAO Transneft, which trades at 2.6 times projected profit,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Micex has an average dividend yield of 4 percent, the
highest level since March 3, 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The yield for companies in the Bloomberg Russia-US
gauge has more than doubled to 4.3 percent from 1.6 percent in
July, the data show. Dividend yields are calculated by dividing
annual dividends per share by the price per share and expressing
it as a percentage.  Gazprom’s 12-month gross dividend yield of 6.6 percent is
less than a fourth of oil producer TNK-BP’s yield at 27 percent,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. OAO Rosneft bought TNK-BP from
BP Plc and AAR partners for $55 billion last week, the country’s
biggest ever deal, and may cut TNK-BP dividend payouts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;
Halia Pavliva in  New York  at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  