-- German Unemployment Unexpectedly Rises Amid Euro Crisis
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-03-28T11:53:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/german-unemployment-unexpectedly-rises-amid-euro-crisis.html
German unemployment unexpectedly
rose in March as renewed tensions in financial markets increased
concerns the euro region’s recovery will falter.  The number of people out of work increased a seasonally
adjusted 13,000 to 2.94 million, the Nuremberg-based Federal
Labor Agency said today. Economists had predicted a decline of
2,000, according to the median of 24 estimates in a  Bloomberg
News survey . The  adjusted jobless rate  held at 6.9 percent,
slightly above a two-decade low of 6.8 percent.  The euro area, the country’s largest export market, remains
mired in recession and Cyprus’s botched bailout is weighing on
German confidence. Still, the labor market has helped boost
consumption, with a second increase in a row for retail sales
last month supporting the Bundesbank’s forecast that the economy
will return to growth this quarter.  “The harsh and long winter hurt  Germany ’s labor market,
but the increase in unemployment by 13,000 in March will
probably remain a temporary blip,” said Christian Schulz,
senior economist at Berenberg Bank in  London . “The job market
may not be quite as buoyant as in the last couple of years but
it remains very healthy.”  Job Cuts  The euro recovered after earlier losses and was trading at
$1.2715 at 12:49 a.m. in Frankfurt, up 0.3 percent from
yesterday.  Europe ’s benchmark Stoxx 600 index rose 0.6 percent
to 294.25.  In the U.K., services industries expanded in January,
indicating some strength in the economy at the start of the
first quarter. House prices rose 0.8 percent in March, the first
annual increase since February last year, Nationwide Building
Society said today, adding that the outlook is “unusually
uncertain.”  Consumer confidence  remained unchanged.  In the U.S., revised figures from the Commerce Department
may show the economy expanded at a 0.5 percent annual pace in
the fourth quarter, faster than the government’s previous
estimate of 0.1 percent growth, according to the median forecast
in a Bloomberg News survey.  The European Central Bank cut its economic forecasts this
month and now expects the euro-area economy to shrink 0.5
percent this year before growing 1 percent in 2014. While ECB
President Mario Draghi foresees a gradual recovery later this
year, the economic risks are still “on the downside,” he said
on March 7.  Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s biggest engineering company, is
preparing to eliminate as many as 1,400 jobs at three sites of
its energy and infrastructure businesses to bolster
profitability, according to two people familiar with the matter.  Export Markets  Some German companies are making up for lower demand from
the 17-nation currency bloc with sales to faster-growing markets
outside Europe.  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s truck division plans to increase vehicle
sales, profit and market share this year on its expansion in
 emerging markets  and demand in  Brazil , Andreas Renschler, head
of the carmaker’s truck unit, said on March 13.  Schaeffler AG, the industrial-bearing maker that’s the
biggest investor in car-parts producer  Continental AG (CON) , said last
week demand in North America and Asia will more than offset a
drop in Europe to allow sales growth in 2013.  Chinese industrial companies’ profits rose 17.2 percent in
the January-February period, extending a four-month streak of
gains and bolstering a rebound in the world’s second-biggest
economy, the National Bureau of Statistics said today.  Domestic Demand  The Bundesbank forecasts growth of 0.4 percent this year,
with exports and factory output helping the German economy
gather momentum.  Consumption may get a boost from higher wages. German
workers won deals of as much as 6.5 percent last year and IG
Metall, the country’s most powerful labor union, is seeking pay
increases of 5.5 percent in 2013.  German retail sales unexpectedly rose for a second month in
February, adding to signs the domestic economy is returning to
growth. Sales, adjusted for inflation and seasonal swings,
gained 0.4 percent from January, when they surged a revised 3.0
percent, the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today.  “The German labor market is robust, despite the
uncertainty about the euro area,” said Lothar Hessler, an
economist at HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG in Dusseldorf. “The
unemployment rate will move sideways this year before posting
new record lows in 2014.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Riecher in  Frankfurt  at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  