-- EU Lawmaker Opposes German Push to Speed Bank Loss Rules
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-03-28T16:14:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/germany-seeks-to-fast-track-eu-rules-on-bank-failures.html
The European Parliament lawmaker
managing the bloc’s bank-resolution bill pushed back against a
German-led effort to speed rules on creditor writedowns when
lenders fail.  “Markets and investors need time to adjust,”Gunnar Hoekmark, a Swedish legislator in charge of the Brussels-based
assembly’s work on a draft law handling  bank failures  in the 27-
nation bloc, said in a post on Twitter. Rules imposing creditor
writedowns will be most effective if they are implemented after
other parts of the law have already come into force, he said.  Germany,  Finland , the Netherlands and  Denmark  say so-called
bail-in rules should be phased in by 2015 along with other parts
of the law, rather than in 2018 as the European Commission has
proposed, according to a briefing paper obtained by  Bloomberg
News . The four say investors are anticipating the new regime and
delays could interfere with that process, according to the
paper, prepared for March 21-22 technical meetings in Brussels.  Losses imposed on depositors and senior creditors in Cyprus
roiled markets this week, as the EU continues to hash out how to
handle failing banks on a case-by-case basis. The banking
resolution law is under discussion now, and proposals are
expected later this year to create a central agency to handle
bank resolutions.  Cyprus became a testing ground for investor losses when
euro-area authorities this week required restructuring of the
country’s two biggest banks as a condition of a 10 billion-euro
rescue. The Cyprus program, billed by European policy makers as
a unique case, imposes losses on bondholders and uninsured
depositors and was accompanied by  capital controls  to limit
contagion.  ECB Supervision  EU lawmakers and national governments agreed on March 19 to
a provisional deal to turn the  European Central Bank  into a
supervisor for banks in the  euro zone  and other willing nations.
The EU also is working on proposals to standardize procedures
for insuring deposits and shutting down banks. Proposals for a
common bank resolution framework are due later this year.  Nations are also weighing a proposal that would allow
regulators to require banks to hold a minimum amount of a new
class of convertible debt specifically designed to absorb losses
if needed. This should be considered separately from the rules
to facilitate writedowns, the paper from  Germany , Finland, the
Netherlands and Denmark said.  June Deadline  EU leaders have set a June deadline for governments and the
European Parliament to agree on legislation setting out how
authorities should handle bank failures, including through so-
called creditor bail-ins. In the absence of such a system,
nations have injected 1.7 trillion euros ($2.2 trillion) into
their banking systems since the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., according to European Commission data.  No decisions have been made on whether or how to alter the
existing proposal, according to a spokesperson for Ireland,
which holds the EU’s rotating presidency and is coordinating
negotiations among nations, the European Commission and the
European parliament. Spokespeople for Germany, Finland and the
Netherlands declined to comment.  The document from Germany and its allies refers to EU
Internal Market and Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier ’s
current proposal on handling bank failures. Germany, Finland and
the Netherlands renewed their call, now joined by Denmark, for
the new rules to take effect in 2015, instead of 2018 as
proposed, and said the new framework should be available as a
way to break the vicious circle of countries and their banks
dragging each other down.  “We strongly believe that making all tools in the
directive available by 2015 will allow resolution authorities to
safeguard taxpayers’ money more effectively with immediate
positive consequences,” the document said.  “As soon as there are credible alternatives for financing
bank failures, risks inherent to the banking sector will have a
significantly weaker adverse impact on sovereign funding
conditions,” the paper said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  