-- Gilead Hits Record High on Analyst’s View of Higher Sales
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2013-03-28T20:06:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/gilead-hits-record-high-on-analyst-s-view-of-higher-sales.html
Shares of  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) , the
world’s biggest maker of AIDS medicines, hit a record high after
ISI Group analyst  Mark Schoenebaum  said sales estimates must go
“way way up” on its experimental hepatitis C therapy.  Gilead  rose  2.6 percent to $48.94 at the close of trading
in New York, the company’s highest price since its stock debuted
in January 1992. Shares of the Foster City, California-based
company have doubled in the past 12 months.  Gilead’s sales from its hepatitis C treatment in the U.S.
alone could reach $6.5 billion in 2014 or 2015 after it wins
regulatory clearance, Schoenebaum said, while analysts’
estimates average $4.2 billion for those years combined.  “I realize this number may freak you out,” Schoenebaum
wrote today in a note to clients. “Remember, all of this
ignores ex-U.S. sales.”  Gilead is among drugmakers seeking to develop new hepatitis
C treatments that act more quickly with fewer side effects than
the current standard of care. Analysts estimate a market of $20
billion for the new pills to treat as many as 170 million people
worldwide with the disease. Patients with the liver disease
currently are prescribed drugs, including injectables that may
cause flu-like symptoms, for as long as a year.  Research presented in November at the meeting of the
American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases in  Boston 
showed that combining Gilead’s experimental drugs with a
standard medicine cleared the hepatitis C virus in all 25
patients in a 12-week trial.  “Gilead could utterly annihilate 2014 consensus numbers,”
Schoenebaum wrote in a March 21 note. “I have a hard time
believing the stock doesn’t continue to go higher. And in a
worse case, stock probably won’t go down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  