-- GM Seeks to Save $200 Million by Increasing Resale Values
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-03-29T04:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/gm-seeks-to-save-200-million-by-increasing-resale-values.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , seeking to
boost its profit margins, says it can save as much as $200
million annually by improving resale values of its vehicles and
further narrowing the gap with competitors who don’t have to
spend as much to offer lease deals.  The automaker’s so-called residual values rose to 44
percent last year from 36.5 percent in 2009 when the company
went through bankruptcy reorganization, according ALG Inc., the
Santa Barbara, California-based company that sets resale values.
Higher residuals help automakers offer lower monthly lease
payments because the cost is based upon the projected resale
value when the contract ends.  GM’s lower resale values relative to rivals mean the
automaker spends an additional $150 million to $200 million
annually to make its lease payments competitive, Chuck Stevens,
chief financial officer for GM North America, told analysts
March 27 at a Bank of America Corp. forum in New York.  “The key will be great products and pricing and incentive
discipline,” Stevens said. “It’s that simple.”  Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson is pushing the company
to boost operating margins to be more competitive with Ford
Motor Co. and  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)  GM is bringing about 20 new
vehicles to the U.S. this year after its models had grown stale
following bankruptcy. U.S. market share fell to an 88-year-low
last year.  Industry Gains  GM’s increase in residual values compares with a rise in
the industry average to 46.5 percent last year from 42.7 percent
in 2009. Ford rose to 45 percent from 39.6 percent and Chrysler
Group LLC increased to 44 percent from 36.4 percent while  Honda
Motor Co. (7267) ’s Honda, the major auto brand with the best resale
value, declined to 51.5 percent from 52.3 percent, ALG said.  Closing the resale value gap is part of GM’s efforts to
boost its adjusted earnings before interest and taxes margin in
North America to 10 percent from 7.4 percent during the past
three years, Stevens said.  “Residual values, at the end of the day, are the ultimate
acid test of whether the vehicle has been successful,” Alan Batey, GM’s top U.S. sales executive and interim chief marketing
officer, said this week in an interview at the  New York auto
show . “Was it well received, did it have good quality and is it
desirable, did people really want to buy it?”  Building Retention  New vehicles, such as the Chevrolet Cruze, and a strategy
to avoid hurting those models with too many discounts and
capping sales to rental car companies have helped, Batey said.  “I like leasing,” he said. “You build retention with the
customer. If you’ve got really strong residual values and you’re
not having to discount heavily to hit certain lease rates, it’s
great business.”  GM’s Cadillac luxury brand saw the largest improvement
among the company’s four U.S. brands, rising to 45.6 percent
from 34.7 percent, according to ALG. The automaker began selling
two new sedans last year and this week revealed a redesigned CTS
sedan in New York.  The automaker continues the effort with the redesigned
Chevrolet Impala, arriving in U.S. showrooms next month.  GM sold few Impalas through lease last year, about 1
percent, Russ Clark, a Chevy marketing director, said. With the
new Impala, the company is aiming for as much as 20 percent as
the company seeks to increase the rate of sales to retail
customers from 30 percent of deliveries to 70 percent, Clark
said.  GM also wants to boost sales in Californa and the East
Coast, which do more leasing than other parts of the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in New York at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  