-- Google Said to Plan to Make Glasses in U.S. With Foxconn
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-03-28T11:08:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/google-said-to-plan-to-make-glasses-in-u-s-with-foxconn.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  plans to make digital
eyeglasses in the U.S. with Foxconn Technology Group according
to a person familiar with the plans.  The eyeware, designed by Google and featuring software and
cameras, will be made by the Taiwanese company at its factory in
California, the person said, asking not to be identified because
the plans are not public.  Google co-founder  Sergey Brin  is touting the device, dubbed
Project Glass, as the future of mobile computing after
 describing  smartphones as “emasculating.” Fashion designers,
skydivers, acrobats and pilots have been  used  by Google to
demonstrate the eyeglass computers, according to posts on the
project’s Website.  The Financial Times reported earlier today Foxconn’s
flagship,  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317) , will make the device.  Louis Woo, a spokesman for Foxconn and Jay Nancarrow, a
spokesman for Google, both declined to comment.  Foxconn, based in Taipei, is the world’s largest contract
manufacturer of electronics and the primary supplier of iPhones,
iPads and iPods for  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Its factories in China and Brazil
make as many as 400,000 iPhones per day.  Google, founded in 1998 by Brin and  Larry Page , has grown
to become the world’s largest Internet-search company with
annual  revenue  last year of $50 billion. The Mountain View,
California-based company entered the hardware business in 2008
when it released the G1 handset in conjunction with Taiwan’s  HTC
Corp. (2498)  as part of its strategy to promote the Android mobile
operating system.  Reduce Reliance  Securing orders from Google could be a boost for Foxconn
and help it reduce reliance on Apple, which accounts for about
40 percent of its revenue, as the Cupertino, California-based
company loses share to handsets using Android.  Google plans to invite a limited number of users to test
the interactive glasses in the next few days after conducting an
online competition, it  said  yesterday. For $1,500 developers
could buy the device, whose features include taking a picture by
voice command, Brin said in February.  In June, Brin said he expected to make the device available
to product testers early this year with a broader consumer
offering by 2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net 
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Fenner at   rfenner@bloomberg.net . 