-- Google Releases Street View Images From Fukushima Ghost Town
-- B y   T e r j e   L a n g e l a n d   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-03-28T22:21:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/google-releases-street-view-images-from-fukushima-ghost-town.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  released images taken
by its Street View service from the town of Namie, Japan, inside
the zone that was evacuated after the Fukushima nuclear disaster
in March 2011.  Google, operator of the world’s biggest Web search engine,
entered Namie this month at the invitation of the town’s mayor,
Tamotsu Baba, and produced the 360-degree imagery for the  Google
Maps  and Google Earth services, it said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement.  All of Namie’s 21,000 residents were forced to flee after
the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami crippled the Fukushima
Dai-Ichi nuclear plant, about 8 kilometers (5 miles) from the
town, causing the world’s worst nuclear accident after
Chernobyl. Baba asked Mountain View, California-based Google to
map the town to create a permanent record of its state two years
after the evacuation, he said in a Google blog post.  “Many of the displaced townspeople have asked to see the
current state of their city, and there are surely many people
around the world who want a better sense of how the nuclear
incident affected surrounding communities,” Baba said in the
post. “It has become our generation’s duty to make sure future
generations understand the city’s history and culture.”  Three reactors melted down at the Dai-Ichi plant, operated
by  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) , after the earthquake and tsunami.
About 160,000 people were forced to evacuate and a 20-kilometer
no-go zone was set up because of radiation fallout.  Cars, Coke  Street View images show a city frozen in time with
abandoned cars and Coca-Cola Co. vending machines still full of
drinks. At the “Friend Shop” near highway 6, weeds were
growing in the parking lot and the windows still had clothing
hanging on display. In another scene, Street View shows a
building façade falling apart with rubble in the street.  Google began gathering the Street View images earlier this
month, a process that took about two weeks in a single car,
Google said in an e-mailed statement. Once completed, company
staff worked all weekend to stitch the images together digitally
to create the  Street View  images.  By providing a memento of the past, the images can
facilitate residents’ healing, said  Mary Comerio , a professor of
architecture at the University of California, Berkeley.  “It’s obviously a way to record the quality of life that
existed in that place and to recognize the special quality of
each person’s home and each property,” she said. “If they make
a choice to recreate somewhere else, they have a kind of
archaeological record of what they had before.”  Katrina, Haiti  This isn’t the first time that Google Street View and other
mapping services have been used after a disaster. Following
Hurricane Katrina in 2005, Google used its Street View
technology to assist in the recovery effort. Relief workers used
 OpenStreetMap  to provide aid to survivors of the earthquake that
devastated Haiti in 2010, said Mike Dobson, president of
 TeleMapics LLC , a consulting firm, and former chief cartographer
at Rand McNally & Co.  “Humans are used to looking outwards and upwards -- and
that’s what street view does so well; it mimics the way we see
things,” Dobson said. “People’s desire to know how to get
between places is a compelling urge. This expands the horizon.”  Soon after the disasters in  Japan , Google  released  aerial
images of affected areas. It also offered  services  to help
victims touch base with friends and loved ones.  Street View’s images also serve as a reminder of the risks
of growth in a region susceptible to tsunamis, said  Dana
Buntrock , who also teaches at the University of California at
Berkeley and is affiliated with the school’s Center for Japanese
Studies.  “Right after the earthquake, people recalled that in much
earlier periods there were often stone monuments put up in the
locations where the tsunami had reached, and people said, ‘Wow,
we really allowed ourselves to forget,’” Buntrock said. “The
entire coast along there has been built up in ways that created
vulnerabilities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terje Langeland in Tokyo at 
 tlangeland1@bloomberg.net 
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Fenner at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net  