-- Graham Pitches Immigration at Home, 2014 Challenger Looms
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2013-03-28T04:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/graham-pitches-immigration-at-home-2014-challenger-looms.html
It’s just after lunchtime at the
Lexington, South Carolina Chick-Fil-A, and  Stephen Lewis  is
giving U.S.  Senator Lindsey Graham  a piece of his mind about
undocumented immigrants.  “Why can’t they understand the word ‘illegal?’” Lewis, a
72-year-old retired Marine, asks Graham on March 26 as the
senator swings by his table to shake hands. “They’re not
undocumented workers, they’re illegal folks in this country, and
if you’re illegal doing anything, then you should be punished
and made to pay for it.”  It’s a familiar gripe to Graham. A second-term Republican,
he has long led the effort in  Washington  to allow undocumented
immigrants living in the U.S., currently estimated to number
about 11 million, a chance to become citizens as part of a broad
immigration rewrite.  Now as Graham, 57, teams with three other Republicans and
four Democrats to finalize such a bill, he is working to answer
the complaints of  South Carolina  voters while keeping an eye on
any potential Republican primary challenge to his re-election
next year.  “There’s a sea change happening in the  Republican Party  on
this, and I see it here,” Graham says in an interview as sips
Coke Zero while riding from his Columbia office to Mrs. B’s
Southern Kitchen to greet voters. “If I can sell it in South
Carolina, don’t come to me and say it’s hard. This is a
conservative state, and the way we’re selling it is to fix it.”  Improving Environment  With Congress on a two-week vacation, Graham is traveling
his skeptical state as aides to the so-called “Gang of Eight”
senators haggle over the specifics in Washington. The Senate
group is pushing to unveil its measure the week of April 8.  President  Barack Obama  said yesterday he is confident an
immigration bill will pass in the next several months, and  New
York  SenatorCharles Schumer, a Democratic member of the
bipartisan group, said the aides are “90 percent” done with a
draft of the bill.”  Graham is making his stand as the environment for an
immigration rewrite is improving on various fronts. A growing
number of Republicans -- including the  Republican National
Committee  -- are urging lawmakers to drop opposition to
legalizing undocumented immigrants after the 2012 presidential
elections showed their standing with Hispanic voters had hit
rock-bottom.  A Public Religion Research Institute  poll  of 4,465 people
released March 21 found that more than six in 10 respondents,
including a majority of Republicans, backed a path to
citizenship for undocumented immigrants as long as they met
certain requirements.  ‘Grahamnesty’  “Attitudes about immigration are very strong, but they’re
also evolving in the Republican community,” said  Whit Ayres , a
polling expert who advises Graham. “There’s far more openness
toward a reasonable and defensible immigration reform than there
was even six months ago.”  Still, it’s not a simple argument to make, particularly for
Graham, who earned the ire of core party activists for his past
efforts on the issue. Opponents derisively nicknamed his work as
“Grahamnesty.” After the collapse of a 2007 rewrite pushed by
President  George W. Bush , Graham backed off his advocacy and --
with his own approval ratings at home plummeting -- refused in
2010 to participate in a bid by Obama to revive it. In withdrawing
his support, he accused Obama of “a phony, political effort” that
would undermine any real chance of future progress on immigration.  This time around, it’s clear Graham, who speaks with a
nasally Southern drawl, is ready to re-engage.  Not ‘Backing Down’  “I don’t feel heat like I used to,” Graham said at a
March 26 news conference with local faith leaders who support
the immigration negotiations. “If you want to talk about
immigration, you’re welcome to come down and talk to me. If you
want to run ads, spend all the money you want to spend. I’m not
backing down.”  Opinions are shifting Graham's way in South Carolina. In focus
groups conducted this month, Resurgent Republic, a 
Republican-aligned firm, found that Republican primary voters in
Greenville were strongly opposed to illegal immigration, yet viewed
mass deportation as impractical. They were open to considering an
arduous pathway to citizenship for undocumented immigrants after
border security had been bolstered.  Among the conclusions from the group and another in  Des
Moines ,  Iowa , Republican strategists  Ed Gillespie  and  John
McLaughlin  wrote in a memo released today, are that Republican
base voters “are following this issue from a distance, so
Republicans seeking to pass broad-based immigration policies
need to make the case as to why this is necessary.” They also
advise Republicans to talk about the benefits of immigration,
and emphasize that legalization “does not absolve wrongdoing.”  Graham Critics  That’s unpersuasive to those plotting to oust Graham.  “Calling them legal I’ve got a problem with,” said State
Senator Lee Bright, who said he is “seriously considering”
challenging Graham in a primary race. “I don’t want folks who
have not come here legally to be able to vote or to be able to
collect any kind of welfare.”  Graham’s position on immigration isn’t Bright’s only
criticism. He said the senator underscored how out of touch he
is with South Carolinians when he criticized Kentucky Senator
 Rand Paul , a Republican, for a 13-hour filibuster criticizing
the Obama administration’s drone policy.  “He seems like he’s trying to find a lot of compromise
with Obama, and it seems like when you compromise with Obama,
you lose if you’re a conservative,” Bright said in an
interview.  Unseating Graham, he added, “would be uphill in the snow -
- I mean, there’s no question it would be a tough fight -- but I
do think it’s doable.”  Growing Strength  A survey conducted by Public Policy Polling, a Democratic-
leaning company, last year found that Graham had gained
substantial ground with Republican primary voters since his low
point in 2010. A January 2011 survey by the firm found just 37
percent of them backing Graham in a primary, while 52 percent
wanted an unnamed “more conservative” choice; by December
2012, 51 percent supported him compared to 40 percent who wanted
an alternative.  If he does draw an opponent, Graham’s political
organization in the state and his ample campaign account -- he
had raised $7.6 million and had $4.4 million in cash by the end
of last year -- will make him hard to beat, supporters said.  Re-Positioning  “He has done a very good job over the last 12 to 18 months
sort of re-positioning himself with the Republican primary
voters, and you can see that in his” approval ratings, said J.
Warren Tompkins, who has advised Graham as well as Republican
presidential candidates dating back to former President  Ronald Reagan ’s 1980 campaign. “The criticism of Rand Paul was a
misstep, and he stubbed his toe, but he stubbed his toe -- he
didn’t break it.”  Still, opponents of the immigration measure are working to
make an example of Graham.  NumbersUSA, an Arlington, Virginia, organization that
helped engineer a telephone, e-mail and fax onslaught of
congressional offices in opposition to the 2007 bill, last month
began airing television and radio spots against Graham, backed
by a six-figure ad buy.  In response, evangelical and business leaders have begun
their own ad campaigns defending him.  As he travels the state talking about the issue, Graham is
telling South Carolinians their state’s  economic  well-being --
driven by agriculture, tourism and manufacturing -- turns on the
future availability of immigrant workers. That element has
created a stalemate in negotiations on  Capitol Hill , with
organized labor pressing for stricter limits and higher wages on
a proposed visa program for low-skilled workers, while
businesses resist those requirements.  Local Economy  It’s the major factor weighing on Andy White, the
legislative director for the Homebuilders Association of South
Carolina, who’s waiting for Graham when he arrives at Mrs. B’s
to greet the lunchtime crowd enjoying catfish, collard greens
and banana pudding.  White wants a measure that legalizes undocumented  laborers 
and brings in more immigrants to work. Yet he’s worried the bill
taking shape in Washington will mean higher home building costs
by applying federal wage requirements that don’t currently bind
the state. “We’re concerned about ensuring that we’ll have a
supply of labor here to meet the burgeoning housing market,
because we are recovering here,” White said.  The terms of the low-skilled worker program are the one
element Graham said could cause him to walk away from an
emerging deal.  Democrats are “overplaying their hand” by siding with the
unions on the issue, Graham said. “I’m not going to go for a
guest-worker program that’s unaffordable and unaccessible,
because we’re going to have a third wave” of illegal
immigration.  “I don’t mind walking away from the bill if it’s a bad
bill -- I can do that,” Graham said, gazing out his car window
on his way to the next constituent visit. “I will do it in a
heartbeat.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Columbia, S.C. at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  