-- GS Yuasa Shares Tumble as Additional Batteries Overheat
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2013-03-28T10:54:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/gs-yuasa-shares-tumble-as-more-batteries-overheat-tokyo-mover.html
GS Yuasa Corp. (6674) , the Japanese maker
of the batteries that overheated and led to the grounding of all
 Boeing Co. (BA)  Dreamliner planes, tumbled in  Tokyo  after separate
lithium-ion incidents with Mitsubishi Motors Corp. cars.  The stock fell 11 percent, the most in five months, after
Mitsubishi Motors said yesterday that a lithium-ion car battery
caught fire and another melted -- both produced by a GS Yuasa
unit. Mitsubishi Motors declined 3.9 percent to its lowest close
in almost two months.  The incident occurs two months after a battery fire on a
 Japan Airlines Co. (9201)  flight and the emergency landing of an  All
Nippon Airways Co. (9202)  plane caused the grounding of all Boeing 787
Dreamliners globally from Jan. 16. A lithium-ion battery caught
fire while being tested at a  Mitsubishi Motors (7211)  factory in  Japan 
on March 18, while another melted in a separate incident last
week, Mitsubishi said yesterday.  “With lithium-ion incidents spreading from airlines to
automobiles investors are reacting excessively,” said Minoru
Matsuno, president of Value Search Asset Management Co., a
Tokyo-based investment advisory firm. “Still, with the lithium-
ion business being only a limited part of Yuasa’s sales I don’t
think it will have a very serious impact soon.”  Different Specifications  The batteries were made by Lithium Energy Japan, a venture
between GS Yuasa, Mitsubishi Motors and  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) , which
is separate from the factory where the Boeing 787 batteries were
made, said Tsutomu Nishijima, a spokesman for Yuasa. Yuasa owns
51 percent of Lithium Energy, Mitsubishi Corp. owns 44.6 percent
and Mitsubishi Motors holds 4.4 percent, according to Mitsubishi
Motors spokeswoman Tomoko Kawabe.  The lithium-ion batteries were also made to different
specifications from the Dreamliner battery, Yuasa’s Nishijima
said. Boeing also separately said the battery is “fundamentally
different from the 787 battery,” according to  Marc Birtel , a
spokesman for the plane maker.  U.S. and Japanese authorities are still investigating the
cause of the overheated batteries on Dreamliners, and Japan said
yesterday that it had found no concrete reason why the All
Nippon Airways’ 787 battery failed.  Test Flights  Boeing earlier this month announced safety upgrades to the
787’s battery systems, including to the lithium-ion unit and
charger, and said that may allow commercial flights to restart
within weeks. The Chicago-based company said the fixes cover all
possible scenarios for the cause and the actual reason may never
be determined.  The planemaker said earlier this week it plans a final 787
test flight in “coming days” after taking the grounded
Dreamliner aloft March 25 to evaluate fixes to the  lithium-ion
batteries .  GS Yuasa announced in 2009 that lithium-ion batteries for
vehicles will become a core business for the company. It has
four factories in Japan and makes lithium-ion batteries for
Honda Motor Co. as well as Mitsubishi Motors and Boeing’s 787.  Honda and Yuasa produce batteries at their own factory,
separate from Mitsubishi Motors, and have verified the safety of
the batteries and the entire battery system, Kumiko Hashimoto, a
spokeswoman for Honda said. The companies haven’t received any
reports of accidents with the batteries, she said.  Mitsubishi Motors yesterday asked customers not to charge
the plug-in hybrid Outlander vehicle externally until it
identifies the cause of the problem. The car manufacturer has
also suspended shipments of its Outlander PHEV vehicle until the
cause of the battery incidents has been determined, Yuki Murata,
a company spokesman, said.  “Mitsubishi was aiming to make the battery-powered
vehicles a core part of their business so this is very bad
news,” said  Satoru Takada , a Tokyo-based auto analyst at Toward
the Infinite World Inc. “Sales of the i-MiEV were not doing too
well so this incident simply adds on to electric vehicles not
selling.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  