-- Thiam’s $35.5 Billion Secret Deal Ignites U.K. Regulator’s Wrath
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2013-03-28T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/thiam-s-35-5-billion-secret-deal-ignites-u-k-regulator-s-wrath.html
On Feb. 12, 2010,  Prudential Plc (PRU) 
Chief Executive Officer Tidjane Thiam offered $35.5 billion for
 AIA Group Ltd. (1299)  in what would have been the firm’s biggest
acquisition funded by the U.K.’s largest share sale. The same
day he met the country’s regulator and didn’t mention the deal.  That meeting was the focus of a three-year row between the
U.K.’s biggest insurer and the Financial Services Authority that
came to a head yesterday when Thiam was punished for a
“serious” breach of conduct. The Ivory Coast-born French
national, who has almost doubled Prudential’s  share price  since
taking charge in 2009, contested the FSA’s findings, saying they
were unwarranted and posed a “grave threat” to his reputation
and career before settling.  Thiam, 50, and Prudential’s board decided to keep the
purchase secret from the FSA because they were concerned the
regulator would leak it to the media, the agency said in a
 report . FSA officials learned of the deal when they read about
it in the press. Prudential was subsequently fined 30 million
pounds ($45 million), the fifth-biggest in the agency’s history,
and the only one of the FSA’s 10 largest penalties where the
firm didn’t receive at least a 20 percent discount for
cooperating with the regulator.  “Thiam had numerous opportunities and was repeatedly
advised of the need to inform the FSA of the transaction, yet
played a significant role in PAC’s failure to do so,” the FSA’s
report said. PAC refers to a Prudential subsidiary. “Thiam and
PAC remained highly concerned about leak risk throughout the
transaction, and this sensitivity clearly affected their
judgment about when to inform the FSA.”  FSA Censure  Thiam is the only acting CEO of a  FTSE 100 (UKX)  company to
receive a public censure, a reprimand from the regulator that
stops short of fining or banning. The FSA can also issue private
censures that aren’t publicized.  “This is the first time such a large insurer has been
fined so much and for not being open and cooperative with their
regulator, and only for that reason,” said Chris Finney, a
partner at law firm  Edwards Wildman Palmer U.K. LLP , who worked
for the FSA for nine years until 2011.  Prudential agreed to the fine and Thiam to the censure, the
London-based insurer said yesterday in a statement. “Tidjane
acted at all times in the interests of the company and with the
full knowledge and authority of the board,” Chairman Paul Manduca said in the statement. “The FSA has determined that it
should have been informed earlier about the fact we were
contemplating the AIA transaction, and we regret, with
hindsight, not so doing.”  AIA Deal  Thiam joined Prudential in 2008 as finance director after a
career that took him from planning minister in the  Ivory Coast 
to  McKinsey & Co.  and then  Aviva Plc (AV/) , the U.K.’s second-biggest
insurer by market value. The 6-foot, 4-inch Thiam left the Ivory
Coast after the government in which he served was deposed in a
military coup in 1999.  He began work on the biggest takeover in Prudential’s 164-
year history in October 2009 when AIA’s parent,  American
International Group Inc. (AIG) , was seeking to repay the U.S.
government for its bailout in 2008. AIA and Prudential are the
two biggest international insurers in  Asia , selling life and
health policies in some of world’s largest and fastest growing
economies such as China, India and  Indonesia .  Thiam met with other Prudential’s directors on Jan. 31,
2010, and decided that a “key risk” of the deal, which would
require financing by a large share sale, was a leak at a time
when the stock market was still recovering from the financial
crisis, according to the FSA report. The regulator was “one of
a number of parties which might be the cause of a leak,” they
concluded, the report said.  Advice Rejected  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , which was advising Prudential on
the takeover, recommended the firm notify the FSA by Feb. 3. The
company rejected the advice because it said the takeover talks
were “premature” and that AIG preferred to sell AIA in an
initial public offering, the report said.  Over the next week, Thiam and then Chairman Harvey McGrath
met with AIG CEO  Robert Benmosche  in London and  Washington  as
they discussed the price of the deal and on Feb. 12 Prudential
sent a non-binding offer of $35.5 billion.  That same day Thiam met with the FSA’s insurance division
as part of the regulator’s usual supervisory check-ups.  “The FSA asked detailed questions about Prudential’s
strategy for growth in the Asian market and its intentions to
raise equity and debt capital,” the FSA said in its report.
Thiam didn’t say a word about the AIA deal, it said.  FSA Informed  Over the next 10 days, talks with AIG progressed and the
U.S. insurer informed Prudential that it preferred to sell AIA
to the U.K. firm rather than through an IPO. On Feb. 23,
Prudential further delayed its plan to tell the regulator, the
report said. Three days later, the company was informed that an
article was likely to be published in the press about the deal.
The FSA was still not informed, it said.  Prudential finally told the regulator of the transaction on
the afternoon of Feb. 27, hours after  Sky News  published a
report detailing the offer for AIA and its price. That left the
FSA with “numerous supervisory issues” to consider in a short
space of time before the insurer’s planned share sale to raise
the money for the purchase, it said.  At 14.5 billion pounds, the share sale would have been the
U.K.’s biggest on record, exceeding the 13.5 billion pounds
raised by  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  in 2009. The prospectus for
the share sale was due for publication on May 5, about two
months after the FSA was informed of the deal.  The tight schedule meant Prudential was unable to satisfy
the FSA “that the enlarged group would have a sufficiently
resilient financial position, including whether it would have a
robust regulatory capital position and whether regulatory
capital surpluses held in certain jurisdictions could be applied
to meet potential capital demands which might arise in other
areas of the group,” the FSA said.  AIA Offering  Prudential delayed the prospectus, and on May 27 investors
owning as much as 20 percent of Prudential’s stock were planning
to vote against the takeover, according to shareholder Neptune
Investment Management Ltd. The firm pulled the offer on June 3
after being unable to negotiate a lower price.  AIG began divesting its AIA stake in a public offering in
2010 and the firm now has a market value of $52.9 billion, 49
percent more than Thiam’s offer. Opponents of the deal including
Neptune point to the fact that Prudential’s stock has risen 90
percent since the deal collapsed, proving the firm didn’t need
the acquisition. After the deal failed, Thiam focused on
expanding the insurer’s Asian division and has lifted the
 dividend  53 percent since 2009.  ‘Serious Breach’  The FSA accused Thiam of a “serious breach” of its rules,
which require firms to be open and cooperative in their
relations with the regulator. The breach wasn’t “reckless or
deliberate,” and Thiam didn’t profit, the FSA said.  In written and oral  evidence  to the FSA, Thiam denied that
he had breached the FSA’s requirements, saying that the FSA had
“misunderstood and mis-stated the events.” The sanctions were
unwarranted and unprecedented, he said, according to the FSA.  He also said he wasn’t personally culpable for the conduct
ascribed to him because until Feb. 28 the transaction was
“highly unlikely” and “completely speculative.” The FSA knew
of Prudential’s general interest in AIA following a failed bid
earlier in 2009, and he acted with the full knowledge of his
board and advisers, Thiam said.  The FSA rejected Thiam’s explanation that he wasn’t
personally culpable as he “was the individual most closely
involved with the progress of the transaction,” it said.  “I know some of my clients think they leak like a sieve,”
said Stephen Gentle, a defense lawyer at  Kingsley Napley  in
 London , referring to the FSA. “They’re usually the opposite.
They are paranoid about confidentiality.”  The FSA fine brings the total cost of the failed bid to 407
million pounds. The firm has said it paid 377 million pounds in
fees to lawyers and advisers  A bonus for Thiam this year would be “highly
questionable” following a pay revolt on the insurer’s
compensation report last year and the FSA’s punishment, said
Louise Rouse, director of engagement at  ShareAction , a charity
promoting corporate governance and responsible investment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  