-- Liberty Global Buys $807 Million Ziggo Stake From Barclays
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-03-28T11:39:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/liberty-global-buys-12-7-stake-in-dutch-cable-tv-operator-ziggo.html
John Malone ’s  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA) 
purchased a 12.7 percent stake in Dutch cable-television
operator Ziggo NV from  Barclays Plc (BARC)  after the British bank
failed to find enough buyers last week in a share sale.  Liberty Global  paid about 632.5 million euros ($807
million), or 25 euros a share, to Barclays’s investment-banking
unit, the company said today. Ziggo shares rose almost 12
percent to 27.15 euros at 12:27 p.m. in Amsterdam.  Malone’s cable giant has been acquiring European cable
assets to expand in the continent’s pay-TV market. Last month,
the Englewood, Colorado-based company agreed to buy the U.K.’s
Virgin Media Inc. for $16 billion, the biggest media transaction
since 2007.  “There is certainly long-term logic to a merger of Liberty
Global and Ziggo,” Bernstein Research analyst  Robin Bienenstock 
wrote in a note today. A bid for Ziggo is unlikely in the near
term because Liberty Global is busy acquiring Virgin Media, she
wrote.  Barclays was left with a 697 million-euro stake after
managing a sale for owners Warburg Pincus LLC and Cinven Ltd.
The stake value was based on Ziggo’s March 19 closing price of
24.50 euros a share.  Liberty Global already operates in the Netherlands through
its UPC Broadband Holding BV unit, a Ziggo rival.  The Ziggo stake “is also financially attractive given the
stock’s approximate 7.4 percent dividend yield,” according to
today’s statement.  Bert Holtkamp, a Liberty Global spokesman, declined to
comment beyond the company’s statement.  ‘Shareholder Interest’  Ziggo, which raised 804 million euros in its initial public
offering a year ago, will “continue the existing strategy,”
said spokesman Martijn Jonker. The board said in a statement
today that it will “focus on executing  Ziggo NV (ZIGGO) ’s strategy in
the best interests of its shareholders.”  Ziggo, with 2.9 million TV customers at the end of last
year, offers TV, digital pay TV, high-speed broadband Internet
and telephone services. It also competes with phone companies
including Royal KPN NV and  Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD)   Liberty Global’s purchase of Virgin Media, which puts
Liberty Global in a dead heat with  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  as the world’s
biggest cable company, has helped increase the attractiveness of
Europe’s cable assets.  Kabel Deutschland  Vodafone in recent months has held internal talks about a
possible bid for Germany’s  Kabel Deutschland  Holding AG while
Grupo Corporativo ONO SA of Spain said earlier this month it’s
prepared to sell shares in an initial public offering when the
market for investors recovers.  Once the Virgin Media deal is completed, about 80 percent
of Liberty Global’s revenue will come from five countries -- the
U.K., Germany, Belgium, Switzerland and the Netherlands, Chief
Executive Officer Mike Fries said in February. Liberty Global
said it was also considering a European listing.  Barclays held about 28.4 million Ziggo shares as of March
19, representing a 14 percent stake, according to a previous
filing posted on the Dutch markets regulator AFM’s website said.
 Warburg Pincus , Cinven and some co-investors cut their stake in
Utrecht, Netherlands-based Ziggo by selling 40 million shares.  Barclays spokesman Jon Laycock declined to comment on
today’s deal with Liberty Global.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  