-- Cyprus Immunity Shows Libor Still Broken Rate: U.K. Credit
-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2013-03-28T11:31:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/libor-immunity-from-cyprus-shows-rate-still-broken-u-k-credit.html
Libor ignored the  crisis in Cyprus 
that’s roiling financial markets, showing the global benchmark
for $300 trillion of securities remains divorced from reality
six months after regulators laid out a  plan  to fix it.  Just four of the 18 banks contributing to the  London 
interbank offered rate in U.S. dollars increased submissions
last week to show a rise in their estimated borrowing cost, as
concern grew about bank runs and bailouts in  Europe .  UBS AG (UBSN)  and
BNP Paribas SA were among those reporting no change.  That week, the average cost to insure banks against default
soared 12 percent, credit-default swaps show. The amount lenders
paid to borrow cash from each other overnight, as measured by
the overnight-indexed swap rate, rose more than 8 percent.  “Instead of providing the most accurate quote of their
interbank borrowing costs, banks are playing safe and trying to
provide the least-risky quote given current investigations,”
said Rosa Abrantes-Metz, an economist with New York-based
consulting firm Global Economics Group Inc.  Libor is calculated daily through a survey in London that
asks banks how much it costs them to borrow cash from each other
for various durations in different currencies. Banks including
UBS and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  were given record fines
over the past year for making false submissions to that survey.  With little interbank trading as banks tap other funding
sources, lenders are forced to guess what their borrowing costs
might be, leaving the rate open to inaccuracy and abuse.  CDS Jump  Three-month dollar Libor rose 0.5 basis points, or 0.005
percentage point, to 0.285 percent between March 15 and March 22
as European policy makers clashed over a rescue for Cyprus and
the island’s lawmakers resisted a plan to impose a tax on  bank
deposits . That increase shows banks estimate it costs less than
2 percent more to borrow than a week earlier.  During the same period, the average cost of a five-year
contract to insure the senior debt of banks on the dollar Libor
panel against default jumped by 11.9 percent as credit-default
swap writers demanded a higher premium. Concern that a Cyprus
deposit tax may prompt savers to pull funds from weaker banks
elsewhere in the euro region helped send European stocks
sliding.  Since March 22 the divergence between Libor and CDS has
continued to grow. By March 27, three-month dollar Libor had
dropped back 0.1 basis point to 0.284 percent, while the average
cost of a CDS contract on the banks had risen a further 15.3
percent. It’s now 28 percent more expensive to insure the banks
against default than it was on March 15, compared to the 1.4
percent increase to the Libor rate.  New Regulator  Britain is adopting a plan that aims to improve the way the
London interbank offered rate is set. The Libor scandal erupted
after London-based  Barclays Plc (BARC)  was found to have made
artificially low submissions during the financial crisis to
avoid the perception that it was under stress.  “Libor may not be being manipulated currently, but it is
not responding to market conditions the way it would be
expected,” said Abrantes-Metz, who is also an associate
professor at  New York  University’s Stern School of Business.
“That compromises the reliability of Libor as a key benchmark,
to the detriment of the market.”  The U.K. Financial Services Authority approved  reforms  this
week that will see the  Prudential Regulatory Authority , the  new 
financial regulator, given responsibility for overseeing the
rate-setting process, including corroborating submissions and
monitoring suspicious conduct.  Heightened Scrutiny  Libor rate-setters, who usually work in a bank’s treasury
department, are no longer allowed to consider the views of
derivatives traders who stand to benefit from where the rate is
fixed each day. Traders found guilty of attempting to rig the
rate can be jailed.  Martin Wheatley, head of the PRA, said on March 25 that the
new rules would “restore faith” and “bring integrity back to
Libor.”  Chris Hamilton , a spokesman for the U.K. regulator,
declined to comment.  The U.K. reforms “are designed to make sure Libor keeps
functioning because it is the benchmark for so many contracts,”
Abrantes-Metz said. “That is necessary, but users should start
looking to alternatives.”  ‘Fragile System’  Australia  this week scrapped the panel that sets its
benchmark  interbank rate , becoming the first major developed
economy to replace its rate-setting regime following the rigging
scandal. The nation’s bank-bill swap rate will be compiled
directly using prices from brokers and electronic markets
instead of asking a panel of banks, according to the Australian
Financial Markets Association.  Though the heightened regulatory scrutiny makes it harder
for traders to manipulate Libor for their own gain,  Gary Gensler , chairman of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, has said the rate remains flawed given Libor still
relies on estimates of a market with very few transactions.  “Propping up a fragile system in the interest of
maintaining a sense of stability only creates more instability
in the end,” Gensler said in a Feb. 28 speech in New York. ‘One
can buy an artificial sense of calm for a while, but when that
calm cracks, the resulting turmoil is invariably greater.”  Before the financial crisis, Libor and credit-default swaps
tended to move in tandem. As perceptions of bank risk grew, CDS
contracts became more expensive and lenders in money markets
demanded higher  interest rates  for short-term financing. That
relationship has broken down as Libor has become less responsive
to market events, Abrantes-Metz said.  Persistent Divergence  Last week, the divergence between CDS and Libor was
particularly pronounced among the European lenders on the Libor
panel. Of the 11 European banks that provide rates, eight left
their submissions unchanged.  They included French bank  BNP Paribas (BNP) , whose CDS jumped 18
percent over the period; Swiss lender UBS, whose CDS rose 15.9
percent; and Edinburgh-based RBS, whose CDS rose 9.6 percent.
Spokesmen for the three banks declined to comment.  The U.S. dollar overnight-indexed swap rate, which gives an
indicator of how much banks are paying to borrow cash from each
other overnight and is based on actual trading, jumped to 0.1475
percent from 0.1362 over the same period, an 8 percent increase.  That meant the spread between Libor and the overnight-
indexed swap rate, a closely-followed barometer of stress in the
market, fell to its lowest level in 19 months on March 22, the
last day of a week where Cyprus’s crisis pushed Treasuries and
gold higher on demand for the safest assets.  “This kind of divergence is going to keep happening,” said
Andrew Verstein, a lecturer at  Yale Law School  in  New Haven ,
 Connecticut , and co-author of a paper on Libor rigging published
in the Winter 2013 issue of the Yale Journal on Regulation.
“You may see peculiar results, but as long as there is good
governance and every effort to stop abuse, the market may decide
that it wants to keep using Libor.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at   magilbert@bloomberg.net  