-- Michigan Emergency Manager Law Challenged in Suit
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2013-03-28T19:06:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/michigan-emergency-manager-law-challenged-in-suit.html
Michigan ’s new emergency-manager
law is unconstitutional because it allows unelected officials to
rule by decree over municipal governments and school boards,
according to a lawsuit seeking to overturn the statute.  Union officials and school board and council members in
cities including Benton Harbor and Flint claim the law violates
citizens’ due process rights under the U.S. Constitution. The
law, passed in December after voters rejected an earlier
emergency-manager measure in November 2012, takes effect today.  The complaint, filed yesterday in federal court in Detroit,
names Governor Rick Snyder and Treasurer Andy Dillon as
defendants and seeks to overturn the statute. The plaintiffs
asked the court to immediately bar emergency managers from
exercising authority and to void any consent agreements
established under the statute.  The suing officials claim elected authorities will be
displaced by a “new form of government in Michigan” wherever
an emergency manager is appointed and citizens “will have
effectively lost their right to vote” or have the impact of
their votes diluted.  The global recession, accompanied by “record foreclosures
and steep unemployment” in Michigan, caused “sharp reductions
to income and property tax revenue” in the state, according to
the complaint.  State laws reduced revenue sharing with local governments,
leaving  Detroit  with a deficit of about $327 million and more
than $14 billion in long-term obligations.  Six Cities  Emergency managers also have been named for six cities and
three school districts in Michigan under a previous law,
including for the largest city, Detroit. Most of the affected
jurisdictions have high African-American populations, which
violates the U.S. Voting Rights Act, according to the complaint.  “We’re fully confident in both the spirit and
constitutionality of the state’s most recent emergency manager
law, Public Act 436, and will work vigorously to uphold it,”
Sara Wurfel, a spokeswoman for Snyder, said in an e-mail.  “This law recognized and respected the will of voters
while ensuring local officials have a strong voice in how a
financial crisis in their community or school is remedied,” she
said.  Anthony Neely, spokesman for Detroit Mayor Dave Bing,
didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment on the
lawsuit.  Detroit Manager  Kevyn Orr, a bankruptcy lawyer who left a job in  Washington 
with the Jones Day law firm, was appointed this month as
Detroit’s emergency manager under a weaker 1990 emergency
manager law. The new law gives current emergency managers more
power to reorganize local governments, sell assets and change
union contracts.  Orr has said he wants to work cooperatively with Bing and
the Detroit City Council. This week, he said he won’t cut their
pay, which the new law allows him to do. Orr was on the legal
team that helped Chrysler Group LLC reorganize in 2009.  The case is Phillips v. Snyder, 13-cv-11370, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Christoff in Lansing, Michigan,
at   cchristoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 