-- Milk Rout Ending on Worst N.Z. Drought in 30 Years: Commodities
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-03-28T17:21:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/milk-rout-ending-on-worst-n-z-drought-in-30-years-commodities.html
Milk futures are poised to end
their longest slump since 2008 in Chicago as drought reduces
production in  New Zealand , the largest exporter, forcing China
and other buyers to import more from the U.S.  Overseas shipments may rise 5 percent this year from an
all-time high in 2012, the Arlington, Virginia-based U.S. Dairy
Export Council predicts. Futures on the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange will jump as much as 18 percent to $20.50 per 100
pounds by year-end, the highest since December, according to the
median of 10 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  As global demand for imports expands, output is dropping
among all the top exporters except  Brazil  and the U.S., Rabobank
estimates. The worst drought in three decades already drove
milk-powder prices to a record in New Zealand, where production
may be 20 percent lower than a year earlier for another six
months, the bank says. Dairy costs tracked by the  United Nations 
reached a 13-month high in February, even as its index of 55
 foods  retreated to an eight-month low.  “If New Zealand doesn’t have product, and they’re the
largest exporter to  Asia , they’re going to have to buy it from
us,” said  Shawn Hackett , the president of Boynton Beach,
Florida-based Hackett Financial Advisers Inc., predicting prices
as high as $25 by the end of the year. “It’s setting up for a
very, very tight exportable supply situation.”  North Island  Class III milk, used to make cheese, rose 1.8 percent to
$17.29 since Feb. 28, after dropping four straight months. The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Agriculture Index of eight commodities
slid 2.2 percent this month, as the  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD) 
of equities gained 1.4 percent. Treasuries returned 0.2 percent,
a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  New Zealand declared a drought across all of North Island,
which accounts for 61 percent of the nation’s output, on March
15. The dryness may cost the economy NZ$2 billion ($1.7
billion), the government estimates.  Whole-milk powder at the GlobalDairyTrade auction in New
Zealand rose to a record $5,313 a metric ton on March 19,
according to Auckland-based  Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. (FCG) , the
world’s largest dairy exporter. The price is used as a global
benchmark. Milk  collection  will finish “in line” with last
season, Fonterra said March 27, lowering its previous forecast
for a 1 percent gain.  China will import 12 percent more whole-milk powder and 18
percent more skimmed-milk powder this year, the U.S. Department
of Agriculture estimates. While New Zealand was expected to be
the main beneficiary of that growth, the U.S. has a “strong
foothold” in Asia, the USDA said in a December  report . The last
time a drought threatened to cut supplies from New Zealand and
 Australia  in 2007, Chicago futures reached a record $22.45.  Next Season  The impact on New Zealand’s  output  this year may be less
than forecast because the dry spell came late in the season,
said Dermot Carey, a senior vice president at the ingredients
division of Darigold Inc., a Seattle-based farmer-owned dairy
processor. To have a bigger impact, the drought would need to
last into the next season, he said. That would mean extending
through June.  Slowing economic growth also may limit demand for milk. The
 International Monetary Fund  said Feb. 28 that government
spending cuts will curb expansion in the U.S., where data from
Dairy Management Inc. and Symphony IRI Group show retail sales
of milk fell almost 3 percent in the latest 52-week period.
Dairy Management Chief Executive Officer  Tom Gallagher  said
sales to some retailers are down 8 percent to 10 percent.  Rising exports and prices are an incentive for U.S. farmers
to boost production, said Chip Whalen, a vice president at
Chicago-based Commodity & Ingredient Hedging LLC, which advises
clients including dairy producers on managing margins.  Younger Herds  Domestic output will rise 0.8 percent to 201.9 billion
pounds this year, with each cow producing 21,960 pounds, or 1.2
percent more, the USDA estimates. Technology and breeding have
boosted the number of female calves, and farmers maintain young
herds by slaughtering older cows when their output drops.  The U.S. dairy industry sold more than 13 percent of its
milk-solid production last year to overseas buyers, from 3.7
percent in 1996, according to the export council. U.S. dairy
exports reached a record $5.21 billion in 2012.  “Without that export market we’d be swimming in milk,”
said Ed Schoen, 67, who keeps 180 cows on his farm near Phelps,
 New York . “We’ve got about 13, 14 pounds out of every 100
pounds of our milk going overseas. That’s one out of every seven
tractor trailers that we see going to down the road. Without
that, our market would be pretty soft for milk.”  Export Council  Mexico ,  China ,  Canada ,  Japan  and  South Korea  increased
purchases from the U.S. last year. The value of U.S. shipments
to China, the biggest buyer of  whole-milk powder , may more than
double by 2017, according to the export council.  Last year’s U.S. drought, the worst since the 1930s,
spurred a reduction in the number of milk cows as feed costs
surged. The herd will shrink 0.4 percent this year to 9.195
million head, according to the USDA. While corn prices are 13
percent below the all-time high of $8.49 a bushel in August,
some dairies are still losing money, according to Rabobank.  U.S. consumers may pay as much as 4.5 percent more for
dairy products this year, compared with an average of as much as
4 percent across all food groups, according to the USDA.  Darden Restaurants Inc. (DRI) , the operator of the Red Lobster,
 Olive Garden  and LongHorn Steakhouse chains, expects dairy costs
to be higher in its fiscal year that starts May 27. Prices are
rising because of insufficient U.S. milk production and export
demand, Jim Lawrence, the chief supply-chain officer for the
 Orlando , Florida-based company, said during an analyst and
investor meeting Feb. 26.  U.S. Plants  Dairy prices aren’t coming down significantly any time
soon, Paul Smucker Wagstaff, the president of U.S. retail
consumer foods at Orville, Ohio-based J.M. Smucker Co., said
during an earnings conference call Feb. 15.  Darigold , the Seattle milk processor, expects exports to
rise 5 percent this year, driven by demand from Asia, according
to Carey. The company produces more than 8.5 billion pounds of
raw milk a year at its 10 U.S. plants, he said. The company’s
exports last year represented 23 percent of all U.S. American-
style cheese exports and 24 percent of U.S. milk-powder
shipments, the senior vice president said.  Chinese imports of whole-milk powder will reach 410,000
tons this year, compared with 11,000 tons two decades ago, the
USDA estimates. Global purchases will be 837,000 tons in 2013,
from 569,000 tons in 1993.  “You’re seeing demand growth exceed supplies available
year over year,” said Derik Robinson, the chief financial
officer of  High Desert Milk  in Burley,  Idaho , which exports
about 30 million pounds of milk powder a year. “Milk is
becoming an important source of protein in the diets of a lot of
different countries.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  