-- IMF Defends Cyprus Deal as Country Faces ‘Difficult’ Period
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-03-28T14:31:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/imf-defends-cyprus-deal-as-country-faces-difficult-period.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
defended the agreement reached this week to bail out Cyprus,
saying it had the support of all parties involved and will help
the country develop a healthier economy over the long term.  “The adjustment that the plan will entail as the financial
sector downsizes and the economy adjusts accordingly will be a
difficult process for the Cypriot people over some period of
time -- we are mindful of that,” Gerry Rice, the IMF’s director
of external affairs, told reporters today in  Washington . “But
it will ultimately result in an economic model that is more
sustainable and growth promoting.”  IMF staff are in Cyprus trying to complete technical
details on a financial assistance package, work that Rice said
is expected to conclude in early April. He said a final decision
on the IMF’s contribution to the program isn’t expected before
the end of April.  “It’s important for us to step back and remember the
exceptional situation that Cyprus was facing with an oversized
banking sector, two major banks deeply insolvent and high and
rising public debt,” Rice said. “Cyprus was already facing a
crisis situation.”  Cyprus Banks  Cyprus’s banks opened for the first time in almost two
weeks, with new rules curbing access to cash preventing an
initial panic to withdraw deposits. President Nicos Anastasiades
thanked Cypriots for maintaining calm as banks opened, with many
savers heeding the government’s call for citizens not to rush to
banks or seeking to avoid potential chaos.  Lenders on the Mediterranean island had been closed since
March 16, when the European Union presented a proposal to force
losses on all depositors in exchange for a 10 billion-euro
bailout. That plan touched off protests and political upheaval,
and was rejected by the country’s parliament. A subsequent
agreement reached March 25 shut Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl, the
second-largest lender, and imposed larger losses on uninsured
depositors.  “The agreement reached in Brussels I think deals with
these challenges up front and focuses on dealing with the two
problem banks, and fully protecting insured deposits in all
banks through a clear strategy that ensures the debt
sustainability and does not excessively the Cypriot taxpayer,”
Rice said.  Asked whether the rescue for Cyprus could be a model for
other countries facing a financial crisis, Rice said, “the case
of Cyprus was very complex and unique in nature and it would be
difficult to extend the case to  Europe  or the rest of the
world.”  Rice said the issue showed the need for Europe to move
toward a unified banking system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  