-- IMF Board Supports Lagarde After Home Searched in Tapie Case
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-03-28T17:30:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/imf-board-supports-lagarde-after-home-searched-in-tapie-case.html
International Monetary Fund
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde , whose Paris apartment was
searched by police March 20 in a case involving businessman
 Bernard Tapie , retains the backing of the board of directors, an
IMF spokesman said.  “The executive board has been briefed on this matter,
including recently, and continues to express its confidence in
the managing director’s ability to effectively carry out her
duties,” IMF spokesman Gerry Rice told reporters in  Washington 
today.  The inquiry focuses on arbitration that awarded almost $500
million to Tapie, a supporter of former President  Nicolas Sarkozy . The Cour de Justice de la Republique, which
investigates ministers’ actions in office, is looking into
whether Lagarde, a onetime finance minister under Sarkozy, erred
in agreeing to arbitration to end the dispute involving Tapie.  Lagarde “considers that this will enable to establish the
truth and will ultimately lead to the termination of all
investigations,” Yves Repiquet, her lawyer, said in a statement
on the day of the raid.  Tapie, who has also dabbled in politics and acting, in 2008
won the 385 million euro ($494 million) arbitration award to
settle a dispute over his company’s sale of German sportswear
brand  Adidas AG. (ADS)  He contended that the bank Credit Lyonnais
mishandled the 1993 sale.  When Lagarde took over the IMF, the institution was reeling
from the arrest of former chief  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  on
charges including attempted rape of a hotel maid in New York.
The charges were later dropped and he settled the maid’s lawsuit
last year.  The longest-serving finance minister of France since the
1970s, Lagarde has stood by her decision in the Tapie case,
saying in an interview broadcast by France 2 television on Jan.
25 that “it was the best solution at the time and I think it
was the right choice.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 