-- Impregilo Bid Reflects Joint Company’s Value, Salini Chief Says
-- B y   R o s s   L a r s e n
-- 2013-03-28T13:57:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/impregilo-bid-reflects-joint-company-s-value-salini-chief-says.html
Salini SpA’s 4 euro-a-share offer
for  Impregilo SpA (IPG)  reflects the highest price the Italian
construction group will command for a long time, Pietro Salini,
chief executive officer of both companies, said in an interview.  Impregilo may be taken off the market and re-listed,
possibly in  London , if Salini succeeds with a bid that values
the Milan-based company at 1.6 billion euros ($2.05 billion),
the CEO said. Investors including the Gavio family, with a 30
percent stake, have until April 12 to accept or reject the
offer.  “If Gavio offers me 4 euros a share, I will sell,” Salini
said. “No one will lose one cent from where we came into the
company until this offer.”  Salini, whose company holds about 30 percent of Impregilo,
made the offer on March 18. Salini won control of the board in
July and ousted directors backed by IGLI, an  investment company 
controlled by Gavio.  The offer price accounts for an extraordinary dividend from
last year’s sale of Impregilo’s stake in Brazilian motorway
operator Ecorodovias. The share value will decline after the
payout and a possible relisting would be at a lower price. A
failed takeover would also diminish the value of the stock,
Salini said.  Impregilo was unchanged at 4 euros in Milan trading. The
stock was priced at 3.99 euros on March 18, the day before the
offer was made public. Salini said he doesn’t intend to raise
the price and “there is no plan B” if the bid fails, he said.  The company may be taken private temporarily if Salini
gains control of as much as 90 percent of the shares. It may
also be delisted if Gavio refuses to tender its shares as part
of an effort to get the investor to exit.  Halfway There  Impregilo and Salini are already working like a combined
company in most ways, leading to a “booming” order book and
the company to bid for larger projects, the CEO said. A joint
company would be the biggest in  Europe  for large civil
engineering projects, he said. Impregilo builds tunnels and
roads and is working on the expansion of the Panama Canal and
the Copenhagen subway.  The CEO said it’s a challenge to first convince
shareholders to back his strategic plan by supporting the board
takeover and then persuade them to sell the shares.  A counteroffer from Gavio is “improbable but not
impossible,” Salini said. “It still makes sense for them to
exit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ross Larsen in London at 
 rlarsen2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  