-- India’s Current-Account Deficit Widened to Record Last Quarter
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2013-03-28T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/india-s-current-account-deficit-widened-to-record-last-quarter.html
India ’s current-account deficit
widened to a record last quarter as oil and gold imports surged,
adding pressure on the government to extend a policy overhaul
and attract foreign investment as the rupee weakens.  The deficit in the current  account , the broadest measure of
trade, was $32.6 billion in the three months ended Dec. 31, or
6.7 percent of gross domestic product, compared with a revised
$22.6 billion gap from July through September, the  Reserve Bank
of India  said in a statement yesterday. The median estimate of
12 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a deficit of
$30.7 billion.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government has said it will
liberalize rules for foreigners buying rupee bonds from April 1
as it pursues policy changes to revive a faltering economy,
including opening up aviation and retail industries to attract
more overseas investment. India may need more than $75 billion
of foreign capital this year and next to fund the deficit,
Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said in an interview
this month.  “The current account will depend on inflows and the
government is accelerating measures to boost them, but they need
to address the structural issues,” said Shubhada Rao, Mumbai-
based chief economist at  Yes Bank Ltd. (YES)  “There will be some
improvement in the last quarter because the trade deficit will
be narrowing and exports have accelerated a bit.”  Export Rebound  The rupee, which has lost 6.6 percent in the past year
against the dollar, strengthened 0.2 percent yesterday to 54.28,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, as the S&P BSE Sensex
rose 0.7 percent. The benchmark 10-year bond yield slid 4 basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 7.95 percent.  India’s  exports  rebounded 4.2 percent in February after
dropping in nine of the past 12 months as  Europe ’s debt crisis
curbed overseas sales. The government plans to provide
incentives to exporters in its annual trade policy due early
next month as part of its push to bridge the  trade gap .  Policy makers are reviewing foreign direct investment caps
in almost two dozen sectors and plan to scrap or liberalize some
of them, the finance minister said. A revamp since September has
included curbing of fuel subsidies and speeding up stalled road,
rail and port projects.  The current-account and fiscal deficits have been cited by
the  Reserve Bank  of India as among the reasons preventing a
decline in borrowing costs. Governor Duvvuri Subbarao lowered
the benchmark repurchase rate by quarter-percentage to 7.5
percent on March 19, signaling “limited headroom” for further
reductions.  The $1.8 trillion  economy  will probably expand 5 percent in
the financial year ending March 31, according to government
estimates, the slowest pace in a decade.  The government plans to cut the budget  deficit  to 4.8
percent of GDP next year, from an estimated 5.2 percent this
year, seeking to avert a downgrade in credit ratings after
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings lowered the sovereign
outlook to negative, a step closer to junk status.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;
Tushar Dhara in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  