-- India’s Nifty Stock Futures Decline Before Expiry, Deficit Data
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-03-28T02:19:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/india-s-nifty-stock-futures-decline-before-expiry-deficit-data.html
Indian stock-index futures dropped
before derivatives contracts expire and the central bank
releases the nation’s current-account balance for the three
months ended Dec. 31 today.  SGX CNX Nifty Index futures  for March delivery fell 0.2
percent to 5,630 at 9:58 a.m. in Singapore. The contract expires
today. The most-active April contract lost 0.2 percent to 5,662.
The underlying CNX  Nifty (NIFTY)  Index added 0.1 percent to 5,641.60 on
March 26, ending a seven-day decline. The S&P BSE Sensex index
advanced 0.1 percent. Indian markets were closed yesterday for a
public holiday. The Bank of  New York  Mellon India ADR Index of
U.S.-traded shares increased 0.2 percent yesterday.  The shortfall in the current account, the broadest measure
of trade, widened to $31 billion, from a record $22.3 billion
three months earlier, according to a Bloomberg survey of 10
economists. Finance Minister P. Chidambaram has said the
current-account deficit is a bigger concern than the budget gap
and estimates India may need more than $75 billion of foreign
capital this year and next to fund it.  “We expect a volatile trading session today on account of
the expiry of the futures contract,” Kishor Ostwal, managing
director of CNI Research (India) Ltd., said by phone yesterday.
“The current-account deficit numbers will be keenly watched.”  Valuations Drop  Valuations on the  Sensex (SENSEX)  dropped to 12.6 times projected
12-month earnings on March 26, the cheapest level since July.
Its 30-day  volatility  gauge, a measure of price swings, is at
the highest level since October.  The measure has dropped 3.7 percent this year, heading for
the first quarterly loss since the three months ended December
2011, amid the weakest economic growth in a decade, widening
deficits and the highest inflation among major  emerging markets .  Overseas funds bought a net $148.4 million of Indian shares
on March 25, taking net purchases this year to $10 billion, a
record for the period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Net inflows last year totaled $24.5 billion, the most among 10
Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg.  “Inflows can only take you up to a particular level,”
Krishna Kumar Karwa, managing director of Emkay Global Financial
Services Ltd., told Bloomberg TV India on March 26. “After
that, your earnings will finally get reflected and if earnings
are not in tandem, then obviously you will see stock prices
correcting and that is what has happened in most stocks.”  Earnings at 43 percent of the index companies  missed
estimates  in the three months through Dec. 31, compared with 40
percent in the previous two quarters, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  