-- India Panel Recommends Rates Committee, Combining Regulators
-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2013-03-28T12:25:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/india-panel-recommends-rates-committee-combining-regulators.html
An Indian panel recommended an
independent debt management office for the government and a
monetary policy committee to set  interest rates  as part of
reframing rules and streamlining policy making.  A report  released  by the Financial Sector Legislative
Reforms Commission today also suggested a separate regulator for
banks and financial institutions, and a single entity for the
insurance and pensions industry and the markets instead of the
three separate ones now.  “The existing  Securities and Exchange Board of India ,
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority and Pension Funds
Regulatory and Development Authority will be merged into a new
unified agency,” the report said. The recommendations aren’t
binding on the government.  India constituted a panel in 2011 to suggest changes to the
legal structure that underpins the Indian financial sector.
Multiple laws, some dating back to the colonial period, have
failed to keep pace with innovations and have led to disputes
between regulators over jurisdiction.  The panel, headed by Justice Srikrishna, recommended the
creation of a seven-member monetary policy committee to
determine the benchmark interest rate, including periodical
meetings. The  Reserve Bank  of India governor sets borrowing
costs under the present system after advice from a technical
advisory committee.  India’s insurance regulator in 2010 sought legal advice on
whether the Securities and Exchange Board of India had
jurisdiction over insurers offering products linked to stocks.
The law governing the functioning of the  Reserve Bank of India 
was formulated in 1934 while the Insurance Act was implemented
in 1938.  A separate debt management office may also free up the RBI
from managing the government’s bond sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tushar Dhara in  New Delhi  at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  