-- InterContinental Sells Park Lane Hotel for $457 Million
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-03-28T09:58:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/intercontinental-sells-london-s-park-lane-hotel-for-457-million.html
InterContinental Hotels Group Plc (IHG) 
agreed to sell its  London   Park Lane  Hotel to Middle Eastern
investors for 301.5 million pounds ($457 million) as it sharpens
its focus on managing properties and brands.  InterContinental, the world’s largest hotel-room provider,
will run the 447-bedroom hotel under a 30-year contract and can
extend that another 30 years, the Denham, England-based company
said in a statement today. The hotel was bought by an affiliate
of closely held Constellation Hotels Holding Ltd. for 62 percent
more than book value at the end of December, the statement said.  The deal “highlights the value of our asset portfolio and
the attractiveness of InterContinental as one of the world’s
leading luxury hotel brands,” Chief Executive Officer Richard Solomons said in the statement. “It is another step in our long
standing commitment to reduce the capital intensity of IHG.”  London’s luxury-hotel market has been defying  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis and Britain’s struggle for economic growth
as overseas visitors drive record sales and occupancy rates,
boosting values. The hotel generated $89 million in revenue last
year and InterContinental said it expects fees of about 4
million pounds a year from the management agreement.  The London Park Lane, which overlooks Hyde Park and is
about a 10-minute walk from  Buckingham Palace , opened in 1975.
It was once the site of a royal residence and includes a full-
service spa, according to the hotel’s web site.  Selling Properties  InterContinental, owner of the Holiday Inn and Crowne Plaza
brands, said it will have sold 191 hotels for $6.1 billion since
becoming an independent company in 2003. The Park Lane deal will
give the company an exceptional pretax gain of about $150
million and it will have to pay a onetime tax of about $30
million, according to the statement. InterContinental is also
seeking to sell its  New York  Barclay hotel in the U.S.  About $93 million of the sale proceeds will be used to
secure U.K. pension liabilities which were previously backed by
the hotel, InterContinental said.  Constellation, based in Luxembourg, bought four French
hotels, including the Martinez in Cannes and Paris’s Concorde La
Fayette, from a Starwood Capital Group affiliate earlier this
year for an undisclosed price, according to a statement at the
time.  Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H)  will manage those properties, the
Chicago-based lodging company said in a separate statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 