-- Irish Banks Aid Funding With Own-Use Bonds Amid Cyprus Woes
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-03-28T13:20:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/irish-banks-aid-funding-with-own-use-bonds-amid-cyprus-woes-1-.html
Irish lenders issued 8 billion
euros ($10.2 billion) of bonds this week before the expiry of a
government guarantee that allows them to be used as collateral
with the European Central Bank.  Bank of Ireland Plc , the nation’s largest lender by assets,
and  Permanent TSB Group Holdings Plc (IPM)  printed 5 billion euros and
3 billion euros of the notes respectively this week, according
to the National Treasury Management Agency  website , before the
government stops guaranteeing new liabilities today. The lenders
will keep ownership of the notes, which they can exchange for
ECB funding if needed.  “This is a very prudent move by the banks just before the
guarantee expiry, giving them a collateral buffer, particularly
after the uncertainty caused by the Cypriot bailout,” said Owen Callan, an analyst at Danske Bank A/S in Dublin. “Cyprus has
shown how things can flare up.”  Irish banks began issuing so-called own-use, or self-held,
bonds in January 2011 to create collateral as they were locked
out of public debt markets. Reliance on these notes, which must
be backed by a government guarantee for them to be eligible with
the ECB, has dropped to 3 billion euros in February from a peak
of almost 18 billion euros before the state completed a 64
billion-euro bailout of its banks in July 2011, NTMA data show.  Unlike previous own-use bonds, which have matured after
three months, the latest notes issued by Bank of Ireland and
Permanent TSB won’t mature until March 2015, when the ECB is
slated to stop accepting this type of collateral.  Shrinking Lending  The nation’s banks have relied heavily on ECB and Irish
central bank emergency funding since they came close to collapse
in September 2008 following the bursting of the country’s real
estate bubble. Still, their dependency has fallen by more than a
third since the middle of 2011, as lenders shrank the size of
their loan books, won back some deposits and re-entered bond
markets last year for the first time since 2010.  Deposits at Bank of Ireland, Permanent TSB and  Allied Irish
Banks Plc (ALBK) , the three government-rescued banks, have increased 11
percent to 155 billion euros from the 2011 recapitalization to
the end of February, the most recent available figure. Their use
of ECB funding plunged 37 percent over the same period,
according to data published by the Finance Ministry on March 14.  Bank of Ireland will keep ownership of the bonds “for
contingent liquidity purposes,” Anne Mathews, a company
spokeswoman based in Dublin, said by phone today. A spokesman
for Permanent TSB wasn’t immediately able to comment.  Permanent TSB Chief Executive Officer Jeremy Masding and
Allied Irish CEO David Duffy each said this week that their
deposit bases remained stable even as Cyprus started to inflict
losses on customer savings.  Allied Irish doesn’t need to issue government-guaranteed
“contingent liquidity support and incur the associated costs,”
Niamh Hennessy, a bank spokeswoman, said by e-mail today.
“AIB’s liquidity position is healthy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  