-- Jefferies Group CEO Sues to Stop Tribeca Roof Deck
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h ,   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2013-03-28T21:07:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/jefferies-group-ceo-sues-to-stop-tribeca-roof-deck.html
Jefferies Group LLC (JEF)  Chief Executive
Officer Richard Handler sued to stop construction of a roof deck
across the street from his Tribeca penthouse apartment, saying
it’s illegal and would spoil his view.  Handler, who indirectly owns the penthouse apartment at One
York Street, filed a petition in  New York  State Supreme Court in
 Manhattan  on March 25 against the city’s building commissioner,
Robert LiMandri, and the owner of 50 Varick Street, to stop a
construction project there and have its permits revoked.  An elevator vestibule for a proposed roof deck and bar area
would block views from the penthouse, whose owners face
“significant noise and light impingements from the project and
future roof deck use as a late night rooftop bar,” according to
the petition.  “The project will significantly obstruct the panoramic
river views from petitioner’s apartment,” according to the
petition. “In addition, use of the building roof deck as an
outdoor event space and its concomitant noise will impair the
use and value of petitioner’s apartment.”  Handler became CEO of  Leucadia National Corp. (LUK)  this month
when the investment firm finished acquiring New York-based
Jefferies. He still also runs the investment bank.  Jefferies paid Handler $19 million for fiscal 2012 and
approved $39 million in restricted stock awards for the next
three years.  Pay Package  The pay package for the year ended Nov. 30 was a
36 percent increase from the year-earlier period and included a
$5 million cash bonus, $13 million in stock and a $1 million
salary, the company said in January.  The penthouse at One York Street is a 6,096-square foot
duplex with three bedrooms and five bathrooms, according to the
property-listing website  StreetEasy.com .  The apartment includes almost 2,000 square feet of outdoor
space with a speaker system, a wet bar and a media room with a
100-inch motorized projection screen. The newly constructed unit
was listed for sale by its sponsor in June 2009 for $34 million.
Handler, using an entity named Raesky LLC, bought it in May 2010
for $23.7 million, according to property records. Raesky LLC is
the owner of the One York Street penthouse, according to the
petition.  The buyers took out a $15 million mortgage on the property,
with Martha Handler listed as the borrower in records filed with
the city. The borrower’s primary address is the same South
Salem, New York, address from which  Richard Handler , in his
capacity as Jefferies CEO, makes federal campaign donations.  Monthly Charges  Monthly common charges on the apartment are about
$6,139, according to the 2009 listing. Monthly taxes were
estimated at $2,994.  The suit was previously reported today by the New York
Daily News and the New York Post.  50 Varick mostly housed fiber-optics networks for
telecommunications carriers until recently. It is being
converted into an outpost for Spring Studios, a London-based
fashion and marketing firm, with spaces for photography studios,
offices, a restaurant and bar and event spaces, according to the
petition.  The project also includes plans for a 20,000-square-foot
roof deck with a capacity of 729 people. The project doesn’t
comply with zoning laws and the owner evaded Department of
Buildings review by filing permits for the project as
“professional certifications,” it says.  Professionally Certified  The project was filed with the city as a series of jobs
with permit applications that were “professionally certified,”
meaning that professional affiliates of the owner certify the
plans are in compliance with the law, according to the petition.  The plans have never been reviewed by the Buildings
Department to ensure that they comply with zoning laws and the
building code, and “the entire project thus has been permitted
without appropriate review,” the petition says.  The plans violate zoning law because they don’t show any
space between Varick Street and the roof deck, which must be at
least 10 feet from the street, the petition says.  The petition also claims that the owners “rushed through”
their plans with the Buildings Department. Spring Studios
applied in November to Community Board One for a liquor license
showing a venue with a projected capacity of more than 3,000
people that would close at 4 a.m. seven days a week and feature
dining and liquor service until 2 a.m., live music and a DJ,
according to the petition.  Community Opposition  The community board’s Tribeca Committee tabled the
application in November “because of community opposition,” and
postponed a vote again at its meeting this month “because
substantial community concern remained,” the petition says.  “This plan is far out of scale for Tribeca, and the
community has been deeply concerned by owner’s proposals,” the
petition says.  The owner of One York contacted the Buildings Department to
request an audit of the project and determine whether the
permits should be revoked, and was told by Deputy Commissioner
Pavan that the audit was proceeding, the petition says.  “If DOB issues a final determination that does not revoke
permits for the project, petitioner intends to promptly appeal
such final determination to the Board of Standards and
Appeals,” the petition says. “By the time such action is
taken, however, construction on the project may already be
complete.”  Jefferies Spokesman  Richard Khaleel, a spokesman for Jefferies, declined to
comment on the lawsuit. Y. David Scharf, an attorney
representing the owners of One York, and the Buildings
Department didn’t respond to telephone messages seeking comment
on the petition. The owners of 50 Varick couldn’t be immediately
reached for comment. Braford Sussman, an attorney for Spring
Studios, declined to comment on the petition in a telephone
interview.  “As tenants, Spring Studios is not named or involved in
this action,” Sussman said. “This is a matter for the
landlord, the Department of Buildings and the complainant.”  The case is Raesky LLC v. LiMandri, 100490/2013, New York
State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Oshrat Carmiel in New York
at   ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York
at   lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 