-- Jessops Reopens on London’s Oxford Street Led by ‘Dragons’ Star
-- B y   D a v i d   R i s s e r
-- 2013-03-28T12:13:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/jessops-reopens-on-london-s-oxford-street-led-by-dragons-star.html
Jessops, the U.K. camera chain that
collapsed in January, reopened a store on London’s Oxford Street
as buyer Peter Jones of “Dragons’ Den” television fame said
the retailer promised “a change in how we shop.”  “The potential is huge” as Jessops tries to convince
customers to gather information about products, order online and
come to a store to get their goods, aided by workers who can
explain how to use the equipment, Jones said today in a
Bloomberg Television interview.  Jones, a member of a panel of entrepreneurs who evaluate
investment proposals on “Dragons’ Den,” acknowledged it’s a
tough time to restart a retailer because disposable income is
“strained” in Britain. Business collapses in the U.K. last
year included the Comet electronics chain, JJB Sports Plc and
Clinton Cards Plc. Even so, “people still want to shop and walk
into a store,” Jones said.  The telecom entrepreneur acquired Jessops after
administrators said in January they would close all 187 outlets
as sales declined and were expected to drop further. The
retailer planned 1,370 job eliminations at stores, plus further
losses at the head office in Leicester, England,
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP said in a Jan. 11 statement.  Jessops opened stores in London and Birmingham today, and
will add an outlet a day in April, Jones said. The retailer will
operate fewer shops, “but will cover the U.K.”  The stores will have prices that match the online offer,
with the benefit that shoppers can choose to order online and
pick up their purchase in store, where knowledgeable sales
people can help demonstrate how to use products, Jones said.  “What we’re doing could be the start of a change in how we
shop,” he said, while noting that “click and collect” is
offered by others and that Apple Inc. has revolutionized in-
store sampling of technology. Jessops’s future “is very much
touch and feel.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Risser in London at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Heather Harris at 
 hharris5@bloomberg.net  