-- JetBlue Chief Says American Needs to Give Up D.C. Flights
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-03-28T16:07:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/jetblue-chief-says-american-needs-to-give-up-d-c-flights.html
A merged  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American
Airlines  and  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  should have to give up
flights in Washington as part of their deal, the chief of
 JetBlue (JBLU)  Airways Corp. said.  The combined carriers would control about two-thirds of
flights at Washington’s capacity-controlled Reagan National
Airport, which would harm competition, JetBlue Chief Executive
Officer Dave Barger said in an interview today.  “It is not right for one airline to have two-thirds of the
slots at one airport,” Barger said in an interview at a U.S.
Chamber of Commerce aviation conference. “We feel very strongly
about this.”  Barger called on the U.S. government to order the new
carrier to give up an unspecified number of flights that would
be auctioned to other carriers. Long Island City, New York-based
JetBlue wants to expand its presence in Washington, he said.  The chief executive officers of the companies seeking to
merge, Doug Parker of  US Airways  and  Tom Horton  of AMR, told a
Senate Judiciary Committee panel March 19 that there’s no need
to reduce flights.  The Washington region is served by two other large airports
with robust competition, Horton said. Those airports are
Washington Dulles International and Baltimore/Washington
International Thurgood Marshall. Giving up flights would hinder
the carrier’s ability to serve small communities, Parker said.  The proposed combination, which would create the world’s
largest carrier, won approval from a U.S. bankruptcy judge
yesterday. The  Justice Department ’s antitrust division earlier
this month asked for more information from the companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  