-- Santana Has Shoulder Tear, MLB Mets Say Second Surgery Probable
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-03-29T04:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/johan-santana-has-tear-in-shoulder-mets-say-surgery-possible.html
Johan Santana probably faces
season-ending surgery on the left shoulder that also sidelined
the pitcher for all of 2011, New York Mets General Manager Sandy Alderson told reporters.  Santana, 34, a left-hander who last season became the first
Mets pitcher to throw a no-hitter, is owed $25.5 million this
year. He has played one full season since signing a six-year,
$137.5 million deal when he joined the Mets in 2008.  “A second surgery is a strong possibility,” Alderson said
last night in a conference call. “If this diagnosis proves to
be correct, I think in all likelihood Johan will be lost to the
Mets for the season.”  Santana hasn’t pitched in an exhibition game during Major
League Baseball spring training because of arm weakness.
Alderson said a scan revealed the probable tear.  The four-time All-Star is 46-34 and has had surgery on his
left elbow, right knee and left shoulder since moving to New
York.  “I am not a doctor, nor am I a medical historian,”
Alderson said, “but these injuries are very difficult to
recover from after one surgery, and I’m not sure what the
history is of recovering from a second more or less identical
surgery.”  Peter Greenberg, the pitcher’s agent, told the Associated
Press that Santana didn’t have any comment yet.  Santana, who won the Cy Young Award as the American
League’s best pitcher in 2004 and 2006 while with the Minnesota
Twins, went 6-9 for the Mets last season before being sidelined
in August with inflammation in his lower back.  Santana threw the first no-hitter in franchise history on
June 1 against the St. Louis Cardinals.  “Johan has had an exceptional career,” Alderson said.
“We all hope that career will continue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 