-- JPMorgan Urged by CtW to Change Risk Committee After Whale Loss
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2013-03-28T21:58:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/jpmorgan-urged-by-ctw-to-change-risk-committee-after-whale-loss.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest
U.S. bank, shouldn’t re-nominate three risk committee members
after disclosing more than $6.2 billion in losses on derivatives
trades last year, CtW Investment Group said.  CtW will oppose the re-election of  David Cote , Ellen Futter
and committee Chairman James Crown because they “lack
professional experience relevant to overseeing risk management
at a large financial institution that undertakes significant
trading activity,” the investment firm said today in a letter
to New York-based JPMorgan.  The so-called London Whale trades were the subject of a
report this month by the U.S. Senate Permanent Subcommittee on
Investigations, which found that Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon, 57, misled investors and dodged regulators as the losses
mounted. The bank “piled on risk” and “ignored limits on
risk-taking,” said committee Chairman  Carl Levin , a Michigan
Democrat.  “Both regulators and JPMorgan Chase senior executives
recognize that serious deficiencies in risk-management practices
and internal controls have existed for some time and require
prompt corrective action,” CtW wrote in the letter.  Cote, 60, is chairman and CEO of  Honeywell International
Inc. (HON) , and Crown, 59, is president of Chicago-based Henry Crown &
Co. and lead director of defense contractor  General Dynamics
Corp. (GD)  Futter, 63, a former president of Barnard College in New
York, joined JPMorgan’s board in 1997.  Joe Evangelisti , a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to comment
on the letter. Rob Ferris, a spokesman for Cote at Honeywell,
didn’t immediately comment. Futter and Crown didn’t immediately
return messages seeking comment.  In August, JPMorgan assigned former KPMG International
Chairman Timothy Flynn to its risk committee after an internal
probe blamed lax controls for the trading loss.  The Wall Street Journal reported on CtW’s letter earlier
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  