-- Kansas City Fed’s Manufacturing Survey for March (Text)
-- B y   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-03-28T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/kansas-city-fed-s-manufacturing-survey-for-march-text-.html
Following is the text from
the Kansas City Fed’s Manufacturing Survey.  Tenth District manufacturing activity fell at a slower rate in
March, but producers were considerably more optimistic about
future months. A little over half of all firms indicated a short
supply of workers, but the majority said wage pressures were
generally contained. Most price indexes decreased somewhat after
several months of little change.  The month-over-month composite index was -5 in March, up from -
10 in February but down from -2 in January (Tables 1 & 2,
Chart). The composite index is an average of the production, new
orders, employment, supplier delivery time, and raw materials
inventory indexes. The slight improvement in activity was
largely concentrated in nondurable goods-producing plants,
particularly food and chemicals. Most other month-over-month
indexes also rose, but remained below zero. The production index
increased from -11 to -1, and the shipments and new order
indexes recorded levels of 0, the highest value in seven months.
In contrast, the employment index posted its lowest level since
July 2009, and the new orders for exports index also fell. The
raw materials inventory index increased from -8 to -2, and the
finished goods inventory index also edged higher.  Year-over-year factory indexes were mixed, with generally few
changes overall. The composite year-over-year index improved
from -4 to -1, and the new orders and order backlog indexes also
increased but remained negative. The capital expenditures index
rose for the second straight month and the new orders for
exports index inched higher. The production and shipments
indexes were generally unchanged, while the employment index
eased slightly. Both inventory indexes rose after falling last
month.  Most future factory indexes improved considerably in March. The
future composite index jumped from 4 to 14, and the future
production, shipments, new orders, and order backlog indexes
also increased. The future employment index rose from 2 to 12,
its highest level in six months. In addition, the future capital
expenditures index edged up for the second straight month, and
the future new orders for exports index posted a 15-month high.
Both future inventory indexes increased but remained in negative
territory.  Most price indexes moderated slightly from the previous month.
The month-over-month raw materials price index decreased from 25
to 19, and the finished goods price index fell into negative
territory. The year-over-year raw materials index inched lower,
while the finished goods index moved slightly higher. The future
raw materials price index dropped from 51 to 38, and the future
finished goods price index eased somewhat, indicating fewer
firms plan to pass recent cost increases through to customers.  SOURCE: Federal  Reserve Bank  of Kansas City 