-- Karuturi to Borrow From Sovereign Fund After First Ethiopia Crop
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2013-03-28T11:26:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/karuturi-to-borrow-from-sovereign-fund-after-first-ethiopia-crop.html
Karuturi Global Ltd. (KARG) , the world’s
largest rose grower, said it will borrow more than $100 million
from a sovereign wealth fund to invest in farming in  East Africa 
after selling its first produce from a plantation in  Ethiopia .  The company, based in Bangalore,  India , produced 21,000
metric tons of corn in the last quarter of 2012 that sold for
about $6.5 million in Ethiopia, Managing Director Sai Ramakrishna Karuturi said in a phone interview on March 27. The
harvest, grown on its plantation in western Ethiopia, showed the
project was “not a disaster” after floods destroyed a 60,000-
ton corn crop in September 2011, he said.  The deal with the unidentified fund comes after development
banks declined to provide assistance because of “unfair”
criticism of commercial farming by advocacy groups, Karaturi
said. “Hundreds of millions” of dollars will be advanced to
the company by the end of April and invested in Ethiopian
projects as well as Kenyan flower farms, he said.  Ethiopia’s land-commercialization drive has been attacked
by groups including the California-based Oakland Institute,
which says the farms forcibly displace people and will increase
poverty. Karuturi leased 100,000 hectares (247,105 acres) in the
Gambella region from Ethiopia’s government in November 2010 for
2 million Ethiopian birr ($108,151) a year  Horizon Plantations, majority owned by Saudi billionaire
Mohamed al-Amoudi, leased a 20,000-hectare plot in the western
Benishangul-Gumuz region in September to grow groundnuts to
produce cooking oil.  Jobs, Foreign-Exchange  The benefits of commercial farming in lowland areas of the
country include a boost to crop production to reduce hunger and
more jobs and foreign earnings, according to Ethiopia’s
 Agriculture Ministry .  Since September 2009, the central government has leased
416,803 hectares to 34 domestic and foreign investors with an
average plot size of 12,259 hectares,  data  from the ministry’s
website shows. The state identified 3.3 million hectares of land
nationwide, an area about the size of  Belgium , as suitable for
large-scale farming.  Karuturi’s contract stipulates it should develop half its
plot within 12 months and the remainder the following year. The
agreement starts from the date of signing or “from the date of
receipt of all the clearances from the government.”  The project to grow and process crops including cereals,
sugar, palm oil and vegetables has “good support” from senior
Ethiopian officials, Karuturi said. The leasing of an additional
200,000 hectares to the company is conditional on completion of
the current phase, according to the contract. All land in
Ethiopia is owned by the state.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in  Addis Ababa  at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  