-- Korean Won Rises as Current-Account Surplus Widens; Bonds Gain
-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 2013-03-28T01:43:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/korean-won-rises-as-current-account-surplus-widens-bonds-gain.html
South Korea’s won rose, after the
biggest loss in almost two weeks yesterday, as data showed the
current-account surplus widened in February. Government bonds
gained, pushing the three-year yield to a record low.  The surplus increased to $2.71 billion from $2.33 billion
in January, the Bank of Korea said today. The gap for March is
likely to be similar as improving exports will offset an
expected rise in dividend payments to foreign investors,
according to Cho Yong Seung, a central bank official.  The won climbed 0.2 percent to 1,109.75 per dollar as of
10:32 a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
dropped 0.6 percent yesterday, the most since March 14, as
overseas investors pulled $201 million from South Korea’s stocks
amid worsening tensions with North Korea. Demand for emerging-
market assets also cooled in the past two weeks as Cyprus became
the fifth euro-area member to seek a bailout.  “The widening current-account surplus helped push up the
won as more inflows are expected for this month as well,” said
Jeon Seung Ji, an analyst at Samsung Futures Inc. in Seoul.
“Lingering concerns of geopolitical risks stemming from the
North Korean threat and worries over the  European debt crisis 
are capping gains.”  North Korea yesterday cut a military hotline with the
South, a day after putting its artillery forces on high alert
and threatening to attack the U.S.  One-month implied volatility in the won, a measure of
expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options,
dropped eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 7.66
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Global funds
have sold $1.9 billion more Korean stocks than they bought this
month, exchange figures show.  Growth Forecast  South Korea’s government will cut its 2013 GDP growth
forecast to somewhere in the region of 2.5 percent from 3
percent today, the Maeil Business Newspaper reported, citing
unnamed government officials. The Finance Ministry is scheduled
to release details of its economic policy for this year at 2
p.m. today.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent bonds due December
2015 dropped five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to
2.53 percent, according to prices from Korea Exchange Inc.
That’s the lowest for a benchmark three-year note in Bloomberg
data going back to 2000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in  Seoul  at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  