-- Korea Three-Year Bond Yield Declines to Record on Rate-Cut Bets
-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 2013-03-28T03:50:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/korea-three-year-bond-yield-declines-to-record-on-rate-cut-bets.html
South Korea ’s three-year bond yield
fell the most since July to a record low on speculation the
central bank will cut interest rates as early as next month to
support a slowing economy.  The yield on the 2.75 percent notes due December 2015
dropped nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 2.49
percent, according to prices from  Korea  Exchange Inc. That’s the
lowest for a benchmark three-year note in data compiled by
Bloomberg going back to 2000. The government will cut its 2013
economic-growth forecast to “mid-2 percent” from 3 percent,
the Maeil Business Newspaper reported today. The  Finance
Ministry  is scheduled to release details of this year’s economic
policy at 2 p.m. today.  “Reports that the government may cut its growth projection
boosted expectations the Bank of Korea will need to cut  interest
rates  as soon as in April,” said Yoon Yeo Sam, analyst at
Daewoo Securities Co. in  Seoul . “Even if it’s not in April,
investors are betting the BOK will reduce interest rates at some
point to help the economy.”  Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo has held the seven-
day repurchase rate at 2.75 percent after a 25 basis-point cut
in October. Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok said March 22 that he
would use “all possible measures to speed the economic
recovery.”  South Korea’s gross domestic product expanded last quarter
at the slowest pace since the global recession. GDP rose 1.5
percent from a year ago, the smallest gain since 2009, the
central bank said March 26.  Current Account  The won rose as much as 0.3 percent after official data
showed the nation’s current-account surplus widened in February.
The measure increased to $2.71 billion from $2.33 billion in
January, the  Bank of Korea  said today. The gap for March is
likely to be similar as improving exports will offset an
expected rise in dividend payments to foreign investors,
according to Cho Yong Seung, a central bank official.  The currency was 0.2 percent weaker at 1,113.90 per dollar
as of 12:36 p.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It dropped 0.6 percent yesterday, the most since
March 14, as overseas investors pulled money from South Korea’s
stocks amid worsening tensions with  North Korea . Demand for
emerging-market assets also cooled in the past two weeks as
Cyprus became the fifth euro-area member to seek a bailout.  North Korea yesterday cut a military hotline with the
South, a day after putting its artillery forces on high alert
and threatening to attack the U.S.  One-month implied volatility in the won, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options,
dropped 13 basis points to 7.61 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Global funds have sold $1.9 billion more
Korean stocks than they bought this month, exchange data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  