-- Korea Three-Year Bonds Rise, Won Falls as Growth Forecast Cut
-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 2013-03-28T05:33:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/korea-three-year-bonds-rise-won-falls-as-growth-forecast-cut.html
South Korea ’s three-year bonds rose,
sending the yield to a record low, and the won weakened after
the government cut this year’s economic growth forecast and said
it will provide a stimulus package.  The yield on the 2.75 percent notes due December 2015
dropped nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 2.49
percent, according to prices from  Korea  Exchange Inc. That’s the
lowest for a benchmark three-year note in data compiled by
Bloomberg going back to 2000. The  finance ministry  said the
economy will expand 2.3 percent in 2013, down from a December
forecast of 3 percent and lower than the central bank’s
projection of 2.8 percent.  “The cut in growth projection boosted expectations the
Bank of Korea will need to cut rates as soon as April,” said
Yoon Yeo Sam, an analyst at Daewoo Securities Co. in  Seoul .
“Even if it’s not in April, investors are betting the BOK will
reduce  interest rates  at some point to help the economy.”  Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo has held the seven-
day repurchase rate at 2.75 percent since a 25 basis-point cut
in October. Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok said March 22 he would
use “all possible measures to speed the economic recovery.”  South Korea’s gross domestic product increased last quarter
at the slowest pace since the global recession. GDP rose 1.5
percent from a year ago, the smallest gain since 2009, the
central bank said March 26. The ministry said today it will
unveil a new stimulus package in April to revive the economy.  Current Account  The won earlier rose as much as 0.3 percent after official
data showed the nation’s current-account surplus widened in
February. The measure increased to $2.71 billion from $2.33
billion in January, the  Bank of Korea  said today.  The currency was 0.2 percent weaker at 1,114.18 per dollar
as of 2:29 p.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It dropped 0.6 percent yesterday, the most since
March 14, as overseas investors pulled money from South Korea’s
stocks amid worsening tensions with  North Korea . Demand for
emerging-market assets also cooled in the past two weeks as
Cyprus became the fifth euro-area member to seek a bailout.  North Korea yesterday cut a military hotline with the South,
a day after putting its artillery forces on high alert and
threatening to attack the U.S.  One-month implied volatility in the won, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options,
dropped nine basis points to 7.66 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Global funds have sold $1.9 billion more
Korean stocks than they bought this month, exchange data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  