-- Kroll Hires Four Morningstar Analysts for CMBS in New Office
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2013-03-28T20:55:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/kroll-hires-four-morningstar-analysts-for-cmbs-in-new-office.html
Kroll Bond Rating Agency Inc., the
ratings company started by private investigator Jules Kroll,
hired four analysts from  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  for its commercial-
mortgage backed securities group.  The company named Steve Kuritz as senior director, Laura
Shannon and Bill Peterson as directors, and Mike Haas as an
associate, according to Eric Thompson, who heads the business at
Kroll. The four will work on a surveillance team and report to
Thompson from a new office in Horsham,  Pennsylvania , the same
town where Morningstar houses its credits-ratings business.  “We are pleased to bring on experienced folks with a
wealth of knowledge on the segment,” Thompson said in telephone
interview. “We expect the new location to grow over time.”  Kroll garnered more than 40 percent market share in rating
debt backed by offices, hotels and shopping malls last year,
after entering the sector in July 2011, according to Commercial
Mortgage Alert, an industry newsletter. Kroll graded $21.2
billion of debt, up from $2.8 billion in 2011, putting the New
York-based company behind Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings in market share.  Morningstar’s share of the rated CMBS market declined to
18.7 percent from 23.7 percent, grading $9.85 billion last year,
according to the newsletter. The mutual-fund data company, owned
by billionaire Joe Mansueto, bought credit-rater Realpoint LLC
in 2010, which has the Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating
Organization designation needed for investors required to buy
debt that meets certain ratings criteria. Realpoint’s founder,
Robert Dobilas, left in November.  Shawn Malayter, a Morningstar spokesman, confirmed the
departures and declined to comment further.  Jules Kroll, 71, bought rating-firm Lace Financial in 2010.
Thompson was previously a managing director in the CMBS group at
 Standard & Poor’s  and reports to structured finance leader Kim Diamond, former head of CMBS at S&P.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in  New York  at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  