-- Krugman Wrong to Say Euro Is a Trap, Lithuania’s Sadzius Says
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2013-03-28T08:55:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/krugman-wrong-to-say-euro-is-a-trap-lithuania-s-sadzius-says.html
The benefits of joining the euro
outweigh any costs for rescuing members in crisis, Lithuanian
Finance Minister Rimantas Sadzius said, rejecting economist  Paul Krugman ’s view that the European currency is a “trap.”  “I beg to differ with Mr. Krugman,” Sadzius said today on
Ziniu radio in Vilnius, the Baltic nation’s capital. “The  euro
zone , as a community of highly developed world-leading
economies, has proved its resilience precisely in dealing with
the problems” of Cyprus,  Greece ,  Italy  and  Spain , he said.  Krugman, a Nobel laureate, criticized Poland’s euro
ambitions in a  New York  Times  article  this week, saying joining
the common currency “is at best a gamble, with a potentially
terrible downside.” Lithuania, which seeks to adopt the euro in
2015, views outlays for the switch as an investment that’s sure
to pay off in economic growth, according to Sadzius.  Besides the logistical costs of the change, Lithuania would
have to put an initial 800 million euros ($1 billion) in the
European Stability Mechanism and pledge state guarantees for
possible loans to solve crises in economies of the current 17-
nation currency union, the minister said.  With per capita income that’s just two-thirds of the
European Union average, Lithuania stands to benefit from faster
convergence with other EU economies no matter how they’re
performing, according to Sadzius.  “Our booms don’t reach the level of their busts,” the
minister said. “Getting the euro, if we can qualify, would give
our economy a nice push.”  Lithuania’s government has said the main hurdle to adopting
the euro at the start of 2015 was slowing inflation to below an
EU limit. It would probably be the last of the three Baltic
countries to join. Estonia made the switch in 2011 and Latvia
plans to follow suit next year.  The Lithuanian litas exchange rate has been pegged at a
rate of 3.4528 to the euro in a currency board since 2002.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  