-- Napolitano Seeks Italy Government Solution as Bersani Fails
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-03-29T08:18:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/napolitano-to-seek-italy-government-solution-after-bersani-fails.html
Italian President Giorgio Napolitano took over the search for the next prime minister
after Pier Luigi Bersani failed to assemble a majority in the
divided parliament.  The stalemate stems from “conditions I considered
unacceptable” in the demands of rival lawmakers, Bersani said
yesterday after meeting Napolitano at the presidential palace in
 Rome . The president will consult political leaders today
starting at 11 a.m.  Napolitano, 87, must now find a leader capable of building
consensus where Bersani, the 61-year-old head of the Democratic
Party, came up empty. Differences accumulated during the
campaign before the Feb. 24-25 election hurt Bersani’s ability
to lure his main adversaries, Silvio Berlusconi and Beppe Grillo, into backing his candidacy.  Italy is under pressure to come up with a government
capable of halting the recession and protecting the country from
 Europe ’s debt crisis. Napolitano must appeal to Bersani’s
forces, who control the lower house of parliament, and win
backing from some of the senators loyal to Berlusconi or Grillo.  Interior Minister Anna Maria Cancellieri and Franco Gallo,
president of the Constitutional Court, are among the possible
candidates for premiership, Corriere della Sera reported today
without saying how it got the information.  The president will “personally check the possible
developments in the political-institutional framework,” Donato
Marra, general secretary for the head of state, told reporters.
Napolitano didn’t speak after the meeting with Bersani, whose
party said in a statement that he hasn’t given up hope of
eventually leading a government.  ‘Fingers Crossed’  The next administration will take office with unemployment
at the highest since at least 1992 and an economy that has
produced four  recessions  since 2001. Still, the austerity
imposed by Prime Minister Mario Monti’s 15-month government
slashed the deficit and reduced borrowing costs.  “We keep our fingers crossed that Italy won’t fall apart”
before stability can be restored to parliament, said Georg Grodzki, head of credit research at Legal & General Investment
Management in  London . “Chances are it won’t, because budget-
wise they are in reasonably good shape.”  Monti’s government, brought to power in November 2011 as an
emergency shield against the sovereign debt crisis, was
supported in parliament by an alliance between Bersani and
Berlusconi. Their truce unraveled in December with the start of
the election campaign.  Bersani’s Failure  Bersani squandered a lead in opinion polls prior to the
election as Berlusconi, a three-time premier, and Grillo, an ex-
comic, were quicker to provide recession-scarred voters with
plans for stimulus. When Bersani finally tore up his austerity
platform, his rivals refused to rally around him.  “He ran a very weak campaign with a lack of ideas and only
half sentences and empty metaphors,” said Riccardo Barbieri,
chief European economist at Mizuho International Plc. “There is
a Bersani factor for sure, but there is also a broader context
of recession, rising unemployment and popular discontent.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  