-- Natural Gas May Rise as Spring Cold Snap Buoys Heating Demand
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-03-28T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/natural-gas-may-rise-as-spring-cold-snap-buoys-heating-demand.html
Natural gas may rise next week as
an unusually cold start to spring sparks demand for heating
fuel, a Bloomberg survey showed.  Seven of 11 analysts, or 64 percent, forecast that futures
will advance on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  through April
5. Four, or 36 percent, said gas will decline. Last week, 50
percent of participants said gas would drop.  Temperatures will be below normal across most of the
eastern two-thirds of the U.S. next week, according to Commodity
Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland . Gas futures have jumped
17 percent this month as unusually frigid March weather
bolstered  demand  at the end of the heating season.  “You are still seeing some continued demand from this very
cold winter weather,” said Carl Neill, a consultant with Risk
Management Inc. in Atlanta. “The weekly storage reports over
the past month have been very bullish not only in relation to
last year’s drawdowns but with previous years. The trend can
continue this week and maybe even next week.”  Natural gas futures climbed 14.1 cents, or 3.6 percent, to
$4.068 per million Btu during the first three days of this week
in New York, settling above $4 for the first time since Sept.
14, 2011. Gas is headed for its sixth consecutive weekly gain,
the longest streak since an eight-week gain that ended Oct. 30,
2009. Prices are up 21 percent this year.  The market will be closed tomorrow in observance of Good
Friday.  Weather Outlook  The low temperature in  Minneapolis  on April 1 may be 22
degrees Fahrenheit (minus 6 Celsius), 9 below normal, while
 Boston ’s low the next day may be 32 degrees, 4 below the norm,
according to AccuWeather Inc. in  State College ,  Pennsylvania .  About half of U.S. households use gas for heating,
according to the Energy Information Administration, the Energy
Department’s statistical arm.  Gas stockpiles  probably fell by 90 billion cubic feet in
the week ended March 22, according to the median of 19  analyst
estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The five-year average change
for the week is a gain of 6 billion, EIA data show. The agency
is scheduled to release its weekly storage report today at 10:30
a.m. in  Washington . Last year, supplies rose by 45 billion
during the period.  U.S. stockpiles totaled 1.876 trillion cubic feet in the
week ended March 15, the EIA said last week. The  year-over-year
deficit  widened to 21 percent from 12 percent at the end of
February, the most since April 2008. A  supply surplus  to the
five-year average narrowed to 9.5 percent from 11.4 percent.  The gas survey has correctly forecast the direction of
prices 50 percent of the time since its June 2004 introduction.  Bloomberg’s survey of natural-gas analysts and traders asks
for an assessment of whether Nymex natural-gas futures will
probably rise, fall or remain neutral in the coming week. This
week’s results were:  RISE   FALL   NEUTRAL  7       4     0  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in  New York  at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  