-- NCAA Freshmen One-and-Done Dazzle Does Long-Term Basketball Harm
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2013-03-28T16:50:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/ncaa-freshmen-one-and-done-dazzle-does-long-term-basketball-harm.html
The  University of Kentucky  might
have four freshmen selected in the National Basketball
Association draft this June, after losing eight first-year-
players to the NBA in the previous three seasons.  The Wildcats, who missed the national basketball tournament
after being ranked as high as No. 3 with that crop of freshmen,
are one of the surprises during a college basketball season that
produced different top-ranked teams for five straight weeks and
a No. 15 seed that made it to the regional semifinals for the
first time.  College basketball is getting hurt by one-and-done players
such as  Kentucky ’s  Anthony Davis  and Michael Kidd-Gilchrist, who
were drafted first and second last June, according to coaches,
agents and educators. It would be better for the game and
universities if top players went directly to the NBA, they said.  “Everyone is making a ton of money, and they don’t want to
discuss what it’s doing to the game itself,” said Keith Glass,
an NBA player agent and former high school basketball coach. “I
favor letting them come right out of high school if they are
good enough, or once they sign up for class, they have to play
in college for at least three years so they can mature and
develop their game.”  Among the freshmen NBA prospects still playing as the
National Collegiate Athletic Association round of 16 begins
today include Ben McLemore of  Kansas , Rasheed Sulaimon of Duke
and Glenn Robinson III of  Michigan . The event, which culminates
in the championship game on April 8 in Atlanta, provided the
NCAA with 81 percent of its $871.6 million revenue in the fiscal
year ending 2012 through its television contracts with  CBS Corp. (CBS) 
and Time Warner Inc.  2005 Ban  The NBA and its union agreed in 2005 to ban players from
entering the draft until a year after their high school class
graduates, so they typically take a college scholarship to hone
their skills until the waiting period passes.  The players who do that distort the idea of going to school
for an education, says Wake Forest President  Nathan Hatch ,
chairman of the NCAA Division 1  board . It also leaves college
basketball fans disappointed in losing players after one year.  “It interrupts their educational process, and it’s not
very satisfying as a fan of the team,” Hatch said in an
interview.  Kentucky lost three freshmen starters to the NBA last year,
and Kentucky coach  John Calipari  brought in another crop of
freshman:  Nerlens Noel, Alex Poythress, Archie Goodwin and
Willie Cauley-Stein. Noel, who injured his knee in February, and
the others are all projected as first-round picks, according to
CBS Sports draft analyst Jeff Goodman. Meanwhile, the Wildcats
got four recruits from ESPN’s top 10 list to commit for next
season.  Neither Calipari nor athletic director Mitch Barnhart would
agree to be interviewed.  Syracuse Championship  One-and-done college players are hardly a new phenomenom.
 Syracuse University ’s hall of fame coach  Jim Boeheim , who is
second in Division I career college wins, won one NCAA
tournament championship, in 2003. The star of his team was
freshman  Carmelo Anthony , who had 20 points, 10 rebounds and 7
assists in the championship game against Kansas. Two months
later he was selected by the  Denver Nuggets , the third pick in
the NBA draft.  Boeheim says he doesn’t care whether the player is only
going to be with his team for one year.  “You might get one or two of those guys and the rest are
going to be three and four-year players,” Boeheim said in an
interview. “You can’t recruit that way. You have to take the
best players you can get.”  Best Teams  One upshot is that one-and-done players disproportionately
affect the best teams, Boeheim said. For all its talent,
Kentucky’s team hadn’t played together much this season, and it
showed.  “It’s probably made it more equal for everybody,” Boeheim
said. “The top teams will still be top teams, but they are a
little more beatable.”  Not knowing who will stay in school leaves coaches hanging,
and when players leave after one year it hurts college
basketball, said former Duke center Jay Bilas, now an attorney
and lead college basketball analyst at ESPN.  “If 40 players leave early, that’s eight All-America teams
being lopped off the top echelon of college basketball,” Bilas
said. “Well, that’s going to hurt any enterprise, even one as
big as college basketball,” he said.  Aside from college, one option might be the NBA’s
Development League, where players make $15,000 to $25,000 a
season playing in cities like Erie,  Pennsylvania ;  Sioux Falls ,
 South Dakota ; and Bakersfield,  California . They don’t have to
attend class or do homework and instead can spend 8-10 hours a
day on basketball.  30 Percent  Some 30 percent of the players on current NBA rosters have
played in the D-League and 40 percent of the 2012 draft class
had played in it as of January, according to the NBA.  “College basketball is very competitive, but in the D-
League you are playing against pro basketball players who have
played in the NBA, are currently playing in the NBA, or have
been drafted into the NBA and aren’t on a roster for whatever
reason,” said Chris Alpert, the D-League’s vice president of
basketball operations and player personnel. “It’s the fastest
way to get to the NBA. We had 60 call-ups to the NBA in 2011.”  NBA agent Mark Bartelstein said college is important for
young players, enabling them to develop emotionally and
socially. Plus, they get better marketing from television
exposure.  In the short-term, nothing is going to change, coaches and
administrators say.  The NBA’s position is that it wants players to stay in
school longer so they can develop their basketball skills and
get life experience.  College, Pro?  NBA players want the right to choose whether to attend
college or play professionally immediately after high school.  Meantime, fans of college basketball have to adjust to
roster turnover.  “One of the joys of college sports and being a fan is that
you get to fall in love with the team as you watch a freshman
class grow up,” Bilas said. ‘In the old days, where guys came
in freshman and left four years later arm in arm, those days are
over.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Wilmington, Delaware at   ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  