-- New Yorkers Prefer Water Improvements to Subways: Survey
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2013-03-28T18:15:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/new-yorkers-prefer-water-improvements-to-subways-survey.html
Water and wastewater upgrades top
the wish list for infrastructure improvements by more than four
in five  New Yorkers , surpassing subway lines in importance,
according to survey results released today by  Xylem Inc. (XYL)   The water company whose pumps helped clean tunnels and
homes flooded by  Hurricane Sandy  said the survey showed that 82
percent of residents want  New York  to spend more on water
systems. Almost two-thirds said they’re willing to pay higher
rates to help complete such projects, Xylem said.  “Most people didn’t used to put water at the top of their
issues but after this last year more people are saying, ‘This
could impact me at some level,’ and the results obviously showed
that from the survey,” Chief Executive Officer Gretchen McClain
said today in an interview in New York.  Sixty-three percent of New Yorkers surveyed said they would
pay an average of $8.30 monthly for upgrades to the water
system, parts of which “are 150 years old, making them some of
the oldest in the world,” Xylem said in a statement.  New York residents use an average of 1.2 billion gallons
daily, said  White Plains , New York-based Xylem, which has a
range of products and technologies that transport, treat and
test water and wastewater.  The survey of 250 New Yorkers follows Xylem’s poll last
August of 1,008 Americans, more than half of whom estimated
their daily water use at levels closer to 50 percent of actual
totals. Almost nine of 10 said the U.S. water infrastructure
needs reforming compared with 80 percent two years earlier.  That’s not surprising “given the number of stories in the
paper today about our aging infrastructure, about main breaks,
about  climate change  and significant storms and how they’re
impacting the way we live,” McClain said.  She made her comments the same day that across the  Hudson
River  in Hoboken, N.J., two water mains broke, causing flooding
and leaving parts of the city without water.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  