-- Newtown School Shooter Lanza’s Rifle Had 14 Rounds Left
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-03-28T17:14:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/newtown-school-shooter-s-rifle-had-14-rounds-left-in-clip-1-.html
The man who shot and killed
26 people, including 20 children, at a Connecticut elementary
school in December spent less than five minutes in the building
before taking his own life, leaving 14 unspent rounds in the
magazine of his rifle, state authorities said.  Adam Lanza , 20, shot and killed his mother, Nancy, 52, with
a .22-caliber rifle in her bed without a struggle on the morning
of Dec. 14 before going to Sandy Hook Elementary School and
killing 20 children and six adults while carrying a small
arsenal including a  Bushmaster .223-caliber XM15  rifle, State’s
Attorney Stephen J. Sedensky III in Danbury said today.  Lanza then killed himself with a shot from a Glock 10-mm
handgun, Sedensky said. There were 14 rounds in the rifle’s
30-round magazine and one in the chamber when it was recovered,
and Lanza was carrying a loaded 9-millimeter Sig Sauer P226
handgun and three more fully loaded magazines, Sedensky said. A
loaded 12-gauge shotgun was found in his car.  Sedensky released more information today on the killings at
Sandy Hook, which led to nationwide calls from gun-control
advocates seeking tougher firearms laws. An investigation into
the incident is continuing and no decisions have been made as to
whether to prosecute anyone for related crimes, Sedensky said.  “This is an active, ongoing investigation,” Sedensky
said. “No conclusions have been reached and no final
determinations have been made. The estimation of completion in
the summer remains.”  Governor’s Comment  Governor Dannel P. Malloy said Lanza used legally purchased
high-capacity magazines and “we now know that he left the
lower-capacity magazines at home.”  “This is exactly why we need to ban high-capacity
magazines and why we need to tighten our assault-weapons ban,”
Malloy said today by e-mail from Hartford, the state capital.  In a search warrant description from state police detective
James McGlynn, the school and the home of Nancy Lanza presented
horrific scenes when police arrived.  As officers entered the school, “numerous school children
and school personnel were located deceased from apparent gunshot
wounds in the first three classrooms” and the shooter was found
dead on the floor of the middle classroom “dressed in military
style clothing, wearing a bullet-proof vest.”  At Nancy Lanza’s house they found “a deceased middle-aged
white female lying in a supine position on a bed in the 2nd
floor master bedroom” with “an apparent gunshot wound to her
forehead” and a rifle on the floor nearby.  Two Classrooms  Subsequent investigation showed there were shootings in
only two classrooms and Lanza was not wearing a bulletproof
vest, Sedensky, the prosecutor, said in today’s statement.  In the house, troopers found boxes of ammunition for the
shooter’s weapons and for a 303 British rifle, .45 caliber
handguns, a .40 caliber Smith & Wesson, a 5.56 mm Winchester
weapon, a “box for ‘battle-tested’ vest accessories,” a cache
of knives and three Samurai swords, according to the warrant
packet.  Also seized were “written documents” by Adam Lanza,
including “personal notes, memoirs and thoughts” later turned
over to the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation for analysis.  Warrant-return inventories include a paperback book
entitled “Train Your Brain to get Happy,” and a  New York  Times
article from Feb. 18, 2008, on a school shooting at Northern
Illinois University.  Police also found an “Adam Lanza National Rifle
Association Certificate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 