-- Nokia Says Indian Court Grants Stay on Unpaid-Tax Demand
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g   a n d   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2013-03-28T15:36:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/nokia-says-indian-court-grants-stay-on-unpaid-tax-demand.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the Finnish mobile-phone
maker struggling with falling sales and mounting losses at its
handset unit, said the Delhi High Court granted an interim stay
on an Indian claim of unpaid taxes.  “Nokia confirms it has received an order from Indian tax
officials,” Brett Young, a Nokia spokesman, said in an e-mailed
response to questions today. “Nokia reiterates its position
that it is in full compliance with local laws as well as the
bilaterally negotiated tax treaty between the governments of
India and Finland, and will defend itself vigorously.”  India’s government ordered Espoo, Finland-based Nokia to
pay 20 billion rupees ($368 million) in missing taxes, Bloomberg
TV India reported today, citing unidentified people familiar
with the situation. Nokia filed letters of complaint in February
against authorities’ investigation, which included entering
factories and computer systems. Young didn’t specify a figure
today in India’s demand.  Nokia  rose  as much as 1.5 percent to 2.58 euros and was
trading up 1.1 percent at 5:17 p.m. in Helsinki. That pared the
stock’s decline this year to 12 percent.  Arto Nummela will lead Nokia’s India, Middle East and
Africa operations when current head Shiv Shivakumar leaves at
the end of June, Nokia said today in an e-mailed statement.
Nummela is currently in charge of Nokia’s smart-phone business
in the Americas, according to the statement.  Nokia also announced that Florian Seiche will join the
company as head of European sales June 15. He has led  HTC Corp (2498) ’s
Europe, Middle East and Africa operations since 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  