-- Loan Gains Smallest Since 2008 as Fed Sees Froth: Credit Markets
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   I d z e l i s
-- 2013-03-28T15:05:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/loan-gains-smallest-since-2008-as-fed-sees-froth-credit-markets.html
Leveraged loans  are delivering the
smallest returns at the start of a year since 2008 as the
 Federal Reserve  and other regulators warn that the $561 billion
market may have become too frothy.  Speculative-grade loans have gained 2.1 percent in 2013,
compared with an average of 5.6 percent in the same period the
last four years, according to the Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S.
Leveraged Loan 100 Index. JPMorgan Chase & Co. is forecasting
the debt will return from 5 percent to 6 percent in 2013, or
about half the gains seen last year.  The slowdown may signal that investors are heeding the
 concern  expressed by the Fed that money for the neediest
borrowers is too easy even though default rates are below the
historical average. Investors pushed back on terms of some
deals, demanding that Blackstone Group LP-owned Apria Healthcare
Group Inc. pay more for a $900 million loan it’s seeking.  “An investor shouldn’t expect to earn what they earned
last year because we started with a different set of initial
conditions,” Beth MacLean, a  money manager  at  Newport Beach ,
California-based Pacific Investment Management Co., said in a
telephone interview. “This year you don’t have the  capital
appreciation  upside and it’s really more of a coupon clipping
year.”  Loan Rates  The interest rate paid on loans bought by non-bank lenders
was 3.95 percentage points more than lending benchmarks on March
21, rising from a more than four year low of 3.78 percentage
points in February and headed for the first monthly increase
since November, according to S&P’s Capital IQ Leveraged
Commentary & Data. The so-called margin has narrowed from last
year’s high of 5.15 percentage points in June.  The  price  of leveraged loans has risen to the highest level
in almost six years, increasing more than 2 cents from year-end
to 98.31 cents on the dollar yesterday, according to the
S&P/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 index. Loans climbed more than
5 cents on the dollar in 2012, finishing the year at 96.09
cents, the biggest annual jump since 2009.  As investor demand rises, companies are issuing the debt
with fewer safeguards at a record pace. About $82 billion of so-
called covenant-light loans have been raised this year,
approaching the $87 billion during all of last year and the peak
of $97 billion in 2007, according to S&P Capital IQ LCD.  Regulatory Concern  Prudent underwriting practices have deteriorated with the
inclusion of covenant-light transactions and less-than
satisfactory risk management practices, according to guidance on
March 21 from the Fed, the  Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation , and Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. fell. The Markit CDX
North American Investment Grade Index, a credit-default swaps
benchmark that investors use to hedge against losses or to
speculate on creditworthiness, declined 1.41 basis points to
91.09 basis points, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The indexes typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates and fall as it improves. The
contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet
its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis
point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Commercial Paper  The market for corporate borrowing via  short-term IOUs 
expanded for the first time in four weeks, led by a rise in
issuance from non-U.S. financial institutions.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S.  commercial paper 
climbed $5.3 billion to $1.022 trillion  outstanding in the week
ended yesterday, the Federal Reserve said today on its website.  Bonds of Rotterdam-based LyondellBasell Industries NV were
the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate securities
by dealers today, accounting for 5.38 percent of the volume of
dealer trades of $1 million or more, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  Moody’s Investors Service estimates the U.S. speculative-
grade default rate will “remain low,” ending 2013 at 2.5
percent, down from 3.3 percent in February. The default rate
went from 1.06 percent at the end of 2007 to a peak of 14.7
percent in October and November 2009, according to the ratings
firm.  “Since defaults are so low, even if spreads have
tightened, the excess spread that you get over your default
expectations is higher than it was pre-crisis,” Pimco’s MacLean
said. “On a relative value basis, there are very few places
where investors can get a decent current coupon.”  Loan Issuance  Borrowers obtained $182.7 billion in loans this year from
non-bank lenders, more than half of what was issued in all of
2012, according to JPMorgan. About 47 percent of these loans
were used to reduce borrowing costs.  Financings include a $500 million covenant-light loan
backing Apollo Global Management LLC and C. Dean Metropoulos &
Co.’s purchase of Hostess Brands Inc.’s snack-cake business and
a $1.16 billion debt for drugstore chain Rite-Aid Corp.,
Bloomberg data show.  “The balance is clearly tipped into the favor of the
issuers today,” MacLean said, adding that Pimco, the manager of
the world’s largest bond fund, has participated in less than
half of newly issued and refinanced loans this year. “We are
letting some of the re-pricings go that don’t make sense, and
some of the new issues that are more aggressive we’ll pass on,”
she said.  Blackstone’s Apria  Blackstone’s Apria Healthcare, based in  Lake Forest ,
 California , raised the rate on its loan by 1 percentage point
from its original proposal to attract investors earlier this
month.  The provider of home healthcare products and services in
the U.S. is now offering 5.5 percentage points more than the
London interbank offered rate, up from 4.5 percentage points
initially proposed, according to a person with knowledge of the
matter who asked not to be identified because the terms are
private.  Officials at the Fed, whose asset purchase program and low
 interest rate  policy was put into place to rescue the  U.S.
economy  and get credit flowing again, are now expressing concern
that debt yields near record lows aren’t compensating investors
for their risk.  It’s “unrealistic” to expect loan returns this year will
be as strong as last because the rise in loan prices that drove
2012 gains won’t be matched, Scott Baskind, a New York-based
senior money manager for Invesco Ltd.’s bank loan group, said in
a telephone interview. The coupon will be the largest component
to returns in 2013, he said.  Loan Yields  Investors poured $1.4 billion into U.S. funds last week
that buy leveraged loans, the second-biggest inflow after the
record $1.5 billion during the second week of February,
according to Bank of America Corp.  Leveraged loan  yields  fell to a record 5.6 percent
yesterday, according to JPMorgan index data. The yield-to-worst,
or the lowest potential yield received without a default, on
U.S.  junk bonds  was 5.63 percent yesterday, compared with the
record-low of 5.6 percent on Jan. 25, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes.  “If it’s a nine-inning baseball game and a sustained move
higher in the default rate represents the ninth inning, then
we’re probably in the fourth/fifth inning,” JPMorgan analysts
led by  Peter Acciavatti  wrote in March 22 research report.
“While the peak in  credit quality  is behind us, it doesn’t mean
conditions have rapidly declined.”  Investors in loans have more downside protection than bonds
as they are paid first in bankruptcy or liquidation, while
offering a hedge against inflation because the coupon on the
debt is tied to a floating-rate benchmark.  “The loan market is a place to capture, and protect
against, a rising rate environment,” said Invesco’s Baskind.
Loans offer “very similar, comparable yields” to junk bonds
with less credit risk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Idzelis in  New York  at 
 cidzelis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at  