-- Obama Will Send Fiscal 2014 Budget to Congress April 10
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-03-28T18:01:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/obama-will-send-fiscal-2014-budget-to-congress-april-10.html
President  Barack Obama  will send
his long overdue fiscal 2014 budget to Congress on April 10,
White House spokesman  Josh Earnest  said.  The budget, more than two months late after the legal
deadline of Feb. 4, was delayed by the year-end debate over
taxes and spending, compounded by across-the-board spending cuts
that took effect on March 1.  The spending blueprint outlining Obama’s priorities for the
year beginning Oct. 1 follows House and Senate adoption of
budget resolutions, nonbinding road maps that highlight
differences between Democrats and Republicans over taxes,
spending and the size of government.  Obama’s budget probably won’t change the political debate.
Still, it gives the president a chance to align himself with a
vision of modestly reduced U.S. deficits through higher taxes on
top earners and ending special tax breaks.  The budget release in the morning will be followed by a
private dinner that evening with the president and about a dozen
Senate Republicans, part of the White House effort to court
rivals over spending, taxes and the deficit. Scheduling a dinner
on the same day of Obama’s budget release was “just a happy
confluence of events,” Earnest said today.  Recycled Proposals  Many of the proposals contained in last year’s $3.8
trillion administration budget, never adopted by Congress, are
likely to be recycled. With automatic budget cuts in place, the
White House may be forced to look for savings to pay for
increases in Obama’s priorities, such as education, clean-energy
research and an initial $50 billion in new spending on public
works such as improved roads and bridges.  Other proposals, as outlined in his  State of the Union 
message, wouldn’t need new federal funding. That includes
Obama’s proposal to increase the minimum wage to $9 from $7.25
an hour, creating new manufacturing “hubs,” overhauling
immigration laws and streamlining mortgage rules.  Obama’s budget proposals may seek to trim spending on
social programs, cuts opposed by key Democratic lawmakers and
liberal constituencies.  Obama has proposed a less-generous measure of inflation,
called the chained  Consumer Price Index , that would have the
effect of limiting Social Security benefit increases.  The president also has proposed, in budget talks with
Congress, to cut Medicare spending by $140 billion over a decade
by squeezing more savings from drug companies, hospitals and
other providers. Another proposal is to charge wealthy seniors
about $35 billion more over a decade for their Medicare
coverage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  