-- Obama Presses to Tighten Gun Controls, Curb Violence
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r ,   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-03-29T02:39:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/obama-presses-to-tighten-gun-controls-curb-violence.html
Almost four months after a mass
shooting at a Connecticut elementary school stirred calls to
curb gun violence, President  Barack Obama  sought to boost
flagging momentum in his drive for stricter firearms controls.  Flanked by teachers and mothers of gun-violence victims,
Obama yesterday urged lawmakers to pass legislation to expand
background checks on gun buyers, ban civilian sales of military-
style rifles and limit the ammunition capacity of magazines.  “There’s absolutely no reason that we can’t get this
done,” he said, calling the proposals the best chance in more
than a decade for reducing gun violence. “None of these ideas
should be controversial.”  The prospects for Obama’s gun-safety agenda have faded amid
opposition in Congress and waning public enthusiasm for several
of the initiatives. Senate leaders have ruled out the assault-
weapons ban and magazine limits, while tighter background checks
-- still backed in public polls -- face an uncertain outcome.  Obama spoke yesterday as investigators in  Connecticut 
disclosed new details about the massacre and as  Mayors Against
Illegal Guns , a pro-gun-control group, began a campaign of
rallies,  television advertisements  and news briefings. Obama
will travel to Denver next week to build support for his gun
agenda.  In his remarks, Obama recalled how the Dec. 14 killing of
20 children and six educators at Sandy Hook Elementary School
reignited the national debate about gun violence.  “Less than 100 days ago that happened and the entire
country was shocked,” he said. “Shame on us if we’ve
forgotten.”  Television Ads  The rallies and TV ads, featuring families of those killed
in Newtown, were organized by the mayors’ group led by New
York’s Michael Bloomberg and  Boston ’s Thomas Menino. Bloomberg
is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg
LP.  In Phoenix, about 20 speakers and supporters gathered near
City Hall, where the Rev. Warren Stewart of First Institutional
Baptist Church urged, “Don’t just pray about it, contact your
congressmen.” They then carried petitions downtown calling on
Republican U.S. Senators Jeff Flake and John McCain to support
universal background checks on gun buyers and a ban on assault
weapons.  At a library in north Philadelphia, Mayor Michael Nutter
spoke to about a dozen people. He was flanked by seven children
wearing t-shirts labeled “Guns Gotta Go.” One boy, a 10-year-
old named Kevin, told the mayor he knew twins who had both been
shot in the head, Nutter said.  Five Minutes  Authorities in Connecticut said yesterday that  Adam Lanza ,
the shooter in the Newtown killings, spent less than five
minutes in the Sandy Hook Elementary School building before
taking his own life.  Lanza, 20, used a .22-caliber rifle to shoot and kill his
mother, Nancy, 52, in her bed without a struggle on the morning
of Dec. 14 before going to the school with a small arsenal
including a  Bushmaster .223-caliber XM-15  rifle, State’s
Attorney Stephen J. Sedensky III in Danbury said yesterday.  After the massacre, Lanza killed himself with a shot from a
10 mm Glock pistol, Sedensky said. There were 14 rounds in the
Bushmaster’s 30-round magazine and one in the chamber when it
was recovered, and Lanza was carrying a loaded 9 mm Sig Sauer
P226 pistol and three loaded magazines, Sedensky said. A loaded
12-gauge shotgun was found in his car.  Governor Dan Malloy said yesterday that Lanza used legally
purchased high-capacity magazines and “we now know that he left
the lower-capacity magazines at home.”  “This is exactly why we need to ban high-capacity
magazines and why we need to tighten our assault-weapons ban,”
Malloy said by e-mail from Hartford, the state capital.  Votes Lacking  U.S. Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid of  Nevada  plans to
call for votes next month on legislation that includes expanded
background checks and penalties for gun trafficking. The bill
won’t include limits on assault weapons and high-capacity
magazines, which Reid says don’t have the votes to pass.  At least three Republican senators -- Mike Lee of  Utah ,
Rand Paul of  Kentucky  and Ted Cruz of  Texas  -- have said they
will block a vote on gun legislation.  The president’s proposals “reduce the constitutionally
protected rights of law-abiding citizens while having little or
no effect on violent crime,” Lee said in a statement. “It is
deeply unfortunate that he continues to use the tragedy at
Newtown as a backdrop for pushing legislation that would have
done nothing to prevent that horrible crime.”  Fading Support  Public support for tighter gun control has fallen by 10
points, to 47 percent from a high of 57 percent just after the
shootings, according to a  national poll  by CBS News. Ninety
percent said they favor background checks for all would-be gun
buyers.  The telephone survey March 20-24 of 1,181 adults had a
margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.  In a March 25 interview on the NBC News program “Meet the
Press,” Bloomberg announced a $12 million television ad
campaign in 13 states urging senators to support universal
background checks for gun purchases.  Wayne LaPierre, chief executive officer of the National
Rifle Association, a gun-rights lobbying group based in Fairfax,
 Virginia , said the ads won’t persuade the public to support gun
restrictions.  Appearing on the same NBC program, LaPierre called
universal checks “a dishonest premise. Criminals aren’t going
to be checked. They’re not going to do this.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  