-- On Gay Marriage, Moderation Could Be Disastrous
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2013-03-28T17:22:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/moderate-path-on-gay-marriage-could-be-disaster.html
Conventional wisdom formed quickly
this week after oral arguments in the two  same-sex marriage
cases  before the U.S. Supreme Court. The gist is that the court
would duck the fundamental question of whether the Constitution
guarantees everyone the right to marry -- implied in the
California Proposition 8 case -- and strike down the Federal
Defense of Marriage Act on the limited ground that it interferes
with states’ rights.  Don’t be too sure. It’s not just that oral arguments can be
deceiving. (Remember the broccoli obsession in the Obamacare
arguments? Almost no one thought Chief Justice  John Roberts 
would provide the deciding vote to uphold the law.)  Justice Anthony Kennedy, the perennial swing voter, might
well prefer some gradual way to introduce gay marriage without
producing the headline “Court Grants Gay Marriage.” But the
problem with this gradual strategy envisioned by court observers
and attributed to Kennedy is that it would create anomalies
leading to a nightmarish barrage of new litigation. Instead of
attenuating criticism of the court by avoiding a single
“Eureka” moment, the court would put itself, along with lower
courts, at the center of hundreds more headlines for years to
come. And they would all be of the same ilk: “Court Creates
Legal Nightmare; Citizens on All Sides Angry.”  Messy Benefits  To understand the mess that would result if the court
struck down DOMA without finding a general right to same-sex
marriage, consider what would happen if the federal government
recognized marriages performed in states that allow gay couples
to marry while continuing to deny marital status to couples in
other states.  In the first, most optimistic scenario, one or several
marriage-friendly states might allow anyone from any state to
get married there, creating a Las Vegas-style business in same-
sex marriage. Gay couples would return to their home states with
a piece of paper that should, in principle, entitle them to
federal marital tax status, immigration benefits and more. But
their home states would probably decline to recognize those out-
of-state marriages, and deny them state-level marriage benefits.  If the  Supreme Court ’s decision to strike down DOMA
depended on finding that states have an inherent right to define
marriage in which the federal government cannot infringe, then
the home states’ policy would probably be upheld. The result
would be couples who are both married and unmarried for purposes
of the same tax returns, mortgages and hospital visits. Each of
these conflicts would be brought to the courts. State and
federal courts would probably render divergent conclusions --
across all 50 states and 13 federal circuits. If this isn’t
legal chaos, nothing is.  If no state wanted to attract business by becoming the
same-sex-marriage hub for out-of-state residents, then the
anomaly would arise when legally married gay couples moved to
states that didn’t recognize their unions. Presumably they would
nevertheless bring their federal benefits with them -- giving
rise to the same legal issues just described. The only
difference would be that litigation would build up slowly,
rather than overnight. And what, pray tell, would happen if some
of those couples wanted to get divorced but found themselves in
legal limbo because their original states of marriage refused to
administer a divorce while they lived far away? Would the
federal government treat them as divorced even without a state-
issued document to that effect?  Two Marriages  Some scenarios are downright funny. Suppose I married
someone of the same sex in  New York  and that marriage wasn’t
recognized in Pennsylvania. If I then decided to marry someone
of the opposite sex in Pennsylvania, the state would presumably
recognize that marriage while New York recognized my previous
one. And both marriages would be recognized by the federal
government, which would treat me as a lawful bigamist. That
would be good news for 19th century Mormons, who were denied a
federal constitutional right to plural marriage -- but most
people today would find the conclusion truly bizarre.  The federal government couldn’t easily get out of this bind
by saying it only recognized one valid marriage at a time,
because in this scenario the court would have announced that the
definition of marriage was fundamentally up to states.
Recognizing only the New York marriage would violate
 Pennsylvania ’s right to ignore the New York decision.  Examples could be multiplied, but you get the point. Today,
non-recognition doesn’t have any real federal redress or create
the situation where you are federally married and not state-
married at the same time. Tomorrow, the problems that already
exist in a world where some states recognize same-sex marriage
and others don’t would be compounded and thrown into the federal
courts.  The court’s supposed motivation to avoid declaring a
general right to same-sex marriage is to allow the political
process to take its course, and not impose a unified federal
solution before everybody’s ready to accept it. Those with this
cautious view like to cite Roe v. Wade as an example of a
federal constitutional right that was granted before its time,
creating a major backlash. Some would even go so far as to say
that Brown v. Board of Education came too soon, as evidenced by
Southern resistance to desegregation -- this despite the court’s
infamous declaration that its mandate should be implemented
“with all deliberate speed.”  But this theory relies on the assumption that even a messy
political process would be superior to judicial fiat because it
would leave the courts out of the equation. A partial or split
decision on same-sex marriage would have the opposite effect.
Instead of promoting what the great Alexander Bickel called the
“passive virtue” of judicial prudence, it would put judges
front and center on the issue for the foreseeable future. From
the court’s perspective, it would be easier just to do the right
thing. Here’s hoping  Anthony Kennedy  sees it that way.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of the forthcoming “Cool War: The Future of Global
Competition,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. Follow him on
 Twitter . The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman at  noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 