-- OGX Seen Tapping Batista’s $1 Billion Pledge: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-03-28T15:56:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/ogx-seen-tapping-batista-s-1-billion-pledge-corporate-brazil.html
As fortunes wane for Brazilian
billionaire  Eike Batista , his  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes
SA (OGXP3)  oil company probably will demand another $1 billion from its
biggest shareholder as soon as next month.  OGX will likely exercise the right to sell shares to
Batista to carry out its business plan and bid for Brazilian oil
blocks in May after the company’s cash holdings shrank, analysts
including  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4) ’s Auro Rozenbaum and Banco Itau SA’s
Paula Kovarsky said.  Shares in Batista’s public companies declined as much as 84
percent in the past year after OGX cut oil output targets,
erasing more than $25 billion of his personal fortune. A failed
bond sale by his  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3)  shipbuilder this month signals
investors aren’t willing to put money into his natural resources
and logistics startups, Rozenbaum said.  “There’s no appetite in the debt market and they are kind
of short on cash,” Rozenbaum said by phone from Sao Paulo. The
stock option “is the way to get financial relief.”  In October, Batista agreed to buy as much as $1 billion of
shares in Rio de Janeiro-based OGX at 6.30 reais each by April
30, 2014, to guarantee enough cash to expand the company’s
exploration portfolio. A revenue shortfall, rising spending and
difficulties in finding partners leaves the company reliant on
Batista’s pledge to fund $1.3 billion of investments planned for
this year, said Kovarsky, the fourth most accurate oil analyst
of the 19 who follow the stock.  The per-share purchase price is more than twice yesterday’s
 close  of 2.39 reais. OGX rose 0.8 percent to 2.41 at 12:55 p.m.
in Sao Paulo.  ‘Additional Pressure’  OGX’s spending plan “puts additional pressure on the
company’s cash position, requiring the exercise of the $1
billion put option,” Kovarsky said in a note to clients.  Cash holdings  fell 42 percent in 2012 to $1.66 billion
after dry wells cost the company about $343 million, OGX said
March 26. The amount fell short of a target set in November to
hold as much as $1.9 billion by the end of last year.  Higher costs and lower-than-expected output led OGX to post
a net loss of 1.14 billion reais ($568 million) in 2012, more
than the losses of its six previous years combined and the worst
annual result for any of Batista’s publicly traded units,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Losses at the
billionaire’s interlinked commodities and logistics startups
jumped 163 percent last year to 2.48 billion reais, the data
show.  ‘Capital Discipline’  OGX is interested in competing for exploration areas on and
off the coast of northeastern  Brazil  that the government is
offering in the so-called Round 11 auction in May, Chief
Financial Officer Roberto Monteiro said in a conference call
yesterday. The company didn’t include potential bids in its 2013
spending plan and may sell stakes in existing assets to finance
the purchase of new areas, he said, adding OGX has no plans to
sell more debt.  “We have the possibility of farming down some of our
assets, we have a majority in all our assets,” Monteiro said.
“Any participation in the bid round will come from a lot of
capital discipline.”  OGX’s press department didn’t respond to an e-mail and
phone call seeking comments.  Batista can also raise money by selling a stake in OGX to
another oil company, said Joao Brugger, who helps manage 300
million reais at Leme Investimentos Ltda., including OGX shares.  “Partnerships would be the most intelligent way to
finance,” Brugger said by phone from Florianopolis, Brazil. “A
strategic partner like he did with his energy company.”  Esteves Help  Brazilian billionaire  Andre Esteves ’s  Grupo BTG Pactual (BBTG11) 
this month agreed to help manage the finances of Batista’s
companies. BTG provided Batista’s EBX Group Co. holding company
with a $1 billion line of credit as part of the deal, a person
with direct knowledge of the accord said earlier this month.  It would make sense for Batista to reduce his stake in his
companies between 20 percent and 30 percent, Esteves told
newspaper Estado de S. Paulo in an interview published March 24.  Batista’s MPX, a power company that buys natural gas from
OGX, said on March 26 that it’s in “advanced talks” to sell a
stake to EON SE,  Germany ’s biggest utility.  The first two wells at OGX’s Tubarao Azul field off the
coast of Brazil’s Rio state are producing a little less than
10,000 barrels a day, Chief Executive Officer Luiz Carneiro said
in a March 26 earnings report. The company originally planned to
pump as much as 20,000 barrels a day from each well at Tubarao
Azul and is scaling back estimates for recoverable volumes at
the field after production missed targets.  “They are far from previous expectations,” Rozenbaum
said. “They need this solution, considering the alternative is
there, this is the way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  