-- Tohoku Electric Shelves Plan to Build Nuclear Plant in Fukushima
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2013-03-28T08:35:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/tohoku-electric-shelves-plan-to-build-nuclear-plant-in-fukushima.html
Tohoku Electric Power Co. (9506) , power
supplier to the areas most devastated by 2011’s quake and
tsunami, scrapped plans to build a new nuclear power plant in
Fukushima prefecture amid opposition from local towns.  The Miyagi-based utility widened its net loss forecast for
the year ending March 31 to 105 billion yen ($1.1 billion) from
an earlier projection of 100 billion yen after dropping the 825
megawatt Namie-Odaka plant, it said in a statement today. The
company will book about 18 billion yen as a one-time charge for
this fiscal year because of the cancellation, it said.  The Fukushima government  pledged  to end its dependence on
nuclear power after the magnitude-9 quake and ensuing tsunami
caused meltdowns at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-
Ichi nuclear station, forcing about 160,000 people to evacuate.
Namie town and Minamisoma city lawmakers had called for
abandoning the plan to build the Namie-Odaka reactor in their
neighborhood, according to the utility.  Before the Fukushima disaster, the utility had planned to
start operations of the Namie-Odaka plant in fiscal 2021.
Construction was scheduled to start in fiscal 2016 under the
earlier plan, it said in a statement today.  Tohoku Electric reaffirmed plans to build the No. 2 reactor
at its Higashidori nuclear plant in a power plant development
plan released today while noting that it’s “uncertain” when
construction and operations will begin.  “We still believe nuclear is a necessary source of
electricity,” Takashi Suzuki, a Tohoku Electric spokesman, said
by phone today. The utility will work on restarting idled
reactors at Higashidori and Onagawa plants, he said.  The utility expects to restart the No. 1 Higashidori
reactor in July 2015 and the Onagawa plant as early as April
2016, it said in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  