-- Hollande Presses French to Embrace Social Revamp to Spur Growth
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-03-28T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/hollande-presses-french-to-embrace-social-revamp-to-spur-growth.html
President  Francois Hollande  pressed
the French to accept reduced pension and welfare benefits as
part of a national effort to revive a  moribund economy  and stem
a rise in unemployment that has caused his popularity to slump.  In a national  television interview  last night that lasted
more than an hour, Hollande promised to revise a 75 percent levy
on salaries over 1 million euros and avoid any new tax increases
next year while reducing state spending. The government will cut
red tape for businesses and protect the  defense budget , he said.  “We can’t wait for growth, we must go find it,” Hollande
said. “I don’t want to just restore the public finances to
order. I need to show we can do better.”  The changes to jobless benefits and a proposed cut in
payouts to families would be unprecedented in France, while a
plan to lengthen the number of work years would extend moves
begun by Hollande’s predecessor,  Nicolas Sarkozy . The measures
underline the challenges the Socialist president faces as he
seeks to balance demands of voters with pressure from  bond
investors  and France’s European partners to overhaul the
region’s second-largest economy.  French growth has been stalled for two years and national
statistics office Insee said last week that the stagnation would
extend through June.  Jobless claims  have risen for 22 straight
months as companies ranging from  PSA Peugeot Citroen SA (UG)  to
Alcatel Lucent slash tens of thousands of jobs. The number of
people looking for work is just shy of the record 3.196 million
reached in January 1997.  Borrowing Costs  The  premium  France pays over  Germany  to borrow for 10 years
has crept up in recent weeks, reaching 74 basis points yesterday,
compared with as little as 58 points in mid-December. At just
over 2 percent, the yield on  France ’s benchmark 10-year bond
remains near a record low -- something Hollande indicated he
wanted to preserve.  “I always said these two years would be difficult,”
Hollande said, repeating a pledge to stop the rise in
unemployment by year-end and vowing that economic recovery will
take hold by the close of 2013.  Making good on those promises is key to reviving Hollande’s
political fortunes. The economic gloom has rendered him the
most-unpopular French president in more than 30 years, according
to a TNS-Sofres poll in February. His approval rating fell 8
percentage points in the past month and is at a record low for a
president 10 months into his mandate, a BVA poll showed.  Social Overhaul  Efforts to curb state spending will touch some welfare
benefits that have been central to French lives for decades.  Hollande said that unemployment payments will have to
include more incentives to return to work, and that the
structure of child benefits would be reviewed. Longer  life
expectancy  would force people to work longer, he said.  “We live longer, which is very good, but we’ll have to pay
into the system longer,” Hollande said. “For wealthier
families to get the same childcare support as poorer families,
no, that won’t last.”  To rally support from his Socialist base, Hollande
announced a re-jigged version of his campaign promise to tax all
salaries above 1 million euros at 75 percent, which had been
shot down by France’s constitutional court. In its revised form,
companies, not employees, for the next two years will pay a
surcharge equal to 75 percent of all salaries above 1 million
euros, circumventing objections raised by the court.  Spending Cuts  At the same time, the government aims to reduce state
spending by 1.5 billion euros next year, the first absolute
decline in decades, Hollande said. The 30 billion-euro defense
budget will be frozen -- not reduced -- and France’s nuclear
deterrent will be preserved, he added.  The French government next month will present a “ White
Paper ” laying out the defense priorities for the next five
years. With the government seeking spending cuts to close its
 budget deficit , military leaders have taken to the media to warn
of the risks of slashing the country’s defense capabilities just
as it’s fighting a land war in  Mali .  Hollande, who is juggling protests against gay marriage and
the bail-in of bank depositors in Cyprus along with unemployment
and dropping purchasing power, said it is voters who will judge 
his success at the next election in 2017.  “I want to be judged on one thing only: did I allow France
to advance? If I didn’t, I deserve a sanction,” he said. “I
have sangfroid, steady nerves.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  