-- Hollande Economic Woes Masked by Cyprus Fig Leaf: Euro Credit
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-03-28T11:57:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/hollande-economic-woes-masked-by-cyprus-fig-leaf-euro-credit.html
French President Francois Hollande
is basking in borrowing costs at near record lows, helped most
recently by investors seeking shelter from problems in Cyprus.  The yield on  France ’s benchmark 10-year bond fell 4 basis
points to 2.026 percent during the 10 days as European
authorities roiled markets by imposing a tax on depositors in
Cypriot banks. The French rate is just short of the all-time low
of 1.92 percent reached in December.  Hollande will be able to boast about that when he appears
on national television tonight to defend his management of
Europe’s second-largest economy and attempt to bolster his
sagging popularity. The pitch is a tough sell to citizens and
investors alike, who know the bond rally conceals a two-year
stagnation in the economy with joblessness near a record high.  “I don’t see any value in French bonds” at current
levels, said Robin Marshall, director of fixed-income at Smith &
Williamson Investment Management in London. “The reforms in
France have stalled and the economy is contracting. The problem
in the peripheral space helped to divert attention of the market
from these problems.”  French bonds gained 0.4 percent since the Cyprus woes took
center stage about two weeks ago, beating Belgian bonds’ 0.26
percent rise and lagging behind AAA rated countries as  Germany 
returned 1.0 percent, the Netherlands 0.9 percent and Austria
0.5 percent. France was stripped of its top credit rating last
year by Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service.  Cyprus Woes  With an overstretched banking system, Cyprus has struggled
to lock in a bailout from the European Union. An original plan
that would have imposed a levy on all bank deposits to raise 5.8
billion euros ($7.4 billion) prompted street protests and was
rejected by the Cypriot parliament.  Under the agreement reached in the early hours of March 25
with the EU and International Monetary Fund, account holders
with up to 100,000 euros in the nation’s banks will be spared.
Uninsured deposits over the threshold now face as much as 40
percent losses at Bank of Cyprus Pcl, the country’s largest
bank. Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl, the second biggest, will be wound
down, hitting uninsured depositors and bondholders.  European governments vowed yesterday that the swoop on bank
accounts to finance Cyprus’s aid package won’t set a precedent
for future rescues. Still, Cyprus is “a net negative story for
peripheral countries,” said  Luca Jellinek , head of European
fixed-income strategy at Credit Agricole CIB in London.  Cyprus’s banks opened today for the first time in almost
two weeks, with new rules curbing access to cash preventing an
initial panic to withdraw deposits. They opened at midday local
time, with lines of about 15 to 20 people waiting to enter
branches in the Cypriot capital.  Spreads Widening  “That will support demand for relative safety of bonds
from core countries, and I see France as part of that, even at
the time when people are focusing on politics and the popularity
of Mr. Hollande,” he said.  The spread between French and German 10-year debt is
widening. It was 75 basis points as if 11:50 a.m. in  London , up
from 61 basis points 10 days ago and 58 in mid-December.  France’s economy remains in the doldrums.  Growth shrank  0.3
percent in the fourth quarter, the national statistics office
Insee said yesterday. The economy has been essentially stalled
for the past two years and Insee predicted last week that
stagnation will extend through the first half of 2013.  French  jobless claims  rose for a 22nd straight month in
February as companies pared payrolls. The increase, propelled by
firings at companies such as Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. and
 Alcatel-Lucent (ALU) , brings the number of claimants to just shy of
the record 3.196 million in January 1997. The 10.6 percent
unemployment rate is the highest in more than 13 years.  ‘Unique’ Opportunity  For France’s international partners, Hollande needs to step
up efforts to improve its competitiveness by holding down wages,
cutting the deficit and increasing labor flexibility. The
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said last
week that Hollande has a “unique” opportunity to overhaul his
nation’s economy.  “France is seen as a country that has a lot of work to do
to restore its competitiveness, to rebalance its public
finances,” European Central Bank executive board member Benoit Coeure said this week on  Europe  1 radio. “It has begun, it’s
going in the right direction, but it won’t happen on its own.
There’s a lot left to do.”  The economic gloom has rendered Hollande the most-unpopular
French president in more than 30 years, according to a TNS-
Sofres poll in February. His approval rating fell 8 percentage
points in the past month and is at a record low for a president
10 months into his mandate, a BVA poll showed last week.  Capital Flight  In his TV appearance tonight, Hollande may seek to focus on
the dire state of the economy he inherited and his efforts over
the 10 months since he’s been in power, including managing to
keep French borrowing costs for 10 years at close to 2 percent.  “Hollande needs to use his television appearance to
inspire confidence,” said  Emmanuel Riviere , a pollster at TNS
Sofres in Paris. “He needs to show the French they have reason
to be confident in themselves and they have reason to be
confident in his leadership.”  He may eventually have to face up to the fact that troubles
elsewhere in the euro region will come back to bite France, said
Smith & Williamson’s Marshall.  “We don’t know how long France will continue to benefit
from this type of safe-haven flows,” he said. “At the end of
the day, the problem in Cyprus or other peripheral countries are
not going to make it easier for countries that are not growing.
The risk of capital flight and deposit run are greater now than
it was before.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  