-- Hong Kong to Raise Air Quality Standards and Cut Emissions
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g   a n d   A l e x a n d r a   H o
-- 2013-03-28T07:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/hong-kong-to-raise-air-quality-standards-and-cut-emissions-1-.html
Hong Kong will raise its air
quality standards for the first time since 1987 as the former
British colony targets a reduction in vehicle and vessel
emissions to clear up smoggy skies.  Hong Kong will use air quality standards set by the World
Health Organization as a reference for its own objectives, the
government said today in a statement. The new air quality
targets and monitoring index will be unveiled next year, and the
government will review its goals at least once every five years.  Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying has made cleaning up the
city’s skies a priority with air quality in Hong Kong worsening
since 2007 and failing to match New York and London. The Chinese
city has never met its air quality targets since they were
adopted 26 years ago, according to a government audit in
November.  “The ultimate objective is to balance development against
our latest air quality objectives by 2020,” Wong Kam-sing,
secretary for environment, said today at a press conference.
“We can say that we’re prepared to deploy a lot of resources
into this.”  In January, Leung said the city will offer HK$10 billion
($1.3 billion) in subsidies to replace old diesel vehicles and
limit their life-span to battle smog that’s responsible for more
than 3,000 premature deaths a year.  The city is seeking to enact legislation that will mandate
ships berthing at its ports to switch to cleaner fuel over the
next two years, the government said in its statement.  High Pollution  There were 175 days of very high pollution in 2011, more
than twice the figure from 2007, the government said in an audit
report in November. Very high pollution is indicated by an index
number of more than 100, which triggers a government warning for
people with heart or respiratory illnesses to avoid prolonged
stays in heavy-traffic areas.  The new air quality index will be stricter and contain more
information on the health impact of pollution, Christine Loh,
undersecretary for the environment, said at the conference.  “With the tightening of the air quality objective and the
use of the (new index), the number of hours that the air
pollution is rated at ‘high’ or ‘very high’ will substantially
increase,” the government said in the statement.  The city wants to cut sulpur dioxide emissions by 25
percent from 2010 levels by 2015, and by as much as 75 percent
by 2020, the government said. It is seeking a reduction of as
much as 30 percent for nitrogen oxide emission by 2020 from 2010
levels.  Commercial diesel vehicles are the biggest contributors to
roadside pollution, Loh said in December.  The government today also highlighted plans including low
emission zones for franchised buses and installing emission
reduction devices in those vehicles.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net ;
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  