-- Monte Paschi Posts Third Straight Quarterly Loss on Bad Loans
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2013-03-28T17:04:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/monte-paschi-posts-third-straight-quarterly-loss-on-bad-loans.html
Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena 
SpA,  Italy ’s third biggest bank, reported a third straight
quarterly loss, missing analysts estimates, on soaring bad-loan
provisions and lower income from lending.  The net loss of 1.59 billion euros ($2 billion) in the
fourth quarter compared with a loss of 5 billion euros a year
earlier, when the bank wrote down goodwill related to
acquisitions, the Siena-based lender said in a statement today.
That missed the 686.3 million-euro loss estimated by 11 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Monte Paschi, engulfed by investigations of its former
managers, is selling assets, cutting costs and reducing risks to
return to profit. Chief Executive Officer Fabrizio Viola and
Chairman  Alessandro Profumo , appointed last year to turn around
the 541-year-old bank, are trying to regain confidence of
investors after the lender was forced to seek a second state
rescue in four years and to take a 730 million-euro hit linked
to derivative contracts.  “The bank will likely need more help going forward, as its
bad loans continue to rise, and its operating profits
struggle,” said  Alberto Gallo , head of European credit research
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. Bad loans as a proportion
of total lending may rise 1 percentage point to 2 percentage
points a quarter, for “at least” another four quarters, he
said.  Loan-loss provisions increased to 1.37 billion euros in the
quarter from 464 million euros a year earlier. Revenue declined
37 percent to 778.3 million euros, hurt by a net interest income
drop of 52 percent to 434.5 million euros.  The  new management  said in June it would strengthen
finances by selling its leasing and consumer credit units,
closing 400 branches and eliminating 4,600 jobs by 2015. The
revised plan has to be submitted to the  European Banking
Authority (BMPS)  by June.  Regulators and prosecutors are scrutinizing derivative
deals dubbed Alexandria, Santorini and Nota Italia that obscured
losses under former management.  Bloomberg News  first reported on
Santorini on Jan. 17.  Prosecutors are also probing former executives for alleged
market manipulation, false accounting and obstruction of
regulatory activity during the 2007  takeover  of Banca
Antonveneta SpA, people with knowledge of the matter have said.  Monte Paschi was unchanged at 18.5 cents in  Milan trading 
before earnings were released. Shares almost halved in the last
12 months, giving the bank a market value of 2.16 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  