-- Moody’s Keeps Irish Non-Investment Rating After Cypriot Crisis
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2013-03-28T09:41:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/moody-s-keeps-irish-non-investment-rating-after-cypriot-crisis.html
Moody’s Investors Service
maintained Ireland’s non-investment rating and negative outlook,
citing risks in the euro area following the Cyprus bailout and
the poor asset quality of Irish banks.  Moody’s affirmed Ireland’s Ba1 rating, one level below
investment grade.  “Moody’s believes that Ireland’s vulnerability to wider
euro-area stresses has been reaffirmed by euro-area policy
makers’ handling of the Cyprus crisis,” Moody’s said in a
statement today. “The second driver for maintaining Ireland’s
sovereign rating on negative outlook is the continued poor asset
quality of Ireland’s banking system.”  The approach by European leaders to Cyprus highlights an
“uncompromising and less predictable approach to crisis
management,” according to Moody’s, which also left  Portugal ’s
ratings unchanged. While Ireland has made steady progress in
regaining market access, the country’s banks have yet to make
adequate provision for non-performing loans, according to
Moody’s.  “Following the almost uninterrupted run of more favorable
news flow on the Irish economy and sovereign over recent months,
Moody’s provides what might be described as a reality check,”
said Dermot O’Leary, chief economist at Dublin-based Goodbody
Stockbrokers.  Ireland, which sought a three-year bailout at the end of
2010, sold 5 billion euros ($6.4 billion) of bonds on March 13,
its first 10-year debt issue since the international rescue.
Finance Minister Michael Noonan has said the country is on track
to exit its 67.5 billion-euro aid program this year after
returning to debt markets, easing the cost of rescuing former
Anglo Irish Bank Corp. and selling some investments in its
financial system.  Bank Aid  Ireland has injected or pledged a gross 64 billion euros to
its debt-laden banks over the past four years.  The extra yield investors demand to hold 10-year Irish debt
over comparable German bunds widened by 7 basis points from
yesterday to 306 points, as of 8:16 a.m. in Dublin.  Moody’s affirmed its Ba3 rating and negative outlook on
Portugal, which followed Ireland into a bailout in 2011.
Portugal’s economy is weak, and government debt remains “very
high,” and the deficit continues to be large, Moody’s said in a
separate statement.  Cyprus reached an agreement in the early hours of March 25
with the European Union and the International Monetary Fund,
whereby uninsured deposits above 100,000 euros face as much as
40 percent losses at Bank of Cyprus Pcl, the country’s largest
bank. Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl, the second biggest, will be wound
down, hitting uninsured depositors and bondholders. The original
plan, rejected by the Cypriot parliament, imposed a levy on all
deposits to raise 5.8 billion euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
Finbarr Flynn at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  