-- OPEC to Cut Exports on Refinery Maintenance, Oil Movements Says
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-03-28T16:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/opec-to-cut-exports-on-refinery-maintenance-oil-movements-says.html
The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries will trim crude shipments through to the
middle of next month while refiners perform seasonal maintenance
work, according to tanker-tracker Oil Movements.  The group that supplies about 40 percent of the world’s oil
will reduce crude exports by 370,000 barrels a day, or 1.5
percent, to 23.69 million a day in the four weeks to April 13,
the researcher said today in an e-mailed report. The figures
exclude  Angola  and  Ecuador .  “April is definitely the low point of the second
quarter,”  Roy Mason , the company’s founder, said by phone from
Halifax,  England . “The refinery maintenance season peaks in
April and drags on into May. The recovery in refining capacity
and the increase in crude demand it generates doesn’t really
show up in loadings until early May.”  Global refinery output in the second quarter was forecast
at 74.8 million barrels a day, by the  International Energy
Agency  in its month report on March 13. “Asian maintenance will
constrain crude runs through mid-May. Only in June are runs
forecast to rebound in a big way,” the IEA said.  Middle East shipments will decrease by 2 percent to 17.35
million barrels a day in the period, compared with 17.7 million
in the four weeks to March 16, according to Oil Movements. That
figure includes non-OPEC members Oman and Yemen.  Crude on board tankers will average 475.46 million barrels,
up 0.4 percent on the previous period, the data show. Oil
Movements calculates the volumes by tallying tanker bookings.
Its figures exclude crude held on vessels for storage.  OPEC comprises Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Iran, Iraq,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar,  Saudi Arabia , the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. The organization is next scheduled to
meet in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Raj Rajendran at 
 rrajendran4@bloomberg.net  