-- Morgan Stanley’s Porat No Longer Interested in Treasury Post
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   M i c h a e l   M o o r e
-- 2013-03-28T16:59:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/morgan-stanley-s-porat-no-longer-interested-in-treasury-post.html
Ruth Porat, chief financial officer
at  Morgan Stanley (MS) , has informed the White House that she is no
longer interested in serving as deputy Treasury secretary,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  As one of the highest-ranking women on Wall Street, Porat’s
decision was influenced by the improving conditions at Morgan
Stanley and the acrimonious confirmation process of Treasury
Secretary Jack Lew, said the people, who requested anonymity to
discuss personnel matters.  Lew was confirmed for his post 71-26 after facing questions
about his compensation from  New York  University and a bonus
payment he received while working at  Citigroup Inc. (C)  at the time
the bank was receiving federal bailout funds.  Porat was awarded $8.75 million in compensation for 2011,
and $11.5 million for 2010, according to company filings.  The White House declined to comment.  Porat’s decision will force the Obama administration to
restart its search, giving other potential candidates, including
those with financial services backgrounds, an opportunity to
join the Treasury Department. In December, before Porat became
the leading candidate, Blair Effron, a partner and co-founder of
Centerview Partners LLP, and Ralph Schlosstein, chief executive
officer at  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) , had been considered for the
post, said one of the people.  Effron has expressed interest in joining the Obama
administration, according to one of the persons. Effron and
Schlosstein didn’t respond to a request for comment.  Mary Miller , the Treasury undersecretary for domestic
affairs, and Lael Brainard, the undersecretary for international
affairs, may also be considered, the person said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net 
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  