-- Mosaic Beats Profit Estimate on Potash Sales at Top of Range
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-03-28T20:56:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/mosaic-sales-trail-analyst-estimates-as-phosphate-prices-fall.html
Mosaic Co. (MOS) , the largest U.S.
fertilizer producer, reported fiscal third-quarter profit that
beat analysts’ estimates as potash sales came in at the high end
of the company’s forecast because of Asian demand.  Net income  rose to $344.6 million, or 81 cents a share, in
the three months through February, from $273.3 million, or 64
cents, a year earlier, Plymouth, Minnesota-based Mosaic said
today in a statement. Profit, excluding the cost of an antitrust
settlement and other one-time items, was 90 cents a share,
beating the 88-cent average of 17  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales increased 2.3 percent to $2.24 billion,
trailing the $2.3 billion average of 15 estimates.  “It was a solid quarter,” Matthew Korn, a New York-based
analyst at Barclays Plc, said today in a telephone interview.
“These results signal a positive underlying view of global
demand for potash and phosphates.”  Mosaic rose 1.6 percent to $59.61 at the close in  New York .
 The shares  have increased 5.3 percent this year.  Mosaic sold 1.8 million metric tons of potash in the fiscal
third quarter, compared to its January forecast of 1.5 million
to 1.8 million metric tons, according to the statement.  “Following the signing of India and China contracts, which
delivered better than expected demand from these two countries,
we saw improving potash fundamentals and sentiment around the
world,” Mosaic Chief Executive Officer Jim Prokopanko said
today in the statement.  Chinese Agreement  Canpotex Ltd., the offshore marketing arm of Mosaic,  Potash
Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  and  Agrium Inc. (AGU) , said on Dec. 31 that
it would sell 1 million tons of potash to  China  at $70 less a
ton than China’s previous price. The deal works out to about
$400 a ton.  Global shipments of both nutrients will rise to records
this year, buoyed by demand in  Asia , Prokopanko said today in a
telephone interview from company headquarters.  “Based on current agricultural commodity prices,
fertilizer prices are about as affordable to farmers as they’ve
ever been,” Prokopanko said.  In the current fiscal quarter, Mosaic said it expects to
sell 2.3 million to 2.6 million tons of potash, a nutrient that
helps crops withstand dry conditions. A year earlier, the
company sold 2 million tons.  The average potash price will be $350 to $380 a ton in the
fiscal fourth quarter, according to the statement. That compares
with $455 a year earlier.  Mosaic said it sold diammonium phosphate, a type of crop
nutrient, for an average of $496 a metric ton in the fiscal
third quarter, down from $536 a year earlier. In January, the
company forecast its DAP price would fall to $485 to $515 a ton
in the fiscal third quarter.  The company said today it expects phosphate sales in the
current quarter of 2.6 million to 2.9 million tons. That
compares with sales of 2.9 million tons a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Frank at 
 sfrank9@bloomberg.net  