-- Total to Take $1.65 Billion Loss on Canada Oil-Sands Project
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-03-28T10:17:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/total-to-take-1-65-billion-loss-on-canadian-oil-sands-project.html
Total SA (FP) ,  Europe ’s third-biggest
oil company, will book a $1.65 billion loss in the first quarter
on the canceled Voyageur Upgrader project in Canada’s  oil sands 
after selling its stake to  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)   More than $5 billion of investment in Voyageur over the
next five years is “no longer justified from a strategic and
economic point of view,” the Paris-based company said in a
statement. The explorer will sell its 49 percent stake in the
project to venture partner Suncor for $500 million.  Alberta  oil sands are beset by rising labor costs and a
shortage of workers as well as a discount for the price of
Canadian heavy crude as U.S. oil output exceeds expectations.
Suncor yesterday canceled the Voyageur venture after Chief
Executive Officer  Steve Williams  said in December the profit
margin for processing Alberta bitumen was “disappearing.”  Total’s decision to sell its stake “is the right one and
made due to negative market conditions,”  Oswald Clint , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., wrote in a report. It
demonstrates “some level of capital discipline when project
economics are no longer favorable.”  Total’s  shares  were little changed at 37.37 euros at 10:51
a.m. in Paris.  ‘Long-Term Bet’  Total bought stakes in oil-sands developments in 2010 from
Suncor, Canada’s largest oil producer by market value, forming a
“strategic alliance” for the Fort Hills, Joslyn and Voyageur
projects. At the time Jean-Michel Gires, Total’s president of
Canadian exploration and production, said the explorer was
taking a “long-term bet” on oil sands.  “The Fort Hills and Joslyn mining projects are not
impacted by the decision to withdraw from the Voyageur project,
and Total remains totally committed to playing a significant
role in Canada’s future oil sands development,” Yves-Louis Darricarrere, head of upstream, said in today’s statement.  Total is operator of the Joslyn project with a 38.25
percent stake while it owns a 39.2 percent interest in the Fort
Hills project. A final  investment decision  on Fort Hills is
expected around late 2013 while Joslyn is in an “engineering
review phase,” according to today’s statement.  Voyageur would have been the third upgrader at Suncor’s
oil-sands site in Fort McMurray, Alberta. An upgrader converts
tar-like bitumen into a light, synthetic  crude oil .  Total Chief Executive Officer Christophe de Margerie has
pledged to raise production from new fields and explore more
aggressively for reserves to revive output growth. He has also
focused on  selling assets  such as Total’s pipeline network in
southwestern  France  as part of a plan to raise as much as $20
billion.  Total also had to write down the value of U.S. shale assets
for 700 million euros ($894 million) after taxes in the third
quarter because of the drop in natural gas prices.  The net loss of $1.65 billion on the Voyageur project will
be reflected in Total’s first quarter results, it said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  