-- Ouya $99 Game Device Undercuts Bigger Players in Consoles
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-03-28T22:28:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/ouya-99-game-device-undercuts-bigger-players-in-consoles.html
Ouya Inc.  releases a $99 video-game
console today using  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system,
testing whether low prices will cut into the market for  Sony
Corp. (6758) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Nintendo Co. (7974)  machines and titles.  Ouya’s biggest backers get the first devices today at an
unveiling during the Game Developers Conference in San
Francisco. Other investors will get theirs in the mail,
according to the Santa Monica, California-based company. The
player is expected to go on sale to the public in June.  Founder Julie Uhrman is betting the Ouya player will lure
independent developers back to creating games for home use from
tablets and smartphones, an area they flocked to in recent
years. U.S. retail sales of game hardware, software and
accessories fell 22 percent to $13.3 billion last year as
consumers spent less on packaged titles and shifted to digital
downloads and games on mobile devices.  “We hope to have content that appeals to core gamers and
the mass market with exclusive content,” Uhrman, the company’s
chief executive officer, said in an interview.  “The challenge
with Ouya is the business model -- it’s bringing the free-to-
play model to the television and building an ecosystem of gamers
and developers.”  About 55 games will be available with today’s release,
according to Uhrman. The cube-shaped player uses a version of
Android that requires developers to create applications and
games just for the device. Games must be free, offer a free
trial or have free add-ons, the company said.  Android Games  Android games typically have been free, with add-ons such
as new levels costing as much as $20. Packaged games can cost as
much as $60, or more with add-ons. Ouya plans to keep 30 percent
of game sales, with developers getting the rest.  While the initial games aren’t as visually advanced as
major console titles, Uhrman expects consumers to respond to the
lower prices. An Android game can cost as much as $20,000 to
develop, she said. Major console releases from game publishers
run as high as $50 million.  A second Android-based, Kickstarter-funded product, called
GameStick, will be introduced by midyear, according to its
London-based parent, PlayJam Ltd. Last October, the project
secured a $5 million investment from Adobe Ventures, GameStop
Digital Ventures and Endeavour Ventures.  The Ouya will compete against home players including
Nintendo’s new Wii U, which sells for $300 to $350 in the U.S.
Sony plans to release PlayStation 4 later this year. The
company’s current PlayStation 3 sells for about $300, as does
the Xbox 360 from Microsoft.  Fundraising Effort  Nintendo and Sony declined to comment on the Ouya. Through
a spokesman, Microsoft said it welcomed the innovation.  Ouya raised $8.6 million in July through  Kickstarter.com , a
Web-based funding service, becoming one of the site’s biggest
projects. For its look and feel, Ouya hired industrial designer
Yves Behar, whose Fuseproject firm worked on Jawbone’s Jambox
Bluetooth speaker and UP health-monitoring wristband.  The Ouya comes with one controller, and can be played with
as many as four at once, according to the company. It uses
 Nvidia Corp. (NVDA) ’s Tegra processor, which is based on  ARM Holdings
Plc (ARM)  designs.  Ouya also has an open-source media player, allowing the
console to offer features such as Flixster, a video-streaming
service that competitors also provide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  