-- Tower Plan Pits New York Developer Against Old Hollywood
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-03-29T01:59:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/tower-plan-pits-new-york-developer-against-old-hollywood.html
A proposal for Los Angeles towers
as tall as 55 stories near the iconic Capitol Records building,
where stars from  Frank Sinatra  to  Taylor Swift  recorded hits, is
pitting a  New York  developer against defenders of old Hollywood.  Philip Aarons, co-founder of New York-based Millennium
Partners, is proposing a $664 million, two-skyscraper complex
with as many as 492 apartments and condominiums, 200 hotel
rooms, a health club, offices and retail space near the
intersection of Hollywood Boulevard and Vine Street, where  John Lennon  and  Audrey Hepburn  have stars on the Walk of Fame. The
taller of the two towers would be almost twice the height of
Hollywood’s next biggest building, and dwarf the 13-story
Capitol Records property next to the site.  “This project is right for Hollywood because it’s a city
of fantasy and spectacle,” Aarons said in an interview at his
10th-floor office, which has views of the Hollywood sign and
Capitol Records building, a 1956 tower resembling a stack of
vinyl records. “Its history comes from thinking big.”  While Aarons’s plan meets a  Los Angeles  city goal of
increasing density near mass transit hubs -- the project site is
near an existing subway station at Hollywood and Vine -- the
towers would blot out views and aggravate congestion in the
historic district, said Bill Zide, a screenwriter and producer
who serves on the Hollywood Studio District Neighborhood
Council, which voted against supporting the project last month.
The 90 neighborhood councils across Los Angeles advise city
officials on issues such as transportation, crime and
development.  ‘Alien Implant’  “It’s like an alien implant,” Zide said in a telephone
interview. “It’s so disproportionate to everything else.”  The so-called Millennium Hollywood project, which was
approved today by the city’s planning commission, comes as Los
Angeles experiences an apartment and hotel construction boom
following the worst  property crash  since the Great Depression.  Builders obtained  permits  in 2011 and 2012 for 16,042
multifamily units in Los Angeles County, more than three times
the number of single-family permits in the two-year period,
according to the California Homebuilding Foundation, a
Sacramento-based research group. In  downtown Los Angeles ,  Korean
Air Lines Co. (003490)  is planning an 1,100-foot (335-meter) hotel-office
tower that will be the tallest in the western U.S.  Hollywood, six miles (10 kilometers) northwest of downtown,
has more than 2,000 new apartments under construction or set to
begin development in the next two years, said Leron Gubler,
chairman of the Hollywood Chamber of Commerce and a supporter of
the Millennium Hollywood project.  Lennar Project  Those developments include the 1,000-unit Blvd 6200, being
developed by DLJ Real Estate Capital Partners and Clarett West
Development, which broke ground in October a block east of
Hollywood and Vine, and a proposed 76-unit building on Highland
Avenue near Sunset Boulevard that would be homebuilder  Lennar
Corp. (LEN) ’s first apartment project in the West.  “One of the reasons we have so much congestion in Los
Angeles is because it’s a horizontal city, not a vertical
city,” Gubler said in a telephone interview. “If Los Angeles
is ever going to change that paradigm, now is the time to do it
in a few core areas.”  The Millennium Hollywood is the first Los Angeles project
by  Millennium Partners , which has developed $4 billion of real
estate in New York, Miami,  Boston ,  San Francisco  and  Washington 
since 1991. Its  Manhattan  developments include the Park
Millennium and Grand Millennium near  Lincoln Center , and
Millennium Tower Residences in Battery Park. In Boston, it’s
redeveloping the Filene’s department-store site into a mixed-use
tower with 500 residences. In San Francisco, it’s planning a
tower with 215 condos and a new home for the Mexican Museum.  Altering Skyline  “All of our projects altered the skyline,” Aarons said.  Millennium and Argent Ventures LLC bought the Capitol
Records building and neighboring properties for about $50
million in 2006 from EMI Group Plc, which was Capitol’s parent
at the time and was purchased last year by  Universal Music
Group . Capitol Music Group is the tower’s sole tenant.  At 585 feet, the taller of Millennium’s two Hollywood
skyscrapers would overshadow both Capitol Records and the
district’s tallest building, the 20-floor Sunset Vine Tower that
was remodeled in 2010 by CIM Group and is on the market.  “It’s short by Millennium standards,” Aarons said of his
project.  Aarons has been wooing Los Angeles officials and community
groups as he seeks support for the Millennium Hollywood.  Project Architect  He hired William Roschen, a planning-commission member, as
a project architect charged with blending the new and existing
elements of the 4.5-acre (1.8-hectare) site. Roschen, now the
panel’s chairman, said he’s recused himself from commission
decision-making on the Millennium plan and declined to comment
further on the project.  Aarons is chairman of Friends of  Hollywood Central Park  and
donates  office space  to the group, which wants to build a public
park above the Hollywood Freeway between Santa Monica and
Hollywood boulevards. Aarons also was the founding chairman of
the Friends of the  High Line , which supports the elevated park
on Manhattan’s West Side that helped spur a real estate boom in
Chelsea and the Meatpacking District. The High Line’s reliance
on private funding for maintenance and operations is a model for
the Hollywood park, Aarons said.  While the freeway park proposal has won fans -- and will
take years to build -- the Millennium Hollywood, which may begin
construction as soon as next year, faces growing community
opposition. More than 1,000 people signed an online petition
against the project that was started by Hollywood Hills
residents, and only one of the four Hollywood-area neighborhood
councils is supporting it.  Size Restriction  The Hollywood site has a restriction of the total ratio of
square footage to land of 4.5 to 1. The ratio can be increased
to 6 to 1 with city approval, allowing 1.17 million square feet
of floor area. That change was considered today by the planning
commission. Millennium also sought permission to reduce the
number of parking spaces, hold outdoor events and serve alcohol.
Final approval from the city council and mayor is needed as
well.  Tall, narrow towers will allow more street-level space for
cafes, stores and performance space while providing less view
obstruction than short, stout buildings, Aarons said.  Hollywood Sign  “We’re concerned that once they start building stuff this
big, it’s just going to grow,” Bryan Cooper, president of
Hollywood Heritage Inc., a movie-history museum and historic-
preservation group, said in a telephone interview. “People have
been able to see the Hollywood sign and the surrounding
topography since Los Angeles was first developed. While we
support many aspects of this project, we think those two towers
are going to be eyesores.”  Orrin Feldman, an attorney who serves as vice president of
the Hollywood Hills West Neighborhood Council, said Millennium’s
plan lacks specifics, including a thorough study of its impact
on traffic and air pollution.  “This fails the initial junior high school show-and-tell
test,” he said in a telephone interview. “It’s a request for a
free pass without community or city council review. It’s
chutzpah.”  The request for project approval leaves room for
alterations without extensive public review, according to Laurie
Becklund, a Hollywood resident and former Los Angeles Times
reporter.  Budget Crisis  “I’ve come to see it as an outgrowth of a perfect civic
compost: a city  budget crisis , mayoral politics, an understaffed
newspaper stretched too thin to fully scrutinize the project and
New York developers who specialize in ‘public-private
partnerships,’” Becklund, a senior fellow at the University of
Southern California Annenberg Center on Communication Leadership
& Policy, wrote in a Times op-ed piece today.  The jobs and residences at the Millennium would allow more
people in Hollywood to give up their cars for bicycles or public
transit, Aarons said. The project will have a “less-than-
significant impact” on trips added to the Hollywood Freeway,
according to an environmental impact report that Millennium
submitted to the city.  That assumption is disputed by the California Department of
Transportation.  “The conclusion is not based on any credible analysis that
could be found anywhere” in the report, Dianna Watson,
Caltrans’s branch chief for regional planning, wrote in a letter
to the planning commission.  Left Room  The vice president of the Central Hollywood Neighborhood
Council, the only council that supported the project, is Laurie
Goldman, who works as a community-relations consultant for
Millennium. Goldman, also president of Friends of Hollywood
Central Park, said she left the room when her neighborhood
council discussed the project.  The Hollywood Millennium will help attract higher-end
stores to a stretch of Hollywood Boulevard that has too many
tattoo parlors, sex shops and hookah bars, Goldman said.  “I was listening to the Starline tour guide, trying to
hustle people onto the tour, and he said, ‘Welcome to the Walk
of Shame,’” she said in a telephone interview. “Because it’s
like a dead zone there.”  The two candidates in a May 21 runoff for mayor -- Eric Garcetti, a city councilman whose district includes the
Millennium Hollywood site, and City Controller Wendy Greuel --
have said they have concerns about the Millennium.  Hollywood Landscape  “I do not support the project as it is currently
envisioned because the proposed height is out of scale with the
Hollywood landscape and does not have a broad enough level of
support throughout the community,” Garcetti said in a statement
to the planning commission today.  Mayor  Antonio Villaraigosa , whose term ends June 30, favors
the project because it creates public space, as well as housing
and jobs near a transit center, said Peter Sanders, a spokesman.  “By building tall, the developers are going to be able to
open up the ground-floor area for open space -- a rarity in
Hollywood -- while preserving the iconic Capitol Records
building,” Sanders said.  The construction will probably force a halt to recording
work at Capitol Records for months, according to Elliot
Scheiner, a recording engineer and producer who has worked with
Queen, Beck and the  Foo Fighters  in the building’s underground
studios and echo chambers, which he said are the best facilities
of their kind in the U.S.  ‘Affect Everything’  “I have to believe it’s going to affect everything they do
at Capitol,” Scheiner said in a telephone interview from his
home in Redding,  Connecticut . “History’s been made in those
studios, and history should continue to be made there.”  Capitol Music Group is working with Millennium “to assure
that the studios and the echo chambers will not be affected by
the development,” Maureen Schultz, a Capitol senior vice
president, said in an e-mail.  Aarons said he expects people to appreciate the project
after it’s finished.  “I understand people’s nervousness,” he said. “Change is
never easy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  