-- Paralympian Oscar Pistorius Appeals Bail Terms to Travel
-- B y   T s h e p i s o   M o k h e m a   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2013-03-28T09:20:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/paralympian-oscar-pistorius-appeals-bail-terms-to-travel.html
South African paralympian  Oscar Pistorius , charged with the murder of his girlfriend, appealed
his bail conditions because he wants to travel to allow him to
earn an income, his lawyer Barry Roux said.  “Why would he go to a new country to hide?” Roux said in
the Pretoria High Court today. “We did not agree to conditions
of bail, that is when we decided to use our rights to appeal.”  Pistorius, 26, was released on 1 million rand ($108,033)
bail on Feb. 22 after a four-day hearing. Prosecutors accuse him
of deliberately shooting Reeva Steenkamp, 29, on Feb. 14,
Valentine’s Day, at his Pretoria home. The athlete says that he
accidentally shot her thinking there was a burglar in his house.
The judge will announce his decision at 12:30 p.m. local time.  The athlete, known as  Blade Runner  because of his
prosthetic running blades, was the first amputee runner to
compete at an  Olympic Games , running at the London event last
year. He was included in Time magazine’s list of the world’s 100
most-influential people. Pistorius, who won six Paralympic gold
medals, was born without fibulas and had both legs amputated
below the knee at 11 months old.  Pistorius has no immediate travel plans but wants the
option to do so, according to Roux.  The appeal hearing should be argued in the magistrate’s
court where the bail conditions were set, prosecutor Gerrie Nel
said today. Pistorius has already handed over his passport, Roux
also asked that the restriction on drinking alcohol be lifted.  “How can he appeal what he agreed on,” Nel said. “I fail
to understand why someone who agreed to conditions, now, two
weeks later, wants to appeal.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tshepiso Mokhema in Pretoria at 
 tmokhema@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  