-- Covington, Patton Boggs, Gibson, Nixon: Business of Law
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-03-28T11:48:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/patton-boggs-gibson-susman-godfrey-business-of-law.html
After four years leading U.S.
government efforts to prosecute financial crime, Lanny Breuer is
returning to his former law firm.  Breuer, who this month left his job as head of the Justice
Department’s criminal division, will become the vice chairman of
Covington & Burling LLP.  His return to private practice ends a term in which the
division secured some of the largest criminal settlements in the
department’s history, even as it faced criticism for not
bringing cases against Wall Street executives over the 2008
financial crisis.  The 54-year-old Breuer rejoins Covington’s Washington
office in a newly created role. As vice chairman, he said he
plans to spearhead the development of a large practice covering
white-collar defense, civil-litigation and crisis-management.  “I now have such an intuitive and nuanced sense of how the
Justice Department, how the government, makes important
decisions,” Breuer said in an interview yesterday at the firm’s
Washington office. “I believe I can help companies and
individuals act appropriately.”  Breuer has a two-year “cooling off” period where he isn’t
allowed to set foot in the Justice Department or work on issues
he oversaw while leading the criminal division. He said he’s
allowed to advise clients on new matters and will have “an
ethics officer on speed-dial” while navigating his return to
Covington, the only place he’s worked in private practice.  Breuer’s list of clients before his time at the Justice
Department included  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) , Koch Industries Inc.,
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,
according to the disclosure forms he filed with the government
ethics office in 2009.  Former Major League Baseball star Roger Clemens and former
Citigroup Inc. Chief Executive Office Charles Prince are also
among his previous clients, according to the disclosures.  While at the Justice Department, Breuer’s division oversaw
the largest criminal resolution in U.S. history: the $4 billion
settlement with BP Plc over the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
Its investigation into the rigging of interest rates continues
after settlements with two major banks, criminal charges against
two traders and a guilty plea from a bank subsidiary.  Still, Breuer’s critics said there were shortcomings of his
tenure, including an inability to pin cases on high-level Wall
Street executives and the refusal to indict some financial
institutions in connection with the 2008 crisis.  Throughout his tenure, Breuer maintained that had there
been enough evidence to make a case for prosecuting top
financial industry executives, his division or U.S. Attorneys
offices around the country would have brought charges.  For more, click here.  Law Firms  Patton Boggs Names Litigator as Head of New York Office  Patton Boggs LLP appointed commercial litigator John M. Nonna as managing partner of the firm’s New York office.  Nonna currently co-heads the Patton Boggs Insurance and
Reinsurance Dispute Resolution practice group. He will have
primary management oversight of the New York office, Patton
Boggs said in a statement.  Nonna joined Patton Boggs in April 2012 from the New York
office of Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP along with three attorneys from
his practice group.  The addition of Nonna and his colleagues was one in a
series of strategic moves by Patton Boggs to increase the firm’s
bench strength, legal service offerings, and overall presence in
the New York market, the firm said.  “John Nonna is an ideal choice to manage the growth and
success of our New York office,” said Edward J. Newberry,
managing partner of Patton Boggs. “In less than a year, he has
acquired an understanding of Patton Boggs that complements his
strong existing knowledge of the New York market for legal
services. We are extremely pleased that he has accepted this
appointment, and we will continue to support him and the entire
New York-based team as he undertakes it.”  Business development for existing New York practices is
Nonna’s top priority, the firm said. Practices targeted for
growth include corporate finance, commercial and securities
litigation, insurance and reinsurance dispute resolution, real
estate investment and development, white-collar and government
investigations.  Nonna is a member of the board of directors and a regional
vice chairman of the Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights Under
Law, and he heads the New York State Bar Association Committee
on Federal Legislative Priorities. He has also served as the
mayor of Pleasantville, New York, a suburb of New York City.  News  Comcast Backed by High Court on Philadelphia Antitrust Suit  Comcast (CMCSA)  Corp., the nation’s largest cable-television
company, doesn’t have to defend against an $875 million
antitrust lawsuit on behalf of as many as 2 million
Philadelphia-area customers, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled.  The justices, voting 5-4 to reverse a lower court, said the
case against Comcast was too unwieldy to proceed as a single
class-action lawsuit.  The Philadelphia-based company was accused of monopolizing
its hometown market. The suing customers said Comcast swapped
territories and subscribers with competitors to ensure it could
control the market and charge higher prices. Comcast has denied
the allegations.  The high court, in an opinion by Justice Antonin Scalia,
said the customers didn’t meet requirements for outlining a
common method that could be used to determine monetary damages
for each of the thousands of individual parties to the lawsuit.  Proof about a common methodology for measuring damages is
needed before the case can proceed as a class-action suit
covering many individual claims, the court said. The customers
fell short when they produced a general theory about alleged
overcharges from lack of competition without more detailed
information about the impact of the specific antitrust
allegation in the lawsuit, the court ruled.  “We are pleased that the Supreme Court found that a class
should not have been certified in this case,” Jenni Moyer, a
Comcast spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Scalia’s majority opinion was joined by Chief Justice John Roberts and Justices Anthony Kennedy, Clarence Thomas and Samuel Alito.  Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Stephen Breyer, Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan dissented.  Miguel Estrada a partner at Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP,
argued the case for Comcast. He said in an e-mail statement that
“We are pleased that the Supreme Court has agreed with Comcast
that this case should never have been certified as a class
action.”  Estrada added that “the court’s decision requires proof
that damages may be established on a class wide basis and in a
manner that is tied to the plaintiff’s liability theory. This
will help ensure that only those cases truly suited for
collective adjudication will be certified as class actions.”  Barry Barnett, a partner at Susman Godfrey LLP, argued for
the consumers seeking class status. He said in an e-mail that
“We respectfully disagree with the majority’s ruling. We look
forward to satisfying the court’s narrow methodological concerns
on remand to the trial court and to trying the case on the
merits as soon as practicable.”  The case is Comcast v. Behrend, 11-864.  Focus Media Suit Over Carlyle Buyout Is Dropped by Pension  An investor in  Focus Media Holding Ltd. (FMCN)  dropped a lawsuit
seeking to block the Shanghai-based advertising company’s $3.7
billion buyout by  Carlyle Group LP. (CG)   Iron Workers Mid-South Pension Fund ended the suit without
prejudice, meaning it can be refiled, according to a filing
yesterday in federal court in San Francisco. The pension fund
didn’t say why the complaint was dropped. A hearing on Focus
Media’s request to dismiss the case had been set for April 1.  The pension fund alleged that Focus Media’s proxy statement
omitted or misrepresented information about an alleged unfair
sales process that locked out other buyers and undervalued the
company in violation of the 1934 Securities Exchange Act.  Focus Media said the law’s disclosure requirements don’t
apply to foreign private issuers and the lawsuit should be
dismissed, according to a court filing. The company is a Cayman
Islands corporation with executive offices in Hong Kong and
operations in  China . Its American depositary shares trade on the
Nasdaq Stock Market.  “In this instance, foreign issuers are able to solicit the
investment of United States residents through our stock
exchanges and yet not be subject to the same disclosure
requirements as other U.S. publicly traded companies,” Steve
Oddo, a partner at Robbins Arroyo LLP representing the pension
fund, said in an e-mail. “The company is able to evade
regulations that govern communications with shareholders, and
shareholders are left unprotected.”  Focus Media agreed Dec. 19 to be acquired by a group of
investors led by Carlyle in China’s biggest leveraged buyout.
The company operates networks of advertising display panels in
office buildings, supermarkets and other venues in China, and
began trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market in 2005. The
transaction is expected to be completed in the second quarter,
Focus Media said in December.  The pension fund alleged that Focus Media’s board didn’t
conduct a full and fair sale process to get the best value for
shareholders.  The case is Iron Workers Mid-South Pension Fund v. Focus
Media Holding Limited, 13-cv-00827, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  Blackstone’s Cohen Told to Answer Queries in McCourt Divorce  A  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  senior managing director was ordered
to answer written questions in litigation over a divorce
settlement between former Los Angeles Dodgers owner Frank McCourt and his ex-wife Jamie McCourt.  Jamie McCourt last week filed a third petition in New York
State Supreme Court in Manhattan seeking an order requiring
Blackstone Advisory Partners LP and the executive, Peter Cohen,
to sit for depositions in the case. Justice Jeffrey K. Oing in
Manhattan yesterday ordered Cohen to respond to no more than 25
written inquiries by March 29.  Jamie McCourt in September filed a request in California
state court in Los Angeles claiming her $131 million divorce
settlement, reached about eight months earlier, was based on
fraud and should be set aside.  Cohen told Forbes Magazine that the $2.15 billion purchase
price for the Dodgers wasn’t “more than he anticipated on day
one,” according to the petition.  The case is In the matter of the application of Jamie
McCourt, 651046/2013, New York State Supreme Court ( Manhattan .)  For more, click here.  Moves  Health-Care Lawyers Join Nixon Peabody in Albany Office  Health-care attorneys Philip Rosenberg and Laurie Cohen
joined Nixon Peabody LLP as partners in the  Albany , New York,
office. Both lawyers previously worked at Wilson Elser Moskowitz
Edelman & Dicker LLP.  Rosenberg and Cohen will work with Nixon Peabody partner
Peter Millock, a former general counsel at the New York State
Department of Health, and counsel Barbara Asheld, a former house
counsel at the Department of Health.  “New York state’s health-care regulatory environment is
complex and rapidly changing. Navigating the environment
requires not only substantive expertise of the legal framework
governing the industry, but a deep understanding of the
government agencies that regulate the industry,” Michele A. Masucci, partner and leader of Nixon Peabody’s health services
practice, said in a statement.  Rosenberg represents health-care providers in regulatory,
transactional and litigation matters. Cohen represents health-
care providers in corporate and regulatory matters.  Nixon Peabody has approximately 700 attorneys worldwide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  