-- Penguins Acquire 525 Goal-Scorer Jarome Iginla From NHL’s Flames
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-03-28T12:10:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/penguins-acquire-525-goal-scorer-jarome-iginla-from-nhl-s-flames.html
The Pittsburgh Penguins have
acquired All-Star wing Jarome Iginla, who has twice led the
National Hockey League in goals-scored while spending his first
16 seasons with the Calgary Flames.  The Penguins sent their 2013 first-round draft pick to
Calgary along with wingers Ben Hanowski and Kenny Agostino for
Iginla, whose 525 career NHL goals are the  third-most  among
active players behind Jaromir Jagr and Teemu Selanne.  Iginla, 35, joins a Penguins team that has an NHL-best 26
wins this season and sits atop the Eastern Conference’s Atlantic
Division with 52 points. Pittsburgh has won 13 games in a row
and within the past week has bolstered its roster by adding
forward Brenden Morrow from the Dallas Stars and defenseman
Douglas Murray from the San Jose Sharks.  “He brings a lot of different elements: the ability to
play with good players, play in tough areas, good leadership,”
Penguins General Manager Ray Shero said of Iginla on the  team’s
website . “He wants to win. From the people I’ve talked to that
have played with him talk about what a great teammate and person
he is. My expectation is that he’ll be a really good fit in
terms of the team and the guys that we have.”  Iginla, who was the Flames’ captain, had nine goals and 13
assists in 31 games for Calgary this season. The seven-time All-
Star has scored more than 30 goals in each of the past 11
seasons, including a career-high 52 goals in 2001-02.  “He said he would help any way he could, didn’t care about
role or who he was playing with,” Shero said. “He’ll accept
any role that’s asked of him by coaches or teammates.”  The Penguins’ acquisition of Iginla comes ahead of the
NHL’s April 3 trade deadline. The Flames have a 13-15-4 record
and the second-fewest points in the Western Conference.  “The first-round pick was very important to them,” Shero
said of the Flames. “They ended up with two good college
prospects. That’s the price of Jarome Iginla. That’s what you
have to do. That’s what we did.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  