-- Pentagon to Cut $41 Billion After Getting More Funding
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-03-29T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/pentagon-must-cut-41-billion-not-46-billion-hagel-says.html
The Pentagon must cut about $41
billion this fiscal year, not the $46 billion anticipated before
Congress passed a stopgap spending bill providing some relief
from automatic reductions, Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said.  Hagel also confirmed yesterday at a Pentagon news
conference that furloughs for the Defense Department’s civilian
workers will be reduced to 14 days from the 22 days originally
planned.  The unpaid leave, which had been slated to begin next month
for as many as 750,000 workers, won’t start until June,
according to a Pentagon official who briefed reporters yesterday
and asked to not be named to discuss details that haven’t been
announced. Government analysts are still assessing how many
workers will be affected.  “We are going to be able to reduce and delay these
furloughs, but not eliminate furloughs,” Hagel said. “It’s
good news from where we were two weeks ago.”  The reduction in the number of days means the Pentagon will
save about $2.5 billion through furloughs instead of $4 billion,
he said.  President  Barack Obama  signed legislation on March 26 to
fund the federal government through the fiscal year that ends
Sept. 30. Congress incorporated a defense appropriations measure
that gave the Pentagon more flexibility in applying the across-
the-board cuts called sequestration.  Penalty Spared  The measure spared the Pentagon from as much as $6 billion
in “penalty” cuts because the defense measure came in under
caps set by previous legislation, according to a second Pentagon
official who briefed reporters and also asked to not be
identified in discussing the budget.  The spending measure signed by Obama includes $10 billion
more for operations and maintenance accounts than allocated in
the fiscal 2012 “continuing resolution” the Pentagon would
have operated under if the new measure hadn’t passed.  Those funds will still fall short by at least $22 billion
this year, according to Hagel. He said that will require cutting
back “sharply” on operating support for military bases and
reducing training for units that aren’t deployed.  At the same time, war costs have risen by about $7 billion
more than anticipated, partly because of the expense of bringing
troops and equipment home from  Afghanistan , he said.  “We don’t yet have a satisfactory solution to that
shortfall, and we’re doing everything we can to stretch our
readiness out,” said Army General Martin Dempsey, chairman of
the Joint Chiefs of Staff, who joined Hagel at yesterday’s press
conference.  Alternative Package  Dempsey said the Pentagon is still analyzing the budget
cuts that will be required and he expects to have a better
understanding in about two weeks of what must be done to
maintain readiness.  In one sign that pressures are easing, the Navy said
yesterday that it will begin a refueling and overhaul of the
aircraft carrier USS Abraham Lincoln after a six-week delay
caused by budget uncertainty.  The work, which includes refueling the nuclear reactors and
upgrading ship systems, is valued at more than $3 billion and
will be conducted by  Huntington Ingalls Industries Inc. (HII) , the
only U.S. builder of aircraft carriers, in  Newport News ,
Virginia.  The Pentagon will have to slice as much as $500 billion
from planned spending over the next nine years unless Congress
and Obama agree on an alternative deficit-reduction package.  The government spending legislation is Public Law No.
113-6.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  