-- Pentagon Improves Holding Down Weapons Costs, Auditor Finds
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-03-28T17:08:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/pentagon-improves-in-holding-down-weapons-costs-auditor-finds.html
Cost growth in the Pentagon’s
portfolio of major weapons has stabilized in the last year as
many programs show signs of increased efficiency, the U.S.
Government Accountability Office said today.  The congressional audit agency’s annual report today on the
Pentagon’s $1.6 trillion weapons portfolio struck a more
optimistic note than in past years on progress in reducing costs.  Eight of the Pentagon’s top 10 most costly programs
reported net decreases totaling $4.9 billion, according to the
report. An exception was the most expensive weapon,  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 fighter, which increased by $101 million
from last year.  Of the 84 programs in the portfolio that provided detailed
cost data, 52 “expected to deliver capabilities at lower unit
costs than they were projecting a year ago, while the remaining
32 experienced unit cost increases,” according to the GAO, the
investigative arm of Congress.  The reductions were about 3.4 percent from a year ago on
average, while the increases averaged 4.3 percent, the GAO
found.  The GAO said some of the improvement stems from a 2009
weapons acquisitions law as well as the Pentagon’s “Better
Buying Power” initiative. Both promoted increased use of
independent cost analysis.  The new appraisal contrasts with criticism such as that in
a March 2009 report, when the agency said cost growth for the
top 96 weapons programs remained “staggering” even as it
slowed.  Spending Cuts  Today’s report may provide encouragement for defense
contractors making their case for continued funding as the
 Department of Defense  faces spending cuts of as much as $500
billion over nine years under the deficit-reduction process
known as sequestration.  “While improvements over the past year are promising, DoD
must continue to be committed to following sound” acquisition
principles “and holding programs accountable for meeting cost
and schedule goals for this progress to be sustained,” the GAO
said.  The report also said the Pentagon “continues to accept the
inherent risks in allowing programs to begin production before
completing developmental testing.”  Carrier’s Cost  The cost of the Navy’s CVN-78 Gerald R. Ford class aircraft
carrier, built by  Huntington Ingalls Industries Inc., (HII)  increased
by $533 million, according to the GAO.  The DDG-51 destroyer program built by Huntington Ingalls
and  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  saw a cost reduction of $1.6 billion,
while the contractors’ Virginia-class submarine program dropped
$1.4 billion in overall costs, according to GAO.  The seaframe cost of the Littoral Combat Ships built by
Lockheed Martin and  Austal Ltd. (ASB)  has decreased $1.3 billion, GAO
said.  “Interestingly, none of the decreases” in costs “were
due to quantity reductions,” said GAO. “In several cases --
notably ship programs -- the cost decreases were due to changes
in program estimating assumptions.”  The report found that the U.S. has “incurred significant
costs” associated with two failures in 2010 of the latest-model
missile defense warhead from  Raytheon Co. (RTN)   The costs in connection with the failed tests, extensive
analysis and ground and flight testings have increased to more
than $1.2 billion from an initial estimate of $236 million.
 Bloomberg News  reported the estimated increase in April 2012.  “Further cost growth is possible if the remaining
corrections, including flight tests, lead to any discoveries,”
the GAO said.  The warhead must be verified as corrected before the
Pentagon proceeds with spending an additional $1 billion to buy
14 new  Orbital Sciences Corp. (ORB)  interceptors to bolster West Coast
missile defenses by 2017. The Pentagon this month announced the
plan to add more interceptors in  Alaska .  For Related News and Information:
Cost Overruns Plague One-Third of Biggest Pentagon Programs  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  