-- Pfizer Loses Bid to Have Celebrex Investor Suits Tossed
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-03-29T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/pfizer-loses-bid-to-have-celebrex-investor-suits-tossed.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s biggest
drugmaker, lost a court bid to dismiss investors’ claims that
company executives misled them about the prospects for arthritis
drugs  Celebrex  and  Bextra .  U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain in New York
concluded yesterday that shareholders can proceed with claims
that Pfizer officials made misleading statements about the
safety of Celebrex and Bextra. Stockholders allege Pfizer
executives deliberately hid or misrepresented the results of
studies that suggested the drugs may have adverse cardiovascular
effects.  The judge said “factual issues” precluded her from
throwing out investors’ claims “on the issue of whether there
were material misstatements or omissions.” She threw out
 shareholders ’ claims on other issues.  The decision clears the way for the shareholder suits,
which have been combined into a class-action case, to go to
trial. Celebrex, with almost $2.5 billion in annual sales, is
one of Pfizer’s best-selling medicines. Pfizer officials pulled
Bextra off the market in 2005 after it was linked to an
increased risk of heart attacks and a rare skin condition.  Chris Loder, a spokesman for New York-based Pfizer, said
the drugmaker’s lawyers are ready to defend against the
investors’ claims in court.  ‘Presenting the Case’  “We appreciate the court’s decision narrowing the claims
and look forward to presenting our case at trial,” Loder said
yesterday in a telephone interview.  Celebrex was linked to heart risks at high doses in
research released in November 2004, sending shares down as much
as 7.6 percent. Bextra was among the drugs that a U.S. Food and
Drug Administration reviewer identified as unsafe that same
month.  In 2009, Pfizer agreed to pay $2.3 billion to settle a U.S.
government probe into claims the drugmaker improperly marketed
Bextra and other drugs. As part of the deal, Pfizer agreed to
pay a $1.3 billion criminal penalty over its Bextra marketing
and $1 billion in civil fines in connection with improper sales
of other medicines.  Lawyers for Pfizer investors said they are still collecting
evidence on their claims that company officials duped
stockholders about the drugs’ safety profiles in their public
statements.  ‘Very Pleased’  “We are very pleased the judge has upheld the vast bulk of
our claims and we look forward to trying the case on behalf of
the class,”  Jay Eisenhofer , a partner in Wilmington, Delaware-
based Grant & Eisenhofer, said in an e-mailed statement.  Swain said investors could proceed with allegations that
senior Pfizer executives knew in March 2004 that researchers
found the drugs posed an increased heart-attack risk in some
patients and didn’t disclose the study results for seven months.  Shareholders contend the executives were improperly touting
Celebrex and Bextra as safer than competing drugs during that
period and those statements artificially inflated the company’s
stock price..  She barred claims against individual Pfizer officials based
on some statements about the drug’s safety profile made to news
outlets in  Canada  and the U.S. in 2004.  The investor cases are In Re Pfizer Inc Securities
Litigation, 04-cv-09866, 05-MD-1688, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  