-- Philippine Officials Brace for Inflows as Investment Grade Won
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2013-03-28T05:53:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/philippine-officials-brace-for-inflows-as-investment-grade-won.html
Philippine officials are preparing
to counter the impact of capital inflows after the nation won
its first investment-grade debt rating.  The central bank will probably unveil next quarter a new
set of measures that will give investors easier access to
foreign currencies and encourage outflows, Governor Amando Tetangco said in Bloomberg Television interview with  Rishaad Salamat . The rules may be ready as early as April, he said. The
monetary authority is also considering banning overseas funds in
its reverse repurchase facility, Tetangco said.  “We have the traditional tools such as the interest-rate
policy, and on the other hand we have macrprudential tools which
we have used recently in trying to minimize the adverse impact
of capital inflows on domestic liquidity and therefore
inflation,” Tetangco said. “We would continue to use these
tools to make sure that we remain faithful to the inflation
target and that we also maintain financial stability.”  The  Philippines Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  surged to a record and
the peso climbed the most since September after  Fitch Ratings 
raised its assessment of the nation’s long-term foreign-
currency-denominated debt to BBB- from BB+ yesterday. Foreign
portfolio inflows into the $225 billion economy climbed to $2.1
billion in February, about 40 percent higher from a year earlier,
after surging to a 10-year high in 2012.  Asset Bubbles  The upgrade may boost capital inflows further and
complicate the job of policy makers as they try to rein in an
appreciating peso and curb asset bubbles. At the same time,
President  Benigno Aquino  is seeking more than $17 billion of
infrastructure investments to spur growth to as much as 7
percent this year.  The  Philippines  is still rated one step below investment
grade at Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s . The
country’s financial markets are shut today and tomorrow for the
Easter holiday.  Gains will probably extend when markets resume trading on
April 1, Tetangco told ABS-CBN News Channel yesterday. Funds
that require investment-grade assets can now put money in the
Philippines, broadening the investor base, he said.  After the Fitch upgrade, S&P and Moody’s should follow suit,
which will “add fuel to the fire of confidence,”  Mark Mobius ,
the head of Templeton  Emerging Markets  Group, said in an
interview in Singapore today. He said he likes Philippine
telecommunication companies, property, consumer and consumer
banking stocks.  All Tools  “On the part of the central bank, they’re looking at all
the tools in their repertoire to make sure that the peso will
remain within a reasonable band among competitor currencies,”
Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima said in a separate Bloomberg
Television interview with  Susan Li  today.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas had earlier capped lenders’
currency forward positions, banned overseas funds from special
deposit accounts and expanded monitoring of banks’ real-estate
exposure. It has cut the rate on special deposit accounts twice
this year and signaled further reductions while holding its
 benchmark rate  at a record-low 3.5 percent.  “We have not maxed out our traditional tools,” Tetangco
said in an e-mail yesterday. “We also still have macro
prudential tools that can be lined up.”  Consumer prices  may rise 2.8 percent to 3.7 percent this
month, compared with 3.4 percent in February, Tetangco said this
week. He forecast faster economic growth in 2013 amid inflation
that will stay within a 3 percent-to-5 percent target, supported
by low  interest rates . The Philippine economy expanded 6.6
percent in 2012.  Directing Flows  “The major economies of the world are flooding the world
capital markets with liquidity,” Purisima said. “Our challenge
now is to make sure we direct this to the more productive areas.
We are trying to direct it to our infrastructure program.”  The upgrade improves the Philippines’ access to low-cost
funds that it can use to expand economic stimulus, social
services and defense, President Aquino said yesterday. Borrowing
costs of companies will also tend to drop, enabling them to
expand and generate more jobs, he said.  “One of the key assumptions that we do have underpinning
this rating is that the Aquino administration will persist with
its current policy agenda, which is focusing on good
governance,” Philip McNicholas, director of Asia-Pacific
Sovereigns at Fitch, told Bloomberg Television’s Li and David Ingles today.  “We will continue to focus on making sure we have fiscal
space and that infrastructure improves as well as the policies
continue to open up so that more and more businesses can be
invited to the country,” Purisima said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in  Singapore  at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  