-- Pinnacle Advances as IPO Prices at Top End of Range
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2013-03-28T20:38:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/pinnacle-advances-after-ipo-prices-at-top-end-of-proposed-range.html
Pinnacle Foods Inc. (PF) , the Blackstone
Group LP-owned maker of Hungry-Man dinners and Duncan Hines cake
mixes, jumped in New York after raising $580 million in its
initial public offering, which priced at the top end of the
proposed range.  The stock rose 11 percent to $22.21 at the close. The
Parsippany, New Jersey-based company yesterday sold 29 million
shares, equivalent to a 26 percent stake, for $20 each, after
offering them for $18 to $20. The shares are listed on the New
York Stock Exchange under the symbol PF.  Pinnacle, led by Chief Executive Officer Robert Gamgort,
proceeded with its IPO after delaying it last year because of
slumping consumer sentiment, people familiar with the situation
said at the time. Blackstone bought Pinnacle for $2.2 billion
about six years ago, and combined the company with Birds Eye
Foods Inc. in a $1.3 billion acquisition in 2009.  “The  food industry  since the recession has been challenged
on the top line because of the pressure on the consumer,”
Gamgort said in an interview today with Bloomberg Television.
Pinnacle is “a business that can build great value in a low-
growth environment.”  Pinnacle generated about $2.5 billion in sales last year.
At the IPO price, the company has a market value of about $2.26
billion.  The company’s first priority for excess cash is to protect
its dividend, Gamgort said. Pinnacle also is open to
acquisitions and has options for funding a deal, he said,
without specifying potential targets.  Blackstone didn’t plan to offer shares in the sale,
regulatory filings show. Barclays Plc and Bank of America Corp.
led the IPO.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  