-- Plane-Production Jump Buoys Apollo Fund for Scrapped Jets
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2013-03-28T00:00:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/plane-production-jump-buoys-apollo-fund-for-scrapped-jets.html
Record production rates at  Boeing
Co. (BA)  and Airbus SAS have spurred investor interest in valuable
aerospace parts that are becoming increasingly available as
less-efficient jets are retired years earlier than previously.  Apollo Aviation Group last month raised $595 million for
its Sciens Aviation Special Opportunities Investment Fund II,
more than double the size of the initial SASOF pool in 2010, as
investors bet that returns from scrapping planes will jump.  Boeing and Airbus increased deliveries 18 percent to a
1,189 planes in 2012, with output set to gain further as the
U.S. company ramps up 787 Dreamliner production and its European
rival introduces the A350 wide-body. David Treitel, Apollo’s
managing director, said that’s causing planes to be scrapped
after 15 to 20 years, once considered midlife, leading to a
surge in availability of recyclable parts for current models.  “We are disassembling aircraft at younger ages than
before,” Treitel said from Apollo’s Miami office, citing the
recent break up of its first  Airbus (EAD)  A321 and second Boeing 747-
400. “It’s not a huge number, but it doesn’t need to be.”  Apollo, jointly owned by principals William Hoffman and
Robert Korn and an affiliate of Sciens Capital Management LLC,
buys planes that have already been grounded or are still flying
under lease, retiring them when the operating agreement ends.  Engines Blades  The company arranges for the planes to be scrapped, then
sells the pieces to parts distributors. Life-limited components
in engines, such as fan blades that are required to be replaced
after a certain amount of use, are among the most attractive
items. The earlier fund ended up buying more than $400 million
of used jets, partly using re-invested proceeds.  More retirements are happening now because Boeing and
Airbus sustained production through the global recession as
airlines clamored for fuel-efficient models following a surge in
the price of crude oil, Treitel said. That’s led to an imbalance
between demand and capacity, pushing carriers to retire older
planes that are still being made and have valuable parts.  “We’ve been able to buy, dismantle and sell parts for
numerous in-production models,” he said. “The desire to save
money on maintenance by reducing the cost of materials is
sufficiently great.”  Apollo, which also has offices in London, Dublin and
 Singapore , is the most active investor in the area, though  hedge
funds  and private equity groups with aerospace expertise are
also engaged, Treitel said.  Returns from the initial SASOF fund are still being paid to
investors after distributions began in 2012, he said, declining
to give a figure. Apollo began managing third-party investor
capital in 2004, buying engines for its own account before that.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  