-- Zloty Gains Second Day as Cyprus Averts Panic Bank Withdrawals
-- B y   M a c i e j   O n o s z k o
-- 2013-03-28T16:55:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/poland-s-zloty-heads-for-lowest-in-week-as-cyprus-opens-banks.html
The zloty gained for a second day,
erasing earlier declines, as the reopening of banks in Cyprus
eased concern that debt crisis would worsen in the euro area,
the consumer of more than half of  Poland ’s exports.  Poland’s currency traded 0.1 percent stronger at 4.1768 per
euro as of 5:46 p.m. in Warsaw, after depreciating as much as
0.3 percent. The zloty is down 2.3 percent this year, the worst
quarterly performance since the three months through September
2011.  Cyprus’s banks opened for the first time in almost two
weeks at midday local time today, with new rules curbing access
to cash preventing an initial panic to withdraw deposits. The
euro area accounted for 53 percent of Polish exports in January,
the Statistics Office in Warsaw said on March 13.  Poland’s Finance Ministry plans to offer from 25 billion
zloty ($7.7 billion) to 35 billion zloty in bonds in the second
quarter to secure as much as around 80 percent of this year’s
borrowing needs, Piotr Marczak, the head of the  Finance
Ministry ’s public debt department, said in an e-mailed statement
today.  The size of the offer is “just right” and the ministry is
“wisely making use” of low yield levels to cover as much
borrowing needs as possible early this year, Pawel Radwanski, a
fixed-income analyst at Raiffeisen Polbank SA, said by phone.  The  yield  on Poland’s 10-year bonds rose four basis points,
or 0.04 percentage point, to 3.93 percent, increasing for a
second day.  Rate Cuts  There is still room to cut  interest rates , Monetary Policy
Council member Anna Zielinska-Glebocka said late yesterday.
Poland’s central bank signaled this month a pause in its easing
cycle after cutting interest rates by 150 basis points since
November to a record 3.25 percent.  Seven policy makers voted for and two against cutting rates
by 25 basis points at a rate council meeting on Feb. 6, PAP
newswire said today, citing a voting record published by the
government’s Judicial and Economic Monitor.  Poland’s budget situation isn’t critical and the budget’s
performance was “better than expected” in March, Finance
Minister  Jacek Rostowski  said in an interview with radio RMF FM
today. The deficit reached 21.7 billion zloty ($6.6 billion), or
61 percent of the annual limit, at the end of February, the
Finance Ministry said on March 15.  The budget will be boosted with 5.3 billion zloty from the
central bank’s 2012 net income, PAP reported yesterday, citing a
person with knowledge of the matter who asked not to be
identified.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Onoszko in Warsaw at 
 monoszko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  