-- Putin Orders Major Unplanned Military Exercises in Black Sea
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-03-28T11:36:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/putin-orders-major-unplanned-military-exercises-in-black-sea.html
Russian President  Vladimir Putin 
 ordered  large-scale unplanned exercises in the  Black Sea region 
involving 36 warships and close to 7,000 personnel.  Putin issued the order today at 4 a.m. Moscow time on his
way back from Durban, South Africa, where he attended a summit
of the BRICS emerging-market nations, the president’s spokesman,
 Dmitry Peskov , said on a conference call.  No advance international notification is required for
exercises with less than 7,000 personnel, according to Peskov.
The maneuvers, which will also involve  air force , paratroopers,
marines and intelligence units, are “in accordance with
international laws,” he said.  Russia has used its Black Sea Fleet, based in the Ukrainian
port of Sevastopol, to deploy warships near the shores of Syria,
its Soviet-era ally where it maintains a naval resupply base at
the Mediterranean port of Tartus. Syria’s President Bashar al- Assad is battling an insurgency in its third year.  Russia plans to form a permanently deployed naval squadron
in the Mediterranean from 2015, which will be created with
warships drawn from the  Black Sea  Fleet, Interfax reported in
February, citing an unidentified military official.  The force will be modeled after the Soviet Union’s
permanently forward-deployed Mediterranean squadron, according
to Interfax. The ships will be used to react to regional
conflicts and help fend off threats from the area to Russia’s
national security, the Moscow-based news service said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Sochi, Russia at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  