-- REITs Trigger Fed Warning as Kain Tops $100 Billion
-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 2013-03-28T20:25:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/reits-trigger-fed-warning-as-kain-tops-100-billion.html
Gary Kain spent 20 years at  Freddie
Mac  managing as much as $800 billion of bonds before the U.S.
took over the company. Since 2009, he’s used his knowledge of
the home-loan market to help turn  American Capital Agency Corp. (AGNC) 
into the fastest growing mortgage debt investor.  American Capital ’s assets grew to $100.5 billion at the end
of last year from less than $5 billion three years earlier,
making the Bethesda, Maryland-based real estate investment trust
the largest after  Annaly Capital Management Inc. (NLY) , in an industry
that’s drawing attention from investors and the Federal Reserve
for its double-digit yields and rapid expansion.  REITs bought more than $100 billion of government-backed
mortgage securities in 2012, the most since at least the credit
crisis, and will purchase another $60 billion in 2013, JPMorgan
Chase & Co. estimated this month. Fed Governor  Jeremy Stein 
pointed to the expansion of mortgage REITs, which have amassed
almost $400 billion of the debt, during a speech last month on
risky behavior in credit markets influenced by the central bank
holding borrowing costs near zero for a fifth year and investors
searching for high-yielding assets.  “Agency mortgage REITs deserve attention in particular
because they have exploded in size,” said John Gilbert, chief
investment officer at General Re-New England Asset Management, a
unit of  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  that oversees
$64 billion. “We’ve been dealing with the unintended
consequences of monetary policy for a long time. We have to be
on the lookout for the downside.”  Best Returns  American Capital, along with growing the fastest, has also
been one of the most successful of the mortgage REITs. Since
Kain, 48, was named chief investment officer, it’s returned 261
percent, including reinvested dividends, almost double the
returns of a 34-company  index .  The firm was started by private-equity financier Malon Wilkus and went public in February 2008, just as the Fed was
responding to the biggest financial crisis since the 1930s.  Wilkus, chief executive officer of investment firm  American
Capital Ltd. (ACAS) , hired Kain to help “navigate the evolving
mortgage landscape,” he said in a statement at the time. The
original management team had left in January 2009, about four
months after the government seized  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac,
when loan losses pushed the two firms to the brink of
bankruptcy.  Kain, now president of the REIT, joined the firm when it
held a little more than $2 billion and the Fed was preparing to
start buying  government bonds  to resuscitate the housing market.  Taking Advantage  He took advantage of the central bank’s buying and used
cheap borrowing costs to increase leverage for the REIT’s
purchases of government-backed mortgage securities. The bets
paid off, with the company returning 53 percent in 2009
including reinvested dividends.  The Silver Spring, Maryland native had spent almost his
entire career at  Freddie Mac (FMCC) , coming from  Johns Hopkins
University ’s Applied Physics Lab. He worked there for 18 months
after graduating with a degree in electrical engineering from
the  University of Pennsylvania .  He wrote computer models for mortgage cash flows in Freddie
Mac’s financial research team before moving into trading. By
1995, he was responsible for managing trading decisions and
hedging the company’s mortgage positions. When he left, he was
senior vice president of investments and capital markets.  Hedging Rates  Kain oversaw an average of about $700 billion during his
last few years with the company, primarily government-backed
mortgages. Since these bonds don’t take credit risks, his main
responsibility was hedging for changes in  interest rates . The
portfolio also included non-agency mortgage-backed securities,
including the subprime debt that helped fuel the housing boom
and contributed to the company’s losses that led to the
government rescue.  “A major emphasis of the subprime AAA portfolio was around
hitting affordable housing goals so it was not as pure of an
investment mindset,” Kain said.  When the government seized the company and sought to shrink
the portfolio and the company’s imprint on housing finance, Kain
said he “knew life at Freddie Mac was going to be very
different” and started considering other options.  “His background was a perfect fit for American Capital,”
said Jason Arnold, an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in San
Francisco. “There’s been a lot of problems at Fannie and
Freddie so it’s not surprising that someone would want to go out
and do something else rather than be under the umbrella of the
U.S. government.”  Biggest Winners  REITs (BBREMTG)  have been among the biggest winners from government
policies to resuscitate housing and stimulate the economy. The
Fed has made it easier and cheaper for the companies to borrow
through the so-called repo market. The central bank’s buying has
also pushed up the value of mortgage bonds that REITs invest in.  Dividend yields that average about 12 percent have also
lured investors seeking alternatives to corporate and government
debt paying shrinking coupons. American Capital is  yielding  more
than 15 percent. The company increased 0.8 percent to $32.78 at
4 p.m. today in New York.  Kain has applied knowledge from his experience at Freddie
Mac to buy mortgage bonds that have a lower risk of refinancing,
helping the firm return 17 percent this year. Since the debt
typically trades above 100 cents on the dollar, homeowners
taking out new loans when interest rates fall can erase the
value of the securities.  The resurgence of REITs has attracted the attention of Fed
officials and regulators, including the Securities and Exchange
Commission, which has said it’s examining whether the companies
should be allowed to continue borrowing without restrictions.  Market Forces  The concerns are overstated as REITs are limited by the
quality of assets or lender confidence in how they manage their
businesses, according to Kain.  “Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were not regulated by the
markets,” Kain said. “That was a key complaint which turned
out to be very fair. There weren’t any market forces that were
controlling the government sponsored enterprises. They could
borrow money irrespective of their risk posture because of the
implied guarantee” of the government, he said.  Kain’s team at American Capital, which includes longtime
Freddie Mac colleagues Peter Federico and Christopher Kuehl,
managed more in assets as of Dec. 31 than regional banks such as
 Keycorp (KEY)  and  M&T Bank Corp. (MTB)  Kain is also chief investment officer
of  American Capital Mortgage Investment Corp. (MTGE) , a separate REIT
with $7.7 billion in assets that buys securities not backed by
the government. The two companies have a staff of about 50
people, according to Wilkus.  No Business  “There are a lot of risks that need managing when you get
that big,” said Jason Stewart, an analyst at Washington-based
Compass Point Research & Trading LLC. “Kain and his team have
managed a block of assets much larger than they are doing today.
There are others that have no business having a balance sheet
that big.”  Armour Residential REIT Inc. (ARR) , which offered 65 million
shares to raise capital this quarter, is “an example of a
company pushing the limit of what their infrastructure can
support,” Stewart said.  Armour, which has returned 15 percent in the past year, had
$20.9 billion in assets and 14 employees as of Dec. 31,
according to a company filing. The firm has recently doubled the
size of its office facilities to accommodate additional staff,
according to Chief Financial Officer James Mountain.  The firm is “growing on pace with others in the industry
and we are raising capital, expanding our facilities and
increasing staff in step with that,” Mountain said.  Selling Shares  Mortgage REITs’ stock sales accelerated this year after
grinding to a halt at the end of 2012 when their stock prices
fell because of renewed Fed efforts to push down home-loan
rates.  American Capital sold $1.6 billion of shares last month,
allowing it to purchase as much as $15 billion of government-
backed home-loan securities, through the use of borrowed money,
according to Credit Suisse Group AG. Mortgage REITs have grown
enough to make them eligible to be included in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index, S&P said in a statement last month.  This addition could create more demand for the shares from
mutual funds and exchange-traded funds, Morgan Stanley analysts
led by Vipul Jain wrote in a March 1 report.  While mortgage REITs are showing attractive dividend yields
-- they have to pay out 90 percent of most types of earnings in
dividends, which allows the firms to avoid taxes on the income -
- and drawing investor interest, the firms have “some of the
characteristics of things one should worry about,” General Re-
New England’s Gilbert said. “Is it a full-fledged bubble yet?
Perhaps not. Could it go further? Certainly.”  Risk Taking  Fed Governor Stein, who voted in favor of continued asset
purchases at the central bank’s January meeting, referenced
mortgage REITs in a Feb. 7 speech discussing how some credit
markets are showing signs of potentially excessive risk-taking.  The firms had “grown rapidly” by using low-cost, short-
term financing to fund purchases of longer-term debt, he said.  Federal Reserve  Bank of New York President William C. Dudley said in a speech to the Economic Club of New York this
week that agency mortgage REITs “deserve ongoing attention,”
from regulators, who “must continue to take steps to mitigate
the vulnerability of the economy to a sharp rise in long-term
rates” and look “outside the banking system because some risks
reside elsewhere.” Dudley also cited the risk of large outflows
from bond mutual funds.  Primary Regulators  Low rates pose risks that investors in every market must be
prudent about managing, Wellington Denahan, chief executive
officer of Annaly, which has about $133 billion in assets, said
in an e-mail. The mortgage REIT sector in particular does so
through the use of swaps, she said, referring to derivatives
that can protect against changes in interest rates.  Unlike banks and insurers, mortgage REITs have no primary
regulators. They aren’t subject to the Investment Company Act,
which limits leverage.  American Capital uses 7 to 8 times leverage -- borrowing
that much compared to its capital, according to RBC’s Arnold.
“They are not sticking their neck way out,” he said.  When Kain was at Freddie Mac he ran a much larger portfolio
that was levered around 50 to 1, said Merrill Ross, an analyst
with Baltimore-based Wunderlich Securities Inc. That gave him
experience with different methods of risk management than the
ordinary public company or even hedge fund would be exposed to,
she said.  “Most investors are less used to leverage; we were used to
more,” Kain said. “That’s a key reason why we’ve been
successful and why we’ve been using very different hedging
techniques than our peers over the years.”  ‘Huge Market’  American Capital’s growth also still dwarfs the overall
market and the prior holdings of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac,
which had $1.8 trillion in assets on their balance sheets at
their peak, according to Kain.  “This is a huge market and we’re not concerned about our
size,” he said. “The REITs are a long, long way from what’s in
the banking system or what was in the government sponsored
enterprises.”  Kain may face bigger challenges at American Capital when
the central bank reduces its monthly bond purchases. The Fed’s
intervention in credit markets in the past year coupled with
policies put in place by President  Barack Obama  have expanded
opportunities for homeowners to refinance while sending
borrowing costs to record lows. That’s forced mortgage REITs to
make new investments at some of the lowest ever yields,
increasing the risk of losing value when rates do rise.  “The ultimate judgment will be when this market sells
off,” said Daniel Furtado, an analyst at Jefferies Group LLC in
San Francisco. “When the Fed exits and people start to sell and
when mortgage securities lose value.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  