-- Reliance Set for Longest Losing Streak Since 1997: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2013-03-28T08:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/reliance-set-for-longest-losing-streak-since-1997-mumbai-mover.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , operator
of the world’s biggest oil refining complex, declined for the
ninth straight day, its longest losing streak since 1997, as
profit from turning crude into fuels declined.  The  shares  dropped 0.8 percent to 777.5 rupees, the lowest
since Nov. 26, as of 1:07 p.m. in Mumbai after declining as much
as 2.4 percent. The benchmark S&P BSE Sensex fell 0.2 percent.
The shares have fallen 9.6 percent since March 14.  “Refining profits are coming off their highs and that will
affect Reliance,” said Deven Choksey, managing director at
Mumbai-based K.R. Choksey Shares & Securities Pvt., said by
phone. “This is the one business that was helping the company
post higher quarterly profits.”  Lower refining earnings will add to falling natural gas
production from the company’s biggest field off  India ’s east
coast, hurting profit that rose for the first time in a year
last quarter. The economic downturn in  Europe , slower growth in
 China  and new refining capacity will drive down margins
globally, George Nicolaides, president of refining technology at
Reliance, said earlier this month.  Diesel’s premium to Dubai crude in  Singapore , Asia’s oil
trading hub, has declined 30 percent to $15.32 a barrel today
from this year’s high of $21.96 a barrel on Feb. 25, according
to data from PVM Oil Associates Ltd. in  London .  The  difference  between Brent crude futures contract and
Dubai oil has also declined 30 percent, according to the data. A
wider difference benefits Reliance as they can buy cheaper
grades to process into high-quality fuels at its refineries in
in the west Indian state of Gujarat.  Refining Income  Reliance, controlled by billionaire  Mukesh Ambani , reported
a better-than-estimated  profit  of 55 billion rupees ($1 billion)
in the quarter ended Dec. 31. Refining  accounted  for 58 percent
of operating income in the quarter, more than double from a year
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company and partner  BP Plc (BP/)  are struggling to reverse a
more than two-year decline in gas output from the KG-D6 block.
The companies are spending spending about $1 million a day to
look for new reserves more than a mile below its biggest field,
a person with direct knowledge of the matter said this month.  Reliance produced an average 28 million cubic meters of gas
a day from the KG-D6 block in the nine months ended Dec. 31, 37
percent lower than a year earlier, according to a Jan. 18
report. The company started output in April 2009 and planned to
raise it to a peak daily rate of 80 million cubic meters in a
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  