-- Tri Pointe Shifts Land Plans as Price Surge Surprises
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2013-03-28T20:26:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/tri-pointe-shifts-land-plans-as-price-surge-surprises.html
Tri Pointe Homes Inc., the first
U.S. homebuilder to go public since 2004, is altering designs
and buying lots farther from city centers as land prices rise
faster than expected, President Tom Mitchell said.  The company, based in  Irvine ,  California , is accelerating
purchases of lots in such inland areas as Riverside County and
 Sacramento , California, as land prices surge in large coastal
cities, Mitchell said. Tri Pointe,  38 percent owned  by Barry Sternlicht’s Starwood Capital Group LLC, raised $233 million in
a January initial public offering, with most of the proceeds
being used for land purchases.  “A couple years ago you heard everybody talking about a
slow, stabilized recovery bouncing along the bottom, and not
experiencing a hockey-stick appreciation,” Mitchell said at a
March 26 Bloomberg dinner in Newport Beach, California, focused
on housing. “We’ve seen just the opposite of that.”  U.S.  new-home  sales are recovering from their biggest
collapse since the Great Depression as low  mortgage rates  and a
limited  supply  of existing houses drive demand. The prices
homebuilders pay for land have climbed 40 percent over the past
year in Orange County, Los Angeles and San Francisco, according
to Emile Haddad, chief executive officer of FivePoint
Communities Inc., an Aliso Viejo, California-based developer
with 50,000 lots in California communities.  Tri Pointe today announced fourth-quarter earnings of $6.45
million, compared with a loss of $1.45 million a year earlier.
Revenue rose to $56 million from $4.42 million. The company
owned or controlled more than 2,100 lots as of Dec. 31, up 35
percent from a year earlier.  Share Gain  The results were released after the close of regular U.S.
trading. Tri Pointe fell 1.6 percent to $20.15 today in New
York. The shares are up 19 percent since the company’s Jan. 30
IPO, compared with a 0.2 percent decline for the 11-member
Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding  Index. (S15HOME)   Lennar Corp. (LEN) , the third-largest U.S. builder and the
biggest investor in FivePoint Communities, has deliberately
slowed home sales in states such as California to help raise
prices, Jon Jaffe, chief operating officer of the Miami-based
company, said on a March 20 conference call.  “Since there hasn’t been much in the way of finished lots
being produced by the industry over the last several years,
there are many communities in which we do meter the rate of
sales and suppress it below what the market would demand,” he
said. “So, in that case, we are seeing more significant price
increases.”  Limited Supply  Contracts signed for existing U.S. homes fell 0.4 percent
in February from a month earlier, as a limited supply of homes
on the market reduced transactions, the National Association of
Realtors reported yesterday.  New homes  sold at an annual pace of
411,000 in February, following a 431,000 rate in January, the
best back-to-back months in more than four years, the Commerce
Department said earlier this week.  Housing prices in 20 cities increased 8.1 percent in
January from a year earlier, the biggest 12-month gain since
June 2006, according to S&P/Case-Shiller data.  “As pricing has accelerated so quickly, there’s a concern
if that’s real and sustainable,” Mitchell said. “We see kind
of a two-year window of the higher levels of appreciation that
we’re currently seeing. We think it’s going to level off.”  Tri Pointe, which began building in  Colorado  in the fourth
quarter and expects to expand to other parts of the U.S.
Southwest, will have to change its product line as buyers face
higher costs, he said.  “We’ll probably shift toward more-affordable, entry-level
product,” Mitchell said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  