-- Romania Keeps EU’s Highest Rate Unchanged on Cyprus, Inflation
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-03-28T10:40:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/romania-keeps-eu-s-highest-rate-unchanged-on-cyprus-inflation.html
Romania  kept its main interest rate
at a record low for an eighth meeting as Cyprus’s bailout weighs
on emerging-market currencies and inflation exceeds the central
bank’s target.  The Banca Nationala a Romaniei left its monetary policy
rate at 5.25 percent today, the highest in the European Union,
the bank said in an e-mail. The decision matched all 20
estimates by economists surveyed by Bloomberg. It also left its
minimum reserve requirements on foreign-exchange deposits at 20
percent and the ratio for leu deposits at 15 percent. Governor
Mugur Isarescu will hold a briefing at 3 p.m. in Bucharest.  A rescue plan that sought to impose losses on insured
Cypriot deposits has rekindled  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis,
sparking fears of contagion across the continent. Romania, which
halted a rate-cutting cycle in May, is bucking a regional trend
toward lower interest rates with inflation rate at more than
double the central bank’s target for this year.  “Looking ahead, we believe that the challenging inflation
outlook and potential spillovers from the euro-area crisis limit
the central bank’s ability to relax liquidity conditions further
without hurting the currency,” Ilker Domac and Gultekin Isiklar, economists at Citigroup Inc., wrote in a note to
clients before the decision.  The leu, the world’s best-performing currency against the
euro in January, pared this year’s advance to 0.8 percent after
the Cyprus uncertainty triggered a 1.3 percent loss this month.
It traded at 4.4186 at 12:36 p.m. in Bucharest today, down 0.1
percent from yesterday’s close.  Slowing Inflation  The inflation rate declined to 5.7 percent in February,
after reaching 6 percent in January, the highest in 19 months.
Price growth will return to the central bank’s target range of
1.5 percent to 3.5 percent by year-end, policy makers predict.  The bank provided funding in line with demands from
commercial lenders at its weekly repurchase operations for a
fourth week on March 25 after limiting liquidity for five months
to help boost the currency. The central bank lent 3.5 billion
lei ($1 billion), more than the 247 million lei provided a week
earlier.  “We are not in a situation to cut interest rates,”
Isarescu said yesterday during a speech in Bucharest. “Even
though we averted a recession we still have inflationary
expectations.”  Eastern European central banks are trimming borrowing costs
to help revive flagging economic growth. Hungary cut its main
interest to 5 percent on March 26, while  Poland ’s central bank
reduced its seven-day reference rate on March 6 to 3.25 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  