-- Rousseff Reaffirms Fighting Brazil CPI After ‘Manipulation’
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r   a n d   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 2013-03-28T15:52:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/rousseff-reaffirms-fighting-brazil-cpi-after-manipulation-1-.html
Brazil ’s President Dilma Rousseff
reaffirmed her commitment to contain price increases and said
her earlier comment that anti-inflation policies shouldn’t
sacrifice growth had been misinterpreted. Swap rates pared
declines after the president’s comments.  “That was an inadmissible manipulation of my speech,”
Rousseff said on the presidency’s blog yesterday. “Combating
inflation is a value in itself and permanent in my government.”
Her statements came after the financial market “erroneously
interpreted” her comments as reflecting leniency with
inflation, according to the blog.  Rousseff’s comments earlier yesterday had caused traders to
pare bets that the central bank would increase rates. “Killing
the patient instead of curing the disease is a bit
complicated,” Rousseff said to reporters at the summit of the
so-called BRICS nations in South Africa. “Am I going to put an
end to growth? That’s an outdated policy.”  With  inflation  outpacing the central bank’s 4.5 percent
target since September 2010 amid signs that Brazil is recovering
from a slowdown that has lasted more than two years, policy
makers held the key interest  rate  at 7.25 percent for the third
straight meeting in March. Rousseff this month cut all federal
taxes on basic foodstuffs in a bid to ease the strain on
families’ budgets after earlier this year reducing power prices
for households and industry.  Always Attentive  Inflation in Brazil is under control and the government is
always attentive to price increases, Rousseff had said in her
earlier comments at the summit, which brings together the
leaders of Brazil,  Russia ,  India ,  China  and South Africa.  Swap rates on the contract due January 2015 fell seven
basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 8.45 percent
yesterday, paring a 10 basis-point fall from earlier in the day.
Today the rate rose one basis point to 8.46 percent as of 12:38
p.m. Brasilia time.  Brazilian central bank President Alexandre Tombini said
from Durban that Rousseff had asked her to help clarify the
misunderstanding over her comments, according to an interview
published on the website of newspaper Estado de S. Paulo. The
central bank speaks on interest-rate policy, he said, according
to the Sao Paulo-based newspaper.  The prospect of inflation converging to the 4.5 percent
target in 2013 is “unrealistic,” Carlos Hamilton, the central
bank’s director of economic policy, said in a press conference
in Brasilia today. “Much can be done” for inflation to
converge to target in 2014, he said.  The bank today released its quarterly inflation report,
which said there is a 25 percent chance of inflation exceeding
the 6.5 percent target this year, even under a scenario in which
the benchmark rate rises 8 percent. In December, the bank saw a
14 chance of breaching the ceiling.  Accelerating Inflation  Brazil’s annual inflation as measured by the IPCA-15 index
accelerated to 6.43 percent in mid-March, near the 6.5 percent
ceiling of the central bank’s target range. The IGP-M index,
which is 60 percent weighted in producer prices, slowed to 8.06
percent in the 12 months through March 20. Tombini said record
harvests this year will help relieve some inflationary pressure.  “There is nothing we can do but expand production to
contain the increase in commodity prices derived from a lower
harvest in the U.S.,” Rousseff said yesterday.  Economists in the latest weekly central bank survey
forecast inflation of 5.71 percent this year and economic growth
of 3 percent, following a 0.9 percent expansion last year.  “With this kind of diagnosis that inflation depends on a
commodity price shock, we can read that this government is very
tolerant of inflation,”  Roberto Padovani , chief economist at
Votorantim Ctvm Ltda., said by telephone from Sao Paulo.
“They’re not going to react quickly.”  Padovani forecasts the central bank will boost the Selic
rate in August by 50 basis points as part of a 125-basis-point
raising cycle.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Biller in Rio De Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net ;
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  