-- Russia’s Corruption Hampers Growth, Rating, Moody’s Says
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-03-28T12:23:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/russia-s-corruption-hampers-growth-rating-moody-s-says.html
Russia’s low debt and deficit
levels are insufficient to win the country its first credit-
rating upgrade in almost five years because of corruption and
weak rule of law, Moody’s Investors Service said.  “With respect to the post-crisis growth potential, it’s
clearly constrained by a weak rule of law and the high
corruption levels,”  Dietmar Hornung , a Frankfurt-based analyst
for Moody’s, said in a phone interview today. “We appreciate
that Russia’s fiscal and external debt metrics look favorable
compared to other countries in the Baa rating category.”  Russia’s long-term ratings were affirmed by Moody’s at Baa1,
the third-lowest investment grade, with a stable outlook,
according to a statement dated March 27. Moody’s hasn’t changed
the country’s rating since a one-step upgrade in July 2008, the
last time a rating company improved Russia’s ranking.  With cushions such as the rainy-day  Reserve Fund  mired
below pre-crisis levels relative to the size of the economy,
Russia has grown more susceptible to external shocks,
particularly in case of a sustained drop in  oil prices , Moody’s
said. Still, the decision to allow a more flexible  exchange rate 
has softened those risks, according to the report.  Russia’s dollar-denominated Eurobonds due 2022 rose,
reducing the yield five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point,
to 3.285 percent as of 2:09 p.m. in Moscow. The yield has
advanced 56 basis points from a record low of 2.7216 on Jan. 3.  The cost to insure Russian debt for five years using
 credit-default swaps  advanced nine basis points to 166, the
highest since August 30, 2012, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange
for underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Russian Downgrades  While Moody’s has kept  Russia  on hold since before the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008,
rivals Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings both issued one-step
downgrades. S&P cut Russia to BBB, the second-lowest investment
rank, in December 2008 while Fitch followed with a similar move
in February 2009.  To win an upgrade, Russia will need to show improvements in
“institutional strength, the level of corruption, the rule of
law,” Hornung said. “Structural improvements are needed, and
that’s the challenge.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  