-- Russia Seen Holding Rates as Inflation Tops Growth Worry
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-03-29T10:47:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/russia-seen-holding-rates-as-inflation-tops-growth-worry.html
Russia  will probably leave  interest
rates  unchanged for a seventh month as inflation holds more than
a percentage point above above the central bank’s target range.  The refinancing rate will remain at 8.25 percent when
policy makers meet in Moscow on April 2, according to 17 of 21
economists in a Bloomberg  survey . Four forecast a quarter-point
cut. The overnight and one-week auction-based repurchase rates,
the main instruments used to provide banks with cash, will be
held at 5.5 percent and the deposit rate will stay at 4.5
percent, two other surveys showed.  Inflation that reached an 18-month peak is hamstringing a
move by policy makers to use monetary stimulus to lift an
economy expanding at the weakest pace since 2009. Chairman
Sergey Ignatiev, whose final term ends in June, has said he’d
consider cutting rates once inflation falls as the government
considers widening the regulator’s mandate to promote economic
growth.  “As far as easing, I think it’s more likely to spur
inflation than growth,” Sergey Shvetsov, a deputy chairman of
the central bank, said today in Moscow at a conference organized
by the Vedomosti newspaper. Russian corporate loan rates,
adjusted for inflation, are comparable with European borrowing
costs at about 3 percent, he said.  The average rate on ruble-denominated loans to companies
was  10.2 percent  in February, up from 10 percent a month earlier
and a 2012 low of 9.2 percent, central bank  data  show. Inflation
accelerated to 7.3 percent in February from a year earlier.  FRAs, NDFs  Three-month borrowing costs may rise three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, in the next three months, down from an
increase of as much as 15 basis points on March 27, according to
forward-rate agreements tracked by Bloomberg. The ruble added
0.2 percent to 31.0245 against the dollar.  Yields calculated based on non-deliverable ruble forwards
today showed one-month rates tumbling 32 basis points since
March 19 to 6.32 percent.  The central bank left all rates unchanged for a sixth month
on March 15, saying inflation remained at 7.3 percent in early
March -- unchanged from February. It also cited factors
including a surge in food costs and prices regulated by the
state. The economy continues to show some signs of deceleration,
the regulator said.  Not Justified  “I’m not of the opinion that there has been any urgent
information over the past two weeks that would justify a rate
cut,” Dmitry Polevoy, chief economist for Russia at  ING Groep
NV (INGA)  in Moscow, said by phone yesterday. “If you’re confident
that you’re right in your position, then hold your line: When
inflation is high, we’re not going to cut.”  The government and lawmakers are studying the possibility
of expanding the central bank’s mandate to include some
responsibility for ensuring economic growth, President  Vladimir Putin ’s spokesman,  Dmitry Peskov , said March 27.  The discussions follow Putin’s March 12 nomination of his
aide  Elvira Nabiullina , a former economy minister, to replace
Ignatiev, with lawmakers scheduled to resume hearings on the
nomination April 3.  Her appointment has triggered speculation that monetary
policy will be loosened after officials including Deputy Economy
Minister  Andrei Klepach  sought lower borrowing costs to revive
growth in what First Deputy Premier  Igor Shuvalov  called a
“huge argument” between the government and policy makers.  Shvetsov, Klepach  Speaking at the Moscow conference today, Shvetsov squared
off against Klepach on the virtues of harnessing monetary
stimulus to unlock economic growth. Klepach said faster
expansion is impossible without easing and policy adjustment by
the central bank. Shvetsov rebutted the arguments, pointing to
the role of government-regulated utility tariffs in fanning
price growth and the risk premiums as a result of Russia’s weak
judiciary system.  “The central bank is already making its contribution to
economic growth,” Shvetsov said. “And it’s clear that it’s the
government that’s responsible for economic growth and we are
helping the government, within our purview.”  The second board meeting in less than three weeks comes
after the  Economy Ministry  said March 21 that gross domestic
product expanded 0.1 percent from a year earlier in February.
The ministry projects inflation will end March at 7.2 percent
from a year earlier. The statistics service is scheduled to
publish the data April 4-5.  The central bank wants to keep inflation at 5 percent to 6
percent this year, a range it was forced to abandon last year.  Not Important  “The fact that the central bank is holding its rates
meeting before the publication of the inflation data sends the
signal that it’s not so important,” said Vladimir Osakovskiy,
chief economist for Russia at  Bank of America   Merrill Lynch in 
Moscow. “As soon as inflation starts to slow -- and that will
be clear in April or May -- the central bank will start to cut
rates.”  The central bank is convening earlier in April than
previously this year, when it held meetings near mid-month. The
decision prompted  Alfa Bank , Russia’s largest non-state lender,
to predict the regulator would move forward a quarter-point rate
cut, according to chief economist Natalia Orlova.  An earlier date was picked because of the need for a quorum
as some board members will be traveling abroad later in April,
Shvetsov said today.  Political Pressure  Given political pressure on the regulator, Ignatiev may
have wanted to make a cut before a scheduled speech at an annual
banking conference on April 3, Orlova said in a note to clients
April 27. The February slowdown in growth and a projected
deceleration in inflation in March would allow him to take that
step, she said.  “The disappointing economic data only increase the
likelihood that rates will be cut in April,” Maria Pomelnikova,
an analyst at ZAO Raiffeisenbank in Moscow, said by phone. “If
not in April, then in May. We’re expecting cuts to all rates by
at least 50 basis points in the second quarter.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  