-- S. Korean Output Unexpectedly Falls as Growth Forecast Cut
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2013-03-29T03:46:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/s-korean-output-unexpectedly-falls-as-growth-forecast-lowered.html
South Korea’s industrial production
unexpectedly fell in February, signaling that a recovery in
Asia’s fourth-largest economy may be slower than expected as a
weaker yen threatens exports.  Output fell 0.8 percent last month from January when it
fell 1.2 percent, Statistics Korea said today. The median
estimate of 10 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a
0.3 percent gain. Production fell 9.3 percent from a year
earlier, a decline partly attributable to February having fewer
working days this year because of the Lunar New Year holiday.  Today’s output decline may bolster the government’s case
for a larger supplementary spending package after Finance
Minister Hyun Oh Seok announced plans for stimulus yesterday.
The government cut the 2013 growth outlook from 3 percent to 2.3
percent as South Korean exporters including Samsung Electronics
Co. and Hyundai Motor Co. grapple with a won that’s risen 17
percent against the yen in the last year.  “We’re in a recovery, but surely not a strong one and the
ups and downs in the past few months are showing mixed signs
which the government isn’t happy about,” said Kwon Young Sun, a
Hong Kong-based economist at Nomura International Ltd. “The
decline in output data today fits in line with the need for a
stimulus the government has called for.”  South Korea’s economy expanded at the slowest pace last
quarter since the global recession. At the same time, an index
measuring manufacturers’ expectations for April rose to 80, the
highest level since July, from 76 for March, the Bank of Korea
said in a statement today. The country’s consumer sentiment
index rose to 104 in March, the highest level since May 2012.  Current Account  The government yesterday also cut projections for the
current account surplus this year to $29 billion from $30
billion, while reducing its inflation forecast to 2.3 percent
from 2.7 percent.  The Bank of Korea will announce its revised 2013 economic
growth forecast in second week of April, Governor Kim Choong Soo
told reporters in Kuala Lumpur yesterday. Its last forecast was
for 2.8 percent growth.  “The economy is not contracting, but there is no direction
in terms of sentiment,” said Sun Yoo, a Seoul-based economist
at Woori Investment & Securities Co. “There is a big chance
that the Bank of Korea will cut the benchmark interest rate in
April.”  The won fell 0.03 percent to 1,113.43 to the dollar as of
12:33 p.m. in Seoul today. The benchmark Kospi index rose 0.73
percent to 2008.05.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  