-- SAC Seen Facing Smoother SEC Accord Approval Than Citi
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-03-28T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/sac-seen-facing-smoother-sec-accord-approval-than-citi.html
SAC Capital Advisors LP may have an
easier time completing a $602 million settlement with the
Securities and Exchange Commission than  Citigroup Inc. (C)  did in
2011, in part because it faces a different judge, according to
securities lawyers.  Citigroup drew U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who in 2009
rejected a $33 million SEC settlement with  Bank of America
Corp. , then two years later criticized the agency and ruled that
Citigroup’s $285 million SEC settlement couldn’t go forward
because the deal wasn’t in the public interest. As they seek
approval today for a settlement of insider-trading claims,
lawyers for SAC Capital and the SEC will face U.S. District
Judge Victor Marrero.  Marrero, a colleague of Rakoff in the federal courthouse in
Manhattan, will consider SAC unit CR Intrinsic Investors LLC’s
deal to resolve claims over allegedly illegal trades by former
portfolio manager Mathew Martoma by paying the biggest
settlement ever in an SEC insider-trading lawsuit.  “I would expect that Judge Marrero will consider the terms
of the settlement, listen to the parties and I think he will
approve,” said Thomas Gorman, a former SEC lawyer who is now a
partner with the firm Dorsey & Whitney LLP. “This is a very
straightforward insider-trading settlement.”  At least six people who worked for SAC, the  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based hedge fund run by billionaire Steven A. Cohen,
have been accused of insider trading, either criminally or by
the SEC. They include Martoma, who’s been charged in what
prosecutors said is the biggest insider-trading scheme in
history.  Cohen Denial  Prosecutors claim Martoma shared inside tips on an
Alzheimer’s drug with Cohen, helping SAC make $276 million in
illegal profit and in losses avoided on shares of Elan Corp. and
Wyeth LLC. Cohen, who hasn’t been charged or sued, has denied
any wrongdoing. Martoma has pleaded not guilty.  The SEC announced the settlement March 15. SAC didn’t admit
or deny wrongdoing as part of the agreement.  Similar provisions proved to be a sticking point in earlier
SEC agreements for Rakoff, who like Marrero was appointed to the
bench by President Bill Clinton, a Democrat.  In a 2011 case involving  Vitesse Semiconductor Corp. (VTSS) ,
Rakoff approved a settlement after criticizing the SEC’s
practice of letting defendants settle allegations without saying
whether they’re true. Vitesse, based in Camarillo, California,
was accused by the SEC of fraudulently inflating revenue and
backdating stock options.  ‘Terrible Things’  “Here an agency of the U.S. is saying, in effect,
‘Although we claim that these defendants have done terrible
things, they refuse to admit it and we do not propose to prove
it, but will simply resort to gagging their right to deny it,’”
Rakoff wrote in his decision approving the settlement.  The SEC has defended the practice, saying it encourages
settlements and allows defendants to avoid public admissions
that would then be used against them in private litigation.  Marrero doesn’t have a record comparable to Rakoff’s of
holding up SEC settlements. He expressed a harsh view of insider
trading in May 2010 while sentencing Mark Kurland, a co-founder
of New Castle Funds LLC, in a case tied to the investigation of
Raj Rajaratnam’s Galleon Group LLC.  “Mr. Kurland here had a chance as a leader of the
financial industry, he could have led by example, instead he
chose to follow,” Marrero said before giving Kurland a 27-month
prison term. “He became a joiner, surrendering to a spree of a
mob mentality that nearly brought down this country’s financial
industry in a search for ever bigger and faster gains.”  Employee Supervision  Marrero will likely question the parties about the
agreement before deciding whether to approve it, said John C. Coffee Jr., a professor at Columbia Law School in New York. He
said Marrero may want to know why the SEC didn’t sue SAC for
so-called control-person liability, for failing to supervise its
employees.  Jonathan Gasthalter, an SAC spokesman who works for Sard
Verbinnen & Co., declined to comment before today’s hearing.  The SEC’s investigation of SAC is continuing, according to
George Canellos, the agency’s acting director of enforcement.
The CR Intrinsic settlement and a second agreement with SAC’s
Sigma Capital unit don’t prohibit the SEC from suing Cohen.  The SEC and the Federal Bureau of Investigation are also
probing trades that SAC Capital made in shares of  InterMune
Inc. (ITMN) , a Brisbane, California-based biopharmaceutical company, a
person familiar with the matter said. That inquiry wasn’t
resolved in last week’s settlement.  Sigma Settlement  Sigma Capital agreed to pay $14 million to resolve SEC
claims. The Sigma settlement stems from a case involving Jon Horvath, a former SAC technology analyst who pleaded guilty to
passing nonpublic information to his portfolio manager. The SEC
alleged that Horvath’s tips earned the fund more than $6.4
million in profit and avoided losses.  The Sigma case is assigned to U.S. District Judge Harold Baer Jr., another Clinton appointee.  Marrero has several cases from his courthouse to look back 
on when considering the SAC settlement today. In rejecting the 
$33 million  Bank of America  accord in 2009, Rakoff said that 
agreement suggested “a rather cynical relationship between the 
parties.”   In that case, the SEC claimed the Chalotte, North 
Carolina-based bank misled shareholders about bonuses and 
losses related to its  acquisition  of Merrill Lynch & Co.  “The SEC gets to claim that it is exposing wrongdoing on
the part of the Bank of America in a high-profile merger,”
Rakoff wrote at the time. “The bank’s management gets to claim
that they have been coerced into an onerous settlement by
overzealous regulators. And all this is done at the expense not
only of the shareholders, but also of the truth.”  Risky Mortgages  Rakoff later approved a $150 million settlement in which
the parties provided an agreed “statement of facts.”  In the Citigroup case, Rakoff rejected the proposed $285
million settlement of claims the New York-based bank misled
investors in a $1 billion financial product linked to risky
mortgages. Rakoff said the parties didn’t give him sufficient
facts to determine whether it was fair, adequate, reasonable and
in the public interest, as required by law. That decision is on
appeal.  Coffee said he expects Marrero, at the end of the process,
to approve the settlement with SAC.  “You don’t sneeze at the largest settlement ever,” Coffee
said.  The SEC case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. CR
Intrinsic Investors LLC, 12-08466, and the criminal case is U.S.
v. Martoma, 12-02985, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  