-- SAC Judge Questions Record $602 Million SEC Settlement
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-03-28T20:34:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/sac-judge-questions-record-602-million-sec-settlement.html
SAC Capital Advisors LP will have
to wait to learn if its $602 million insider trading settlement
with the Securities and Exchange Commission can go forward,
after a  Manhattan  judge raised questions over a provision that
allows the hedge fund to avoid admitting it did anything wrong.  SAC and the agency asked U.S. District Judge  Victor Marrero 
today to approve the agreement, which is the SEC’s biggest
insider-trading settlement. It would resolve SEC claims that SAC
and its CR Intrinsic Investors LLC unit profited from illegal
tips about an Alzheimer’s drug received by a former portfolio
manager, Mathew Martoma.  Marrero today expressed concern about the SEC’s use of the
“neither admit nor deny” provision, which was questioned by a
different judge who rejected an SEC settlement with  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  in 2011. Marrero said today he may condition approval of
the SAC deal on a ruling in the Citigroup case by the  U.S. Court
of Appeals  in  New York . Marrero also asked what would happen if
Martoma, who has pleaded not guilty to related criminal charges,
is convicted.  “How would it look if in the settlement before it, the
parties were allowed to say ‘We did nothing wrong?’” Marrero
asked.  SEC Lawyer  Charles Riely, a lawyer for the SEC, argued that the
Citigroup appeal doesn’t concern the question whether a judge
may approve a settlement with such a provision. He said the
judge is free to approve the deal without regard to the
Citigroup appeal.  “We do not see the no-admit, no-deny language as an
unsettled question,” Riely said.  “The ground is shaking, let’s admit that,” said Marrero.
“This court is in the same position that Judge Rakoff was some
months ago.”  In the Citigroup case, U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in
Manhattan criticized the SEC’s policy of allowing settlements
that permit defendants to neither admit nor deny the agency’s
allegations, ruling that Citigroup’s $285 million SEC settlement
couldn’t go forward because the deal wasn’t in the public
interest. The appeals court heard arguments in the case last
month.  $1 Million  Marrero questioned why SAC, the  Stamford , Connecticut-based
hedge fund run by billionaire  Steven A. Cohen , is willing to pay
more than $600 million to settle, rather than $1 million in
legal costs to defend itself, “if it truly did nothing wrong.”
He said he isn’t questioning the amount of the settlement.  SAC settled “because we have a business to run and we
don’t want to have this case hanging over our heads for years,”
Martin Klotz, a lawyer representing the firm, told Marrero.
“And we want to put this behind us.”  Jonathan Gasthalter, an SAC spokesman who works for Sard
Verbinnen & Co., declined to comment on today’s hearing.  Marrero ended the hour-long hearing without saying when he
will rule on the settlement.  At least six people who worked for SAC have been accused of
 insider trading , either criminally or by the SEC. They include
Martoma, who’s been charged in what prosecutors said is the
biggest insider-trading scheme in history.  Inside Tips  Prosecutors claim Martoma shared the inside tips on the
Alzheimer’s drug with Cohen, helping SAC make $276 million in
illegal profit and in losses avoided on shares of Elan Corp. and
Wyeth LLC. Cohen, who hasn’t been charged or sued, has denied
any wrongdoing. Martoma pleaded not guilty. His wife, Rosemary,
was in the courtroom today.  Martoma’s lawyer,  Charles Stillman , today told Marrero he
expects his client will go to trial to defend himself against
the insider trading charges. Responding to Marrero’s remark that
“97 percent” of cases are resolved before trial, Stillman
said: “We are the 3 percent and the criminal case will go to
trial.”  “I wonder whether they’ll get their money back when Mr.
Martoma is acquitted,” Stillman said, referring to SAC.  Rakoff and Marrero were both appointed to the bench by
President  Bill Clinton , a Democrat. Provisions allowing
defendants to neither admit nor deny SEC allegations have been a
sticking point for Rakoff in several cases.  2011 Case  In a 2011 case involving  Vitesse Semiconductor Corp. (VTSS) ,
Rakoff approved a settlement after criticizing the SEC’s
practice of letting defendants settle allegations without saying
whether they’re true. Vitesse, based in Camarillo,  California ,
was accused by the SEC of fraudulently inflating revenue and
backdating  stock options .  “Here an agency of the U.S. is saying, in effect,
‘Although we claim that these defendants have done terrible
things, they refuse to admit it and we do not propose to prove
it, but will simply resort to gagging their right to deny it,’”
Rakoff wrote in his decision approving the settlement.  The SEC has defended the practice, saying it encourages
settlements and allows defendants to avoid public admissions
that would then be used against them in private litigation. In a
policy change last year, the SEC limited the “neither admit nor
deny” language to settlements with defendants who have not
already been convicted of the conduct in related criminal cases.  ‘Cynical Relationship’  In rejecting a $33 million  Bank of America Corp.  accord
with the SEC in 2009, Rakoff said that agreement suggested “a
rather cynical relationship between the parties.”  In that case, the SEC claimed the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based bank misled shareholders about bonuses and losses
related to its  acquisition  of Merrill Lynch & Co.  “The SEC gets to claim that it is exposing wrongdoing on
the part of the Bank of America in a high-profile merger,”
Rakoff wrote at the time. “The bank’s management gets to claim
that they have been coerced into an onerous settlement by
overzealous regulators. And all this is done at the expense not
only of the shareholders, but also of the truth.”  Rakoff later approved a $150 million settlement in which
the parties provided an agreed “statement of facts.”  In the Citigroup case, Rakoff rejected the proposed $285
million settlement of claims the New York-based bank misled
investors in a $1 billion financial product linked to risky
mortgages. Rakoff said the parties didn’t give him sufficient
facts to determine whether it was fair, adequate, reasonable and
in the public interest, as required by law. That decision is on
appeal.  Marrero’s Record  Marrero doesn’t have a record comparable to Rakoff’s of
holding up SEC settlements. He expressed a harsh view of insider
trading in May 2010 while sentencing  Mark Kurland , a co-founder
of New Castle Funds LLC, in a case tied to the investigation of
Raj Rajaratnam’s Galleon Group LLC.  “Mr. Kurland here had a chance as a leader of the
financial industry, he could have led by example, instead he
chose to follow,” Marrero said before giving Kurland a 27-month
prison term. “He became a joiner, surrendering to a spree of a
mob mentality that nearly brought down this country’s financial
industry in a search for ever bigger and faster gains.”  The SEC’s investigation of SAC is continuing, according to
George Canellos, the agency’s acting director of enforcement.
The CR Intrinsic settlement and a second agreement with SAC’s
Sigma Capital unit don’t prohibit the SEC from suing Cohen.  Sigma Capital agreed to pay $14 million to resolve SEC
claims. The Sigma settlement stems from a case involving Jon Horvath, a former SAC technology analyst who pleaded guilty to
passing nonpublic information to his portfolio manager. The SEC
alleged that Horvath’s tips earned the fund more than $6.4
million in profit and avoided losses.  The Sigma case is assigned to U.S. District Judge Harold Baer Jr., another Clinton appointee.  The SEC case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. CR
Intrinsic Investors LLC, 12-cv-08466, and the criminal case is
U.S. v. Martoma, 12-cr-02985, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  