-- Sales Surge of Long-Term Notes Tied to Stocks on Risk Appetite
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2013-03-28T19:03:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/sales-surge-of-long-term-notes-tied-to-stocks-on-risk-appetite.html
U.S investors are betting soaring
stocks can deliver higher yields through structured notes that
potentially expose them to large losses and lock up capital for
as long as 20 years.  Sales of equity-linked securities that mature in 10 years
or more and can be redeemed early surged to $301.2 million in
the first quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Banks issued less than one-eighth as many notes, $35.5 million,
the year before.  Investor appetite for riskier assets has grown, with the
 Federal Reserve  purchasing $85 billion a month of Treasury and
mortgage debt to support the economy and the benchmark rate
remaining between zero and 0.25 percent for a fifth year. The
equity-tied securities depend on the performance of large stock
indexes and eventually pay coupons as high as 15 percent a year,
as long as they’re not redeemed early and markets don’t plunge.  The jump in sales is “a sign that investors are optimistic
over the longer time horizon,” said Stephen Hemphill, partner
at  Alternative Wealth Group Inc. , which distributes structured
notes to 35 independent broker-dealers for Patrick Capital
Markets LLC.  Morgan Stanley issued $110 million of 15-year callable
securities tied to the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index on Jan. 15,
according to a  prospectus  filed with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. The sale is the largest among $5.86 billion
of U.S. issuance linked to stocks this year.  Reverse Convertibles  With a long-dated callable note, investors often risk large
losses identical to the declines of the underlying benchmark if
the gauge drops beyond a barrier that can be 30 percent or 50
percent of the initial value. The notes somewhat resemble
reverse convertibles, which put a buyer’s principal in jeopardy
if the company’s shares plummet. In the U.S. though, reverse
convertibles typically mature in less than a year and are tied
to a single stock.  While the two products have similarities, long-term
callable notes are “much more conservative,” said Serge Troyanovsky, managing director and head of North American
structured product sales at BNP Paribas SA in  New York . They are
linked to indexes instead of more volatile individual stocks, he
said, and the longer maturities mean better terms, such as
bigger protective barriers.  For buyers of the securities, the payments are less
certain. Investors don’t receive a coupon on dates when the
index drops below a certain level. They also are stuck holding
any securities that are paying little or no yield, while others
that perform well are redeemed early.  Reinvestment Risk  The notes, which Bloomberg data show can be called as
little as one year after issuance, put buyers at risk of not
being able to reinvest their funds at the same rates, said Tim
Dulaney, senior financial economist at the  Securities Litigation
& Consulting Group Inc. , a Virginia consulting firm, in an e-
mail. Issuers have redeemed two of the five securities eligible
to be redeemed that have been sold since 2010.  The long-term notes, with their variable coupons and
different call dates and barriers, are “just as complex” as
reverse convertibles, he said.  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s securities tied to the  S&P 500 Index (SPX) ,
issued on Jan. 15, pay monthly coupons only when the benchmark
is at least 70 percent of its initial value, according to the
prospectus filed with the SEC. The coupon rises from 7 percent
annually for the first five years, to 8 percent for the next
five years, then 12 percent afterward until maturity. The bank,
which distributed the notes for a 3.5 percent fee, can redeem
them after five years.  The S&P 500 Index  rose  9.6 percent this year to 1,562.85
yesterday.  Lauren Onis, a spokeswoman for Morgan Stanley, declined to
comment on the offering.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in  interest rates  or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in New York at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  