-- HSBC Woman Plans Restaurant for 210 in Canary Wharf
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2013-03-28T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/hsbc-woman-plans-restaurant-for-210-in-canary-wharf.html
Sunaina Sethi, a British woman who
joined HSBC in  Frankfurt  and planned a career in banking, is to
open a restaurant in  London ’s  Canary Wharf  next month.  The Pearson Room will be an all-day-dining venue at Canada
Square, serving an eclectic menu of dishes such as Romney Marsh
lamb cutlets, wild roasted black pepper crust; and Kirsch cherry
sundae. The opening is scheduled for April 24.  Sethi, whose parents emigrated to the U.K. from New Delhi
about 40 years ago, studied management and German in Nottingham
before going to work at HSBC in September 2008. She quit banking
in 2010 and joined her family’s restaurant, Trishna.  “My family background is in accounting and banking and I
assumed I would go down that route,” Sethi, 25, said in an
interview. “But I found it wasn’t for me. I didn’t want to sit
behind a desk, and in hospitality, no two days are the same.”  The Pearson Room, named after the late Canadian Prime
Minister Lester B. Pearson, will seat 120 in the restaurant and
another 90 in the bar area. Sethi, who was the sommelier at
Trishna, will head the front of house. Bubbledogs co-owner
Sandia Chang is helping devise the Champagne list.  Sethi’s family are investors in Bubbledogs. Pearson Room is
attached to  Reebok Sports Club , with its own entrance.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Farah Nayeri and  Mark Beech  on
music,  Jason Harper  on cars,  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology,
London and  New York   weekend guides  and  Lance Esplund  on U.S.
art.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines at  rvines@bloomberg.net  or
 http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 