-- Scotiabank Leads Mutual Funds Cutting Bank Holdings
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2013-03-28T20:27:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/scotiabank-leads-mutual-funds-cutting-bank-holdings.html
The  Scotia Canadian Dividend Fund (NATTRDIV) 
has cut its bank holdings by 40 percent, the most among Canada’s
10 largest actively-managed mutual funds, on concern that
lending is slowing as consumers retrench.  The  fund  has reduced bank stocks, including those of its
its parent  Bank of Nova Scotia , to about 12 percent of its
C$3.42 billion ($3.37 billion) portfolio from 20 percent at the
end of 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “There’s no question that things are going to slow down
from where they’ve been in the past few years,” said Jason Gibbs, portfolio manager at GCIC Ltd, the Toronto-based  money
manager  that runs the fund for Scotiabank. GCIC made a
“strategic decision” to diversify assets when it took over
management of the fund, the country’s sixth largest according to
Bloomberg figures, in November 2011, Gibbs said.  Canada’s banks, ranked the world’s soundest for the past
five years by the World Economic Forum, have said domestic
banking profit is expected to slow this year amid record
 household debt . “With Canadian households deleveraging,
consumer lending growth is slowing across the industry,”
Toronto-Dominion Bank Chief Executive Officer  Edmund Clark  told
investors  Feb.  28.  Royal Bank of Canada, Toronto-Dominion Bank and  Bank of
Montreal (BMO)  posted higher net income in the fiscal first quarter,
bolstered by gains from business loans and wealth management.
That helped propel the 10-member  Standard & Poor’s /TSX Banks
Index to a  record  high of 2241.30 on Feb. 28. It is up 1.9
percent this year compared with 2.5 percent for the broad TSX
 Composite (SPTSX)  index.  Record Debt  Standard & Poor’s said last week it expects revenue and
loan growth for Canadian banks to reach “mid single-digit
levels” this year from 9 percent and 10 percent in 2012,
respectively.  “While not necessarily likely to revert, we do not believe
that these issues will likely continue to aid earnings growth,”
 John Aiken , an analyst at Barclays Capital in Toronto said in a
March 11 note to clients. Ongoing headwinds “will likely lead
to significantly lower levels of earnings growth through the
remainder of 2013,” the analyst said.  The ratio of Canadian household debt to disposable income
rose to a record 165 percent in the last quarter of 2012 from
164.7 percent  in the prior three-month period, Statistics
Canada reported on March 15.  Other Funds  Scotiabank fund’s move echoes a reduction among its peers,
albeit with relatively smaller declines. Fidelity Investments’s
Fidelity True North Fund, the third-biggest actively managed
fund in Canada according to data compiled by Bloomberg, has cut
its bank investments to 14 percent from about 16 percent two
years ago, while Toronto-Dominion’s  TD Dividend Growth Fund (TDGDIVD) , the
second biggest, reduced banks to 41 percent from 42 percent.  Chris Pepper a spokesmen for Fidelity and Ali Duncan
Martin, a Toronto-Dominion spokeswoman, declined to comment.
Investors Dividend Fund, the largest actively managed fund in
Canada with C$14.7 billion under management, raised its bank
exposure to 34 percent from 31 percent at the end of 2011,
according to Bloomberg data.  Energy, Utilities  Other large funds, including the  Beutel Goodman Canadian
Equity Fund (BEUGOOCE)  and  Bank of Montreal ’s BMO Dividend Fund, have kept
bank holdings at roughly the same amount since the end of 2011.
 CI Financial Corp. (CIX) ’s  CI Canadian Investment Fund (CDNINVFL)  increased its
bank exposure to 17 percent from about 16 percent.  The financials category remains the largest sector
allocation for the Scotia Canadian Dividend Fund at about 29
percent, with Scotiabank,  Brookfield Asset Management Inc. (BAM/A) ,
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  and insurer  Intact Financial Corp. (IFC)  among
the top 10 holdings at the end of February.  Energy is the second-largest weighting in the fund,
representing about 23 percent of the portfolio, followed by
consumer discretionary, utilities and telecommunications
services stocks.  The fund has returned 9.8 percent in the 12 months through
yesterday including dividends,  compared  with 5.1 percent for the
TSX Composite Index and 7.9 percent for Bloomberg’s Active
Indices for Funds.  Brookfield Asset  “It’s really looking at diversification, where we can find
the best values,” Gibbs said. “We wanted to add to real
estate, and part of that came from a reduction in the Canadian
banks.”  The fund has bolstered its real estate holdings to 13
percent, up from about 8 percent at the end of 2011. That’s to
diversify away from bank concentration while capitalizing on
increased demand for commercial real estate in North America,
particularly  Canada , said Gibbs.  One company the fund has increased its weighting in is
Toronto-based Brookfield Asset, whose shares have  increased  15
percent in the last year. Today, the shares rose 1.7 percent to
C$37.10 in 4 p.m. trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange.  “That’s a company I consider real estate and
infrastructure,” said Gibbs. “It’s relatively simple. You
don’t have a lot of supply, speaking generally. The demand for
real estate remains enormous.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  