-- Serbs May See Debt Rating Downgrade If Gaps Expand, S&P Says
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-03-28T15:56:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/serbs-may-see-debt-rating-downgrade-if-deficits-expand-s-p-says.html
Serbia ’s sovereign debt ratings may
be downgraded if deficits continue to widen and policy makers
fail to implement measures to address public-sector
inefficiencies, Standard and Poor’s said.  Serbia’s long-term and short-term foreign and local
currency credit ratings remained unchanged at BB- and B, S&P
said in a statement today. A “significant deterioration in the
fiscal or external positions driven either by external shocks or
domestic policy inaction” would create a potential for lower
ratings, it said.  “The ratings on Serbia are constrained by our view of
potential challenges in light of stubbornly high fiscal and
external deficits,” S&P said. “Limited monetary flexibility”
is also “a ratings weakness” because of the high share of
euros in the economy and “a mixed track record of  price
stability .”  Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic ’s Cabinet, in office less than
one year, has pledged to narrow the fiscal gap to 3.6 percent of
gross domestic product this year from 6.7 percent in 2012, as
well as curb price increases and restart growth. One out of four
Serbs is jobless in an economy that shrank an estimated 1.7
percent last year.  Serbia’s planned fiscal consolidation for 2013-2015 may
“shave off over 1 percent of GDP on average,” S&P said. “As a
result, we believe medium-term growth drivers will be difficult
to identify unless the government is more strenuous in its
reforms to the labor market and public sector.”  IMF Loan  Serbia would would benefit from a new loan program with the
 International Monetary Fund  as it could help “entrench fiscal
and structural reforms” as well as contribute to dinar
stability and growth prospects, “potentially leading the
ratings to stabilize at the current level,” S&P said.  The IMF suspended a $1.3 billion precautionary loan with
Serbia in February 2012 on evidence the previous government was
slipping on deficit and debt targets. It told Serbia in November
to cut debt without choking economic growth, citing an
unsustainable fiscal gap, volatile inflation and unemployment.  Dacic wants to negotiate a precautionary loan program as it
assures investors the IMF approves of the government’s policies
even though the country doesn’t intend to draw on any of the
funds. The IMF won’t discuss a new loan unless Serbia agrees on
fiscal-policy adjustments including credible fiscal
consolidation and structural reforms, the lender’s resident
representative Bogdan Lissovolik said on March 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  