-- Shaka Smart to Stay With VCU After Third Tournament Appearance
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-03-28T15:29:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/shaka-smart-to-stay-with-vcu-after-third-tournament-appearance.html
Virginia Commonwealth University 
men’s basketball coach Shaka Smart will stay with the program
that he’s led to three consecutive national championship
tournament appearances and 35 straight home sellouts.  Smart has agreed to rework his contract one week after the
Rams lost to the  University of Michigan  in the National
Collegiate Athletic Association tournament’s round of 32, the
school announced on its website.  The 35-year-old was a candidate to fill coaching vacancies
at UCLA and  Minnesota , according to ESPN.  “Coach Smart has demonstrated through this process that he
is loyal to VCU and his greatest concern lies with our program
moving forward every year,” VCU Athletic Director Ed McLaughlin
said in a statement. “Our goal was to present him with a
revised agreement proactively rather than wait for another
institution to step in with an offer.”  The Richmond, Virginia, school was not specific about the
changes made to Smart’s contract.  Sports Illustrated  reported
that the extension runs through 2023, and raises Smart’s annual
salary to $1.5 million from $1.2 million.  Smart is 111-37 in four years with the Rams, including the
team’s run to the Final Four as a No. 11 seed in 2011 and its
trip to the round of 32 last season. The Rams have won an NCAA
tournament game in three straight seasons for the first time in
school history.  VCU set a school attendance record this season, its first
as a member of the Atlantic 10 conference, selling out all 17
home dates to bring its sell-out streak to 35 games, according
to the statement.  -- Editors: Michael Sillup, Jay Beberman  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  