-- Shipping Magnate Luksic Dies of Cancer Amid CSAV Turnaround
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-03-28T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/shipping-magnate-luksic-dies-of-cancer-amid-csav-turnaround-1-.html
Guillermo Luksic Craig, who bet
part of Chile’s biggest fortune on turning around  Latin
America ’s largest container shipping company, died yesterday of
 lung cancer . He was 57.  As chairman of holding company  Quinenco SA (QUINENC) , Luksic plowed
more than $1 billion into Cia. Sud Americana de Vapores SA in
the past two years after it lost a record $1.25 billion in 2011.
The purchase added to a family business estimated by Bloomberg
at $16.8 billion and that includes Chile’s leading bank and
brewer, as well as mining assets.  By shedding rented vessels and unprofitable routes, Luksic
helped reduce losses at CSAV to $314 million last year, spurring
a 36 percent share-price rally. The company will now focus on
South American routes in joint operations with other shipping
firms, allowing CSAV to revert its losses this year, Luksic said
in the last published annual report of Quinenco.  “There could be some short-term volatility on CSAV’s stock
as the decision to buy was his,” said Jorge Sepulveda, an
analyst at Santiago-based brokerage Euroamerica Corredores de
Bolsa SA. “He put people in charge and on the board who shared
his vision, so the long-term strategy should remain intact.”  CSAV fell 0.6 percent to 47.75 pesos in Santiago today
while  Chile ’s Ipsa benchmark index was little changed.  ‘Fundamental Pillar’  Luksic’s father, Andronico, built up the family fortune by
buying up copper deposits and a loss-making railroad in the
Atacama Desert in 1980 and turning them into London-based copper
mining company  Antofagasta Plc. (ANTO)  The company had sales of $6.74
billion last year. Eldest son, Andronico, took over the family’s
banking interests, while younger brother, Jean-Paul, took the
mining operations on the death of their father in 2005.  The family’s fortune is controlled by Guillermo’s
stepmother,  Iris Fontbona , who ranks 43rd on the Bloomberg
Billionaire Index.  Quinenco, founded in 1957, owns controlling stakes in
lender  Banco de Chile , brewer Cia. Cervecerias Unidas SA and
copper wire producer Madeco. Through Madeco it owns a stake in
French wire producer  Nexans SA. (NEX)   “He was a fundamental pillar in our family,” Guillermo’s
brother, Andronico, said in an e-mailed statement today. “We
will miss his advice, his company and his intelligence.”  Guillermo leaves five children and four grandchildren. His
funeral will be held today in Santiago, according to the
corporate communications company Nexos.  ’Creating Wealth’  “We have to value the business contribution of people like
Guillermo Luksic, who have created wealth, jobs, real
development,” lawmaker Alberto Cardemil, a former member of the
lower house finance committee, said on state-owned television
TVN today. “The Luksic family, together with a number of other
businesspeople, made possible Chile’s modern development,
creating wealth.”  Guillermo entered the family business in 1975, dropping out
of a law degree at the University of Chile, before becoming
chairman of Quinenco in 1982 at the age of 26, according to
yesterday’s statement.  Quinenco became the controller of Banco de Chile in 2001.
The company merged the lender with the local operations of
Citigroup Inc. in 2008. Citigroup now owns 50 percent of LQ
Inversiones Financieras SA, the holding that controls Banco de
Chile.  Desert Wines  In 2008, Quinenco’s Madeco bought a 23 percent stake in
French wire producer Nexans SA and in 2011 they agreed to buy
the Terpel service stations in Chile from  Empresas Copec SA. (COPEC)   Luksic created the Tabali vineyard in 1993, producing pinot
noir and chardonnay wines near northern Chile’s Atacama Desert.
He was working on creating a sparkling wine from an arid valley
in the area, according to the company’s website.  “Guillermo had an extremely well-honed long-term view for
the companies he was running,” Cristobal Lyon, head of equity
research at lender Corpbanca, said in a phone interview. “He
knew the right moment to invite Citigroup into Banco de Chile
and when to buy CSAV, which they are now turning around.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net . 