-- Sifma Urges End to Some Data Systems as Audit Trail Nears
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2013-03-28T22:09:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/sifma-urges-end-to-some-data-systems-as-audit-trail-approaches.html
U.S. regulators implementing a
sweeping project to monitor securities trading should discard
overlapping systems designed to capture similar data, according
the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association.  The Securities and Exchange Commission should end its
Electronic Blue Sheets system for collecting trading information
from brokers and exchanges and its Large Trader Reporting
system, approved in 2011 as a way to compile data on the 300
biggest market participants, Sifma said in a  paper  published on
its website today. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority,
which oversees almost 4,300 brokers, should also end its Order
Audit Trail System, in place since the late 1990s, Sifma said.  The planned consolidated audit trail, or CAT, one of former
SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro ’s main projects, will track all
securities orders and trades in the U.S. from start to
completion and give the agency and other regulators a system to
monitor markets, pursue abusive behavior and reconstruct
crashes. The exchanges and Finra said in November they would
submit the plan to develop the system in December 2013, eight
months later than initially expected.  The money it will take to comply with overlapping reporting
requirements “not only complicates the task of sound
regulation, but also serves as a tax on the industry that can
increase costs to the investing public, reduce  shareholder value 
and reduce the competitiveness of U.S. markets,” Sifma wrote in
the report, co-authored with International Business Machines
Corp., which was engaged as a consultant for the study.  Improving Oversight  The trade group said it supports the construction of a
consolidated audit trail, which it expects to improve
regulators’ oversight and boost confidence in markets. It wants
to ensure that brokers, banks and other Sifma members have a
voice in the development of the oversight system, according to
 Tom Price , managing director and head of operations and
technology at Sifma.  “This is an opportunity once and for all to clean up some
of the disparate reporting rules in the system and to create one
infrastructure to capture the information in a single place,”
Price said in a phone interview. “This is a monumental game-
changer of regulatory reporting for our industry. This computer
will be one of the largest computers in the world in the amount
of information it will carry on every quote, every trade and
every modification for every customer.”  Additional oversight systems that should be eliminated when
the consolidated audit trail comes into effect are the
Consolidated Options Audit Trail System, the Large Options
Position Reporting and the National Securities Clearing Corp.’s
equity cleared reports, the Sifma paper said.  Funding Sources  Ending duplicate reporting requirements will allow brokers
and regulators “to tap into a pre-existing source of funding
for the CAT,” according to Sifma. The capital and resources
that are freed up can be used to update brokerage systems to
comply with the new requirements, it said.  The exchanges and Finra have not outlined the costs to
build the oversight system or spelled out what portion should be
paid by exchanges and broker-dealers. The SEC said last year
that its initial estimate of $4 billion to build the system was
too high because the requirements changed after they were first
proposed.  Contract Bidders  Google Inc., Infosys Ltd., IBM, Finra,  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ,
 Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and Bats Global Markets Inc. said earlier
this month they would submit bids to build the audit trail.
Technology providers Tradeworx Inc., Cinnober Financial
Technology AB and MillenniumIT, owned by the  London Stock
Exchange Group Plc (LSE) , were also among the 31 bidders, along with
SunGard Data Systems Inc. and Sapient Corp.  The administration of the consolidated audit trail should
be centralized under a single entity to reduce costs, according
to Sifma. The group said part of the project should be paid for
with some of the hundreds of millions of dollars in revenue the
exchanges get annually from the sale of market data. The SEC
refers to exchanges as self-regulatory organizations, or  SROs .  “We laid some markers down conceptually about how we view
this,” Price said. “The industry shouldn’t bear the entire
cost of this. For-profit entities that have SRO responsibilities
and the industry will have to bear the cost.”  Revenue Generation  The exchanges and Finra generated $464 million in revenue
in 2008 from the sale of public quotation and transaction data
to brokers and vendors such as Thomson Reuters Corp. and
Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , according to an SEC
paper published in 2010. Net income from selling the information
was $449 million, the data showed. Exchanges also sell private
data feeds to brokers, vendors and trading firms.  The discussion about costs comes as more volume is moving
away from exchanges. More than 36 percent of U.S. equity shares
changed hands off exchanges this year, compared with 32.8
percent last year, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Broker-dealers will incur costs to support the reporting
requirements across trading, order-routing, order-management,
compliance and risk management areas, the report said without
estimating how much that would total. They will have to invest
in new technology infrastructure, devise new ways to transmit
and track data, build new software interfaces, develop
surveillance and reporting protocols, and hire people, it said.  Cost Recovery  The organization that manages the audit trail should run
the system at a “cost recovery model” given the system’s role
as an “industry utility supporting regulatory and reporting and
oversight,” Sifma said. The terms of the business model should
be set by the exchanges, Finra and the project’s advisory
committee including broker-dealers, the group said.  The current timeline for large broker-dealers to report
data to the audit trail may need to be amended, Sifma said.
Brokers won’t have enough time to finalize the building and
testing of their internal technology systems by December 2015,
the current deadline for bigger brokers, it said.  “We want to make sure there’s minimal disruption to
existing processes and systems in the marketplace and we have
industry participation,” Price said. “The ultimate goal is to
enhance public trust and confidence in the public markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net . 