-- Singapore Gets First LNG Cargo From Qatar at Jurong Island
-- B y   C h o u   H u i   H o n g
-- 2013-03-28T08:23:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/singapore-receives-first-lng-cargo-from-qatar-at-jurong-island.html
Singapore  LNG Corp., the island
state’s importer of liquefied natural gas, received its first
cargo and will use the spot shipment from Qatar to start
operations next quarter.  “The first commissioning LNG cargo arrived at the
Singapore LNG terminal on March 27, 2013,” Simon Ang, a company
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement today. “This LNG cargo
will be used to cool down and commission the LNG terminal, to
get it ready for full and continuous operations by the second
quarter of 2013.”  Singapore, vying to become  Asia ’s hub for trading LNG, has
no long-term supply contract with Qatar, the world’s largest
producer of natural gas chilled to liquid form for shipping,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Energy Market
Authority, Singapore’s regulator, agreed in 2008 to import LNG
from  BG Group Plc (BG/)  over 10 years.  The Umm Slal, with a capacity of 260,928 cubic meters,
sailed from Qatargas’s Ras Laffan LNG terminal, where it loaded
the supercooled natural gas and departed March 18, according to
ship transmissions captured by IHS Fairplay on Bloomberg. The
tanker is a Q-Max LNG vessel, which is the largest in its class.  “We are not at liberty to divulge the value and size of
the commissioning cargo due to commercial confidentiality,” Ang
said.  BG’s first LNG cargo to Singapore may come from  Trinidad &
Tobago  or  Africa , Neil McGregor, the SLNG’s chief executive
officer said in a Feb. 19 interview. BG’s Singapore-based
spokesman, Damien Bird, declined to discuss the source of the
LNG or its arrival date in an e-mailed statement.  Asian Hub  Singapore is the most likely hub for trading natural gas,
according to the  International Energy Agency . Its new LNG
terminal will serve a wide array of tankers and boost import
capacity “far beyond” domestic needs, the IEA said in a report
Feb. 26.  Three new companies may become importers, aggregators or
traders using the Singapore LNG terminal along with BG, McGregor
said. Singapore’s energy regulator will start new consultations
with LNG suppliers once BG sells the cargoes from its 3 million
metric ton-a-year contract, Lee Yi Shyan, the country’s trade
minister, said Jan. 24.  Further Growth  The master plan for Singapore’s LNG terminal calls for as
many as seven  storage tanks  and a peak capacity of 20 million
tons, McGregor said. The company is currently considering a
fourth gas storage tank big enough to fit four A380 jumbo jets
to lower storage costs and hold cargoes from a 266,000 cubic-
meter Q-Max LNG ship, he said.  A final decision on whether to build the fourth LNG tank is
expected by year end, and construction could be completed by
2017, McGregor said.  The fourth unit may cost around S$500 million ($403
million), S. Iswaran, Singapore’s second trade minister, said in
October.  The facility will start operating with two 188,000 cubic-
meter tanks and a 3.5 million ton-a-year capacity. It will
expand its terminal to 6 million metric tons-a-year with the
addition of a third 188,000 cubic-meter tank by early 2014,
according to the company’s website.  The site of the terminal has land for two liquefied
petroleum gas tanks, which may be built if “the business case
underpins the investment,” McGregor said.  An LPG facility at the terminal can be used to increase the
energy content of LNG cargoes to produce the so-called rich
natural gas preferred by North Asian LNG buyers, McGregor said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chou Hui Hong in Singapore at 
 chong43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  