-- Small Drop in Sugar Acres Adds Pressure on USDA to Enter Market
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2013-03-28T17:57:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/small-drop-in-sugar-acres-adds-pressure-on-usda-to-enter-market.html
A 1.5 percent decrease in plantings
of sugar beets in 2013 may increase pressure on the government
to buy the commodity, as the acreage drop won’t reduce excess
supplies enough to stave off purchases.  Farmers intend to plant 1.211 million acres of the crop
this year, down from 1.23 million last year, a U.S. Department
of Agriculture survey of producers said today. The drop in
plantings of beets bought by  American Crystal Sugar Co. (ASCS)  and sold
to processors including  Mondelez International Inc. (MDLZ)  won’t ease
pressure on the government to implement a program to buy surplus
sweetener for ethanol plants, said  Michael McDougall , a senior
vice president at Newedge Group in New York.  “The domestic sugar market will remain oversupplied, and
the USDA is more likely to sell sugar at a loss,” McDougall
said in a telephone interview today.  Beets are responsible for almost three-fifths of the U.S.
sugar crop. Futures prices for sugar through yesterday have
dropped 39 percent in the past year as stockpiles have risen to
their biggest in a decade, potentially triggering federal
purchases under programs designed to rein in surplus. The
government next week can begin adjusting import levels, one way
to restrict supplies, under agricultural legislation passed in
2008. Sugar-subsidy spending in a time of budget cuts and record
 farm profits  has critics in Congress calling for a reduction in
aid.  Domestic raw-sugar traded in  New York  slumped 0.6 percent
to 21.15 cents a pound today at 1:45 p.m. amid the biggest glut
since 2000. Production this year, expected to be the most since
1981, has helped boost estimated stockpiles to 20 percent of
annual consumption, the  highest ratio  in 12 years, according to
the USDA.  Traders expected a drop in beet plantings of as much as 7
percent, Craig Ruffolo, a vice president at McKeaney-Flavell, a
brokerage in Oakland,  California , said.  The USDA on March 13 said it’s considering “several
options” to support prices, including purchasing excess
sweetener, possibly for sale to ethanol plants, or restricting
imports to the minimum required by international treaty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  