-- Softbank, Sprint Pledge Not to Use Huawei, Lawmaker Says
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   W a s s e r m a n   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-03-28T16:58:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/softbank-sprint-pledge-not-to-use-huawei-lawmaker-says.html
Softbank Corp. (9984)  and  Sprint Nextel
Corp. (S)  told a U.S. lawmaker they won’t integrate equipment from
Chinese gear maker Huawei Technologies Co. into Sprint’s network
after they merge, the legislator said.  “I expect them to make the same assurances before any
approval of the deal” by U.S. agencies reviewing the proposed
$20 billion merger for national security implications,
Representative Mike Rogers, a Michigan Republican who leads the
House Intelligence Committee, said in an e-mailed statement.  Tokyo-based Softbank and Overland Park, Kansas-based
Sprint, the third-largest U.S. carrier, are trying to meet U.S.
concerns about potential electronic spying by  China .  The U.S. government should block acquisitions or mergers by
Huawei and  ZTE Corp. (000063) , China’s two largest phone-equipment
makers, Rogers’ committee said a report in October. It said the
companies’ equipment can provide an opening for Chinese
intelligence services to use U.S. telecommunications networks
for spying.  “I have met with Softbank and Sprint regarding this merger
and was assured they would not integrate Huawei in to the Sprint
network and would take mitigation efforts to replace Huawei
equipment in the Clearwire network,” Rogers said. Sprint owns a
majority share of its wireless partner  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)   Huawei Response  The deal has been reviewed by the U.S. Federal
Communications Commission, the Justice Department and an
interagency group called the Committee on Foreign Investment in
the U.S., or CFIUS, that checks for security implications of
foreign purchases of U.S. companies.  Huawei doesn’t have knowledge of the national-security
review, Bill Plummer, a U.S. spokesman, said in an interview.  “If government approval of the transaction is somehow
contingent on an agreement to restrict purchase of equipment
from any vendor based on the flag of heritage, then it is a sad
day for free and open global trade and it does nothing to secure
the network,” Plummer said. “Everyone is global and every
company faces the same cyber challenges.”  U.S. agencies previously have reached security agreements
in telecommunications mergers, most recently for the March 13
approval of  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s combination of its T-Mobile
USA Inc. unit with  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS) , based in
Richardson,  Texas . Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom agreed to tell
the U.S. what equipment it has and inform the government if new
vendors are used, according to documents released by the FCC.  Softbank buys base band units and antenna systems from
Huawei and ZTE for its fourth-generation mobile network in
 Japan . Alcatel-Lucent and Ericsson AB provide the core network.  Clearwire Gear  Clearwire uses gear from Huawei at the edge of its network,
and its core network is supplied by domestic vendors such as
Cisco Systems Inc. and  Ciena Corp. (CIEN) , John Saw, the company’s
chief technology officer, said in October. Clearwire is
“materially reducing” Huawei’s presence in its network that
delivers high-speed wireless service, Saw said.  John Taylor, a spokesman for Sprint’s Washington office,
declined to comment, as did Mark Wigfield, an FCC spokesman.
Dean Boyd, a spokesman for the Justice Department. Softbank
declined to comment, and Holly Shulman, a Treasury Department
spokeswoman, said the department doesn’t discuss CFIUS cases.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Wasserman in Washington at 
 ewasserman2@bloomberg.net ;
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  