-- South African February Trade Gap Narrows as Exports Surge
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2013-03-28T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/south-african-february-trade-gap-narrows-as-exports-surge.html
 South  Africa ’s trade deficit
narrowed in February from a record as exports of metal and other
commodities rebounded following a series of strikes.  The  shortfall  eased to 9.5 billion rand ($1 billion) last
month from 24.5 billion rand in January, the Pretoria-based
South African Revenue Service said today in an e-mailed
statement. The median estimate of 10 economists in a Bloomberg
survey was 12.5 billion rand.  South Africa’s trade balance is putting pressure on the
current account gap, which is near a four-year high, and
undermining the rand. The currency of Africa’s largest economy
slumped 8.5 percent against the dollar this year, the worst
performer of 16 major units tracked by Bloomberg.  The trade deficit in 2012 was more than six times larger
than a year before as slower global growth and mining strikes
curbed exports.  Exports climbed 17 percent to 62.3 billion rand in February
from the previous month, led by an 80 percent increase in
vehicle and aircraft shipments and a 26 percent gain in
precious, semi-precious stones and metals, the revenue agency
said. Shipments of mineral products, which includes coal and
iron ore, rose 3 percent.  Total imports dropped 7.7 percent to 71.8 billion rand in
the month, led by a 20 percent decline in prepared foods,
beverages and tobacco, the agency said. Machinery imports
dropped 15 percent.  The deficit on the  current account , the broadest measure of
trade in goods and services, will probably average 6.2 percent
of gross domestic product in the next three years, up from an
earlier estimate of 5.6 percent, the National Treasury said in
its Budget Review last month.  South Africa  relies mainly on
foreign investment in stocks and bonds to finance the shortfall,
inflows that have fluctuated as investors sold riskier,
emerging-market assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  