-- South Korea Announces Stimulus After Lowering Growth Outlook
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2013-03-28T07:14:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/south-korea-announces-new-stimulus-after-lowering-growth-outlook.html
South  Korea  announced it will
unveil a stimulus package in April to spur the  property market 
and revive the economy after cutting its growth forecast for the
second time in four months.  A supplementary budget and details of the measures to
encourage property sales will be released over time, the Finance
Ministry said in a statement in Sejong today. The economy will
expand 2.3 percent this year, down from a 3 percent growth
forecast made in December, it said.  The new forecast is more pessimistic than the central
bank’s outlook for 2.8 percent growth and compounds concern that
expansion in  Asia ’s fourth-largest economy will stall after
slowing to the weakest in three years. Facing a stagnant
property market and weaker yen, the  Bank of Korea  may come under
pressure to lower the benchmark  interest rate  next month.  “This is a major cut, and marks a shift from a government
that prioritized fiscal soundness to one that takes a more
realistic view of the economy that needs a policy boost,” Lee
Chul Hee, a Seoul-based economist at  Tongyang Securities Inc. (003470) ,
said by phone today. “The Bank of Korea will need to make a
strong case that the economic recovery is on track not to make
the interest-rate cut in April.”  Today’s revision was the second time the government has
lowered its growth forecast since President Park Geun Hye was
elected in December. The new forecast doesn’t factor in the
coming stimulus package, Choi Sang Mok, a director general at
the Finance Ministry, told reporters today.  Bonds Rise  South Korea’s three-year bonds rose, sending the yield to
2.47 percent, the lowest for the benchmark note in data compiled
by Bloomberg going back to 2000.  Park’s government prioritizes job growth and helping low-
income people while improving regulations for fair trade,
according to the statement. Measures to stabilize the foreign-
exchange market may include higher levies on banks that hold
debt in foreign currencies.  “We’re less confident about the pace of economic recovery
than we were last year,” Choi said. “There may be a setback in
 tax revenue , which isn’t good for economic growth. Economic
indicators across industrial production and the service sector
aren’t so positive.”  Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok in his March 22 inaugural
speech vowed to use “all possible policy measures” to boost an
economy that’s grown less than 1 percent from quarter to quarter
for seven periods. A weakening yen is a “problem” that is
flashing a red light for exports, Hyun said March 23.  Repurchase Rate  Earlier this month, Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo
and his board held the seven-day repurchase rate at 2.75 percent
after a 25 basis-point cut in October. The board will meet April
11 to consider revising its own economic outlook and decide the
benchmark interest rate. Seven out of 22 economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News  expected a 25 basis-point cut in the second
quarter.  The Bank of Korea’s board decided today to keep the ceiling
of cheap loans used to support small firms at 9 trillion won.
The  Finance Ministry  said in today’s statement that the central
bank needs to boost loan support.  “The Bank of Korea will cut the benchmark interest rate in
April and also cut the growth outlook,” Kim Hyeon Wook, a
Seoul-based economist at SK Research Institute and a former
adviser at the Bank of Korea, said in a phone interview.
“Governor Kim and his board will want to look as though they
are independent but the chance for a rate freeze is slim.”  Supplementary Budget  The government’s supplementary budget will include 14
trillion won ($12.6 billion) in spending, about 1 percent of
gross domestic product, Nomura International Ltd. economist Kwon
Young Sun said in a report yesterday. Each 10 trillion won of
extra spending will add 0.4 percentage point to GDP growth in
2013, he said.  South Korea ’s current-account surplus widened to $2.7
billion in February from a revised $2.3 billion in January, the
Bank of Korea said today.  The won fell 0.13 percent to 1,113.15 to the dollar at the
close in  Seoul  today after weakening 0.6 percent yesterday, the
biggest drop in nine days. South Korea’s Kospi index was little
changed at 1,993.53.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  