-- Switzerland Stocks Advance; SGS, Julius Baer Lead Gains
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2013-03-28T16:47:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/switzerland-stocks-advance-sgs-julius-baer-lead-gains.html
Swiss stocks  climbed, with the
benchmark index posting quarterly and monthly gains, as Cypriot
banks opened for the first time in nearly two weeks and German
retail sales unexpectedly rose.  SGS SA (SGSN) , the world’s largest product inspector, posted the
biggest increase on the  Swiss Market Index. (SMI)   Nestle (NESN)  SA, the
heaviest-weighted stock in the SMI, followed European food and
beverage companies higher.  The SMI advanced 0.4 percent to 7,813.67 at the close of
trading in Zurich, for a 2.9 percent monthly gain and a 15
percent quarterly increase. The broader Swiss Performance Index
climbed 0.5 percent today. The number of shares changing hands
in the SMI was 16 percent lower than the average of the past 30
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I think what’s helping us more than anything today is the
lack of disastrous news from Cyprus, and signs that, so far, a
run on the banks has been avoided,” said Alex Neil, head of
equity and derivatives trading at EFG Bank in Geneva. “It will
be important to see if the  capital controls  are maintained.”  Cyprus’s banks opened their doors today for the first time
since March 16, with new rules curbing access to cash preventing
an initial panic to withdraw deposits. The Central Bank of
Cyprus’s capital controls include a 300-euro ($383) daily limit
on withdrawals and restrictions on transfers to accounts outside
the country.  Retail sales in  Europe ’s largest economy gained 0.4 percent
last month from January, when they surged a revised 3 percent,
the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said. Economists in a
Bloomberg survey forecast a decline of 0.6 percent. German
unemployment unexpectedly rose in March, another report showed.  U.S. Growth  In the U.S., data released today showed the economy grew at
a faster pace than previously estimated in the fourth quarter,
reflecting a bigger gain in business spending and a smaller
 trade gap .  SGS climbed 1.6 percent to 2,328 Swiss francs, rebounding
after two days of losses.  Nestle, the world’s largest food company, gained 1.2
percent to 68.65 francs. A gauge of food and beverage shares
climbed the most of the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx Europe
600 Index.  Credit Suisse Group AG fell the most on the SMI, sliding
1.7 percent to 24.91 francs.  Switzerland ’s second-largest bank
agreed to sell British wealth manager JO Hambro Investment
Management Ltd. to a Bermudian investment firm for 50 million
pounds ($76 million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  