-- U.A.E. Central Bank Said to Agree to Raise Mortgage-Loan Limits
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-03-28T13:34:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/u-a-e-central-bank-said-to-agree-to-raise-mortgage-loan-limits.html
The United Arab Emirates central
bank agreed to raise the cap on  mortgage loans  from an
originally proposed 50 percent of a property’s value for
expatriates, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  The regulator gave preliminary approval to a proposal of
the  U.A.E. Banks Federation , which represents banks, at a
meeting with them yesterday, according to the person, who asked
not to be identified because the information hasn’t been made
public. The federation in January suggested that expatriates in
the U.A.E. be allowed to borrow as much as 75 percent of the
value of their first home, 60 percent for a second home and 50
percent for properties under construction. A call to the Abu
Dhabi-based central bank outside working hours wasn’t answered.  Arabic daily Al Khaleej reported the story earlier today.
The central bank in December had suggested a loan-to-value limit
of 50 percent for a first home and 40 percent for a second home
for expatriates. There were no caps on mortgages earlier.  Foreigners make up more than 80 percent of the population
of the U.A.E., which includes Dubai and  Abu Dhabi , according to
government estimates. Dubai first allowed foreigners to own real
estate in 2002, sparking a boom that attracted investors from
 India ,  Iran ,  Pakistan  and  Russia  seeking to bet on rising
prices. During the financial crisis, hundreds lost their jobs
and left the city, defaulting on payments.  The federation had also recommended a cap of 80 percent for
U.A.E. nationals for their first mortgage and 65 percent for
their second home. The central bank had proposed limits of 70
percent and 60 percent respectively for citizens.  Property prices in Dubai, which suffered one of the world’s
worst real estate crashes after the global credit crisis that
began in 2008, started to recover last year. Apartment and villa
rents in Dubai climbed by an average of 17 percent last year as
investors used the business hub to shield themselves from the
euro-zone crisis and the political upheaval known as the Arab
Spring, Asteco Property Management said in January. Villa sale
prices climbed an average 23 percent year-on-year and apartment
prices gained 14 percent, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  