-- U.K. Banks Seen Avoiding Share Sales After BOE Capital Review
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-03-28T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/u-k-banks-seen-avoiding-share-sales-after-boe-capital-review.html
U.K. banks including  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc  and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  may avoid the
need to sell new shares to bolster their balance sheets after
the  Bank of England  used more lenient rules than those advocated
by European regulators.  Lenders were yesterday told they need to raise 25 billion
pounds ($38 billion) of additional capital, of which they have
already laid out plans to cover about half. By targeting a core
Tier 1 capital ratio of 7 percent by the end of 2013, rather
than the 10 percent by 2019 required by the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision , firms don’t need to raise as much.
Government-owned RBS and Lloyds have already sold assets to help
bolster their balance sheets.  “They’ve chosen a core Tier 1 ratio that’s quite
generous,” said Gary Greenwood, an analyst at Shore Capital
Ltd. in Liverpool,  England . “The problem is they still need the
banks to lend, and the U.K. government doesn’t want to put more
money in. If these were all still shareholder-owned businesses
they’d be told to have rights offers.”  Britain’s lenders have been selling units and detailing
plans to bolster their businesses since the central bank said in
November it was concerned they hadn’t fully recognized future
loan losses and may be using inappropriate risk models to assess
how much capital they hold. BOE Governor Mervyn King said the
shortfall “is not an immediate threat to the banking system”
and won’t require additional  government investment  in banks. RBS
and Lloyds received a total of about 65.5 billion pounds of
taxpayer aid during 2008 and 2009.  Ratio Lowered  “The go-to capital ratio appears to have been lowered,”
Citigroup Inc. analysts including Andrew Coombs wrote in a note
to clients. The shortfall could have been “multiples” more than
25 billion pounds under a 10 percent threshold, Edward Firth, a
banking analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in  London  said.  Britain’s central bank said that expected loan losses could
exceed provisions by 30 billion pounds, while future fines and
conduct-related penalties could be 10 billion pounds more than
banks expected. It said lenders underestimated assets weighted
for risk by 170 billion pounds, leading to a 12 billion-pound
capital shortfall in that category.  The full impact of the three areas could deplete lenders’
capital by 52 billion pounds, less than the 60 billion-pound
estimate that emerged from the BOE’s November Financial
Stability Report. Some banks already have enough resources to
cover them, paring the shortfall to 25 billion pounds, the BOE
said yesterday. The capital deficit has already been cut about
half by measures banks have already agreed to take, according to
 Andrew Bailey , the U.K.’s chief banking supervisor. The BOE
itself didn’t identify or quantify the number of lenders that
need to raise capital.  RBS Shortfall  RBS’s shortfall is still about 6 billion pounds and Lloyds
about 3 billion pounds, the Financial Times reported, citing
unidentified people with knowledge of the discussions.  The central bank’s focus on loan losses could still hit RBS
and Lloyds the most because of their commercial real estate
holdings, while  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and RBS, with their investment-
banking units, would be most affected by the changes to risk
weights, said  Simon Maughan , an analyst at Olivetree Securities
Ltd. in London.  RBS fell 3.1 percent in London trading yesterday, the most
among U.K. banks, while Lloyds was biggest gainer, rising 2.2
percent. HSBC fell 0.1 percent and Barclays gained 0.2 percent.  Barclays, Britain’s second-largest bank by assets, said in
a statement yesterday it has a “clear plan” to reach its
capital target by 2015. RBS said in a separate statement it has
a “strong capital position.” Officials at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,
Lloyds and the Bank of England declined to comment.  Strongest Ratio  HSBC and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , the two British banks that
get most of their profit from  Asia , have the strongest core Tier
1 capital ratios under the Basel III rules at 9.8 percent and
10.7 percent respectively. Barclays has a ratio of 8.2 percent,
Lloyds 8.1 percent and RBS 7.7 percent.  A government-commissioned report led by Oxford academic
 John Vickers  recommended in September 2011 that U.K. banks have
a core Tier 1 ratio of at least 10 percent. The Basel III rules,
scheduled to be fully implemented globally by 2019, will set the
minimum core capital for banks at 4.5 percent of their assets,
weighted for risk.  So-called systemically important banks must maintain
capital ratios of between 8.5 percent and 10 percent under the
Basel rules. HSBC will have to hold 9.5 percent, Barclays 9
percent, RBS 8.5 percent, and Standard Chartered 8 percent.  Since the BOE asked the Financial Services Authority in
November to examine capital levels, banks have announced asset
sales and plans to issue contingent convertible notes to bolster
capital.  Stake Sold  “We expect capital issuance to come in the form of
contingent capital rather than direct equity,” Greenwood wrote
in a report to clients yesterday. “Banks may also need to push
through additional asset sales, both of which could be
moderately dilutive to earnings.”  Lloyds this month sold a stake in asset manager St. James’s
Place Plc, booking a 400 million-pound gain, while RBS said last
month it will sell its U.S. operation and shrink its securities
unit to bolster capital. Barclays sold about $3 billion of 10-
year contingent capital notes in November. It plans to sell
additional notes, which convert to equity in the event that
capital ratios fall below a set level, a person with knowledge
of the matter said yesterday.  The BOE announcement will “have a very limited impact on
the banks’ existing capital plans,” said  Ian Gordon , an analyst
at  Investec Plc (INVP)  in London. “Importantly, there is no trigger
for any fresh equity issuance.”  The Prudential Regulation Authority, which will take over
from the FSA next month, will assess banks’ capital adequacy and
may impose higher requirements on lenders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net 
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  