-- U.K. Services Grow 0.3% in January, Fastest Pace in Five Months
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-03-28T09:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/u-k-services-grow-0-3-in-january-fastest-pace-in-five-months.html
Britain’s  services industries 
expanded in January, indicating some strength in the economy at
the start of the first quarter as the U.K. fights to avoid an
unprecedented triple-dip recession.  Services, which account for about three quarters of the
economy, rose 0.3 percent from December, when they dropped 0.4
percent, the  Office for National Statistics  said in  London 
today. That’s the biggest increase since August. In the quarter
through January, services fell 0.2 percent from the previous
three months.  The growth in January was led by transport, storage and
communications, which rose 1.3 percent, as well as government
and business services. Distribution, hotels and restaurants
stagnated, partly held back by heavy snowfall across much of
Britain during the month.  In a separate release today, the statistics office said
output per worker fell 0.8 percent in the fourth quarter, while
output per hour declined 0.5 percent, a sixth consecutive
quarterly fall. Unit wage costs increased 0.5 percent on the
quarter and 2.4 percent from a year earlier.  Data yesterday showed disposable income fell in the fourth
quarter as  gross domestic product  dropped 0.3 percent,
underlining the pressure on the economy. Further cold weather
this month after the snow in January has increased concern of
another contraction. The initial estimate of first-quarter GDP
is due to be published on April 25.  From a year earlier, services rose 0.8 percent in January,
the statistics office said. In the three-month period, they were
up 0.9 percent on the year.  The ONS also published a report estimating the impact on
inflation from tax changes in Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s budget on March 20. The measures will add 0.14
percentage point to the one-month consumer-price inflation rate.
The 12-month rate will be lower by 0.12 percentage point,
because the impact of measures announced in the previous year’s
budget were larger, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  