-- U.K. Home Prices Stagnate as Nationwide Sees Uncertain Outlook
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-03-28T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/u-k-home-prices-stagnate-as-nationwide-sees-uncertain-outlook.html
U.K.  house prices  were little
changed in March, according to  Nationwide Building Society ,
which said the outlook is “unusually uncertain.”  The average cost of a home was 164,630 pounds ($249,000),
the Swindon, England-based customer-owned lender said today.
From a year earlier, prices increased 0.8 percent, the first
annual increase since February 2012.  A struggling economic recovery and accelerating inflation
have curbed housing demand, though a shortage of property for
sale has supported values. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George
Osborne  pledged 3.5 billion pounds on March 20 to help home
buyers, while the  Bank of England  is seeking to boost credit
with its Funding for Lending Scheme.  “The outlook for the housing market is unusually uncertain
at present, in part because the prospects for the wider economy
are unclear, but also as the impact of a number of policy
initiatives is hard to gauge,” said  Robert Gardner , chief
economist at Nationwide.  The report also showed that U.K. house prices increased 0.8
percent in the first quarter from the previous three months.
Values were up 0.2 percent from the same period a year earlier.
London led the annual gain, with prices rising 4.6 percent.  Hometrack Ltd. said this week that  U.K. home prices  rose
the most in three years this month, led by a surge in London,
where they increased 0.7 percent. Nationwide said the capital
has seen the greatest recovery in prices of any U.K. region
since the financial crisis struck. The average value in the
first quarter was 306,919 pounds, above the 2007 peak, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  