-- U.K. Stocks Little Changed as German Retail Sales Climb
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-03-28T09:22:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/u-k-stocks-little-changed-as-german-retail-sales-climb.html
U.K. stocks  were little changed,
with the  FTSE 100 (UKX)  Index heading for the biggest quarterly gain
since 2011, as better-than-estimated German retail sales offset
concern the euro-area debt crisis will deepen.  Johnson Matthey Plc (JMAT)  advanced 3.6 percent after saying it
bought  Sweden ’s Formox AB. A gauge of London-listed mining
companies fell 0.9 percent, led by Centamin Plc and Eurasian
Natural Resources Corp.  The FTSE 100 slipped 4.3 points, less than 0.1 percent, to
6,383.26 at 9:20 a.m. in London. The benchmark gauge has gained
8.3 percent this quarter as U.S. lawmakers agreed on a
compromise budget and reports on jobs and housing fueled
optimism the world’s biggest economy is recovering. The FTSE 100
is heading for a monthly gain of 0.4 percent.  The broader FTSE All-Share Index was little changed today,
while Ireland’s ISEQ Index gained 0.3 percent. The number of
shares changing hands in companies on the FTSE 100 was limited
before the Easter holiday in the U.K. and  Europe . Volume was 18
percent lower than the average of the past 30 days, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  In  Germany ,  retail sales  unexpectedly rose in February.
Sales, adjusted for inflation and seasonal swings, climbed 0.4
percent from January, when they gained a revised 3 percent, the
Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said. Economists in a
Bloomberg survey had forecast a 0.6 percent decline last month.  Italy’s Pier Luigi Bersani, who has been given the first
opportunity to form a coalition government after last month’s
inconclusive elections, will today report to President Giorgio
Napolitano with the results of his negotiations.  In Cyprus, banks will open for the first time in almost two
weeks, employing new capital-control rules that were the
condition for a bailout from international creditors. Banks will
open at midday and close at 6 p.m. local time, Yiangos
Dimitriou, head of the audit department at the Central Bank of
Cyprus, said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in  London  at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  