-- U.K. Should Abandon Executive Pay Benchmarks, Pension Group Says
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-03-28T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/u-k-should-abandon-executive-pay-benchmarks-pension-group-says.html
U.K. companies should abandon the
practice of setting executive pay against benchmarks because it
leads to an “upward spiral” in compensation, according to a
pension-fund adviser.  Directors’ pay is inflating, while profit increases are
muted or non-existent, the  Local Authority Pension Fund Forum ,
which represents funds with 115 billion pounds ($174 billion) of
assets, said in a report published today.  “A specific issue the forum has highlighted is the
unsustainable practice of providing new executives with pay
packages that are equal to, or greater than, that available to
their predecessors,” the group said in a statement. “This has
led to an upward spiral in executive pay resulting in ever-
greater pay inflation for top-level employees.”  Excessive employee compensation at U.K. banks is denting
public confidence in capitalism in the wake of the Libor
scandal, Simon Walker, director general of the Institute of
Directors, a management lobby group, said in a March 12 speech.
Investors protested against pay plans at companies including
 Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Aviva Plc (AV/) , UBS AG,  Inmarsat Plc (ISAT)  and  WPP Plc (WPP)  last
year amid investor concern about compensation.  Pay committees should consider setting the total
compensation of incoming executives below that of a predecessor
to reflect “the reality that, with any new job, there is a
period of learning and adjustment.”  Companies should also be more open about their hiring
decisions, consider a broader pool of candidates for executive
roles and publicly advertise directors’ jobs, the group said.  -- Editors: Jon Menon, Steve Bailey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  