-- U.S. Corporate Credit-Swaps Index Falls as Cyprus Banks Reopen
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-03-28T20:18:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/u-s-corporate-credit-swaps-index-falls-as-cyprus-banks-reopen.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk fell as Cyprus’s banks reopened for the first time in two
weeks and retail sales increased in  Germany , easing investor
concern that Europe’s debt crisis may worsen.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, declined the
most this week, decreasing 1.9 basis points to a mid-price of
90.6 basis points at 4 p.m. in  New York , according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  Cyprus’s banks opened today with new rules curbing access
to cash preventing an initial panic to withdraw deposits. German
retail sales, adjusted for inflation and seasonal swings, gained
0.4 percent in February, the Federal Statistics Office in
Wiesbaden said after economists forecast a 0.6 percent decline.
Signs of an improvement in  Europe ’s economy may reduce investor
concern that companies will struggle to repay debts.  “Good news: banks are open. Bad news: all the
restrictions,” Ronald Quigley, head of fixed-income syndicate
and primary sales at Mischler Financial Group Inc., said in a
telephone interview from  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “How much
Cyprus is going to impact the other peripheral sovereigns, we
don’t know. Only time will tell.”  GDP Growth  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  U.S. gross domestic product rose at a 0.4 percent annual
rate, up from a 0.1 percent prior estimate and following a 3.1
percent pace in the third quarter, revised Commerce Department
figures showed today in  Washington . Other reports showed more
Americans than forecast filed applications for  unemployment
benefits  last week, and U.S. business activity expanded in March
at a slower-than-expected pace.  “You’re going to have some speed bumps, but we’re trudging
along generally in the right direction,” Quigley said. “The
story going forward is about U.S. corporate earnings and
defining monetary policy.”  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index slid 4 basis points to 430.2 basis points, Bloomberg
prices show. Traders moved into a new version of the measure,
Series 20, yesterday.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-
rated, debt added 0.1 basis point to 503 basis points, Bloomberg
data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service and less than BBB- at  Standard &
Poor’s .  The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association
recommended that trading in U.S. fixed-income securities end at
2 p.m. New York time in advance of the Good Friday holiday and
stay closed tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  