-- U.S.-Backed ZeaChem Reduces Staff While Seeking Financing
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2013-03-28T21:44:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/u-s-backed-zeachem-reduces-staff-after-failing-to-get-financing.html
ZeaChem Inc., a closely held
producer of ethanol and chemicals from wood that received U.S.
backing, reduced staff while it seeks a bridge loan.  The company laid off an undisclosed number of employees at
its headquarters in Lakewood,  Colorado , a plant in  Oregon  and a
lab in  Menlo Park ,  California , after it failed to secure a
bridge loan “intended to carry ZeaChem into its next funding
round,” according to an e-mailed statement today. ZeaChem said
it intends the scale back in operations to be “a short-term
event.”  ZeaChem last year was offered a $232.5 million loan
guarantee from the U.S. Agriculture Department to build a
cellulosic-ethanol plant in Boardman, Oregon. Zeachem expected
to spend about $391 million on the plant. The company uses a
microorganism found in termites and other insects to process
five- and six-carbon sugars without producing carbon dioxide as
a byproduct.  “ZeaChem’s experienced management team is committed to the
top priority of quickly raising additional capital in order to
get employees back to work,” the company said, and wouldn’t say
how many employees are affected or how many people it employs.
“We cannot provide more details about personnel issues.”  A demonstration plant adjacent to the Boardman facility is
being funded in part by a $25 million Energy Department grant
and a $12 Agriculture Department grant, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The company said March 12 that ethanol
production began at the demonstration plant.  The staff reduction at the Boardman plant was first
reported today by Biofuels Digest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  