-- U.S. Clean-Gasoline Rule Opposed by Oil Group Said Near
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-03-29T16:31:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/u-s-clean-gasoline-rule-opposed-by-oil-group-said-near.html
The Environmental Protection Agency
proposed standards aimed at cutting the amount of sulfur in
gasoline by two-thirds by 2017, a move oil industry groups said
may increase the price at the pump.  “These common-sense cleaner fuels and cars standards are
another example of how we can protect the environment and public
health in an affordable and practical way,” EPA Acting
Administrator Bob Perciasepe said today in a statement.  The  standards , which also include emissions reductions for
passenger cars and trucks, will help prevent as many as 2,400
premature deaths annually by 2030, according to an EPA  fact
sheet . While the costs of the program would be about $3.4
billion by that year, the resulting health benefits would be
worth as much as $23 billion, according to the agency.  With the sulfur standards, the government is targeting a
gasoline ingredient that hurts the effectiveness of vehicles’
catalytic converters, allowing more smog-causing pollutants into
the air. Smog is linked to a variety of heart and lung ailments.  Comment Period  The EPA will offer the public and stakeholders a comment
period before it moves ahead with the so-called Tier 3 rule,
which has pitted the oil industry against environmental groups
and automakers.  The standards would cut the amount of sulfur in gasoline to
10 parts per million from 30, according to the agency. The
proposal would also reduce emissions of smog-forming volatile
organic compounds, nitrous oxides and particulate matter from
vehicles, the EPA said.  “These common-sense standards will save lives, save money
and clean up our air - all at a minimal cost,” Luke Tonachel,
senior vehicles analyst based in  New York  for the  Natural
Resources Defense Council , said in a statement.  Oil-industry officials and Republicans in Congress
criticized the proposal as expensive and onerous.  The standards would raise gasoline production costs by as
much as 9 cents a gallon, according to Bob Greco, a director at
the  American Petroleum Institute , a Washington-based trade
group. Other proposed EPA regulations, including a mandate for
ethanol use, would also boost production costs and would be
passed along to motorists, he said.  Regulation ‘Tsunami’  “There is a tsunami of federal regulations coming out of
the EPA that could put upward pressure on gasoline prices,”
Greco said in a statement.  The industry since 2004 has already reduced sulfur levels
in gasoline by 90 percent, and new rules will require an
additional $10 billion in infrastructure investment and $2.4
billion in annual operating costs, according to a statement
issued today by the American Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers,
a Washington-based industry group.  “The ignored consequences of Tier 3 include importing more
foreign energy, increasing our trade deficit, and reducing our
 energy security ,” Senator  David Vitter  of  Louisiana , the top
Republican on the Environment and Public Works Committee, said
in a statement.  The EPA said the standards would cost refineries less than
a penny per gallon of gasoline, on average. The proposed
standards, to be phased in between 2017 and 2025, will carry an
average cost of about $130 per vehicle in 2025, the agency said.  Automakers have said the proposal will put U.S. gasoline on
par with fuel sold in Europe and Asia.  “This is a big step forward that will help the U.S. catch
up to the cleaner fuels available in other industrialized
nations,”  Gloria Bergquist , a spokeswoman for the  Alliance of
Automobile Manufacturers , said in a statement. Members of the
Washington-based group include  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,  General Motors
Co. (GM)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  