-- Mubadala Said to Pay 45 Basis-Point Margin on $2 Billion Loan
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-03-28T14:15:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/mubadala-said-to-pay-45-basis-point-margin-on-2-billion-loan.html
Mubadala Development Co., a state-
owned  Abu Dhabi  investment company, plans to pay 45 basis points
above the benchmark rate on a $2 billion credit facility it’s
raising, according to two bankers familiar with the plan.  Interest on the three-year revolving loan may rise up to 75
basis points, or 0.75 percentage point, over the London
Interbank Offered Rate depending on the amount drawn, said the
bankers, who asked not to be identified because the information
is private. The money will be used to refinance an existing $2.5
billion three-year facility that expires in April, they said.  Mubadala, rated AA at Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings,
has asked banks to propose better terms than the 75 basis-point
margin it pays on the existing loan, Kelly Thomson, Mubadala’s
head of structured finance, said Feb. 5. Revolving credit loans
allow borrowers to tap and repay funds multiple times.  “Mubadala is currently in discussions with a number of
banks regarding the renewal of our corporate revolving credit
facility,” the company said in an e-mailed response to
questions from Bloomberg.  Mubadala, which has investments ranging from microchips to
aerospace, is controlled by the government of Abu Dhabi, the
capital of the  United Arab Emirates  and holder of 6 percent of
the world’s proven oil reserves.  U.A.E borrowing costs have dropped over the past year as
the economy recovers following a real estate crash that was
triggered by the 2008 global credit crisis. Abu Dhabi’s five-
year credit default swaps were 68 basis points yesterday, down
from 116 a year earlier, according to CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Co. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  