-- UN Arms Trade Pact Stalls as Iran, N. Korea, Syria Object
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2013-03-29T03:57:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/un-arms-trade-treaty-fails-as-iran-north-korea-syria-object.html
An international treaty regulating
the $70 billion global arms trade was sidetracked after failing
to get the unanimous support needed for adoption among more than
150 countries taking part in negotiations at the  United Nations .  Iran ,  North Korea  and  Syria  yesterday barred passage of
proposed standards to block illegal exports of conventional
weapons -- from small arms and missile launchers to tanks,
warships and attack helicopters. Absent a consensus among
countries at the treaty talks, the accord can be approved by a
two-thirds majority in the 193-member General Assembly.  Peter Woolcott, the Australian diplomat presiding over the
arms talks in New York, suspended the meeting for consultations
on how to proceed. After delegates reconvened, Iran, North Korea
and Syria repeated their objections.  “The treaty had been within reach,” UN Secretary-General
Ban Ki-Moon’s office said in a statement. “Given the importance
of the issues involved, the secretary general strongly hopes
that member states will continue exploring ways to bring the
treaty into being.”  Backers of the accord plan to seek a General Assembly vote
as early as next week to salvage the decades-long effort to
establish rules for cross-border arms sales.  “I am certain that an overwhelming majority of states will
vote in favor,” if the accord is presented to the General
Assembly next week, said Thomas Countryman, assistant secretary
of state for international security and nonproliferation, who
led the U.S. delegation to the talks. “I’m not certain whether
there will be a vote or not,” he said yesterday on a call with
reporters.  Iran’s Concerns  Mohammad Khazaee , Iran’s UN Ambassador, expressed his
continuing concerns. “Despite serious demands by many states,
the requirements of the inherent right of states to self-
defense, namely the right to acquire conventional weapons to
defend against aggression and preserve their territorial
integrity, has not been addressed,” he said.  Bashar Jaafari, Syria’s UN ambassador, objected that the
agreement didn’t allow exceptions for arms transfers in the case
of “crimes of aggression.” President Bashar al-Assad’s Syrian
regime, which has received arms from  Russia , is fighting a two-
year civil war that has killed 70,000 people.  Countryman said the treaty would help reduce worldwide
violence by cracking down on black-market arms sales. The U.S.
already has the highest standards in the world for regulating
weaponry and the treaty would bring the rest of the world closer
to meeting those standards, he said.  Levels Field  “It levels the playing field and gives American
manufacturers a better position in the world,” Countryman said.
He said that several delegations will ask the General Assembly
to consider the text of the proposed treaty on April 2.  “The  United States  regrets that it was not possible today
to reach consensus in this conference on an arms-trade treaty,”
Countryman said. “We look forward to this text being adopted in
the General Assembly in the very near future.”  In the U.S., the  National Rifle Association , a gun-rights
lobbying group, has said the UN rules would impinge on the
Constitution’s Second Amendment right to bear arms, though
domestic gun sales were excluded from the proposed treaty.  The accord also was criticized by more than half of the
 U.S. Senate , where a two-thirds majority would be needed for
ratification. Senators on March 23  voted  53-46 for a symbolic
measure opposing American participation in the weapons pact.  Treaty Goals  The draft treaty, hammered out after more than 10 years of
talks, seeks to prevent cross-border shipments of weapons that
could enable  war crimes , terrorism or human-rights violations
and fuel conflicts in  Africa  and the  Middle East . Governments
adopting the standards would have to report and verify sales
abroad to a UN body.  The treaty’s final draft didn’t fully satisfy human-rights
groups that pointed to potential loopholes, including a clause
exempting weapons transfers made as part of bilateral defense
agreements.  “While there are still deficiencies,” the treaty “has
the potential to provide significant human-rights protection and
curb armed conflict and violence if all governments demonstrate
the political will to implement it properly and develop it in
the future,” Brian Wood,  Amnesty International ’s head of  arms
control  and human rights, said yesterday in a statement.  After years of discussions about a multilateral
international arms sales agreement, it wasn’t until 2009, after
President  Barack Obama  took office, that the U.S. reversed long-
standing opposition to a treaty, which would have little impact
without endorsement by the largest global arms exporter.  Parts Omitted  To attract U.S. backing, ammunition, parts and components
were left out of the broad scope of the draft treaty. Instead,
countries would be required to “maintain a national control
system to regulate” those exports.  Secretary of State  John Kerry  said in a March 15 statement
that the U.S. “will not support any treaty that would be
inconsistent with U.S. law and the rights of American citizens
under our Constitution.”  Outlining Iran’s objections, Khazaee said the draft treaty
accommodated the U.S. while neglecting issues of concern to
other countries.  “While the right of individuals to own and use guns has
been protected in the current text to meet the constitutional
requirements of only one state, the inalienable right to self-
determination of peoples under foreign occupation or alien and
colonial domination has completely been ignored, just to appease
that state and its staunch ally in the Middle East,” he said.  The five veto-wielding members of the UN Security Council -
-  China ,  France , Russia, the U.K. and the U.S. -- account for 60
percent of the global arms trade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Peter S. Green in  New York  at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  