-- Hungary Central Bank Cuts Budget Forecast Under Matolcsy
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-03-28T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/hungary-central-bank-cuts-budget-forecast-under-matolcsy.html
Hungary ’s central bank, under the
direction of new president Gyorgy Matolcsy, reduced its  budget
deficit  forecast to below the European Union limit, aligning it
with government plans and putting it at odds with the European
Commission and the  International Monetary Fund .  The fiscal gap will amount to 2.9 percent of gross domestic
product this year and next, according to the Magyar Nemzeti
Bank’s quarterly forecasts published today. The previous
forecast was 3 percent for 2013 and 3.8 percent for 2014.  Matolcsy switched to the central bank from the helm of the
 Economy Ministry , where he argued against EU and IMF
assessments, which said the country’s budget -- based on
extraordinary corporate taxes that damaged investment, lending and
growth -- was unsustainable. Days before taking over the MNB,
Matolcsy called a central bank report “immoral” and
“unethical,” raising concern about the independence of the
institution under his leadership.  “The central bank’s budget deficit forecast turned out to
be overly pessimistic for last year so we made some changes to
the assumptions, which will bring it closer to reality in the
future,” Daniel Palotai, the bank’s new chief economist, told
reporters today.  Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s priorities for this
include ending a recession and exiting the EU’s excessive-
deficit procedure for budget offenders, which would remove the
threat of cuts in the bloc’s funding a year before elections.  The European Commission forecast a budget gap of 3.4
percent of GDP for Hungary for both 2013 and 2014. The IMF, in
October of last year, forecast a shortfall at 3.7 percent in
2013 and 3.8 percent in 2014, according to comparisons published
in today’s central bank report.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank reduced the  two-week deposit rate 
by a quarter-point to 5 percent on March 26, trimming it for an
eighth month and matching the forecast of 25 of 29 economists in
a Bloomberg survey. The cuts can continue if market confidence
improves, policy makers said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  