-- Hungary Buys EON Units as Orban Vies to Deliver on Price Cut Vow
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-03-28T15:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/hungary-buys-eon-units-as-orban-vies-to-deliver-on-price-cut-vow.html
Hungary bought back German utility
EON SE’s domestic natural-gas businesses as Prime Minister
 Viktor Orban  seeks to strengthen the state’s hold on strategic
assets and deliver on a pledge to slash back utility prices.  The government paid about 870 million euros ($1.1 billion)
for EON’s gas storage units and gas distribution business,
including liabilities, state-owned energy company MVM Zrt. and
EON said in statements today. The deal is the largest state
transaction since Hungary repurchased OAO Surgutneftegas’s 21.2
percent stake in refiner  Mol Nyrt. (MOL)  for $2.65 billion in 2010.  Orban is reversing earlier privatizations as he seeks to
boost his Cabinet’s role in industries considered strategically
important. The government is imposing mandatory household
utility price cuts as Orban gears up for elections next year.  “The sale of our gas companies in  Hungary  further sharpens
the focus of our business in  Europe ,”  EON Chief Financial
Officer Marcus Schenck said in the statement.  The final price depends on the value of gas inventories on
the closing day of the transaction, which is expected in the
second half of 2013, pending approval from authorities.  Under the deal, all EON’s gas assets will be transferred to
MVM, including gas inventories, according to the statement. MVM
intends to finance the transaction from existing funds and new
external financing, it said. The German company bought the
Hungarian business from Mol in 2004 for 2.1 billion euros.  Raba, Takarekbank  Since coming to power in 2010, Orban gained control of car
parts maker Raba Nyrt. and savings bank Takarekbank Zrt., and
purchased a stake in Budapest waterworks from  Suez Environnement
SA (SEV)  and RWE Aqua GmbH.  EON is currently executing a disposal program with more
than 13 billion euros of the targeted 15 billion euros having
already been divested, Chief Executive Officer Johannes Teyssen
said on Nov. 13.  The company plans to raise more than 2 billion euros in the
next two years selling regional units and a stake in nuclear-
fuel processing business Urenco to help cut debt and provide
capital for expansion in  emerging markets  including Brazil and
 Turkey .  The government last week signed a declaration of intent to
acquire a majority stake in the nation’s strategic natural-gas
storage facility from Mol for an undisclosed price.  The EON transaction will also put the government in charge
of discussing Hungary’s long-term gas purchase contract with
 Russia ’s OAO Gazprom. Around 80 percent of Hungary’s annual gas
consumption is covered by imports, largely from Russia.  Storage Capacity  EON had a storage capacity of 4.2 billion cubic meters in
Hungary, which it now sold to the state, the release said.  Hungary, the most-indebted eastern member of the European
Union, cut welfare spending, nationalized private pension fund
assets and levied extraordinary industry taxes to narrow its
budget  deficit  below an EU limit of 3 percent of economic
output. The measures helped push the economy into its second
recession in four years.  The forint has weakened 2.7 percent this month, the most
among more than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, as Standards & Poor’s cut Hungary’s credit rating
outlook to negative, citing concern the government’s
“interventionist” policies may hurt growth and credibility.  The currency weakened 0.3 percent to at 304.61 per euro by
4 p.m. in Budapest.  The government and  Germany ’s  RWE AG (RWE)  may enter talks on
Hungary buying RWE’s majority stake in electricity group Elmu-
Emasz, news website Hirado.hu said today. EON may also be
interested in selling its Hungarian electricity facilities to
the state, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  