-- UPS’s Davis Nears Typical CEO Tenure as Kuehn Seen Next
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2013-03-28T20:12:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/ups-s-davis-nears-typical-ceo-tenure-as-kuehn-seen-next.html
Since founder  Jim Casey  left  United
Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  after more than five decades in charge, the
company’s chief executive officers have served for an average of
5 1/2 years. Scott Davis reaches that milestone in June.  That means a leadership change is probably approaching at
the world’s largest package-delivery operator, according to
 Kevin Sterling  of BB&T  Capital Markets  and other analysts. A new
CEO almost certainly will come from within, as have all the
previous chiefs, Sterling said.  Transitions since Casey’s 1962 exit have earned UPS a
reputation for stability in a situation yet to be faced by  FedEx
Corp. (FDX) , which  Fred Smith  has led since starting the carrier in
1971. UPS promoted Davis, 61, from chief financial officer and
current CFO Kurt Kuehn is the likeliest to succeed him, said
Sterling and  David Campbell  of Thompson Davis & Co.  “They’re always looking at candidates and everyone is
cross-trained and they can do each other’s jobs,” said Jeff Sonnenfeld, a senior associate dean at the Yale University
School of Management who has known every CEO at UPS since the
1970s. “This succession process started even before Scott was
named CEO. And the same for the next CEO.”  Davis has led Atlanta-based UPS to a return of 21 percent
since taking charge,  compared  with 10.1 percent at FedEx and 6.9
percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. UPS climbed 0.6
percent to $85.90 at the close of  New York  trading today.  Crisis Element  “At so many companies these days, succession has an
element of crisis, but it never has at UPS and probably never
will,” said Sonnenfeld, who’s based in  New Haven ,  Connecticut .  Among the signals that the CEO is considering retirement is
his inclusion on the past two earnings conference calls of
executives whom analysts have identified as potential
successors, such as Alan Gershenhorn, the sales chief, and U.S.
President Myron Gray.  Every other earnings call since Davis became CEO in January
2008 was limited to him, CFO Kuehn and the head of investor
relations.  “You can almost read it like it’s an audition,” said BB&T
Capital Markets’ Sterling, who’s based in Richmond,  Virginia ,
and  recommends  buying the shares.  Davis has navigated the global financial crisis and the
5.16 billion-euro ($6.59 billion) bid for  TNT Express NV (TNTE)  that
collapsed in January. Mapping a growth strategy in the deal’s
aftermath is among the challenges his successor will inherit.  Identified Early  UPS declined to make its executives available to comment
for this article.  “UPS is disciplined and deliberate in its succession
planning and the development of its leadership, including when
and how senior leadership changes are made,” said Malcolm Berkley, a spokesman.  It’s premature to presume when succession will happen, or
that there’s a targeted length of service UPS tries to achieve,
he said. The board routinely reviews succession plans to ensure
candidates are identified early and given the opportunity to
demonstrate their skills, Berkley said.  Casey headed UPS for 55 years after its founding in  Seattle 
in 1907 as American Messenger Co. The average tenure for the
eight former CEOs since he stepped down in 1962 has been five
years and six months, according to data provided by UPS and
compiled by Bloomberg.  Average Tenure  James Kelly, who was CEO when the company went public in
1999, served exactly five years before leaving in December 2001.
His successor, Michael Eskew, held the post for six years,
leaving in December 2007. Before that, the longest-serving CEO
after Casey was George Smith, who held the job for almost 10
years and stepped down in February 1972.  At FedEx, Smith said in September 2010 that he “almost
certainly” would leave within five years. In 2012, the 68-year-
old founder, chairman, CEO and president said he’s “not
planning on going anyplace” imminently.  UPS’s Kuehn, 58, started as a driver 3 1/2 decades ago and
was senior vice president of global sales and marketing before
being elevated to CFO.  That promotion allowed Gershenhorn to take Kuehn’s old job.
Gershenhorn, 54, and Gray, 55, also began their careers with UPS
in the late 1970s as part-time package handlers.  Wall Street  Wall Street  has known Kuehn for about 15 years, since he
was UPS’s first vice president of  investor relations , a role he
was holding when the company went public in 1999.  Kuehn, pronounced KEW-in, attended Yale, received a
master’s in business administration from the  University of Miami 
and is a graduate of the Advanced Management Program of the
Wharton School of Business at the  University of Pennsylvania ,
according to a biography on UPS’s website.  He sits on the boards of  NCR Corp. (NCR) , the Metro Atlanta
Chamber of Commerce, the Woodruff Arts Center and the Foundation
for Independent Higher Education.  If UPS follows its historical pattern, a new successor will
be named within 12 months.  Kuehn has had “years of experience, and he’s probably the
next guy to move up,” said Campbell, who recommends buying the
stock.  Davis will probably remain CEO until a new contract with
the Teamsters union is completed, Sterling said. The current
contract expires in July, and Davis said in January he hopes for
an early conclusion to negotiations.  First Outsider  The departure of Eskew, Davis’s predecessor, was announced
just two weeks after the completion of a Teamsters’ contract in
2007 -- 10 months before the existing agreement expired. Davis
was considered UPS’s first outsider when he was promoted,
although he had worked at the company for 20 years at the time.
Before that, he was CEO of an Oregon-based technology company
called II Morrow that UPS bought in 1986.  “By the end of this year is probably the time” for a new
CEO, said Campbell.  Indeed, the three CEOs before Davis all left at the end of
calendar years, and their successors took over on New Year’s
Day.  UPS is so consistent and reliable with succession planning
that most executives look “shockingly young” when they retire,
often around age 60, said Yale’s Sonnenfeld.  “They start so early and retire relatively early and
there’s this unusual quality in these guys when they retire, a
Dorian Gray thing,” Sonnenfeld said, referring to the Oscar
Wilde character who doesn’t age.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  