-- Verizon Pension Plan Members Win Right to Sue as Group
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-03-29T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/verizon-pension-plan-members-can-sue-as-group-over-transfer-1-.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ’s
pension beneficiaries can sue the company as a group over its
transfer of $8.5 billion in plan obligations to Prudential
Insurance Co. of America, a federal judge in  Texas  ruled.  The lawsuit on behalf of 41,000 people affected by the
transfer can proceed as a class action on claims that the
transaction violated federal law establishing standards for
private pension plans, U.S. District Judge Sidney Fitzwater in
 Dallas  said in an order yesterday.  Another 50,000 plan participants whose benefit payment
obligations weren’t transferred to Prudential can also sue as a
group, Fitzwater said. Common questions of law for the group
include whether plan assets were used to pay costs that Verizon
should have paid, he said.  Class certification provides leverage to plaintiffs in
financing the lawsuit and negotiating a settlement.
Certification is granted when judges find that claims of
plaintiffs in a group contain common legal issues and individual
lawsuits aren’t practical. Fitzwater didn’t rule on the merits
of the case.  The Verizon transfer, under which a retired managers’ plan
would be converted to an annuity, would strip participants of
the protections of federal law and cause irreparable harm, the
plaintiffs said in lawsuit filed Nov. 27.  Verizon, the second-largest U.S. phone company, said on
Oct. 17 that it planned to shift about one-fourth of its pension
obligations to Prudential to remove risk from its balance sheet.
The New York-based company has said the beneficiaries’ lawsuit
is without merit. Fitzwater in December refused to block the
transfer.  Ray McConville, a Verizon spokesman, declined to comment on
yesterday’s order.  The case is Lee v. Verizon Communications Inc., 12-cv-4834,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  