-- Wage Rates for Laborers Complicating Immigration Rewrite
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2013-03-28T17:12:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/wage-rates-for-laborers-complicating-immigration-rewrite.html
The AFL-CIO is seeking to exempt
industries with high unemployment rates such as construction
from a new worker-visa program that is complicating bipartisan
talks on a rewrite of the nation’s immigration laws.  The largest federation of U.S. labor unions and the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce, which have tentatively agreed to an annual
cap of 200,000 U.S. visas under a new program, are at odds over
how wage rates for these workers should be determined.  AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka said in an interview taped
yesterday for C-SPAN’s “Newsmakers” program that the labor
federation wants some higher-skilled laborers to be exempt from
any new program until the jobless rate improves. In February,
unemployment in the construction industry was 15.7 percent,
according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.  “Until the unemployment rate gets down to a certain level
you don’t bring them in,” Trumka said in the C-SPAN interview,
airing this weekend. “Those are skilled workers,” he said.
“You can’t just bring people in off the street and pay them, as
was proposed, 25 percent of market value.”  While the AFL-CIO says it will oppose any new visa plan
that would decrease wages for U.S. workers, business
representatives say the labor group is demanding wage rates that
are higher than those paid to U.S. workers performing the same
job. After the C-SPAN taping, Trumka said in an interview that
the labor group and the chamber have been in close contact on
the issue and that he is hopeful it will be resolved soon.  ‘90 Percent’  Yesterday,  New York  Senator Charles Schumer said a
bipartisan Senate group of eight lawmakers is “90 percent”
finished with its draft legislation. “We have a few little
problems to work on,” he said.  The Senate group is planning to unveil the legislation,
based on principles it released in late January, during the week
of April 8. Schumer, a Democrat, said yesterday that the group
was “on track” to meet that deadline.  President  Barack Obama , who has called overhauling the
nation’s immigration system the top legislative priority of his
second term, said yesterday he is confident that an immigration
bill will pass in the next several months.  “Labor and businesses may not always agree exactly on how
to do this, but this is a resolvable issue,” the president said
in an interview with Spanish-language station Telemundo.  Still, wary of undermining talks with Republicans, Obama
has taken a back seat in the negotiations. Rather than advocate
for specific proposals, he has spoken privately to lawmakers in
the group and sent aides to provide technical support.  Construction Roadblock  The toughest issue to resolve in the negotiations will be
construction, said Geoff Burr, vice president of federal affairs
for Associated Builders and Contractors. The AFL-CIO is
demanding that some immigrant construction workers be paid from
40 percent to 60 percent more than what similarly qualified U.S.
workers are paid, Burr said, a claim the labor group disputes.  “While the unions say publicly they want a guest-worker
program, their actions and their demands make clear that the
only program they’d support is one employers would never use,”
Burr said.  Trumka said there was “not a shred of evidence” to
support that statement, adding, “We have initiated a
presidential-style campaign to get this done.”  All Industries  In the interview, Trumka said the AFL-CIO proposed last
week that the Senate legislation include a requirement that the
U.S. issue visas across all industries only at a rate that won’t
hurt U.S. wages or benefits. The dispute is over what method
should be used to determine these wages and what unemployment
rate should trigger additional visas, Trumka said.  Under the AFL-CIO’s proposal, the Labor Department would
determine what that level should be. The Chamber of Commerce
wants wages to be set under a four-tiered system based on
workers’ experience and skills.  The first level of that system would be equivalent to 25
percent of the market rate, or poverty-level  wages , Trumka said.
“It relegates those newcomers to a life of poverty,” he said.
“The second thing it could do is drag down wages for American
workers and benefits. Nobody wants that.”  For example, a construction worker paid at a first-level
rate would receive an hourly wage of $9.05, or $18,820 a year,
according to a chart based on BLS data. That compares to the
current federal hourly minimum wage of $7.25. Boosting the rate
to a level three, as the AFL-CIO wants, would establish a
minimum hourly rate of $14.30, or about $29,730 a year. The
current federal poverty rate for a family of four is $23,550.  U.S. Chamber  The U.S. Chamber, the nation’s largest business lobby, says
the four-tiered system is based on documented wage rates across
multiple industries tabulated by the Labor Department. It says
the idea that immigrant workers would be paid below the current
market rate is false.  “It is simply untrue that the business community is
seeking to pay foreign workers anything other than what American
workers receive,” said Randy Johnson, the chamber’s senior vice
president of labor, immigration and employee benefits. “The
unions have jeopardized the entire immigration reform effort.”  Still, Johnson said the group is hopeful a deal can be
reached on immigration legislation.  Small Business  Demands from  small-business  groups to pay immigrant workers
at a lower rate than prevailing wages may be a bigger impediment
to an agreement than the chamber, which represents larger
companies, according to a person familiar with the talks who
asked to not be identified in describing the deliberations.  Concerns over a guest-worker visa program helped scuttle a
2007 immigration overhaul effort in Congress.  Another point of discussion in the senators’ talks is
meeting a Republican demand that creation of a path to
citizenship for immigrants in the U.S. illegally be contingent
upon measurable increases in border security.  Schumer and fellow Senate Democrat Michael Bennet of
Colorado joined Republicans John McCain and Jeff Flake, both of
 Arizona , for a tour of the Arizona border with  Mexico  yesterday.
After the tour, Schumer said he had deepened his understanding
of the challenges in securing the U.S. border, without providing
details.  The group of eight senators, which includes McCain and
Flake, is finalizing a bill that would allow the 11 million
illegal immigrants now estimated to be living in the U.S. the
ability to achieve full citizenship in 13 years.  That includes a 10-year wait for a green card and three
more years to reach citizenship. The process currently takes
about 15 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  