-- Wells Fargo Beats Rivals to Oil-Boom Deposits, Study Says
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-03-28T16:59:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/wells-fargo-beats-rivals-to-oil-boom-deposits-study-says.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the bank with
the stage coach  logo , is the only U.S. lender among the four
largest to gain deposits in some Northern Plains states as
customers flood banks with cash from an energy boom.  North Dakota , Iowa,  Montana ,  South Dakota  and  Nebraska  were
among the 10 states that saw federally insured deposits grow the
fastest in the five years through 2012, according to research by
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Deposits at Wells Fargo branches
across those states increased more than at other lenders while
competitors such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  didn’t compete or lagged behind.  Booming oil production and the fledgling fracking economy
have propelled economic growth and attracted investors,
developers and job hunters to the U.S. Northern Plains. As the
region’s economy expands, lenders that built a presence there
may continue to see a pick-up in deposits, Bernstein said.  “Banks located in states that are seeing fast growth are
in a good position to benefit,” said Kevin St. Pierre, a
Bernstein analyst and the report’s lead author. “With the
economy moving further from the crisis, a bank’s ability to
gather deposits will matter more and more for its earnings and
its stock price.”  Deposits over the past five years for all banks backed by
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. grew 9 percent in North
Dakota, 4.4 percent in Iowa, 4.6 percent in Montana, 5 percent
in South Dakota and 4.8 percent in Nebraska, according to data
compiled by Bernstein. Wells Fargo’s deposits rose 9.3 percent
in North Dakota, 5.9 percent in Montana, 5.2 percent in Iowa,
5.7 percent in South Dakota and 6 percent in Nebraska, the data
show.  Corporate Deposits  Wells Fargo, led by Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf ,
59, had the most deposits in all five states among the banks
analyzed, according to Bernstein’s data. The San Francisco-based
lender held 10 percent of deposits in North Dakota, 12 percent
in Montana, 8.3 percent in Iowa, 7.3 percent in Nebraska and 15
percent in South Dakota, the data show.  The Bernstein analysts excluded branches with more than
$500 million in deposits to prevent the data from being skewed
by banks that place large corporate deposits in certain
locations, St. Pierre said in an e-mail.  U.S. oil production grew last year at the fastest pace in
at least six decades as horizontal drilling and hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking, unlocked crude trapped in formations
such as North Dakota’s Bakken shale formation. The boom helped
drive unemployment rates in North Dakota, South Dakota,
Nebraska, Iowa and Montana to levels  lower  than the national
average of  7.9 percent  in January, according to the Labor
Department.  Cash Influx  The oil-fueled boom has put North Dakota at the top of the
Bloomberg economic health-data index for its increasing
employment rates, personal income and  tax revenue .  As the  labor force  expanded, cash poured into the Northern
Plains. Total deposits at branches with less than $500 million
in the five states grew to $158.5 billion in 2012 from $138.2
billion in 2009 and $123.5 billion in 2007, according to data
provided by Bernstein. Total deposits in those states comprised
3.3 percent of all U.S. deposits last year.  The fracking economy has also given community lenders a
lift. Bank deposits in the Bakken region, which stretches from
central North Dakota to the northeastern corner of Montana,
soared 15 percent last year, to $3.9 billion, after rising 27
percent in 2011, according to preliminary data from the Federal
Reserve Bank of  Minneapolis .  Other Competitors  Wells Fargo faces little competition from rivals such as
JPMorgan, the  biggest U.S. bank  by assets, which had no deposits
across the five states during the five-year period, according to
the data.  Iowa  deposits at Bank of America, the second-biggest
lender, rose by 1.7 percent to $311 million at the end of 2012,
compared with the 4.4 percent average increase for banks in the
state. Bank of America doesn’t compete for deposits in the other
four states, Bernstein’s data show.  “Wells Fargo has been serving customers and small
businesses in these states and communities for decades,”
Richele Messick, a spokeswoman for the lender, said in an e-
mailed statement. “Our success is fundamentally tied to the
success of our customers, and the confidence that their money is
safe and secure.”  Spokeswomen for New York-based JPMorgan and Bank of
America, based in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , declined to
comment.  Shutting Branches  Citigroup Inc., the third-biggest  U.S. bank , had $351
million of deposits in South Dakota and none in the other four
states, the data show. The New York-based lender, which is
shutting branches and firing staff, is focused on “the top 14
urban markets” in the U.S., said Catherine Pulley, a
spokeswoman.  U.S. Bancorp, the seventh-biggest by assets, held 7 percent
of deposits in North Dakota and Montana, with $1.39 billion and
$1.2 billion, respectively, according to the data.  “We’ve seen growth in every category, in lending and
deposits,” Barry Martin, president of U.S. Bancorp’s community
banking division, said in a phone interview. “The energy boom
has obviously been one of the larger factors, but also, the
strong agriculture economy has been a major factor.”  Regions Financial Corp. (RF) , based in Birmingham,  Alabama , saw
its Iowa deposits drop by 7 percent over the past five years.
 Evelyn Mitchell , a Regions spokeswoman, declined to comment.  While deposits rose at Wells Fargo, the lender had fewer
Northern Plains branches last year than in 2007 as the total
fell 4.2 percent in North Dakota, 0.9 percent in Montana, 1.7
percent in Iowa, 2.1 percent in Nebraska and 2.4 percent in
South Dakota, according to Bernstein.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in  New York  at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  