-- Wheat Climbs for a Third Day as Cold Weather Threatens Harvests
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-03-28T14:22:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/wheat-climbs-for-a-third-day-as-cold-weather-threatens-harvests.html
Wheat rose for a third day in
Chicago, narrowing this quarter’s drop, as frost may have
damaged the U.S. winter crop and as cold weather in Europe slows
plant development there, threating to lower yields.  Freezing conditions in the U.S. southern Great Plains this
week may have damaged growing wheat, forecaster DTN wrote
yesterday. U.S. output, including the winter crop, will fall 7.4
percent to 2.1 billion bushels in the year beginning June 1, the
 U.S. Department of Agriculture  said Feb. 22. The country is the
world’s biggest exporter of the grain.  “Talk that the recent cold snap in the U.S. southern
Plains will cut yield potential supported prices,”  Luke Mathews , a commodity strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia (CBA) , wrote in a report today.  Wheat for delivery in May added 0.2 percent to $7.3825 a
bushel by 9:01 a.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade, paring a
climb of as much as 0.7 percent. Prices are down 5.1 percent
this quarter and up 3.4 percent for March. The grain yesterday
touched $7.4075, the highest level for a most-active contract
since Feb. 21.  Winter-grain growth in northern  France , the European
Union’s largest producer, is delayed due to late planting
followed by a cold spring, with satellite data indicating a two-
week delay, the EU’s crop-monitoring unit said this week.  Barley, Rapeseed  “The cold weather conditions continue to delay the
vegetative state of the winter crops such as wheat, barley and
rapeseed, mainly in western  Europe  and  England ,” Paris-based
farm adviser Agritel wrote in a market comment today. “There
has to be a clear improvement of the conditions in the coming
weeks to avoid a yield loss.”  Milling wheat for delivery in May traded on NYSE Liffe in
Paris slipped 0.4 percent to 245.75 euros ($315.27) a metric ton
after three days of gains.  Corn for delivery in May fell 0.2 percent to $7.34 a bushel
in Chicago on volume that was 15 percent below the 100-day
average for that time of day. Futures are set for a 5.1 percent
advance this quarter. Soybeans for the same delivery month
dropped 0.2 percent to $14.5075 a bushel, heading for a 3
percent quarterly gain.  Chicago  floor trading and the Paris market will be closed
tomorrow for Good Friday. NYSE Liffe also will be shut April 1
for Easter Monday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  