-- Workers Strike Over Pay at Hong Kong Port Backed by Li Ka-shing
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-03-28T09:32:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/workers-strike-over-pay-at-hong-kong-port-backed-by-li-ka-shing.html
More than 100 workers at Hongkong
International Terminals Ltd., backed by billionaire Li Ka-
shing’s  port operator , are striking to demand about a 20 percent
pay increase amid higher inflation.  Dock workers, who are staging a sit-in, want hourly wages
to rise by HK$12.50 ($1.61), Ho Wai-hong, a representative of
the Union of  Hong Kong  Dockers, said today by phone. The staff
are employed by contractors, said Hongkong International
Terminals Managing Director Gerry Yim.  “We are not in a position to negotiate with the workers
about how much their employers pay them,” Yim said, though
Hongkong International Terminals has asked contractors to give a
5 percent pay increase this year. “The irresponsible action
today by some of the protesters will in the long run hurt Hong
Kong’s status as an transport and logistic center.”  The rising cost of  consumer goods  and record home prices in
the former British colony are spurring discontent as the city’s
wealth gap widens to the worst since records were kept in 1971.
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. in December averted labor
disruptions threatened by its flight attendants union after
disagreements on wage increases and working conditions.  Hongkong International Terminals , part of Singapore-listed
 Hutchison Port Holdings Trust (HPHT) , operates 12 berths at four
terminals in the Chinese city and two through a venture with
partner  Cosco Pacific Ltd. (1199)  Hong Kong has nine terminals.  The protesters are directing their demands at the
contractors, and Hongkong International Terminals has asked them
to pay “fair wages,” Yim said at a press conference.  Consumer prices rose 4.4 percent in February from a year
earlier, beating the 4 percent median estimate of 12 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vipin V. Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net  