-- Wynn Resorts Says Chief Operating Officer Schorr to Retire
-- B y   B e n   L i v e s e y   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2013-03-28T14:09:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/wynn-resorts-says-chief-operating-officer-schorr-to-retire-1-.html
Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) , the casino
operator run by billionaire Steve Wynn, said Chief Operating
Officer Marc Schorr will retire effective June 1.  Wynn Resorts, which didn’t give specific reasons for
Schorr’s departure, said that he told the company of his
intention to retire on March 27 and that an agreement was
reached that day on departure terms. Schorr also will resign all
other positions at the company and its subsidiaries or
affiliates, the company said in a filing today.  For a five-year period starting June 1, Schorr will
cooperate and be available to consult and assist on matters in
which he was involved before his resignation. As part of his
resignation terms, Schorr and his dependents will receive health
benefits until June 1, 2018, and 200,000 unvested shares granted
to him under a restricted stock agreement, and associated
accrued dividends, will vest and be payable as of May 31.  Wynn Resorts said earlier this month that its profit may be
reduced if former director Kazuo Okada wins a lawsuit
challenging the company’s purchase of his shares. Okada, the
Japanese billionaire who helped found Wynn Resorts and who
resigned last month, plans to continue his fight with Wynn to
recover his stock in the Las Vegas-based company.  The company said in December that Schorr, who has been COO
since June 2002, and Wynn Macau Ltd. Chief Operating Officer
Linda Chen would step down from the board as the company trimmed
the committee and increased the number of independent directors.  Schorr was paid total compensation last year of $8.9
million, up from $8.1 million in each of the two previous years,
according to the company’s proxy statement filed March 26.  In the fourth quarter, Wynn Resorts posted profit that fell
short of analysts’ estimates as business in Macau declined.  Wynn Resorts fell 0.2 percent to $123.93 at 10:04 a.m. in
New York. The  stock  had gained 10 percent this year through
yesterday, compared with a 9.6 percent increase for the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Livesey in London at 
 blivesey@bloomberg.net ;
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  