-- Yen Set for Longest Monthly Drop in 12 Years on Easing
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d
-- 2013-03-29T07:38:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/yen-drops-on-bets-deflation-concern-to-spur-boj-easing.html
The yen headed for its longest
string of monthly losses in more than a decade on prospects
lingering deflation will prompt  Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda to boost stimulus measures at a policy meeting next week.  The Japanese currency slid versus the dollar this quarter
as Kuroda pledged action to achieve the central bank’s 2 percent
annual inflation target. A report today showed  Japan ’s consumer
prices slid in February at the fastest pace in 2 1/2 years. The
euro is poised for a three-month drop against the dollar as
Italy’s search for a prime minister continues and Cyprus’s
bailout revived debt crisis concerns.  “People have been rebuilding yen short positions,” said
Kazuo Shirai, a trader at Union Bank NA in  Los Angeles . “The
yen has come a long way, and prospects for it to weaken further
will very much depend on what Kuroda does at the policy meeting
next week.” Short positions are bets an asset will decline.  The yen fetched 94.07 per dollar as of 4:29 p.m. in  Tokyo 
from 94.15 yesterday. It slid 1.6 percent since Feb. 28, set to
complete the longest monthly falling streak since 2001.  Japan’s currency climbed 0.1 percent to 120.52 per euro and
has gained 0.3 percent this month. The euro bought $1.2813 after
rising 0.3 percent to close at $1.2816 in  New York . It’s poised
for a 1.9 percent monthly drop. Today is a holiday in  Europe ,
the U.S., and much of  Asia .  Japan’s currency has fallen 7.8 percent against the
greenback since Dec. 31, headed for its biggest back-to-back
quarterly decline since 1995. The euro has lost 2.9 percent over
the same period.  Kuroda Pledge  Kuroda will preside over his first BOJ policy meeting on
April 3-4. He said in testimony to parliament this week that he
wants to achieve the central bank’s price target in two years.
The central bank’s policies may become aggressive and
experimental under Kuroda, Pacific Investment Management Co.,
which runs the world’s biggest bond fund, said on its  website .  Japan’s consumer prices fell 0.7 percent in February from a
year earlier, compared with a 0.3 percent decline in the
previous period, the statistics bureau reported in Tokyo today.
That’s the biggest drop since August 2010 and in line with the
median estimate of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  Core consumer prices, excluding fresh food, declined 0.3
percent, failing to rise for a 10th month.  “The fact that deflation is persisting just increases the
pressure to make sure he comes out from that first meeting doing
something big right from the start,”  Nicholas Smith , a Japan
strategist at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets Ltd. in Tokyo, said in a
Bloomberg Television interview. “We’re probably going to weaken
from the present 94 yen to the dollar to about 100, I would have
thought, perhaps within this year.”  Italy Election  Strategists surveyed by Bloomberg News predict the yen will
be at 97 per dollar by Dec. 31.  In Italy, President Giorgio Napolitano took charge of the
search for the next prime minister after Pier Luigi Bersani was
unable to assemble a majority in the divided parliament.
Napolitano will consult political leaders today.  The euro rallied yesterday after Cyprus averted panic
withdrawals as banks opened for the first time in almost two
weeks, with government controls on access to cash leading to
orderly lines rather than runs on deposits.  “The re-emergence of concerns in  Italy  poses downside
risks to the euro, as Bersani has been unable to form a
government, thus far,” Morgan Stanley strategists led by Hans- Guenter Redeker wrote in an e-mailed note to clients yesterday.
Markets will focus on economic data “to see if this volatility
is spilling over to real output.”  Euro Manufacturing  A final reading of a gauge of  euro-area manufacturing  by
London-based Markit Economics will probably confirm a 20th month
of contraction in March, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Markit will publish the
figures on April 2. Two days later, European Central Bank
officials will gather for a monetary policy decision, when they
are expected to hold the benchmark  interest rate  at a record-low
0.75 percent, a separate  poll  of analysts showed.  The Australian dollar added 0.1 percent to $1.0416,
extending its quarterly gain to 0.2 percent. On April 2,  Reserve
Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  will probably refrain
from lowering his nation’s interest rate for a third meeting
this year, according to all 28 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg
News.  The central bank has reduced the key rate by 1.75
percentage points to 3 percent since the beginning of November
2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  