-- Euro Rallies Most in Week as Cyprus-Led Contagion Concern Fades
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-03-28T21:06:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/yen-gains-versus-peers-as-boj-s-kuroda-gives-no-new-policy-hints.html
The euro gained the most this week
versus the dollar as falling Spanish and Italian government bond
yields signaled Cyprus’s banking crisis may be contained.  Japan’s currency strengthened as the  Bank of Japan (8301) 
reiterated its monetary-stimulus options, damping speculation
for additional novel measures to boost the economy. Europe’s
common currency rose from a four-month low to the dollar as
Cyprus’s banks opened, with rules curbing access to cash.
Mexico’s peso has been the best performer against the dollar
among its 16 major peers this month and this quarter.  “There’s definitely a little bit of a relief bounce going
on related to Cyprus,” Brad Bechtel, managing director at Faros
Trading LLC in Stamford, Connecticut, said in a telephone
interview. “There’s a good amount of month-end related
activity, as well. People are comfortable to stay a little short
euro. They’re still skeptical that we’re going to get a bounce
just yet, but they’re getting more concerned about it.”  The 17-nation euro rose 0.3 percent to $1.2816 at 5 p.m.
 New York  time. It touched $1.2751 yesterday, the least since
Nov. 21. The yen gained 0.3 percent to 94.15 per dollar. Japan’s
currency was little changed at 120.67 per euro.  Peso Strength  Mexico’s peso has gained 3.4 percent to the greenback in
the past month, while South Korea’s won has declined 2.7
percent. This quarter, the Mexican currency has rallied 4
percent and South Africa’s rand has depreciated 8 percent.  The rand today gained the most in two weeks as the nation’s
trade deficit narrowed in February from a record in the previous
month. South Africa’s currency rose 0.6 percent to 9.0292 per
dollar.  The Australian dollar fell for a second day against Japan’s
currency as Italy’s inability to form a government and Cyprus’s
bailout damped demand for riskier assets. The so-called Aussie
fell 0.6 percent to 98.02 yen.  The European Central Bank is scheduled to make its next
policy announcement on April 4. The central bank has held its
benchmark interest-rate at 0.75 percent since July.  The Central Bank of Cyprus’s capital controls will include
a 300-euro ($384) daily limit on withdrawals and restrictions on
transfers to accounts outside the country. Banks opened at
midday. They will close at 6 p.m. local time, Yiangos Dimitriou,
head of the central bank’s audit department, said yesterday in
comments broadcast on state-run CyBC television.  European Bonds  Yields on Italian 10-year bonds fell two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 4.8 percent, while similar maturity
Spanish security yields declined two basis points to 5.1
percent.  The European Commission said in a statement the control on
capital movements must remain “proportionate” and be lifted as
soon as possible.  “Euro has come down quite a bit this week,” Robert Lynch,
a New York-based currency strategist at HSBC Holdings Plc, said
in a telephone interview. “That contagion element has been
problematic for the euro in the past and had contributed to the
euros’ weakness yesterday, and you don’t have that today. With
the more stable backdrop, I think that’s probably contributing
to euro’s performance today.”  The Federal Labor Agency said the number of people out of
work in Germany increased a seasonally adjusted 13,000 to 2.94
million. Economists had predicted a decline of 2,000, according
to the median of 24 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Market Measure  The shared currency may decline to its lowest level in
almost three years, according to Morgan Stanley’s Ian Stannard.  “What we’re now seeing, with regards to the continued
levels of uncertainty that have been building in the market, is
a case where the euro is going to remain under some pressure in
the near-term,” Stannard, head of European currency strategy at
Morgan Stanley, said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Joe Brusuelas. “The euro is
going to continue to remain under pressure over the coming year
into next year.”  The euro has dropped 0.6 percent in the past three months,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-nation currencies. The dollar has risen 2.9
percent, while the yen dropped 7.1 percent, the worst performer.  BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda told parliament’s upper house
today that policy makers need to lower yields on longer-maturity
government bonds and that purchases of risk assets may also be
needed. The comments echoed lower-house testimony on March 26,
when Kuroda pledged to buy more government bonds to reach the
BOJ’s inflation goal. The central bank will discuss policy on
April 3-4.  “Kuroda’s been talking up more aggressive easing and
stamping out deflation,” said Janu Chan, a Sydney-based
economist at St. George Bank Ltd. “If the governor does what’s
expected, we’ll probably see limited reaction. There’s probably
more risk that the yen strengthens than weakens.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  