-- Zinc Falls as Higher German Unemployment Fuels Crisis Concern
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-03-28T10:23:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/zinc-falls-as-higher-german-unemployment-fuels-crisis-concern.html
Zinc fell in London, leading
declines by industrial metals, as an unexpected gain in German
unemployment stoked concern the euro-area debt crisis is
weighing on regional economies.  The number of people out of work rose in March, Germany’s
Federal Labor Agency said today. Economists had predicted a
decline. Banks in Cyprus, where a plan to force losses on
depositors in exchange for a bailout triggered protests this
month, will reopen today under  capital controls . The dollar
headed for a seventh weekly climb in eight against the euro.  “We’re still watching the euro struggle,” Mark Lewon,
president of Salt Lake City-based scrap recycler Utah Metal
Works Inc., said by e-mail. A stronger dollar saps demand for
raw materials as an alternative investment.  Zinc for delivery in three months dropped 0.8 percent to
$1,894 a metric ton by 10:04 a.m. on the London Metal Exchange.
Prices reached the lowest level since Nov. 6. Copper fell 0.2
percent to $7,590 a ton and the metal for delivery in May lost
0.3 percent to $3.434 a pound on the Comex in New York.  LME copper is down 4.3 percent this quarter, set for a
third drop in four. Inventories of the metal tracked by the
exchange surged 78 percent in the period, the biggest jump since
the third quarter of 2005, figures compiled by Bloomberg showed.  “Copper is essentially stuck in the mud,”  William O’Neill , a partner at Logic Advisors in Upper Saddle River,  New
Jersey , said by e-mail, pointing to “warehouse stocks and
European events.” While buyers in  China , the world’s biggest
copper consumer, have shown some interest in the metal, funds
are absent, he said.  Copper stockpiles monitored by the LME rose for a 31st
session to 569,775 tons, exchange figures showed today. Orders
to remove the metal from warehouses jumped 42 percent to 91,375
tons, the highest since April 30, on gains in  New Orleans  and
Busan,  South Korea .  Aluminum, lead, nickel and tin fell in London. The LME and
Comex floor trading will be shut tomorrow for Good Friday. The
LME also will be closed April 1 for Easter Monday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in  London  at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  