-- Zoomlion Net Misses Estimates on Finance Costs, Demand Weakness
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-03-28T11:29:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-28/zoomlion-net-misses-estimates-on-finance-costs-demand-weakness.html
Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science and
Technology Co. ,  China ’s second-biggest construction equipment
maker, posted profit that missed analyst estimates as government
measures to cool the property market damped demand while finance
costs and provision for bad debts increased.  Net income  in 2012 fell 9.1 percent to 7.33 billion  yuan 
($1.18 billion) from 8.07 billion yuan in the prior year,
according to a  filing  to the Hong Kong stock exchange today.
That compares with the 8.49 billion yuan average of 26  analysts’
estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Sales climbed 3.8 percent to 48
billion yuan.  Zoomlion, based in Changsha, Hunan province, and bigger
rival Sany Heavy Industry Co. face a drop in orders as slowing
economic growth and government curbs on the property market sap
demand. Zoomlion is also seeking to boost investor confidence
after its shares slumped following a January report in Hong
Kong’s Ming Pao newspaper that the company’s sales may have been
exaggerated.  “Economic growth in China remained slackened with low
investment in infrastructure,” the company said in today’s
statement, “The construction machinery industry was also under
severe challenges brought by the sluggish growth of production
and sales and the increase in credit risks.”  Shares (1157)  of Zoomlion rose 0.9 percent to HK$9.37 at the close
in Hong Kong trading, before the earnings were released. The
stock has slumped 21 percent since Ming Pao reported on Jan. 8
that it had received an unsigned letter alleging that Zoomlion’s
sales are exaggerated.  Finance Costs  Zoomlion has repeatedly denied the allegations. It is “a
company with integrity,” Zhan Chunxin, the chairman, told
reporters in Guangzhou Jan. 11.  The company last month suspended the sale of its sanitation
business after failing to get any offers for almost a year. The
unit makes street sweepers and garbage trucks.  Net finance costs last year jumped to 274 million yuan from
36 million yuan in 2011, the statement showed. General and
administrative expenses increased 27 percent to 2.37 billion
yuan because of a “significant” increase in provisions for bad
debts and impairment of inventories, it said.  Zoomlion proposed to pay a final  dividend  of 0.2 yuan per
share, compared with the payout of 0.25 yuan a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  