-- 
L’Oreal Misses First-Half Profit Estimates, Affirms Guidance for Full Year

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-08-30T22:01:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/l-oreal-confirms-guidance-as-half-year-profit-trails-estimates.html
L’Oreal SA (OR)  may decline in Paris
trading after the world’s largest maker of cosmetics reported
first-half profit that trailed analysts’ estimates.  Operating profit rose 2 percent to 1.7 billion euros ($2.5
billion), the Paris-based company said yesterday after markets
closed. The median estimate of nine analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for profit of 1.78 billion euros. The
company, which holds a conference call with analysts today,
repeated its guidance for the year.  Earnings as a percentage of revenue narrowed to 16.8
percent from 17.3 percent a year earlier as L’Oreal spent more
on research and development, advertising and promotion to win
over customers amid higher unemployment and slowing economic
expansion. Consumers in Eastern  Europe  spent less on L’Oreal
products in the second quarter, which curbed sales growth.  “The operating performance is a disappointment and this
could prove a drag on the shares,” Eamonn Ferry, an analyst at
Exane BNP Paribas, said in an e-mailed note. He has an
“outperform” rating on the stock, which he estimate could drop
as much as 3 percent.  L’Oreal fell 1.8 percent to 77.01 euros in Paris trading
yesterday. The stock has declined 7.3 percent this year, giving
the Maybelline maker a market value of 46.3 billion euros.  The company, which also manufactures Kiehl’s lip balm and
Garnier deodorant, repeated its forecast for an increase in
full-year sales and profit. Revenue will grow faster than the
global cosmetic market’s 4 percent expansion as demand surges in
 Latin America  and  Asia , it has predicted.  Operating Margins  L’Oreal is “more confident than ever” in its ability to
build sustainable and profitable growth, even amid an uncertain
economic environment, Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul Agon
said in the statement. L’Oreal said on July 12 that first-half
sales rose 5 percent to 10.1 billion euros.  Profitability narrowed at all divisions except luxury
products, where it widened to 18.9 percent from 18 percent a
year earlier as more shoppers in Asia and Latin America scooped
up products including Kiehl’s wrinkle fillers and Lancome
lipsticks.  Investment in research and development increased 12 percent
in the period, while spending on advertising and promotion rose
6.3 percent, the 102-year-old company said. The company is
investing in a new Fructis initiative and a new fragrance for
its Yves Saint Laurent men’s line.  Body Shop  “Overall, the results show that fighting for market share
limits profit growth at present,” Andreas Riemann, an analyst
at Commerzbank, said by e-mail. He recommends buying the shares.  Profitability at the professional products division, which
supplies treatments including Inoa hair colorant to beauty
salons, narrowed to 19.8 percent from 21.2 percent a year
earlier. The division is slightly outperforming the market this
year in  North America  and western Europe, L’Oreal said last
month, noting that the market was difficult.  The operating margin at the consumer-products business,
L’Oreal’s largest source of income, narrowed to 20.1 percent
from 20.4 percent. The Body Shop’s profitability narrowed to 2.8
percent from 4.1 percent, while the dermatology division’s
margin narrowed to 8.1 percent from 12.4 percent.  The Body Shop, which L’Oreal bought five years ago, is
continuing its “militant” approach to innovations, including a
new makeup range and Body Butter Duos.  Net income rose to 1.47 billion euros from 1.31 billion
euros a year earlier. Net debt totaled 526 million euros as of
June 30, L’Oreal said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  