-- 
‘Too Early’ for Bank Debt as Housing Weakens, Seix’s Keegan Says

-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 
2011-08-30T18:05:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/-too-early-for-bank-debt-purchases-as-housing-weakens-seix-s-keegan-says.html
Investors shouldn’t load up on
financial bonds even after the worst declines in 30 months
because  home prices  may drop further as the economy slows, said
Seix Investment Advisors Inc. Chief Investment Officer Jim Keegan.  “It’s a little early,” said Keegan, whose firm manages
 about  $27 billion from  Upper Saddle River ,  New Jersey , and
reduced its bank bond holdings toward the end of the second
quarter. “We’re in the process of re-examining our outlook on
housing prices and may take that estimate down even further,”
said Keegan, whose $729 million RidgeWorth Total Return Bond
Fund has beaten 99 percent of its peers in the past month.  Bank bonds lost 2.4 percent in August, compared with gains
of 0.2 percent for industrial company debt, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data. Investors fled from borrowers
facing more risk as unemployment holds above 9 percent and U.S.
home prices fell 5.9 percent in the second quarter from a year
earlier, the biggest decline since 2009.  “We have been of the view, which coming into this year was
very much out of consensus, that housing prices would double dip
and in fact that is what happened,” said Keegan in a telephone
interview on Aug. 25. The firm sold bank bonds and bought
“defensive quality non-financials” like pipelines and large
industrial companies, he said.  Global Slowdown  The RidgeWorth Total Return Bond Fund gained 1.6 percent in
the past month as investment-grade corporate debt lost 0.5
percent. It has beaten 94 percent of its peers this year by
returning 6.4 percent.  “We are experiencing at least a global slowdown, which may
turn into a global recession, and then you layer on all the bank
balance sheet risk, derivative risks, the counterparty risk and
the uncertainty associated with that, and it should not be
surprising as to what’s causing the concern and uncertainty in
the financial sector and the banking sector in particular
here,” Keegan said.  Corporate bonds remain attractive outside of bank debt,
Keegan said.  “The technicals are favorable for credit in this zero
interest rate policy environment and corporate balance sheets
are in very good shape,” Keegan said. “You’ve got to be very
careful as it relates to the banks in general but the industrial
sector is very strong in here as well as the utility sector.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  