-- 
ArcelorMittal, Peabody Agree to Buy Australia’s Macarthur Coal

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-08-30T06:33:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/macarthur-recommends-investors-accept-increased-a-16-per-share-peabody-bid.html
ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s largest
steelmaker, and  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU)  agreed to buy Macarthur
Coal Ltd. after sweetening their bid, valuing the Australian
producer at A$4.8 billion ($5.2 billion).  ArcelorMittal and Peabody, the biggest U.S. coal producer,
raised their bid to A$16 a share from A$15.50, Brisbane-based
Macarthur said today in a statement. The board recommends the
offer, which is 44 percent more than the stock’s close before
the initial proposal on July 11.  Macarthur’s shares closed at A$15.86 in Sydney, indicating
investors don’t yet expect any counterbid. Buying Macarthur will
give Peabody and ArcelorMittal, its second-largest shareholder,
control of the world’s biggest maker of pulverized coal used by
steelmakers after prices reached a record.  “There’s probably not a lot more that can be extracted for
Macarthur shareholders unless there’s a challenge from another
party,” said  Jamie Spiteri , head dealer at Shaw Stockbroking
Ltd. in Sydney.  The Peabody group’s bid for Macarthur will be the second-
largest coal takeover this year, second only to Alpha Natural
Resources Inc.’s $7.1 billion purchase of Massey Energy Co. in
June. This year has yielded almost 50 coal transactions globally,
with a combined value of more than $20 billion.  No Assurance  “In the period since the initial offer, a number of
parties have conducted due diligence,” Macarthur said in the
statement. “Although it remains possible that a superior
proposal might be made, none have emerged to date and there can
be no assurances that any will emerge.”  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  is exploring a bid for  Macarthur Coal
Ltd. (MCC) , according to two people with knowledge of the matter. Teck
Resources Ltd. and Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. may also be
interested, the Australian Financial Review said in its Street
Talk column on July 27, without citing anyone.  China ’s Citic Group owned 24.6 percent of Macarthur,
ArcelorMittal 16.07 percent and  South Korea ’s Posco 7.02 percent
as at July 7, according to the company’s web site. The bidders
are seeking at least 50.01 percent of the target. Citic’s
nominee on the board, Chen Zeng, hasn’t been involved in any
decision or resolution on the Peabody and ArcelorMittal bid,
Macarthur said in the statement.  Second Time Around  “Our offer is the only offer before Macarthur shareholders,
and we urge them to accept without delay,”  Aditya Mittal , chief
financial officer of Luxembourg-based ArcelorMittal, said in a
joint statement with Peabody.  It’s the second time Peabody has bid for Macarthur, which
rejected its A$3.8 billion, or A$15 a share, approach in May
last year. Macarthur ended transaction talks with ArcelorMittal
in June 2008 after the steelmaker bought a 14.9 percent stake
the previous month.  The proposal values Macarthur at about 9.9 times analysts’
projected earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization for fiscal 2012, based on Bloomberg calculations.
The median for coal takeovers greater than $1 billion completed
this year was 6.7 times Ebitda, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It’s a fair value price,”  Andrew Harrington , resources
analyst with Patersons Securities Ltd., said by phone from
Sydney. “Any counterbid is becoming increasingly difficult.
Citic is the cornerstone of any deal approach and you’d have to
have been in advanced discussions in order to move quickly.”  Citic Move?  Two phone calls to Citic’s public relations department in
Beijing weren’t answered during office hours. The company didn’t
immediately respond to a voicemail message seeking comment on
Macarthur agreeing to be acquired by ArcelorMittal and Peabody.  The Chinese company said July 11 it hadn’t decided whether
to accept the initial offer. A rival bid may include Citic,
brokers including RBS Morgans Ltd. have said. Citic is receiving
advice from Macquarie Group Ltd., said one person familiar with
the matter.  The bid is being made through PEAMCoal Pty, a venture 40
percent owned by ArcelorMittal and 60 percent by Peabody.  Macarthur is being advised by J.P. Morgan  Australia  Ltd.
and Corrs Chambers Westgarth. ArcelorMittal is advised by  RBC
Capital Markets  and Mallesons Stephen Jaques. UBS AG, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch and Freehills are advising Peabody.  Under the terms of the agreement, Peabody and ArcelorMittal
have the right to match any competing offer and Macarthur faces
a A$48.3 million break fee.  Credit Suisse Group AG in July raised its long-term price
forecast for pulverized coal by 17 percent to $134 a metric ton.
Benchmark prices reached a record $275 a ton in the June quarter,
Macarthur said this month, citing production constraints in
Australia and stronger seaborne global demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  