-- 
Shrinking Labor Force May Curb U.S. Expansion for Two Decades

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-08-30T23:09:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/aging-baby-boomers-shrinking-labor-force-may-curb-u-s-growth-for-20-years.html
This is not your mother’s recovery.  Women and baby boomers entering the American workforce
helped to supercharge expansions in 1975 and 1983 by
filling an increasing number of jobs and purchasing more goods
and services. Now as the share of women with jobs falls and
older Americans age into retirement, the shrinking -- or, at
best, slowly growing -- workforce will weaken economic activity
for the next two decades.  The demographic changes may be the biggest and least-
appreciated reason why the two-year recovery has slowed, because
the rate of growth for labor and capital is “the most important
determinant” of economic expansion, said  James Paulsen , chief
investment strategist for Wells Capital Management in
Minneapolis.  More retirees mean slower household formation, reduced
 consumer spending  and downward pressure on equity prices as
retirement cuts people’s purchasing power, according to  John Lonski , chief economist at Moody’s Capital Markets Group in New
York, and  Gus Faucher , director of macroeconomics at Moody’s
Analytics Inc. in  West Chester , Pennsylvania.  Household purchases rose at an average annual pace of 3.2
percent in the quarter century that began in 1972, when the
oldest of the boomers turned 26, and averaged 2.8 percent since
1996, when they turned 50, according to Lonski. He forecasts the
decline will continue, to between 2 percent and 2.5 percent a
year, as growth slows for Americans aged 15 to 49.  “A weaker labor force does dampen the pace of the
rebound,” along with “our expectation for what an expansionary
trend is,” said  Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist at Barclays
Capital Inc. in New York. “We should be lowering our sights on
potential GDP compared to when our population was younger.”  Growth ‘Speed Limit’  Anemic gains in the number of new workers has effectively
cut the long-term “speed limit for growth” to 2.25 percent,
estimates Maki, a former senior economist at the Federal
Reserve. That compares with the Fed’s estimated 2.5 percent to
2.8 percent rate for gross domestic product and average growth
of 3.2 percent from 1980 to 2000.  Automakers  General Motors Co. (GM) ,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203) , motorcycle maker  Harley-Davidson Inc. (HOG)  and natural-
foods grocer Whole Foods Market Inc. may be hurt by the shift
because most retirees will cut spending on big-ticket items and
nonessentials, said C. Britt Beemer, chairman of America’s
Research Group in Charleston, S.C., a consulting company that
studies consumer behavior.  “Older people tend to have lower incomes, their
consumption tends to be lower and in that sense, consumer-
spending growth would be weaker as well,” said Moody’s Faucher.
“There will be fewer people in prime car-buying years,” and
“recreational goods and services are a young-adult thing.”  Sell Shares  The aging population also may hold down stock values for
the next two decades as boomers sell shares to finance
retirement, according to a  Federal Reserve  Bank of San Francisco
research paper released Aug. 22.  “The mentality has shifted to preserving wealth rather
than growing wealth, with less-risky portfolio allocations,”
said Emily Sanders, president of Sanders Financial Management
Inc. in Norcross, Georgia, whose largest group of clients is
aged 55-65. A typical 65-year-old may have 50 percent of his
portfolio in stocks, which would drop to 30 percent at age 80,
she said.  Faucher forecasts changing demographics will lead to a
period when nominal GDP growth -- which includes the impact of
inflation -- slows to 3.3 percent compared with 5.5 percent
before the 18-month recession. That means the rise in corporate
profits and equity prices would slow to about 3.3 percent from
5.5 percent as well, he said.  Aging Population  An estimated 72 million people, or 19.3 percent of the
population, will be 65 and older by 2030, compared with 40
million, or 13 percent, in 2010, the Census Bureau estimates.  While new college graduates will assume some jobs as
retirees leave the workforce, young adults’ share of the
population is shrinking. By 2030, there will be 34 million
people aged 18 to 24, representing 9.1 percent of the
population, down from 9.9 percent in 2010, according to the
Census Bureau. The share of people aged 25 to 44 will drop to
25.5 percent from 26.8 percent.  “We are at the threshold of retirement mountain: a huge,
huge change in the numbers of people who are reaching the age
where they are leaving the labor force,” said Neal Soss, chief
economist with Credit Suisse Holdings USA in  New York .  While losses from declines in the value of 401k and similar
accounts may force some to delay retirement, these delays will
be temporary, he said.  Work Longer  “Maybe one of the solutions here is that they work a year
or two longer,” he said. “Do we really think we are going to
have a lot of 80-year-olds in the workforce? It sounds good
until you start thinking about the practicalities of it.”  The baby boom, the population bulge born after World War II
between 1946 and 1964, added 9.4 million people in the 16-24 age
group during the 1960s and 7.3 million in the 1970s. The
percentage of women in the workforce almost doubled to 60.3
percent in 2000 from 33.6 percent in 1953, according to the
Labor Department.  Boomers started turning 65 this year, and every day for the
next 18 years, about 10,000 more will hit the age that
historically has been associated with retirement, according to
the Pew Research Center in  Washington . Women’s participation in
the labor force may decline slightly during the next 40 years to
about 57 percent because fewer will have jobs as they grow
older, the Bureau of Labor Statistics projects.  Contracting Labor Force  All this means the workforce will expand 0.6 percent
annually for the next 40 years, down sharply from 2 percent
between 1950 and 1985, according to the bureau. The labor force
has contracted 1.1 percent since 2008, mainly because the
recession has forced people out of jobs and made it difficult
for them to find new employment.  Future recoveries will likely resemble the current one and
expansions after the recessions of 1990-1991 and 2001, when
labor-force growth already had slowed to near 1 percent, with
relatively modest jobs gains, Paulsen said. Increases in
resources -- capital, land or labor -- “have been associated
with every economic boom” in the U.S. and help explain why
emerging markets sustain faster expansions, he added.  While U.S. GDP has grown at an average annual pace of 2.4
percent in the eight quarters since the December 2007 recession
ended, that compares with an average of 6.3 percent after the
July 1981 slump and 4.7 percent following the November 1973
contraction, both of which lasted 16 months.  ‘Vastly Greater’  Gary Burtless, senior fellow at the  Brookings Institution 
in Washington, agrees that slower  population growth  affects the
rate of economic output. Still, the recent decline in the
workforce “is vastly greater than can be explained” by
demographics and mainly reflects the inability of unemployed
people to find work, he said.  Payrolls climbed by 75,000 workers in August after a
117,000 increase in July, and the  unemployment rate  held at 9.1
percent, according to the median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News before Labor Department data Sept. 2. In July,
the number of long-term unemployed -- people without work for 27
weeks and more -- was 6.2 million and accounted for 44.4 percent
of the jobless.  Some industries may benefit from the demographic shift,
Faucher said.  “We’d expect to see strong growth in health-care spending,
and I think we’ll need to see strong growth in investment
spending as companies will need to invest in technology to get
greater productivity,” he said.  Walgreen, CVS Caremark  Walgreen Co. (WAG) , the largest U.S. drugstore chain, and  CVS
Caremark Corp. (CVS) , the largest provider of  prescription drugs , both
say the aging population could boost sales.  “People reaching 65 have an average life expectancy of an
additional 18.6 years and use three times as many prescriptions
as the younger population,” Larry J. Merlo, president and chief
executive officer of CVS in Woonsocket, Rhode Island, said at a
conference earlier this year.  About 70 percent of Americans aged 50 to 64 are very or
moderately worried about having enough money in retirement, an
April Gallup poll showed. People need about 70 percent to 80
percent of their pre-retirement income to live comfortably after
they quit working, according to the  Social Security
Administration .  Their concerns may be exacerbated as the slow recovery and
aging workforce has prompted the government to forecast that
Medicare, the U.S. health-insurance program for the elderly and
disabled, and the Social Security trust for the disabled and
retirees will run out of money sooner than earlier projections.  Insufficient Funds  The trustees of the two programs reported in May that
Medicare won’t have sufficient funds to pay full benefits
starting in 2024, five years earlier than last year’s estimate,
and Social Security’s cash to pay full benefits runs short in
2036, a year sooner than the 2010 projection.  Maya Hahn, an Atlanta real-estate agent, turned 65 last
week and said she plans to retire next year on less than half
the “six-figure income” she earned during the early 2000s. She
considers herself “semiretired” now because of the housing
bust in the past few years.  “The happiest day of my life was the day I got my
Medicare,” she said. “It was a huge weight lifted off me”
because of rising health-care and drug expenses in retirement.  “You have to think about what you spend on anything,” she
said. “You don’t go out to movies. You don’t go out to dinner.
You don’t go on vacation. There are no fun bucks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  