-- 
Hairy Satyrs, Snake Killers Add Fun to Louvre Treasure: Review

-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 
2011-08-30T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/hairy-satyrs-snake-killers-add-fun-to-louvre-treasures-jorg-von-uthmann.html
While grotesque crowds jostle for a
glimpse of the Mona Lisa, the room next door is almost empty.
And yet, if ever a show deserved the title “Small is
Beautiful,” this would be it.  For the first time, the  Louvre  reveals one of its best kept
secrets, its collection of miniatures taken from medieval and
Renaissance manuscripts.  Cutting pictures out of books might not be a nice thing to
do, yet it’s a time-honored practice. It started in the 18th
century, when tourists from northern  Europe  flocked to Italy,
eager to bring home souvenirs.  One of the worst sinners was Luigi Celotti, a Venetian
abbot who became an  art dealer . In 1798, when the Vatican
Library was pillaged by French troops, he bought the loot, cut
it up and sold the illustrations to collectors. Many ended up at
the  British Museum .  The collection of the Louvre evolved in a more haphazard
way, mostly thanks to donations. Among the donors, two colorful
characters stand out -- Horace de Viel-Castel, known for his
malicious memoirs, and Charles Sauvageot.  A violinist in the orchestra of the opera, Sauvageot
collected anything that wasn’t nailed down. A room at the Louvre
is named after him.  Donors’ Picks  No wonder the show reflects the personal taste of the
donors rather than the systematic approach of an art historian.
The 70 items, the cream of the crop, come from  Italy ,  France ,
 Germany  and Flanders and cover half a millennium -- from the
11th to the 16th century.  At the end of the 12th century, the production of
illuminated books passed from monks to lay artists, which meant
that miniatures on parchment or vellum became a worthy
equivalent of contemporary paintings on wood and canvas.  One of their characteristics was borders where flowers,
insects and little monsters were rendered with the utmost
accuracy, often adding an element of comic relief. On the margin
of a Nativity from Verona you find, for no particular reason, a
satyr with hairy legs, hooves and a long tail.  The favorite subjects were scenes from the Bible -- the
Annunciation, the Adoration of the Magi, the Crucifixion. When
the Renaissance rediscovered antiquity, pagan heroes joined the
Christian pantheon. A miniature from Naples shows young Hercules
killing the snakes sent by Juno against her husband’s
extramarital offspring.  The most brilliant of the artists in the show is Jean
Fouquet (ca. 1420-80), the greatest French painter of the 15th
century. Whether he worked on miniatures or on a larger scale,
his art always has the same monumental character.  Fouquet’s St. Margaret tending a flock of sheep, from
Etienne Chevalier’s celebrated Book of Hours, is a masterpiece
of elegance and charm.  Skip Lisa, have a look at Margaret.  “Enluminures du Moyen Age et de la Renaissance” runs
through Oct. 3. The show coincides with the publication of a
catalogue raisonne of the whole collection (55 euros or $79.33).
Information:  http://www.louvre.fr  or +33-1-4020-5317.  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at  mbeech@bloomberg.net . 