-- 
Alabama Immigration Law, Calpers, Mylan-Teva in Court News

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-08-30T11:45:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/alabama-immigration-law-ge-calpers-mylan-teva-in-court-news.html
Alabama’s new immigration law giving
police the power to verify the immigration status of people
stopped for questioning, was blocked by a U.S. judge three days
before it was scheduled to take effect.  U.S. District Judge Sharon Lovelace Blackburn in Birmingham
issued a two-page order yesterday barring enforcement of the
law, which includes provisions requiring police to verify the
immigration status of anyone they stop whom they suspect may be
in the country illegally and criminalizes the knowing rental of
housing to unlawful immigrants.  The federal government, the  American Civil Liberties Union 
and Christian clergy, among others, asked Blackburn to
temporarily stop enforcement of the law. Birmingham attorney
Augusta Dowd argued on behalf of the clergy, which said the law
interfered with carrying out their Christian duties, including
clothing and feeding the undocumented immigrants.  “In entering this order, the court specifically notes that
it is no way addressing the merits of the motions,” Blackburn
wrote.  The U.S. Justice Department and the ACLU argued Aug. 24 at
a nine-hour hearing that federal law governs the treatment of
undocumented immigrants.  The state’s lawyers, Alabama Deputy Attorneys General John
Neiman and Misty Fairbanks, said the state has the right to
police people in its own borders.  Blackburn said she will rule on the merits of the act no
later than Sept. 28 and that her order remains in effect until
Sept. 29 or until she rules, whichever comes first.  The cases are Hispanic Interest Coalition of Alabama v.
Bentley, 5:11-cv-2484, Parsley v. Bentley, 5:11-cv-2736, and
U.S. v. Bentley, 5:11-cv-2746, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Alabama (Birmingham).  Verdicts/Settlements  GE Settles With Justice Department Over Converteam Deal  General Electric Co. (GE)  reached an agreement with the U.S.
Justice Department that allows the company to buy most of
 Converteam Group SAS  from Barclays Private Equity Ltd. and LBO
France for $3.2 billion to add equipment that helps electricity
flow to the power grid from devices such as wind turbines.  The Justice Department, which filed a lawsuit yesterday in
federal court in Washington seeking to block the deal, said in a
press release that the settlement requires GE to sell
Converteam’s Electric Machinery Holding Co.  “As originally proposed, the acquisition would have
lessened the competition that currently exists among
manufacturers of low-speed synchronous electric motors,” said
Sharis A. Pozen, acting assistant attorney general in charge of
the Justice Department’s Antitrust Division, in an e-mailed
statement.  The proposed settlement requires approval by a federal
judge.  The electric machinery unit of Converteam is a small and
non-strategic U.S. subsidiary that Converteam acquired in 2007,
 Dan Nelson , a GE spokesman, said. Electric Machinery accounted
for about 3 percent of Massy, France-based Converteam’s 2010
revenue, he said.  “GE and Converteam have already received all of the other
required regulatory approvals and look forward to the closing of
their transaction in the coming weeks,” Nelson said in a
statement.  Closely held Converteam had $1.5 billion in sales and $239
million in earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization last year, GE said in March.  Orders at Converteam rose 36 percent in 2010, according to
Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE. The company, whose products
include motors used in gas pipelines and equipment to convert
electricity from wind, thermal and hydro sources into “grid-
quality” power, has 5,300 employees.  The case is U.S. v. General Electric Co., 11-cv-01549, U.S.
District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  Fitch Settles Calpers Suit Over SIV Ratings, Makes No Payout  Fitch Ratings Ltd. settled negligence claims brought by the
California Public Employees’ Retirement System’s over ratings it
gave structured investment vehicles that later collapsed,
agreeing to provide Calpers with documents from a similar
lawsuit pending in  New York .  Under the settlement Fitch will make no payment to Calpers,
the biggest U.S. pension fund, said Daniel Noonan, a Fitch
spokesman. A notice of the settlement was filed Aug. 26,
according to state court records in San Francisco.  Calpers sued Fitch, Moody’s Investors Service Inc. and
Standard & Poors over ratings for three SIVs -- Cheyne Finance
LLC, Stanfield Victoria Funding LLC and Sigma Finance Inc. -- in
which Calpers invested $1.3 billion. Fitch will provide Calpers
with a copy of its deposition taken in February and other
documents it produced in a pending investor lawsuit against
Moody’s and  Standard & Poor’s  filed by Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank
over the Cheyne Financie SIV.  Dismissal of Fitch from the California case “will
streamline the litigation against” the other two ratings
companies, Wayne Davis, a Calpers spokesman, said in an e-mail.  “The dismissal will not impact the case,” said Davis.
“Calpers can still fully recover its damages it if prevails
against Moody’s or S&P, which will not be able to avoid
liability through the Fitch dismissals.”  Fitch denied liability and settled “to avoid the cost and
expense of litigation,” according to the settlement agreement.  “Fitch is pleased with the resolution of this case and the
disposition reached with Calpers,” Noonan said yesterday in an
e-mail. Noonan declined to comment about other terms of the
settlement.  The case is Calpers v. Moody’s, 09-490241, Superior Court
of California, County of San Francisco.  For more, click here.  Kenneth Lay, Deceased Enron CEO, Triumphs Over IRS in Tax Court  Kenneth Lay, the deceased chief executive officer of Enron
Corp., defeated the Internal Revenue Service in the agency’s bid
to collect $3.9 million from his estate and his wife, the  U.S.
Tax Court  ruled.  The case decided yesterday involved transactions among Lay,
his wife, Linda, and Enron that were executed on Sept. 21, 2001.
The Lays sold $10 million in annuities to Enron as part of an
agreement for him to retake the CEO position, under the
stipulation that the annuities would be returned to Lay if he
worked a 4.25-year term. The company didn’t survive that long,
and it filed for bankruptcy protection in December 2001.  The IRS contested the Lays’ contention that the annuities
were sold to Enron for no gain, according to the Tax Court
decision by Judge Joseph Goeke. In 2009, the IRS filed a notice
of tax deficiency for $3.9 million, arguing that the Lays should
have reported the $10 million as income in 2001. Instead, they
reported that they sold the annuities to Enron at their cost
basis, generating no taxable income.  Goeke wrote in the decision that the agency’s position was
incorrect, and he ruled for Linda Lay and for Kenneth Lay’s
estate. The transactions, he wrote, were legitimate, and neither
of the Lays nor the estate received any distributions or death
benefit from the annuity.  Lay, who died in 2006 at age 64, was convicted in May 2006
by a federal jury in Houston. He and the company’s former CEO,
Jeffrey Skilling, were found guilty of deceiving shareholders
about Enron’s financial condition by hiding debt and losses in a
series of off balance-sheet entities. Lay’s convictions were
later thrown out because he didn’t have a chance to appeal the
cases before he died.  Charles Egerton , an Orlando, Florida, attorney who
represented the estate and Linda Lay in the Tax Court case,
didn’t respond to an e-mail and phone message late yesterday.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Mylan Motion to Dismiss Teva Patent Suit Denied by Judge  Mylan Inc.’s motion to dismiss a patent lawsuit by  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  over the multiple-sclerosis drug
Copaxone was denied by a federal judge.  U.S. District Judge Barbara Jones rejected Mylan’s claim
that Teva’s patent for the drug was invalid, according to a
filing yesterday in federal court. A trial on the patent
infringement case in Manhattan is set to begin Sept. 7.  Teva, which licensed patents from Yeda Research and
Development Co. for Copaxone, sued  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Sandoz in 2008
and Mylan in 2009 after they separately tried to win approvals
from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to market generic
versions of the drug before its patents expired in 2014.  Jones consolidated the cases. An earlier motion by Sandoz
to dismiss the patent claim as invalid was also rejected.  The Sandoz case is Teva Phamaceutical Industries Ltd. v.
Sandoz Inc., 08-7611, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan). The Mylan case is Teva Pharmaceuticals
Industries Ltd. v. Mylan Inc., 09-8824, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  FDIC Objects to BofA’s $8.5 Billion Mortgage-Bond Settlement  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. filed an objection to
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s proposed $8.5 billion mortgage-bond
settlement with investors, joining investors and states that are
challenging the agreement.  The FDIC, the receiver for failed banks, owns securities
covered by the settlement and said it doesn’t have enough
information to evaluate the accord, according to a filing
yesterday in federal court in Manhattan.  Under the agreement, Bank of America would pay $8.5 billion
to resolve claims from investors in Countrywide Financial Corp.
mortgage bonds. The settlement was negotiated with a group of
institutional investors, including  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and Pacific
Investment Management Co. LLC, and would apply to investors
outside that group.  Bank of New York Mellon Corp., the trustee for the
mortgage-securitization trusts covered by the agreement, has
asked a New York state judge to approve the settlement in
November. An investor group is trying to move the case to
federal court, which Bank of New York opposes.  Investors that would be bound by the settlement, including
American International Group Inc., have criticized the deal and
Bank of New York’s role representing investors in the mortgage
bonds. New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  and Delaware
Attorney General  Beau Biden  have sought to intervene in the case
and asked the court to reject it.  The FDIC’s involvement may make it more difficult for
Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America to get approval
for the settlement, said Bert Ely, a bank-industry consultant in
Alexandria, Virginia.  Andrew Gray, an FDIC spokesman, said in an e-mail that the
FDIC generally doesn’t comment on pending litigation.  “This filing is simply a formal notice to preserve our
right to make claims as a part of the settlement and seeks
additional information to evaluate those potential claims,”  he
said. “It is not an evaluation or opinion on the settlement
itself.”  “We believe that the trustee acted reasonably in entering
into the settlement, and that there are compelling reasons why
the agreement should receive judicial approval,” Lawrence Grayson, a Bank of America spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Kevin Heine, a spokesman for Bank of New York, said the
company had no comment.  The state case is In the matter of the application of The
Bank of New York Mellon, 651786-2011, New York State Supreme
Court, New York County (Manhattan). The federal case is In the
Matter of the Application of Bank of New York Mellon, 11-
cv-5988, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  SIPC Says Madoff Suit Against Sonja Kohn Shouldn’t Be Dismissed  The Securities Investor Protection Corp. said it opposes
the dismissal of a lawsuit brought by the liquidator of Bernard
Madoff’s investment firm against Bank Medici AG founder Sonja Kohn and  UniCredit SpA. (UCG)   Lawyers for SIPC said in a filing yesterday in federal
court in Manhattan that, as the agency charged with the
administration of the Securities Investor Protection Act and as
an adviser to the court, it opposes UniCredit’s and the related
defendants’ request to dismiss trustee  Irving Picard ’s common
law claims, including those for unjust enrichment.  UniCredit last month asked a district judge to dismiss
Picard’s “hollow” racketeering claims seeking $59 billion from
the bank, or three times what investors lost in the Ponzi
scheme.  Picard named Milan-based UniCredit and its Bank Austria
unit in a December complaint against Bank Medici, Kohn and
dozens of other Austrian and Italian parties. He demanded $19.6
billion -- his estimate at the time of all principal lost by
Madoff investors -- using the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
Organizations Act to triple the amount.  The claim is the largest of more than 1,000 filed by
Picard.  In yesterday’s filing, SIPC said that while Picard in his
opposition to the motion to dismiss focused on the RICO claims,
it seeks to support his common law claims. U.S. District Judge
Jed Rakoff last month ruled that Picard didn’t have standing to
pursue common law claims against London-based HSBC Holdings Plc.  The SIPC lawyers said the ruling is inconsistent with the
provisions and purposes of the Securities Investors Protection
Act.  The case is Picard v. Kohn, 11-cv-01181, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Intel Trial Witnesses Blame Rambus for Doomed Chip  Rambus Inc. can blame itself and not the semiconductor
makers targeted in its $3.95 billion suit for the failure of a
memory chip to become the industry standard, according to  Intel
Corp. (INTC)  managers who worked with the company.  Paul Fahey, an Intel engineer called to testify in defense
of  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660)  and  Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  at an
antitrust trial in state court in San Francisco, told jurors
that Rambus’s technology was flawed and its engineers less
competent than their peers. Rambus’s insistence on a so-called
guillotine contract also led Intel to conclude its alliance with
the company was “doomed,” William Swope, a former Intel
strategic planning manager, testified.  Rambus engineers “were not as competent and they didn’t
work as hard,” said Fahey, who in 1999 as a program manager for
Intel oversaw the development of Rambus’s version of dynamic
random access memory, or DRAM.  The testimony from Fahey, Swope and at least three other
current and former Intel employees may undermine Rambus’s claim
that Hynix and Micron colluded to drive its DRAM chips, which it
called RDRAM, out of the market. By 2003, Intel abandoned its
work on RDRAM as a solution to a computer-memory bottleneck that
threatened to stymie the growth of the Santa Clara, California-
based company, the world’s biggest chipmaker.  In the trial that began June 8, Rambus argues that Hynix
and Micron conspired to lower the prices of their own chips and
deserted their commitment to produce RDRAM, relegating it to a
niche role. Sunnyvale, California-based Rambus, which doesn’t
manufacture the chips it designs, contends it would have earned
$3.95 billion in royalties without the alleged conspiracy. Under
California law, a jury finding of damages in that amount would
be automatically tripled to $11.9 billion.  Linda Ashmore , a Rambus spokeswoman, and  Chuck Mulloy , an
Intel spokesman, declined to comment on the testimony by Intel
employees. Ken Nissly, a lawyer representing Ichon, South Korea-
based Hynix, and Micron spokesman Dan Francisco also declined to
comment. Boise, Idaho-based Micron is the largest U.S. maker of
computer memory chips. DRAM chips are used to store data
temporarily to help devices run multiple programs at the same
time on computers.  Hynix and Micron have said they will finish their case by
early September. Rambus will then have another chance to rebut
their evidence.  The case is  Rambus Inc. (RMBS)  v. Micron Technology Inc.,
04-0431105, California Superior Court (San Francisco).  For more, click here.  New Suits  SEC Sues Florida Men for Bilking Teachers in $22 Million Scam  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sued two
Florida men, claiming they defrauded teachers and retirees in a
$22 million Ponzi scheme by posing as a private-equity fund
while enriching themselves.  James D. Risher and Daniel Sebastian fraudulently lured
more than 100 investors with promises of annual returns of as
much as 124 percent, the SEC said yesterday in a lawsuit filed
in U.S. District Court in Florida. Risher, who spent 11 of the
past 21 years in jail, spent customers’ funds on jewelry, gifts
and real estate in North Carolina and Florida, the SEC said.  “Risher, who masqueraded as a highly successful equity
trader, teamed up with Sebastian to tout sophisticated trading
strategies they claimed would generate substantial profits,”
Eric Bustillo, head of the SEC’s regional office in Miami, said
in a statement. “Instead, Risher and Sebastian used investors’
life savings and retirement nest eggs to line their own
pockets.”  Burton Wiand, Sebastian’s attorney, said in a telephone
interview that his client had been “deceived” by Risher and
voluntarily reported the scheme to the SEC and criminal
authorities once it became evident to him. Sebastian has since
cooperated with government officials as well as attorneys
representing former clients, Wiand said.  Risher was indicted on related criminal charges June 29. A
phone call to Adam Allen, a public defender who has represented
Risher in the criminal matter, wasn’t immediately returned.  Innkeepers Sues Cerberus, Chatham for Breach of Commitment  Innkeepers USA Trust, an operator of Residence Inns,
Marriott hotels and Hampton Inns, sued Cerberus Capital
Management LP and  Chatham Lodging Trust (CLDT) , saying its agreement to
sell 64 hotels to Cerberus and Chatham can’t be called off due
to market conditions or a change in its business.  Last week, Cerberus and Chatham terminated the deal.
Innkeepers, in the lawsuit filed in Manhattan bankruptcy court
yesterday, says there has been no change in its business since a
binding agreement was signed with Cerberus and Chatham on May
16.  “General market volatility is wholly irrelevant here,”
lawyers for Innkeepers wrote. The lawsuit seeks to hold Cerberus
and Chatham to their commitment, and seeks damages for
potentially more than their $20 million deposit.  The material adverse change clause in Innkeepers’ agreement
allowed Cerberus and Chatham  to pull out of the deal for “any
condition, change or development that could reasonably be
expected to have a material adverse effect on the business,
assets, liabilities or operations, condition or prospect” of
Innkeepers.  Innkeepers, whose parent is managed by an affiliate of Leon Black’s private-equity firm Apollo Global Management LLC, filed
for bankruptcy on July 19, 2010, with a pre-arranged
reorganization plan proposed by Apollo and Lehman Ali, a unit of
bankrupt Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., which was rejected by
creditors.  Cerberus and Chatham later won an auction to acquire the 64
hotels after topping a $970.7 million offer from Lehman Ali and
Five Mile Capital Partners. According to that agreement, which
also had a material adverse change clause, the termination date
on the offer isn’t until Sept. 15.  The case is In re Innkeepers USA Trust, 10-13800, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Lufthansa Sued Over Claims It Hampers Competition, FTD Reports  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  was sued by Verband Sozialer
Wettbewerb e.V. over allegation it forces large clients to
disclose rebates they get from other airlines, Financial Times
Deutschland reported, without saying where it got the
information.  German antitrust-regulators are also looking at the issue,
the newspaper said. The Verband Sozialer Wettbewerb is an
interest group working for fair business practices,  according  to
the FT Deutschland.  Lufthansa spokesman Boris Ogursky said the company won’t
comment on the suit. Its terms and conditions comply with legal
requirements and its contracts have no clause requiring
customers to disclose rebates they get from Lufthansa’s
competitors, he said.  Bloomberg News was unable to contact the Verband Sozialer
Wettbewerb by phone before office hours. The Federal Cartel
Office’s press department didn’t immediately reply to an e-mail
seeking comment.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  