-- 
Mandarin Chinese Most Useful Business Language After English

-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 
2011-08-30T19:34:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/mandarin-chinese-most-useful-business-language-after-english-1-.html
Mandarin,  China ’s official tongue,
is also the top language worldwide for business other than
English, according to Bloomberg Rankings.  Mandarin, spoken by 845 million people, scored highest in a
ranking of languages, excluding English, based on business
usefulness. The ranking scored languages according to the number
of speakers, number of countries where the language is official,
along with those nations’ populations, financial power,
educational and literacy rates, and related measures.  French, spoken by 68 million people worldwide and the
official language of 27 countries, was ranked second, followed
by Arabic, which is spoken by 221 million people and is official
in 23 nations. Mandarin is unlikely to supplant English soon as
the primary language of business, said Leigh Hafrey, a senior
lecturer in communications and ethics at the  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology ’s  Sloan School of Management .  “In much the same way that the dollar remains the preferred
currency, English will remain the preferred language for the
foreseeable future,” Hafrey said in a telephone interview.  Mandarin speakers can gain an advantage in doing business
in China, Hafrey said.  “Speaking the language confers a huge advantage for anyone
who wants to do business in a non-English-speaking country,” he
said. “It gives you flexibility, knowledge that you need, and
personal connections that can make a difference in the speed and
effectiveness of your negotiations.”  Spanish, the official language of 20 countries and spoken
by 329 million people, came in fourth, the rankings showed.  Spanish was the top foreign language studied in U.S.
college classrooms in 2009, according to research from the
 Modern Language Association  in  New York . Chinese tallied seventh
by the number of U.S. students enrolled in classes that year,
after Spanish, French, German, American Sign Language, Italian
and Japanese, according to a December 2010  report  by the
association. Arabic was eighth.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Lauerman in  Boston  at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  