-- 
Philippines’ Aquino Seeks $60 Billion, Oil Resolution on First China Trip

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-31T12:51:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/aquino-seeks-60-billion-oil-resolution-on-first-trip-to-china.html
Philippine President Benigno Aquino
and Chinese counterpart Hu Jintao signed an agreement targeting
$60 billion in trade and investment as the Philippines played
down a dispute over the South  China  Sea.  Aquino told Hu the conflict over oil and gas in the
contested waters “requires a regional solution,” Edwin Lacierda, Aquino’s spokesman, told reporters in Beijing after
the meeting. The South China Sea issue “is not the be-all and
end-all of Philippine-China relations,” he said. China, which
claims almost all the sea, has opposed moves to broker a
regional accord and prefers to negotiate with individual
claimants.  The two leaders met today after months of sparring over
rights to exploit energy resources in waters they both claim.
Aquino is seeking closer ties on his first trip to China, his
nation’s largest trading partner and potential source of funds
for the roads, ports and other facilities needed to revive
economic growth that slowed for a fourth straight quarter.  “The  Philippines  is badly in need of foreign direct
investments, particularly in infrastructure,” Jose Camacho,
Asia vice chairman at Credit Suisse Group AG and a former
Philippines’ finance minister, told Bloomberg Television today.
“The best result for President Aquino is a general good feeling
between the Philippines and China so we can then start seeing
investments of Chinese companies in the Philippines.”  The two countries set a target to boost two-way bilateral
trade to $60 billion, Lacierda said today. Two-way trade,
including  Hong Kong , reached $16.1 billion last year, eclipsing
Japanese and U.S. commerce with the Philippines, government
statistics show.  ‘Change in Mindset’  Aquino will also meet with Premier  Wen Jiabao  during the
five-day visit. Earlier today he met officials from State Grid
Corp. of China. The nation’s biggest power distributor is
“looking for projects,” Energy Secretary Rene Almendras said
today in Beijing. After Beijing, Aquino travels to  Shanghai .  “The biggest change between the Philippines under my
administration and under the previous government is a change in
mindset,” Aquino told businessmen in Beijing. “We will not
take shortcuts in order to close deals; we will follow the
correct procedures.”  Aquino is making the first state visit by a Philippine
leader since  Gloria Arroyo ’s in 2004, which paved the way for an
 agreement  on joint seismic surveys in disputed waters between
the Philippines, China and  Vietnam . That accord was abandoned on
concerns it may have been unconstitutional.  A Senate probe of a $329 million contract Arroyo awarded to
Shenzhen, China-based telecommunications company  ZTE Corp. (000063) 
prompted her to cancel the project.  ‘Corruption Allegations’  Arroyo “put the  South China Sea  issue on the back burner
in return for these huge infrastructure and investment deals
from China, all of which collapsed under the weight of
corruption allegations,” said Ian Storey, a fellow at the
Institute of Southeast Asia Studies in  Singapore . “Aquino will
be very keen to avoid a repeat of that.”  China is “ready and willing to add power to the winds” of
the Philippine economy, Chinese Ambassador Liu Jianchao told
reporters in  Manila  on Aug. 24. Philippine exports to China have
more than doubled since January 2009.  Aquino is counting on investment to boost economic growth
that slowed for a fourth straight quarter. Gross domestic
product increased 3.4 percent in the three months through June
from a year earlier, from a revised 4.6 percent in the first
quarter, the National Statistical Coordination Board said today.  Lagging Investments  Net foreign direct investment in the Philippines fell 13
percent to $1.7 billion in 2010 from a year earlier, the central
bank said in March. Between 1970 to 2009, the country lured
$32.3 billion in FDI, compared with $104.1 billion for  Thailand ,
according to  United Nations data .  Higher returns on investments will come from resources
“that have been untapped for such a long time,” Aquino said in
an Aug. 18 interview, citing plans to explore for energy in the
South China Sea. Two of 15 blocks put out for tender in June are
in waters where Chinese vessels chased away a Forum Energy Pcl
survey ship in March, rekindling tensions.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  last year declared a
national interest in the waters, a statement the Foreign
Ministry in Beijing called “virtually an attack on China.”  The Philippines  plans  to boost hydrocarbon reserves by 40
percent in the next two decades. Mineral fuels accounted for 17
percent of total monthly imports on average last year, from 11
percent in 2000, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We want to resolve the conflicting claims so that we can
have our own gas,” Aquino said Aug. 29. “Once we have our own,
we will not be affected by events in other parts of the world.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Guinto in Beijing at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  