-- 
Harry & David Wins U.S. Bankruptcy Court’s Approval of Reorganization Plan

-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 
2011-08-30T13:15:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/harry-david-reorganization-plan-wins-bankruptcy-court-court-confirmation.html
Harry & David Holdings Inc., the
gift-box retailer that has sold fruit by mail since the 1930s,
received approval of its reorganization plan and said it’s set
to emerge from  bankruptcy protection  on Sept. 13.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
yesterday signed the final order approving the plan after giving
her tentative endorsement Aug. 11.  “We’ve reached a significant milestone for Harry & David
and are excited to emerge from the Chapter 11 process as a
stronger company,” Kay Hong, the Medford, Oregon-based
company’s chief restructuring officer and interim chief
executive officer, said today in a statement.  Harry & David’s modified plan resolved the objection of the
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp. over the classification of its
claim. Under the plan, PBGC will get a claim of $36 million and
in return won’t appeal Walrath’s decision to terminate the
pensions of more than 2,700 past and present employees.  PBGC’s claim will get the same cash treatment as unsecured
claims. Unsecured creditors supported the plan, which will pay
them 10 percent of their claims in cash, with 40 percent of that
paid in 2012 and the rest in 2013. Senior noteholders will get
control of the company in exchange for canceling more than $200
million in debt.  Harry & David filed for bankruptcy in March, blaming
competition from Internet retailers and warehouse-style stores
and the recession.  Before filing, the company reached agreement on a
reorganization plan with holders of 81 percent of the senior
notes, including Wasserstein & Co., which also owns 63 percent
of the stock. A Wells Fargo & Co. unit is indenture trustee for
the noteholders.  The case is In re Harry & David Holdings, Inc., 11-10884,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 