-- 
Arsenal Has Bid for Santos Accepted, Lines Up Malouda Move: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-08-30T07:25:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/arsenal-has-bid-for-santos-accepted-lines-up-malouda-move-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Wenger Makes Moves  Arsenal had a 6.2 million-pound ($10.1 million) bid
accepted for Brazilian left-back Andre Santos and has lined up
an 8 million-pound move for Chelsea midfielder Florent Malouda,
the Sun  reported .  The Santos deal has been agreed with  Turkey ’s Fenerbahce
and will be completed if he passes a medical, the Sun said.  Gunners manager Arsene Wenger also offered 7 million pounds
for Chelsea center-back Alex and is keen on his midfield
teammate  Yossi Benayoun , the newspaper added. With the transfer
window closing tomorrow, Wenger hasn’t given up on signing
Bolton defender Gary Cahill, the Sun said.  Silent Treatment  Wenger didn’t speak to his players following Arsenal’s 8-2
Premier League defeat at Manchester United two days ago, the
Daily Mirror  reported .  Senior players had expected to be berated following
Arsenal’s worst English league loss since 1896, though Wenger
was lost for words, the newspaper said.  Board Backing  Arsenal’s board has given Wenger a vote of confidence after
the rout at Old Trafford, the  Daily Telegraph   reported , citing a
senior club source it didn’t identify. The board’s stance that
Wenger’s position is “rock solid” is endorsed by club owner
 Stan Kroenke , the newspaper added.  Still Wanted  Chelsea may return with an improved offer for  Raul Meireles 
after Liverpool rejected an 8 million pounds plus bid for the
Portuguese midfielder, the  Daily Mail   reported .  Although Meireles is out for 10 days with a collarbone
injury, he’s still wanted by Chelsea manager Andre Villas-Boas,
who worked with him at Porto, the newspaper said. Porto wing-
back  Alvaro Pereira , meantime, wants his club to accept
Chelsea’s offer and allow him to be reunited with Villas-Boas,
the Mail added.  Russians Want Vidic  Manchester United  captain Nemanja Vidic is a 25 million-
pound target for Russian club Anzhi Makhachkala, which wants to
follow last week’s signing of Inter Milan striker Samuel Eto’o
by adding a top defender, the Sun  reported .  Anzhi will test United’s resolve with an imminent bid for
Vidic, who cost 7 million pounds from Spartak Moscow in 2006,
the Sun said.  Sunderland Striker  Sunderland will make a club-record bid of 14 million pounds
for Freiburg striker Papiss Demba Cisse, the Mirror  reported .  Black Cats manager  Steve Bruce  is looking to offload some
players to finance the deal for Cisse, who was in talks with
Blackburn Rovers at the start of the transfer window, the Mirror
said. Bruce is also considering taking Manchester United striker
Federico Macheda on loan, the newspaper added.  Tottenham Test  Tottenham is prepared to test  Owen Hargreaves ’s claim that
he can play 40 games a season by giving the former England
midfielder a medical exam this week, the Independent  reported .  Free agent Hargreaves, who has suffered serious knee
problems in his career, gave an interview last weekend in which
he said that he could play 40 games and would “blow people
away,” the Independent added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  