-- 
Maruti Says Losing 30 Million Rupees a Day on Labor Dispute

-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m   a n d   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 
2011-08-30T11:38:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/maruti-suzuki-loses-output-for-second-day-at-manesar-plant.html
Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , the
nation’s biggest carmaker, said it was losing about 30 million
rupees ($651,000) a day at its Manesar factory because of a
labor dispute that has led to a production halt.  The main entrance to the plant near New Delhi was sealed
with tin sheets and guarded by police today. Workers stayed away
for a second day, extending a production halt, after the
automaker yesterday demanded they sign a legally binding pledge
to refrain from disrupting production, the company said today in
an e-mailed statement.  The automaker produces about 1,200 cars a day, including
the Swift hatchback at the plant, which made 270 units on Aug.
25 as workers slowed output against the company’s wishes,
according to a separate statement from the company. Sonu Nehra,
who identified himself as a leader of the protesting workers at
the factory gate today, said the slowdown was not deliberate as
there was a maintenance shutdown of some equipment.  “This is not a good thing for Maruti,” said Umesh Karne,
an analyst at Brics Securities Ltd. in Mumbai, who has a
“reduce” rating on the stock. “This dispute is happening at a
time when manufacturers are expecting sales to pick up after a
few months of decline. The Swift is one of their best selling
models and among the most profitable.”  Other manufacturers may cash in on this disruption and it
may lead to Maruti temporarily losing market share, he said.  The company’s Chief Financial Officer Ajay Seth did not
answer five calls to his mobile phone.  Share Performance  Maruti’s shares were rose 1.1 percent to 1,091.55 rupees at
the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai trading. The shares have declined
23 percent this year, exceeding the 19 percent drop in the
Bombay Stock Exchange’s benchmark Sensex index.  Maruti this month unveiled a new Swift version as
competition from Honda Motor Co.,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and
Volkswagen AG intensify amid rising fuel prices and borrowing
costs. The company had 84,000 orders for the Swift as of
yesterday, according to a notice on the gates of the factory.  “This problem may cause customers to be concerned about
quality in the Swift and other models,” said Surjit Singh Arora,
an analyst with Prabhudas Lilladher Pvt. in Mumbai. who also has
a “reduce” rating on the stock. “I’m sure that the management
will do everything it can to resume production. A stoppage of a
few days will not have a significant impact on the earnings.”  Sales Growth Slumps  Mayank Pareek, Maruti’s sales chief, said Aug. 17 he
expects Maruti’s sales to grow by a “single digit” in the year
ending March, falling short of an earlier forecast of as much as
15 percent expansion.  Maruti yesterday demanded that workers sign a “good
conduct bond” before entering the Manesar factory after five
employees were dismissed and 10 suspended for “deliberately
causing quality problems” last week, according to a statement
from the company yesterday.  In June, workers at the same plant had struck for 11 days
demanding better working conditions and recognition of a trade
union that was independent of the one that represents workers in
both Manesar and the automaker’s other factory.  In a notice posted on the Manesar factory’s gate today, the
company said it had been losing 30 million rupees a day since
resumption of work after the June strike.  “We will form a separate union and fight for reinstatement
of dismissed and suspended workers,” Nehra said today at the
gate.  The carmaker will scale back output of most models this
month because of poor demand, Chairman R.C. Bhargava said Aug.
13. Sales fell for a second month in July.  The company also makes the A-star hatchback and SX4 sedan
at Manesar. It sold 1.13 million vehicles in  India  in the year
ended in March, giving it a 49 percent market share, according
to the  Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net ;
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  