-- 
Asian Currencies Rise as Stock Gains Boost Regional Asset Demand

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-08-30T09:06:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/asian-currencies-rise-as-stock-gains-boost-regional-asset-demand.html
South Korea’s won and the  Singapore 
dollar led gains in Asian currencies as a pickup in U.S.
consumer spending spurred demand for riskier assets, helping
emerging markets attract funds.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of stocks rose for a fourth day
after U.S. consumer spending increased 0.8 percent in July from
the previous month, when it fell 0.1 percent. South Korea’s
current-account surplus widened to a nine-month high of $4.9
billion in July, according to data released yesterday, and
economists surveyed by Bloomberg predict the Bank of Thailand
will tomorrow report the biggest surplus in five months.  The won strengthened 0.2 percent to 1,071.70 per dollar as
of 3 p.m. in Seoul, after gaining 1.3 percent in the last two
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  Singapore
dollar  advanced 0.1 percent to S$1.2067 in offshore trading and
the Chinese yuan reached a 17-year high before trading little
changed at 6.3804. Financial markets are closed in  Indonesia ,
 Malaysia , the  Philippines  and Singapore for holidays.  “Should global equity sentiment continue to show
improvement, as it did yesterday, you will see currency gains
correlating with portfolio inflows,” said  Sacha Tihanyi , a Hong
Kong-based senior currency strategist at Scotia Capital, the
investment banking unit of Bank of Nova Scotia. “The portfolio
flows are key drivers, certainly.”  Asia’s developing economies will expand 8.4 percent this
year, outpacing growth of 2.5 percent in the U.S. and 2 percent
in the euro area, according to  International Monetary Fund 
estimates released in June. India’s gross domestic product rose
7.7 percent last quarter from a year earlier, beating the median
estimate of 26 economists in a Bloomberg News survey for a 7.6
percent gain, a government report showed today.  Stocks Rally  The won rose for a third day as overseas investors bought
more Korean shares than they sold, following net sales of $5.16
billion this month through yesterday. The MSCI Asia Pacific
Index climbed 1.1 percent and the  South Korea ’s Kospi Index
gained 0.8 percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rallied 2.8
percent to its best close in almost a month.  “Overseas stock rallies after the U.S. economic data are
supporting sentiment in the market,” said Yu Won Jun, a
currency dealer with Korea Exchange Bank in Seoul. “Still, won
movements will be limited as both exporters’ and importers’
deals near the end of the month prevent the currency from moving
in one direction.”  The yuan touched 6.3705, its strongest level since the
country unified the official and market exchange rates in 1993,
after policy makers said it’s difficult to keep inflation within
target, fueling speculation the central bank will allow currency
gains to curb price increases.  China ’s Inflation  China’s overall price level may remain high, the National
Development and Reform Commission said in a statement posted on
its website yesterday. Global liquidity and imported inflation
will make it more difficult for the government to meet its aim
of containing consumer-price gains within 4 percent this year,
according to the statement.  “China may not want to deploy interest-rate hikes to deal
with inflation for now on economic-growth risks,” said Tommy
Ong, senior vice-president of treasury and markets at DBS Bank
( Hong Kong ) Ltd. “The government will let the currency
appreciate gradually to ease imported costs.”  Elsewhere, Taiwan’s dollar and India’s rupee were little
changed at NT$29.035 per dollar and 46.06, respectively, while
 Thailand ’s baht slid 0.1 percent to 30.02.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  