-- 
Asian Stocks Climb on Better U.S. Spending; Car Sales Boost Honda, Toyota

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-08-30T10:44:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/asian-stocks-climb-on-better-u-s-spending-car-sales-boost-honda-toyota.html
Asian stocks rose for a fourth day,
set for their longest streak of daily advances since July, after
U.S. consumer spending and car sales increased and as companies
across the region reported higher profit.  Honda Motor Co., the Japanese carmaker that counts the U.S.
as its biggest market, gained 1 percent in  Tokyo .  Aozora Bank
Ltd. (8304)  surged 8.2 percent as  Australia  & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. was said to be considering buying the Japanese lender
controlled by Cerberus Capital Management LP. China Eastern
Airlines Corp., the nation’s third largest carrier by market
value, climbed 2.2 percent after posting profit that beat
analyst estimates.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 1 percent to 123.22 as
of 7:43 p.m. in Tokyo, with almost three stocks rising for each
that fell. The measure snapped four weeks of losses last week on
speculation Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke would
foreshadow measures to shore up the U.S. recovery. Bernanke
didn’t announce new stimulus plans and instead decided to extend
next month’s policy meeting to a second day.  “Today’s price action reflects a sense of relief after the
recent capitulation in share markets,” said Jason Teh, who
helps manage about $3 billion at Investors Mutual Ltd. in
Sydney. “Whereas U.S. economic data points before were
deteriorating, they’re now looking more mixed, and that is
encouraging. While I can’t recall too many companies giving rosy
outlooks, this reporting season has proven satisfactory.”  U.S. Futures  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average advanced 1.2 percent. The
lower house of the nation’s parliament elected Yoshihiko Noda
prime minister today after the ruling Democratic Party of Japan
yesterday chose him to succeed Naoto Kan. As Kan’s finance
minister, Noda advocated an increase in levies to help finance
disaster reconstruction, something opposed by his challengers in
the race.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.6 percent
today. In  New York , the index rose 2.8 percent yesterday after
the reports showing rising consumer spending and incomes
overshadowed a drop in pending home sales, easing concern the
U.S. is slipping into a recession.  Exporters climbed on speculation shipments will increase to
the U.S., the biggest market for Asian-made cars, clothes, toys
and electronics products. Honda Motor increased 1 percent to
2,438 yen. Samsung Electronics Co., South Korea’s biggest
exporter of consumer electronics products, gained 1.2 percent to
742,000 won in  Seoul .  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , a supplier of toys and
clothes to U.S. retailers including Wal-Mart Stores Inc., rose 2
percent to HK$13.56 in  Hong Kong .  Aozora, Sony  India ’s Sensitive Index gained 1 percent after a report
showed the nation’s economy grew 7.7 percent in the second
quarter, beating economist estimates. Markets in  Indonesia ,
 Malaysia , Philippines and Singapore were shut for holiday.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index gained 0.1 percent, while
South Korea’s Kospi Index added 0.8 percent. Hong Kong’s Hang
Seng Index climbed 1.7 percent. China’s Shanghai Composite Index
fell 0.4 percent, erasing gains of as much as 1.5 percent.  Aozora Bank surged 8.2 percent to 211 yen in Tokyo.
Australia & New Zealand Banking, the nation’s third-largest
lender by market value, is considering buying the Japanese
lender as part of a plan to expand in  Asia  and broaden its
funding sources, according to a person familiar with the matter.
ANZ lost 0.2 percent to A$20.18 in Sydney.  Sony Corp., Japan’s biggest maker of televisions by sales,
climbed 3.5 percent to 1,695 yen in Tokyo. The maker of Bravia
Televisions will form a joint venture with Toshiba Corp. and
Hitachi that will become the world’s biggest manufacturer of
liquid-crystal displays, the Yomiuri newspaper reported. Toshiba
gained 2.1 percent to 339 yen, Hitachi while rose 1.2 percent to
411 yen.  Record Profit  Of the 680 companies on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index that
reported net income since July 11, 44 percent surpassed analyst
estimates, while 34 percent fell short, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  China  Eastern Airlines climbed 2.2 percent to HK$3.80 in
Hong Kong. The company said first-half profit increased 30
percent from a year earlier on rising domestic travel and a
stronger yuan, beating analyst estimates.  Jiangxi Copper Co., China’s biggest producer of the metal,
advanced 2.9 percent to HK$21.55 after posting first-half net
income almost doubled to a record on higher prices and output.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 11 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a 3.8 percent loss by the  S&P
500  and a 17 percent drop by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks
in the Asian benchmark were valued at 12 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 12.2 times for the S&P 500
and 9.5 times for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in  Singapore  at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  