-- 
Asia Commodity Day Ahead: U.S. Farm Income Seen Rising to Record

-- B y   D a n i e l   E n o c h
-- 
2011-08-30T21:38:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/asia-commodity-day-ahead-u-s-farm-income-seen-rising-to-record.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Farm Income May Rise 31% to Record as Crop Prices Gain (2)  U.S. farm income will jump 31 percent this year to a record
$103.6 billion because of higher crop and livestock prices, the
government said.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Sugar to Drop as Europe, India Boost Supplies, Kingsman Says (2)  Sugar prices may drop at least 13 percent by early next
year as an increase in supplies from Europe and  Asia  counter a
drop in production in Brazil, according to broker and researcher
Kingsman SA.  Argentine Soy to Be Saved by Cowboy ‘Cavalry,’ Forecaster Says  Argentina ’s corn and soybean crops, which will mostly be
planted between now and January, can combat dry weather from La
Nina because their soil has enough moisture from previous rains,
a forecaster said.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Rises to Three-Week High on U.S. Economic-Growth Outlook  Copper advanced to a three-week high in New York on
speculation that U.S. economic growth will spur demand for
industrial metals.  MINING:  MMX Rises to Four-Week High on Serra Azul Environmental License  MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA, the  iron-ore  miner controlled
by Brazilian billionaire Eike Batista, rose to its highest price
in four weeks after obtaining a preliminary environmental
license to expand its Serra Azul mine.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Rises in  New York  on Expectations Fed Will Continue to Ease  Gold rose in New York on speculation that the Federal
Reserve will ease monetary policy further to stimulate the
economy, boosting the appeal of the precious metal as an
alternative asset.  U.S. Mint Gold-Coin Sales Rise to 104,500 Ounces for August  The U.S. Mint’s sales of American Eagle gold coins rose to
104,500 ounces so far in August, according to figures on the
Mint’s website. That’s the most since May.  AGRICULTURE:  Wheat Drops on Speculation Demand for U.S. Exports May Shrink  Wheat fell for a second straight day on speculation that
demand for U.S. exports may slide as importers seek cheaper
supplies from growers in  Russia  and Eastern Europe.  Cotton Rises on Speculation Over Storm Track;  Orange Juice  Gains  Cotton rose for a third straight session on speculation
that tropical storm Katia will damage crops in the Southeast
this week, following the damage in  North Carolina  from Hurricane
Irene last weekend. Orange juice gained.  Soybeans Rise to Three-Year High on Shrinking Global Supplies  Soybean futures jumped to a three-year high on speculation
that adverse weather will hamper production in the U.S. and
Brazil, the world’s biggest growers.  Corn Rises as Adverse Weather Cuts U.S. Yield Potential  Corn futures rose for the fourth straight session after a
government report showed U.S. crop conditions fell to the lowest
since 2005 after adverse weather during the past two months.  Hog Futures Drop on Weakening U.S. Pork Demand; Cattle Decline  Hogs dropped to a seven-month low on signs of waning U.S.
pork demand. Cattle also fell.  Coffee Rallies as World Supply May Tighten; Cocoa, Sugar Decline  Coffee futures rallied to a three-month high on concern
that global production will fall short of demand. Cocoa and
sugar fell.  Soybeans Rise to Three-Year High on Shrinking Global Supplies  Soybean futures jumped to a three-year high on speculation
that adverse weather will hamper production in the U.S. and
 Brazil , the world’s biggest growers.  SHIPPING:  Commodity Shipping Costs Fall as China Ore Stockpiles at Record  The Baltic Dry Index, a measure of commodity-freight costs,
fell for a third consecutive session as bookings to ship iron
ore from Australia and Brazil declined and stockpiles at Chinese
ports reached an all-time high.  ECONOMIES:  U.S. Economy: Confidence Slumps to Lowest Level Since 2009 (3)  Confidence among U.S. consumers plunged to the lowest level
in more than two years as Americans’ outlooks for employment and
incomes soured.  A Few Fed Policy Makers Favored ‘More Substantial’ Move (3)  A few Federal Reserve policy makers this month favored more
aggressive action to stimulate the economy and lower
unemployment, minutes of their meeting released today showed.  Home Prices in U.S. Showed Signs of Stabilizing in June (3)  Residential real estate prices in the U.S. decreased in the
year ended in June at a slower pace than in the prior month, a
sign the market may be stabilizing.  OTHER MARKETS:  U.S. Stocks Advance as Fed Says Policy Makers Wanted More Action  U.S. stocks rose, rebounding from a 1.2 percent drop in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, after the  Federal Reserve  said some
policy makers wanted to take more action to stimulate the
economy during their meeting this month.  Treasuries, Gold Rise on  Consumer Confidence ; U.S. Stocks Climb  Treasuries and gold rose after consumer confidence sank to
a 28-month low, while U.S. stocks climbed to a four-week high on
speculation the Federal Reserve will enact more stimulus to
safeguard the recovery.  Euro Drops as Prospects Dim for ECB Rate Increases; Yen Advances  The euro weakened against most major counterparts on
speculation the  European Central Bank  has finished raising
 interest rates  as the region’s sovereign-debt crisis curbs
economic growth.  Canada ’s Dollar Trades Near Three-Week High on Revived Risk Bid  Canada’s dollar traded within a cent of a three-week high,
paring an earlier drop as equities and  crude oil  climbed on
speculation U.S. policy makers will act to buttress the economy
if it deteriorates further.  Oil Rises to Highest Level in Almost Four Weeks as Fuels Climb  Oil rose to the highest level in almost four weeks in New
York, advancing with gasoline and heating oil as East Coast
refineries worked to restart after Hurricane Irene and on signs
the housing market is stabilizing.  SPORTS:  Vick’s $100 Million Pact Is ‘Beautiful Thing’ to Creditors (2)  Michael Vick ’s new $100 million contract will allow the Pro
Bowl quarterback to pay off his creditors by 2014, Vick’s
financial adviser and bankruptcy trustee said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Enoch in Washington at 
 denoch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  