-- 
Australia’s Simpler CO2 Plan May Jump Hurdles, Clayton Utz Says

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-08-30T16:57:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/australia-s-simpler-co2-plan-may-jump-hurdles-clayton-utz-says.html
Australia ’s proposal to simplify how
carbon credits are approved in its greenhouse-gas market will
cut factory and power station costs and help the government
overcome political obstacles, lawfirm Clayton Utz said.  The nation’s draft regulations for its Carbon Farming
Initiative will include “positive lists” that spell out what
types of projects will likely be eligible to get offset credits,
said Brendan Bateman, a  Clayton Utz  partner in Sydney. This will
save investors from needing to demonstrate that every project
depends on credits to proceed, he said.  Under the  United Nations ’ Clean Development Mechanism, the
world’s biggest greenhouse-gas offsetting market, investors must
show that their project complies with a methodology that proves
emissions are being cut and that the plan is “additional,”
meaning it could not proceed without the revenue from credits.  Australia has proposed a list of projects that would be
automatically eligible, including permanent new plantings of
trees and re-establishing native vegetation. The country would
allow emitters to use either domestic or international projects
to offset emissions at home, which may be more costly to cut.  The redefinition of eligibility may help win support in
parliament for the nation’s carbon market over the next three
months, Bateman said today in an interview. “To get the
legislation through the lower house, the government requires
support from two independent rural members of parliament,”  Tony Windsor  and  Rob Oakeshott , who have argued for farmer benefits,
he said.  Instructive Plan  Australia’s parliament passed the Carbon Farming Initiative
law on Aug. 23. That legislation is designed to allow farmers to
generate revenue from carbon markets via the proposed Clean
Energy Bill that includes a greenhouse gas trading program
starting July 2015, Bateman said. The government wants to pass
that law by the end of November, he said.  The UN’s Clean Development Mechanism should “definitely”
learn from Australia’s plan to define approved methods for
cutting emissions rather than have to show projects are
infeasible without credits, which boosts transaction costs,
Bateman said.  Australia said Aug. 24 it may introduce further
restrictions of the use of international offsets in its planned
carbon program. The program is designed to start with a fixed
price of A$23 ($24.50) a metric ton of emissions starting in
July next year.  Australia already proposed to ban use of some industrial-
gas emission offset credits, including those from projects that
cut hydrofluorocarbon-23 gas, according to an e-mailed response
to questions by the office of  Greg Combet , the country’s climate
change minister in Canberra, the nation’s capital.  ‘Further Restrictions’  “Further restrictions on the use of international permits
may be added on the advice of the Climate Change Authority, a
new independent body that will be established to advise the
government on key aspects of the carbon-price mechanism,”
according to the statement.  Claims from political opponents in Australia that Labor
Party lawmaker Craig Thomson misused his union credit card to
pay prostitutes might threaten Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s
carbon plan, Bloomberg New Energy Finance said Aug. 24.  “Those who oppose a carbon price have been trying to upend
the government’s precarious 1-vote majority for some time,”
said Seb Henbest, an analyst for New Energy Finance in Sydney.
If the allegations force a regional election, the government’s
carbon price plan is “definitely at risk,” Henbest said Aug.
24 by e-mail.  Power Prices  Forward prices in Australia’s power markets, which now
includes carbon costs, fell last week, suggesting the market may
be betting there’s a higher risk that political instability
derails the carbon plan, analysts at Westpac Banking Corp. said
in an Aug. 26 research note.  “In deciding if this drop is justified, it is worth
bearing in mind that, despite the current noise, most credible
political and constitutional analysts do not foresee any events
in the short term that would be significant enough to prevent
passage of this legislation,” the bank’s analysts, including
Geoff Rousel in Sydney, wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  