-- 
Australia July Building Approvals End Three-Month Decline

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-08-30T01:41:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/australia-july-building-approvals-end-three-month-decline-1-.html
Australian home-building approvals
advanced in July, the first increase in four months, a sign
demand for housing may increase in an economy near full
employment.  The number of permits granted to build or renovate houses
and apartments climbed 1 percent from June, when they fell a
revised 3.6 percent, the Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney
today. That compares with the median forecast for a 2 percent
increase in a Bloomberg News survey of 20 economists.  Australia’s borrowing costs are the highest in the
developed world as the  Reserve Bank  seeks to contain inflation
during the nation’s biggest mining investment boom in more than
a century. Governor Glenn Stevens has kept  interest rates 
unchanged at 4.75 percent for eight straight meetings to gauge
the fallout from  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis and the U.S.
fiscal problems.  “With the likelihood of interest-rate hikes easing through
July and market fundamentals continuing to exert pressure on the
undersupply of housing, pent-up construction plans are expected
to flow through July building approvals,” David Cannington, an
economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., wrote
in a research report before today’s data.  Building approvals fell 15 percent from a year earlier, the
report showed, compared with economists’ forecast for a 12.4
percent drop.  Approvals to build private houses fell 0.2 percent to 7,600
in July from the previous month, the report showed. Permits for
apartments and renovations declined 1.4 percent to 4,173.  Australia ’s higher borrowing costs relative to other
developed-world economies and a mining-investment boom helped
drive the Australian dollar to $1.1081 on July 27, the highest
since exchange controls were scrapped in 1983.  The nation’s jobless rate held at 4.9 percent in April, May
and June before rising to 5.1 percent last month.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  