-- 
Haven Demand Spurs Most Covered Bond Sales in Five Months

-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 
2011-08-30T14:27:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/haven-demand-spurs-most-covered-bond-sales-in-five-months-1-.html
Banks from Britain to Austria and
 France  offered at least 6.15 billion euros ($9 billion) of
covered bonds in the busiest day of sales of the top-rated
securities in almost five months.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s second-largest lender, led issuers
with a 2 billion-euro sale of three-year bonds, while Stockholm-
based  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  and Austria’s  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  also
marketed the debt backed by mortgage or public-sector loans,
according to bankers with knowledge of the deals.  “Clearly there has been a strong build up of liquidity
over a quiet summer,” said Derry Hubbard, the London-based head
of syndication for financial institutions at BNP Paribas SA,
which is working on today’s deals. “Investors are now looking
for well-rated, safe-haven assets.”  The sales contrast with a halt in unsecured debt issuance,
with August poised to end without a single offering for a non-
financial company as the sovereign crisis drives up borrowing
costs. Today’s covered bond issues are the most since March 30
and push this month’s total to about 21.1 billion euros, a 41
percent jump from July, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors are turning to covered bonds as yields on
benchmark German government debt hover near record lows amid
investor concern euro-region creditworthiness is weighing on the
economy. German five-year bonds yield 88 basis points less than
the euro swap rate, close to the widest levels in more than two
years, according to Bloomberg data.  Barclays, Swedbank  London-based Barclays will price its three-year covered
bonds at a yield of 52 basis points more than the swap rate,
according to a banker involved in the transaction, who declined
to be identified because the information is private. The deal is
the largest sale of its kind since BNP Paribas SA raised 2
billion euros from the securities on July 1, Bloomberg data
show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Swedbank will price its four-year bonds to yield 46 basis
points more than the swap rate, while Vienna-based Erste Group
sold seven-year notes backed by public-sector loans at a spread
of about 55 basis points, according to bankers with knowledge of
the deals. Caisse de Refinancement de l’Habitat in Paris priced
1.5 billion euros of 10-year covered bonds at a spread of 85
basis points.  Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen sold 3 billion Danish kroner
($581 million) of covered bonds today, Bloomberg data show.  Covered bonds typically get the highest credit ratings
because they’re backed by assets and guaranteed by the issuer.
Benchmark size transactions are considered by investors to be at
least 500 million euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net :  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  