-- 
Bafin Opposed EFSF Bank Capital Injection Draft EBA Letter

-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-08-30T16:50:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/bafin-opposes-efsf-bank-capital-injection-draft-proposal-by-eba.html
German financial regulator Bafin
opposes a proposal by the European Banking Authority to give
the European Financial Stability Facility the power to
directly inject capital into banks.  Bafin’s representative on the EBA board of supervisors
voted against a draft letter to the council of European finance
and economy ministers containing the proposal, the German
regulator’s spokesman Ben Fischer said in an interview today.  “Bafin is of the opinion that under the EU’s legal regime,
it’s not the task of EBA to handle these kinds of questions,”
said Fischer.  The majority of the 27 EBA members approved the plan, the
 Financial Times Deutschland  reported earlier today, citing an
unidentified person close to the German government. Under its
current setup, EFSF can only grant funds to governments.  “The EBA is not calling for an urgent and massive
recapitalization of EU banks,” the EBA said in an e-mailed
statement. The watchdog is “closely monitoring the risks for EU
banks and submitting to EU institutions its views on possible
policy options.”  The EFSF should only lend to states and not to banks, said
Michael Meister, the senior finance and economy spokesman for
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democrats.  “I see no need to introduce new legal relationships with
the private sector,” Meister told reporters in Berlin today.
“I would make a plea that we stick to extending guarantees for
states.”  Banks should turn to the governments of the countries in
which they have their headquarters, Meister said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net 
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 