-- 
Deutsche Bank, BNP Lawsuits Against BofA Over Losses on Notes Dismissed

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-08-31T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/bank-of-america-wins-dismissal-of-deutsche-bank-bnp-claims.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  won dismissal
of claims by  BNP Paribas Mortgage Corp.  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) 
over hundreds of millions of dollars of losses on asset-backed
notes they bought for more than $1.6 billion.  U.S. District Judge Robert Sweet, in a decision released
yesterday, dismissed claims by BNP Paribas and Deutsche Bank
that Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America illegally
kept loans and loan payments securing the notes.  The notes were issued by a special-purpose entity known as
Ocala Funding LLC, which financed loans originated by Taylor,
Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp., a mortgage lender that collapsed
in 2009. Bank of America served as collateral agent for the
loans.  BNP Paribas, a unit of Paris-based  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, and
Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank filed contract lawsuits against
Bank of America in November 2009. In August 2010, they filed
related conversion suits. Sweet dismissed some of the contract
claims in March. In the decision released yesterday, he threw
out the conversion suits entirely.  Sweet gave BNP Paribas and Deutsche Bank 30 days to file
new complaints.  Robin Henry, a lawyer for BNP Paribas, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message seeking comment on the ruling.
William McDaniels, Deutsche Bank’s lawyer, had no immediate
comment yesterday.  BNP Paribas bought $480.7 million of the notes issued by
Ocala Funding, according to Sweet. Deutsche Bank bought $1.2
billion.  The cases are Deutsche Bank v. Bank of America, 10-cv-
08299, and BNP Paribas Mortgage Corp. v. Bank of America,
10-cv-08630, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  