-- 
Baoshan Profit Drops on Slowing Demand From Automakers

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-30T11:31:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/baoshan-profit-drops-on-slowing-demand-from-automakers-1-.html
Baoshan Iron & Steel Co., China’s
biggest publicly traded steelmaker, said first-half profit
dropped 37 percent because of slowing demand from automakers and
rising prices of  iron ore  and coal.  Net income fell to 5.1 billion yuan ($799 million), or 0.29
yuan a share, in the six months ended June 30 from 8.05 billion
yuan, or 0.46 yuan, a year earlier, the Shanghai-based company
said today in a statement. That trailed the 6.06 billion yuan
average estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Competition and high raw material costs depressed  profit
margins  for China’s key steelmakers to 3.14 percent in the first
half, compared with 3.54 percent a year ago, the China Iron and
Steel Association said this month. Local vehicle sales growth
has slowed this year, limiting steel demand. Baoshan has 50
percent of China’s market for auto steel.  “Baoshan was hit by slowing auto steel demand, which got
worse after  Japan ’s earthquake affected vehicle production,”
said Li Xiaolu, a Shanghai-based analyst with Capital Securities
Co. “Still, Baoshan’s more profitable than other domestic mills
of flat products because its prices usually have a premium to
the rivals.”  Baoshan dropped 0.2 percent to close at 5.33 yuan today in
 Shanghai , taking this year’s loss to 17 percent. The local
benchmark index has fallen 9 percent in the same period.
Baoshan’s revenue gained 13 percent to 111.1 billion yuan in the
first half from a year ago, the statement said.  Angang, Maanshan  Angang Steel Co., the biggest Hong Kong-based steelmaker,
last week said first-half profit tumbled 91 percent from a year
earlier because of higher raw-material costs and slowing demand
from automakers. Maanshan Iron & Steel Co. said first-half
profit fell 70 percent.  Baoshan’s profit margin fell to 9.65 percent in the first
half from 14.79 percent a year ago due to higher costs, the
statement said. The company incurred losses in the heavy plate
and specialty steel sectors during the period.  Prices for iron ore sold by  Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s largest
producer of the steelmaking ingredient, averaged $145.30 a
metric ton during the second-quarter, 58 percent more than a
year earlier, Vale said July 28. Spot prices for 62 percent iron
ore arriving in China’s Tianjin port hit a record $191.90 a ton
in February, according to the Steel Index.  “Steel producers are still facing the pressure of profits
declining in the second half,” the company said in today’s
statement. Baoshan’s third-quarter product prices will be lower
than the second quarter, it said.  Lower Prices  The company cut prices of cold-rolled steel products, used
in cars and appliances, by 300 yuan a ton in May from a month
earlier, and kept them unchanged for April and June deliveries.
Cold-rolled coil accounted for 37 percent of Baoshan’s total
sales volume in the first half, the statement said.  China ’s auto sales have slowed this year after surging 32
percent in 2010 to a record, as the government phased out
incentives and imposed purchase restrictions to curb traffic.
Vehicle sales may rise about 5 percent this year, the automobile
association said on July 8. The trade body previously estimated
10 percent to 15 percent growth.  The average prices of cold-rolled sheets, used in cars and
appliances, in China fell 4.3 percent to 5,617 yuan a ton in the
first half from a year ago. Prices of steel reinforcing bars,
used in construction, gained 19 percent to 4,851 yuan in the
same period, according to Beijing Antaike Information
Development Co.  Baoshan plans to produce 27.1 million tons of steel this
year, the statement said. Revenue is forecast to reach 217.9
billion yuan, it said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  