-- 
Barbosa Mussnich Retakes Post as Top Brazil M&A Lawyer as Deal Volumes Ebb

-- B y   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o
-- 
2011-08-30T03:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/barbosa-mussnich-retakes-post-as-top-brazil-m-a-lawyer-as-deal-volumes-ebb.html
Barbosa, Mussnich & Aragao regained
the top position among legal advisers on Brazilian mergers and
acquisitions this year after helping Telemar Participacoes SA on
its $17 billion corporate restructuring.  Barbosa Mussnich, which fell to third place in the past two
years from No. 1 in 2008, overtook Souza Cescon Barrieu & Flesch
Advogados and Machado Meyer Sendacz e Opice after working on
deals worth 40.7 billion reais ($25.3 billion), or 36 percent of
all transactions announced this year through Aug. 29, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with 32.5 billion
reais, or 22 percent, in the same period a year earlier.  The Telemar deal, the largest in  Brazil  this year, helped
Barbosa Mussnich gain market share as overall volume declined 25
percent in the South American country. Mergers and acquisitions
rose 28 percent globally this year before a market rout
threatened to slow growth and reduce financing. Barbosa Mussnich
expects business to continue to grow as small and medium-sized
companies plan takeovers.  “We’ve had an incredible increase in deals in the past two
years and this year we may see nearly twice as much business as
in 2010,” Francisco Mussnich, one of the firm’s 38 partners in
a team of 270 people, said in an interview at Barbosa Mussnich’s
headquarters in  Rio de Janeiro . “There is more competition as
well, but the number of deals is rising.”  M&A in Brazil, the world’s second-largest developing
economy after  China , declined to 111.4 billion reais in 379
transactions announced this year through yesterday, down from
147.9 billion reais in 361 deals over the same period a year
earlier. That compares with $1.66 trillion worldwide, up from
$1.32 trillion in the same period a year earlier.  Equity Slump  Before today, Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa index tumbled 21
percent this year, the worst performance among the world’s
biggest equity markets. The index entered a so-called  bear
market  on July 27 after plunging 20 percent from its bull-market
peak in November.  Barbosa Mussnich, which advised Banco BTG Pactual SA on its
450 million-real purchase of Banco Panamericano SA, plans to
hire 20 lawyers this year for its M&A team of 100 advisers on
expectation the number of deals it will handle will almost
double from 39 last year, Mussnich said.  Among financial advisers, Banco Itau BBA SA is leading the
ranking with 20 deals worth 51.1 billion reais, rising from the
seventh position last year. Billionaire  Andre Esteves ’s BTG
Pactual maintained the third position with 17 deals valued at
42.9 billion reais so far this year. Rothschild, which led last
year’s financial advisers ranking, fell to sixth this year,
while Credit Suisse Group AG rose to second from fourth place.  Not M&A  BTG and  Barbosa Mussnich  worked together in at least four
deals this year, according to Bloomberg data.  The three largest deals in 2011, including the Telemar
transaction, were corporate restructurings, while all the top
ten deals over the same year-earlier period were acquisitions,
Bloomberg data show.  Additionally, the risk that foreign financing for takeovers
may dry up is increasing as markets worldwide tumble, said Luiz Leonardo Cantidiano, former president of Brazil’s securities
regulator and partner at Sao Paulo-based law firm Motta,
Fernandes e Rocha Advogados. Still, M&A deals in Brazil may
reach record volumes this year as companies seek to expand
through acquisitions, Cantidiano said in an Aug. 3 interview.  Private Equity Deals  Mergers and acquisitions involving private equity firms are
helping increase the number of deals in Brazil even as total
volumes decline, said Cristina Cescon, a partner at Souza Cescon
Barrieu & Flesch Advogados. Itau Unibanco Holding SA’s Kinea
investment firm bought a minority stake in car-rental firm
Unidas SA for 100 million reais in June and the  Carlyle Group 
acquired a controlling stake in Brazilian health-insurance
brokerage Grupo Qualicorp, valued at 3.5 billion reais.  “The whole private equity world wants to be in Brazil,”
Cescon said in an Aug. 9 telephone interview from Sao Paulo.
“The strategic investors are getting into smaller deals, buying
smaller firms as part of consolidation efforts.”  Machado Meyer expects the number of deals it will advise on
to double this year because the global market rout won’t prevent
investors from buying assets in Brazil, said Mauro Cesar Leschziner, a partner at the firm.  “I don’t see my clients backing out of deals in Brazil
because the global scenario isn’t so positive right now,”
Leschziner said in a telephone interview from  Sao Paulo  Aug. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adriana Brasileiro in Rio de Janeiro at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  