-- 
Barclays Forms $163 Million Renewable Energy Fund for U.K. Farms

-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 
2011-08-30T15:05:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/barclays-forms-163-million-renewable-energy-fund-for-u-k-farms.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s second-
largest lender by assets, created a 100 million-pound ($163
million) fund to support renewable energy farm projects.  The fund was developed with the National Farmers Union
after a Barclays survey found that 37 percent of the U.K.’s
200,000 farmers are seeking to cut their energy bills and
generate income using renewable energy, the London-based bank
said today in a  statement .  The U.K. reduced the incentives it pays to developers of
large solar projects this year and is shifting its focus to
funding smaller residential and commercial projects. The
government aims to generate 15 percent of the country’s energy
from renewable sources by 2020.  Farmers “are looking forward to many further years of
lower energy costs and a potentially new income as they sell
energy back to the grid,” Travers Clarke-Walker, a product and
marketing director for Barclays, said in the statement.  The average size of solar, wind and hydroelectric projects
likely to receive financing through the fund will be 44
kilowatts, Barclays spokesman Michael O’Toole said in a
telephone interview. The bank expects the costs of wind and
solar projects to fall by half in the next three to five years
and may increase its investments in renewable power. It bought
Aug. 11 an 85 percent stake in a 26-megawatt wind farm in
eastern  England .  Barclays surveyed 300 dairy farmers in England,  Scotland 
and  Wales  this month and 60 percent said they expect renewable
energy to generate revenue for their businesses, according to
the statement.  Some are already doing so. Renewable energy “looked like a
good investment because of government feed-in tariffs and we
wanted to offset some of our business costs,” Andrew Hawkey,
58, a third-generation farmer from Cornwall, said in an
interview.  Barclays financed a 250-kilowatt ground-mounted solar farm
that’s in operation now on Hawkey’s land near Wadebridge, and he
wants to borrow 120,000 pounds to add another 50 kilowatts of
capacity. He said the solar panels may cut his power bills by
about 30 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 Klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  