-- 
Bonds Seeks to Avoid Prison Term on Steroids Probe Obstruction Conviction

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-12-07T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/barry-bonds-to-be-sentenced-dec-16-for-obstruction-of-justice-conviction.html
Barry Bonds ,  Major League Baseball ’s
career home-run record holder convicted of obstructing a U.S.
probe of steroid use by professional athletes, asked a judge to
sentence him to probation and not prison.  Lawyers for the former  San Francisco Giants  left fielder
said in a filing yesterday that they agreed with a court pre-
sentencing report recommending the lesser sentence. Bonds’s
“history of good works” and other factors justify a sentence
of probation, according to the filing in federal court in San
Francisco. Bonds is scheduled to be sentenced on Dec. 16.  Only one of four people convicted in a federal
investigation of steroid use among professional athletes, former
track star  Marion Jones , received a prison sentence, the lawyers
said. The maximum sentence for obstruction of justice is 10
years in prison.  The court report recommends probation, a period of home
confinement, location monitoring and community service directed
at youth-related activities, Bonds’s attorneys said in the
filing. Bonds doesn’t believe the recommended period of location
monitoring is necessary, they said. The filing doesn’t disclose
the length of probation or monitoring recommended for Bonds by
the court’s probation department.  ‘Celebrity Child’  Bonds, 47, was convicted of obstruction for his response
before a federal grand jury when asked if his trainer,  Greg Anderson , ever gave him anything that required a syringe for
injection. Bonds didn’t immediately say yes or no and in a 146-
word response, he spoke about being a “celebrity child” who
didn’t “get into other people’s business.”  Jurors were unable to agree in April on whether Bonds lied
when he told a grand jury in 2003 that he didn’t knowingly take
steroids, didn’t take human growth hormone and didn’t receive
injections from Anderson. A mistrial was declared on those
counts.  Bonds broke  Hank Aaron ’s record of 755 career home runs in
August 2007. He was indicted the following November on charges
of lying to the grand jury.  Bonds’s attorneys said at trial that he truthfully
testified that he received performance-enhancing substances from
Anderson without knowing what they were because the drugs were
new at the time and Anderson told him one was flaxseed oil.  The case is U.S. v. Bonds, 07-00732, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  California  ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  