-- 
Basketball Seeks Support in Soccer-Mad Britain Before 2012 Summer Olympics

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-08-30T23:00:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/basketball-seeks-support-in-soccer-mad-britain-before-2012-summer-olympics.html
Basketball is an afterthought in
soccer-mad Britain, where professional teams sometimes have to
share gym practice space with badminton games as the sport’s two
national squads prepare for their first Olympic appearance since
1948.  As host of the 2012  London  Summer Games, the British men’s
basketball team led by  Chicago Bulls  forward  Luol Deng  and its
women’s team will be included in the field. Still, most of their
countrymen don’t know Britain has a pro basketball league.  “If you asked them to name a team, they’d say the Harlem
Globetrotters,” Mike Davies, alliances director of the British
Basketball League, said in a telephone interview.  The British men’s team, which qualified for the 24-nation
European championships that begin today in  Lithuania , ranks 56th
in the International Basketball Federation’s world  rankings ,
below  Mali  and  Cape Verde . The British women don’t even make
FIBA’s list.  The country lacks basketball traditions, such as the
college rivalries familiar in the U.S.  “For university games, we might get somebody’s girlfriend
out to watch,” said Henry Wilkins, 20, who plays guard for a
local basketball club as well as for Leeds Metropolitan
University.  The biggest-drawing team in the British Basketball League,
the Newcastle Eagles, averages about 2,500 fans a game. That’s
fewer than the attendance for fourth-division English soccer
league teams, and can make finding and keeping a venue
difficult.  “To be honest, they could probably make more money from
one night with a well-known pop singer than if they have 20 home
games with us throughout the season,” Davies said.  Manchester United , the record 19-time English soccer
champion, attracts more than 76,000 fans per game to its Old
Trafford stadium, while the English national squad’s home,
Wembley in north London, can hold 90,000 for soccer and rugby.  Insurance Costs  Britain also faces insurance woes caused by the National
Basketball Association lockout, which is forcing international
teams to pick up a bigger share of costs. Britain couldn’t
afford insurance for the European championships for Detroit
Pistons guard Ben Gordon, who was born in London.  Because of the labor dispute, national teams would have to
pay all of an NBA player’s insurance, rather than sharing those
costs. That would have meant a potential cost of 120,000 pounds
($195,000) or more for Gordon from a national team that has an
annual budget of 2 million pounds, said Chris Spice, performance
director for British Basketball.  “We paid about a third the price, for better coverage”
before the lockout, Spice said in an interview following
Britain’s 96-70 exhibition win against the Netherlands on Aug.
7. Spice said he hopes the NBA labor dispute will be settled or
outside funding can be obtained to allow Gordon to play in the
Olympics next July.  Games Host  The last time Britain competed in basketball at the
Olympics was in 1948, when the Summer Games also were held in
London. The men’s team finished 20th of 23, beating only
Ireland, after warmup contests against squads such as the YMCA.  “It was a different world,” said Lionel Price, 84, a
retired industrial developer who still lives in London. “We
were happy to win, but if you didn’t, it was no big deal.”  The British men’s and women’s basketball teams have the
same goal -- reach the quarterfinals in 2012 and then play well
enough to qualify for the 2016 Rio de Janeiro Olympics.  “It’s time we qualify on our own right,” said Julie Page,
the 28-year-old captain of the women’s team and a Manchester,
England, native who attended Eastern  Washington  University in
Cheney, Washington.  A British women’s team including members of the Olympic
squad went 1-4 at the World University Games this month in
Shenzhen,  China , including an 85-33 loss to the U.S. team that
won the gold medal.  Warmup Win  The men’s team posted a 1-4 record at a warmup tournament
at London’s Olympic Park this month, defeating China and losing
by one point to  Australia  and two points to  Serbia .  “We want to compete, we want to prove to the world that we
belong,” said Pops Mensah-Bonsu, a 27-year-old forward who’s
played for teams ranging from the NBA’s  Toronto Raptors  to
 Italy ’s Benetton Treviso. “You come out to support us, and
we’ll show you we’re legitimate.”  Price, the last surviving member of the 1948 Olympic
basketball team, met the members of the current British squad
and looks forward to watching them play next year.  “I don’t think they’ll win a medal, but they’re very
enthusiastic and a nice bunch of chaps,” he said. “I told
them, it’s not the winning and the losing, but being able to
play. They’ll never be able to take that away from them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  