-- 
Burning BMW Turns Battle for Richest Irishman’s Empire Violent

-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e   a n d   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 
2011-08-30T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/battle-for-richest-irishman-s-empire-turns-violent.html
The  torching  of a BMW car on a
driveway in a quiet Irish housing estate this month marked the
moment the battle over the empire of the country’s former
richest man turned more violent.  The vehicle belonged to Paul O’Brien, appointed in April to
run Quinn Group after the ouster of Sean Quinn, the entrepreneur
who built the company into one of the country’s biggest
employers. The Aug. 8 attack in County Meath, condemned by Quinn
and his supporters, followed more minor incidents such as
severing  power lines  and blocking office entrances.  “When it’s petty stuff, it’s wrong but harmless enough, it
happens in many similar situations,” said John Maguire,
spokesman for the Concerned Irish Business Group, a lobby group
set up to support Quinn after he was removed by creditor Anglo
Irish Bank Corp. “But when it gets to personal threats, arson,
it’s on a different level.”  The rise and fall of Quinn mirrors that of Ireland, once
western  Europe ’s most dynamic economy and now forced to rely on
financial aid from its euro partners.  Quinn, 63, lost control of his business group, spanning
building materials to insurance and real estate. Quinn has said
he lost more than 1 billion euros ($1.45 billion) investing in
Anglo Irish, once among Ireland’s biggest banks and now being
wound-down after a 29.3 billion-euro bailout by the government.  “Certain people want the new management out and the
original management restored,” O’Brien told Dublin-based
broadcaster  RTE  after his car was torched. Through spokesmen,
O’Brien and Quinn declined to be interviewed for this story.  Local Hero  Nobody has claimed responsibility for the incident and a
police spokesman said by telephone on Aug. 26 that officers are
still investigating.  In 2008, Quinn and his family were estimated by Forbes
magazine to be worth about $6 billion. At its peak,  Quinn Group 
had 8,000 workers Europe-wide and the company was the biggest
employer in the region where Ireland borders  Northern Ireland .  “I’ve been driving up and down to this area for the last
30 years and it would be empty and desolate,” said Maguire, who
had a reinsurance business with Quinn for the last eight years.
“Now, there are traffic jams, houses, and restaurants, and
that’s thanks to Quinn. He invested in one of the most
impoverished areas in Europe when no-one else wanted to.”  Village Life  Born in Derrylin, County Fermanagh, in Northern Ireland,
Quinn started out by selling gravel and sand from his father’s
farm near the border with the south, according to “The
FitzPatrick Tapes: The Rise and Fall of One Man, One Bank and
One Country,” by Tom Lyons and Brian Carey, a book on the
collapse of  Anglo Irish  that details the links with Quinn.  The one-street village remains the center of the group. The
cement and glass manufacturing factories he once controlled are
nearby, as is his insurance business, which is close to being
sold to Liberty Mutual Group Inc.  “The man was badly treated,” said James Lowther, a 63-
year-old semi-retired businessman in the village. “He has a
great reputation around here. Ask any of the workers and they’ll
tell you he was a great man to work for.” Lowther called the
vandalism “just crazy.”  Since the ousting of Quinn, electricity poles have been
damaged, five company vehicles set alight and the entrance of
the company’s headquarters blocked with a large dumper truck,
 the Irish Times  reported. A spokesman for the company said the
list was accurate.  ‘Big Gamble’  “He took an awful big gamble,” said John Travers, 55, an
electrical engineer, speaking in Derrylin. “Sometimes gambles
don’t pay off. But he has provided so much for this place, it
was a dead area.”  Quinn said in an Aug. 11 e-mailed statement from his
spokesman that he “reiterates his unequivocal condemnation of
the ongoing sabotage.” In an earlier statement, Quinn said he
had “no knowledge” of who was behind the attacks.  Meanwhile, the battle for control of the business empire
continues in the Irish courts.  Quinn’s wife Patricia and his five children lodged a High
Court action in May seeking damages against Anglo Irish over
alleged negligence and breach of duty. The Quinns also are
challenging the appointment of the receiver.  Anglo Irish, which reported last week that its first-half
loss narrowed to 105 million euros from 8.2 billion euros, has
said it will defend the cases “vigorously.”  “Our view is that the most productive path that can be
taken is to have everyone focus on making these strong-
performing businesses stronger because that’s the best path to
protecting employment in the region,”  Mike Aynsley , chief
executive officer of the bank, told reporters on Aug. 26.  For now, the estate in Meath has returned to normality,
after the charred remains of the BMW were removed. The new
executives at Quinn have vowed not to give up.  “The personal nature of this cowardly attack represents a
serious crossing of the line,” the company said in a statement
on its website on Aug. 9. “We will not be intimidated by the
actions of a small group of thugs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dara Doyle in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net ;
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.n  