-- 
Belarus Struggles With Meat Shortage as Russians Exploit Currency Plunge

-- B y   A l i a k s a n d r   K u d r y t s k i
-- 
2011-08-31T10:09:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/belarus-runs-out-of-meat-amid-currency-plunge.html
Belarus’s supermarkets are running
out of meat as Russians take advantage of a currency crisis that
a devaluation and the world’s highest borrowing costs have
failed to stem.  “All meat has gone to  Russia ,” Alexander Andreyevich, an
82-year-old former tractor-plant worker, said Aug. 25 in Minsk,
the capital. “My relatives near the Russian border called me a
few days ago and said the shops are empty.”  Belarus is grappling with a balance-of-payments crisis that
forced a 36 percent devaluation of its ruble in May. It may need
to raise $12 billion by 2013 through state-asset sales and
international bailout loans to stave off economic collapse,
Moody’s Investors Service said Aug. 23.  The crisis has sparked protests as Belarusians vent their
anger at President  Alexander Lukashenko , dubbed  Europe ’s last
dictator by the administration of former U.S. President  George W. Bush . While the authorities have sought to control food costs
to quell public discontent, buyers from neighboring Russia have
pushed meat prices higher.  “Private stall owners simply go and buy meat from state-
owned vendors and sell it a couple of steps away for a hefty
profit,” Deputy Agriculture and Food Minister Vasily Pavlovsky
told reporters in Minsk Aug. 24.  The government banned individuals in June from taking basic
 consumer goods  such as home appliances, food and gasoline out of
the country. Russians, buoyed by the removal of border
checkpoints July 1 as part of a  customs union , have circumvented
the restrictions.  Free Float  Belarus will allow the ruble to float from mid-September
and will remove restrictions on depositors seeking to exchange
local currency for dollars and euros, Lukashenko said yesterday.  “The Belarusian ruble’s exchange rate will be determined
by supply and demand, as with any other commodity,” he told the
government and central bank, according to the Belta news
service. “We will not support the exchange rate artificially.”  Lukashenko pledged Aug. 25 to curb rising prices and
increase pensions and wages to keep pace with inflation.
Demonstrations after a 30 percent increase in gasoline prices on
June 7 resulted in arrests and prompted the Belarusian leader to
reverse the decision the following day.  Even so, Anton Dolgovechny, head of the  Economy Ministry ’s
macroeconomic forecasting department, announced the next day
that state spending would be cut by about $2 billion in 2011,
Belta reported.  Deficit, Reserves  Belarus’s current-account deficit reached 16 percent of
gross domestic product in 2010 after the government raised
public wages and pensions. Gold and foreign-exchange reserves
fell 22 percent to $4.2 billion in the year to August under
 International Monetary Fund  methodology as the central bank
sought to support the ruble.  The bank has raised its refinancing rate by 16.5 percentage
points since January, making borrowing costs the highest among
50 countries tracked by Bloomberg. The latest increase to 27
percent from 22 percent is effective Sept. 1, the bank said
yesterday on its website.  Belarus was granted a $3 billion loan by the Russia-led
Eurasian Economic Community in June. A bailout from the IMF may
be blocked by the U.S. and European Union, which have imposed
sanctions on Belarus over its human-rights record, Lukashenko
said June 17.  State assets to be offered to replenish reserves include
potash maker  Belaruskali  and the Beltransgaz gas pipeline
operator.  The yield on Belarus’s dollar bond due 2015 advanced 6
basis points to 14.167 percent today, compared with 7.69 percent
on Jan. 13, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Health Spas  As well as meat, services are also attracting Russians, who
make up one in two visitors at the ‘Lode’ spa 160 kilometers
(100 miles) north of Minsk and prefer luxury suites, a
representative of the resort, Natalya Varvantseva, said Aug. 26
by phone.  Many of them pay with Russian rubles or dollars, the
scarcity of which has pushed black-market exchange rates far
below the central bank’s official 5,061 rubles per dollar.  The unofficial rate slipped to 9,900 by Aug. 25, according
to a survey of companies offering foreign currency conducted by
Infobank.by, a financial-news website.  Prokopovi.ch , a service
that matches buyers and sellers of foreign currency online,
quoted 8,842 rubles per dollar yesterday.  The only legal way for citizens to obtain foreign currency
is by waiting at licensed exchange booths, where queues often
exceed a hundred and the names of people who have left their
details on previous visits are called daily.  ‘Structural Reforms’  The ruble may depreciate as much as 25 percent against the
dollar by the end of September before currency inflows from
loans and state-asset sales allow it to recoup the “temporary”
losses,  Julia Tsepliaeva , head of research at BNP Paribas SA in
Moscow, said by e-mail yesterday.  “Further structural reforms are still needed to get
Belarus out of crisis mode and to ensure sustainable economic
growth in the future,” Alexei Moiseev and Dmitry Fedotkin,
economists at VTB Capital in Moscow, said in an e-mailed note
today. The economy may expand 1.5 percent in 2011 before
shrinking 5.2 percent next year, VTB said Aug. 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aliaksandr Kudrytski in Minsk at 
 akudrytski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  