-- 
Birla Sun Life Raises Cash Holdings as India Enters Bear Market, CIO Says

-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 
2011-08-30T12:18:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/birla-sun-life-raises-cash-holdings-as-india-enters-bear-market-cio-says.html
Birla Sun Life Asset Management Co.,
 India ’s fifth-biggest money manager, increased its cash level as
the nation’s stocks entered a bear market this month amid a rout
in global equities.  Birla Sun Life, which raised its cash holdings to about 8
percent from 5 percent three months ago, may use the funds to
“catch certain stocks when there is a sharp correction in the
market,” Mahesh Patil, who oversees about $3 billion in stocks
as co-chief investment officer, said yesterday in an interview
in Mumbai. He declined to say when he would deploy the money.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex, has
slid 21 percent from its Nov. 5 peak, more than the 20 percent
level that marks a  bear market , on concern the U.S. is slowing
and Europe’s debt crisis may worsen. Companies on the measure
trade at 13.9 times future profits, near the lowest level since
April 2009, and down from 21.5 times in March 2010.  “Markets seem to be discounting most of the concerns and
valuations are below long-term averages,” said Patil, whose
firm has $14.7 billion in total assets.  The  Reserve Bank of India  has raised rates 11 times since
the start of last year to cool the fastest inflation among the
BRICS nations of  Brazil ,  Russia , India,  China  and  South Africa .
That contrasts with nations from  Japan  to  Switzerland  which are
trying to support expansion.  “Looking at a slowdown globally and other central banks
going in for a loose monetary policy, I think the  Reserve Bank 
will also look at its stance,” said Patil. “Concerns about
inflation and  interest rates  will ease in the next two-to-three
months. After that, it all boils down to the rate at which the
economy will grow and how things will pick up.”  Record Tightening  India’s economy  grew 7.7 percent in the quarter ended June
30, the government said today. That beat the 7.6 percent median
of 26 estimates in a Bloomberg survey and maintains pressure on
the central bank to extend its tightening measures at its Sept.
16 meeting. Its policy makers have forecast the economic growth
of about 8 percent in the year to March from 8.5 percent in the
previous 12 months.  Earnings for 46 percent of Sensex companies missed analyst
estimates in the June quarter, compared with 33 percent that
trailed forecasts in the previous three months, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Morgan Stanley this month pared its year-end
target for the stock gauge by 15 percent to 18,850, and CLSA
Asia-Pacific Markets cut its estimate to 18,200 from 19,500,
citing slower economic and profit growth.  ‘Earnings Visibility’  “Despite the downgrades, we are still looking at 13-to-14
percent earnings growth and that gives us more support to invest
at these levels,” said Patil. “We are focusing on companies
with strong balance sheets, and where there’s clear visibility
of earnings and sustainability of earnings growth.”  The Sensex jumped 1.6 percent to 16,676.75 at the 3:30 p.m.
close, the steepest two-day gain since July 2009.  Birla Sun Life Frontline Equity Fund, managed by Patil, has
beaten 90 percent of its peers in the past five years, according
to Bloomberg data. It has returned 13.4 percent annually during
the period, compared with the BSE-200 Index’s 9 percent advance.
Lenders including ICICI Bank Ltd., the nation’s biggest outside
state control, made up 18 percent of the 29 billion-rupee fund
as of June 30, the data show.  Bharti Airtel Ltd., India’s biggest mobile phone operator,
accounted for 3.7 percent of the Frontline Equity Fund on June
30, the data show. The stock has jumped 24 percent in the past
year, compared with 11 percent drop in the BSE-200 Index.  Patil favors large-cap software makers because they have
“strong balance sheets” and can better withstand a slowdown in
the global economy. The industry made up 9.3 percent of the
fund, and the nation’s biggest technology companies, Tata
Consultancy Services and Infosys Ltd., were among top holdings.  “Visibility for fiscal year ending March 2013 is still not
clear looking at the current macro environment in  Europe  and the
U.S.,” he said. “We would avoid small and mid-sized software
names in the current environment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  