-- 
Bloomberg Sports Launches Improved Fantasy Football Tools

-- B y  
-- 
2011-08-30T17:47:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/bloomberg-sports-launches-improved-fantasy-football-tools.html

Press Release  NFL Veteran, fantasy football aficionado Maurice Jones-Drew,
announcer/analyst Anita Marks added as spokespeople For
“Decision Maker” product team  NEW YORK -- Bloomberg Sports today announced the launch of their
newly enhanced and improved Decision Maker 2011, a web-based and
mobile interactive fantasy football application that uses
Bloomberg’s state-of-the art advanced analytic tools to advise
fantasy football players on their best starting lineup each
week.  The company also announced that  Jacksonville Jaguars 
running back Maurice Jones-Drew - well known for his fantasy
football expertise - will be working with Bloomberg Sports to
highlight the analytical strengths of the Decision Maker tools.
In addition, WFAN sports radio personality Anita Marks, who is
part of the NY Giants broadcast team and also hosts fantasy
football shows on SiriusXM, will also be working as spokesperson
for Bloomberg Sports.  “Decision Maker was very popular last year because it offered
quick, fact-driven sit-start answers, and gave a deeper analysis
for players who wanted it.  And of course our unique volatility
assessment - with its risk/reward score -- was a big hit,” said
Bill Squadron, head of Bloomberg Sports. “We spent the off
season working on some additional features that we think fantasy
players are going to enjoy, especially the ability to vote on
match-ups themselves.”  This season’s product includes all the features that users came
to depend on last season, plus two new additions.   The new
features include a crowd polling tool that will allow users to
vote on the most compelling weekly match-ups and then see the
aggregated results of all Decision Maker users.  The product
will also provide pre-season and draft value by including
season-long projections.  With the renewed partnership between Bloomberg Sports and
National Football League Players Incorporated, Decision Maker
will again include likenesses of NFL players throughout the
product.  Fans wishing to get additional fantasy football advice
from Jones-Drew can also tune in to his show on SiriusXM Runnin’
with MJD or follow him on twitter (@Jones_Drew32).  Decision Maker - while driven by extremely detailed, fact-based,
historical calculations - is very quick and simple to use.  It
provides fantasy players with the key answers they need to make
their choices each week.  The players are ranked by a system
using complex formulas applied to three years of data, updated
based on recent performance and other factors such as the
opposing defense that week and the weather forecast at that
week’s venue.  Decision Maker also has a unique technology-
driven Risk/Reward Index, analyzing consistency of the
scrutinized NFL players and pointing to long shot opportunities
for players whose performance tends to be most unpredictable.  Decision Maker 2011 is available at www.bloombergsports.com for
use by all fantasy football players using any fantasy provider.
The mobile Decision Maker apps are now available in the iTunes
store for the iPhone and iPad.  Decision Maker was one of the
top selling football apps in 2010.  For more information on Bloomberg Sports, please visit
 http://www.bloombergsports.com  and follow us on Twitter
(@BloombergSports) and Facebook.  About Bloomberg Sports  Launched in 2010, Bloomberg Sports takes the tools developed by
Bloomberg, the leading global provider in data and analytics,
and applying applies them to the vast data analysis
opportunities in sports.  Working with MLB.com and NFL.com,
Bloomberg Sports fantasy products give fans the most powerful
resources as they draft and manage their fantasy teams.
Additionally, Bloomberg Sports provides a professional product
that delivers Major League Baseball clubs with a secure,
virtually unlimited set of analytical functions to assist them
in personnel evaluation and performance matchups.  For more
details, please visit  http://www.bloombergsports.com .  About Bloomberg  Bloomberg is the world’s most trusted source of information for
financial professionals and businesses.  Bloomberg combines
innovative technology with unmatched analytic, data, news,
display and distribution capabilities, to deliver critical
information via the Bloomberg Professional service and
multimedia platforms.  Bloomberg’s media properties span
television, radio, digital and print, making up one of the
world’s largest news organizations with more than 2,300 news and
multimedia professionals at 146 bureaus in 72 countries.  Contact for Bloomberg:  Silvia Alvarez, +1 212-617-3707,  salvarez13@bloomberg.net 
