-- 
Brazil Crystal Sugar 2% More Profitable Than Exports, Cepea Says

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-08-30T10:27:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/brazil-crystal-sugar-2-more-profitable-than-exports-cepea-says.html
Crystal sugar sales in  Brazil  were
on average 2 percent more profitable than exports last week,
down from a 7 percent advantage the previous week as demand
slowed, said Cepea, a University of Sao Paulo research group.  The price of crystal sugar, which accounts for 68 percent
of all the sweetener sold within Brazil, fell 0.7 percent to
67.59 reais ($42.47) a 50-kilogram (110-pound) bag last week,
data from Cepea compiled by Bloomberg showed.  “Purchasers are buying only when necessary,” Cepea
analyst Heloisa Lee Burnquist, said in a report dated yesterday.  Prices fell in the domestic and international markets last
week even as sugar cane output in Brazil’s main producing region
dropped, Cepea said in the report, adding that the crop may be
below 500 million metric tons. Brazil’s Center South cane
production was 556.9 million tons last season, data from
industry group Unica showed.  White, or refined sugar, fell 0.8 percent on NYSE Liffe in
 London  last week, while the raw variety slid 2.4 percent on ICE
Futures U.S. in  New York  in the same period.  Crystal sugar sales were 41 percent more profitable last
week than anhydrous ethanol, the type blended into gasoline, and
54 percent more advantageous than sales of the hydrous kind,
used in flex-fuel cars, Cepea said. Both ethanol and sugar are
made from sugar cane in Brazil.  Crystal sugar has an International Commission for Uniform
Methods of Sugar Analysis level of between 130 and 180,
according to the Cepea website. A lower level corresponds to a
higher degree of whiteness. Refined sugar futures traded on NYSE
Liffe call for an ICUMSA level of 45.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 