-- 
CCR Gains After Disclosing Plans to Enter Airport Industry

-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 
2011-08-30T20:30:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/brazil-s-ccr-gains-after-saying-it-may-enter-airport-industry.html
Cia. de Concessoes Rodoviarias,
 Brazil ’s biggest toll-road operator, gained the most in one week
after saying it’s considering the possibility of entering the
airport industry in  Latin America .  Shares advanced 1.6 percent to 46.13 reais at the close of
Sao Paulo trading at 4:15 p.m. New York time, the most since
Aug. 24. The Bovespa index rose 1 percent.  If CCR’s board decides to start operating airports, the
company may acquire stakes its controlling shareholders Andrade
Gutierrez SA and Camargo Correa SA already own in airports in
 Ecuador ,  Costa Rica  and Brazil, according to a regulatory
filing.  “The transaction is more meaningful from a strategic than
from a financial standpoint,” J.P.Morgan analysts Fernando Abdalla and Ricardo Rezende wrote in a note dated yesterday.
“We believe that such diversification makes sense given that,
despite airport traffic not being as resilient as toll roads’,
it is still pretty predictable.”  The acquisition would account for 1 percent to 2 percent of
CCR’s market cap at best, Credit Suisse Group AG’s analysts
Bruno Savaris and Lucas Saraiva wrote in a note to clients.
“Yet, while we still lack further details about potential
valuation levels for the acquisition, the implications from this
transaction are far more relevant as it opens new growth avenues
for the company within the infrastructure sector,” they wrote.  CCR will have an independent committee to analyze the plan,
which then will need shareholder approval to go through, the
company said in the filing. Andrade Gutierrez and Camargo Correa
won’t vote on the matter, according to the filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  