-- 
Brazil Soybean Planting Threatened by Dry Spell, Oil World Says

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-08-30T13:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/brazil-soybean-planting-threatened-by-dry-spell-oil-world-says.html
Brazil ’s soybean planting is being
threatened by dry weather in northern and central growing states
that’s cutting soil moisture, Hamburg-based researcher Oil World
said.  Dryness in Mato Grosso, Mato Grosso do Sul and Goias has
left a lack of moisture that’s unlikely to be replenished before
seeding starts in the second half of September, Oil World said
today in a report. Unusually dry conditions are expected through
at least Sept. 8 in the states, according to the report.  “Severe drought is jeopardizing plantings and production
in major growing regions,” Oil World said. “Prolonged dryness
has been experienced in several growing regions, creating
alarming moisture deficits.”  Corn futures are up 21 percent this year and soybeans have
gained 2.6 percent as wet weather reduced planting in the U.S.,
the world’s biggest shipper of both crops, and as hot, dry
weather the past two months has hurt yields.  In Mato Grosso, the government said soybean seeding can be
started on Sept. 16 this year to ensure timely planting and an
early harvest of the corn crop, which is scheduled to be done
after the collection of early-maturing soybeans in January, Oil
World said. Farmers have already bought seeds and fertilizer and
are prepared to plant, according to the report.  “Purchases have increased this year in line with the
farmer intentions to raise fertilizer applications and other
inputs on a larger area,” the researcher said. Pasture areas
are “expected to shrink further as part of them will be planted
with soybeans, corn or other crops in the forthcoming
campaign.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 