-- 
Buccaneer Energy Agrees to Buy Transocean Rig for $68.5 Million

-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 
2011-08-30T22:24:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/buccaneer-energy-agrees-to-buy-transocean-rig-for-68-5-million.html
Buccaneer Energy Ltd. (BCC) , an oil and
gas producer with operations in the  Gulf of Mexico  and  Texas ,
agreed to make its largest purchase ever by buying a shallow-
water rig from  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  for $68.5 million in an effort to
expand its business to offshore Alaska.  With rigs hard to come by in Alaska, buying its own vessel
will help guarantee the company access in the state, where it
has acreage in the offshore Cook Inlet and the onshore Kenai
Loop development, Curtis Burton, chief executive officer for
Buccaneer, said today in an interview.  “It’s important that you have a rig to drill with when you
need one,” he said. “I like  Alaska  for a whole host of reasons.
We’re there for the long haul.”  The rig, which can operate in water as deep as 300 feet,
was built in 1982 and upgraded in 2004, he said. The total
amount spent on the rig after additional upgrades and
mobilization costs will be $86.5 million. It’s expected to
arrive in the Cook Inlet by as late as May to start work, the
company said in a statement issued to Bloomberg News.  Buccaneer’s production about two months ago was roughly 2
million cubic feet of natural gas per day in the Gulf of Mexico
and about 200 barrels of oil per day in an onshore field in
southeast Texas, Burton said.  Buccaneer, with offices in Sydney and Houston, will own a
roughly 50 percent stake in the rig and plans to hire a
drilling-rig contractor to operate it, Burton said. The
remaining half will be owned by offshore rig owner  Ezion
Holdings Ltd. (EZI)  of  Singapore  and a public-private entity known as
the Alaska Industrial Development and Export Authority.  Guy Cantwell , a spokesman for Vernier, Switzerland-based
Transocean, did not immediately respond to phone and e-mail
messages seeking comment.  The sale of the rig, which has been parked in Malaysia
without work since September 2009, is expected to close between
Sept. 30 and Oct. 25, the company said.  Buccaneer plans to drill at least four wells with the rig
and has the right of first refusal on it through the end of 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net .
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  