-- 
C-III Capital Buys Real Estate Loan Servicing Business From JER

-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 
2011-08-30T17:41:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/c-iii-capital-buys-real-estate-loan-special-servicing-business-from-jer.html
C-III Capital Partners LLC, led by
property investor Andrew Farkas, bought JER Partners’ special-
servicing business to expand its management of delinquent U.S.
commercial real estate loans.  Financial terms weren’t disclosed. JER, based in McLean,
 Virginia , is the named special servicer for $35.5 billion of
commercial property debt, of which about $4 billion is under
active management, C-III said in a statement today. Special
servicers specialize in restructuring troubled debt.  “This acquisition strengthens C-III’s position as one of
the top three special servicers in the country and advances our
growth strategy,” Farkas, chairman and chief executive officer
at Irving, Texas-based C-III, said in the statement.  JER’s special servicing business is the latest to change
hands since the commercial real estate market slumped after the
2007 peak. Warren Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  and  Leucadia
National Corp. (LUK)  bought the servicing and mortgage lending
business of bankrupt Capmark Financial Group Inc. in 2009. Last
year,  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  purchased CW Financial
Services, and  Vornado Realty Trust (VNO)  and iStar Financial Inc. were
part of a group that recapitalized LNR Property Corp., the
biggest special servicer.  The purchase by C-III boosts its portfolio of loans managed
in special servicing to $17 billion, the company said. With the
transaction, it’s the named special servicer for about 14,000
loans with a total balance of more than $152 billion.  Late payments on commercial mortgages bundled and sold as
bonds rose the most in more than 12 months in July to a record
9.88 percent, according to real estate data provider Trepp LLC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  