-- 
Canada Second Quarter Current Account Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-08-30T12:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/canada-second-quarter-current-account-report-text-.html
Following is the text of
Canada's
current account report for the second quarter released by
 Statistics Canada .  Canada's overall current account deficit (on a
seasonally adjusted basis) widened by $5.3 billion to
reach $15.3 billion in the second quarter. This
deterioration in the current account balance was largely
equivalent to the change in the trade in goods balance
from a $1.8 billion surplus to a $3.5 billion deficit, as
imports increased further and exports declined.  In the capital and financial account (unadjusted for
seasonal variation), non-residents continued to supply
funds to the Canadian economy, largely through purchases
of Canadian debt securities. This resulted in a 10th
straight quarterly investment in Canadian securities.
Foreign direct investment in Canada was up in the second
quarter, reflecting an acceleration of merger and
acquisition activity.  Current account  Goods balance back to deficit  The overall balance on the trade in goods returned to a
deficit after two quarters in surplus, with a deficit of
$3.5 billion in the second quarter. The  trade surplus  with
 United States  fell by $3.3 billion in the second quarter,
following a $4.9 billion increase the previous quarter.
While imports from the United States expanded, exports
were down on lower values for crude petroleum and
automobiles.  Exports of goods declined $1.6 billion to $109.9
billion in the second quarter. Exports of crude petroleum
were down $2.0 billion on lower volumes, as prices
stabilised following gains of close to 35% over the
previous two quarters. This was partially offset by
increased exports of coal and natural gas, largely
reflecting higher prices.  Automobile exports were down $0.8 billion. Exports of
agricultural products and industrial goods were up
slightly. Within industrial goods, higher exports of
chemicals, plastics and fertilizers were partially offset
by lower exports of precious metals. Exports of machinery
and equipment edged down, while aircraft exports were at
their lowest value in 13 years.  Imports of goods expanded $3.7 billion in the second
quarter to reach $113.4 billion. Industrial goods imports
were up $1.5 billion, mainly on higher volumes of metals
and metal ores. Energy products increased $1.4 billion as
petroleum and coal products continued to grow, up more
than 80% over the last three quarters. Higher imports of
drilling and mining machinery led the $1.3 billion
increase in machinery and equipment. Automotive products
were down $1.2 billion.  Increase in the deficit on trade in services led by
transportation and travel  In the second quarter, the travel and transportation
deficits both increased for the fourth time in five
quarters. The travel deficit was up $0.1 billion as
Canadian spending abroad outpaced spending in  Canada  by
foreign travellers. The deficit on transportation services
widened by $0.3 billion, led by higher payments on air
fares. However, the commercial services deficit remained
unchanged. The overall deficit in trade in services
reached a new high of $6.2 billion in the second quarter.  Investment income deficit down on higher receipts  The deficit in investment income narrowed by $0.4
billion to $4.7 billion in the second quarter, led by
receipts. Earnings on Canadian direct investment abroad
were up $0.4 billion through higher dividends during the
second quarter. Receipts on portfolio investment remained
stable as higher dividends were offset by lower interest
on foreign bonds.  On the payments side, dividends from portfolio
investments and interest paid on Canadian bonds were both
up slightly. Profits earned in Canada by foreign direct
investors edged down in the second quarter.  Foreign investors favour Canadian debt instruments  The trend to foreign acquisition of Canadian securities
continued in the second quarter as non-residents investors
added a further $19.4 billion to their portfolios, marking
the 10th straight quarter of such investment. Non-resident
purchases of Canadian securities amounted to $270.2
billion over this period, with over three-quarters
directed to the Canadian  bond market .  Foreign investment in Canadian securities again focused
on bonds in the second quarter, with acquisitions of $11.9
billion. Retirements of Canadian bonds, mostly in June,
moderated the overall inflows over the quarter. Foreign
investment in federal government enterprise bonds led the
purchases in the quarter. Non-residents also continued to
add federal and provincial government bonds to their
holdings, despite increased retirements in these
instruments.  Foreign investors acquired $5.4 billion of Canadian
money market instruments in the second quarter. Federal
Treasury bills accounted for most of the investment, with
foreign holdings of these instruments reaching their
highest level since 1996. This was the largest such inflow
since the first quarter of 2009, following the weakening
of the economy and of global stock markets at the end of
2008.  Non-residents also acquired $2.1 billion of Canadian
equities in the second quarter, down from $9.3 billion in
the first quarter. Investment activity in the quarter
arose from secondary market purchases, as Canadian stock
prices declined further in the quarter to reach their
lowest level since November 2010.  Canadian investors acquire foreign corporate shares and
sell foreign bonds  Canadian investment in foreign securities slowed to
$1.3 billion in the second quarter, as purchases of
foreign stocks were largely offset by a reduction in
holdings of both long and short-term foreign debt
instruments. Canadian investors added $10.3 billion of
foreign corporate shares to their portfolios in the second
quarter, the largest such investment since the first
quarter of 2009. US stocks accounted for three-quarters of
these acquisitions, the highest in over three years. The
Standard and Poor's 500 composite index fell 0.6% in the
quarter, led by the energy and banking sectors.  Canadians reduced their holdings of foreign bonds by a
further $8.0 billion in the second quarter. US Treasury
bonds and, to a lesser extent, net retirements of maple
bonds accounted for most of the divestment in the quarter.
Purchases of bonds from  Japan  and other Organisation of
Economic Co-operation and Development countries moderated
this activity. In addition, residents removed US Treasury
bills from their portfolios for a third straight quarter,
as short-term  interest rates  in the United States remained
at historical lows.  Foreign direct investment in Canada increases as a result
of foreign takeovers  Foreign direct investors continued to inject funds into
the Canadian economy in the second quarter with an
additional inflow of $14.5 billion, after two quarters of
investment totalling $23.5 billion. Cross-border merger
and acquisition activity strengthened further in the
quarter, accounting for the bulk of the investment. US
direct investors led the investment, which was
concentrated in the Canadian energy and metallic mineral
sectors.  Funds sent abroad by Canadian direct investors slowed
to $4.6 billion in the second quarter. Investment was
mostly directed to the finance and insurance sectors.
Despite reduced activity in the quarter, Canadian direct
investment abroad for the first six months of 2011
exceeded that of the same period in each of the previous
two years.  Note to readers  The balance of international payments covers all
economic transactions between Canadian residents and non-
residents in two accounts, the current account and the
capital and financial account.  The current account covers transactions in goods,
services, investment income and current transfers.  The capital and financial account is mainly comprised
of transactions in financial assets and liabilities.  In principle, a current account surplus/deficit
corresponds to an equivalent net outflow/inflow in the
capital and financial account. In practice, as
international transactions data are compiled from multiple
sources, this is rarely the case and gives rise to
measurement error. The statistical discrepancy is the
unobserved net inflow or outflow.  For more information about the balance of payments,
consult the "Frequently asked questions" section in the
National economic accounts module of our website. The
module also presents the most recent balance of payments
statistics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  