-- 
Canada’s Dollar Trades Near a Three-Week High on Revived Demand for Risk

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-08-30T21:29:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/canada-s-dollar-falls-for-first-time-in-three-days-on-sapped-risk-demand.html
Canada ’s dollar traded within a cent
of a three-week high, paring an earlier drop as equities and
crude oil climbed on speculation U.S. policy makers will act to
buttress the economy if it deteriorates further.  The loonie, as the currency is sometimes known, was still
headed for its biggest monthly decrease since May on reduced
likelihood the Bank of Canada will boost borrowing costs.
Government bonds were headed for their best monthly returns
since the depths of the financial crisis in 2008.  “We’re going to follow the path of other asset markets, so
you have to have a view on equities,” said  Shane Enright ,
 executive director  at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce’s  CIBC
World Markets , by phone from Toronto. “If you think we’ve seen
the worst for equities, then we’ve probably seen the worst for
the Canadian dollar.”  The loonie traded at 97.79 cents per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m.
in Toronto, compared with 97.69 yesterday, when it touched 97.41
cents, the strongest level since Aug. 4. One Canadian dollar
buys $1.0226. The currency has fallen 2.4 percent this month,
which would be the biggest decrease since a 2.4 percent decline
in May.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.2 percent after
dropping 1.2 percent earlier today. The S&P/TSX Composite Index
gained 1 percent. Futures on crude oil, Canada’s biggest export,
climbed 1.8 percent to $88.80 a barrel in New York trading.  A gain in 10-year  government bonds  pushed the yield down
six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 2.40 percent. The
price of the 3.25 percent security maturing in June 2021
advanced 51 cents to C$107.35. Government debt has returned 2.3
percent this month, the most since December 2008, according to a
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.  U.S. Confidence  The loonie dropped earlier today after the Conference Board
reported that the New York-based research group’s index of
 consumer confidence  for the U.S., Canada’s biggest trading
partner, slumped this month to 44.5, the lowest since April
2009, from a revised 59.2 reading in July.  Canada’s current account deficit widened in April through
June to the second largest on record,  Statistics Canada 
reported. Payments sent abroad exceeded receipts from outside
Canada by C$15.3 billion ($15.7 billion), trailing only the
C$17.9 billion in the third quarter of last year. A Bloomberg
News economist survey had a C$13.7 billion shortfall as the
median estimate.  Canadian economists have cut by half their expectations for
Bank of Canada policy rate increases through the end of next
year, a Bloomberg survey shows.  Interest-Rate View  The median forecast for the central bank’s 1 percent target
rate for overnight loans between commercial banks was reduced to
1.75 percent at the end of next year, according to the monthly
Bloomberg News economist survey taken Aug. 22-29.  The target had been projected to increase to 2.50 percent
next year in last month’s survey. Reports over the past month
showed Canada’s economy weakening even before the impact of
financial-market turmoil stemming from  Europe ’s sovereign-debt
crisis and S&P’s downgrade of  U.S. debt .  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  told lawmakers on Aug.
19 the Canadian economy stalled and may have even contracted in
the second quarter.  Canada’s economy was unchanged in the three months through
June after expanding 3.9 percent in the first quarter, according
to the median forecast of 23 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. The report from Statistics Canada is due tomorrow.  U.S. stocks advanced today after minutes of the  Federal
Reserve ’s meeting this month indicated some policy makers wanted
to take more action to stimulate the economy.  Bernanke Outlook  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in his Aug. 26 address in
 Jackson Hole , Wyoming, that the central bank still has tools to
boost growth, without specifying what they were or whether they
would be deployed.  Last year, the Fed chief used his Jackson Hole speech to
lay the groundwork for a second round of bond purchases, also
known as quantitative  easing.  “It seems that we will have low rates for a while and that
if things get worse, some form of QE3 could be coming,” said
Firas Askari, head of  currency trading  in Toronto at Bank of
Montreal’s BMO Capital Markets unit, by e-mail. “At the end of
the day, its effect will be marginal at best.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia, at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  