-- 
Candover Assets Up, CEO ‘Hopeful’ of Realizations This Year

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 
2011-08-30T11:44:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/candover-assets-up-ceo-hopeful-of-realizations-this-year-1-.html
Candover Investments Plc, the
largest backer of U.K. buyout  fund manager  Arle Capital Partners
LLP, may receive sale proceeds this year thanks the appetite of
trade buyers for acquisitions, Chief Executive Officer Malcolm Fallen said.  “I am hopeful” Candover Investments will receive cash
from asset sales this year, Fallen said in a phone interview
today. “But it’s entirely up to the team managing the portfolio
to determine whether it’s the best time to exit.”  Candover’s net asset value per share rose 3.1 percent in
the first half to 839 pence as portfolio companies including
U.K. industrial safety-equipment maker Capital Safety Ltd. and
French defense company QiOptiq SAS experienced stronger trading,
the London-based company said in an e-mailed statement today.
Candover agreed in December to sell Candover Partners Ltd., its
in-house fund manager, to some of its executives after
defaulting on its commitment to the latest fund during the
financial crisis. The executives founded a new firm, Arle
Capital, to manage the assets.  Candover rose as much as 2.6 percent today and was trading
up 1.1 percent to 490.5 pence as of 12:32 p.m. in  London .  While greater difficulties getting debt financing from
banks may hamper other private-equity firms’ ability to buy
companies, trade buyers’ appetite for acquisitions may help
realize some of Candover’s investments, Fallen said.  Asset Sales  “There are some strategically important assets for the
trade buyers,” Fallen said. “And corporate buyers are going to
take a longer-term, different view, be less influenced by
shorter-term volatility and tightening in credit markets.”  Arle, headed by John Arney, is considering selling QiOptiq,
a maker of optical equipment for the army, and an auction is
scheduled to start next month, people with knowledge of the
matter previously said. The firm may also sell Capital Safety as
well as the manufacturing unit of U.K. oil company Expro
International Group Plc, two people with knowledge of the matter
today, who didn’t want to be identified because the talks are
private, said today.  Candover Partners shut its 3 billion-euro ($4.3 billion)
leveraged-buyout fund in 2010 after Candover Investments, its
publicly traded parent, ran out of cash and canceled a 1
billion-euro commitment to the pool in March 2009. Candover
Investments decided it wouldn’t back any other funds and would
rather focus on returning cash to shareholders.  Net debt was cut to 39.6 million pounds ($64.6 million)
from 91 million pounds, Candover Investments said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  