-- 
U.K. Stocks Advance After Fed Minutes, Trimming Monthly Slump

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-08-31T15:48:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/cape-grafton-group-lloyds-u-k-irish-equity-market-preview.html
U.K. stocks advanced for a second
day after the  Federal Reserve  said some policy makers wanted to
add to stimulus measures and factory orders topped forecasts in
the U.S.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Rio Tinto  Group rallied more than 3
percent as rising metal prices boosted the earnings outlook for
the world’s biggest mining companies.  Smith & Nephew Plc (SN/)  soared
4.9 percent after the  Daily Mail  reported that Biomet Inc. may
bid 900 pence a share for the maker of artificial knees and
hips. Bwin.Party Digital Entertainment Plc soared 14 percent.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  gained 125.87, or 2.4 percent, to
5,394.53 at the 4:30 p.m. close in  London . The gauge has slumped
7.2 percent in August, its biggest monthly drop since February
2009, as concern that the global economic recovery is faltering
wiped more than $400 billion off the value of U.K. shares. The
FTSE All-Share Index rose 2.3 percent today, while Ireland’s
ISEQ Index advanced 3.6 percent.  Fed policy makers debated ways to invigorate the recovery
and hiring at their meeting earlier this month, according to
minutes released after European markets closed yesterday. That
potentially lays the groundwork for action, such as a third
round of asset purchases, also known as QE3, at the  Federal Open
Market Committee ’s September gathering. Several members of the
FOMC favored a “more substantial move” at the Aug. 9 meeting
beyond the pledge adopted by the panel to hold  interest rates  at
record lows for the next two years.  “It’s a buying opportunity,” said Virginie Maisonneuve,
head of global equities at Schroder Investment Management Ltd.,
which manages $328.7 billion. “If needed, we’ll have a QE3 or
something of that sort in the U.S. to help extend this period of
fragility so that we don’t go back into a recession. I don’t
think it’s a recession at this point.”  U.S. Payrolls  U.S. companies added 91,000 workers this month, a report
from ADP Employer Services showed today. The median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for an advance of
100,000. The release came two days before the Labor Department’s
monthly jobs report, which is forecast to show payrolls climbed
by 70,000 in August after an increase of 117,000 in July.  BHP Billiton  and Rio Tinto rose 3.1 percent to 2,106 pence
and 3.5 percent to 3,802 pence, respectively, as aluminum,
copper, nickel, tin and zinc all advanced on the London Metal
Exchange. The FTSE 350 Mining Index fell 9.9 percent in August.  “A lot of materials stocks and industrial stocks have been
beaten down in the last few weeks on really what is a crisis of
confidence,” said Schroder’s Maisonneuve. “It’s very wise to
buy on the dip because those are really cheap stocks,” she said
in a Bloomberg Radio interview with  Tom Keene .  U.S. Factory Orders  Orders placed with U.S. factories rose in July by the most
in four months, boosted by demand for motor vehicles and
aircraft that more than made up for a decrease in business
equipment.  Smith & Nephew surged 4.9 percent to 625.5 pence for the
biggest gain in more than seven months. The Daily Mail, the
Independent and the Guardian newspapers cited speculation that
the company may receive a bid.  Jon Coles, a spokesman for Smith & Nephew at Brunswick
Group in London, declined to comment.  Bwin.Party Digital soared 14 percent to 125.3 pence after
reporting first-half earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization that beat analysts’ estimates.  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  advanced 3.8 percent to 378.6 pence. Britain’s
largest retailer plans to sell its 129-store Japanese unit
because it cannot build a “sufficiently scalable business” in
the country eight years after entering the market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  