-- 
Capital Law May Cut Bank Profitability to 11%, McKinsey Says

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-08-31T13:05:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/capital-rules-may-cut-bank-profitability-to-11-mckinsey-says.html
Lenders may struggle to earn more
than an 11 percent return on their equity as they implement
rules and  capital requirements  costing $610 billion over the
next seven years, according to a report from McKinsey & Co.  Global regulations, including the mandatory clearing of
over-the-counter derivatives and higher capital requirements,
may force banks to pass on a “portion of the higher regulatory
costs” to customers, the study said. Banks should “conserve
capital and boost efficiency” to stay profitable, London-based
McKinsey said.  “After mitigation, average returns-on-equity across
businesses will likely be 11 to 12 percent but with considerable
variation,” according to the report, written by a McKinsey team
led by Philipp Haerle and Thomas Poppensieker in Munich. “Some
of the worst-hit businesses with ROEs below the cost of capital
may have to be disposed of, especially at banks with weak
franchises.”  European lenders will need to raise an extra 423 billion
euros ($611 billion) by 2019 to comply with global capital rules
approved by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision ,
according to a European Union study. The Basel committee also
said last month that 28 banks would be subject to additional
capital requirements to rein in too-big-to-fail banks.  The McKinsey report “is driven by Basel III,” Irving Henry, a director at the London-based British Bankers’
Association, said in a telephone interview today. “The fact is
that change is coming.”  Counterattack  McKinsey said that “increased counterparty-credit-risk
charges” as well as “liquidity and funding requirements” will
hurt bank profits along with increased capital requirements.  Global banks started a counterattack against the capital
guidelines last week, warning the rules may reduce lending and
harm growth.  The Clearing House Association and the Institute of
International Bankers, whose members include  JPMorgan Chase &
Co (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , said in a
letter that capital surcharges are “deeply flawed” and
“reflexively based on the notion that size alone creates
prudential concerns.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 