-- 
Carrefour May Abandon Earnings Forecast Amid French Store Slump

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-08-30T10:36:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/carrefour-may-abandon-earnings-forecast.html
Carrefour SA (CA) , the world’s second-
largest retailer, may have to drop its annual earnings forecast
as a reorganization in its home market of France failed to boost
sales growth quickly enough.  Current operating income may drop 11 percent to 2.4 billion
euros ($3.5 billion) in 2011 from 2.7 billion euros, according
to the median estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
News. First-half profit fell about 23 percent, Carrefour said
last month, adding that the decline was a “handicap” to
reaching its full-year target. The grocer will announce details
of first-half earnings and its recovery plan tomorrow.  “We expect Carrefour to formally abandon its 2011 guidance
of earnings before interest and taxes growth and communicate a
very cautious target for the year given the limited visibility
on the economic landscape,” Nomura analysts including Nicolas Champ wrote in a note dated Aug. 25.  Carrefour has lost about a third of its market value amid
an extended slump at its stores in  France , where it is revamping
stores, supplying more own-label goods and increasing
promotions. A proposal to merge its Brazilian business with a
rival’s fell through last month. Some investors are agitating
for a sale of its unit there after the stock’s decline, people
familiar with the matter have said.  Sales Progression  As recently as July 13, Carrefour repeated its forecast for
a “progression in sales and current operating income” this
year. The same day, the company also issued restated earnings on
that basis for 2010 that took into account the spinoff of its
Dia discount chain as well as other items.  A Carrefour spokeswoman said the company’s forecast related
to the restated figure and declined to comment on whether the
company would adjust its outlook tomorrow. The stock fell as
much as 1.1 percent in Paris trading today, giving the retailer
a market value of about 13 billion euros.  Management’s full-year guidance for Ebit growth is
“overoptimistic,” said Arnaud Joly, an analyst at CA
Cheuvreux, in a note to investors. He anticipates that a decline
of between 11 percent and 15 percent this year is “more
realistic.”  Chief Executive Officer Lars Olofsson named new management
at the French business and a new chief financial officer amid
the decline in earnings. The CEO is seeking to reverse
decreasing market share via a 1.5 billion-euro revamp of 500
superstores, or hypermarkets, across Europe. First-half profit
slumped 35 percent in France.  Price Squeeze  Though the new format, dubbed Carrefour Planet, dedicates
more space to categories like frozen and organic foods, beauty
and fashion, it doesn’t address consumer demand for convenience
and proximity as the locations remain the same, according to
Niamh McSherry, an analyst at Berenberg Bank in  London .  Carrefour is losing market share in France also after
passing on cost increases to consumers. LeClerc and Intermarche,
privately held grocers whose prices are between 3 percent and 5
percent below those of their larger rival, are seemingly willing
to focus more on volume growth than near-term margins, according
to Sanford C. Bernstein analyst  Christopher Hogbin .  “Consumers’ perception of Carrefour’s prices still lags
behind its key competitors’, so outlining a strategy to remedy
this will be key,” wrote analysts at Espirito Santo Investment
Bank in a note. Carrefour has invested almost 1 billion euros in
prices over two years, the analysts estimated.  With lackluster sales growth and a challenging competitive
environment, meeting detailed targets to trim costs “will be
key to supporting near-term margins,” Hogbin wrote in a
research note. Carrefour aims to reduce operating costs by 480
million euros this year, as well as achieve 225 million euros in
purchasing cost savings.  Pressure on  Brazil   The performance at home has increased pressure from some
investors to reconsider its international markets.  The retailer abandoned in July a plan to combine its
Brazilian unit with Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de
Acucar after the deal’s main backer pulled out. Carrefour would
study another plan if Gama, the investment fund of Banco BTG
Pactual that proposed the Brazilian transaction, came up with
one, said Pierre Bouchut last month. Bouchut will be replaced as
CFO by Pierre-Jean Sivignon in September.  Brazil Writedown  In Brazil, where Carrefour wrote down the value of its
business by 550 million euros last year, the company is
improving purchasing decisions, cutting overhead and converting
underperforming superstores to its more successful Atacadao cash
and carry brand. The retailer has said it should post a
“significant” increase in operating income in Brazil in 2011.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s largest retailer, has
also explored a bid for Carrefour’s Brazilian stores, people
with knowledge of the process have said.  Carrefour won’t sell its business in Brazil and hasn’t been
in talks with Wal-Mart about a potential deal since 2009,
Olofsson told a Brazilian newspaper Aug. 17. The CEO said in
June he would look at all options to strengthen Carrefour’s
position in emerging markets, describing them as a growth
engine.  Colony Capital LLC, Blue Capital and Groupe Arnault
together own about 14 percent of the retailer. Knight Vinke
Asset Management LLC, which owns about 1.5 percent of Carrefour,
has said it opposes the sale of any assets outside of  Europe  on
an individual basis. The investor has urged the retailer to
improve its business in Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  