-- 
Cell Phone Weighs Down Backpack of Self-Discovery: Dalton Conley

-- B y   D a l t o n   C o n l e y
-- 
2011-08-30T00:00:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/cell-phone-burdens-backpack-of-self-discovery-commentary-by-dalton-conley.html
When I was 18, I did what many
middle-class American college students have done ever since
 air travel  became broadly accessible: I backpacked through
 Europe  on a rail pass. Much cheap wine was consumed. Many
beautiful European women were chased (unsuccessfully). Many
hard-earned savings were spent at discotheques.  My buddies and I spent most of the time together, but
on occasion we split up to travel through different cities
with plans to rendezvous at an American Express office in
northern  Italy .  During my time alone, I slept on a beach in  Spain , in
a public park in Genoa and on the marble floor of the
fascist-built  Milan train station . I read Dostoevsky. Most
of the time that I was on my own, I was miserable. I
hurried through meals self-consciously. I sat in public
parks and wrote in my journal. And I only occasionally made
new acquaintances at the hostels.  Meanwhile, I spoke to my parents perhaps once a week
from a public phone bank. I hurriedly told them I was alive
and made sure everyone back home was, too. The conversation
would take less than five minutes, and that was pretty much
it when it came to communication. After all, there were
better things to spend my money on.  The day I arrived, in Paris, I stood in a patisserie,
my stomach grumbling, as customer after customer ordered
their baked goods, and I mentally practiced my request: “Je
voudrais un baguette s’il vous plait... Je voudrais un
baguette s’il vous plait…” Over and over until, finally, I
swallowed and spoke the words aloud -- but not loudly
enough, evidently, since I was ignored in favor of other
patrons. It took twice as long for me to try again -- and
twice the courage to speak up even louder. Again I was
ignored. I slunk out of the shop. To my back, I heard the
baker shout, “Je voudrais UNE baguette! UNE! C’est
feminine, la baguette!”  French Bread Lesson  It was the most powerful French lesson I would ever
endure -- complete with the Pavlovian reward of the still-
warm loaf of bread. How was I to know the sex of a
baguette? I had no iPhone translation app to tell me it is
feminine. I couldn’t Google. And I was alone.  I followed pretty much the same routine during a stint
in the  Middle East ,  Latin America  and various other far-
flung places during the summers of my young adulthood. It
gradually became easier to be alone, to meet new people and
to order bread.  My story is by no means unique. It has long been a
rite of passage in our culture of rugged individualism to
spend a summer in Europe, or to hike the  Appalachian Trail ,
or to bike down the West Coast. It doesn’t matter how far
you go, just as long as you disconnect, cut the umbilical
cord, get lost and end up with stories to tell your kids
someday (edited for public consumption, and perhaps a tad
exaggerated). Time away from our social networks as young
adults helps us figure out who we are, and become fully
individual.  As of late, however, our time in the social wilderness
has been eroded by omnipresent connectivity -- that is, the
mobile telecommunications device. And I’m afraid that with
no solitude, we will become less, not more, connected to
our friends and families. Without loneliness, our society
will innovate less.
The great American tradition of “finding ourselves” by
leaving the social network extends further back even than
Henry David Thoreau and his time on Walden Pond. The
romanticization of the lone shepherd extends to  Virgil . But
as an uncolonized continent, America after the arrival of
Europeans played a special role in developing the story
line. It was a new Garden of Eden where the fruits of the
Earth abounded and life was idyllic. At the same time,
though, as Leo Marx argues in his 1964 classic “ The Machine
in the Garden ,” it was also a forbidding jungle, inhabited
by “savages” and lacking the comforts of civilization.
 Thomas Jefferson ’s entire vision of a functioning democracy
came to rest on the notion of the (white, male) farmer
tending his garden alone, coming to the public square only
occasionally (and reluctantly) to do the nation’s business.
The first major intruder on Americans’ solitude, Marx says,
was the locomotive. First used in the U.S. in 1829, the
railroad brought the machine into the garden. By 1844,
Nathaniel Hawthorne found his solitude in Sleepy Hollow
rudely disrupted by a train whistle.  But whereas the railroad merely reminded Hawthorne of
“that other place” teeming with people, the telegraph and
telephone connected the garden and the city in real time.
By liberating us even from the physical wires used by the
telegraph and first telephones, mobile-phone and Wi-Fi
technology has collapsed space.  When I called my grandparents from  California , on a
scratchy transcontinental line, location still mattered
since it cost more to call farther and the reception was
worse. Now distance is no longer of much importance, except
in how far the parties are from their respective cell-phone
towers. Today, we carry our phones with us almost all the
time -- so we can’t truly be alone.  A Private Space  Yet we all need solitude. It is necessary not only for
individualism but also for developing self-awareness and
intimacy. Let me explain.  Time spent alone allows us to see ourselves as others
see us. It’s important to have a backstage -- a safe,
private space where we don’t have to worry about folks
watching us, where we can let our hair down, practice our
social routines and strike back against the indignations of
life in the public square. The  backstage  is where our
“true” self resides, as distinct from the front-stage self
we present at the office or on the street.  The mobile phone in the garden erodes that private
space. And, in turn, it precludes intimacy: Until we have
(and can protect) that private self, we can’t be intimate
with another. Intimacy, to extend the theatrical metaphor,
is like giving backstage passes to a select few. It rests
on the private self remaining distinct from the public
self, so that you have something to offer chosen friends
and family members.  Recently I found on my Facebook feed an announcement
from a colleague I had never met in person: He was getting
divorced. It was all going to be fine, he told me and 368
other “friends,” because he and his soon-to-be ex had
reached a shared-custody arrangement and were going to have
an amicable relationship. I felt squeamish for having read
this painful, personal information that I really shouldn’t
know. But more and more private interactions now take place
in broadcast mode -- front stage.  Imagine always being in that French patisserie where
you are being watched and judged for your grammar. And
never having a hostel to retreat to for some hard-won,
still-warm bread. I just hope that when my own kids go
backpacking they forget their cell phones and remember
their gendered articles.  (Dalton Conley, dean of social sciences at  New York
University , is the author of “Elsewhere, U.S.A.: How We Got
From the Company Man, Family Dinners and the Affluent Society
to the  Home Office , BlackBerry Moms and Economic Anxiety.”
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Dalton Conley at  conley@nyu.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  