-- 
Chile’s July Industrial Production Rises Less Than Forecast

-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 
2011-08-30T14:01:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/chile-s-july-industrial-production-rises-less-than-forecast-1-.html
Chile’s industrial production grew
at its slowest pace in 15 months in July and copper output
slumped, underpinning expectations that the central bank is at
the end of its tightening cycle.  Industrial output rose 0.7 percent from the same month last
year, compared with 4 percent in June, the National Statistics
Institute said in a report today. The median estimate of 13
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for an increase of 3.5
percent. Industrial sales gained 2.4 percent in July, the
institute said.  The data is the latest evidence that growth in  South
America ’s fifth-largest economy is slowing, providing the
central bank with space to stop raising its benchmark  interest
rate  beyond the current 5.25 percent. Policy makers kept the
rate unchanged at the past two monthly meetings after raising it
for five consecutive months.  “There was talk before today that the central bank could
pause or stop raising its rate, and this confirms that,” Flavio Magnasco, chief economist at Banco Falabella, said in a
telephone interview from Santiago. “The market already is
talking of a decrease in rates.”  Chile’s economy, which grew 10 percent and 6.8 percent in
the first and second quarters respectively from last year, will
probably expand at a slower rate in the second half of 2011,
central bank President Jose De Gregorio said on Aug. 23.  “It’s normal for this to occur in this phase of the
economic cycle,” he said at the Bloomberg Chile Economic Summit
in Santiago about a slowdown in growth. “We’re counting on
demand to moderate its pace of growth.”  Copper Output  Copper production fell 18 percent to 373,498 metric tons in
July from a year ago as bad weather and strikes affected
operations, the institute said. Workers at BHP Billiton Ltd.’s
Escondida mine, the world’s largest, started a two-week strike
on July 21.  Retail sales climbed 9.6 percent in July from the previous
year, beating the median estimate of 9.5 percent in a survey of
11 economists by Bloomberg.  Consumer demand continues to lead economic gains and may
fuel industrial growth, Magnasco said.  “Consumption has been the engine of the economy and has
grown quite strongly without showing signs of deceleration,” he
said. “There may be months where production will be lower, but
as consumption remains strong, output will have to continue
rising.”  Retail sales grew 16 percent and 9.9 percent in the first
and second quarters respectively, according to Bloomberg
calculations based on government data.  Economic Rebound  The peso declined 0.1 percent as of 9:25 a.m. New York time
to 465.75 per  U.S. dollar .  Chile’s $200 billion economy suffered its worst recession
in more than a decade in 2009 and was hit by an 8.8-magnitude
earthquake in February 2010 that caused an estimated $30 billion
in damage.  Industrial output grew 12 percent in the first quarter and
7.8 percent in the second quarter as factories recovered from
the temblor, according to calculations made by Bloomberg based
on government data.  Gross domestic product may climb about 6.5 percent this
year, the fastest pace since 1997, and slow to about 5 percent
growth in 2012, newspaper  El Mercurio  cited central bank board
member Rodrigo Vergara as saying in an interview published Aug.
26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net . 