-- 
China Merchants Doubles Profit on Cargo, Shanghai Port Stake

-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 
2011-08-30T11:31:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/china-merchants-doubles-profit-to-hk-3-9-billion-on-one-time-gain-cargos.html
China Merchants Holdings
(International) Co. doubled first-half profit because of rising
container volumes and HK$1.37 billion ($176 million) of gains
mainly linked to a stake in the operator of  Shanghai ’s port.  Net income rose to HK$3.9 billion from HK$1.93 billion a
year earlier, the Hong Kong-based company said in a  filing  to
the city’s stock exchange today. The one-time gains were mostly
derived from a revaluation of the company’s shares in Shanghai
International Port (Group) Co., financial controller Zhang
Rizhong told reporters in Hong Kong today.  China Merchants’ recurrent profit jumped 27 percent to
HK$2.4 billion as rising shipments of Chinese-made goods to the
U.S. and  Europe  boosted volumes at its port operations. The pace
of growth is expected to slow in the second half amid global
economic uncertainty, Managing Director Hu Jianhua said.  “We are concerned of a slowdown in  China ’s port volume
throughput from the fourth quarter onwards, particularly for
ports in Southern China,” Karen Li, an analyst at JPMorgan
Chase & Co., said in a note issued today. “With key exposure in
the Pearl River Delta region, China Merchants is uniquely
exposed to risk of a slowing global trade environment.”  Li downgraded China Merchants to “underweight” from
“neutral” after the earnings were announced.  The port operator has halted talks on an investment in a
container terminal in Vietnam recently amid a row in  South China
Sea , Hu said.  Interim Dividend  China Merchants, the owner of stakes in ports moving about
a third of China’s containers, declared an interim dividend of
30 HK cents per share, compared with 25 HK cents a year earlier.  The company gained 2.7 percent to close at HK$24.65 in Hong
Kong trading today. The stock has lost 20 percent this year,
compared with a 12 percent decline for the benchmark  Hang Seng
Index .  Cosco Pacific Ltd. (1199) , the terminal-operating arm of China’s
biggest shipping group, has dropped 21 percent.  China Merchants’ ports, which include facilities in
Shanghai, Shenzhen and Ningbo, boosted first-half volumes 11
percent to 27.6 million containers. Commodity volumes rose 19
percent to 160.5 million tons.  Volumes at the port operator’s home port in Shenzhen fell
0.6 percent in the first half, Hu said.  Cargo volumes at China’s major ports increased 13 percent
to 4.4 billion tons in the first half, according to the  Ministry
of Transport  said. Sea harbors had a growth rate of 13 percent,
while river ports’ traffic jumped 14 percent.  Vietnam Halt  China Merchants started talks to build a deep-water cargo
port near Ho Chi Minh city in 2007 and suspended the
negotiations at the end of last year after a territorial dispute
between China and  Vietnam , Hu said.  “The atmosphere must be different when you are in talks
and there are protests on streets,” said Hu. “We don’t have
much extra cost on the suspension, except for the time we
invested.”  The company has not given up on building a port in Vietnam
that will be designed for a capacity higher than the 2.4 million
cargo-boxes a year port it plans in  Sri Lanka , Hu said.  The port operator will keep expanding overseas as part of
its long-term strategy, Vice Chairman Li Jianhong said.  The company and its partners agreed this month to build and
operate a container terminal in  Colombo , Sri Lanka. The project
may cost more than $500 million, making it the company’s largest
investment overseas, China Merchants said Aug. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  