-- 
China Money Rate Jumps Most in Seven Days on Cash Crunch Concern

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-30T09:13:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/china-money-rate-jumps-most-in-seven-days-on-cash-crunch-concern.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
jumped the most in seven days and the cost of one-year swaps
climbed to a record on concern the central bank’s expansion of
 reserve requirements  will worsen a cash crunch.  The seven-day repurchase rate, which measures interbank
funding availability, has surged 89 basis points this week after
Standard Chartered Plc and Bank of America Merrill Lynch said
the central bank issued a notice on Aug. 26 including margin
deposits in the requirements. Guotai Junan Securities Co, the
nation’s biggest brokerage by revenue, yesterday said banks will
face “cash depletion” following the “bigger-than-expected”
tightening measure.  “The new policy will have a big impact on China’s
liquidity situation in September,” said Shi Lei, head of fixed-
income research in Beijing at Ping An Securities Co., a unit of
the nation’s second-biggest insurance company. “The cash
shortage will probably worsen in the second half of next month,
when banks are desperate for cash to meet month-end  capital
requirements .”  The seven-day repurchase rate climbed 55 basis points to
4.96 percent as of the 4:30 p.m. close in  Shanghai , according to
a weighted average rate compiled by the National Interbank
Funding Center. The rate has averaged 3.93 percent in August.
Shi said the measure may average 4.5 percent next month.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repo rate, rose six basis points
to 4.43 percent in Shanghai, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It touched 4.52 percent today, the highest level
since Bloomberg started compiling the data in 2006.  --Judy Chen. Editors: Anil Varma, James Regan  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3043 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 