-- 
Columbia Student David Gets Six Months for Drug Charges

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-08-30T22:14:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/columbia-student-david-gets-six-months-for-drug-charges-1-.html
Harrison David, one of five Columbia
University students arrested on drug charges in December, was
sentenced to six months in jail and five years of probation.  David, 21, of Wrentham,  Massachusetts , pleaded guilty on
July 19 to selling cocaine to an undercover officer. He was
sentenced today by Judge Michael Sonberg in  New York  state
 Supreme Court  in Manhattan, said Kati Cornell, a spokeswoman for
New York City Special Narcotics Prosecutor Bridget Brennan’s
 office .  Four other students have rejected deals to plead guilty to
drug-related charges in exchange for a recommended sentence of
five years’ probation. They are Christopher Coles, 21, of
Philadelphia; Adam Klein, 21, of Closter,  New Jersey ; Jose
Stephan Perez, 20, of Atlanta; and Michael Wymbs, 22, of New
York. They are scheduled to return to court in October.  The five students were arrested in December after a five-
month investigation named “Operation Ivy League.” The arrests
followed raids on fraternity houses and residences on the
university’s  Manhattan  campus.  Prosecutors said undercover officers spent $11,000 buying
drugs including cocaine, marijuana, ecstasy and LSD-laced
Altoids mints and Sweetarts candy, with most of the sales taking
place in common areas and bedrooms of three fraternities.  Time Served  David was taken to the Eric M. Taylor Center on Rikers
Island after today’s court appearance, according to the  website 
of the New York City Department of Correction. He is expected to
serve about 3 1/2 months after credit for time served and good
behavior, the New York Post quoted his attorney,  Matthew Myers ,
as saying.  Myers didn’t return messages seeking comment on the
sentencing. Myers said last month that David, a sophomore
engineering student, had been suspended by the school and was
likely to be expelled given his guilty plea.  Robert Hornsby , a
spokesman for Columbia, declined to comment on today’s
proceedings.  Alleged drug suppliers Miron Sarzynski, 24, and his
girlfriend, Megan Asper, 22, were arrested in October in the
East Village neighborhood of Manhattan. Another alleged cocaine
supplier, Roberto Lagares, 31, was arrested in December in
 Brooklyn , New York. None of them attended Columbia.  Attempted Kidnapping  Sarzynski pleaded guilty to second-degree criminal sale of
a controlled substance and first-degree attempted kidnapping and
was sentenced to six years in prison. Asper pleaded guilty to
third-degree criminal possession of a controlled substance and
was sentenced to 45 days in prison. Lagares pleaded guilty to
criminal sale of a controlled substance in the third degree and
was sentenced to six years in prison.  Columbia, founded in 1754, has about 25,000 students and is
one of eight schools in the northeastern U.S. that make up the
 Ivy League . Graduates include President Barack Obama and  Warren Buffett , the chairman and chief executive officer of Berkshire
Hathaway Inc.  The case is People v. David, 00038N/2011, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  