-- 
Containers Slump to 50-Year Low as Sales Slow

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 
2011-08-31T09:37:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/containers-slump-to-50-year-low-as-ships-from-china-slow-freight-markets.html
The container-shipping industry is
contending with the longest stretch of near-zero rates in its
half-century history on the Asia-to- Europe  route, as a capacity
glut combines with the slowest growth in trade since 2009.  Commerce on the world’s second-busiest container route rose
4.2 percent in the second quarter, the weakest since the end of
2009, Woking, England-based Container Trade Statistics Ltd.
estimates. Rates excluding fuel surcharges were “practically”
zero in July and little changed this month, the worst run ever,
said Menno Sanderse, an analyst at Morgan Stanley in London.  While growth in container volumes has slowed for four
consecutive quarters, it’s still nowhere near the 22 percent
contractions seen in the first half of 2009. Europe normally
imports more goods this quarter as shops begin stockpiling for
the December holidays. That gain may be curbed this year as
retailers anticipate mounting concern about economies and jobs
will hurt  consumer spending .  “If you’re a large retailer and you have this turmoil,
you’re going to be worried,” said Lars Jensen, chief executive
officer of Copenhagen-based SeaIntel Maritime Analysis, which
advises shipping companies and ports. “Will people shop or not
for Christmas or will they shop more or less than usual? The
more uncertain you are, the more you are likely to err on the
side of caution on the procuring side.”  Fleet Capacity  Container trade on the Asia-Europe route will expand by an
average of 4 percent to 6 percent this year, compared with 15
percent growth in fleet capacity, according to Morgan Stanley.
The cost including surcharges of hauling a 20-foot box from
Shanghai to north-west Europe was last at $839, 61 percent down
from the peak of $2,165 reached in March 2010, said Mels Boer, a
freight derivatives broker with ACM/GFI in  London . He cited a
weekly index produced by the Shanghai Shipping Exchange.  Equity analysts are increasingly bearish on what slowing
trade growth means for company earnings. A.P. Moeller-Maersk
A/S, the world’s biggest container-shipping line, will report a
25 percent slump in net income to 19.71 billion kroner ($3.8
billion) this year, the mean of 16 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg shows.  While the median estimate fell 21 percent since the start
of the year and shares of the Copenhagen-based company tumbled
31 percent, just four of 24 analysts tracked by Bloomberg rate
the stock a “sell.”  The industry may lose $2.5 billion to $3 billion this year,
said Philip Damas, director of liner shipping and supply chains
at Drewry Shipping Consultants Ltd. in London. Owners and
operators lost $20 billion in 2009, when the global container
trade contracted for the first time ever, he said.  Cutting Services  The Asia-to-Europe container route is exceeded only by
trade from  Asia  to the U.S. West Coast and accounts for about 9
percent of annual global shipments of 139.9 million 20-foot
equivalent units, the benchmark container size, according to
London-based Clarkson Plc, the world’s biggest shipbroker.  There are 355 ships working the route, Containerisation
International, a London-based provider of data and analysis,
estimates. Westbound trade is more than double the volume of
goods going east.  Carriers are cutting services and idling more ships to trim
capacity and bolster rates, Paris-based BRS-Alphaliner, a data
provider for the industry, said in a report Aug. 2.  The equivalent of four vessels, each capable of hauling
8,000 20-foot containers, joined the route each week in 2011,
boosting fleet supply by 12 percent from a year ago, Alphaliner
estimates. That spurred more idling, with a combined 210,000 20-
foot containers of capacity being suspended from trading by Aug.
29, compared with 150,000 units as of Aug. 15, said Yann Le
Gouard, a consultant at the company.  Existing Capacity  The global fleet of container vessels expanded 17 percent
to 4,767 since the end of 2007 and orders at shipyards are equal
to almost 28 percent of existing capacity, data from Redhill,
England-based IHS Fairplay show.  That’s less than the glut in carriers hauling dry bulk
commodities including coal and iron ore, where orders are equal
to 36 percent of current capacity. The Baltic Dry Index of rates
for such ships plunged 41 percent in the past 12 months,
according to the  Baltic Exchange , which publishes daily
assessments for more than 50 maritime routes.  Oil-tanker owners are losing money, with returns on the
benchmark Saudi-Arabia-to-Japan route going negative this month,
data from the London-based bourse shows. That means owners were
effectively paying customers to charter their vessels, agreeing
to do so because it would cover some fuel costs while ships move
to more profitable regions.  About 90 percent of global trade moves by sea, according to
the Round Table of International Shipping Associations.  Slowing Down  Container lines responded by slowing ships down to reduce
fuel costs and prolong journeys. Maersk vessels are averaging
about 18 knots for shipments to Europe from Asia, compared with
21 knots before the 2008 financial crisis, said Morten
Engelstoft, the chief operating officer of  Maersk Line , the
container unit of A.P. Moeller-Maersk.  That decline in speed adds more than three days to a
journey to Rotterdam, Europe’s biggest port, from  Shanghai ,
according to SeaRates.com, an online freight exchange.  Owners may respond to the plunge in returns by suspending
more ships from service, potentially bolstering rates in the
fourth quarter and into the first half of next year, Morgan
Stanley’s Sanderse said in a report Aug. 3.  Uncertainty Increasing  “We do expect a peak season in coming months even though
it is likely that it will be shorter than we’ve seen in earlier
years,” said Engelstoft at Maersk, which has about 100 ships on
the Asia-Europe route.  Fleet growth is having a bigger effect on the industry’s
profitability than slowing growth in trade, he said. Container
shipping accounted for about 58 percent of the company’s net
income last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The  U.S. economy  expanded at a 1 percent annual rate in the
second quarter, capping the weakest six months of the recovery
that began in 2009, the Commerce Department reported Aug. 26.
European second-quarter growth rose 0.2 percent from the
previous three months, the slowest since late 2009, the European
Union said Aug. 16.  Trade on the Asia-Europe route will expand 5.1 percent this
year, Clarkson said this month, reducing its previous forecast
of 6.2 percent. Container freight derivatives, used to bet or
hedge on future costs, were priced at $938 per 20-foot container
on the Shanghai-to-Northwest Europe route from October to
December by 9:03 a.m. today, according to Clarkson Securities, a
unit of Clarkson. That’s down 6.25 percent from a week ago.  While shipments from Asia to Europe and the U.S. expanded
faster than other routes over the last decade, that ranking will
likely reverse over the next three to five years, said Jensen of
SeaIntel Maritime Analysis.  Retail Sales  A U.K. retail-sales index fell to the lowest level since
May 2010 in August, the Confederation of British Industry said
Aug. 25. Peter Marks, chief executive officer of Co-operative
Group Ltd., the U.K.’s largest mutual retailer, said the same
day that trading conditions were the worst he’d seen in more
than four decades. European retail sales fell for a fourth month
in August, London-based Markit Economics reported yesterday,
with a reading of 48 on its gauge indicating a contraction.  European consumer spending related to the Christmas
holidays will probably be “subdued” this year outside of
 Germany , said Boris Planer, the research director of market data
for  Frankfurt , Germany-based Planet Retail GmbH. It’s unlikely
to reach the depths seen during the global recession, he said.  Year-End Holidays  Maritime Transport Ltd., a Southampton, England-based
company that trucks containers from ports to depots, would
normally see daily deliveries rise to 2,000 from about 1,700
during the peak season for retailers stocking up for the year-
end holidays. That’s unlikely this year as families trim
spending, said  John Williams , managing director.  “If you’re involved in food distribution you might not be
delivering fillet steaks,” Williams said. “You might be
delivering pork pies instead.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  