-- 
Copper Rises to Three-Week High in New York Trading on U.S. Growth Outlook

-- B y   Y i   T i a n
-- 
2011-08-30T18:33:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/copper-rises-to-three-week-high-in-london-on-u-s-growth-outlook.html
Copper advanced to a three-week high
in New York on speculation that U.S. economic growth will spur
demand for industrial metals.  Home prices  in the U.S., the world’s second-largest copper
user, showed signs of stabilizing in June, according to data
released today. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in
20 cities fell 4.5 percent from June 2010, after dropping 4.6
percent in the 12 months ended in May. Copper is used in wiring
and plumbing.  Consumer spending  rose more than forecast in July,
showing the biggest part of the economy is holding up.  “The fact that some key U.S. macro numbers have come in
much stronger than expected seems to have quieted recession talk
for the time being,”  Edward Meir , a senior analyst at MF Global
Holdings Ltd. in Darien,  Connecticut , said today in a report.  Copper futures for December delivery rose 3.2 cents, or 0.8
percent, to close at $4.1415 a pound at 1:31 p.m. on the Comex
in  New York , after reaching $4.192, the highest for a most-
active contract since Aug. 5.  Prices have gained 21 percent in the past year, touching a
record $4.6575 on Feb. 15, as demand surged in  China , the
world’s biggest consumer.  Copper is the way “electricity gets transmitted and
consumed, and the electrification of China is not a gamble,”
Steve Shafer, who helps manage $300 million as chief investment
officer of Oklahoma City-based Covenant Investors, said in an
interview last week in New York. “Copper will be the most
important commodity in the next decade.”  In the next 12 months, “the risk associated with the
European debt crisis” and “perceived weakness” in global
growth may “create a window of opportunities to accumulate
copper,” Shafer said. “Higher prices are baked in the cake.”  On the  London  Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months gained $85, or 0.9 percent, to $9,160 a metric ton ($4.15
a pound). The market was closed yesterday for a holiday.  Aluminum, lead, nickel, zinc and tin also rose in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  