-- 
CoreLogic Option Trading Jumped Before Disclosure of Adviser to Weigh Sale

-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   J o a n n a   O s s i n g e r
-- 
2011-08-30T20:32:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/corelogic-option-trading-jumped-before-disclosure-of-adviser-to-weigh-sale.html
CoreLogic Inc. (CLGX) ’s bullish options
trading jumped to the highest level in more than a year
yesterday before the company said it may put itself up for sale.  More than 1,200 calls to buy the stock changed hands
yesterday, 10 times the four-week average, compared with no
trades for puts to sell. CoreLogic shares surged a record 29
percent today, the most since at least 1988, to $11.35.  The surge in options trading happened before U.S. exchanges
shut at 4 p.m. New York time yesterday. Less than two minutes
after the close, the  Santa Ana , California-based provider of
property and credit data said it hired Greenhill & Co. to
consider a sale of the company.  “It’s very suspicious,” Ophir Gottlieb, managing director
of client services at Livevol Inc., a San Francisco-based
provider of options market analytics, said during an interview.
“It seems like someone caught wind of the news before the close
and just went for it.”  Alyson Austin, a spokeswoman for CoreLogic, declined to
comment on the trading. So did  Dan Smith , the company’s senior
vice president of  investor relations , and  John Nester , a
spokesman for the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Almost all of yesterday’s trading was concentrated in
January $10 calls, which changed hands 659 times, and October
$10 calls, which traded 555 times. The January contracts rose
425 percent to $2.10 as of 4 p.m. New York time today. The
October calls jumped 1,233 percent. September $10 calls, which
last traded on Aug. 24, soared 3,100 percent today for the
biggest gain among the company’s options.  Four-Minute Period  Trading of the January $10 calls yesterday all occurred in
a four-minute period starting at 2:35 p.m. New York time,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. October $10 call volume
of 555 was in three trades, the largest of which was a block of
445 contracts also at 2:35 p.m., the data show. About two-thirds
of yesterday’s trades were at the ask price, indicating that
buyers initiated the transactions.  Yesterday’s trading lifted open interest for the January
$10 calls to 1,238 from 638 and the number of existing contracts
for October $10 calls to 1,274 from 720.  Highfields Capital Management LP, a Boston-based hedge-fund
manager, said today it recently urged CoreLogic to explore a
sale and disclose the effort publicly. Highfields is CoreLogic’s
biggest shareholder with a 7.7 percent stake, according to
Highfields and data compiled by Bloomberg.  31% Plunge  Before today, the shares hadn’t closed above $10 since Aug.
4, a day before they plunged 31 percent to $9.92 after the
company reported second-quarter sales that missed analysts’
estimates and Bank of America Corp. cut the stock’s rating to
“neutral” from “buy.”  Trian Fund Management LP, the hedge fund run by billionaire
 Nelson Peltz , said in an Aug. 15 regulatory filing that it owned
1.35 million CoreLogic shares as of June 30. The company wasn’t
listed in the same filing for the first quarter. Trian has
bought stakes in companies such as Family Dollar Stores Inc. and
Dr Pepper Snapple Group Inc. and then pressed for changes in
corporate strategy.  CoreLogic was spun off from title insurer  First American
Financial Corp. (FAF)  in 2010. Competitors include  Lender Processing
Services Inc. (LPS) ,  Equifax Inc. (EFX)  and  Experian Plc (EXPN) , according to a
regulatory filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Joanna Ossinger in New York at 
 jossinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  