-- 
Crude Heads for Monthly Decline in New York as Slower Growth Curbs Demand

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-08-31T12:46:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/crude-in-new-york-declines-after-api-report-signals-increasing-stockpiles.html
Oil fell, headed for its biggest
monthly drop since May in  New York , as signs of swelling
inventories and faltering demand countered speculation the U.S.
will take further steps to bolster its economy.  New York futures declined as much as 1.4 percent, snapping
four days of gains, after the  American Petroleum Institute  said
crude supplies rose 5.13 million barrels last week, the biggest
increase since March. An Energy Department report today may say
inventories fell 500,000 barrels, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  “With the slowdown in economic growth and higher
probability of recession, prices are probably a bit too high,”
said Eliane Tanner, an analyst at Bank Sarasin & Cie AG in
Zurich, who predicts Brent will move toward $95 a barrel by the
end of the year. “I don’t see much further upside.”  Crude for October delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  dropped as much as $1.23 to $87.67 a barrel and was at
$88.11 at 1:41 p.m. London time. The contract yesterday advanced
$1.63 to $88.90. Prices are down 7.9 percent this month and 3.6
percent this year.  Brent oil for October settlement was down 8 cents, or 0.1
percent, at $113.94 on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The European benchmark contract was at a premium of
$25.77 to U.S. West Texas Intermediate futures, compared with a
record close of $26.21 on Aug. 19. Brent is down 2.4 percent
this month.  Oil Stockpiles  Crude oil supplies rose to 352 million barrels, the
industry-funded American Petroleum Institute report showed. They
are about 3.8 percent above the 5-year average, according to
Bloomberg data. Analysts were split before today’s Energy
Department report, with seven respondents in a Bloomberg survey
forecasting a drop in stockpiles and six expecting an increase.  “Bearishness today was mainly because of the API data,”
said  Ken Hasegawa , a commodity-derivatives sales manager at
broker Newedge Group in  Tokyo , who predicts that crude oil may
rise to $90 a barrel by the end of this week after breaching a
technical resistance level at $89 a barrel. “Demand for
gasoline was not so bullish.”  Gasoline inventories declined 3.11 million barrels to 210.8
million last week, according to the API. The Energy Department
report may show they fell 950,000 barrels, the median of 14
analyst estimates showed.  Tropical Storm  Oil-supply totals from the API and the department have
moved in the same direction 71 percent of the time in the past
year. The API collects data on a voluntary basis from operators
of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The government
requires that reports be filed for its weekly survey.  Gasoline extended gains after rising last week as Hurricane
Irene threatened refineries on the U.S. East Coast.  Tropical Storm Katia strengthened in the Atlantic and may
be declared a hurricane today, the U.S. National Hurricane
Center said. Katia, about 985 miles (1,585 kilometers) from the
southern Cape Verde Islands, has winds of 65 miles per hour and
is speeding west-northwest at 21 mph, the NHC said in an
advisory at 5 a.m. New York time.  “The threat of Hurricane Irene has passed, but the U.S.
hurricane season is far from over and September is the peak
month of hurricane activity,”  Mark Pervan , head of commodity
research at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in
Melbourne, said in a note today. The bank estimates oil in New
York will average $100 a barrel in the third quarter.  Gasoline for September delivery gained 1 percent to $3.0245
a gallon today on the New York Mercantile Exchange. It rose 8.94
cents, or 3.1 percent, to $2.9958 yesterday. Prices also
increased after Sunoco Inc. shut a gasoline-making unit at its
Philadelphia refinery. The motor fuel is set for a monthly drop
of 3.6 percent.  Oil slid this month amid signs developed economies are
weakening. U.S. consumer confidence tumbled to the lowest level
since April 2009 and European confidence fell the most since
December 2008 in reports for August yesterday from the
Conference Board in New York and the European Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in  Melbourne  at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  