-- 
Danish Banks Abused Loopholes When Counting Losses, FSA Says

-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 
2011-08-31T11:11:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/danish-banks-abused-loopholes-when-reporting-losses-fsa-s-noedgaard-says.html
Denmark ’s financial watchdog is
stepping up efforts to stop some of the country’s lenders
abusing regulatory loopholes and understating losses as it moves
to clean up Scandinavia’s worst-performing banking industry.  The Financial Supervisory Authority will restrict the
flexibility it gives banks to calculate writedowns under
international financial reporting standards, FSA Director
General Ulrik Noedgaard said in an interview in Copenhagen. The
regulator wants to curb “an optimistic approach” to writedowns
displayed by some banks, he said.  Amagerbanken A/S and Fjordbank Mors A/S collapsed this year
after the FSA told the two regional lenders to write down 1.9
billion kroner ($371 million) more in property and farming loans
than stated in their accounts. The insolvencies triggered the
European Union’s first senior creditor losses within a
resolution framework, and prompted Moody’s Investors Service in
May to downgrade six Danish banks, including Danske Bank A/S,
the country’s biggest. Proper accounting could have helped deal
with the losses in a less disruptive way, Noedgaard said.  “International IFRS rules leave substantial room for
maneuvering for management, and we want to narrow the
possibilities,” Noedgaard said. “It’s aimed at those banks
that have a tendency to have what we could call an optimistic
approach to writedowns.”  Banks Underperforming  Danish financial stocks have lost 31 percent this year,
versus a 20 percent decline in the equivalent gauge in
neighboring  Sweden . Norway’s banking stocks are down 19 percent
in the period. Credit-default swaps on five-year senior debt
issued by Danske Bank this week traded 60 percent higher than
equivalent notes from Stockholm-based Nordea Bank AB, according
to CMA.  The FSA will dictate how banks are to write down “specific
types of exposures,” Noedgaard said in the Aug. 29 interview,
without elaborating. The authority also will tighten solvency
requirements by adopting the more stringent of two models it has
used, he said.  The abuse of accounting freedoms “is mainly among the
small and medium-sized banks,” Noedgaard said.  “Amagerbanken is a good example of a former management
that basically used all this room for maneuver that is in the
IFRS rules to keep the writedowns down,” he said. “They were
testing the limits.”  Stricter Measures  The  FSA  required Amagerbanken to write down almost twice
its reported losses since 2008, leading to the Copenhagen-based
lender’s February insolvency. The authority also demanded
Fjordbank Mors write down 400 million kroner more than the bank
had reported.  The FSA will introduce the stricter measures in phases to
avoid a shock to the banking system, Noedgaard said.  “Both of these initiatives are tightenings so, taking into
account the economic climate that we’re operating in,” the
revised writedown rules will first apply to next year’s accounts
and the more stringent solvency requirements will be implemented
in 2013, he said.  “It could be a significant tightening for certain banks,”
Noedgaard said. “We feel they should have some time to adjust
to that.”  The bank crisis and a stalled housing market have depressed
 consumer spending .  Private consumption  contracted for a second
consecutive quarter, the Danish statistics agency reported
today. Overall, the economy grew 1 percent in the second quarter
as fixed investments and exports offset the spending decline,
the agency said.  ‘Very Weak’  “The underlying growth in the Danish economy is very
weak,” Jes Asmussen, a Copenhagen-based economist for Svenska
Handelsbanken AB, said by phone. “We still have some underlying
problems especially with private consumption.”  Stricter rules on writedowns come as lawmakers formulate
legislation to spur mergers and sidestep the resolution laws,
after senior creditor losses left Danish lenders facing an
international funding wall.  In Denmark’s fourth bank rescue package since 2008,
lawmakers on Aug. 25 agreed that the state assume bad loans and
extend state-guaranteed debt in the event of takeovers.
Guarantees would run as long as 2016, compared with the original
expiry date of 2013. If approved by parliament, the package also
will let merging banks tap the depositor guarantee fund to
finance mergers.  Credit Positive  The package has prompted an inversion in the spread between
the Copenhagen interbank offered rate and the Euribor, the
equivalent rate in the euro area, as Danish costs fell. The
spread was minus 1.7 basis points today compared with plus 1.6
basis points on Aug. 25.  Moody’s said yesterday the measures are “credit positive”
for Denmark’s banks. Per Toernqvist, a Stockholm-based analyst
at  Standard & Poor’s , said Aug. 26 he expects the bank plan to
limit the risk of failures. S&P in July warned existing laws and
the economic climate meant as many as 15 more Danish banks could
default over the next three nears.  Noedgaard, who wants stricter rules on writedowns to
supplement bank rescue efforts, said the government’s proposal
is a necessary step to weaning banks off the guarantees. “A
major worry from our side has been: how will the banks be able
to operate without state guarantees,” he said. Extending it for
merging banks is “sensible,” he said.  “By the middle of 2013, the banks will have had five years
with a state guarantee in one form or another,” Noedgaard said.
“It makes sense to say that if you cannot create a viable
funding structure over five years, there needs to be some kind
of restructuring.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  or
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  