-- 
‘Honeyboy’ Edwards, Delta Blues Guitarist, Singer, Dies at 96

-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-08-30T15:12:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/david-honeyboy-edwards-delta-blues-guitarist-and-singer-dies-at-age-96.html
David “Honeyboy” Edwards, a
guitarist and singer who was present at the creation of the
 Mississippi  Delta’s folk-blues style and was one of its most
enduring practitioners, has died. He was 96.  Edwards died yesterday in Chicago “while resting
peacefully at home,” according to a statement on his  website .
No cause of death was given. He suffered from a weak heart, his
manager, Michael Frank of Earwig Music Co., told the  Associated
Press . Edwards canceled his schedule of concerts when his health
declined in late April, according to the statement.  Edwards, son of a sharecropper, began his career by
crisscrossing the U.S. South on freight trains as a teenager.
His circle of friends included  Robert Johnson , the legendary
blues artist.  During the 1950s, Edwards joined a musical migration to
 Chicago  and found his place in the city’s electric-blues  scene ,
which included  Muddy Waters  and Howlin’ Wolf. He began recording
albums in his 60s and performed into his 90s.  “Edwards embodies the continuity of the blues tradition
and the various pathways it has taken,” University of Maryland
Professor Barry Lee Pearson wrote in the  liner notes  for
“Mississippi Delta Bluesman,” a reissue album from 2001.  The National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences, which
sponsors the Grammy Awards, gave Edwards a lifetime-achievement
award in 2010. He won his only  Grammy  three years earlier for
performing on the album “Last of the Great Mississippi Delta
Bluesmen: Live in  Dallas .”  Originally Honey  Other honors included a  National Heritage Fellowship  from
the National Endowment for the Arts and the Blues Foundation’s
 W.C. Handy Award , now known as the Blues Music Award.  Edwards was born on June 28, 1915, in Shaw, Mississippi. He
was the oldest of four children of Henry and Pearl Phillips
Edwards. His father had three boys and two girls from a previous
marriage.  “When I started to recording, I gave the name of Honeyboy,
but my people only knew me by Honey,” Edwards said in “The
World Don’t Owe Me Nothing,” a 1997  autobiography . He got the
nickname from a half-sister, Lessie, who called him Honey while
trying to get him to walk.  As a nine-year-old, he worked alongside his parents,
plowing fields and picking cotton. The family moved east to
Greenwood, Mississippi.  Leaving Home  At 14, he learned to play a second-hand guitar that his
father had bought for himself. He performed locally and got to
know musicians such as  Tommy Johnson ,  Charley Patton ,  Pinetop
Perkins  and  Sonny Boy Williamson .  Edwards left home at 17 with another blues guitarist,  Big
Joe Williams , to find work playing music. They traveled through
the South for months as hobos, hitching train rides from city to
city, and ended up in  New Orleans .  When he went back to Mississippi, he didn’t return to the
cotton fields. He moved at 19 to Memphis,  Tennessee , where he
backed  Big Walter Horton , a blues harmonica player. They
performed on Beale Street, the hub of the city’s music scene.  Edwards came home the next year, and found out that his
father had died days before his arrival.  “I just run astray after that,” he said in his book, a
collection of stories compiled by Frank and writer Janis
Martinson. “I run all through the country, hoboing and playing
my guitar.”  First Recordings  Robert Johnson , who would inspire  Eric Clapton , was performing in
Greenwood when Edwards visited in 1937. They met and became
friends. The next year, he went to see Johnson play there and
saw the musician was sick, according to the book. Johnson had
drunk poisoned whiskey and later died.  Edwards made his first recordings in 1942 with  Alan Lomax ,
who recorded blues and folk artists for the Library of Congress,
in Clarksdale, Mississippi. The session consisted of 15 songs.  Nine years would pass before Edwards got a chance to record
again. He played four songs for Artist Record Co., a Houston-
based label known as Arc. Two of them, “Build a Cave” and
“Who May Your Regular Be,” were released and credited to “Mr.
Honey.” The single, sold locally, was Arc’s only release.  Sun Records , based in  Memphis , recorded his version of
Johnson’s “Sweet Home Chicago” in 1952. The song went unissued
for years, as did “Drop Down Mama” and three others he
performed for  Chess Records  in Chicago the following year.  Chicago, which he first visited during the late 1940s with
blues harpist Little Walter Jacobs, became his home in 1956. He
played in the city’s blues nightclubs and appeared on  Fleetwood
Mac’s  “Blues Jam in Chicago,” an album released in 1969.  ‘I’ve Been Around’  Edwards’ music was  available  only on compilation albums for
years. After stints with the Milestone, Adelphi and Blue Horizon
labels, he released his debut solo album, “I’ve Been Around,”
in 1978 on Trix Records. The follow-up, “Old Friends,”
featured him with Horton and three other blues musicians that he
knew, Floyd Jones, Kansas City Red and Sunnyland Slim.  “Old Friends” came out on  Earwig , a label founded by
Frank, who met and befriended Edwards in 1972. Frank backed him
in the Honeyboy Edwards Blues Band and performed with him as a
duo.  Earwig released most of his  Library of Congress  recordings
on “Delta Bluesman,” released in 1992. Edwards had albums on
the APO, Document, Evidence, Folkways, Genes and Testament
labels as well. He was featured in “Honeyboy,” a  documentary 
from 2001, and appeared in the 2007  movie , “Walk Hard: the
Dewey Cox Story.”  Edwards’ wife, Bessie, died in 1972 after two decades of
marriage. The couple had a son, David, and a daughter, Betty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at   cstevens@bloomberg.net  