-- 
Deficit Committee Names Staff Director as Republicans Meet

-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-08-30T18:39:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/deficit-supercommittee-names-staff-director-as-republicans-meet.html
The bipartisan congressional
supercommittee tasked with creating a plan to reduce the U.S.
deficit named a Republican as staff director today while the six
Republicans on the panel held an all-day meeting.  Mark Prater, currently deputy staff director and chief tax
counsel on the Senate Finance Committee, has worked on
bipartisan measures on economic growth, taxes, health care and
employment, according to an announcement by committee co-leaders
Senator  Patty Murray  and Representative Jeb Hensarling.  “Mark has a well-earned reputation for being a workhorse
who members of both parties have relied on,” said Murray, a
Washington Democrat, and Hensarling, a Texas Republican.  The Republicans’ private gathering, held during a week when
Congress is in recess and before Democrats on the panel have
met, is primarily to review the committee’s organization, said
Senator  Rob Portman , an Ohio Republican.  The 12-member supercommittee was created in the Aug. 2 law
that raised the nation’s debt limit and averted a default. It
will work to find $1.5 trillion in budget savings over 10 years
to avoid automatic, across-the-board spending cuts. The panel
was given a Nov. 23 deadline to offer a proposal and must
overcome differences over taxes and cuts to entitlement programs
such as Medicare.  Schedule for Meetings  The panel, likely to be the lobbying and political
epicenter on  Capitol Hill  for the next four months, has yet to
announce an official schedule for meetings or to say whether any
of them will be open to the public. Under the new law, the
committee must hold its first meeting by Sept. 16.  It’s not known to what extent the new committee will draw
on the work of previous efforts to curb the debt, including
President Barack Obama’s fiscal commission and a group of six
senators led by Virginia Democrat Mark Warner and Georgia
Republican Saxby Chambliss.  Prater’s bipartisan experience includes his work on the
1997 budget deal under former President  Bill Clinton  that
included increased revenue and the 1990 budget deal that led to
former Republican President  George H.W. Bush  breaking his no-
new-taxes pledge.  “Mark Prater has built a well-deserved reputation as an
honest broker, not just a Republican staffer, well capable of
finding the middle ground and producing results,” said Bill
Dauster, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid’s deputy chief of
staff for policy.  Republican members of the panel attending today’s meeting
are Hensarling, Portman, Representatives Dave Camp of Michigan
and Fred Upton of Michigan and Senators Jon Kyl of Arizona and
Pat Toomey of Pennsylvania.  The Democrats on the panel are Representatives  James Clyburn  of South Carolina,  Chris Van Hollen  of Maryland and
Xavier Becerra California as well as Senators  John Kerry  of
Massachusetts,  Max Baucus  of Montana and Murray.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  