-- 
Disruptions to Food Supply to ‘Ratchet Up Prices,’ Olam’s Verghese Says

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-08-30T03:34:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/disruptions-to-food-supply-to-ratchet-up-prices-olam-s-verghese-says.html
Global food costs will remain
elevated because a potential slowdown in economic growth is
unlikely to hurt demand and weather-related disruptions to
supply could “ratchet up prices,”  Olam International Ltd. (OLAM)  said.  Combined global inventories of wheat, corn and rice will
drop 2.5 percent to a four-year low as farmers fail to keep pace
with demand, U.S. Department of Agriculture data shows.  “The food complex is relatively recession-resistant,”
said Sunny Verghese, chief executive officer of Olam, one of the
world’s three biggest rice suppliers. “Because of the growing
imbalance in the demand and supply of food, and because the
stocks-to-consumption ratios are low, if there’s any weather-
related disruption, it can ratchet up prices.”  Rice, the staple for half the world, jumped 53 percent in
the past year in  Chicago , while corn surged 73 percent and wheat
advanced 12 percent, as flooding, hot temperatures and dry
weather in the U.S. and parts of  Europe  hurt crops. Rising grain
prices helped send the United Nations Food Price Index up 10
times in the 12 months to June and reached a record in February.  Global corn stockpiles were forecast by the USDA to plunge
in the 2011-2012 season to 114.5 million metric tons. That would
be the lowest level in five years as hot weather in the U.S.,
the world’s largest grower and exporter, curbs yields and demand
climbs for the grain used in livestock feeds and ethanol
production.  Corn Deficit  Supply may be even smaller than the USDA estimated as the
harvest in the U.S. shrinks faster than forecast by the
government, Rabobank International analysts led by Luke Chandler
wrote in a report Aug. 26.  The corn market may have an 18.7 million-ton deficit in the
2011-2012 season, more than three times the 6 million ton
forecast by the USDA, according to the Rabobank analysts, who
correctly predicted that yield concerns in the U.S. could push
soybean prices above $14 a bushel.  “We are more friendly to corn than wheat because of
weather-related issues in the U.S.,” Verghese said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television with Susan Li today. “This
could have a fairly significant impact and the continuing growth
of demand from ethanol and the biofuel complex add” to supply
pressures, he said.  The U.S. corn-crop condition deteriorated in the past week
after hot weather hurt crops. About 54 percent of the crop was
in good to excellent conditions as of Aug. 28, down from 57
percent a week earlier and 70 percent a year earlier, the USDA
said in a report yesterday.  Iowa ,  Illinois   Iowa and Illinois, the biggest U.S. corn- and soybean-
growing states, had their hottest July since 1955, according to
state climatology departments. Parts of Iowa, Illinois,
 Minnesota  and  Indiana  received a quarter of normal rainfall this
month, according to the  National Weather Service .  Rice prices will remain firm as the government of  Thailand ,
the world’s largest shipper, buys the grain at above market
prices, locking up some of the nation’s exportable surplus in
state warehouses, Verghese said.  “Thailand is an important exporter,” Verghese said. “The
Thai government policies will have some impact on prices. We
don’t expect it to explode.”  The export price of 100 percent grade-B Thai rice, the
regional benchmark, may rally to $750 per ton by Dec. 31,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
seven exporters, traders and millers conducted last week. That
forecast is $50 higher than the median estimate in a separate
Bloomberg survey undertaken in the first half of this month.  The grain surged to a record $1,038 a ton on May 21, 2008,
a month after the Chicago rice futures advanced to an all-time
high, as exporters including  India  restricted shipments.  Thailand’s buying policy will encourage farmers to boost
rice planting, adding to global output and forcing Prime
Minister Yingluck Shinawatra to sell the excess supply after six
months, Verghese said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  