-- 
East Coast Tourist Meccas Look to Labor Day for Help After Irene

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k   a n d   T o m   M o r o n e y
-- 
2011-08-30T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/east-coast-tourist-meccas-look-to-labor-day-for-help-after-irene.html
Hurricane Irene severed the main
traffic artery of  North Carolina ’s Hatteras Island. It drove
people from the  Jersey Shore . And it cost businesses in Cape Cod
$35 million, said Wendy Norcross, executive director of the
local Chamber of Commerce.  When Irene hit Aug. 27, the storm forced vacationers to
flee some of the East Coast’s most popular spots. Now, officials
and business owners hope Labor Day weekend will revive their
fortunes.  Angelo Argyriadis, owner of the Kream ‘N’ Kone restaurant
in Dennisport,  Massachusetts , said his business was off 60
percent on the weekend of Irene and he’s concerned about
summer’s final week.  “It’ll be quieter than it normally would have been,” said
Argyriadis, 50. “Everybody in the hospitality business will be
hurt and that has a ripple effect.”  Tourists spend about $1 billion a year on Cape Cod and the
islands of Martha’s Vineyard and Nantucket, Norcross said. Half
that comes in June, July and August. The biggest challenge post-
Irene will be luring people dealing with power outages and
damage who live off the cape, she said.  “Our core markets are Boston and Worcester in
Massachusetts; Hartford,  Connecticut ;  New York City  and  New
Jersey , and those people are in recovery mode,” she said.  Empty Rooms  Hotel occupancy was down 70 percent the weekend Irene hit,
Norcross said.  “We are working to try to rescue some of the Labor Day
weekend,” she said.  Efforts will include online banner advertising and posting
images of the sunny weather on the chamber’s Facebook and
Twitter pages.  On Long Beach Island, New Jersey, Rick Reynolds, head of
the Southern Ocean County Chamber of Commerce, estimated about
$4 million to $5 million in lost sales. The 18-mile barrier
island has a year-round population of about 7,500 that may hit
250,000 on busy weekends, Reynolds said.  “Take 175,000 people off of Long Beach Island and anyone
can extrapolate the lost sales,” he said.  Lucrative Season  In 2010, hotels in areas hit by Irene made tens of millions
in the 10 days leading up to and including Labor Day, according
to data from STR Global Inc., based in Hendersonville,
 Tennessee .  New York City hotels received $169 million in revenue
during that period last year, while Long Island hotels took in
$13.2 million. New Jersey hotels got $35.7 million, Virginia
Beach hotels $10 million and Ocean City, Maryland, hotels
another $9.6 million. Coastal North Carolina took in $3.9
million.  In swamped  Vermont , where President  Barack Obama  declared a
disaster, fall foliage tourism season is still a month away,
said Joe McInerney, president and CEO of the Washington-based
American Hotel and Lodging Association. Losses in coastal areas,
McInerney said, were offset in part in New York City, where
“people couldn’t get out, so they were staying in hotels in the
city.”  North Carolina’s  Outer Banks  absorbed the storm’s brunt.
There are four “rather significant breaches” of North Carolina
12 that isolate the beach-house-lined barrier island, Greer
Beaty, a spokeswoman for the state’s Department of
Transportation, said in a telephone interview from Raleigh.  “It’s not going to be a quick fix,” he said.  Chins Up  It had been a good season, said Lee Nettles, managing
director of the Outer Banks Visitors Bureau in Manteo. Occupancy
of rental homes that compose about 80 percent of the business
was up 7 percent through June compared with the same period last
year, he said.  “We’ll get through it, just like we have before,” he
said.  Not everyone believes Labor Day tourism will be back,
particularly in the Outer Banks.  “This means the end of the season for everyone,” said
Avon Lake resident Brad Doerr, 41, who owns two Dairy Queen
franchises, said in an interview.  Life’s Work  Irvin Midgett, of Rodanthe, said Irene pushed an 8-foot
tide through his 6-acre campground, destroying 60 campsites with
trailers left behind by tenants and ruining almost everything
Midgett owns.  “I’ve been building this place by hand for 15 years,”
Midgett, 54, said Aug. 28. “I’ve lost my house, my barn,
everything. And when the phones start working again and my
tenants start calling, I’ll have to tell them their stuff is
destroyed too.”  Tourism officials in other areas said they expected to
return to business quickly.  Ocean City,  Maryland , was little harmed and officials were
working to get the word out to would-be tourists. About 150,000
to 200,000 people were evacuated ahead of the storm.  Jay Knerr, 54, the owner of the Kite Loft on the boardwalk,
said that by mid-morning yesterday people were sunning
themselves.  “Nobody likes to lose money, but it’s an easy thing to
recover from,” he said.  At the Bass River Sports World in Yarmouth, Massachusetts,
the batting cages were empty and the miniature golf course had
about a dozen players yesterday morning. Cashier Bill Parkins,
79, said he was hopeful things would turn around.  “We’re a little slow but the jury is still out,” he said.
“We’re having beautiful weather and that can change everything
around.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Moroney in Boston at 
 tmorrone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  