-- 
Medtronic, NuVasive Spar Over Surgical Patent Infringement in Jury Trial

-- B y   B i l l   C a l l a h a n
-- 
2011-08-30T21:27:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/medtronic-nuvasive-spar-over-surgical-patent-infringement-in-jury-trial.html
Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  and NuVasive Inc.,
makers of medical devices for spinal surgery, are each seeking
to convince a  San Diego  federal jury that the other infringed
patents relating to products used in minimally invasive
surgeries.  Warsaw Orthopedic Inc., a unit of Minneapolis-based
Medtronic, accuses San Diego-based NuVasive of infringing three
patents for implants capable of being inserted translaterally
between adjacent vertebrae, a plate and screw system used to
stabilize vertebrae in the cervical spine and a tissue
retractor, according to court filings.  Medtronic lawyer Luke Dauchot told jurors in his opening
statement today that the company’s damages are “substantial”
and that a financial expert will present one option for
calculating lost profits at $200 million and “another that is
even much higher than that.”  “Yes, it’s a lot,” Dauchot said. “But the damages are
strictly, strictly limited to the loss of profits.”  NuVasive alleges that another Medtronic unit, Medtronic
Sofamor Danek USA, infringes its patent for a nerve monitoring
system for lateral spinal surgery, according to court filings.  NuVasive lawyer Frank Scherkenbach told jurors that
NuVasive products don’t infringe the Medtronic patents. He said
NuVasive’s technology is the product of independent development,
was first put on the market in 2003 and soon “changed the face
of spinal surgery.” He said that in 2003 Medtronic possessed no
such technology.  ‘We Didn’t Copy’  “We didn’t copy,” he said. “NuVasive copied nothing.”  He said Nuvasive’s devices became so successful that the
small company which originated in an orthopedic surgeon’s garage
became a target for the much larger Medtronic.  “They wanted in on this product,” he said.  U.S. District Judge Michael M. Anello is presiding over the
trial.  The case is Medtronic Sofamor Danek USA v.  NuVasive Inc. (NUVA) ,
3:08-cv-1512, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
 California  (San Diego).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Callahan in San Diego at 
 callahan@san.rr.com .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 