-- 
Medvedev Names Ex-Security Officer as St. Petersburg Governor

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 
2011-08-30T11:11:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/medvedev-names-ex-security-officer-as-st-petersburg-governor.html
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev 
named ex-Soviet security officer Georgy Poltavchenko as governor
of  St. Petersburg , the second largest Russian city and hometown
of Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin .  “This is a major responsibility that you should carry out
with honor,” Medvedev told Poltavchenko today at his residence
in the Black Sea resort of Sochi. The new governor’s candidacy
must be approved by the St. Petersburg parliament, which is
dominated by the ruling United Russia party.  Poltavchenko, 58, replaces Valentina Matviyenko, the
outgoing governor, who will lead the upper house of parliament.
A St. Petersburg native and presidential envoy for the Central
Federal District that includes the Russian capital, Poltavchenko
 worked  for the Russian security services between 1979 and 1992.
He was appointed acting governor on Aug. 22.  Matviyenko’s departure follows the ouster of former Moscow
Mayor Yury Luzhkov last September and comes as  Russia  prepares
for parliamentary elections in December and a 2012 presidential
contest in which Putin may seek to return to the Kremlin.  “Poltavchenko is a compromise figure and is really already
the governor,” Mikhail Vinogradov, head of the St. Petersburg
Politics Foundation, said in an Aug. 22 telephone interview.
“On the one hand, he’s Putin confidante, but he’s also worked
with Medvedev.”  St. Petersburg is  Europe ’s fourth most populous  city  after
London, Moscow and Paris with a population of about 4.6 million
people, and is also the hometown of Medvedev.  Federation Council  Medvedev, who Putin chose to replace him as president in
2008 after completing the maximum two consecutive terms allowed
by the constitution, in June  backed  Matviyenko to lead the
Federation Council, Russia’s upper house, and become the
nation’s third-highest-ranking official.  Matviyenko, who had governed St. Petersburg since 2003, won
more than 93 percent of votes in two municipal districts last
week, becoming eligible for the job in the Federation Council.  Boris Nemtsov , an opposition leader and deputy prime
minister under late President  Boris Yeltsin , wrote on his  blog 
that independent candidates were barred from running against
Matviyenko, calling her election “a practice run of the fraud”
planned during the parliamentary and presidential polls.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Sochi at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  