-- 
Lehman Bankruptcy Judge Approves Liquidation Plan for Vote by Creditors

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-08-30T17:26:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/lehman-bankruptcy-judge-approves-liquidation-plan-for-vote-by-creditors.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  won
approval to send its liquidation plan to creditors for a vote as
the failed investment bank works to wind down its three-year
stay in bankruptcy.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck in Manhattan today
approved the description of the plan creditors will use to
evaluate the proposal and said voting could begin.  Lehman creditors are getting their say after the investment
bank filed for bankruptcy in September 2008. Chief Executive
 Bryan Marsal  has said he plans to raise as much as $65 billion
to pay claims. Total claims will come to about $360 billion,
 Harvey Miller , Lehman’s bankruptcy attorney, said at the
hearing.  Lehman’s success in getting to this stage in the case
“borders on the miraculous,” Peck said. “Heroic efforts have
achieved a very important transition point in the case.”  Creditors have until Nov. 4 to vote on the proposal. New
York-based Lehman is scheduled to return to court in December to
ask Peck to approve the plan, after which it would make
distributions to creditors.  “Today is a landmark day,” Miller told Peck.  Lehman’s proposal is the result of a settlement it reached
with two groups of creditors that opposed an earlier plan and
were pushing their own ideas for distributing remaining assets.  Goldman Sachs  One group was made up of senior bondholders, including
Paulson & Co. The second included  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
other banks. Those groups now back Lehman’s proposal, and Lehman
says it has the support of creditors holding claims of more than
$100 billion.  A group of creditors, including Germany’s central bank and
Centerbridge Credit Advisors, filed objections, saying Lehman
hadn’t disclosed sufficient information to evaluate the
proposal. Lehman in response agreed to make added disclosures
and said remaining objections should be overruled.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 