-- 
Telecom NZ Shares Slump After Split Details, CEO Departure Announced

-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-08-31T05:32:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/telecom-new-zealand-falls-after-split-details-ceo-s-departure-announced.html
Telecom Corp. of  New Zealand  fell by
the most in more than three weeks in Wellington after the
company said its chief executive officer will leave and amid
concern a structural split may leave earnings more vulnerable.  Telecom fell 3.6 percent to NZ$2.54 in Wellington. The
shares, which have climbed 17 percent this year, dropped as much
as 7 percent earlier today. The company is trading ex-
entitlement to its 7.5 cents a share fourth-quarter dividend and
a 2 cents special dividend today.  Telecom will begin searching for a new chief executive
officer to replace Paul Reynolds in 2012, according to a
statement. The company will also complete a planned structural
split by the end of November, which will lead to the creation
two independently listed companies, Telecom and Chorus, it said.
Chorus owns and operates network infrastructure, while Telecom
is the retail business.  “There is some concern over the break-up of earnings
between the two units,” Guy Hallwright, an analyst at Forsyth
Barr in Auckland, said in a telephone interview. “Some people
in the market were expecting more of the earnings to be
attributed to Chorus, considered the less risky part of the
business.”  On a pro-forma basis for full-year 2011, the Chorus
network-infrastructure unit generated earnings before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortization of NZ$606 million ($517
million), while Telecom generated NZ$885 million, the company
said.  Fixed Network  As part of the demerger, holders will receive one share in
the Chorus unit for every five existing Telecom shares held.
Telecom will remain New Zealand’s largest telecommunications
company after generating revenue of NZ$5.1 billion in the year
through June, it said. Chorus will own 93 percent of the
nation’s fixed-line network, recording revenues of NZ$1.1
billion over the same period.  Telecom agreed to split its retail and infrastructure units
prior to partnering with the government in building a high-speed
broadband network throughout the country.  Chorus will be a main partner to deliver fast internet in
24 regions including Auckland and Wellington, representing 70
percent of the nation’s coverage area.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net 
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net  