-- 
Eletrobras in Talks to Buy Portugal Government Stake in EDP

-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 
2011-08-30T21:33:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/eletrobras-in-talks-to-buy-portugal-government-stake-in-edp-1-.html
Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET3) ,
Latin America’s largest publicly traded utility, is in talks to
buy a stake in EDP-Energias de Portugal SA from the Portuguese
government, an executive said.  “This deal looks interesting and fits into our strategy to
expand internationally,” Armando Casado de Araujo, chief
financial officer of Eletrobras, as the Brazilian power producer
is known, told reporters today in  Sao Paulo .  Portugal’s Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  said June 30
he planned to sell the stake in the third quarter. Eletrobras
said in March it was in the technical and economic analysis
stage of a possible investment in Lisbon-based EDP.  The sale of EDP is one of the measures the  Portuguese
government  pledged to take in exchange for a 78 billion-euro
($112 billion) bailout from the European Union and the
International Monetary Fund earlier this year. Portugal holds a
25 percent stake in EDP.  To pay for the EDP stake it is “natural” to seek
financing from banks, Araujo said. State-run Eletrobras doesn’t
plan to sell shares to fund the acquisition, he said.  Eletrobras is in the “initial stages” of a possible sale
of 10-year bonds, Araujo said. Funds from the sale would be used
as a hedge for sales from electricity at the Itaipu dam, a joint
venture between Brazil and Paraguay.  Eletrobras aims to add about 18,300 megawatts of
electricity from hydrodams outside  Brazil . Latin America’s
second-largest power generator also seeks to build 5,100
kilometers (3,170 miles) of power lines outside Brazil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in Buenos Aires at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  