-- 
Telkom South Africa May Make a Major Deal in Africa ‘Soon,’ Minister Says

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-08-30T15:30:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/telkom-south-africa-considers-major-african-acquisition-minister-says.html
Telkom  South Africa  Ltd.,  Africa ’s
largest fixed-line phone operator, is “considering a major
transaction in Africa” and may announce details soon,
Communications Minister Roy Padayachie said today.  “The board is busy with a major deal,” Padayachie said
today in an interview on the sidelines of the company’s annual
shareholders’ meeting in Johannesburg. “Telkom will make an
announcement soon.”  The minister was responding to questions about whether
Telkom will make an acquisition in the rest of Africa after it
sold its investment in Nigeria’s Multi-Links Telecommunications
Ltd. Telkom bought Multi-Links for $410 million in 2007 and
spent a total 9.8 billion rand on the Lagos-based company before
announcing its disposal for $10 million on June 28.  The government is Telkom’s major shareholder with a direct
39.8 percent stake and controls another 10.89 percent through
the  Government Employees Pension Funds , which invests the
pensions of the state’s employees, according to the company’s
 annual report  for the year ended March 31.  Telkom shares pared gains of as much as 2.7 percent, to
close 0.9 percent higher at 35 rand at the 5 p.m. close of
Johannesburg trading.  Padayachie, representing the government’s shareholding,
wouldn’t comment any further. ”You have to be patient, Telkom
will make the announcement when the time is right, but the board
is busy with a deal,” he said.  ‘Important Lessons’  Speaking at the meeting, Telkom chairman Lazarus Zim had
said the company still wants to make acquisitions outside its
home market of South Africa after its failure with Multi-Links,
which never reported a profit while Telkom owned it. He said the
company needed to build a sustainable business in Africa.  ”There were expensive and important lessons that we learnt
in  Nigeria ,” said Zim.  Telkom has ”not identified attractive acquisition targets
in Africa at this juncture,” company spokesman Pynee Chetty
said in a written statement. The group’s focus ”is currently to
improve the performance of existing” businesses, he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  