-- 
Telstra Told by Regulator to Revise Split Plan

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-08-30T05:00:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/telstra-told-by-regulator-to-revise-plan-for-split.html
Telstra Corp.’s plan to split off
its fixed-line assets should be revised to ensure rival
telecommunications companies will get fair access to its
network,  Australia ’s antitrust regulator said. The shares fell.  The Melbourne-based company needs a “clear and enforceable 
commitment” to ensure equal access to its copper-wire network, 
the Australian Competition & Consumer Commission said in an 
e-mailed statement. The current proposal, which would see 
Telstra’s fixed-line customers transferred to the government-
backed National Broadband Network by 2018, doesn’t have a 
compliance plan after that date, the regulator said.  Telstra, Australia’s biggest phone company, agreed with the
government in June to give up control of the nation’s only
fixed-line network so the NBN could be built, in exchange for
compensation worth A$11 billion ($11.7 billion). The agreement
was to end its role as a wholesaler of phone and Internet to
other providers, leaving it to focus on selling directly to
customers.  “It seems to be a discussion around structuring the
agreement to comply with legislative requirements and not an all
out assault on the deal’s merit,”  Peter Esho, chief market
analyst at Sydney-based City Index Australia Pty, wrote in e-
mailed comments today. “The ACCC’s decision to voice concerns
over Telstra’s structural separation is not a deal breaker.”  Telstra shares fell as much as 4.9 percent, the biggest
intraday drop in a week, and were 2.9 percent lower at A$2.98 as
of 2:13 p.m. in Sydney.  “Telstra will need to consider the ACCC’s concerns before
submitting a revised structural separation undertaking that is
capable of acceptance by the ACCC,” the regulator said.  Telstra, rivals and consumers have until Sept. 27 to make
further submissions on the plan. The company intends to hold a
shareholder vote on the proposal in October.  “Telstra believes these issues can be resolved in a way
consistent with out principle of protecting  shareholder value ,
and the company will continue to work closely with the ACCC to
address its concerns,” the company said in an e-mailed
statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  