-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Gain a Third Day as Economies in India, Poland Grow

-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-08-30T21:55:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/emerging-stocks-gain-a-third-day-as-improved-u-s-spending-boosts-optimism.html
Emerging-market stocks rose for a
third day as economies in  India  and Poland grew more quickly
than expected, and the  Federal Reserve  said some policy makers
wanted to take more action to stimulate the economy.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index advanced 0.9 percent to
1,013.68 at 5:35 p.m. New York time, the highest in two weeks.
Brazil’s Bovespa Index and Chile’s Ipsa Index both rose to a
four-week high after a three-day increase. India’s benchmark
jumped 1.6 percent, posting the biggest two-day advance in two
years. Poland WIG20 Index advanced 1.7 percent and South Korea’s
Kospi Index increased 0.8 percent.  The three-day gain helped MSCI’s emerging-market gauge pare
its monthly loss to 12 percent. India’s economy expanded 7.7
percent in the quarter ended June 30, and  Poland  grew 4.3
percent, reports showed today.  The Fed’s minutes released today showed that a few members
“felt that recent economic developments justified a more
substantial move” beyond the pledge adopted at the Aug. 9
meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee to hold its key
 interest rate  at a record low until mid-2013.  “Stocks have been oversold, so any positive data point
will tend to lift the markets,” said Gopal Agrawal, chief
investment officer at the Indian unit of Mirae Asset Financial
Group in Mumbai. A speech by Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke in
 Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , last week “was, in many ways, better
than what people had anticipated as it clearly showed he is more
optimistic about long-term prospects for the U.S.,” he said.  Index Valuations  Developing countries’ equities have trailed their
developed-nation counterparts this year, with the MSCI emerging-
market index on course for its biggest monthly retreat since
October 2008. The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index has lost 7.8 percent in
August. Emerging-market shares trade at 10.5 times estimated
earnings, less than 12.7 times for the MSCI World Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  India’s GDP data compares with growth of 7.8 percent the
previous quarter and beat the median forecast of a 7.6 percent
increase by economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , owner of the world’s largest oil-
refining complex, jumped 3.6 percent.  Brazilian wholesale, construction and consumer prices, as
measured by the IGP-M price index, gained for the first time in
three months in August, rising 0.44 percent, compared with a
0.12 percent decline in July, the Getulio Vargas Foundation
said.  B2W Cia. Global do Varejo, the nation’s largest online
retailer, jumped 4.8 percent, leading gains in the benchmark
gauge. PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos & Participacoes,  Brazil ’s
biggest homebuilder by revenue, gained after it was raised to
“buy” at Banco BTG Pactual SA.  Miners  Brazil’s Vale SA and Cap SA, Chile’s largest steel producer
and iron miner, both rose as base metal prices gained.  Bernanke said in his Aug. 26 speech that a second day has
been added to the next Fed meeting in September to “allow a
fuller discussion” of the economy and possible policy
responses.  Confidence among U.S. consumers plunged to the lowest level
in more than two years as Americans’ outlooks for employment and
incomes soured. The Conference Board’s index slumped to 44.5,
the weakest since April 2009, from a revised 59.2 reading in
July, figures from the New York-based private research group
showed today.  The global economic crisis is leading to a possible
“developed economy” recession in the U.S. and  Europe , which
may be hard to alleviate, according to Pacific Investment
Management Co.’s Bill Gross.  Pimco  In this environment, the world’s biggest manager of bond
funds favors investing in  Australia , Mexico, Brazil and Canada,
along with non-dollar currencies that have strong ties to the
Asian continent, Gross, co-chief investment officer and founder
of Pimco, wrote in a monthly investment commentary published on
the company’s website today.  KGHM Polska Miedz SA (KGH) , Poland’s largest copper producer,
jumped 3.3 percent. The country’s economic expansion beat the
4.2 percent median estimate of 30 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. PBG SA, the nation’s third-largest builder, jumped 5
percent after earnings surpassed estimates.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Chinese companies’
so-called H shares jumped 2.2 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 366, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index. The Markit iTraxx SOVX CEEMEA Index of
credit-default swaps for emerging Europe, the  Middle East  and
Africa fell nine basis points to 259, according to CMA in
London.  Markets in Turkey,  Indonesia , Malaysia and the Philippines
were closed for public holidays.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in  London  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 