-- 
Emkay’s Singhal Recommends Farm Stocks After India GDP Data

-- B y   T a n y a   A s h r e e n a
-- 
2011-08-30T06:40:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/emkay-s-singhal-recommends-farm-stocks-after-india-gdp-data.html
Sandeep Singhal, co-head of
institutional equities at Emkay Global Financial Services Ltd.
comments on  India ’s economic growth. Singhal spoke on phone from
Mumbai.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index rose 1.2 percent
to 16,616.70 at 11:08 a.m. Mumbai time, extending its steepest
rally since May 2009.  India’s economy  grew 7.7 percent in the three months ended
June 30 from a year earlier, the nation’s  Central Statistics
Office  said in a statement in  New Delhi  today. The median of 26
estimates in a Bloomberg survey was for a 7.6 percent increase.  On economic growth:  “Agricultural and services sectors have contributed year
on year positively. Due to seasonal factor, agricultural sector
is declining sequentially.  ‘‘Industrials have done badly year on year. This was
evident because  consumer goods  durable and nondurable have done
badly. Most of the growth had come because of capital goods
contribution and robust manufacturing.  On investment strategy:  ‘‘We had advised investors to go on defensive. But now we
advise consumer goods and pharmaceuticals and also the
information technology sector, which has corrected. The
structural buy we advise is agricultural input.  ‘‘A two-pronged strategy should be followed. One is to
raise cash so you can deploy it at appropriate time. For those
looking at impulsive buy, cyclicals and industrial should be
looked at.  ‘‘We advise investors to avoid global cyclical like metals
as it is a risky sector due to the global decline. Iron ore
prices may be firm if Karnataka mines close down. Steel industry
could also be vulnerable.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Ashreena in Mumbai at 
 tashreena@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  