-- 
Estonian Finance Minister to Run for Central Bank Governor

-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 
2011-08-30T13:22:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/estonian-finance-minister-to-run-for-central-bank-governor-1-.html
Estonian Finance Minister Juergen Ligi will run for the job of the Baltic nation’s central bank
governor when  Andres Lipstok ’s term expires in June.  Ligi said his “key assets for the job of Estonian central
bank governor are the experience in managing Estonia’s economy
and the knowledge of the eurozone finances,” according to a
statement e-mailed by the  Finance Ministry .  The 52-year-old Ligi was asked to apply for Lipstok’s
position by Jaan Mannik, the bank’s supervisory board chairman.
Lipstok, whose seven-year term ends June 6, 2012, became a
voting member of the European Central Bank council when Estonia
adopted the euro on Jan. 1. He can’t be re-elected.  The bank plans to release the names of candidates tomorrow,
Viljar Raask, a central bank spokesman, said today.  The central bank’s eight-member supervisory board will meet
Sept. 6 to draw up a list of two to four candidates, Mannik said
in June. Lipstok’s successor must be backed by five board
members and approved by Estonian President Toomas Ilves.  Ligi, who has degrees in geography and international
economies from Tartu University in  Estonia , oversaw the
implementing of austerity measures equal to 9 percent of
economic output in 2009 for the country to remain on course to
adopt the euro. He was reappointed in April after the ruling
coalition won a larger majority in March elections.  Other candidates for the job are Ardo Hansson, the World
Bank’s chief economist for  China ; Andres Sutt, a senior adviser
at the  International Monetary Fund ; Aare Jarvan, an adviser to
Prime Minister  Andrus Ansip  and Andres Tupits, a senior
associate with the Sorainen legal office in Tallinn,  Baltic News
Service  reported on Aug. 25, citing central bank board member
Kalev Kallo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  