-- 
EU Hostile Takeovers, Tax Overhaul, Fitch-Calpers, Sino-Forest: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-08-30T11:28:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/eu-hostile-takeovers-fitch-calpers-sino-forest-compliance.html
The European Union may consider
expanding options available to companies to block hostile
takeovers as part of a review of legislation on corporate
acquisitions.  The  European Commission  in Brussels is examining whether
firms have too little power to use defensive measures such as
share-transfer restrictions or multiple voting rights to prevent
a hostile takeover, according to a letter from the regulator
obtained by Bloomberg News.  EU regulators have struggled to clarify how far companies
can go under existing law to protect themselves against unwanted
takeovers.  Hermes International (RMS)  SCA, the maker of Birkin bags,
won a waiver of French market rules to shield itself against a
possible bid from  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  earlier
this year.  The commission will examine “control structures and
barriers to takeovers,” according to the letter, sent to law
firms and trade associations earlier this month. It will also
examine how EU rules on issues such as treatment of minority
shareholders during an acquisition compare with those in other
regions.  The review is being carried out to satisfy a requirement
that it assess how well a 2004 law on takeover bids is working.  The study is part of an early fact-finding process, Olivier
Bailly, a spokesman for the commission, said in an e-mail. The
results will be available by the end of this year, he said.  For more, click here.  Special Section:  Jackson Hole   Central Bankers Urge Governments to Throw Economic Lifeline  Central bankers gathered at an annual retreat in Jackson
Hole, Wyoming, this weekend had a message for political leaders:
monetary policy alone can’t keep the global expansion going.  Federal Reserve  Chairman Ben S. Bernanke urged adoption of
“good, proactive housing policies” to reverse the depressed
U.S. real estate market and warned lawmakers to avoid steps that
may hurt short-term growth. Ewald Nowotny of the  European
Central Bank Governing Council  said euro-area governments should
expand the powers of their regional bailout fund.  “Most of the economic policies that support robust
economic growth in the long run are outside the province of the
central bank,” Bernanke said at the annual conference of policy
makers and economists, sponsored by the Kansas City Fed.  The call to arms ended a month in which the Fed and the ECB
raced to shield their economies from fiscal tightening and
strengthen a world economy that is losing momentum. Reports this
week may underscore the challenges faced by policy makers: U.S.
payroll growth probably slowed in August, and confidence in
 Europe ’s economy fell to its lowest since April 2010, economists
forecast. Fed policy makers will meet for two days in September
instead of one so they can discuss options for spurring growth.  The policy makers met for three days to discuss ways to
bolster long-term economic performance. They gathered as banks
from  UBS AG (UBSN)  to  Citigroup Inc. (C)  cut their forecasts for global
expansion and predicted the Fed, ECB and Bank of  Japan  will keep
benchmark  interest rates  at or near record lows through 2012.  The dilemma for policy makers is that four years to the
month since the start of the global credit crisis they have
fewer remedies to aid the faltering expansion. Government budget
deficits are high and interest rates are already at or near
record lows.  For more of this story, click here.  Separately,  Brown University  economist Ross Levine said in
a paper for the conference that regulators aiming to improve
financial systems through tougher capital rules should also
focus on strengthening market discipline.  Levine examined the topic in his paper titled “Regulating
Finance and Regulators to Promote Growth” released Aug. 27 at
the annual meeting.  Stanley Says Fed ‘Relatively Optimistic’ on U.S. Economy  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont Securities
LLC, discussed the U.S. economy and Ben S. Bernanke’s Aug. 26
speech at the symposium in Jackson Hole, Wyoming.  For the video, click here, and for more commentary, click
here.  Hubbard Says ‘Total Overhaul’ of U.S. Tax Code is Needed  Glenn Hubbard, dean of  Columbia University ’s Graduate
School of Business, talked about Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke’s Aug. 26 speech at the symposium in Jackson Hole,
Wyoming, and the outlook for the U.S. economy and an overhaul of
the nation’s tax code.  For the video, click here.  Compliance Policy  House Will Focus on Eliminating Federal Regulations, Cantor Says  Republicans will focus on limiting government regulations,
including environmental and labor rules, that are creating
“burdens to job creators,” U.S. House Majority Leader  Eric
Cantor  said.  The agenda for the rest of the year will include repealing
or scaling back Environmental Protection Agency rules on power
plant pollution, ozone standards and greenhouse gas emissions,
Cantor, a Virginia Republican, said yesterday in a memo to
Republican lawmakers.  House Republicans also plan legislation to prevent the
 National Labor Relations Board  from restricting where an
employer can create jobs, he said.  The labor board has been accused by Republicans and
business groups such as the  U.S. Chamber of Commerce  of pushing
a pro-union agenda. The House will also work on a plan that
would give small business owners a tax incentive for hiring and
expansion, he said.  Senator Charles Schumer, a New York Democrat, said House
Republicans are “‘struggling to play catch-up’’ following a
call by Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke ‘‘called for
more aggressive fiscal policies than they have supported so
far.’’  Lawmakers return from their August recess next week.  Fed Researcher Sees Little Harm to Growth From Capital Buffers  Tougher capital requirements aimed at offsetting future
financial crises may protect banks with little harm to the
economy, a Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco economist said.  ‘‘These buffers raise the classic regulatory dilemma of
safety versus economic growth, but may provide protection
against financial calamity at an acceptable cost,’’ Oscar Jorda,
a research adviser at the regional Fed bank, said in a paper
released yesterday.  Policy makers are trying to design regulations that account
for swings in the economy and financial markets and avoid a
repeat of the financial panic that began with the collapse of
subprime mortgage market in 2007. The Basel Committee on Bank
Supervision last year proposed requiring banks to increase their
quantity and quality of capital.  Under Basel III the idea of variable or countercyclical
buffers was introduced, which would require institutions to
boost capital amid lending booms to strengthen balance sheets
and slow any credit bubbles. International, systemically
important firms would be asked to hold extra equity.  Jorda cited studies of the economic impact. ‘‘These
estimates should be woven into the regulatory decision-making
process,’’ Jorda said in the bank’s Economic Letter.  Compliance Action  Rehn Says European Banks Are Moving Forward on Boosting Capital  European banks are ‘‘moving forward’’ in their efforts to
boost capital in the aftermath of the region’s latest round of
stress tests,  European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs 
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said.  Rehn made the remarks yesterday in the prepared text for a
speech to the European Parliament’s economic committee in
Brussels. ‘‘EU banks are significantly better capitalized now
than they were one year ago,” he said.  Christine Lagarde , the new International Monetary Fund
chief, said on Aug. 27 that European banks should be forced to
build up their capital to prevent the debt crisis from infecting
more countries. Lagarde, a former French finance minister who
took the helm at the Washington-based IMF in July, said banks
should add “substantial” amounts of capital and said a
mandatory move would be the most efficient process.  SEC Sues Florida Men for Bilking Teachers in $22 Million Scam  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sued two
Florida men, claiming they defrauded teachers and retirees in a
$22 million Ponzi scheme by posing as a private-equity fund
while enriching themselves.  James D. Risher and Daniel Sebastian fraudulently lured
more than 100 investors with promises of annual returns of as
much as 124 percent, the SEC said yesterday in a lawsuit filed
in U.S. District Court in Florida. Risher, who spent 11 of the
past 21 years in jail, spent customers’ funds on jewelry, gifts
and real estate in North Carolina and Florida, the SEC said.  Sebastian attracted clients from his prior job as an
insurance broker, persuading at least one investor to liquidate
an annuity and invest the proceeds in the fund, according to the
SEC. The two men paid themselves millions of dollars in fees and
sent customers false account statements, the SEC said.  Burton Wiand, Sebastian’s attorney, said in a telephone
interview that his client had been “deceived” by Risher and
voluntarily reported the scheme to the SEC and criminal
authorities once it became evident to him. Sebastian has since
cooperated with government officials as well as attorneys
representing former clients, Wiand said.  Risher was indicted on related criminal charges June 29. A
phone call to Adam Allen, a public defender who has represented
Risher in the criminal matter, wasn’t immediately returned.  Deceased Enron CEO Lay Triumphs Over IRS in Tax Court  Kenneth Lay, the deceased chief executive officer of Enron
Corp., defeated the Internal Revenue Service in the agency’s bid
to collect $3.9 million from his estate and his wife, the U.S.
Tax Court ruled. Deirdre Bolton reports on Bloomberg
Television’s “InsideTrack.”  For the video, click here.  New U.S. Consumer Hotline Not Routing Some Complaints to Banks  Some consumer credit-card complaints haven’t reached banks
that issued the cards because of technical problems in the new
system created by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau,
industry groups and regulators said.  The month-old complaint response system has failed to
properly route all inquiries, a problem bureau spokeswoman Jen
Howard said the agency will resolve “within a matter of
weeks.” Howard didn’t say how many complaints have been held
up.  The agency launched the system, which is required by the
Dodd-Frank financial-overhaul law, on July 21. Its website
invites consumers to file complaints about credit cards, the
most common form of consumer credit, and will eventually cover
other financial services. Previously complaints about banks were
handled by agencies including the Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the
Federal Reserve, all of which now refer calls to the bureau.  Some banks found that their volume of complaints dropped as
the bureau’s system failed to work properly, said Richard Hunt,
head of the  Consumer Bankers Association . The banks were
concerned they might be blamed for unanswered queries, he said.  Howard said in an e-mailed response to questions that the
bureau expects the technical issues to be resolved in “a matter
of weeks.”  Richard Riese, a senior vice president at the American
Bankers Association Center for Regulatory Compliance, said the
start-up problems demonstrate that the bureau is “clearly not
prepared to take on the transfer of these responsibilities.”  Not all banks are seeing the problems. Paul Hartwick, a
spokesman for Chase Card Services, a part of  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  said the bureau’s system is functioning properly.  For more, click here.  Courts  Fitch Settles Calpers Suit Over SIV Ratings, Makes No Payout  Fitch Ratings Ltd. settled California Public Employees’
Retirement System’s negligence claims over its ratings on
structured investment vehicles that later collapsed.  Under the settlement Fitch will make no payment to Calpers,
the biggest U.S. pension fund, said Daniel Noonan, a Fitch
spokesman. A notice of the settlement was filed Aug. 26,
according to state court records in San Francisco.  “Fitch is pleased with the resolution of this case and the
disposition reached with Calpers,” Noonan said yesterday in an
e-mail. Noonan declined to comment about other terms of the
settlement.  Calpers sued Moody’s Investors Service Inc., Standard &
Poor’s and Fitch in July 2009 claiming $1 billion in losses
alleging inaccurate risk assessments of three structured
investment vehicles, or SIVs. The three ratings services had
given the SIVs their highest ratings. Fitch is a unit of Paris-
based  Fimalac (FIM)  SA.  Brad Pacheco, a Calpers spokesman, didn’t immediately
return a message seeking comment yesterday.  A state court judge in San Francisco ruled in December that
the ratings by the three companies are a form of free speech
protected under California law.  The case is Calpers v. Moody’s, 09-490241, Superior Court
of California, County of San Francisco.  Canadian Trading Firm Appeals $13 Million FSA Market-Abuse Fine  The chief executive officer of Swift Trade Inc., a defunct
Canadian trading firm, appealed an 8 million-pound ($13 million)
U.K. fine for market abuse, saying a court will review evidence
in the case.  The Financial Service Authority’s allegations against the
Toronto-based company, which was dissolved in December, have
been referred to the Upper Tribunal, former Swift Trade CEO
Peter Beck said in a statement.  Swift Trade is accused of “layering,” in which multiple
buy orders for shares are submitted and withdrawn to manipulate
the price of a security. The company last week failed in a legal
bid to prevent the U.K. regulator from publishing details of its
investigation in a notice about the penalty.  The FSA may publish the notice this week, Judge Wyn
Williams said at last week’s hearing.  Joseph Eyre , a spokesman
for the FSA in  London , declined to comment.  Swift Trade also faces a regulatory probe in Canada.  Swift Trade will contest the allegations in a Canadian
tribunal next year, the company said in a statement.  Comings and Goings  Obama Names Krueger to Head Council of Economic Advisers  President Barack Obama spoke at the White House about his
decision to nominate Alan Krueger, a labor economist and former
Treasury official, to lead the White House Council of Economic
Advisers.  The nomination is subject to Senate confirmation. Krueger,
who returned to Princeton University last November after serving
as the Treasury Department’s chief economist for two years,
would replace Austan Goolsbee. Obama also discussed federal
efforts to assist the recovery from Hurricane Irene.  For the video, click here.  Sino-Forest CEO Resigns Amid Investigation, Share Suspension  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) ’s Chief Executive Officer and Chairman
 Allen Chan  resigned two days after a Canadian securities
regulator said the company may have exaggerated timber holdings,
the same charge made by short seller Carson Block in June.  Chan “voluntarily resigned” both positions, the Hong
Kong- and Mississauga, Ontario-based company said in a statement
Aug. 28. Chan was replaced by Executive Director Judson Martin
as CEO and William Ardell as chairman. Ardell is leading Sino-
Forest’s internal investigation of Block’s allegations.  Sino-Forest’s U.S. traded shares were halted after tumbling
72 percent to $1.38 on Aug. 26 in over-the-counter trading. The
Ontario Securities Commission halted trading in Sino-Forest’s
shares on Aug. 26 and said the company may have misrepresented
revenue. Sino-Forest has plunged 67 percent in Toronto since
Block’s Muddy Waters LLC published a report June 2 alleging that
the company was a “fraud.”  Billionaire Richard Chandler, the biggest single investor
in Sino-Forest, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment. Richard Barton, a Hong Kong-based external spokesman
for Chandler, declined to comment. Chandler said Aug. 4 he
increased his stake to 18 percent.  Sino-Forest has denied Muddy Waters’ allegations and
established an independent committee of directors to respond to
the accusations. The company said Aug. 16 the probe would take
until the end of the year, later than the two to three months it
estimated on June 14.  The OSC sanctions follow a warning from the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission in June about buying stakes in companies
that gain listings on its exchanges through so-called reverse
takeovers.  For more of this story, click here.  For a report by Matt Miller about the resignation on
Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack,” click here.  For an interview of Carson Block, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 