-- 
EU Bank Group Seeks to Scale Back Basel Capital-Surcharge Plans

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-08-30T16:26:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/european-banking-group-seeks-to-scale-back-basel-capital-surcharge-plans.html
Global regulators should scale back
plans to impose capital surcharges of as much as 2.5 percentage
points on banks that would cause global financial system turmoil
if they failed, because the requirements may damage economic
recovery, a group representing European lenders said.  Proposals made in July by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  should be redrafted to allow banks to use so-called
contingent capital to meet the obligations, the  European Banking
Federation  said in a letter seen by Bloomberg News. They should
also be changed so lenders that can’t meet the requirements
don’t immediately face restrictions on their ability to pay
dividends and bonuses, the EBF said.  Without changes, the overall amount of capital required of
systemically important banks will be “far beyond manageable
limits,” the EBF said in the letter, dated Aug. 26 and
submitted to the Basel committee. “The framework may actually
weaken financial stability unless capital surcharges are kept
low while the remaining problems are carefully studied and
solved.”  Regulators are seeking to mitigate the risk of a repeat of
the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. which
resulted in the interbank lending market freezing and lenders
receiving government bailouts. The Basel committee, which brings
together regulators from countries including the U.S., U.K. and
 China , last month published plans to force such systemically
important banks to hold capital above internationally approved
minimum levels. The committee gave lenders until Aug. 29 to
comment on the plans.  Common Equity  As many as 28 banks would face surcharges from 1 to 2.5
percentage points of capital, if the plans were applied today,
the Basel committee said. The rules are to be phased in, with
full implementation by Jan. 1, 2019. Banks would have to meet
the extra reserves using common equity, a definition of capital
made up mainly of a lenders ordinary shares and retained
earnings.  Contingent capital consists of bonds issued by a bank that
can either be written down or converted into equity should a
specific trigger event occur. The Basel committee last month
ruled out allowing such securities to count toward the
surcharge, pending further study, because of uncertainty over
how well they absorb losses.  Some of the EBF’s concerns have been echoed by the  British
Bankers’ Association  in its submission to the Basel committee.  The economic cost of requiring the buffer to be met solely
with common equity “would be significant,” the BBA said in a
separate letter obtained by Bloomberg. “It is vital that
contingent capital is retained as an option,” it said.  Lender Size  The Basel group’s method for calculating which banks should
face surcharges is too focused on a lenders’ size, the EBF,
which represents national banking associations in the 27-nation
EU, said.  “Smaller banks and groups of banks whose failure may well
pose a threat to financial market stability are not taken into
account,” it said.  Regulators should also publish the names of the lenders
that must hold additional reserves, the EBF said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 