-- 
Euro Declines on Signs of Faltering European Recovery; Yen, Franc Gain

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-08-31T07:36:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/euro-maintains-declines-on-signs-europe-s-recovery-is-slowing-yen-rises.html
The Swiss franc and the yen
strengthened against the euro and the dollar as concern the
global economic recovery is faltering maintained demand for
assets perceived as the safest.  The euro weakened versus most of its 16 major peers as
economists forecast unemployment in the 17-nation euro-region
remained unchanged at 9.9 percent last month, a level it hasn’t
fallen below since 2009. The yen headed for a third monthly gain
versus the dollar before a report forecast to show the U.S.
employers added fewer jobs this month. New Zealand’s dollar
headed for its biggest monthly decline in a year versus the yen
as the country’s business confidence worsened.  “Investors that think the world is falling apart and are
worried about capital preservation still view the yen and the
franc as safe havens,” said Elsa Lignos, a currency strategist
in  London  at RBC Capital Markets in London. “We like the yen --
it just seems a little less overstretched than the Swissie.”  The franc gained 0.5 percent to 1.1783 per euro at 8:26
a.m. in London, snapping three days of declines.  Switzerland ’s
currency advanced 0.4 percent to 81.68 centimes per dollar.
The yen strengthened 0.3 percent to 110.51 to the euro, and
gained 0.2 percent to 76.63 per dollar.  The euro was little changed at $1.4423 from $1.4441
yesterday, giving it a 0.2 percent advance this month.  Slowdown Concern  Concern the global economy is slowing was reinforced by
minutes of the  Federal Reserve ’s Aug. 9 meeting released
yesterday, showing policy makers favored “more substantial”
measures to boost the  U.S. economy  than the current pledge to
hold rates at a record low for the next two years.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
Aug. 29 the bank is reviewing its assessment of inflation risks
as economic growth in the region slows. The comments prompted
bets the central bank will cease raising its benchmark  interest
rate , following two increases this year to 1.5 percent.  The euro area’s unemployment rate in July held at 9.9
percent for a fifth month, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg before the report today.
Initial estimates for the region’s inflation rate this month
remained at 2.5 percent from July, a separate survey indicates
before the data also today.  A Credit Suisse Group AG index showed traders are betting
the ECB will cut its benchmark rate by 15 basis points, or 0.15
percentage point, in the next 12 months. That compares with a
25-basis-point increase projected on Aug. 1.  RBC Capital Markets  expects the euro to weaken to $1.33
over the next 12 months, Lignos said.  U.S. Jobs  Demand for the yen and Swiss franc was bolstered before a
report today forecast to show the U.S. added fewer jobs this
month, adding to signs the world’s biggest economy is slowing.  Companies in the U.S. added 100,000 positions in August,
compared with 114,000 in July, a Bloomberg survey shows before
data from ADP Employer Services.  “Macroeconomic indicators are faring badly worldwide,”
said Keiji Matsumoto, a currency strategist in Tokyo at SMBC
Nikko Securities Inc., a unit of  Japan ’s second-biggest listed
bank. “The Swiss franc and yen will continue to benefit from
such a situation” as havens, he said.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and newly
elected Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  discussed their
commitment to addressing global economic challenges and support
for strong, sustainable and balanced global growth, Geithner’s
office said in an e-mailed statement. The two didn’t discuss
currencies, Noda told reporters in  Tokyo  today.  ‘Rapidly Deteriorating’  “When the U.S. economy is rapidly deteriorating, people
will expect additional monetary easing, which leads to the
dollar’s depreciation,” said Toshiya Yamauchi, a senior
currency analyst in Tokyo at Ueda Harlow Ltd., which provides
foreign-exchange margin-trading services. “If the Fed adds to
monetary easing, it will boost the yen.”  The yen has gained 6.3 percent in the past three months
against a basket of its nine major peers, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency indexes. The franc, the second-
best performer, has advanced 4.2 percent.  New Zealand’s dollar headed for its biggest monthly loss
versus the yen in a year after a survey by ANZ National Bank
Ltd. showed business confidence declined in August.  A net 34.4 percent of companies surveyed in  New Zealand 
expect the economy will improve over the next 12 months, down
from 47.6 percent in July, according to the ANZ survey released
today. The net figure subtracts the number of pessimists from
the number of optimists.  New Zealand’s dollar traded at 65.44 yen from 65.46
yesterday and has lost 3.1 percent this month. It was at 85.37
U.S. cents from 85.31 cents, set for a 2.9 percent slide since
the end of July.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  