-- 
European Banks Need Bigger Writedowns on Greek Bonds, Standards Board Says

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-08-30T12:13:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/european-banks-need-bigger-greek-bond-writedowns-iasb-says-2-.html
Some European banks haven’t
sufficiently written down the value of Greek  government bonds 
and other “distressed sovereign debt” they own, the
organization that sets accounting rules in the region said.  Banks and other financial institutions are valuing the bond
holdings in a way that, in some cases, reflects internal models
instead of market prices, the  International Accounting Standards
Board  said in a  letter  published on its website today.  “It is hard to imagine that there are buyers willing to
buy these bonds at the prices indicated,” the IASB said in the
letter, dated Aug. 4 and sent to the  European Securities and
Markets Authority . “This is a matter of great concern to us.”  Governments and banks in the 27-nation European Union are
negotiating the details of a second international rescue for
 Greece . On July 21, EU leaders agreed bondholders should
contribute about 50 billion euros ($72 billion) to the package.
The IASB didn’t name the banks which have incorrectly applied
the rules in valuing their bond holdings.  “It is an area that quite clearly needs to be addressed,
because historically there has been a perceived lack of
consistency” in how the assets are valued, said Bob Penn, a
financial regulation partner at law firm Allen & Overy LLP in
 London .  International accounting rules prioritize “the use of
quoted prices in active markets over the use of valuation models
developed using internal assumptions,” Hans Hoogervorst, the
IASB’s chairman, said in the letter. These rules were being
applied in a “visibly inconsistent way,” he said.  Relevant Data  “Although the level of trading activity in Greek
government bonds has decreased, transactions are still taking
place,” meaning market prices can be assessed, Hoogervorst
said. “A company cannot ignore relevant market data.”  The  Financial Times  yesterday reported  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA and
CNP Assurances were among the institutions that had write downs
of Greek government debt considered too small by the IASB.  “BNP Paribas has provisioned its exposure to Greece in
full agreement with its auditors and relevant authorities”
following the July 21 European Union aid plan for the country,
according to a statement read by BNP Paribas spokeswoman Carine Lauru by phone.  21 Percent Loss  BNP Paribas,  France ’s largest bank, wrote down its Greek
government-debt holdings by 534 million euros on Aug. 2, the
same day it reported a 1.1 percent increase in second-quarter
profit. The EU aid plan requires investors to take a 21 percent
loss on holdings that mature by 2020.  CNP Assurances (CNP)  made a provision in line with the July 21 EU
plan and approved by its auditors, a spokeswoman said.  ESMA attaches “great importance to these issues,”
Victoria Powell, a spokeswoman for the authority, said in an e-
mailed statement. The authority is investigating “whether
differences exist” between banks in the treatment of sovereign
debt, she said.  “ESMA maintains a close and regular dialogue with the IASB
and the general findings will be shared with them,” Powell
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  