-- 
European Economic Confidence Falls Most Since December 2008 on Contagion

-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 
2011-08-30T16:28:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/european-economic-confidence-falls.html
European confidence in the economic
outlook plunged the most since December 2008 this month as a
persistent debt crisis roiled markets and clouded growth
prospects across the 17-nation euro region.  An index of executive and consumer sentiment in the single-
currency region fell to 98.3 from a revised 103 in July, the
European Commission in Brussels said today. That’s the lowest
since May 2010. Economists had forecast a decline to 100.2,
according to the median of 29 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey. In the U.S., consumer sentiment dropped to the lowest
level in more than two years, a separate report showed.  The euro area’s economic prospects are deteriorating as
national governments cut spending in a bid to narrow deficits
and tackle the debt crisis. Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  signaled yesterday that the EU may reduce
its 2011 growth forecast from 1.6 percent on concerns that
financial turbulence could spill into the broader economy.  “The risk of recession in the euro area has clearly
increased as demand from  Asia  is flagging and governments’
efforts to cut fiscal deficits are curbing domestic
consumption,” said Daniel Hartmann, an economist at Zug,
Switzerland-based Bantleon Bank AG and the most accurate
European forecaster in a Bloomberg News ranking. “I expect the
indicator to decline further in the coming months.”  U.S. Confidence Falls  The euro extended its decline against the dollar after the
data were released. It traded at $1.4432 as of 5:21 p.m. in
 London , down 0.5 percent on the day.  A measure of confidence among U.S. consumers plunged to
44.5 in August from a revised 59.2 reading in July, according to
the Conference Board in  New York . It was the biggest point drop
since October 2008.  In  Europe , a gauge of sentiment among manufacturers dropped
to minus 2.9 from 0.9 in the previous month, today’s report
showed. An indicator of services confidence fell to 3.7 from
7.9, while a measure of  consumer confidence  declined to minus
16.5 from minus 11.2.  European leaders have struggled to contain a debt crisis
that originated in  Greece  and has forced Ireland and  Portugal  to
seek bailouts as well. The  European Central Bank  began buying
Spanish and Italian  government bonds  on Aug. 8 to stop the debt
crisis from spreading to the euro-region’s third- and fourth-
biggest economies. The purchases brought the countries’ 10-year
bond yields down to about 5 percent from euro-era records, even
as Europe’s leaders disagreed over how to contain the turmoil.  ‘Modest Pace’  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said yesterday that the
Frankfurt-based central bank is reviewing its assessment of
inflation risks on slower growth in the euro area. The region’s
growth slowed to 0.2 percent in the second quarter, its worst
showing since emerging from recession in 2009.  Cooling growth may prompt the ECB to refrain from
increasing borrowing costs further after it raised its benchmark
rate twice this year. The bank will hold its next rate meeting
on Sept. 8.  “Looking ahead, we continue to see the euro-area economy
growing at a modest pace in a context of overall relatively
sound economic fundamentals for the euro area as a whole,”
Trichet said. “At the same time, not least because of the
recently re-emerged tensions in financial markets, uncertainty
remains particularly high.”  Order Books  Although confidence in industry remained above the long-
term average, it declined in August “on the back of a drop in
managers’ appraisal of the level of order books and production
expectations,” according to today’s EU report. These indicators
slumped to minus 9.1 from minus 4.7 and to 5.6 from 9.8,
respectively.  Manufacturing executives were also more pessimistic about
their export order books, with the confidence gauge dipping to
minus 9.4 from minus 4.4, the commission said.  ThyssenKrupp AG,  Germany ’s biggest steelmaker, on Aug. 12
posted fiscal third-quarter earnings that missed analyst
estimates. Steelmakers are battling rising raw-material costs
even as consumption of the alloy deteriorates. ThyssenKrupp said
global demand slowed after a “strong” prior quarter, and
European consumption dropped “sharply.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  