-- 
European Stocks Advance for Second Day; Rio, RBS, Ipsen Climb

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-08-30T15:57:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/european-stock-index-futures-gain-on-growth-outlook-ipsen-ubi-may-move.html
European stocks rose for a second
day as a rally in mining companies and U.K. banks outweighed a
bigger-than-forecast decline in U.S. consumer confidence.  Rio Tinto  Group pushed a gauge of basic-resources producers
to the biggest increase in almost three weeks.  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  climbed more than 6 percent.
 Ipsen SA (IPN) , the French maker of a Botox rival, and  Bunzl Plc (BNZL) , the
world’s biggest distributor of disposable tableware and food
packaging, each surged 7.9 percent as earnings gained.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index rose 1 percent to 230.64 at the
4:30 p.m. close in  London , the highest in almost two weeks. The
gauge has still tumbled 13 percent this month, the biggest drop
since October 2008, as European and U.S. economic reports
trailed forecasts, adding to concern that the economic recovery
is at risk. The decline has left the measure trading at about
9.6 times estimated earnings, near the cheapest since March
2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Given the sharp drop in equities in August, I think even
a moderate recession is now priced in and should not scare
investors,” said Mikio Kumada, a global strategist at LGT
Capital Management in  Singapore . “Even very sluggish growth
will now suffice for equities to find a bottom and even rally
for a while, though it will take time for the markets to reclaim
old highs.”  U.K. Leads Advance  Today’s gains in the Stoxx 600 were led by U.K. equities
that missed out on yesterday’s rally because of a holiday. The
Euro Stoxx 50 Index of the biggest companies in the euro area,
which excludes British shares, slipped less than 0.1 percent,
while the U.K.’s  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  rallied 2.7 percent.  Equities in Europe pared their gains as a report showed
confidence among U.S. consumers plunged in August to the lowest
in more than two years. The Conference Board’s index slumped to
44.5, the weakest since April 2009, from a revised 59.2 reading
in July. Economists had predicted the gauge would fall to 52,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  The  Federal Reserve  is releasing minutes from its most
recent policy meeting after European markets close today.
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Aug. 26 in  Jackson Hole ,
Wyoming, that the economy isn’t deteriorating enough to warrant
any immediate stimulus and the central bank still has tools to
stimulate growth.  “In the short-term, the markets can still continue the
relief rally,” said  Manfred Hofer , senior investment analyst at
LGT Capital Management AG in Pfaeffikon, Switzerland. “Going
forward, however, old topics such as the European debt crisis or
fears of recession will move into focus again.”  Greek Aid Deal  European governments will seal an agreement on collateral
for Greece’s second aid package by mid-September, Luxembourg
Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said late yesterday in
Brussels. Euro-area governments will need to transfer additional
sovereign functions to the European Union if they want to
establish an economic government, he told German state
broadcaster ZDF in an interview.  National benchmark indexes advanced in 13 of the 18 western
European markets. France’s CAC 40 Index rose 0.2 percent while
 Germany ’s DAX Index slipped 0.5 percent. The Swiss Market Index
was little changed.  A gauge of basic-resources companies climbed 4 percent as
Rio Tinto, the world’s second-largest mining company, rallied
4.3 percent to 3,673.5 pence.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the biggest
mining company, increased 4.3 percent to 2,042.5 pence while
 Xstrata Plc (XTA)  added 4.7 percent to 1,025.5 pence.  Lonmin, Anglo American  Lonmin Plc (LMI) , the world’s third-biggest platinum producer,
gained 8.5 percent to 1,275 pence.  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , part
owner of the world’s biggest platinum and diamond producers,
climbed 6.3 percent to 2,483 pence and  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO) , the
copper producer controlled by Chile’s Luksic family, gained 6.1
percent to 1,282 pence.  Copper advanced to a three-week high in  New York  as
optimism for U.S. economic growth supported demand for
industrial metals.  RBS, Britain’s biggest government-controlled bank, jumped 8
percent to 23.64 pence and Barclays surged 6.7 percent to 165.4
pence.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , the nation’s largest mortgage
lender, rose 7.8 percent to 32.03 pence.  Jason Napier and David Lock, analysts at Deutsche Bank AG,
upgraded RBS to “buy” from “hold”, writing in a report that
last month’s drop was overdone and they “expect strong
management will continue to deliver value and earnings and
capital formation will surprise positively.” They also named
Barclays as their top pick.  Ipsen, Bunzl Gain  Ipsen rallied 7.9 percent to 23.89 euros, the biggest gain
since January, after reporting first-half net income that rose
22 percent to 91.7 million euros. The average analyst estimate
was 78.8 million euros. The company also said it’s targeting
recurring adjusting operating income, excluding currency
movements, of between 190 million and 200 million euros in 2011.  Bunzl gained 7.9 percent to 779 pence after the company
said first-half pretax profit increased 12 percent to 112.1
million pounds ($184 million) on higher revenue. Bunzl also said
that it agreed to buy Majestic Products BV, a Netherlands-based
personal-protection equipment business.  Distribuidora Internacional de Alimentacion SA, the world’s
third-largest discounter, gained 6.2 percent to 2.81 euros. The
company reported first-half net income of 6.8 million euros,
compared with a net loss of 15.9 million euros a year earlier.  Public Power Corp SA (PPC) , Greece’s biggest electricity
producer, plunged 8.8 percent to 6.21 euros after first-half
profit fell to 128.8 million euros from 347.9 million euros a
year ago.  Baloise Holding AG (BALN) , Switzerland’s third-largest insurer,
dropped 2 percent to 69.6 Swiss francs. Net income in the first
six months of the year slipped 2.4 percent to 203.3 million
francs ($249 million) as the Swiss currency strengthened against
the euro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  