-- 
Ex-Beazer Homes Finance Chief James O’Leary Settles SEC Lawsuit Over Bonus

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   L a u r e n c e   V i e l e   D a v i d s o n
-- 
2011-08-30T21:01:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/ex-beazer-homes-finance-chief-james-o-leary-settles-sec-lawsuit-over-bonus.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission settled a suit with  Beazer Homes USA Inc. (BZH) ’s former
finance chief over stock-sale bonuses he got while the
homebuilder’s accounting statements were out of compliance with
federal law.  James O’Leary, the ex-CFO, must reimburse the company more
than $1.4 million that he received after Beazer filed fraudulent
financial results for fiscal 2006, the SEC said today in a
 statement . The agency accused the Atlanta-based homebuilder of
falsifying reports to overstate income.  “The CFO got incentive compensation and profits at a time
when the company was putting out inaccurate numbers, and
pursuant to the settlement he returns the incentive
compensation,” Bill Hicks, an SEC lawyer in Atlanta, said in a
phone interview.  The SEC filed a single-count  complaint  against O’Leary in
Atlanta federal court alleging failure to reimburse, according
to the statement. O’Leary isn’t accused of misconduct and didn’t
admit or deny liability, the SEC said. A federal judge must
approve the settlement.  Larry Iason, a lawyer for O’Leary, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment.  In March, former Beazer Chief Executive Officer  Ian McCarthy  agreed to return $6.5 million in compensation.  Michael Rand, Beazer’s chief accounting officer at the time
of the targeted reports, was  indicted  last year on charges of
 securities fraud  and obstruction of justice.  The case is SEC v. O’Leary, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Georgia (Atlanta).  -- With assistance from Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware .
Editors: Andrew Dunn, Mary Romano  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Laurence Viele Davidson in Atlanta at 
 lviele@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  