-- 
Ex-Disney Film Chief Cook Said to Seek $625 Million in Financing

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 
2011-08-30T19:35:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/ex-disney-film-chief-said-to-seek-625m-financing.html
Dick Cook, former chairman of  Walt
Disney Studios , is seeking to raise $625 million in equity
financing to make and distribute family oriented films,
according to a banker briefed on the effort.  Cook and his advisers are soliciting investors, including
private-equity firms,  hedge funds  and wealthy individuals, said
the banker, who wouldn’t discuss the matter publicly.  Cook is seeking to return to film-making after resigning
from Burbank-based  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  in 2009. Chief Executive
Officer Robert Iger engineered Disney’s purchase of Marvel
Entertainment for $4 billion that year and agreed to distribute
movies for Steven Spielberg’s DreamWorks Studios SKG.  A former baseball player at the University of Southern
California, Cook is also executive producer of a film based on
the life of  Jackie Robinson , the first black player in  Major
League Baseball , Legendary Pictures, which is producing the
film, said in a June 1 statement.  Other terms of the offering, including the percentage of
the company that will be sold, weren’t available.  Cook’s lawyer Peter Dekom, reached at the Cook Co. offices,
declined to comment. In the past year, some investors have
become more receptive to film finance.  Legendary, the co-producer of films including “Inception”
and the “Hangover” movies, will raise $220.5 million for a
Hong Kong venture through Paul Y. Engineering Group Ltd.,
according to an announcement this month.  Film Loans  Summit Entertainment LLC, producer of the “Twilight”
vampire films, raised $750 million in debt in February. New
owners of Miramax, producer of Oscar-winning pictures including
“Shakespeare in Love,” borrowed $325 million in December to
complete the acquisition from Disney.  In his 38 years at Disney, Cook oversaw creation of films
including the ‘Pirates of the Caribbean’’ franchise, a series
that has generated $3.72 billion in worldwide ticket sales,
according to  Boxofficemojo.com .  Cook started at the company as an operator of the steam
train and monorail rides at the Disneyland park in Anaheim,
 California , according to a statement issued at the time of his
resignation. He was replaced by Richard Ross, previously
president of Disney Channel Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Ronald Grover in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  