-- 
Exxon Forms Rosneft Alliance for Arctic Reserves, Gulf of Mexico

-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n   a n d   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 
2011-08-30T15:53:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/exxon-wins-russian-arctic-access-in-deal-opening-gulf-of-mexico-to-rosneft.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  formed an alliance
with OAO Rosneft, Russia’s largest oil producer, to drill from
the Texas plains and  Gulf of Mexico  to the Arctic Ocean.  Exxon and Rosneft plan to spend an initial $3.2 billion
exploring Russia’s Arctic offshore and the Black Sea, the
companies said today in a statement. In turn, Rosneft may become
the first major Russian oil producer to develop U.S. deposits,
gaining experience in deep-water and shale oil.  Exxon replaces  BP Plc (BP/)  as Rosneft’s partner at three blocks
in the arctic Kara Sea after the U.K. explorer’s billionaire
partners in the TNK-BP venture blocked that agreement this year.
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin , who presided over the Exxon deal
today in Sochi on  Russia ’s Black Sea coast, said it may generate
as much as $500 billion of investments.  “Access to new resources is the life blood of  oil
companies ,” said  Fadel Gheit , an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co.
in  New York . “Russia is one of the largest resources that’s
still available. It’s like Exxon is now dating the girlfriend BP
had a few months ago.”  The world’s biggest oil companies are competing for new oil
and gas reserves as countries such as Saudi Arabia shut out
foreign operators and the easiest-to-reach hydrocarbons are
exhausted. The Kara Sea fields are about the size of the U.K.
North Sea and may hold as much as 100 billion barrels of oil
equivalent, according to BP.  London-based BP spokesman Mark Salt declined to comment on
the deal.  Reliable Partner  Russia’s government will support the Exxon-Rosneft alliance
“in every way,” Putin said. The Texas-based company will be
a “reliable, strategic and good partner.”  The agreement allows Rosneft a chance to participate in
Exxon’s unconventional fields in the U.S., where oil and gas are
extracted by grinding rocks with sand, water and chemicals. The
two companies said they’ll study similar fields in western
Siberia.  Exxon Chief Executive Officer  Rex Tillerson  attended the
signing between Neil Duffin, the company’s president for
development, and Rosneft CEO Eduard Khudainatov.  “I take it as a strong statement of Russian intentions to
create competitive conditions to attract investments,”
Tillerson told reporters.  ‘Scary’ $500 Billion  Putin said the investment need to develop all the fields
involved may reach as much as $500 billion once all the
associated infrastructure is built. “It’s scary to utter such
huge figures,” he said.  Exxon and Rosneft on Jan. 27 signed a preliminary accord
for a $1 billion exploration project in the  Black Sea ’s
deepwater Tuapse Trough.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc, Europe’s largest oil company, may
have let the opportunity slide, after Putin said in May that it
would be a “comfortable partner” to replace BP in the Kara
Sea. Shell, which works with state-controlled OAO Gazprom in
Siberia and Sakhalin Island, agreed to further expand
cooperation with the gas producer in June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Khrennikov in Sochi, Russia at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  