-- 
Exxon, Americas Petrogas to Explore Argentina Shale Reserves

-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 
2011-08-30T20:54:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/exxon-and-americas-petrogas-to-exlore-argentina-s-shale-reserves.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the largest U.S.
oil company, will spend as much as $76.3 million to explore and
develop shale oil and natural gas in Argentina with  Americas
Petrogas Inc. (BOE)   Exxon will gain a 45 percent stake in Americas Petrogas’s
Los Toldos blocks, which cover 163,500 acres in the Neuquen
Basin, Calgary-based Americas Petrogas said in a statement
today.  Americas Petrogas plans to drill a well in the fourth
quarter at its blocks, targeting the unconventional Vaca Muerta
formation, which may hold as much as 240 trillion cubic feet of
recoverable gas, according to the U.S. Energy Information
Administration.  “We believe the next major shale development outside of
 North America  will be in the Neuquen Basin,” Guimar Vaca Coca,
managing director for Americas Petrogas in  Argentina , said in
the statement.  Vaca Muerta has characteristics similar to reservoirs such
as the Eagle Ford and Haynesville formations in North America,
the company said. YPF SA, Argentina’s largest crude producer,
announced in May it discovered the nation’s biggest oil find in
two decades at Vaca Muerta.  “From a geological resource point of view, I think
Argentina’s future is positive,” Jorge Pinon, a research fellow
at  Florida International University  in Miami, said in a
telephone interview.  Regulatory uncertainty and a lack of continuity in fiscal
terms and conditions are larger concerns for foreign oil
companies working in Argentina, said Pinon.  Looking For Niches  “I think some of the major  oil companies  are looking for
niche areas in which they can position themselves to take
advantage of future opportunities,” he said.  Exxon will have more than 310,000 net acres in the Neuquen
Basin following its deal with Americas Petrogas, Patrick McGinn,
a spokesman for the Irving, Texas-based company, said in an
interview.  Americas Petrogas climbed 40 cents, or 24 percent, to
C$2.10 on the  TSX Venture Exchange , Canada’s junior stock
exchange, at 3:59 p.m. Exxon fell 21 cents to $73.91 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading at 4:15 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 