-- 
Exxon Gains Access to Arctic Frontier with Rosneft Deal

-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n   a n d   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 
2011-08-30T21:12:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/exxon-rosneft-joint-projects-in-arctic-may-reach-500-billion-putin-says.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  has replaced BP
Plc in a partnership with  Russia ’s OAO Rosneft to drill in the
Arctic, one of the last untapped oil frontiers in the world.  In exchange for access to potentially billions of barrels
of crude in the Arctic Ocean, Exxon will grant Rosneft stakes in
Texas shale fields and deep-water projects in the  Gulf of
Mexico , the companies said today in a statement.  Exxon and Rosneft plan to spend an initial $3.2 billion
exploring Russia’s Arctic offshore and the Black Sea. In turn,
Rosneft may become the first major Russian oil producer to
develop U.S. deposits, gaining experience in deep-water and
shale oil.  Russia is seeking access to more international technology
to help it exploit complex crude deposits in increasingly harsh
environments as traditional resources, such as western Siberian
fields, are declining. The Exxon agreement will help Rosneft
meet Putin’s challenge that Russian producers maintain the
country’s world-leading output of 10 million barrels a day for
at least a decade.  Russia’s government will support the Exxon-Rosneft alliance
“in every way,” said Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, who
presided over the deal today in Sochi on Russia’s Black Sea
coast.  ‘Life Blood’  Exxon beat out its biggest international oil rivals to win
a piece of the Russian Arctic. Exxon replaces  BP Plc (BP/)  as
Rosneft’s partner in the Arctic Kara Sea after the U.K.
explorer’s billionaire partners in the  TNK-BP Holding (TNBP)  venture
blocked the agreement this year.  “Access to new resources is the life blood of oil
companies,” said  Fadel Gheit , an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co.
in  New York . “Russia is one of the largest resources that’s
still available. It’s like Exxon is now dating the girlfriend BP
had a few months ago.”  Royal Dutch Shell Plc and Chevron Corp. also have said they
wanted to explore partnerships with Rosneft in the Arctic.  The world’s biggest oil companies are competing for new
reserves as crude-rich countries shut out foreign operators and
the easiest-to-reach hydrocarbons are exhausted.  Mark Salt, spokesman for London-based BP, declined to
comment on the agreement.  100 Billion Barrels  The three blocks in the Kara Sea fields that are part of
this agreement are about the size of the U.K.  North Sea  and may
hold as much as 100 billion barrels of oil equivalent, according
to BP.  Exxon Chief Executive Officer  Rex Tillerson  attended the
signing with Neil Duffin, the company’s president for
development, and Rosneft CEO Eduard Khudainatov. Duffin oversaw
Exxon’s deepwater Angolan projects, such as Kizomba, which have
been big some of the company’s biggest producers in the past
decade.  “I take it as a strong statement of Russian intentions to
create competitive conditions to attract investments,”
Tillerson told reporters.  The agreement allows Rosneft a chance to participate in
Exxon’s unconventional fields in the U.S., where oil and gas are
extracted by cracking open rocks with sand, water and chemicals.
The two companies said they’ll study the potential for similar
fields in western Siberia.  Deep Pockets  As one of the largest  oil companies  in the world, Exxon
brings experience and deep pockets to the alliance, said Brian Youngberg, an analyst at  Edward Jones  in  St. Louis  who has a
“hold” on Exxon shares and owns none.  “To partner up with a AAA-rated energy company makes sense
for Rosneft as they seek to diversify outside of Russia,”
Youngberg said. Credit agencies rate Exxon AAA, their highest
grade.  Putin said the investment needed to develop all the fields
involved and associated infrastructure may reach as much as $500
billion.  “It’s scary to utter such huge figures,” he said. Exxon,
based in Irving, Texas, will be a “reliable, strategic and good
partner,” he said.  Exxon and Rosneft on Jan. 27 signed a preliminary accord
for a $1 billion exploration project in the  Black Sea ’s
deepwater Tuapse Trough.  Shell, Chevron  Shell,  Europe ’s largest oil company, was described by Putin
in May as a potential “comfortable partner” to replace BP in
the Kara Sea. Shell, which works with state-controlled OAO
Gazprom in Siberia and Sakhalin Island, agreed to further expand
cooperation with the gas producer in June.  Chevron pulled out as Rosneft’s partner in the Val
Shatskogo exploration project in Russia’s Black Sea this year.
Chevron is “looking to partner with Rosneft on other
opportunities in the Arctic or elsewhere in Russia,” said  Kurt
Glaubitz , a company spokesman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  