-- 
Fed’s Evans Favors ‘Aggressive’ Policy Easing After Weak First-Half Growth

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-08-30T13:36:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/fed-s-evans-favors-aggressive-policy-easing-after-weak-first-half-growth.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago
President  Charles Evans  urged easier monetary policy and said he
favors setting unemployment and inflation markers that would
trigger a pullback from near-zero  interest rates .  “I would favor more accommodation,” Evans, a voting
member of the Fed’s policy-making committee, said today in a
CNBC television interview. “I am in favor of some of the most
aggressive policy actions of anyone on the committee.”  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week in a speech at a
Fed conference at  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , that the central bank
still has stimulus tools, while not providing details or
committing to deploying them. Policy makers will meet for two
days next month to “allow a fuller discussion” of the economy
and the Fed’s possible response, he said.  “I am somewhat nervous about the economic recovery and
where we stand at this point,” Evans said. “The first half of
this year got revised down and we had very weak growth. We had
been hoping to achieve something much more like a launch or
escape velocity for growth.”  The policy-making  Federal Open Market Committee  will be
able to review additional economic reports before its Sept.
20-21 meeting. The  U.S. economy  expanded at a 1 percent annual
rate from April through June, down from a 1.3 percent prior
estimate, revised Commerce Department figures showed last week
in  Washington .  ‘Do More’  Evans said he “would have wanted to do more” easing
earlier this month, when the Fed decided to commit to keeping
its target rate near zero through mid-2013. The commitment is
conditioned on “low rates of resource utilization and a subdued
outlook for inflation,” which Evans said may be too vague.  “One thing I think we really ought to do is clarify what
our policy intentions are going forward,” he said. “It is
conditional. I think we need to explain what we mean by that
conditionality.”  An improvement would be to detail “the economic markers”
that would require a policy change. “We could allow rates to
remain low until the  unemployment rate  fell to a certain level,
maybe 7.5 percent, maybe 7 percent” or “if inflation became
tremendously unacceptable” which could mean medium-term
inflation at more than 3 percent.  “If we could sort of make everyone understand that this is
going to be in place for a longer period of time, we would knock
out some of that restraint that comes about when people talk
about premature tightening,” Evans said.  New Easing  Any new easing could face more opposition from some Fed
presidents. Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher,  Charles Plosser 
of Philadelphia and Narayana Kocherlakota of  Minneapolis  voted
against the August statement that pledged to keep rates near
zero at least until mid-2013. The last time three voters
dissented was on Nov. 17, 1992, under Bernanke’s predecessor,
 Alan Greenspan .  “Employment growth has been very weak,” the Chicago Fed
leader said. “The economy has been growing, but it is a small
positive. We are really going sideways more than anything else.  ‘‘The labor market -- with 9.1 percent unemployment -- we
haven’t experienced rates like that which haven’t been
associated with recession. This is not a good situation.”  Payrolls may have climbed by 75,000 workers in August after
a 117,000 increase in July, and the unemployment rate probably
held at 9.1 percent, according to the median forecasts of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before Labor Department
data Sept. 2.  “Inflationary pressures are not nearly as strong as a lot
of people think,” Evans said.  While the most recent consumer spending report was “pretty
good,” most other economic reports, including manufacturing
surveys, have shown continued weakness into the third quarter,
he said.  “I really don’t need to see a lot more data to understand
that we haven’t achieved escape velocity,” he said. “We need
to do better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  