-- 
Fiat Sales Chief Formica Leaves as European Deliveries Stall

-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 
2011-08-30T09:53:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/fiat-says-head-of-sales-andrea-formica-resigning-sistino-to-replace-him.html
Fiat SpA (F) ’s head of sales,  Andrea Formica , resigned after less than a year at the Italian carmaker
after the company lost deliveries to competitors and remained
unprofitable in Europe, its biggest market.  Formica, whose resignation takes effect Sept. 1, will be
replaced by Lorenzo Sistino, head of the carmaker’s Fiat
Professional light commercial-vehicle unit, a spokesman at the
Turin-based manufacturer said, speaking on condition that he not
be named in line with company policy.  “This is not good news,” said Wolfram Mrowetz, chairman
of Alisei SIM in Milan, which oversees 200 million euros ($289
million), including Fiat shares. “It means Formica didn’t meet
the expected results, as Fiat sales in  Europe  didn’t show any
recovery.”  Fiat’s  market share  in Europe shrank to 7.2 percent in the
first half of 2011 from 8.1 percent a year earlier as deliveries
fell 13 percent to 530,228 vehicles. Fiat, which also owns U.S.
carmaker Chrysler Group LLC, aims to recover market share in the
second half with new models, including Fiat Freemont, a European
version of Chrysler’s Dodge Journey sport-utility vehicle, and
the Lancia Ypsilon subcompact.  Formica, who ran  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s sales in Europe
before joining Fiat in September 2010, was previously chairman
of  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Italian unit. He was in overall charge of
Fiat’s namesake brand as well as worldwide sales of the Alfa
Romeo and Lancia divisions and of Chrysler’s models in Europe.  Executive Council  The executive was replaced as Fiat-brand chief by Olivier
Francois in a reorganization in July as the Italian company
absorbed  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based Chrysler. Formica also
wasn’t included in the group executive council created to
oversee the two carmakers’ operations.  Fiat fell as much as 1.9 percent to 4.15 euros and was down
1.7 percent as of 11:50 a.m. in Milan trading. The stock has
dropped 38 percent this year.  The Italian company said today that it will introduce a
convertible version of the Chrysler 200 model in Europe as the
Lancia Flavia Cabrio.  Fiat doesn’t provide a regional breakdown of earnings.
Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  has said the company
has been posting losses in the region while management was
focused on buying Chrysler.  “In Europe, the outlook for small cars is tough,
especially in  Italy , where market demand is likely to remain
under pressure by economic worries and fiscal austerity,”  Brian
Johnson , a Chicago-based equity analyst at Barclays Capital
Inc., said in a note to clients Aug. 26 as he downgraded Fiat to
“equal weight” from “overweight” with a target price of 5
euros.  Fiat increased its Chrysler stake to 53.5 percent in July.
The Italian carmaker expects to hold 58.5 percent of the third-
biggest U.S. automaker by the end of 2011, after getting 5
percent in return for developing a fuel-efficient car for
Chrysler.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  