-- 
Former NBA Player Javaris Crittenton Is Arrested in Murder Investigation

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-08-30T23:15:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/former-nba-player-javaris-crittenton-is-arrested-in-murder-investigation.html
Javaris Crittenton, a former player
for the  National Basketball Association ’s Washington Wizards,
was arrested in Southern California in connection with a murder
in Atlanta.  Crittenton was detained at John Wayne Airport in Santa Ana
last night when he checked in for a flight to Atlanta, Laura Eimiller, a spokeswoman for the  Federal Bureau of Investigation 
in  Los Angeles , said in a telephone interview.  He was booked into the Los Angeles Police Department jail
and held on charges of being a fugitive from justice, Eimiller
said. Crittenton, 23, will appear in Los Angeles Criminal Court
tomorrow at 8:30 a.m., she said.  The Atlanta Police Department obtained a warrant for the
arrest of Crittenton following the Aug. 19 fatal shooting of 22-
year-old Jullian Jones outside her house in the Georgia city,
 the FBI said on its website .  The mother of four died from multiple gunshot wounds when
walking with two men, the  Associated Press  reported, citing
Atlanta Police spokesman Carlos Campo. The motive appears to be
retaliation for a robbery in April in which Crittenton was a
victim, Campo told AP on Aug. 26.  “He offered to turn himself in,” Crittenton’s lawyer
Brian Steel told AP. “He’s not guilty. We look forward to
getting it to the courts.”  Steel was unavailable to comment this morning, according to
an assistant at his office. Kim Jones, a spokeswoman for the
Atlanta police, didn’t immediately return a call seeking
comment.  Crittenton was suspended by the NBA in February 2010 for
the remainder of the season along with Wizards teammate  Gilbert Arenas  after pleading guilty to gun charges involving a locker-
room showdown over a gambling dispute.  Crittenton is on the roster of the NBA developmental
league’s Dakota Wizards.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 