-- 
French Embrace of NATO’s Power Is Huge Step for World: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-08-30T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/french-embrace-of-nato-s-power-is-a-huge-step-forward-for-the-world-view.html
The government of  France  has
concluded that its national security can best be served through
active leadership of the  North Atlantic Treaty Organization . We
agree.  With the U.S. displaying increasing ambivalence toward the
alliance, the evolving French position couldn’t come at a better
time. France had kept its distance from NATO since President
Charles De Gaulle pulled out of the alliance’s unified military
command in 1966. De Gaulle argued that NATO was dominated by the
U.S. and the U.K., and that France needed an independent defense
policy to maintain its status as a great power. Subsequent
French presidents from both the Gaullist and Socialist parties
sought to build a  European Union  defense capability as a
competitor to NATO, free of U.S. influence.  President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s decision in 2009 to rejoin
NATO’s military structure was the first indication that policy
was changing. It now appears that Sarkozy has concluded that
NATO is central to the future of France and  Europe .  Sarkozy, along with Britain’s prime minister,  David Cameron , deserves enormous credit for leading NATO’s successful
support for the rebels who overthrew the regime of Libyan
strongman  Muammar Qaddafi . Acting through NATO gave France
access to U.S. capabilities such as air-to-air refueling,
intelligence collection and long-range drones that the French
and other European allies lack. NATO’s partnerships in the
 Middle East  made it easier for nations such as Qatar and the
United Arab Emirates to join the anti-Qaddafi coalition.  Ironically, it was President Barack Obama’s decision to
cede leadership of the  Libya  operation to the French and British
that showed the government in Paris that it could use NATO to
achieve its goals, much as the U.S. has done in the past.  The new French view of NATO could have enormous
consequences for the West’s ability to act in concert to defend
common interests. In an era of declining military budgets,
Europe can no longer afford to waste money building an EU
defense structure that duplicates NATO’s capabilities. Greater
French involvement will have the added benefit of strengthening
the trans-Atlantic partnership.  Libya demonstrated that the most important U.S. national
security relationship is with Europe. It’s worth remembering
that when the  United Nations  authorized military action to
prevent Qaddafi from massacring his people, the world turned to
NATO, not the rising powers in  Asia  or elsewhere. From a U.S.
perspective, the strengthening of Europe’s commitment to NATO is
good news indeed.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 