-- 
Gasoline Gains on Concern Tropical Storm Katia May Cut Output

-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 
2011-08-30T19:48:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/gasoline-gains-on-concern-tropical-storm-katia-may-cut-output.html
Gasoline rose to a four-week high
amid speculation that Tropical Storm Katia may disrupt refinery
operations in the U.S. and after  Sunoco Inc. (SUN)  shut a key
gasoline-making unit at its Philadelphia refinery.  Prices advanced as Katia, 630 miles west-southwest of the
southernmost Cape Verde islands and moving west-northwest at 18
miles per hour, according to an advisory from the National
Hurricane Center. Sunoco was said to shut a fluid catalytic
cracker at the Philadelphia plant yesterday, according to a
person with knowledge of the situation.  “There’s another storm coming,” said  Phil Flynn , vice
president of research at PFGBest in Chicago. “Longer term,
markets are supportive of economic recovery.”  Gasoline for September delivery rose 8.94 cents, or 3.1
percent, to settle at $2.9958 a gallon on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . It’s the highest settlement since Aug. 2.
The more actively traded October futures gained 7.2 cents, or
2.6 percent, to $2.8415. September gasoline and heating oil
futures expire at the close of floor trading tomorrow.  ConocoPhillips (COP)  reported its 238,000-barrel-a-day Bayway
refinery in Linden, New Jersey, was flaring gases as it
attempted to start, according to a state regulator.  Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP’s Carteret, New Jersey,
 oil terminal , with 7.83 million barrels of capacity, has resumed
limited operations, Joe Hollier, a company spokesman, said in an
e-mail. There is still water in portions of the terminal and no
time frame for resuming full operations, he said.  Force Majeure  CME Group Inc. (CME) , parent company of the Nymex, declared a
force majeure for heating oil shipments into  New York  for August
because of Hurricane Irene.  “The delivery facility that is scheduled to process those
deliveries was impacted this past weekend by weather associated
with Hurricane Irene,” the company said in a statement
yesterday. The order gives an extension of five days from the
originally scheduled date to make the deliveries, it said.  Heating oil for September delivery rose 5.9 cents, or 2
percent, to $3.0692 a gallon, the highest settlement since Aug.
2. The more actively traded October contract gained 5.94 cents
to $3.0767.  Tropical Storm Katia’s winds increased to 45 miles (72
kilometers) per hour from 40 mph earlier today, according to a
hurricane center advisory issued at about 11 a.m. Miami time.  There is also the possibility a weak tropical system may
develop in the  Gulf of Mexico  this weekend, according to  Matt
Rogers , president of Commodity Weather Group LLC in New York.  Rogers said the computer models have predicted the storm
would form, which he said would be only a 5 percent threat to
oil and gas interests there.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, rose 0.1
cent to $3.612 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA data. It’s
the eighth consecutive price increase for the fuel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in New York at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 