-- 
Gazprom Quarterly Net Jumps to Record $16 Billion on Prices

-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 
2011-08-30T16:39:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/gazprom-boosts-first-quarter-profit-44-exceeds-estimates-1-.html
OAO Gazprom’s first-quarter profit
jumped 44 percent to a record, more than expected, as  gas prices 
and foreign sales drove the Russian export monopoly’s earnings
to a record.  Net income climbed to 468 billion rubles ($16 billion),
from 325 billion rubles a year earlier, the Moscow-based
natural-gas exporter said in a financial report posted on its
 website  today. That beat the average estimate of 406 billion
rubles from seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Gazprom benefited from recovering demand and higher prices
in  Europe , its biggest market by revenue, in the first three
months. Rising capital expenditures left the company with
negative free cash flow, according to the statement.  Enthusiasm over record earnings may be damped by a Gazprom
spending spree, said  Alexei Kokin , senior oil and gas analyst at
UralSib Financial Corp. “They’ve already spent half of what we
expect for the whole year,” he said.  Gazprom declined 0.3 percent to 177.18 rubles in Moscow.
The stock has gained 11 percent in the past year.  Capital expenditures jumped 82 percent to 397 billion
rubles, giving the company a negative  cash flow  of 7 billion
rubles, according to Gazprom’s cash flow statement. Revenue
increased 38 percent to 1.32 trillion rubles.  Gazprom Investments  Gazprom may boost investments 52 percent to 1.24 trillion
rubles this year, compared with an initial plan, as it builds
pipelines and infrastructure and after a retrenchment from
nuclear power following  Japan ’s Fukushima disaster helped boost
gas demand. In November, Gazprom’s board had planned to cut
spending this year from 2010 in anticipation of a slack market.  Sales volumes to Europe and other countries outside the
former  Soviet Union  advanced 12 percent to 46.6 billion cubic
meters in the first quarter, the Russian gas export monopoly
said. Shipments to Europe and  Turkey  may reach 158 billion cubic
meters this year and export revenue will probably rise to a
record, Chief Executive Officer  Alexei Miller  said in June.  The average gross gas price on those sales increased 17
percent to $343.10 per 1,000 cubic meters from the first quarter
of last year, according to Gazprom’s statement. The company has
said the price may average $400 this year, compared with $306
last year.  The world’s largest gas producer links its gas prices to
oil and products with a lag of as long as nine months. Brent
averaged $105 a barrel in the first quarter, compared with $77 a
barrel in the year-earlier period.  Gazprom reports financial results to international
standards months later than peers OAO Rosneft and OAO Novatek.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  