-- 
German Stocks Decline as Utilities Lead Drop; Lufthansa Climbs

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-08-30T16:03:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/german-stocks-rise-for-a-second-day-thyssenkrupp-deutsche-bank-advance.html
German stocks fell, with the  DAX
Index (DAX)  extending its biggest monthly drop in almost nine years,
as European confidence in the economic outlook plunged the most
since December 2008 and confidence among U.S. consumers slid.  EON AG and  RWE AG (RWE) , Germany’s biggest utilities, led
declining shares. Henkel AG’s preferred shares and  Bayer AG (BAYN)  both
retreated 1.3 percent.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  rose 1.9 percent
after saying it expects to increase profit this year.  The DAX fell 0.5 percent to 5,643.92 at the 5:30 p.m. close
in Frankfurt. The measure has tumbled 22 percent in August, its
biggest monthly retreat since September 2002, as European and
U.S. economic reports that trailed forecasts added to concern
that the global economic recovery is at risk. The broader HDAX
Index decreased 0.3 percent today.  “We’re still not out of the woods,” said Heinz-Gerd Sonnenschein, an equity strategist at Deutsche Postbank AG in
Bonn. “I still see a bit more nervous times in the weeks and
months to come. We still have a chance to go back to a 6,000
level at the year end, but we could test new lows of 5,300 to
5,150 in the DAX.”  An index of executive and consumer sentiment in the euro
area fell to 98.3 in August from a revised 103 in July, the
European Commission said today. That’s the lowest since May
2010. Economists had forecast a reading of 100.2, according to
the median of 29 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  U.S. Confidence  In the U.S., the Conference Board’s consumer-confidence
index slumped to 44.5, its weakest since April 2009, from a
revised 59.2 reading in July. It was the biggest point drop
since October 2008. Economists had predicted the gauge would
fall to 52 in August, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey.  The  Federal Reserve  will release minutes from its most
recent policy meeting after European markets close today.
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Aug. 26 in  Jackson Hole ,
 Wyoming , that the economy isn’t deteriorating enough to warrant
any immediate stimulus and that the central bank still has tools
to stimulate growth.  European governments will seal an agreement on collateral
for  Greece ’s second aid package by mid-September, Luxembourg
Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said late yesterday in
Brussels. Euro-area governments will need to transfer additional
sovereign functions to the European Union if they want to
establish an economic government, he told German state
broadcaster ZDF in an interview.  EON, RWE Fall  EON and RWE lost 2.5 percent to 14.72 euros and 2.8 percent
to 25.23 euros, respectively.  Germany ’s planned boost in
renewable energy generation is “a major challenge” to the
power network as the country shuts its nuclear reactors,
according to the national grid operator.  “We’re welcoming the increase in renewables but their
volatility is a major challenge,” Matthias Kurth, the head of
the Bundesnetzagentur, the federal grid operator, said today at
a renewable energy conference in Berlin. The fluctuating “fever
curve” in renewable generation “is here to stay,” and burdens
the grid, he said.  Preferred shares of Henkel, the maker of industrial
adhesives, Dial soap and Soft Scrub cleaners, lost 1.3 percent
to 40.09 euros, while Bayer, the Leverkusen-based drug and
chemical maker, fell 1.3 percent to 43.89 euros.  Lufthansa,  Europe ’s second-largest airline, gained 1.9
percent to 11.16 euros, the best performance in the DAX today.
Chief Executive Officer Christoph Franz said the company aims to
increase profit this year as fuel hedging and income from
maintenance and catering units leave it better placed than
competitors.  “We are relatively stable in an unstable industry,” Franz
said last night at a briefing in  Frankfurt .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  