-- 
Australia’s Gillard Sees ‘Tough Days’ Ahead for Factory Workers

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y   a n d   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-08-30T04:01:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/gillard-sees-tough-days-ahead-for-factory-workers.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  joined Reserve Bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  in warning of
tough days ahead for the nation’s factory workers, who are
losing jobs in an economy relying more on mining for growth.  Gillard today met workers from  BlueScope Steel Ltd. (BSL) , which
Aug. 22 said it will shed about 1,000 jobs and shut a furnace
because of a second-half loss due to high raw-material costs and
a stronger Australian dollar. She said a A$30 million ($32
million) fund paid for by the federal and state governments, and
BlueScope, would investigate setting up new industries in the
Illawarra region in New South Wales.  Australia, the only developed economy to avoid a
contraction during the global recession of 2009, is undergoing
what Stevens last week called a “structural adjustment” as the
biggest mining boom in a century drives the nation’s currency to
a record. The rising local dollar is hurting exporters, and the
 unemployment rate  last month rose for the first time since
October.  “We are seeing a mining industry going ahead by leaps and
bounds but we are also seeing pressures on manufacturing,
pressure on industries like tourism,” Gillard told reporters in
Port Kembla. “These are tough days for a number of working
people who are contemplating their futures.”  Factory Decline  The Treasury forecasts manufacturing output will rise by
about 5 percent until 2020, compared with a 77 percent expansion
for resources and 50 percent growth in construction, Treasurer
 Wayne Swan  wrote Aug. 28. Since 2005, which the central bank
marks as the start of the current mining boom, employment in
manufacturing has slid by about 6 percent, according to Gary
Banks, chairman of Australia’s Productivity Commission.  “One million people work in the manufacturing industry and
only 200,000 Australians work in the  mining industry ,” Paul
Howes, the Australian Workers Union national secretary,  told
reporters today in Wollongong, south of Sydney. “Time and time
again we are seeing manufacturing jobs being sacrificed at the
alter of the resources sector.”  Demand for Australian commodities including iron ore and
coal is driving a surge in mining investment with projects worth
A$430 billion in the pipeline, government figures show. That
helped boost the local currency to as high as $1.1081 on July
27, the strongest since it was freely floated in 1983.  Weak Productivity  Stevens has said the stronger currency, a decline in
consumption and higher savings may be the nation’s new economic
reality, and the only way for industries to cope is to reverse a
decline in productivity.  “Some parts of the economy will shrink while others
grow,” Stevens told a parliamentary committee in Melbourne Aug.
26. “We do not have an instrument that can prevent these shifts
in the structure of the economy from occurring. I am sorry but I
think that is just the reality.”  Australia ’s unemployment rate unexpectedly jumped to an
eight-month high in July of 5.1 percent as hiring stalled, a
government report showed Aug. 11. The 41,400 net job gain from
January through July was the weakest first seven months of the
year since 2003.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company, said
after reporting a record second-half profit last week that it
would offer jobs to fired BlueScope employees.  Melbourne-based BHP will look to employ as many as 50
people at its Illawarra coal operations, the company said in an
Aug. 23  statement . BHP also said it will take applications from
anyone interested in one of the 1,350 vacancies at its
Queensland coal or Western Australia  iron-ore  operations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gemma Daley at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net  