-- 
Grandma Bunks With Jobless Kids as Multigenerational Homes Surge

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   F r a n k   B a s s
-- 
2011-08-30T04:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/grandma-bunks-with-jobless-kids-as-multigenerational-homes-surge.html
When advertising executive John
Gallegos wanted to promote a new package of Spanish-language
channels for client  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , he put together a spot
featuring the fictional Gutierrez clan gathered around
television sets in their home.  A smiling grandfather hands out popcorn in the ad.
Gutierrez women weep along with a soap opera. A younger family
member looks up words in a Spanish-English dictionary. And
everyone shouts when a little girl tries to change the channel
during a soccer match.  “It’s a snapshot of all the different extensions of what a
Hispanic family could be,” Gallegos, chief executive of Grupo
Gallegos in  Huntington Beach , California, said in an interview.  The U.S. is experiencing a surge in the  multigenerational 
households that were once a common feature of American life, and
Hispanic and Asian families are driving the trend, according to
U.S. Census Bureau data released this month. The number of such
households, defined as those with three or more generations
living under one roof, grew to almost 5.1 million in 2010, a 30
percent increase from  3.9 million  in 2000, the data show.  They hit 2.9 million in 1950 and didn’t top that again
until four decades later, according to the Washington-based  Pew
Research Center . At the 1980 low, multiple-generation homes
represented just 2.9 percent of all U.S. households, down from
7.8 percent in 1900.  Transforming Suburbs  Although the term multigenerational invokes images of
grandma churning butter on a pioneer farm or turn-of-the-century
immigrants crammed into tenements, today’s extended families are
more likely to live in suburbs. Among large cities, the one with
the highest percentage of multigenerational households, at 16
percent, is Norwalk,  California , a collection of largely single-
family homes 15 miles (25 kilometers) south of Los Angeles.  “Many conservatives are locked into this 1950s paradigm of
the nuclear family,” said Joel Kotkin, author of “The Next
Hundred Million: America in 2050,” a book about demographics.
“Boomers are aging in place. Immigrants move in with their
cousins. The suburbs are changing.”  Job losses and the difficulty of purchasing a home make
young people more likely to live with their parents, according
to D’Vera Cohn, a senior writer with Pew who has studied the
trend. Longer life spans and growth in the Hispanic and Asian
populations keep older folks in the house.  The nation’s two fastest-growing ethnic groups are 50
percent more likely to live in multigenerational families than
are whites, according to Pew research.  “Among immigrants, it’s the way their lives were lived in
their home countries,” Cohn said in an interview.  Marketing Challenge  Corporate America is figuring out ways to create products
for, and market to, these multi-income, multifaceted families,
Gallegos said.  Home builder  KB Home (KBH)  is seeing increased demand for what it
calls double master suites, two large bedrooms with attached
bathrooms to accommodate parents living with their adult
children, according to Cara Kane, a spokeswoman for the company,
which is based in Los Angeles. All 10 of the largest communities
in the U.S. ranked by their percentage of multigenerational
households were within an hour’s drive of the nation’s second-
largest city. All had populations over 100,000.  At the National Council of La Raza’s  National Latino Family
Expo  held in  Washington , D.C., last month, businesses tried to
reach as broad an audience as possible, according to Georgina
Salguero, director of sponsorship for the event.  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ) ’s booth featured everything from its namesake baby oil
to Aveeno anti-aging creams.  ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG)  demonstrated
modern takes on classic ethnic recipes, Salguero said.  Asian Impact  Asians, as well as Hispanics, are increasingly gathering
under one roof. The state with the largest percentage of
multigenerational households was  Hawaii  at 8.8 percent, twice
the national average of 4.4 percent. The 50th state owes its
large percentage to high real estate prices and the 47 percent
of its population that is of Asian or Pacific Island descent,
according to Sarah Yuan, a sociologist at the University of
Hawaii at Manoa.  Her research on the state’s Filipino residents found
multigenerational households are most common among the poor, who
live together so they can pool their resources, and the rich,
who have the space.  “A lot of times it’s for economic reasons,” Yuan said in
an interview. “Other times it’s just cultural preferences.”  Epicenter of Change  Few areas of the country have seen larger economic and
cultural changes than  Southern California .  Norwalk , the  Los
Angeles  suburb with the highest percentage of multigenerational
households in the U.S., was mostly dairy farms in the 1930s. It
was the hometown of former First Lady Patricia Nixon and the
filming location for the 1946 noir classic “The Postman Always
Rings Twice,” about a bored, small-town wife who plots her
husband’s murder.  The city saw an explosion in residents after World War II
as returning soldiers swelled the population to 35,000 in 1950
from 5,770 a decade earlier, according to a municipal  history .  By the time Norwalk incorporated in 1957, the city’s
developable land was largely built out, according to Kurt
Anderson, director of community development. Population
increases and additions put on existing structures have strained
the municipality, which now counts 105,000 residents.  “Parking is a huge issue,” said Marcel Rodarte, a Norwalk
native and city council member. The city requires more onsite
parking when permits are requested for room additions, he said.  Subprime Fallout  Norwalk’s median home price leapt to $495,000 in April 2007
from $151,000 in January 2000, according to San Diego-based real
estate research firm DataQuick. By July of this year the median
price was back down to $255,000, a reflection of the fact that
Hispanics were frequent targets of subprime lenders who are no
longer in business, according to  Felipe Korzenny , a professor of
marketing at  Florida State University  in Tallahassee.  “It’s a working-class community and largely Hispanic,”
said Veronica Garcia, who directs social services for the city.
“In this economy people have to live together.”  On a recent Monday afternoon, the Norwalk Senior Center was
bustling with folks playing bingo and taking weaving classes.
Francisca Bernard, a 75-year-old retired waitress, said she has
lived in the same three-bedroom Norwalk house since 1968. It now
accommodates four generations of her family, including three
grandchildren and her father, who is 100 years old.  “The house is big and we like to be together,” she said.
Finances also play a role, Bernard said. While her daughter does
most of the grocery shopping, major purchases, such as a new car,
are hashed out over the dinner table.  Her father, Jose Maria Bernard, was shooting pool in
another part of the center. A native of  Mexico , he said he has
12 children and rotates among their houses. He said he never
considered living in a nursing home because he’s still healthy
and, in any case, family values would preclude it.  “My children wouldn’t let me go anyplace else,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  