-- 
Griffin Coal Terminates Coal Supply Agreement With Perdaman

-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 
2011-08-30T10:58:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/griffin-coal-terminates-coal-supply-agreement-with-perdaman.html
Griffin Coal Mining Co., a unit of
 India ’s  Lanco Infratech Ltd. (LANCI) , said it terminated a coal supply
agreement with Perdaman Chemicals & Fertilizers Ltd. and offered
to restore the accord if certain terms are met.  Griffin Coal can give Perth-based Perdaman until Oct. 15 to
achieve “financial close,” Lanco said in a statement today,
without elaborating or providing details of the terms. The offer
for additional time must be accepted by Sept. 6, it said.  Lanco, a power producer controlled by billionaire L. Madhusudhan Rao, acquired Griffin in February to secure coal
supplies for 15,000 megawatts of plants planned in the country
by March 2015. Perth-based Perdaman has a 25-year supply
agreement with Griffin and has sued the coal-miner for breach of
contract.  Calls to Perdaman’s office in Perth after hours were
unanswered. Suresh Kumar, Lanco’s chief financial officer,
didn’t answer two calls made to his mobile phone.  Lanco surged 5.9 percent to 17.05 rupees, the most since
Aug. 3, at the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai. The stock has declined
73 percent this year.  Lanco won dismissal of an attempted injunction by Perdaman
to block the use of coal assets as collateral for an $800
million loan. Perdaman said Griffin’s assets wouldn’t be
available to fulfill any judgment in the breach-of-contract.  The case was rejected because it would “prevent or
substantially inhibit Griffin from raising additional funds
necessary to develop and expand its mine,”  Supreme Court  of
Western Australia Justice Andrew Beech wrote in the Aug. 11
decision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  