-- 
Gross Says Look Elsewhere as Developed Economics Face Recession

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-08-30T17:16:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/gross-advises-investing-in-brazil-mexico-as-u-s-europe-face-recession.html
The global economic crisis is
leading to a possible “developed economy” recession in the U.S.
and  Europe , which may be hard to alleviate, according to Pacific
Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross .  In this environment, the world’s biggest manager of bond
funds favors investing in  Australia ,  Mexico ,  Brazil  and  Canada ,
along with non-dollar currencies that have strong ties to the
Asian continent, Gross, co-chief investment officer and founder
of Pimco, reiterated. Although global equities are attractive
because dividend yields in many cases are higher than bonds,
they’re vulnerable to faltering growth, Gross wrote in a monthly
investment commentary published on Pimco’s website today.  Strife between rich and poor in the U.S. is sending
Treasury yields lower, Gross wrote. The 10-year yield at 2.25
percent is “discounting a heap of trouble, and neither investor
nor borrower may emerge from this brouhaha unscathed,” wrote
Gross, who along with co-chief investment officer Mohamed El- Erian coined the term “new normal” more than two years ago to
describe a possible long period of below average growth and high
unemployment for the  U.S. economy .  “We prefer the ‘cleaner’ dirty shirt countries of Canada,
Australia, Mexico and Brazil, where higher yields and more
pristine balance sheets prevail,” Gross wrote.  Rally in Treasuries  The $245 billion Total Return Fund managed by Gross has
lost 1 percent in the past month, underperforming 90 percent of
its peers, according to Bloomberg data. The fund’s 3.2 percent
return this year is worse than about two-thirds of competitors,
the data show.  Treasuries have returned almost 7 percent since February,
when Gross eliminated the Total Return Fund’s holding of U.S
government securities. He boosted Treasuries to 10 percent of
assets in July from 8 percent in June, the Newport Beach,
California-based firm said on its website earlier this month.  Gross said in a Financial Times interview last week that
was published today that it was a “mistake to bet so heavily
against the price of  U.S. government debt .”  U.S. government bonds have returned 2.6 percent in August,
the most since December 2008, as investors bet on slower growth
and sought a refuge from global financial market turmoil,
according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.  European Crisis  The crisis in Europe has the most “immediacy” because one
or more members such as Ireland, Portugal or  Greece  may be
forced to leave the euro, causing liquidity concerns that would
destabilize other regional bond markets unless the  European
Central Bank  stepped in to buy more securities, Gross wrote.  European confidence in the economic outlook in August
plunged the most since December 2008 as a persistent debt crisis
roiled markets and clouded growth prospects across the 17-nation
euro region. An index of executive and consumer sentiment in the
single-currency region fell to 98.3 from a revised 103 in July,
the European Commission in Brussels said today. That’s the
lowest since May 2010.  The ECB began buying Spanish and Italian  government bonds 
on Aug. 8 to stop the debt crisis from spreading to the euro-
region’s third- and fourth-biggest economies.  ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet said yesterday that the
Frankfurt-based central bank is reviewing its assessment of
inflation risks on slower growth in the euro area. The region’s
growth slowed to 0.2 percent in the second quarter, its worst
showing since emerging from recession in 2009.  The U.S. economy expanded less than previously estimated in
the second quarter, underscoring the weakness that has prompted
the  Federal Reserve  to mark down its growth forecasts.  Gross domestic product climbed at a 1 percent annual rate
from April through June, down from a 1.3 percent prior estimate,
revised Commerce Department figures showed Aug. 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  