-- 
Libyan Rebel Leader Jalil Gives Qaddafi Forces Until Sept. 3 to Surrender

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n
-- 
2011-08-30T22:54:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/libyan-rebel-leader-jalil-gives-qaddafi-loyalists-until-sept-3-to-submit.html
Libyan rebel leaders expressed
growing confidence that  Muammar Qaddafi ’s days on the run are
numbered.  Mustafa Abdel Jalil, chairman of the rebel National
Transitional Council, gave Qaddafi’s forces until Sept. 3 to
surrender or face attack and said members of the former leader’s
government would receive fair trials.  “We have a good idea where he is,” Ali Tarhouni, a rebel
council minister, was quoted by the  Associated Press  as saying
yesterday. “We don’t have any doubt that we will catch him.”  UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon said yesterday that rebel
forces have control over most of Tripoli since the Qaddafi
family fled, the German press agency  Deutsche Presse-Agentur 
reported.  “We are now looking for a quick conclusion of the conflict
and sufferings of the Libyan people,” Ban told the UN Security
Council, which met yesterday. The council approved the U.K’s
request to release $1.55 billion of frozen Libyan banknotes held
there.  Rebel leaders also demanded that  Algeria  return Qaddafi’s
wife, Safia, daughter Aisha and two sons, Hannibal and Mohammed,
who crossed the border into Algeria on Aug. 29.  Algeria closed part of the border with Libya after their
arrival, according to the privately owned newspaper El Watan.
The Algerian Foreign Ministry said yesterday that Aisha had
given birth in Algeria.  Holdout Cities  The coastal city of Sirte and the southern town of Sabha
are the key remaining bastions of Qaddafi loyalists, Abdel
Jalil, the rebel council chairman, said yesterday in a televised
press conference broadcast from Benghazi.  “The entry to Sirte and southern towns of Libya should be
as peaceful as possible to avoid more bloodshed and
destruction,” he said. “If there are no indications for
conducting this peacefully, we can act decisively to end this
situation in a military manner, but we do not wish to do so.”  Sirte, Qaddafi’s hometown, is the last major coastal city
still resisting rebel forces, which are backed by the  North
Atlantic Treaty Organization . The opposition is seeking to
capture Qaddafi and his closest aides, including son Saif al- Islam, to consolidate its gains and announce a new interim
government after entering Tripoli, the capital, last week.  “We want the wise people of these cities to cooperate,”
Abdel Jalil said. “We have been in contact with the elders and
the wise men of these cities.”  NATO Attacks  NATO, which has supported the rebels by bombing pro-Qaddafi
targets, will continue operations in the North African country
as long as necessary, spokeswoman Oana Lungescu  told reporters 
in Brussels.  “It looks as if we are nearly there, but we’re not there
yet,” she said.  One of Qaddafi’s sons, Khamis, a military commander, was
killed in a NATO air strike southeast of Tripoli,  Sky News 
reported, citing a man claiming to have been Khamis Qaddafi’s
bodyguard. A rebel official, speaking on the condition he not be
named, said the deaths of Khamis and Qaddafi’s top security
adviser, Abdullah al-Senussi, hadn’t been confirmed.  Balance of Strength  “The Qaddafi regime is collapsing and rapidly losing
control on multiple fronts,” Colonel Roland Lavoie, spokesman
for NATO’s Operation Unified Protector, told reporters. “The
Tripoli region is essentially freed.”  Columns of rebel units in armed  pickup trucks , some towing
artillery and wheeled anti-aircraft guns, left Tripoli Aug. 29
and headed east to Misrata in preparation for an advance on
Sirte.  Pro-Qaddafi forces committed possible  war crimes  in the
battle for Misrata,  Physicians for Human Rights  said in a report
released yesterday.  Those crimes include murder, torture and rape, the Boston-
based group said, citing interviews with 54 residents of Misrata
and its surrounding villages that it said were conducted in
June, shortly after rebel forces captured the western coastal
city.  “The rule of law must be the bedrock of a new and free
 Libya ,” the group said. The transitional council “must ensure
that perpetrators are brought to justice and held accountable.”  Jalil said the transitional council will try members of
Qaddafi’s government in the courts.  “The safety and security of everyone is our
responsibility,” he said. “We will provide fair trials for
each of them, but we will not deal lightly with anyone who poses
a threat to the revolution.”  Rebel officials have said that resuming oil production,
halted by the conflict, will be a top priority.  Oil prices  rose
to their highest level in almost four weeks in New York. The
price of crude oil for October delivery rose by $1.63, or 1.9
percent, to $88.90 a barrel, the highest settlement since Aug. 3
on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Stephen in Misrata, Libya at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  