-- 
Icahn Makes ‘Back Stop’ Offer for Clorox in Attempt to Spur Company’s Sale

-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d   a n d   Z a c h a r y   M i d e r
-- 
2011-08-30T22:01:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/icahn-says-he-d-buy-clorox-for-78-a-share.html
Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn ,
campaigning to oust  Clorox Co. (CLX)  directors and put the company up
for sale, said he’d back up that process with his third takeover
offer in two months for the maker of bleach and Glad trash bags.  If Icahn succeeds in replacing Clorox’s board and the
company still doesn’t find a buyer, he said he will pay $78 a
share, or $10.3 billion in cash and notes, to “back stop” the
sale process, according to a statement today.  The move seeks to put pressure on Clorox, which last month
rejected Icahn’s two earlier proposals, including one at a
higher price of $80 a share, and said the investor was unlikely
to be able to complete them. The Oakland, California-based
company said it would continue to implement its strategy and
return excess cash to shareholders.  “The Clorox board of directors remains open to any
credible proposal, and believes that Mr. Icahn’s latest proposal
is highly conditional, substantially undervalues the company and
is not credible,” the company said in a statement.  A credible proposal would include a fully underwritten debt
commitment and “clearly identified and adequate equity
capital,” Clorox said.  Icahn, Clorox’s largest investor with a 9.5 percent stake,
said in an interview that he lowered his bid for Clorox because
he’s willing to buy the company at a guaranteed price without
conducting due diligence. The “back-stop” offer carries more
risk, Icahn said.  Shares Climb  Clorox rose $1.89, or 2.8 percent, to $70.52 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading after earlier
gaining as much as 5.4 percent. The shares have climbed 11
percent this year.  Icahn has suggested companies including  Procter & Gamble
Co. (PG) , Colgate-Palmolive Co. and Kimberly-Clark Corp. as strategic
buyers for Clorox.  Japan ’s  Kao Corp. (4452)  was looking at the company,
the New York Post reported this month, citing an unidentified
person familiar with the situation.  “He doesn’t really want to buy the company,” said  Jack Russo , an analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in  St. Louis . “He wants
to start an auction process.”  Icahn said in the interview that Clorox would reap
“significant synergies” by merging with a competitor.  Kathryn Caulfield, a company spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately return a phone message and e-mail seeking comment
today. Clorox said Aug. 19 that it hadn’t yet scheduled its 2011
annual meeting, where Icahn is seeking to replace all 11
directors.  Icahn Slate  Besides himself, Icahn’s slate includes other officers at
his firm, as well as A.G. Krongard, a former executive director
of the Central Intelligence Agency and vice chairman of the
Johns Hopkins Health System, and Glenn Zander, a former
executive at Aloha Airgroup Inc. and Trans World Airlines.  Offering to buy a company as a spur to put it in play is a
common Icahn maneuver. Mentor Graphics Corp., WCI Communities
Inc., and Mylan Inc. are among companies that got offers from
Icahn that were never consummated.  Icahn’s three offers involved different prices and
different forms of payment. The first, on July 14, was for
$76.50 a share in cash. The funds would come in the form of
equity investments from Icahn and his affiliates and from $7.8
billion in debt financing arranged by Jefferies Group Inc.  Clorox rejected that offer four days later and instituted a
shareholder rights plan to protect against a takeover.  Second Proposal  The second proposal, on July 20, was for $80 a share in
cash, and Icahn offered to put $5.2 billion of the amount in
escrow to prove he would follow through.  Today’s offer of $78 is in cash and registered senior
unsecured notes, and isn’t conditioned on financing or due
diligence, according to Icahn’s statement.  “The Clorox shareholders should have the right to decide
for themselves whether to accept my bid or a better bid which I
believe will be forthcoming from the sale process,” Icahn said
in today’s statement.  Clorox senior unsecured notes due in October 2017 are rated
BBB+ by  Standard & Poor’s , or three levels above non-investment
grade.  S&P placed Clorox’s BBB+ grade on CreditWatch with
“negative” implications on July 15, citing potential debt
financing of $7.8 billion as part of the Icahn purchase,
according to a note on Aug. 1.  “A meaningfully debt-financed transaction would
significantly weaken Clorox’s credit protection measures well
below current levels,” S&P analysts Susan Ding and Mark
Salierno wrote. The company’s credit grade could be lowered into
the ‘B category,’ which is at least four levels below
investment-grade, according to the note.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  