-- 
Icahn to Sell Lions Gate Holdings for $7 a Share in End to Takeover Fight

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 
2011-08-31T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/icahn-to-sell-most-of-lions-gate-stake-for-7-a-share-ending-takeover-bid.html
Billionaire  Carl Icahn  agreed to
sell his  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF)  shares for $7 each,
roughly his cost, to end a battle for control over the
independent film and television studio.  The parties also agreed to end all litigation, according to
a statement issued yesterday by Icahn and  Lions Gate , the studio
behind the “Saw” movies and “Mad Men” TV show.  The accord ends a standoff between the company and the 75-
year-old investor. Icahn dropped a $7.50-a-share buyout offer in
December, after Lions Gate marshaled enough investors to block
his bid for five board seats. Board member  Mark Rachesky , an ex-
Icahn protege, agreed to buy some of the stock.  “The willingness of Rachesky to step up and other
sophisticated buyers testifies that the company has a lot on
queue on the film side and the TV side,” said Matt Harrigan, a
Denver-based analyst with Wunderlich Securities.  Lions Gate said it purchased 11 million shares from Icahn
for $7 each, while MHR Fund Management, led by Rachesky, bought
an equal number at the same price. Over the next 35 business
days, Lions Gate, run from  Santa Monica ,  California , can
designate parties to buy as many as 22.1 million shares, the
bulk of Icahn’s remaining stake.  The $7 purchase price “was approximately the same as
Icahn’s cost basis for the shares,” Lions Gate said.  Lions Gate fell 35 cents, or 4.7 percent, to $7.17 in
extended trading after the announcement. The stock lost 3 cents
to $7.52 yesterday in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  ‘Hunger Games’  Harrigan, who recommends investors buy Lions Gate shares,
had expected Icahn to bide his time ahead of the company’s March
2012 release of “The Hunger Games,” the first film based on
the best-selling trilogy of teen novels.  “I would have thought this transaction would have been
four to six months from now,” Harrigan said.  Peter Wilkes, a Lions Gate spokesman, declined to comment
beyond the statement. Icahn’s New York office didn’t respond to
a request for comment.  The two sides have agreed not to disparage each other,
according to a regulatory filing.  Icahn sought for two years to gain control of Lions Gate,
leading to a proxy fight and court battles in the U.S. and
 Canada . Lions Gate is based in  Vancouver .  An Icahn tender offer was thwarted last year by an equity-
for-debt swap that increased Rachesky’s stake to almost 29
percent. Rachesky bought $100 million of notes from Kornitzer
Capital Management and then exchanged them for stock. The
British Columbia Supreme Court in November rejected Icahn’s
petition to undo the transaction.  The purchase announced yesterday boosts Rachesky’s holding
to 51.2 million shares, making him the largest investor. Icahn
yesterday made his third bid for Clorox Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Ronald Grover in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  