-- 
Michael Vick’s $100 Million Contract Is ‘Beautiful Thing’ to Creditors

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u   a n d   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-08-31T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/michael-vick-s-100-million-contract-is-beautiful-thing-to-creditors.html
Michael Vick ’s $100 million contract
will provide the Pro Bowl quarterback with enough money to
reimburse his creditors by 2014, Vick’s financial adviser and
bankruptcy trustee said.  “It’s a beautiful thing,” Joseph Luzinski, the trustee
overseeing Vick’s bankruptcy plan, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “It should put sufficient monies in the pot to
substantially clean up all of the claims.”  Luzinski, a court-appointed restructuring attorney with
 Development Specialists Inc.  in Miami, said the bankruptcy
payout plan implemented in 2009 was based on Vick receiving a
large contract in the future.  “That was the hope of the creditors that it would work out
this way,” Luzinski said. “And short of there being some
dramatic change -- there’s no lockout, no injuries -- and no
other issues, it should be a workable format to clean up his
past financial commitments.”  Vick agreed on a six-year contract with the  Philadelphia
Eagles  that places him among the  National Football League ’s
highest-paid players just over two years after he left prison,
where he was serving a sentence for involvement in a dogfighting
ring.  $40 Million Guaranteed  The deal is worth $100 million and guarantees the 31-year-
old Vick about $40 million, Ira Spiegel, Vick’s financial
adviser, said in a telephone interview. The Eagles, who begin
the regular season Sept. 11 at the  St. Louis Rams , didn’t
disclose financial terms in a statement.  “It will be a relief to be done with this and be done with
the bankruptcy plan early,” Spiegel said. “Michael’s plan
going forward is to ensure that when he is done playing he
doesn’t have anything to worry about.”  Under the contract, Vick would make about $16 million a
season. Unsecured creditors stand to receive about $5.2 million
a year from that contract. Vick owed creditors about $20 million
and has paid off a “couple million,” Luzinski said.  “So far, it has been fairly minimal,” Luzinski said.  Under the restructuring plan, unsecured creditors,
including Vick’s agent, Joel Segal, will be paid from a
liquidating trust funded by his future income for up to six
years, according to court documents. Other unsecured creditors
that will share Vick’s future income include the  Atlanta
Falcons , with a $6.5 million claim; Royal Bank of Canada, owed
about $2.6 million; and Wachovia Bank NA, holding a $1.1 million
claim.  Bonus Payments  Vick, who played with the Falcons from 2001 to 2006, found
himself in a court battle with his old team over almost $20
million in bonus payments from a 2004 contract that made him
then the highest-paid player. He settled with the Falcons,
reducing the claims to about $6.5 million. The banks’ claims
relate to financing guarantees Vick made for a variety of
businesses, including a rental-car franchise and a liquor store,
court filings show.  Vick will have a living expense allowance of $300,000 a
year, according to court papers. Those expenses include food and
rent, but not payments to agents and other unexpected expenses,
Spiegel said.  “The philosophy behind that is the guy needs a little
something to live on,” Luzinski said.  The distributions vary between 10 percent and 40 percent of
Vick’s adjusted gross income, escalating as he earns more money.
Creditors will receive 40 percent of yearly adjusted gross
income over $10 million. A provision is included if Vick signs a
new contract in the final year of the six-year payment period
and creditors haven’t received at least 80 percent of what
they’re owed, that will allow them to recoup from the new
contract.  Top-Paid Player  Vick was the NFL’s top-paid player with a 10-year, $130
million contract in Atlanta before his role in the interstate
dogfighting ring landed him in jail for 18 months.  He was described as “cruel and reprehensible” by NFL
Commissioner  Roger Goodell  for participating in a ring in which
dogs that lost fights were drowned, hanged, shot or
electrocuted. In April 2007, he took part in the killing of
eight animals, one of which was dispatched by slamming it into
the ground, his criminal indictment said.  Vick said yesterday he has changed many facets of his life,
and called the contract and the chance to play in the NFL again
a “blessing.”  Appreciative  “I’m appreciative of where I’m at,” Vick said in a
televised press conference in Philadelphia. “Kids should know
that you should never count yourself out, but at the same time,
don’t put yourself in a position where you have to make a
miraculous comeback.”  He signed with the Eagles in August 2009 and last year was
named the NFL’s Comeback Player of the Year after taking over as
the starter and accounting for 30 touchdowns in 12 games. He
finished second to  Tom Brady  of the  New England Patriots  in NFL
Most Valuable Player voting.  Vick said he now has his sights on a Super Bowl title.  “As a competitor, I don’t feel like my career will be
complete without it,” he said.  The Eagles designated Vick as their franchise player before
the lockout, which ended when the league its players reached a
collective-bargaining agreement in July, and had until Sept. 20
to sign him to a multiyear contract.  Vick’s initial contract with the Eagles was worth $1.6
million with an option for the second year at $5.2 million,
FoxSports.com reported at the time.  Asset Groups  Under Vick’s restructuring plan, assets are divided into
two groups, “plan assets” and “trust assets,” to repay
secured and unsecured creditors respectively, according to court
documents. Plan assets consist of homes, real estate, boats,
vehicles, horses and other tangible property that can be sold.
Vick owned nine cars, four boats and owned or held interests in
at least 20 companies, court papers show. The trust assets
include portions of his future income and a home in Suffolk,
 Virginia .  Vick was allowed to keep a home in Hampton, Virginia, a
2007 Infiniti truck, a  pension plan  and personal property such
as clothing and furniture, as part of the plan.  The case is: In re Michael D. Vick, 08-50775,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Eastern District of Virginia ( Newport News ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net ;
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  