-- 
Michael Vick Agrees to Six-Year Contract With NFL’s Philadelphia Eagles

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-08-30T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/michael-vick-agrees-to-six-year-contract-with-nfl-s-philadelphia-eagles.html
Quarterback  Michael Vick  agreed to a
six-year contract with the  Philadelphia Eagles  that places him
among the  National Football League ’s highest-paid players just
over two years after he left prison.  The deal may be worth $100 million and guarantees the 31-
year-old Vick about $40 million, the  Associated Press  reported,
citing an unidentified person familiar with the negotiations.
The Eagles didn’t disclose financial terms in a statement.  Vick was the NFL’s top-paid player with a 10-year, $130
million contract in Atlanta before his role in an interstate
dog-fighting ring landed him in jail for 18 months. He signed
with the Eagles in August 2009 and last year was named the NFL’s
Comeback Player of the Year after taking over as the starter and
accounting for 30 touchdowns in 12 games.  “It’s a product of all the hard work Michael has done to
better himself over the last couple of years, both on and off
the field,” Eagles coach  Andy Reid  said of the new contract on
the team’s website. “There’s a lot of work yet to be done by
him and this team as a whole, and there’s no doubt in my mind
that he’ll continue on that path.”  The Eagles designated Vick as their franchise player before
the NFL lockout and had until Sept. 20 to sign him to a
multiyear contract.  Vick’s initial contract with the Eagles was worth $1.6
million with an option for the second year at $5.2 million,
FoxSports.com reported at the time.  Starting Quarterback  After having a limited role in his first season in
Philadelphia, Vick was named starting quarterback for the Eagles
last September, when the team was 1-1. He led the Eagles to a
10-6 record and first place in the National Football Conference
East Division last season, before a 21-16 loss to the  Green Bay
Packers  in the first round of the postseason. The Packers went
on to win the  Super Bowl .  Vick completed 62.6 percent of his passes for 3,018 yards
and 21 touchdowns, all career highs. He also rushed for 676
yards and nine touchdowns. Vick’s 6.7 yards per rush led the
league among players with at least 100 attempts.  Vick was described as “cruel and reprehensible” by NFL
commissioner  Roger Goodell  for participating in a ring in which
dogs that lost fights were drowned, hanged, shot or electrocuted.
In April 2007, he took part in the killing of eight animals, one
of which was dispatched by slamming it into the ground, his
criminal indictment said.  He signed with the Eagles three months after his release
and returned to the field for the first time since 2006 after
serving a league-imposed suspension.  “He’s become the ultimate leader of this team,” Eagles
tight end Brent Celek told reporters. “He’s taken control of
the offense.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 