-- 
LifeSize Takes on Cisco in Videoconferencing, Sees Sales Rise

-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 
2011-08-30T08:29:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/lifesize-takes-on-cisco-in-videoconferencing-sees-sales-rise.html
LifeSize Communications Inc. , a unit
of computer-mouse maker  Logitech International SA (LOGN) , expects
revenue to jump as it competes with rivals including  Cisco
Systems Inc. (CSCO)  to add clients in the videoconference market, set
to more than double in the next five years.  LifeSize’s sales are forecast to rise two to three times
faster than the market, which is expected to grow 15 percent
this year, Chief Executive Officer Craig Malloy said in a phone
interview. Revenue at the Austin, Texas-based company rose 34
percent to $36.5 million in the fiscal first quarter, making
LifeSize Logitech’s fastest-growing business.  “We’re seeing very, very rapid growth in
videoconferencing,” the CEO said. “We’re going to piggyback on
key trends and accelerate our growth.” LifeSize is targeting $1
billion in revenue in coming years, Malloy said, without giving
a precise timeframe.  Technology companies are using mergers and acquisitions to
grow in videoconferencing. Romanel-sur-Morges, Switzerland-based
Logitech, the world’s biggest maker of mice, was among the first
to make a deal in the industry when it bought LifeSize for $405
million in 2009. Cisco the same year announced it was buying
Tandberg ASA, the world’s second-biggest maker of
videoconferencing equipment, and  Polycom Inc. (PLCM) , the world’s
largest standalone maker of videoconference gear, agreed to buy
Hewlett-Packard Co.’s competing business in June.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s largest software maker, agreed
this year to buy Skype Technologies SA, the world’s most popular
Web-calling service, to strengthen its bid to convince
corporate clients to replace traditional phone and
videoconferencing systems with its software.  ‘Beyond Consumer’  “Logitech wanted to diversify from PC peripherals,”
Malloy said. “We’re a natural extension for them to go beyond
consumer channels and into business ones.”  Global videoconferencing endpoint revenue, which includes
equipment and doesn’t include services, will reach $4.15 billion
in 2016 from $1.66 billion last year, according to research from
 Frost & Sullivan Inc.   “Companies are looking for ways to reduce costs due to the
financial crisis,” Iwona Petruczynik, a Warsaw-based analyst at
 Frost & Sullivan , said in an interview. “People are moving away
from in-person meetings to save money and time, and this is a
great way to do it.”  LifeSize, the third-biggest videoconferencing provider with
about 15,000 customers worldwide, offers high-definition video
conferencing services, mainly targeting medium and large
companies, the CEO said. LifeSize in July bought Mirial, a
specialist in software for video-conferencing on tablets and
mobile phones.  Android, Apple Devices  The Mirial deal allows LifeSize to “offer video
communication to any Android or Apple-based device,” Malloy
said, closing a gap in its product offering. “Mobility services
are one of the key trends in the industry and they will help us
gain market share.” He declined to say whether the company is
looking at other acquisition targets and said LifeSize plans
product innovations “the likes of which the video-communications
industry has never seen.”  LifeSize is also adding cloud-based services such as
virtual infrastructure for companies that don’t have in-house
video expertise or information-technology resources, the CEO
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  