-- 
High-Grade Company Bond Sales to ‘Heat Up’ Next Month, BofA Says

-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 
2011-08-30T15:48:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/high-grade-u-s-company-bond-sales-will-heat-up-in-september-bofa-says.html
U.S. investment-grade company bond
sales are set to “heat up” in September to $80 billion as
offerings this month show strong demand for the securities and
as yields are at about record lows, according to Bank of America
Corp.  Issuance of $42 billion in August was dominated by
industrial issuers graded A and AA, which accounted for 55
percent of offerings, the highest proportion since at least
2009, Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Research strategists
Hans Mikkelsen and Yuriy Shchuchinov wrote in an Aug. 29 note.  “This highlights that investor demand for corporate bonds
remains strong despite record low all-in yields and economic
weakness,” the strategists wrote. “For September we expect a
significant increase in high grade new issuance volumes to $80
billion, as issuers are tempted by current very low corporate
yields and there continues to be strong demand.”  Investors are seeking less risky assets as the  U.S. economy 
shows signs of slowing, the  unemployment rate  holds above 9
percent and  consumer confidence  plunges to the lowest in more
than two years. Average yields on investment-grade debt have
tumbled this year to 3.8 percent as of yesterday. Even if it’s
low, positive economic growth “is very favorable for corporate
bonds,” especially as investors lack higher-yielding
alternatives, creating a “Goldilocks” environment for the
securities, Mikkelsen wrote.  The benchmark U.S. 10-year Treasury note’s yield dipped
below 2 percent earlier this month to a record low.  Low Growth Environment  As the private sector reduces debt, corporate bonds are
“the only asset class that offers both yield and meaningful
amounts of supply,” he wrote. “Under present conditions, a low
growth environment is ‘just right’ and leads to excess demand
for corporate bonds and tighter credit spreads.”  While high-grade issuers tap the market, sales of
speculative-grade debt, rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and lower than BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s , have tumbled
to $1.03 billion this month from $18 billion in July, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the lowest since December
2008, the data show.  Yields on investment-grade corporate bonds have fallen from
as high as 4.29 percent in February, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data. Relative yields on the debt of
227 basis points compare with 166 basis points at the start of
the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  