-- 
India Faster-Than-Forecast Expansion Keeps Pressure on RBI to Raise Rates

-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-08-30T12:58:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/india-s-economy-grows-faster-than-estimated-7-7-adding-pressure-on-rates.html
India ’s economy grew faster than
estimated last quarter, maintaining pressure on the central bank
to extend its record interest-rate increases even as the global
recovery weakens.  Gross domestic product rose 7.7 percent in the three months
ended June 30 from a year earlier, the Central Statistical
Office said in  New Delhi  today. That compares with a 7.8 percent
climb in the previous three months. The median of 26 predictions
in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 7.6 percent gain.  India’s consumption has “remained strong” because of
higher salaries and inflation may remain “stubborn” in the
near term, the  Reserve Bank of India  said last week. By
contrast, growth has cooled in Asian nations from  Taiwan  to
 South Korea  and  Malaysia  as a faltering U.S. recovery and
 Europe ’s debt crisis curbs demand for the region’s exports.  “This data reinforces our view that the RBI will remain in
a tightening mode,” said Biswa Swarup Misra, Mumbai-based chief
economist at the state-run Bank of India who worked at the
central bank from 2002 to 2010. “Even though the global mayhem
poses risks to growth, the RBI’s core concern right now would be
to control inflation.”  He expects the Reserve Bank to raise its repurchase rate by
a quarter of a percentage point to 8.25 percent in the Sept. 16
policy meeting.  Stocks Gain  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index gained 1.6
percent at 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai today, its biggest two-day
advance since July 2009. The yield on the most-traded 7.8
percent government note due 2021 fell one basis point to 8.32
percent after climbing near a three-week high earlier. The rupee
weakened 0.1 percent to 46.09 per dollar.  India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation rate has stayed
above 9 percent since the start of December and was 9.22 percent
in July after the government allowed state-run companies such as
Indian Oil Corp. to increase diesel costs.  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao in his most recent policy
decision on July 26 raised the central bank’s repurchase rate by
half a percentage point and predicted inflation by the end of
March will be 7 percent, a percentage point higher than his
previous guidance. He forecast India’s economy to expand about 8
percent in the year through March from 8.5 percent in the
previous year.  Subbarao has boosted the  Reserve Bank ’s benchmark rate by
325 basis points since mid-March 2010, the fastest round of
increases since the central bank was established in 1935,
Bloomberg data show.  Global Weakness  Since the last policy announcement, some of the central
bank’s comments have pointed to the impact of a weakening global
economy.  International economic prospects appear more
“pessimistic” now than a month earlier, Reserve Bank Deputy
Governor Subir Gokarn said on Aug. 18. If global financial
problems “amplify and slow down global growth markedly,” it
would “impart a downward bias” to the growth projection, the
central bank said in a report on Aug. 25.  Still, the “immediate challenge to sustaining growth”
lies in taming inflation, the  Reserve Bank report  said. India’s
policy stance will change when inflation is “less of a
problem,” Gokarn said Aug. 25.  Salaries in the world’s second-most populous nation may
grow this year by an average of 13 percent, the fastest in  Asia ,
according to a March survey by Aon Hewitt LLC, stoking price
gains. Wages rose 11.7 percent last year.  Services Surge  Services including hotels, banking and telecommunications,
which account for 58 percent of  India’s economy , grew 10 percent
in the three months through June from a year earlier after an
8.7 percent gain in the previous quarter, according to today’s
report.  Manufacturing expanded 7.2 percent, while mining output
rose 1.8 percent, the report showed. Farm output rose 3.9
percent last quarter, slower than the 7.5 percent growth in the
three months ended March 31.  In the U.S., growth has slowed since early 2010, when gross
domestic product expanded at a 3.9 percent annual pace. GDP rose
at a 1 percent rate in the second quarter of this year after a
0.4 percent pace from January through March, according to the
Commerce Department.  The  Federal Reserve  pledged on Aug. 9 to keep its main
 interest rate  at a record low near zero through at least
mid-2013. In Europe, the  European Central Bank  is taking the
lead in combating the sovereign debt crisis approaching its
third year by buying Spanish and Italian bonds.  Behind  China   India’s expansion is the fastest after China among major
economies,  Rajeev Malik , a senior economist at CLSA Asia Pacific
Markets in  Singapore , said before the report.  China’s economy 
grew 9.5 percent last quarter.  “In a world desperately searching for growth, India’s
relative resilience” can’t be ignored, Malik said.  As a result, foreign direct investment in India more than
doubled to $13.4 billion in the three months through June, a
quarterly record, the commerce ministry said Aug. 8.  BP Plc’s plan to buy a 30 percent stake in oil and gas
blocks of Reliance Industries Ltd. will result in an investment
of $7 billion, and Vedanta Resources Plc’s purchase of Cairn
India Ltd. may bring in $8.7 billion, according to the ministry.  “India’s growth momentum is still quite strong,”
 Dharmakirti Joshi , a Mumbai-based economist at Crisil Ltd., the
local unit of  Standard & Poor’s , said before the report. “It
will keep inflation high.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal at   kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  