-- 
Ireland to Lead Recovery From Sovereign-Debt Turmoil, Ross Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-08-30T17:29:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/ireland-to-lead-europe-s-recovery-from-debt-turmoil-ross-says-tom-keene.html
Ireland’s aggressive efforts to cut
spending will make it the first European nation to recover from
the sovereign-debt crisis, according to the billionaire investor
 Wilbur Ross .  “Ireland will be the first of the euro countries to
recover because they really bit the bullet,” Ross, chairman of
WL Ross & Co., said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt. “Once they get
through all that, the fundamental advantages of Ireland are
intact.”  Ross, whose firm manages about $10 billion in assets,
joined four other investors in agreeing to buy a 34.9 percent
stake in Bank of Ireland Plc. The firm is alone among the
country’s six largest lenders in avoiding government control.
The bank was ordered to raise 5.2 billion euros ($7.4 billion)
of capital following stress tests in March.  Ireland’s advantages include the lowest corporate  tax rate 
in  Europe , a young and well-educated workforce and a solid
transportation and communications infrastructure, Ross said.  “Ireland will once again become the  Celtic Tiger ,” said
Ross, 73. “We’re very heavily invested there.”  For an investor in distressed assets, Europe is more
attractive than the U.S. “because that’s where the problems are
more severe,” Ross said.  European confidence in the economic outlook in August
plunged the most since December 2008 as a persistent debt crisis
roiled markets and clouded growth prospects across the 17-nation
euro region.  European Confidence  An index of executive and consumer sentiment in the
single-currency region fell to 98.3 this month from a revised
103 in July, the European Commission said today. That’s the
lowest since May 2010.  The euro area’s economic prospects are deteriorating as
national governments cut spending in a bid to narrow deficits
and tackle the debt crisis.  Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn 
signaled yesterday that the EU may reduce its 2011 growth
forecast from 1.6 percent on concern financial turbulence may
spill into the broader economy.  “We’re actually a good deal more worried about Europe’s
economy than the U.S. because it’s unclear how the relationship
between the European Union,  Greece  and the other Club Med
countries will eventually work out,” Ross said. “There’s a lot
of turmoil there, and any one of those pieces could produce a
severe problem.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  