-- 
Japanese Stocks Swing Between Gains, Losses on U.S. Consumer Confidence

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 
2011-08-31T06:41:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/japanese-australia-stock-futures-fall-as-u-s-consumer-confidence-plunges.html
Japanese stocks swung between gains
and losses, sending the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average to the biggest
monthly drop in a year, after lower U.S.  consumer confidence 
stoked speculation the  Federal Reserve  will take further steps
to stimulate growth.   Honda Motor Co., a carmaker that gets more than 80 percent
of its revenue abroad, rose 1.5 percent, giving the biggest
support for the Topix index. Nintendo Co., the world’s largest
maker of video-game players, rose 3.9 percent after SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc. raised its rating on the company.  Taiheiyo
Cement Corp. (5233) , a cement maker, plunged 15 percent after saying it
plans to sell shares to the public.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average was little changed at 8,955.20
as of the 3 p.m. trading close in  Tokyo  after falling as much as
0.5 percent. The broader Topix index rose 0.4 percent to 770.60,
after declining as much as 0.4 percent. For the month, the
Nikkei has fallen 8.9 percent, the biggest monthly loss since
May 2010, while the Topix is down 8.4 percent.  “The market has priced in most of the negative factors,
and now it depends on the response from policy makers,” said
Koichi Kurose, chief economist in Tokyo at Resona Bank Ltd.
“While the market won’t go down easily, to go up it needs a
view that appropriate policies will be implemented.”  The Topix has lost about 14 percent this year amid concern
U.S. growth is sputtering and  Europe ’s debt crisis will damage
the banking system, damping demand in two of  Japan ’s biggest
export markets. The decline has cut the price of shares on the
index to 0.9 times book value, the lowest since March 2009.  U.S. Futures  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.3
percent today. In  New York , the index rose 0.2 percent yesterday
after minutes of the Fed’s meeting this month showed some policy
makers favored more aggressive action to stimulate the economy
and lower unemployment.  The minutes indicate that Fed officials will more fully
debate their options when they meet next month for a two-day
meeting that was originally scheduled to last one day. Fed
officials at the August meeting discussed a range of tools,
including buying more  government bonds , to bolster the economy.  Exporters to the U.S. advanced, with Honda rising 1.5
percent to 2,474 yen.  Traders gave the biggest support to the Topix index after
the group’s gross dividend yield reached the highest since March
2009. The dividend yield was 3.45 percent.  Mitsubishi Corp (8058) ,
Japan’s biggest trading company, rose 2.6 yen to 1,302 yen.  Valuations  “We are not seeing a clear direction,” said Hideyuki Ookoshi, general manager at Chibagin Securities Co. “Valuations
such as dividend yield show Japanese stocks are cheap after
pricing in the worst-case scenario, while people find it hard to
buy due to a slowdown in the global economy.”  Stocks fell earlier after the New York-based Conference
Board’s index of U.S. consumer confidence slumped to 44.5, the
weakest reading since April 2009, from a revised 59.2 reading in
July.  “Economic uncertainty is lingering, while excessive
pessimism has receded,” said  Hiroichi Nishi , an equities
manager in Tokyo at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. “Consumer
confidence was bad, and personal spending is likely to weaken in
August after appearing to be good in July.”  Stocks also fell after Japan’s industrial production in
July gained less than economists had expected.  Sony Corp. (6758) ,
Japan’s No. 1 exporter of consumer electronics, slid 1.8 percent
to 1,665 yen.  SMBC Nikko Securities boosted its investment rating on
Nintendo to “outperform” from “neutral,” saying pessimism on
Nintendo and the home-use game market may be diminishing. The
stock gained 4.4 percent to 13,400 yen.  Taiheiyo Cement fell 15 percent to 135 yen, dropping the
most in the Nikkei 225, after announcing a plan to raise as much
as 37.5 billion yen by selling shares to the public, according
to a filing with the Japan’s finance ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 