-- 
Jets Beat Giants 17-3 in Preseason, 4 Months Before Christmas Eve Meeting

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-08-30T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/jets-beat-giants-17-3-in-preseason-4-months-before-christmas-eve-meeting.html
The  New York Jets  beat the New York
Giants 17-3 in a preseason  National Football League  game played
four months before their Christmas Eve showdown.  Mark Sanchez  tossed a 17-yard touchdown pass to Santonio Holmes while the Jets’ defense intercepted  Eli Manning  twice and
had a third-quarter goal-line stand last night at MetLife
Stadium in East Rutherford,  New Jersey .  The exhibition was pushed back two days because of the
threat of severe weather from Hurricane Irene. The Jets and
Giants, who share the $1.6 billion stadium, meet again on Dec.
24, during the next-to-last week of the NFL’s regular season.  “We look forward to it,” Jets safety Jim Leonhard said in
an interview with ESPN radio. “We have a long time, but it’s a
game you always want to win. Whether it’s the preseason or
regular season, you always want to beat those guys.”  The Giants took a 3-0 lead last night on a 34-yard field
goal by Rhys Lloyd with 5:04 left in the second quarter. The
score came nine plays after a fumble by Sanchez at the Giants’
37-yard line.  The Jets went ahead 7-3 with two minutes left in the first
half as Sanchez hooked up with Holmes, a touchdown that was set
up by  Antonio Cromartie ’s 68-yard kickoff return.  With the Giants’ offensive starters still in the game for
the first drive of the third quarter, the Jets stopped Danny Ware on a fourth-down run from the 1-yard line to maintain a
four-point lead. The stop came minutes after a scuffle that led
to the ejections of Giants running back Brandon Jacobs and Jets
defensive lineman Muhammad Wilkerson, a first-round pick in this
year’s NFL draft.  ‘Pretty Good Day’  “We had a pretty good day. We won the three quarters like
we wanted to,” Sanchez said in comments distributed by the Jets.
“We started off a little slow, but we got things going right
before halftime.”  The Jets, who lost last year’s preseason matchup with the
Giants 31-16, capped the scoring in the fourth quarter with a 1-
yard touchdown run by backup running back Bilal Powell and a 33-
yard field goal from  Nick Folk .  Manning completed 15 of 30 passes for 200 yards for the
Giants before being replaced by David Carr. Sanchez threw for 64
yards and connected on 8 of 16 passes for the Jets.  Jacobs had a team-leading 51 rushing yards for the Giants
and Shonn Greene led the Jets with 42 yards on 11 carries.  The Jets, who are now 2-1 in the preseason, next play
Philadelphia in a Sept. 1 exhibition before opening the regular
season Sept. 11 at home against the  Dallas Cowboys .  The Giants fell to 1-2 in their preseason schedule, which
concludes in two days against  New England . The Giants open the
NFL regular season Sept. 11 at the  Washington Redskins .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  