-- 
Kenya’s Shilling Gains for First Day in Four, Paring Month Loss

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-08-30T09:19:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/kenya-s-shilling-gains-for-first-day-in-four-paring-month-loss.html
Kenya ’s shilling snapped the biggest
three-day decline in three weeks on speculation yesterday’s
losses caused by new borrowing rules introduced by the central
bank were overdone.  The currency gained as much as 0.5 percent to 93.13 per
dollar, and traded 0.2 percent stronger at 93.45 by 10:49 a.m.
in Nairobi, the capital. The shilling is headed for a 3 percent
drop this month, an eight straight month of declines. Kenya’s
market is closed for the Muslim Eid Al-Fitr holiday tomorrow.  The currency of  East Africa ’s biggest economy fell the most
in three weeks yesterday after the central bank introduced new
rules for commercial lenders borrowing from its overnight window
for a second time this month. The move introduced “even greater
uncertainty” in the market, Phumelele Mbiyo, an analyst with
Standard Bank Group Ltd., wrote yesterday.  Yesterday’s 0.8 decline in the shilling was “overdone,”
Chris Muiga, a currency trader with Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd.,
said by phone from Nairobi today. “The central bank came out
with new rules and the entire market interpreted it the same
way, taking the same position. We are now seeing a correction.”  Starting yesterday, the central bank included a factor
ranging from zero to one based on “the specific liquidity
conditions in the  interbank market ” when calculating its
overnight discount rate. The bank will also use a moving average
of interbank lending rates over a longer, unspecified period to
work out its overnight borrowing rate, instead of applying the
previous day’s rate. The bank stopped publishing the overnight
rate on Aug. 19.  Interbank Rate Falls  On Aug. 12, the central bank said it would increase the
charges for banks using its overnight window to tighten  money
supply  and shore up depreciation in the shilling, which reached
a 17-year low on Aug. 9 as the cost of importing food and fuel
pushed inflation to 15.5 percent in July, more than triple the
bank’s target.  The central bank yesterday also loosened the requirement
regarding the value of deposits that lenders keep in reserves.  The average interbank lending rate fell for the first time
in three weeks yesterday, retreating to 27.7299 percent from
28.4440 percent on Aug. 26, according to data from the Central
Bank of Kenya.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  