-- 
Kenya’s Inflation Accelerates to 16.7%, Boosting Pressure on Central Bank

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-08-30T14:05:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/kenya-s-inflation-accelerates-to-16-7-adding-pressure-on-central-bank.html
Kenyan inflation accelerated to 16.7
percent in August, more than triple the  central bank ’s target,
as the worst regional drought in 60 years boosted food prices
and the shilling fell to a 17-year low.  The inflation rate rose from 15.5 percent in July, the
Nairobi-based  Kenya National Bureau of Statistics  said in an e-
mailed statement today. Prices increased 1.25 percent in the
month, the agency said.  The  Central Bank of Kenya  left its key lending rate
unchanged at 6.25 percent on July 27, saying that inflation is
being fueled by drought that higher  interest rates  can’t
influence. Governor Njuguna Ndung’u has turned instead to
adjusting the discount overnight rate, which commercial banks
use to borrow from the central bank, in a bid to strengthen the
shilling, which fell to a low of 95.10 against the dollar on
Aug. 9.  “The central bank is using other measures to achieve their
aim of tightening,” Yvonne Mhango, an economist at  Renaissance
Capital , said in a telephone interview from Johannesburg today.
“With the tools they are trying to impact more on credit growth
and the shilling.”  The currency was little changed at 93.70 against the dollar
as of 4:22 p.m. in Nairobi from 93.50 before the data was
released. The shilling has slumped 14 percent against the dollar
this year, the second-worst performing African currency after
 Uganda ’s shilling, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Food Inflation  Kenya has raised the  minimum wage  by 12.5 percent, cut
 import duties  on wheat and corn, and reduced excise levies on
diesel and kerosene this year, to help support consumers and
ward off protests against the rising living costs.  Food prices rose 24 percent in August from a year earlier,
the same pace as in July, the statistics office said. A weaker
currency boosted fuel costs by the same magnitude this month.  Ndung’u said on Aug. 18 the central bank will “fight” for
 price stability  and food prices will probably start easing as
early as September or October. Inflation will probably peak in
October, Mhango said.  Bond yields surged this year on concern inflation will
erode returns. The yield on the five-year bond climbed to 13.887
percent at an auction on Aug. 24, the highest level since at
least May 2006. The yield on the 30-year security jumped to a
record of 16.397 percent at the same auction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  