-- 
Fed’s Kocherlakota Says He Will ‘Abide’ by Mid-2013 Interest Rate Pledge

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-08-30T19:28:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/kocherlakota-signals-he-will-not-attempt-to-annul-fed-s-low-rate-pledge.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis
President  Narayana Kocherlakota  signaled he would not attempt to
annul the Fed’s commitment to keep interest rates near zero
through mid-2013.  “I believe that undoing this commitment in the near term
would undercut the ability of the Committee to offer similar
conditional commitments in the future -- and this ability has
certainly proved very useful in the past three years,”
Kocherlakota said today in a speech in Bismarck, North Dakota.
“I plan to abide by the August 2011 commitment in thinking
about my own future decisions. Of course, the case for any
additional easing would have to be made on its own merits.”  On Aug. 9, Kocherlakota joined two other regional bank
presidents,  Charles Plosser  of Philadelphia and  Richard Fisher 
of  Dallas , in posing the most opposition to a Fed decision since
1992. They dissented from the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s
pledge to hold interest rates in a range of zero to 0.25 percent
until at least mid-2013, preferring instead to maintain a
commitment to do so for an unspecified “extended period.”  Kocherlakota said that the most dissent in Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s tenure resulted from differing interpretations of
incoming economic data.  Policy Disagreement  “It’s unusual to see an increase in inflation and a fall
in unemployment occur when GDP growth is so sluggish and when
the outlook for real GDP growth has slipped so much,” he said.
“It is hardly surprising that there might well be some
disagreement about the appropriate monetary policy response to
this conflicting mix of information.”  A few Fed policy makers this month favored more aggressive
action to stimulate the economy and lower unemployment, minutes
of their meeting released today showed.  Those members, who weren’t identified, “felt that recent
economic developments justified a more substantial move” beyond
the pledge adopted at the last FOMC meeting to hold its key
 interest rate  at a record low until mid-2013.  “Given the data flow I’m aware of, I do not see the need
for further accommodation,” Kocherlakota told reporters after
the speech. Such a move would only be warranted if unemployment
began to rise further or if inflation retreated. “After that, I
haven’t thought through which of the options” for further
stimulus would work best, he said, adding that there are
“definitely tools left in the Fed’s toolkit.”  Communication Failure  By changing its statement to say interest rates will remain
near zero until at least mid-2013 even as unemployment has
dropped and inflation picked up, Kocherlakota said he was
concerned the Fed was failing to communicate its objectives.
“That inconsistency does suggest there’s a gap between our
communication and the committee’s actions,” he said.  In response to questions from the audience, the regional
Fed chief said he agreed with Bernanke’s Aug. 26 speech in
 Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , that the U.S. would not have permanent
scars from the recession that ended in June 2009.  “The fundamentals in this country are very strong,”
Kocherlakota said. “We will get back to growing the way we’re
used to in the  United States ,” though there will be a
“transition process and that will take some time.”  Kocherlakota offered a partial explanation for his dissent
in an Aug. 12 statement.  Dissent Explained  “I dissented from this change in language because the
evolution of macroeconomic data did not reflect a need to make
monetary policy more accommodative than in November 2010,” when
the Fed launched a second round of quantitative easing,
Kocherlakota, 47, the Fed’s youngest policy maker, said in the
statement released three days after the FOMC meeting.  According to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News, the Labor Department will report on Sept. 2 that
the economy added 75,000 jobs in August, less than the 117,000
July gain.  Kocherlakota said that he expects inflation to increase,
averaging about 2 percent per year over 2011 and 2012, as
measured by the personal consumption expenditures index
excluding food and energy, or  core inflation .  The Commerce Department reported yesterday that its
personal consumption expenditures index rose 2.8 percent from a
year earlier. Core inflation rose 1.6 percent from July 2010.  Kocherlakota said that many monetary policy rules would
look at a lower  unemployment rate  and higher inflation rate and
“would recommend that the FOMC not ease policy further and in
fact consider reducing the level of monetary policy
accommodation.”  No Ease Needed  “That recommendation -- don’t ease further if you’re doing
better on your mandates -- makes sense to me,” he said.  Kocherlakota, a former academic who has led the  Minneapolis
Fed  since October 2009,also offered a word of praise for
Bernanke in his speech.  “Chairman Bernanke strongly welcomes the airing of
disparate views within the meeting,” Kocherlakota said. “He
clearly believes -- as I do -- that the United States has a
decentralized central bank because we will get better monetary
policy if decision-making is grounded in a wide range of views.
I think that the chairman should be applauded for this approach
to policymaking.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Bismarck,  North Dakota  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  