-- 
Korea Banking Pitfalls Snaring Lone Star Help Scare Away Foreign Investor

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-08-30T01:10:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/korea-banking-pitfalls-snaring-lone-star-help-scare-away-foreign-investors.html
Hong Sung Sook, a 67-year-old Seoul
housewife, says she’s getting ready to pull $100,000 of savings
out of  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) ’s South Korean unit and put it in
a local bank. Paul Yoo, 60, the former country head of  Lone Star
Funds , is locked up in jail and refuses to talk to the press.  Their stories help explain why six years have passed since
any overseas investor has taken over a Korean financial company
valued at more than $500 million, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak ’s latest effort
to sell Woori Finance Holdings Co. collapsed this month after
the taxpayer-rescued firm failed to attract any bids from abroad.  Standard Chartered’s efforts to base pay on performance
enmeshed it in the longest strike in  Korea ’s banking history,
while Dallas-based  Lone Star ’s third attempt to exit a 2003
investment is entangled in court. Public mistrust of buyout
firms, political opposition to government-backed reforms and
abrupt regulatory changes may also deter fresh entrants.  “It’s clearly negative for foreign investors in any
country to see a strike like this,” said James Rooney, chief
executive officer of consulting firm Market Force Co. in Seoul.
“Foreign investors can’t rely on  South Korea ’s government as
rules are changed all the time.”  About 2,700 staff at Standard Chartered First Bank Korea
Ltd. resumed duties yesterday for the first time in two months,
while warning of further stoppages unless the company withdraws
the new salary system. The union says performance-based pay
would lead to job and wage cuts, while the company, known as SC
First Bank, says it will improve competitiveness.  Last Straw  “The strike was the last straw,” said Hong. “I’ve been a
loyal customer for three decades even though the service was bad
and it paid lower interest than other Korean banks.”  The dispute forced  Standard Chartered  to temporarily close
42 branches, a tenth of its network in a market that accounts
for 11 percent of the London-based lender’s annual revenue.  It’s too early to determine the impact of the strike and
branch closures on business, SC First Bank said in an e-mailed
response to Bloomberg questions, declining to provide figures on
deposits or loans. The bank said it would do its best to
minimize inconvenience to customers, who are increasingly using
automated teller machines and online services for banking.  SC First Bank’s market share fell to 6.6 percent of
deposits at the country’s seven largest lenders in 2010, from
8.7 percent when Standard Chartered acquired the company for
$3.3 billion five years earlier, according to regulatory filings.  Lose Customers  “It looks like it’ll be very tough for them to reach an
agreement anytime soon,” Sohn Joon Beum, an analyst at LIG
Investment & Securities Co. in  Seoul , said of the labor conflict.  As cross-border financial-industry mergers falter in Korea,
elsewhere in  Asia  they are picking up. Dai-Ichi Life Insurance
Co. purchased Tower Australia Group Ltd. for A$1.2 billion ($1.3
billion) this year, and Malayan Banking Bhd bought Singapore
brokerage Kim Eng Holdings Ltd. for S$1 billion ($830 million),
Bloomberg data show.  Lingering public criticism and a legal dispute over Lone
Star’s takeover of Korea Exchange Bank eight years ago is one
reason why overseas investors shunned bidding for Woori Finance
this month, according to Yun Chang Hyun, professor of business
administration at University of Seoul.  Left Scar  “The scar Lone Star left here is too deep,” said Yun. “I
don’t think any major foreign capital will try to penetrate the
Korean banking industry for a while.”  The government received a solitary bid for Woori, from
local private-equity fund MBK Partners Ltd., by its Aug. 17
deadline, forcing President Lee to abandon his second attempt to
sell the nation’s biggest financial firm by assets. Woori was
created in 2001 as a holding company for banks that taxpayers
bailed out following the Asian financial crisis in 1997-1998.  Yoo has been back behind bars since July 21 on concern that
he may flee while he, Lone Star and  Korea Exchange Bank (004940)  are
retried on charges of stock-price manipulation. Yoo was jailed
in February 2008, then acquitted and freed five months later.  Korea’s highest court in March ordered a retrial of the
case, which charged him with spreading false rumors of a
possible capital reduction at KEB’s card unit to drive down its
stock price in 2003 and enable Lone Star to buy it cheaply.  Lone Star isn’t the only foreign financial firm being
accused of wrongdoing in Asia’s fourth-largest economy. Four
Deutsche Bank AG employees and the German lender’s Korean
brokerage unit were charged with market manipulation that caused
a one-day stock rout on Nov. 11, prosecutors said on Aug. 21.  Delayed Sale  The case against Lone Star has delayed its planned 4.4
trillion won ($4.1 billion) sale of Korea Exchange Bank to  Hana
Financial Group Inc. (086790) , the country’s fourth-largest financial
company. The Financial Services Commission, a state regulator,
said in May that it won’t decide whether to approve the takeover
until the court makes its judgment.  Lone Star has had previous efforts to sell Korea Exchange
Bank stymied by regulator inaction.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  dropped a
$6 billion bid for the lender in September 2008 after
authorities left the plan in limbo for more than a year because
of legal disputes involving the U.S. buyout fund. Criminal
probes into Lone Star forced Seoul-based Kookmin Bank to cancel
its plan to buy KEB in November 2006.  Failed efforts by officials to relax bidding rules helped
to thwart the Woori sale, Yun said. In June, opposition party
lawmakers rejected a plan by the Financial Services Commission
that would have allowed rival Korean financial holding companies
to take a smaller stake than the 95 percent required by law.
President Lee abandoned a previous attempt to privatize the
company in December because of a lack of bidders.  Clearer Plans  “The sales won’t succeed unless the government comes up
with clearer and more detailed plans and gives proper rights and
responsibilities to officials,” said Kim Sang Jo, a professor
of international trade at Hansung University in Seoul who also
leads shareholder activist group Solidarity for Economic Reform.  Korea’s financial watchdogs have been busy over the past
year. The country began a three-month ban on stock short-sales
on Aug. 10 after global market turmoil triggered a 15 percent
drop in the benchmark Kospi stock index since the start of the
month. Other directives have related to  capital controls ,
taxation of bonds, mergers among savings banks, the role of
domestic brokerages, companies buying foreign-currency bonds and
bank holdings of currency derivatives.  “The Korean government has always been trying to improve
transparency and efficiency of sound market function through our
open market policy,” Ernst Lee, a spokesman for the Financial
Services Commission, said in an e-mailed response to Bloomberg.  Lower Profit  Combined profit at 37 branches of foreign banks operating
in Korea fell 43 percent to 538.5 billion won in the first half
of 2011 as they booked derivatives losses and interest income
dropped, according to the Financial Supervisory Service.  Regulators tried to resolve the strike at Standard
Chartered. It has been more than a month since Financial
Supervisory Service Governor Kwon Hyouk Se instructed his agency
on July 18 to seek an early end to the dispute.  “Trade unions are a factor that foreign investors will
consider when they’re deciding on entering Korea,” said  Kenny Tang , Hong Kong-based general manager of AMTD Financial Planning
Ltd. “Foreign investors will be worried.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  