-- 
National Bank of Greece Posts EU1.31 Billion Loss on Bonds

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-08-30T15:56:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/national-bank-of-greece-posts-1-9-billion-first-half-loss-on-writedowns.html
National Bank of Greece SA (ETE) , the
country’s biggest bank, reported a first-half loss after writing
down its holdings of Greek  government bonds .  The net loss was 1.31 billion euros ($1.89 billion),
compared with a profit in the year earlier period of 146 million
euros, according to a faxed statement from the Athens-based
lender today. National wrote down the value of its bonds by
1.645 billion euros, according to the statement. Stripping out
that figure, profit was 29 million euros.  “The Greek economy and banking system will continue to
face formidable challenges in the period ahead,” Chief
Executive Officer Apostolos Tamvakakis said in the statement.
The completion of the private-sector contribution in the Greek
government’s second financing program, which entails losses for
bondholders, and a review of loan portfolios must be concluded
before National Bank can determine its next strategic moves, he
said.  National, the country’s oldest bank, is being challenged in
Greece and the region by Alpha Bank SA’s takeover of  EFG
Eurobank Ergasias SA (EUROB) , announced yesterday. That combination,
designed to ride out a deepening recession and the country’s
sovereign debt crisis, will create Alpha Eurobank, the biggest
bank in southeast  Europe .  National Bank fell 22 cents, or 6.1 percent, to 3.37 euros
in Athens trading, following a 29 percent surge yesterday.  Debt Writedown  European Union and Greek officials, including central bank
chief  George Provopoulos , have pressed the country’s lenders to
form stronger groups that can survive a crisis that has depleted
capital as bond prices slump, loan-losses mount and banks lose
deposits. Lenders have been left reliant on funding from the
 European Central Bank .  National wrote down the book value of 9 billion euros of
bonds eligible for inclusion in the debt swap that will help
fund  Greece  until 2014. It also had provisions of 822 million
euros for bad loans in the period as the country’s economy
shrank under the weight of wage and pension cuts implemented in
return for the country’s first 110 billion-euro bailout from
European Union partners.  Without the bond markdown, National said it had a profit
that was largely due to units in  Turkey  and southeast Europe.  Share prices in Greece’s lenders plummeted last week as the
country grappled with a third year of recession and the
government pursued negotiations on a second bailout package,
which will entail losses for bondholders.  Deposits Decline  The bank reported deposits of 62 billion euros at the end
of the first half, a 10 percent drop from a year earlier. The
decline in deposits intensified in Greece in the second quarter
with a reversal noted after EU leaders agreed on a second
financing package for the country on July 21, the bank said.  Deposits in the country slumped by 21.4 billion euros since
December 2010, or 10 percent, overall, according to figures from
the Athens-based  Bank of Greece (TELL) , with the withdrawals forcing
Greek banks to borrow more from the central bank as money
markets remain shut.  National Bank said its Tier 1 capital ratio was 11.2 percent
at the end of the period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at   mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  