-- 
N.Y. Lawmakers Protest Schneiderman Mortgage Panel Removal

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-08-30T21:48:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/new-york-lawmakers-criticize-schneiderman-s-removal-from-foreclosure-panel.html
New York  lawmakers sent a letter to
Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller saying they were “troubled”
by the removal of New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman 
from an executive committee of state officials negotiating a
nationwide foreclosure settlement with U.S. banks.  “Raising legitimate concerns about elements of the
proposed settlement is a responsibility of every member of the
executive committee and should never be the basis for silencing
a viewpoint,” 21 members of the New York congressional
delegation said in an Aug. 25 letter. “Your removal of Attorney
General Schneiderman sets a dangerous precedent for other
attorneys general who, out of fear of what might happen, may
choose silence over voicing valid concerns.”  Schneiderman, who doesn’t want a settlement to bar further
investigations of mortgage practices by individual states, was
removed because his office “actively worked to undermine” the
attorney general group, Miller said last week. Schneiderman had
already declined to be part of a smaller committee negotiating
with the banks, said Miller, the leader of the attorney general
group.  Attorneys general  from all 50 states last year announced
their investigation into bank foreclosure practices after
reports that faulty documents were being used to seize homes.  Negotiated Settlement  Since then, a group of attorneys general and officials from
federal agencies, including the  Justice Department , have been
negotiating a settlement with the five largest mortgage
servicers in the U.S.  Miller is reviewing the letter, Geoff Greenwood, the Iowa
attorney general’s spokesman, said today. “We anticipate
responding later in the week,” Greenwood said.  Miller issued a statement Aug. 23 on Schneiderman’s role.  “From October 2010 until June 2011, New York was
intimately involved in every aspect of this investigation and
possible settlement,” Miller said in the statement. “In June
2011, our group decided that we needed to take the fairly large
executive committee and create a smaller negotiation
committee.”  New York declined an invitation to be part of this
negotiation committee “because it indicated it would possibly
pursue a different direction,” Miller said.  Another Path  “While we certainly respect the right of any state to
choose to no longer participate in a multistate and to pursue
another path, working to actively undermine a multistate while
still a member of the Executive Committee simply doesn’t make
sense, is unprecedented and is unacceptable,” Miller said in
last week’s statement.  Government officials are seeking an agreement that provides
funding for writedowns on  mortgage loans  for borrowers and sets
standards for how the banks service loans, interact with
borrowers and conduct foreclosures, according to terms proposed
in March.  Several attorneys general, including Schneiderman,
criticized any settlement that would protect banks from state
investigations by providing the lenders with broad releases from
liability. Those probes include the bundling of mortgage loans
into securities.  ‘Deserves Seat’  New York “deserves a seat at any negotiating table that
could potentially limit our state’s ability to investigate and
penalize wrongdoing done within our borders,” the congressional
delegation said in the letter to Miller. “Your attempt to
banish opposition rather than address varying viewpoints
undermines both the validity of the process and any settlement
reached by the committee.”  Attorneys general who want to continue their own probes
after an agreement are  Martha Coakley  in  Massachusetts ,
Delaware’s  Beau Biden  and Catherine Cortez Masto in Nevada.
Delaware is also a member of the executive committee.  The companies involved in the talks are  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) 
and Ally Financial Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
David McLaughlin in New York
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  