-- 
New York-Area Commuter Railroads Come Back to Life After Hurricane Irene

-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 
2011-08-30T11:14:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/new-york-area-commuter-railroads-come-back-to-life-after-hurricane-irene.html
Railroads that bring more than
800,000 weekday commuters into  New York  City are resuming most
service after transit workers pumped water off tracks, cleared
fallen trees and restored power in the wake of Hurricane Irene.  The  Metropolitan Transportation Authority ’s Metro-North
Railroad resumed full weekday rail service on its Hudson line
and the main branch of its New Haven Line, and is running Harlem
trains as far north as the Southeast station north of Brewster.
That represents more than 85 percent of its peak morning riders,
according to Marjorie Anders, a spokeswoman. Service on the Port
Jervis line is suspended indefinitely after track beds were
washed out by flooding, she said.  New Jersey Transit  said in a statement that crews worked
through the night to restore most service by rush hour. On the
Northeast Corridor line, trains will operate only between  New
Brunswick  and New York because of flooding in Trenton, the
agency said in an e-mailed statement.  The MTA’s Long Island Rail Road, the busiest commuter line
in the U.S. with 345,000 weekday riders on 11 routes, restored
all or part of services on seven yesterday.  LIRR service remains suspended between Port Jefferson and
Huntington, and between Greenport and Ronkonkoma, and on the
 Long Beach ,  Oyster Bay , and Montauk branches. There will be no
diesel train service to Hunterspoint Avenue or  Long Island City ,
the MTA said on its website.  Highways  On the highways, all major arteries and river crossings
into and out of  New York City  were flowing normally, according
to Shadow Traffic. Some low-lying roads in Northern and Central
 New Jersey  were flooded in parts, with lane closures and detours
slowing commuters, particularly around Wayne and Parsippany,
Shadow Traffic reported.  “Metro-North had some major challenges,” said Bill Henderson, executive director of the Permanent Citizens Advisory
Committee to the MTA. “They had mud slides, they had flooding,
I think they were waiting for the locusts next.”  Metro-North brings  286,000 commuters  on an average weekday
to New York from the northern suburbs and  Connecticut . The MTA
cleared a mudslide 10 feet (3 meters) deep that covered two
tracks at the Spuyten Duyvil station in the Bronx only to have
more mud come down, Anders said.  New York’s MTA, the biggest U.S. transit agency, said
service on the Metro-North’s Upper Harlem,  New Canaan , Danbury,
and Waterbury lines remained  suspended .  Electrical substations were flooded and transmission poles
were damaged on the Harlem line, which connects Grand Central to
the Westchester towns of Scarsdale and Chappaqua, Anders said.
Parking lots adjacent to stations were inundated, as streams and
the Bronx River continued to overflow their banks.  New Jersey  In New Jersey, most commuter rail lines -- including the
Morris & Essex, Main/Bergen County, Pascack Valley,
Montclair/Boonton and North Jersey Coast -- were expected to
resume a regular schedule this morning, subject to delays,
according to a statement from New Jersey Transit.  The Northeast Corridor will be limited to runs between New
Brunswick and New York City because of flooded tracks at the
Trenton Transit Center.  “Fifty percent of the trains that are used on the
Northeast Corridor are on the other side of the Trenton Transit
Center,” in a storage yard in Morrisville,  Pennsylvania , Penny Bassett Hackett, a spokeswoman for  New Jersey Transit , said in a
telephone interview. “We just don’t have the equipment.”  The cars were stashed there to prevent hurricane damage,
and engineers have no estimates for when they could be returned
to New Jersey, she said.  Sinkhole  Near the Aberdeen-Matawan station, 37 miles (59 kilometers)
from Manhattan, crews were filling a 35-foot-wide sinkhole with
500 tons of stone, Bassett Hackett said. Systemwide, crews
removed 400 trees that had fallen on the tracks.  New York subways reopened yesterday after the first
shutdown since a strike in 2005, and buses started returning at
4 p.m. Aug. 28.  Henderson, the executive director of the MTA advisory
committee, gave the transit agency good marks in dealing with
the storm.  “They had some big issues to deal with and they dealt with
them,” he said. “It’s a combination of good strategy, work and
luck. They were very close in Lower  Manhattan  to having a
situation where they would have some flooded tunnels and could
have had some real damage from the salt water.”  -- With assistance from Martin Z. Braun in New York. Editors:
James Kraus, Peter Branton  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter S. Green in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net ;
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 