-- 
New U.S. Consumer Hotline Not Routing Some Complaints to Banks

-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 
2011-08-30T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/new-u-s-consumer-hotline-not-routing-some-complaints-to-banks.html
Some consumer credit-card complaints
haven’t reached banks that issued the cards because of technical
problems in the new system created by the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, industry groups and regulators said.  The month-old complaint response system has failed to
properly route all inquiries, a problem bureau spokeswoman Jen Howard said the agency will resolve “within a matter of
weeks.” Howard didn’t say how many complaints have been held
up.  The agency launched the system, which is required by the
Dodd-Frank financial-overhaul law, on July 21. Its website
invites consumers to file complaints about credit cards, the
most common form of  consumer credit , and will eventually cover
other financial services. Previously complaints about banks were
handled by agencies including the Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency, the  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation  and the
 Federal Reserve , all of which now refer calls to the bureau.  Some banks found that their volume of complaints dropped as
the bureau’s system failed to work properly, said Richard Hunt,
head of the  Consumer Bankers Association . The banks were
concerned they might be blamed for unanswered queries, he said.  “If you’re a bank, you don’t know there has been a
complaint unless the CFPB tells you,” Hunt said in an
interview.  Howard said some issuers did not receive complaints filed
through the agency’s website because of “browser compatibility
issues.” As they were resolved, the issuers in turn experience
a “one-time increase” in complaints referred via the consumer
bureau.  ‘Not Prepared’  “We expect that within a matter of weeks all remaining
technological issues will be resolved,” Howard said in an e-
mailed response to questions.  Richard Riese, a senior vice president at the American
Bankers Association Center for Regulatory Compliance, said the
start-up problems demonstrate that the bureau is “clearly not
prepared to take on the transfer of these responsibilities.”  Not all banks are seeing the problems. Paul Hartwick, a
spokesman for Chase Card Services, a part of  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  said the bureau’s system is functioning properly. “We are
receiving referrals and the volume is consistent with our
expectations,” Hartwick said in an e-mail.  Until 2010, as the mortgage crisis gained steam and a new
credit-card law took effect, credit cards were the largest
source of complaints filed with the OCC, which regulates
nationally chartered banks including JPMorgan and  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)   Point of Contention  In 2009, consumers registered 26,380 complaints on credit
cards, or 37 percent of the total filed, according to the OCC’s
 website . In 2010, as changes mandated by the CARD Act of 2009
took effect, the number sank to 14,715, and mortgage-related
inquiries hit 38,034.  The consumer complaint system, which applies to the 111
banks with assets over $10 billion, became a point of
contention between bank lobbyists and the new agency even before
it opened. Consumer groups want the bureau to allow anyone to
view raw complaints, while industry representatives contend that
would allow frivolous complaints to damage a firm’s reputation.  The bankers association, in an Aug. 1 letter to the Office
of Management and Budget, said that information collected via
the system “should be narrowly held for the purpose of
addressing individual complaint resolution.”  Committee Review  “It should not be considered a source for analysis,
reporting or sharing outside the Bureau’s or prudential
regulators’ own supervisory purposes because the form of
questions, content and reliability of information gathered and
the interaction of all parties in handling this process are not
finally settled,” Riese wrote in the letter.  A committee within the consumer bureau is working on the
issue of how much complaint information to release, according to
a person briefed on its work. Whatever the bureau does decide to
release will be entirely public, the person said.  Dodd-Frank specifically permits, though it does not
require, the complaints to be shared with the states. The bureau
is already sharing information with some state  attorneys general 
and the Federal Trade Commission through the FTC’s Consumer
Sentinel system, according to an Aug. 12 blog post on the
bureau’s website.  Bankers oppose the release of consumer complaint data “in
a non-aggregated fashion” to state attorneys general, Riese
said in the interview. State officials do not need the data
since the consumer bureau has enforcement authority already,
Riese said.  ‘Second-Guessed’  “They cannot just open the door to being second-guessed by
attorneys general who want to take a complaint or two and barge
into a CFPB institution that has already thought it had
addressed the issues,” Riese said.  Part of the initial problem with the bureau’s complaint
system may have been the lack of testing before the launch. The
bureau had said it would work with five issuers -- JPMorgan,
Bank of America,  American Express Co. (AXP) ,  Discover Financial
Services (DFS)  and  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  -- to test the system.
The bureau didn’t follow through, according to an executive with
a major credit-card issuer who spoke on condition of anonymity.  Howard disputed that, saying that the bureau “consulted
with and previewed the system with a number of issuers as well
as with trade associations and consumer groups” before July 21.  Bryan Hubbard , a spokesman for the OCC, said that the
consumer bureau would take over complaints on all financial
products, not only credit cards, by March 2012.  Howard disagreed. “We haven’t announced a timeline,” she
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in  Washington  at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 