-- 
New York State Municipal-Funding Agency to Offer $191 Million: Muni Credit

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 
2011-08-30T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/new-york-state-municipal-funding-agency-to-offer-191-million-muni-credit.html
New York  Local Government Assistance
Corp., which helps the state fund payments owed to
municipalities and school districts, will sell $191 million of
tax-exempt bonds tomorrow to refinance variable-rate debt.  The  top-rated corporation  could benefit from this week’s
relatively sparse tax-exempt sales calendar, particularly of New
York issues, said Neil Klein, who manages $925 million in fixed-
income assets at Carret Asset Management LLP in New York.
Scheduled sales are the fewest for a week before Labor Day since
Bloomberg began compiling its index of weekly issuance in 2003.  “There is enough pent-up demand for good-quality municipal
bonds that the deal will be received well,” Klein said. “It’s
a large offering, so it may test the market’s demand.”  The sale is the biggest in a week set for $1.5 billion of
municipal issuance, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
offering was postponed from today and will price tomorrow
through competitive bids, Eric Sumberg, a spokesman for New York
state Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli , said in a telephone
interview.  Proceeds will refinance all or part of Series 2008B-BV2
subordinate variable-rate bonds into fixed-rate debt and end a
swap agreement attached to the securities, according to the
 preliminary official statement . The swap counterparties are  UBS
AG (UBSN)  and  Societe Generale (GLE) , according to the corporation’s 2011
annual report.  Dexia SA (DEXB)  provides a standby purchase agreement on
the 2008 bonds.  Underperforming Issue  The transaction will “eliminate an underperforming
liquidity facility,” Sumberg said in an e-mail. “The ability
to lock in extremely low fixed rates made the current structure
attractive.”  Yields on top-rated 10-year tax-exempt debt hovered at 2.2
percent yesterday, near a one-year low. Yields on top-rated 30-
year tax-exempt bonds yesterday were 3.85 percent, near the
lowest since November.  The cost of the swap termination and debt-service savings
from the refinancing will be determined at pricing, Sumberg
said.  The debt is backed by 1 percentage point of the state’s 4
percent sales tax, subject to appropriation. The corporation is
set to receive $2.8 billion of sales-tax revenue in fiscal 2012,
which ends March 31, according to offering documents.  The subordinate bonds, along with the corporation’s
outstanding senior debt, are rated AAA by  Standard & Poor’s , its
highest rating.  Appropriation Incentive  Fitch Ratings grades the subordinate debt and the senior
bonds AA with a positive outlook, the same rating as New York
state because of “the strength of the state’s incentive to
appropriate for the LGAC bonds,” according to a Fitch report.  The rating companies don’t grade the senior bonds higher
than the subordinate debt because of the “very high” debt-
service coverage levels for both liens, according to a Standard
& Poor’s report.  A senior-lien corporation bond rated AA that was sold in
2008 with an April 2021 maturity traded Aug. 26 with an average
yield of 2.3 percent, or 37 basis points below an index of 10-
year AA+ rated tax-exempt general-obligation bonds. On March 11,
the bonds traded with an average yield of 4.02 percent, the
highest this year and 37 basis points above the index that day.  Following is a description of a pending sale of municipal
debt:  COUNTY OF NEW HANOVER, NORTH CAROLINA, the second-smallest
by area in the state, will sell $93.7 million of hospital
revenue bonds as soon as tomorrow to refund New Hanover Regional
Medical Center Series 1999 bonds. The refunding is rated A1,
Moody’s Investors Service’s fifth-highest grade.  RBC Capital
Markets  is senior manager of the deal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  