-- 
No Erasure Left Behind Is Key to Stopping Test Mischief: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-08-30T00:00:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/no-erasure-left-behind-is-key-to-stopping-standardized-test-mischief-view.html
The plague started in Georgia, then
made its way to  Washington , Philadelphia and  New Jersey . No,
it’s not the trailer for “Contagion,” September’s big pandemic
movie, but a distressing number of suspected cheating scandals
in elementary and middle schools.  The No Child Left Behind Act, enacted in 2002, didn’t
invent standardized tests, but it set national standards based
on them. Meeting those standards now plays a huge role in
determining school financing, teacher promotion and student
advancement.  The theory of high-stakes testing and the wisdom of the
legislation are subjects for another day. The question now,
though, is this: If so much depends on the test, then shouldn’t
it be better protected from manipulation?  The suspected cheating, it’s worth noting, is not by
students but by teachers and school administrators, whose career
prospects are at stake. The scale of the problem became apparent
in October 2010, when agents from the Georgia Bureau of
Investigation descended on 56 Atlanta-area schools to ask why a
statistically surprising number of student answer sheets had
shown wrong answers erased and correct ones inserted.  Investigations by education officials and newspapers,
particularly  USA Today , have also exposed evidence of wrongdoing
in  Arizona ,  California ,  Florida ,  Michigan ,  Texas ,  Ohio  and
elsewhere. In Washington, D.C., which had been held up as a
beacon of educational reform under former schools Chancellor
Michelle Rhee, officials are now scrutinizing dozens of schools.  Monitor Answer Sheets  Obviously, the first line of defense against cheating is at
the schools themselves, where states and districts should
mandate strict prevention measures. Schools are generally
required to have testing protocols and compliance officers but
would be wise to step up oversight of testing booklets and
answer sheets before and after the exam period, and to bring in
independent monitors such as former teachers on testing days.  Another idea is to have the tests administered by a private
party. Yes, that would cost money, but so does an investigation
like  Georgia ’s, which will probably run into the millions of
dollars.  States must also be more willing to use available
technology to catch wrongdoing. The scanners used to grade the
answer sheets, provided by companies such as Pearson Plc, can
detect erasures and raise a red flag if there are an unusually
high number, especially of wrong-to-right switches. Other
indicators of potential trouble include a single class or grade
vastly outperforming the others at a school; a prevalence of
identical answers, wrong and right, within a class; and large
numbers of students doing better on the harder questions of an
exam than on the easier ones.  While the testing companies are able to supply all this
data, many states do not ask for it or fail to look into
suspicious results -- after all, nobody likes to seek out bad
news. Investigations by private companies can cost thousands of
dollars per school and subject principals and teachers to
uncomfortable questioning. Unfortunately, recent history shows
just how necessary they are.  As a prod, any legislative reform should tweak the NCLB
act’s grant-making to reward states that are more active on
cheating prevention. It should also ensure that schools return
any money they received for gains that they didn’t truly achieve
and that states provide avenues for whistleblowers to come
forward.  In the end, it is in a state’s interest to nip cheating in
the bud -- if left unchecked, it will fester, leading to a
scandal that can scar a school district for a generation. Just
ask the parents in Atlanta.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 