-- 
NuPathe Sinks After Failing to Win U.S. Approval for First Migraine Patch

-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 
2011-08-30T20:45:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/nupathe-sinks-after-failing-to-win-u-s-approval-for-first-migraine-patch.html
NuPathe Inc. (PATH) , a maker of
neurological and psychiatric medicines, fell 35 percent in New
York trading after failing to win U.S. approval for the first
skin patch to treat migraines.  NuPathe slid $1.40 to $2.65 at 4 p.m. on the Nasdaq Stock
Market. The  Food and Drug Administration  requested more
information about the treatment aimed at helping patients who
have trouble swallowing pills because of nausea, Conshohocken,
Pennsylvania-based NuPathe said today in a statement.  The sumatriptan patch, named Zelrix, was expected to
produce peak annual sales of $250 million, or about 3 percent of
the market for triptan migraine medications, Elliot Wilbur, an
analyst with Needham & Co. in New York, wrote Aug. 16 in a note
to clients. NuPathe rose 11 percent yesterday to $4.05, down
from $9.61 on its first day of trading in August 2010.  “The agency acknowledged that NuPathe established the
efficacy of the migraine patch in the overall migraine
population,” the company said. The FDA’s response letter
“primarily contained chemistry, manufacturing and safety
questions, which the company believes it has, or shortly will
have, sufficient data to address.”  The success of Zelrix will depend on adequate
reimbursement, Wilbur wrote.  Market Limits  “The availability of numerous inexpensive generic forms of
migraine therapy products could limit acceptance of Zelrix with
patients and within the medical community,” he said.  The patch works by delivering sumatriptan, the most-
prescribed migraine medication, through a mild electrical
current. Migraine is a neurological disorder that affects about
31 million adults in the U.S., NuPathe said.  A one-year, 183-patient study on the migraine patch
 released  in October revealed 58 percent experienced headache
pain relief and 79 percent were nausea-free, the company said.  NuPathe entered into an agreement with Aspire Capital Fund
to purchase as much as $30 million of the specialty drugmaker’s
common stock during the next two years. Chicago-based Aspire
made an initial investment of $500,000, NuPathe said in a
 statement  Aug. 2.  The agreement “provides capital flexibility” and secures
financing for a Zelrix introduction, Annabel Samimy, an analyst
at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in  New York , wrote Aug. 16 in a note to
clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 