-- 
Obama Says Military Veterans’ Programs Will Be Preserved in Budget Fight

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-08-30T17:05:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/obama-says-military-veterans-programs-will-be-preserved-in-budget-fight.html
President  Barack Obama  told a
military veterans group that he’ll maintain funding for their
health and welfare programs amid the drive to cut the federal
deficit.  “We’re facing some tough choices as we put our fiscal
house in order,” Obama said in remarks at the  American Legion’s 
93rd National Convention in  Minneapolis . “I want to be
absolutely clear: We cannot, we must not, we will not balance
the budget on the backs of our veterans.”  The president said the nation is “still digging out” from
the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression and “it’s
taking longer and been more difficult than any of us imagined.”  “We have to create more jobs, and do it faster,” said
Obama, who plans next week to outline a set of proposals to spur
hiring. “Most of all, we have to break the gridlock in
 Washington  that’s been preventing us from taking the action we
need to get this economy moving.”  Even with the nation’s fiscal challenges, he said, the
U.S. must make sure it’s “taking care of our veterans as well
as you’ve taken care of us.”  Deficit Debate  When Congress returns next week, lawmakers and the
administration will be debating ways to cut the nation’s long-
term debt, including defense spending. The administration is
reviewing how to slash $420 billion in national security
spending, including $330 billion from the Pentagon budget over
10 years.  As part of legislation Obama signed into law earlier this
month, the Defense Department would be subject to an additional
$500 billion in automatic spending cuts unless a bipartisan
supercommittee can agree on a plan to reduce the government’s
deficit by $1.5 trillion over 10 years.  Future military pay and benefits are being reviewed as
Pentagon officials seek cuts. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  has
called the automatic cuts a “kind of doomsday mechanism” that
could “result in a further round of very dangerous cuts across
the board.”  The Defense Department requested $671 billion for the
fiscal year starting Oct. 1, including $117.8 billion for the
wars in  Iraq  and Afghanistan.  Obama, who will attend ceremonies this year in  New York ,
 Pennsylvania  and Washington for the 10th anniversary of the
Sept. 11 attacks, said the nation must honor, along with the
victims, the sacrifices of those who went to war after the
terrorists struck.  “Never before has our nation asked so much of our all-
volunteer force -- that 1 percent of Americans who wears the
uniform,” he said.  War Casualties  As of yesterday, 1,742 U.S. military personnel have been
killed in  Afghanistan  since the war began in 2001 and 13,447
have been wounded, according to the  Pentagon.  There have been
4,477 U.S. military personnel killed in Iraq since the war began
in 2003 and 32,175 wounded.  “Despite 10 years of continuous war, it must be said,
America’s military is the best it’s ever been,” he said. “It
will continue to be the best.”  Obama said his administration has made the welfare of
veterans and their families a top priority across the federal
government, not just for the departments of Defense and  Veterans
Affairs .  The president also highlighted efforts to assist veterans
find jobs when they leave the armed forces, including education
and training assistance and initiatives to encourage the hiring
of veterans by government agencies and private businesses. Among
those is a proposed tax credit for companies that hire
unemployed veterans with disabilities.  The  American Legion  has more than 2.4 million members
making it the largest veteran’s service organization in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  