-- 
Obama May Back Hiring Credit, Construction Spending to Spur Jobs

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-08-30T04:01:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/obama-may-back-hiring-credit-infrastructure-spending-yet-fall-shy-on-jobs.html
The ideas President Barack Obama is
considering for his new jobs agenda could put hundreds of
thousands of people back to work, and still have a limited
impact in an economy that remains 6.8 million jobs behind its
pre-recession peak, economists said.  Among the options Obama is considering is a version of a
tax credit for new hires that could spur the creation of 900,000
additional jobs at a cost of $30 billion, according to an
estimate by Michael Greenstone, an economics professor at the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology  and former chief economist
for Obama’s  Council of Economic Advisers .  “It allows the private sector to lead the economy toward
the areas where the payoffs are greatest,” Greenstone said.  In discussions with the president, Obama’s economic team
has strongly backed a tax incentive for new hires, said a person
familiar with the deliberations.  Even so, the president’s capacity to dramatically improve
the economy is limited after an $830 billion fiscal stimulus and
almost three years of accommodative monetary policy from the
 Federal Reserve . Obama also confronts political constraints from
Republicans in Congress opposed to further federal spending.  “The broad honest answer is that there’s a limited amount
that he can do that I know of,” said Martin Neil Baily, a
former chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers under
President  Bill Clinton . “We’ve kind of done a lot of the things
we know how to do.”  Worker Retraining  The White House is considering more infrastructure
spending, tax incentives to spur hiring, a reduction in the
employer portion of the payroll tax credit and changes to
 unemployment insurance  to subsidize worker retraining for
inclusion in a jobs plan Obama is to announce next week, said a
person familiar with the discussions.  Obama said at a White House ceremony yesterday he will use
the moment to lay out proposals “to put more money in the
pockets of working families and middle-class families, to make
it easier for small businesses to hire people, to put
construction crews to work rebuilding our nation’s roads and
railways and airports and all the other measures that can help
to grow this economy.”  Obama has spent much of the year pressing Congress to act
on a familiar set of plans: renewal of a two-percentage-point
cut in the employee-paid portion of the  payroll tax  and extended
 unemployment benefits , which are both scheduled to expire on
Dec. 31; establishment of an infrastructure bank to fund public
works spending; ratification of free-trade deals; and
overhauling  patent law . Obama has said those also will remain
priorities.  Jobless Rate  More than two years after the recession’s official end, the
jobless rate held at 9.1 percent in July, just one percentage
point below its 10.1 percent peak in October 2009. Concern about
the economy has increased in recent months as growth weakened
during the first half of the year to its slowest pace of the
recovery and financial markets turned tumultuous amid worries
about the European debt crisis.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week at
the central bank’s annual  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , symposium that
U.S. growth “has, for the most part, been at rates insufficient
to achieve sustained reductions in unemployment.”  Joel Prakken , senior managing director of Macroeconomic
Advisers LLC in  St. Louis , said he doesn’t “have high hopes --
really any hopes” of a significant boost to economic growth
from Obama’s new jobs agenda.  Weak Private Sector  “We just don’t think that can make up for the fact that in
the private sector demand is so weak right now,” said Prakken,
who published an Aug. 24 analysis of Obama’s options based on
media reports of items under consideration.  Still, Greenstone said, “The right test is not whether
they will solve the overall unemployment crisis but whether they
will improve the lives of hundreds of thousands of families, and
these programs can do that.”  A $5,000 tax credit for new hires combined with a five-
percentage-point reduction in payroll taxes on the net increase
wages paid by a business would stimulate 900,000 additional new
jobs, according to his analysis. The tax break would also wind
up subsidizing about 5.1 million new hires that Greenstone
forecasts will occur without the incentives. Consequently, the
cost per additional job would be about $35,000 apiece, he said.  The White House hasn’t disclosed how a tax incentive for
new hires would be structured, and its impact and cost would
depend on details such as the amount of a credit.  Infrastructure Spending  While government-funded infrastructure spending would
directly add jobs and boost overall economic growth, public
works programs take time to ramp up and so would their impact on
hiring, Prakken said. Even though Obama’s 2009 economic stimulus
concentrated on “shovel-ready” projects, it was criticized for
delays in getting people back to work.  Prakken estimates a $50 billion public construction program
could only complete about $7.5 billion in work the first year.
He estimates that would create 75,000 jobs in the first year and
peak employment of about 125,000 in the second and third years.
That is about the same as the average monthly growth in payrolls
so far this year.  Jared Bernstein , Vice President  Joe Biden ’s former chief
economic adviser and now a fellow at the Center for Budget and
Policy Priorities, said a public works program targeted at
refurbishing dilapidated schools could have greater immediate
impact.  Bernstein said low-income school districts have a deep
backlog of repairs needed. Work such as roof repairs,
insulation, weatherization and window replacement require more
workers than most infrastructure spending, he added.  He estimates $50 billion spent on school renovations could
create 500,000 jobs within 12 to 24 months.  John Makin, an economist at the  American Enterprise
Institute , a Washington policy research group that supports low
taxes and market-driven policies, said he doubted any of the
measures would lead to a sustained improvement in employment.  “These short-term stimulus measures haven’t been
working,” Makin said. “When you take them away, growth goes
back down again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington D.C. at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 