-- 
Business Groups Say Labor Board Actions Jeopardize Job Creation

-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 
2011-08-31T04:00:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/obama-s-labor-board-reverses-bush-union-rule.html
The  National Labor Relations Board ,
in two decisions backed by unions, overturned a Bush-era ruling
on organizing and supported efforts to form smaller bargaining
units in the health-care industry  U.S. business groups. led by retailers and manufacturers.
and a Republican U.S. House member said the decisions released
yesterday are a reward to labor groups for political support
that will derail economic growth and stifle  job creation .  “The NLRB is pursuing an agenda that undermines the very
job growth our economy sorely needs,” Katherine Lugar,
executive vice president of the Retail Industry Leaders
Association that includes  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD)  and  Target Corp. (TGT) 
among members, said yesterday in a statement.  The panel overturned a ruling under President  George W. Bush  that made it easier for employers to challenge union
organizing. The board also backed efforts to create smaller
units in health-care companies. The rulings were issued four
days after Wilma Liebman, President  Barack Obama ’s chairman,
ended her term.  “We certainly advocated for this,” Nancy Schiffer,
associate general counsel for the AFL-CIO, the largest U.S.
labor federation, said of the two decisions in an interview.  The NLRB actions “have the high likelihood to be severely
disruptive to the workplace, will hinder job creation and put
jobs at risk,” Joe Trauger, vice president of human-resource
policy at the Washington-based manufacturers’ group, said today
in an e-mail.  U.S. employers’ ability to challenge union organizing
efforts will be stifled while employees lose their right to
choose joining a union, Representative  John Kline , a Minnesota
Republican and chairman of the House Education and the Workforce
Committee, said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Wreaks Havoc’  “In one fell blow, the NLRB has overruled years of labor
policy in an underhanded scheme designed to please its powerful
Big Labor allies,” Kline said. “President Obama can no longer
stand idle as his labor board wreaks havoc on the nation’s
workforce.”  The board in a 3-1 decision agreed to let certified nursing
assistants at a property owned by a unit of  Kindred Healthcare
Inc. (KND)  make up a bargaining group without including all other non-
professional workers.  The decision, aimed at health-care facilities, will permit
unions to create bargaining units with fewer members, such as
poker dealers among casino workers and chicken-wrappers at a
meatpacking plant, the Chamber said. Republican board member
 Brian Hayes  dissented from the ruling released yesterday.  ‘Easy Access’  “This change in the law allows easy access by organized
labor into an employer,” Peter Schaumber, former Republican
chairman under Bush, said yesterday in an e-mail. “It increases
union power enormously because the union can pick a tiny group
of employees who if they went out on strike could bring the
employer’s operations to a halt.”  The board overturned a 2007 ruling that had made it easier
to throw out a union. The prior decision, in a case involving
auto-parts maker Dana Corp., allowed an immediate challenge to a
union’s status as a bargaining agent by 30 percent of a
company’s employees or by a rival union. The decision created a
45-day window to contest the union.  The ruling yesterday in a case involving Houston-based
Lamons Gasket Co. “restores 40 years of precedent only recently
struck down by the notoriously anti-worker Bush board,”
Kimberly Freeman Brown, executive director of American Rights at
Work, a pro-union group based in  Washington , said in an e-mailed
statement. The decision “is nothing more than a return to a
process for voluntary recognition that for years worked just
fine for employers and employees alike.”  Time, Money  Ronald Meisburg, the NLRB general counsel until he departed
in 2010, said in an e-mail that reversing the Dana rule is a
“backward step on the principle of employee free choice,”
because the 2007 decision allowed for a secret-ballot vote when
an employer voluntarily recognized a union. The decision in
organizing in the health-care industry will require employers to
spend more time and money dealing with a multiplicity of
bargaining unions and unions.  “It will promote labor unrest instead of labor peace,” he
said.  Liebman’s departure leaves the board with two Democrats,
Mark Pearce, who is designated as chairman, and  Craig Becker ,
along with Hayes. The term of Becker, a former lawyer for the
AFL-CIO and Service Employees International Union, will expire
in December, leaving too few board members to make decisions.  One seat is vacant because the Senate hasn’t acted on
confirming Obama’s nominee to that slot. The U.S. Supreme Court
ruled last year that a two-member board can’t issue rulings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  