-- 
Ohio Referendum on Union Restrictions Is a Go After Kasich’s Gambit Fails

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e   a n d   M a r g a r e t   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-08-30T15:51:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/ohio-referendum-on-union-restrictions-is-a-go-after-kasich-s-gambit-fails.html
Ohio  voters will decide whether to
keep a law limiting collective bargaining for public employees
after efforts by Ohio Governor  John Kasich  to strike a deal to
get the measure off the ballot failed.  Midnight yesterday was the deadline to remove the
referendum from the Nov. 8 ballot, and no action was taken, Matt
McClellan, a spokesman for Secretary of State  Jon Husted , said
by telephone from Columbus today. The campaign is on, Kasich
said.  “We’re just going to go to November, and it’ll be a robust
campaign on both sides, I’m sure,” Kasich, 59, a first-term
Republican, said during an interview that aired today on
Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness with Margaret Brennan.”  We Are Ohio , a coalition of labor officials and Democrats,
is ready for the fight to kill the measure, said the
spokeswoman, Melissa Fazekas.  “We’re excited to give the 1.3 million people who signed a
petition to repeal Senate Bill 5 an opportunity to vote ‘no’ in
November,” Fazekas said in a telephone interview today from
Columbus.  After Kasich signed the law March 31 that allows 360,000
public employees to negotiate only for wages, hours and work
conditions and sets minimums for pension and health-care
contributions, he has tried to negotiate a deal with the public
unions to avoid a divisive ballot fight. Both sides have said
they expect millions to be spent on the campaign.  Repeal First  The governor said he supported private discussions in June
with labor leaders, and when those proved fruitless, he held
news conferences Aug. 17 and Aug. 19 urging opponents to
compromise. They refused unless Kasich and Republican
legislative leaders first repealed the law.  The law, similar to one backed by Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker  that sparked days of protests at the Capitol in Madison
and demonstrations in Columbus, is on hold pending the Nov. 8
vote.  Kasich said he worries about the impact that a “big
battle” with public unions and repeal of the law might have.  “I get a little bit concerned about the brand of Ohio,
because companies are always looking in terms of where they can
have a workforce that works with them,” Kasich said.  The collective-bargaining law for public workers that has
been in place in Ohio since 1983 has worked, and Kasich and
Republicans pushed to change it, Fazekas said.  “This fight was brought to us,” she said. “This wasn’t
something that employees, workers sought out.”  The law is needed to help governments control costs and is
about “fairness to taxpayers,” Kasich told Bloomberg
Television. Opponents of the law including We Are Ohio have said
it is an overreach in an effort to bust unions and limit their
support of Democratic candidates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus, Ohio, at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  