-- 
Olympic Village Said to Plan Selling 20% of Properties to Overseas Buyers

-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-08-30T12:52:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/olympic-village-said-to-plan-selling-20-of-properties-to-overseas-buyers.html
The two companies that purchased
1,439 homes in  London ’s Olympic Park may sell as much as a fifth
of the properties to overseas investors, according to two people
with knowledge of the situation.  U.K. developer Delancey and a division of Qatar’s sovereign
wealth fund intend to sell approximately 300 of the homes
abroad, according to the people, who declined to be named
because they’re not permitted to speak publicly. The remaining
units will be rented out, they said.  Delancey and Qatari Diar Real Estate Investment Co. this
month agreed to pay 557 million pounds ($909 million) for the
homes in the athlete’s village and the right to build as many as
2,000 more units on the site in London’s East End district,
according to an Aug. 12 statement from the buyers.  “The majority of properties will be held for rental and
the remainder will be released for sale on the open market,”
said Jamie Robertson, a spokesman for closely held Delancey.
“It’s too early in the process to be any more specific but
further information will be released at the appropriate time.”  Qatari Diar didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment.  London 2012 Olympic officials are finding ways to convert
and sell facilities built for the 2012 Games after previous host
cities such as Athens were left with unused or underutilized
properties. The Olympic Village, which cost 1.1 billion pounds
to build, will house 17,000 athletes and officials across 67
acres (27 hectares), the U.K. government said in May 2009.  The purchase of the athlete’s village includes the long-
term management of the site, the buyers said in the August
statement. The government will get a share of any profits from
the development, they said, without being more specific.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 