-- 
Home Prices in U.S. Probably Fell as Real Estate Hindered Economic Rebound

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-08-30T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/home-prices-in-u-s-probably-fell-as-real-estate-hindered-economic-rebound.html
Residential real estate prices
probably dropped in the year ended June by the most in 19
months, indicating the housing market continues to hamper the
U.S. recovery, economists said before a report today.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of home values in 20 cities fell
4.6 percent from June 2010, the biggest 12-month decrease since
November 2009, according to the median forecast of 31 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Another report may show  consumer
confidence  sank in August to the lowest level in 10 months.  Any recovery in home values is probably years away as
foreclosures dump more properties onto to the market, while a
jobless rate hovering around 9 percent and strict lending rules
hurt sales. Declining home equity combined with the slump in
stock prices this month is damaging household wealth, raising
the risk that spending will falter.  “There are just too many factors that will continue to
drag home prices down,” said  Patrick Newport , an economist at
IHS Global Insight in Lexington,  Massachusetts . “We still have
a lot of foreclosures in the pipeline, a lot of excess supply,
and demand for homes is continuing to weaken.”  The S&P/Case-Shiller index, based on a three-month average,
is due at 9 a.m. New York time. Survey estimates ranged from
decreases of 4 percent to 5.5 percent, after a 4.5 percent drop
in the year ended May. The group will also release national
figures on real estate values for the second quarter.  Month-to-Month  Home prices  were probably unchanged in June from the prior
month after falling less than 0.1 percent in May, according to
the Bloomberg survey’s median estimate, a sign the deterioration
in prices may be abating. The year-over-year gauges,
nonetheless, provide better indications of trends, according to
the S&P/Case-Shiller group.  With joblessness stuck near 9 percent for a second year,
housing has not recovered at the same rate as the rest of the
U.S. Existing home sales fell to 4.91 million last year, the
lowest level since 1997.  The housing slump, paired with a lackluster labor market,
has hurt sentiment among households. The New York-based
Conference Board’s consumer confidence gauge, due at 10 a.m.,
fell to 52 in August, the lowest since October, from 59.5 in
July, according to the survey median. Projections ranged from 40
to 57.  “Consumer confidence is still weak, and the housing sector
remains in a fragile state,” Robert Toll, chairman of  Toll
Brothers Inc. (TOL) , the largest U.S. luxury homebuilder, said in an
Aug. 24 call with analysts. “The nation’s economy continues to
suffer from the lack of jobs in housing construction and the
related manufacturing and service sectors that a decent new-home
market would typically generate.”  Builder Shares  Shares of residential real estate developers have
underperformed the broader stock market since the end of May,
showing investors are concerned a slowing economy will be
detrimental to the industry. The Standard & Poor’s
Supercomposite Homebuilder Index of 12 builders dropped 26
percent through yesterday, compared with a 10 percent decrease
for the broader  S&P 500 Index .  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , speaking last
week in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , said “an overhang of distressed
and foreclosed properties, tight credit conditions for builders
and potential homebuyers, and ongoing concerns by both potential
borrowers and lenders about continued house price declines”
have held back the housing market.  During the speech, Bernanke said the economy will probably
improve in the second half of 2011, adding the central bank can
aid the recovery if needed. Housing will stabilize, “if for no
other reason than that ongoing population growth and household
formation will ultimately demand it,” the chairman said.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  