-- 
BofA Sued by Homeowners Seeking to Block $8.5 Billion Mortgage-Bond Accord

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-08-31T00:55:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/homeowners-sue-to-block-8-5-billion-bofa-mortgage-settlement.html
Investors and federal regulators are
demanding more information about  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s effort
to resolve mortgage liabilities with an $8.5 billion settlement.  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., the Federal Housing
Finance Agency, pension funds and other investors filed
objections to the agreement demanding more information to
evaluate the deal. Today was the deadline for objections under a
court order.  A group of homeowners separately sued Bank of America in
federal court, seeking to block the settlement, saying terms
related to the servicing of mortgage loans will accelerate home
foreclosures.  The objections create more obstacles for Bank of America as
it seeks court approval for the settlement to resolve claims
from investors in Countrywide Financial Corp. mortgage bonds. It
acquired Countrywide in 2008.  The settlement was negotiated with a group of institutional
investors, including BlackRock Inc. and Pacific Investment
Management Co., and would apply to investors outside that group.  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , the trustee for the
mortgage-securitization trusts covered by the agreement, has
asked a New York state judge to approve the settlement in
November. New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  has asked
the judge to reject the deal and said in court papers that he
has potential claims against Bank of America. An investor group,
meanwhile, is seeking to move the case to federal court.  Trustee Acted Reasonably  “We believe that the trustee acted reasonably in entering
into the settlement, and that there are compelling reasons why
the agreement should receive judicial approval.” Lawrence Grayson, a Bank of America spokesman, said in an e-mail. He
declined to comment on the homeowner lawsuit.  BNY Mellon spokesman Kevin Heine declined to comment on the
objections.  The agreement, which depends on a judge’s approval, is
important for Bank of America to put its mortgage liabilities
behind it,  Paul Miller , an analyst at FBR Capital Markets, said
in an interview.  “I think there’s a possibility it gets thrown out,” he
said. “But I don’t know to handicap that.”  Those filing objections include  American International
Group Inc. (AIG) , the  Federal Home Loan Banks  of Boston,  Chicago  and
 San Francisco , the Maine State Retirement System, and the
National Credit Union Administration, a federal agency that is
the liquidating agent for five corporate credit unions.  ‘Unable to Evaulate’  “Investors are unable to evaluate the fairness of the
allocation of the settlement proceeds,” the Maine retirement
system said.  The FDIC, the receiver for failed banks, said it owns
securities covered by the settlement. Andrew Gray, an FDIC
spokesman, said in an e-mail that the filing is a notice to
preserve its right to make claims as a part of the settlement
and seeks additional information.  “It is not an evaluation or opinion on the settlement
itself,” he said.  The FHFA, which regulates mortgage finance companies  Fannie
Mae  and Freddie Mac, said in a statement that it was also
seeking more information and “is aware of no basis upon which
it would raise a substantive objection to the proposed
settlement at this time.”  The case is Bank of  New York  Mellon v. Walnut Place LLC,
11-cv-5988, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ). The homeowner lawsuit is Iesu v. Bank of New York
Mellon, 11-6078, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  