-- 
On Company Taxes, U.S. Should Follow World Down: Ramesh Ponnuru

-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 
2011-08-30T00:00:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/on-company-taxes-u-s-should-follow-world-down-ramesh-ponnuru.html
Nations don’t compete with one
another the way companies do. Pepsi’s gain is almost always
Coca-Cola’s loss, but the same doesn’t always, or even
often, hold true for national economies. Governments do
compete in some respects: They want to attract  capital
investment  to their countries, for example, to provide more
jobs, higher wages and better products and services to
their people.  That competition offers a reason for optimism that the
 U.S. Congress  will eventually reform our inefficient,
investment-destroying corporate taxes.  There’s already bipartisan support for such reform.
 John McCain  campaigned on it in 2008, and President  Barack Obama  plumped for it in his most recent  State of the Union 
address. Representative Charles Rangel, Democrat of  New
York , offered a  proposal  that would have pared corporate
tax rates and limited deductions when he was chairman of
the House Ways and Means Committee. The Bowles-Simpson
fiscal-reform commission recommended similar measures, and
Senators  Ron Wyden , Democrat of  Oregon , and  Dan Coats ,
Republican of  Indiana , have introduced legislation to
reduce corporate tax rates.  But there’s still resistance. Trimming corporate tax
rates is a hard sell for a lot of congressional Democrats.
Businesses are divided: Some would lose more in tax breaks
than they would gain in lower rates under any revenue-
neutral reform.  Lots of Loopholes  And whether our corporate taxes are high or low
compared with other countries is still a matter of debate.
The top statutory rate is 35 percent; add the 4 percent
average state tax and we have the highest rate of any
developed country. But our code also has a lot of
loopholes, so some observers claim that in practice our
corporate taxes are low. They point out, accurately, that
corporate tax revenues are a smaller proportion of the
economy than in other countries, and have grown smaller
over time.  But two other measures are more relevant. Earlier this
year,  Kevin Hassett  and Aparna Mathur -- economists
affiliated with the  American Enterprise Institute  --
 calculated  the effective average corporate  tax rate  for all
advanced economies. That’s the rate that, according to an
earlier study, has the most impact on where companies
decide to invest. Their results: Our rate in 2010 was 29.5
percent, while other members of the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development averaged 20.5 percent.
(A similar calculation by the  World Bank  reached a similar
 conclusion .)  A Tax Outlier  They also calculated these countries’ effective
marginal tax rates to determine how their tax codes
affected decisions to expand investments. Again, the U.S.
rate was higher than the OECD average. Our rate was 23.6,
compared with 17.2 for other advanced economies.  We weren’t always an outlier. And we didn’t become one
by raising corporate tax rates. Ours have been frozen while
other countries reduced theirs. That’s how we went from
having an average rate to having the second-highest in the
developed world. Only  Japan ’s is higher -- and it was on
track to cut its rate until the March earthquake and
tsunami prompted a delay. We may soon be No. 1.  Corporate People  But this is a type of American exceptionalism we
shouldn’t cherish. Controversy over whether our corporate
taxes are high or low is matched by controversy over who
pays them in the first place. This issue recently made the
news when Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney 
informed a heckler that people pay the corporate income
tax. But which people? The  Congressional Budget Office  and
the Treasury Department have traditionally assumed that
owners of capital pay the tax. More recent models, though,
emphasize that if capital can cross borders, it’s labor
that gets stuck paying the tax. Capital moves to countries
where it is taxed less. Less capital investment here leaves
Americans with lower-wage jobs.  Empirical work on the subject has yielded a wide range
of outcomes. At the low end of  estimates , three economists
led by  Mihir Desai  have found that 45 percent of the
corporate income tax falls on labor. The high-end estimate
comes from R. Alison Felix, an economist at the  Federal
Reserve Bank of Kansas City , who  concluded  that labor pays
420 percent of the burden: For every dollar of revenue the
tax raises, wages fall by $4.20. A study by the  Tax
Foundation , a nonpartisan think tank, split the difference,
finding that wages drop $2.50 for every dollar raised.  Encouraging Consumption  So it’s fair to conclude that the corporate income tax
lowers wages. And that’s not the only reason to reduce the
tax. As Jonathan Berk explained on Bloomberg View last
week, the corporate tax is highly inefficient. It raises
little revenue. It encourages debt over equity, and some
types of company organization over others, for no good
reason. I would add that corporate taxes, like all taxes on
investment, encourage consumption today over consumption
tomorrow. And its costs are going up as other countries
reduce their corporate taxes.  Occasionally one hears calls for countries to
“harmonize” their rates so that no nation feels any
pressure to cut its tax. But this is just not going to
happen. The more realistic response to the mobility of
capital is the one that other countries, blessed with
politicians who are generally no more far-seeing or
intelligent than ours, have made: reducing their corporate
taxes.  Eventually, we’ll get there too.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist and a senior
editor at National Review. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 