-- 
Big Reason to Shut SEC, Start Over: William D. Cohan

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 
2011-08-30T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/one-more-reason-to-shut-sec-and-start-over-commentary-by-william-d-cohan.html
(Corrects SEC chairman in 2004 to William H. Donaldson in
seventh paragraph.)  Thanks to Darcy Flynn, a longtime
attorney at the Securities and Exchange Commission, we now have
all the ammunition we need to do what should have been done
years ago: terminate the  SEC , with extreme prejudice, and in its
place construct a new regulatory watchdog for  Wall Street  free
of obvious conflicts of interest.  Flynn’s courage has almost been lost in all the recent
apocalyptic talk of earthquakes and hurricanes, but a few weeks
back he did something remarkable. After raising concerns
internally at the SEC last year -- and getting nowhere -- Flynn
went public and alleged in a formal whistleblower complaint that
for at least 17 years the SEC “followed a policy of
systematically destroying documents” related to what are known
as Matters Under Investigation, or MUIs, most of which were
focused on possibly illicit or illegal behavior at Wall Street
firms. MUIs are the first step in investigating a case that may
lead to a formal SEC inquiry.  Flynn alleged the MUIs were destroyed after the cases were
closed when they should have been retained. He catalogued his
complaints in a letter to Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa
Republican and the ranking member of the Senate Judiciary
Committee. Grassley  wrote  to  Mary Schapiro , the head of the SEC,
asking her to respond to him about Flynn’s allegations by
tomorrow. She hasn’t yet done so as of yesterday.  In his letter to Grassley, Flynn alleged that the SEC had
destroyed documents related to MUIs involving  Bernard Madoff ;
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s trading in the credit-default swaps
of insurer  American International Group Inc. (AIG) ; “financial
fraud” at  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ; and
“insider-trading investigations” at  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  and SAC Capital Advisors LP.  ‘Doesn’t Make Sense’  “It doesn’t make sense that an agency responsible for
investigations would want to get rid of potential evidence,”
Grassley said in a  press release  that accompanied his letter to
Schapiro. “If these charges are true, the agency needs to
explain why it destroyed documents, how many documents it
destroyed over what timeframe, and to what extent its actions
were consistent with the law.”  This case alone is reason enough to shut the SEC and design
a new agency worthy of its budget of more than $1 billion. But,
of course, there are many more instances of the ineptitude that
makes the SEC so infuriating and ineffectual. Top among them is
the agency’s abject failure during the leadership of former
Representative  Christopher Cox  to hold Wall Street the slightest
bit accountable for its actions.  Cox Run Amok  Cox came to define laissez-faire regulation run amok,
allowing the financial industry to get away with an excess of
abuses, the extent of which may never be fully known, thanks
partly to the SEC’s alleged document destruction. Then there is
William H. Donaldson, Cox’s predecessor. How could Donaldson and
the other SEC commissioners have blithely ruled in 2004 that the
biggest securities firms could dramatically increase the
leverage on their balance sheets without thinking through the
possible ramifications of such enhanced risk -- where a mere 2
percent decline in asset values could wipe out a firm’s equity
cushion? No doubt that decision helped lead to the downfall of
Bear Stearns Cos.,  Lehman Brothers  and Merrill Lynch & Co., and
to the near-failure of both  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Goldman Sachs.
Thanks, Bill.  The SEC has long had a too-cozy relationship with Wall
Street. Witness  Robert Khuzami , the SEC’s director of
enforcement, who used to be the general counsel for the Americas
at Deutsche Bank in  New York , a firm that issued one fatally
flawed mortgage-backed security and collateralized-debt
obligation after another during the early part of the last
decade. (A Senate subcommittee report on the financial crisis
devotes 45 pages to Deutsche Bank’s squirrelly securities
business and the role it played in fomenting the meltdown.)  Targeting Goldman  Is it any surprise that Khuzami set his sights on Goldman
Sachs, rather than on his old company, in trying to create some
accountability for the mortgage mess? Deutsche Bank was a bigger
player in the mortgage-securitization and CDO markets than
Goldman Sachs was, yet it was Goldman that the SEC ended up
going after in April 2010 when the agency filed -- to great
fanfare -- a politically useful civil suit related to a
synthetic CDO that Goldman created and sold in April 2007.
(Deutsche Bank did many similar deals.) Goldman Sachs settled
the accusations in July 2010 for $550 million, more to make the
bad publicity go away than because it did anything different
from any other Wall Street firm.  Obvious Conflict  There’s no evidence of impropriety on Khuzami’s part, but
it should hardly give investors confidence that someone with
such an obvious conflict of interest could bring a suit against
a competitor of his old employer. (Schapiro, meanwhile, was
previously head of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority,
and was paid almost $9 million when she left to join the SEC.)
It goes both ways: For years, top SEC officials have been
turning in their regulatory credentials for compensation
bonanzas at the very companies they were once charged with
overseeing.  Then there’s the SEC’s ongoing obfuscation when it comes to
Freedom of Information Act requests. The SEC is the black hole
of such applications, hanging them up for years and ultimately
ignoring them. This is a violation of trust that threatens our
democracy and makes it difficult for journalists and historians
to figure out what went wrong. Maybe that’s the point.  In Rolling Stone’s Sept. 1 issue, Matt Taibbi broke the
 story  of Darcy Flynn’s complaint against the SEC. It’s worth
reading for its rich detail about what Flynn alleges the SEC has
been doing for decades. And it only reinforces the idea that the
agency is unsalvageable -- and needs to be replaced.  Remade SEC  A new SEC would pay its top officials much higher salaries
(in line with top private-sector attorneys) but not allow any of
them to have previously worked on Wall Street or to go there for
five years after they leave the agency. It would have genuine
law-enforcement power, as opposed to the SEC’s civil-suit-only
mandate, and be able to indict a firm and its top executives for
wrongdoing. In other words, the agency would have the chops to
regulate a powerful industry badly in need of it, free of
conflicts of interest.  It’s now crystal clear -- and beyond unconscionable -- that
the SEC stopped doing its job long ago. We need to rebuild it on
a more secure foundation.  (William D. Cohan, a former investment banker and the
author of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the
World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 