-- 
Mongolia Said to Plan Three City IPO for Tavan Tolgoi Coal Mine in 2012

-- B y   F o x   H u   a n d   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 
2011-08-31T03:24:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/mongolia-said-to-plan-three-city-ipo-for-coal-miner-in-2012.html
Mongolia plans to raise as much as
$3 billion by selling a stake in its Erdenes Tavan Tolgoi coal-
mining company next year in the country’s biggest initial public
offering, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The landlocked nation between China and  Russia  aims to sell
shares in Erdenes TT simultaneously in  London , Hong Kong and
Ulaanbaatar in the first half of next year, said the people, who
declined to be identified as the information is private. The IPO
may raise $2 billion to $3 billion, they said.  Erdenes TT would be the first company to go public in the
three cities at the same time, as Mongolia capitalizes on a
mining boom driven by demand from China and  India . The IPO would
be as much as four times the size of Mongolian Mining Corp.’s
HK$5.8 billion ($744 million) initial share sale in Hong Kong
last October.  By selling shares locally as well as in  Hong Kong  and
London, Mongolia aims to let domestic investors participate in
the IPO, the people said.  Mongolia’s MSE Top 20 Index jumped 17-fold in the past five
years, making it the best performer among 92 benchmark stock
measures globally tracked by Bloomberg. The local currency, the
tugrik, has strengthened 4.8 percent against the dollar in the
last 12 months.  The total market capitalization of the  Mongolian stock
exchange  was about 2 trillion tugriks ($1.6 billion) as of July
25, according to data on the bourse’s website. Hong Kong’s
exchange,  Asia ’s third largest, was valued at $2.56 trillion
that day.  Production Doubles  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  will manage
the IPO for Erdenes TT, while  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA,  Macquarie Group
Ltd. (MQG)  will also help arrange it, the people said. Dulam Sugar,
chairman of Mongolia’s State Property Committee, which oversees
the development of Tavan Tolgoi’s coal deposits, didn’t
immediately respond to a phone call and an e-mail seeking
comment yesterday.  Mongolia’s coal production doubled last year to 25 million
metric tons to become the nation’s top export earner, spurring
the government to push through development of mines. Tavan
Tolgoi spans some 68,000 hectares (168,000 acres), with coking
coal used in steelmaking located mainly in the central Tsankhi
area, according to Erdenes MGL, the state-controlled owner of
the deposit.  Mongolia needs to look beyond the coal and copper mines
that are driving its economic boom to find a more balanced model
of growth, Prime Minister Sukhbaatar Batbold said in an
interview on March 8.  In July, the Mongolian government picked  China  Shenhua
Energy Co., Peabody Energy Corp. and a Russian-Mongolian group
to develop the Tavan Tolgoi deposit. A Shenhua-led group will
get a 40 percent share in the project, while Peabody will hold
24 percent and the Russian-Mongolian venture 36 percent,
according to a July 4 statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cathy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net ;
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  