-- 
Monster, LinkedIn Shares Climb on Speculation That Job Market Is Improving

-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-08-30T22:07:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/monster-worldwide-advances-most-since-october-to-lead-s-p-500-index-gains.html
Monster Worldwide Inc. (MWW)  and LinkedIn
Corp., two of the biggest websites devoted to career
development, rose on speculation that an improving economy and
federal stimulus plans will spur job searches.  Monster shares jumped 21 percent, the most in 10 months,
making it the biggest gainer in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.
Three top executives, led by Chief Executive Officer Salvatore Iannuzzi, reported buying a combined 87,237 shares in filings
today, helping stoke the increase. LinkedIn rose 6 percent.  Investors are betting that an improving employment outlook,
coupled with President Barack Obama’s jobs plan, will boost
hiring and demand for Internet services. Obama plans to give a
speech after the Sept. 5 Labor Day holiday on his proposal,
which includes efforts to boost small-business hiring. Some
Federal Reserve policy makers also are pushing for more
aggressive action to stimulate the economy.  “The stocks had embedded a high probability of entering a
recession, but have been rebounding along with the market on the
hopes that we will be able to avoid the recession,” said Tim McHugh, an analyst with William Blair & Co., who rates both
stocks “market perform” and doesn’t own them. “The companies
could benefit from economic stimulus or a jobs program.”  ‘Overdue for a Bounce’  Monster, the world’s biggest online-recruiting company, was
“overdue for a bounce” after other Internet companies surged
in recent weeks, said Douglas Arthur, an analyst at Evercore
Partners Inc. in  New York . He rates the stock “equalweight.”
Shares of LinkedIn, a social-networking site for professionals,
had already jumped 11 percent yesterday.  “Business in online job trends is actually getting better
and with greater intensity, and earnings are better,” Arthur
said in an interview. “And yet the stock has been down.”  Monster shares, down 65 percent this year before today,
rose $1.75 to $9.91 at 4 p.m. on the New York Stock Exchange.
LinkedIn increased $4.95 to $87.49.  Matthew Henson, a spokesman for New York-based Monster,
didn’t immediately have a comment. Hani Durzy, a spokesman for
 Mountain View , California-based LinkedIn, didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment.  Other job-related companies also saw gains.  Menlo Park ,
California-based  Robert Half International Inc. (RHI)  climbed 50
cents, or 2.1 percent, to $23.93. Shares of Milwaukee-based
 Manpower Inc. (MAN) , increased 76 cents, or 1.9 percent, to $40.05.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  