-- 
Oracle Accuses Hewlett-Packard of Fraud, Libel in Cross-Complaint Lawsuit

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-08-30T20:55:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/oracle-accuses-hewlett-packard-of-fraud-libel-in-cross-complaint-lawsuit.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  accused Hewlett-Packard
Co. of fraud and libel, saying a settlement agreement between
the two companies over Oracle’s hiring of former HP chief Mark Hurd was unfair and that HP defamed Oracle with allegations that
the company bullies its customers.  The accusations came in counter claims by Oracle in a
pending HP lawsuit filed in June. HP has accused Oracle of
moving from partner to “bitter antagonist” by hiring away its
chief executive officer and withdrawing support for its database
software on HP computers that use the Itanium chip.  In today’s filing in  California  state court in San Jose,
Oracle alleged that HP fraudulently hid that it was planning to
hire current Chief Executive Officer  Leo Apotheker  and board
chairman Ray Lane, who were “toxic” to any partnership with
Oracle, when it forged a settlement with Oracle over its hiring
of Hurd.  Oracle, based in Redwood City, California, also alleged
that HP has disrupted Oracle’s relationships with its customers.  Oracle is seeking to rescind the Hurd settlement agreement
and a court order prohibiting Palo Alto, California-based HP
from making false and misleading statements about Oracle’s
business.  “Rather than focusing on what is right for our joint
customers, Oracle is relying on invented excuses to cover up its
blatant disregard for its legal obligations,” HP said in an e-
mailed statement. “HP is resolved to enforcing Oracle’s
commitments to HP and our shared customers and will continue to
take actions to protect its customers’ best interests.”  The case is  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  v. Oracle Corp.,
111CV203163, California Superior Court, Santa Clara County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 