-- 
Paradis Consults Telecoms on Next Canada Spectrum Auction

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 
2011-08-30T19:05:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/paradis-consults-telecoms-on-next-canada-spectrum-auction-rules.html
Canada may release the rules for its
next wireless spectrum auction by the end of the year after
consulting with telecom company executives on how to loosen
foreign-ownership restrictions.  Canadian Industry Minister Christian Paradis met this month
with executives from telecom and cable companies including  BCE
Inc. (BCE) ,  Telus Corp. (T) , Rogers Communications Inc. and  Shaw
Communications Inc. (SJR/B) , his office said. He asked for input on the
spectrum auction, raising expectations the government will set
the rules in the next few months, said  Michael Hennessy , Telus
senior vice president of regulatory affairs.  “The minister and his officials have clearly turned their
attention to this,” Hennessy said in a telephone interview,
referring to the spectrum auction. “It’s one of their
priorities.”  The consultations are also raising expectations the
government will clarify its plans for foreign ownership rules.
In March 2010, Canada  pledged  to open the industry to more
foreign ownership, before then-Industry Minister  Tony Clement 
said in November the government would delay new rules until the
auction of spectrum in the 700 and 2,500 Megahertz bands.  Paradis, who was appointed industry minister in May, also
solicited views on how to change  Canada ’s foreign-ownership
rules, which prevent overseas investors from owning more than 20
percent of telecom carriers, Hennessy said. “There’s a big
question mark about what, if anything, they’re going to do about
foreign ownership.”  Raising Billions  The last  spectrum auction  raised C$4.25 billion ($4.35
billion) for the government. Hennessy said companies would like
the government to resolve the foreign-ownership issue before the
auction, so they can assess the spectrum’s value and plan how
they’re going to finance their bids.  In laying out the auction rules, the government may clarify
whether some of the spectrum will be set aside for new telecom
entrants, as was done in the last auction in 2008.  Anthony Lacavera, chairman of Globalive Holdings, said the
government’s recent emphasis on promoting competition and
lowering consumer prices suggests it will again set aside
spectrum for new entrants. “They are still leaning toward
liberalizing the foreign-ownership laws with respect to
telecommunications,” Lacavera said by telephone.  Overturned Decision  In December 2009, Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s cabinet
overturned a decision by the Canadian Radio-television and
Telecommunications Commission, Canada’s broadcast regulator,
which found Globalive violated foreign-ownership limits.
Globalive, which sells mobile phone services under the Wind
Mobile brand, was backed at the time by Egypt’s Orascom Telecom
Holding SAE, which has since merged with Russia’s VimpelCom Ltd.  Canada had the third-highest prices for mobile-phone
services in the world, according to a 2009  study  by the
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. A 2011
OECD study showed Canada has below-average prices for “heavy
usage” plans offering up to 900 calls per month, and above-
average prices for the lowest-usage plans.  Industry analyst  Dvai Ghose  said he expects the government
to relax foreign-ownership restrictions in telecommunications,
which may pave the way for Bell and Telus to merge.  “If you allow foreigners into our market, it becomes much
more compelling to say we should allow one Canadian champion,”
said Ghose, co-head of Canadian research at Canaccord Genuity.  Ghose also expects the government to make it easier for new
entrants to bid in the airwave auction, either by setting aside
spectrum for smaller companies or by capping how much companies
such as Bell can buy.  “The fear is that there may not be enough capital to
sustain new entrants in Canada,” said Ghose.  A spokeswoman for Paradis, Pascale Boulay, confirmed the
minister has met with 13 companies since Aug. 16, including
Globalive,  Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B)  and Quebecor Inc., which
owns cable provider Videotron Ltee. She declined to elaborate on
the meetings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  