-- 
Pemex Leads Sales Revival as Rate-Cut Bets Rise: Mexico Credit

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-08-30T13:29:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/pemex-leads-sales-revival-as-rate-cut-bets-rise-mexico-credit.html
Mexican local corporate bond sales
are poised to climb to a five-month high in September as
companies from Mexichem SAB to  Petroleos Mexicanos  take
advantage of falling borrowing costs.  Pemex, as  Latin America ’s biggest oil producer is known,
may sell as much as 15 billion pesos ($1.2 billion) of debt next
month, while plastic pipe maker Mexichem plans to offer as much
as 2.5 billion pesos of notes, according to filings with
Mexico’s stock exchange. The sales would make September the
busiest month since April after issuance sank 37 percent in
August, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Russian domestic
corporate offerings fell 67 percent in August to 20 billion
rubles ($694 million), the least in four years.  Mexican companies are lining up to sell debt as speculation
grows that Banco de Mexico, the only major central bank to keep
interest rates unchanged in the past year, will cut them as soon
as December. The yield on  Mexico ’s peso bonds due in 2024, the
benchmark for corporates, plunged 91 basis points in the past
two months to 6.27 percent.  “Companies would end up issuing at the lowest rates
possible,”  Alonso Madero , who helps manage about $5.5 billion
at Corp. Actinver SAB, said in a phone interview from Mexico
City. “This makes a lot of sense for them.”  The yield on rate-futures contracts for December, known as
TIIE, fell 17 basis points, or 0.17 percentage point, in the
past month to 4.70 percent yesterday, indicating traders expect
central bank Governor Agustin Carstens to lower rates as soon as
December from a record-low 4.5 percent.  Slowing Growth  Speculation the central bank will cut benchmark borrowing
costs has grown since policy makers said that they would
“consider the convenience of adjusting” monetary policy should
Mexico’s growth outlook worsened, in a statement after their
Aug. 26 meeting. The bank held the rate steady for the 21st
consecutive meeting.  Banco de Mexico  cut on Aug. 10 its growth forecasts for the
next two years amid slowing expansion in the U.S., which buys 80
percent of the Latin American country’s exports. Mexico’s gross
domestic product will expand as much as 4.8 percent this year,
down from a previous forecast of as much as to 5 percent,
according to the bank.  A press official at the central bank who declined to be
identified didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  Companies are stepping up local debt offerings to lock in
financing amid concern flagging growth and swings in global
equity markets will cause credit markets to seize up, said
Miguel Angel Aguayo, a fixed-income analyst at Grupo Financiero
Banorte-Ixe.  ‘More Complicated’  “Issuers are most likely taking advantage of the moment as
they anticipate an environment in the future that may be more
complicated,” Aguayo said in a phone interview. “There is an
environment for low rates.”  Comision Federal de Electricidad, Ford Motor Co.’s local
unit, and Banco Compartamos SA plan to sell debt as soon as next
month, according to stock exchange filings.  Compartamos, a Mexico City-based bank that lends to people
on low incomes, may offer as much as 2 billion pesos of bonds on
Sept. 21. Comision Federal de Electricidad, the state-run power
company, and Ford didn’t provide dates for proposed offerings or
amounts. Holcim Ltd., the world’s second largest cement maker,
may offer as much as 7 billion pesos of debt, according to
filings.  Pemex’s press department confirmed in an e-mail that the
company plans to sell debt next month.  Press officials from Comision Federal de Electricidad, Ford
and Holcim didn’t immediately return calls for comment.  More Issuance  “We’re looking to diversify our sources of funding,” said
Beatriz Sanchez, a Mexico City-based investor relations officer
with Compartamos, which has two other peso-denominated bonds.
“We feel comfortable with this sale. We think we’re going to
reach our goal” of raising 2 billion pesos, she said.  Mexican companies sold 125.8 billion pesos of debt this
year, up 10 percent from a year earlier, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The 28-day interbank lending rate known as TIIE, a
reference for variable-rate debt, dropped to a record low of
4.78 percent on Aug. 26.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose four basis points
to 204 at 9:28 a.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI
Global index. That compares with a spread of 284 basis points
for  Russia , rated the same level as Mexico at Baa1 by Moody’s
Investors Service, the third-lowest investment grade.  Weakening Peso  The peso weakened 0.2 percent to 12.488 per dollar.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years fell six basis points yesterday to 157, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Investor demand for local corporate debt may weaken should
the outlook for the  U.S. economy  deteriorate further, said
 Alejandro Hernandez , who helps manage about $1.5 billion of debt
at Interacciones Casa de Bolsa SA in Mexico City.  The world’s biggest economy grew 1 percent in the second
quarter, less than previously estimated and capping the weakest
six months of a recovery that began in the middle of 2009, the
U.S. Commerce Department said on Aug. 26.  ‘ Double Dip ’  “There still aren’t clear signs that we aren’t headed to a
double dip,” Hernandez said in a phone interview. “You have to
be very careful about which sectors you invest in. Right now,
I’d only get Pemex and Comision Federal de Electricidad debt.”  The prospect that policy rates will remain low or fall
further in Mexico and the U.S. will prompt more companies to
sell bonds, said Araceli Espinosa, a debt analyst at  Scotia
Capital .  The  Federal Reserve  said on Aug. 9 that it will keep
 interest rates  between zero and 0.25 percent through mid-2013.  “Everyone was waiting for a bit more definition,”
Espinosa said in a phone interview from Mexico City. “It’s now
much clearer that rates are going to stay very low. There’s a
much more stable outlook and that’s going to lead to more
issuance.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  