-- 
Peru Bonds, Stocks, Currency Advance as S&P Raises Foreign Credit Rating

-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-08-31T20:42:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/peru-rating-lifted-to-bbb-at-s-p.html
Peru’s dollar bond yields fell to a
nine-month low while stocks and the currency gained after  Standard &
Poor’s  raised the country’s foreign debt rating.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 6.55 percent dollar-
denominated bond due 2037 fell nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 4.99 percent at 4:20 p.m. New York time.
The bond’s price rose 1.44 cents to 122.36 cents per dollar.  S&P raised Peru to BBB, the second-lowest investment grade,
from BBB- and gave the rating a stable outlook, pointing to
signs President  Ollanta Humala  will continue policies that made
the country the region’s fastest-growing economy.  “The rally in bonds can continue as long as the government
maintains a more or less market-friendly and sensible budget
execution and reform program,” said Jaime Valdivia, who helps
manage $1.4 billion of emerging market assets at Bluecrest
Capital Management in New York. “The upgrade has mostly to do
with what  Peru  has done up to now, and investors will continue
to gauge the depth of the government’s commitment.”  Humala, a former army officer who took office last month,
has pledged to honor investors’ contracts and spur private
investment, distancing himself from vows during the presidential
campaign to expand the government’s control of the economy.
Peru’s currency rose to a three-year high this month after
Humala signaled he will maintain existing economic policies by
reappointing central bank President Julio Velarde and picking
Luis Miguel Castilla, a Harvard University-trained economist, as
finance minister.  “We expect that broad fiscal and monetary policy
continuity under Peruvian President Ollanta Humala’s new
government will support stronger economic policy flexibility and
growth,” S&P’s analysts, including New York-based Richard Francis, said in a statement.  Falling Yields  The yield on Peru’s benchmark dollar bond has fallen 75
basis points since Humala won a June 5 runoff election. The
Andean country’s rating is one step above those of Brazil, Latin
America’s largest economy,  Colombia  and  Panama , which share the
BBB- rating.  “The upgrade represents a challenge for us to retain the
higher rating and secure a further increase,” Castilla told
lawmakers in Congress today.  S&P’s decision’s was influenced by Peru’s agreement with
local mining companies last week on a profit tax that will
potentially generate 3 billion soles ($1.1 billion) of
additional annual revenue for the government, Castilla said.  Peru’s sol strengthened 0.1 percent to 2.7265 per  U.S.
dollar , from 2.7300 yesterday. That’s the currency’s strongest
level since April 2008.  Stocks Advance  The Lima General Index of stocks climbed 3.4 percent to
20,697.11, a four-week high.  Peru’s economic growth averaged 6.4 percent in the past
decade, almost twice as fast as  Brazil , as policy makers tapped
into a global mining boom while curbing inflation and the  budget
deficit . Debt in Peru, the world’s third-largest copper and zinc
producer, amounts to 24 percent of its gross domestic product,
compared with 61 percent in Brazil and 45 percent in Colombia,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors remain concerned that Humala may enact pledges to
change Peru’s constitution to strengthen the government’s role
in industries such as development banking, Valdivia said.  “Peru has all the indicators to have a higher rating, and
the only constraint is that the political institution is
fragile,” said  Pedro Tuesta , a former Peruvian central banker
who is a senior economist at 4cast Inc. in  Washington . “If
investors don’t come back because they are still worried about
the role of the state in the economy, growth may not continue at
6, 7 percent. That’s an ongoing concern.”  Peru, the sixth-largest economy in  Latin America , is still
rated one step below Brazil at  Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s
Investors Service.  2008 Upgrade  S&P raised Peru to BBB- in 2008 and boosted the outlook to
positive from stable in August 2010.  “The government’s commitment to economic stability and a
positive investment climate supports the ratings on Peru,” S&P
said. “We believe that these factors likely will underpin solid
growth through 2013 despite global uncertainties.”  Peru’s local bonds tumbled on June 6 and stocks lost a
record 12.5 percent as Humala’s election victory raised concern
that he’ll boost state control of the country’s oil and gas
reserves and impose a mining windfall tax.  Sol-Bonds Recover  Bonds have since recovered after Humala pledged in his
inaugural speech on July 28 to maintain existing policies that
will encourage private investment in mining and energy projects.
The yield on the benchmark 7.84 percent sol-denominated bond due
August 2020 fell nine basis points to 5.56 percent today,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The rally in Peruvian stocks may continue as the upgrade
“could lure investors to enter a market with strong
fundamentals that has been severely chastised by the bleak
external picture and by the worries of a government that has
proved to be more pragmatic and market friendly than many
initially feared,” said  Roberto Flores , an economist at
Inteligo SAB, a Lima-based brokerage.  The cost of protecting Peruvian bonds against non-payment
for five years fell 5 basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to
161 yesterday, trading in credit-default swaps show. The default
swaps were 9 basis points higher than Brazil’s, narrowing from
68 basis points in April.  The upgrade “represents a vote of confidence in Humala’s
government just a few weeks after his inauguration,” Barclays
Capital Inc. analysts Alejandro Arreaza and Donato Guarino wrote
in a note to investors yesterday. “However, we remain cautious,
expecting significant costs in terms of growth because of the
political shock that the country experienced after his
election.”  S&P yesterday also lifted  Paraguay ’s rating to BB-, three
steps below investment grade, from B+, because an agreement with
Brazil to boost its revenue share from a hydroelectric power
plant has improved the country’s “fiscal flexibility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  