-- 
Picasso, Stein, Dutch Masters Star in Four San Francisco Shows

-- B y   S t e p h e n   W e s t
-- 
2011-08-30T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/picasso-gertrude-stein-dutch-masters-star-in-four-san-francisco-shows.html
A little white dog with black
ears is curled up asleep next to a large clay jar and a
bundle of kindling. His carefully rendered fur seems to
glow against the muted colors of the background.  Gerrit Dou’s “Sleeping Dog” of 1650 is a tiny
painting -- 6.5 by 8.5 inches -- yet it’s also one of the
most memorable in a superb exhibition of 17th-century Dutch
and Flemish art now on view in  San Francisco . Featuring the
collection of Rose-Marie and Eijk van Otterloo, it’s the
latest of four major shows to open in the city this summer.  The works, which show ordinary life closely observed
and often bathed in extraordinary light, features all the
key genres and almost all the big names.  There’s a fine Rembrandt portrait of an old woman in a
black dress with white collar, a moving Hals portrait of a
preacher, a colorful village scene by Brueghel, flower
bouquets by Bosschaert and de Heem, a luminous Amsterdam
cityscape by van der Heyden and an amusing ice-skating
scene by Avercamp. All that’s missing is a Vermeer.  “Dutch and Flemish Masterworks From the Rose-Marie
and Eijk van Otterloo Collection”  was organized by the
Peabody Essex Museum and runs through Oct. 2 at the Legion
of Honor, Lincoln Park. Information: +1-415-750-3600;
 http://www.famsf.org/legion .  ‘The Steins Collect’  The curatorial triumph of the summer is “The Steins
Collect: Matisse, Picasso, and the Parisian Avant-Garde”
at the San Francisco Museum of  Modern Art .  Writer and Bay Area native Gertrude Stein and her
brothers, Leo and Michael, had remarkable taste and timing.
They moved to Paris in the early 1900s and soon began
collecting the newest wave of modern art, Matisse and
Picasso, as well as the more established Cezanne, Renoir,
Bonnard and others.  Their apartments became de facto museums of modernism
and salons for the artistic elite of Paris. Gertrude was
Picasso’s champion. Leo, Michael and his wife, Sarah,
favored Matisse. (And others: Michael and Sarah later
commissioned Le Corbusier to design a modernist house for
them.)  The sprawling show brings together much of the now
scattered Stein collection. It features iconic works like
Picasso’s monumental 1905-06 portrait of Gertrude, now in
the collection of the Metropolitan Museum in  New York , and
Matisse’s 1905 “Woman With a Hat,” now part of the San
Francisco museum’s collection.  Along with about 40 Picassos, 60 Matisses and works by
more than a dozen other artists, the exhibition offers
scores of photographs of the Steins, Gertrude’s partner
Alice B. Toklas, their apartments and their arty circle,
encapsulating a remarkable period.  Writer, Lecturer, Celebrity  An excellent companion show at the nearby Contemporary
Jewish Museum, “Seeing Gertrude Stein: Five Stories,”
focuses on Gertrude’s life as a writer, lecturer and
celebrity, displaying manuscripts, documents, photographs
and a number of original works depicting Gertrude and
Alice.  “The Steins Collect”  runs through Sept. 6 at the San
Francisco Museum of Modern Art, 151 Third St. Information:
+1-415-357-4000;  http://www.sfmoma.org . The show opens at
the Grand Palais in Paris on Oct. 3 and at the  Metropolitan
Museum  in New York on Feb. 21.  “Seeing Gertrude Stein: Five Stories”  runs through
Sept. 6 at the Contemporary Jewish Museum, 736 Mission St.
Information: +1-415-655-7800;  http://www.thecjm.org . It
opens Oct. 14 at the  National Portrait Gallery  in
 Washington .  Picassos From Paris  At the de Young museum, “Picasso: Masterpieces From
the Musee National Picasso, Paris” surveys the artist’s
prolific career.  In an elegant, almost minimalist installation, the
show lets the 150 works speak for themselves. While Picasso
made his name with Cubism, some of the most extraordinary
pieces in the exhibition are his realist paintings from the
post-World War I period -- monumental images like “Two
Women Running on the Beach (The Race)” of 1922 or sensuous
ones such as “Still Life With Pitcher and Apples” of
1919. Like Dou’s “Sleeping Dog,” these are physically
small pictures, yet they take your breath away.  “Picasso”  runs through Oct. 10 at the de Young
Museum, Golden Gate Park. Information: +1-415-750-3600;
 http://www.famsf.org . The show opens Nov. 12 at the Art
Gallery of New South Wales in Sydney.  (Stephen West is an editor for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this story:
Stephen West in San Francisco at 
 smwest@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 