-- 
Poland’s Economy Grows Faster Than Forecast as Investment Offsets Demand

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l   a n d   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 
2011-08-30T14:48:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/poland-s-economy-grows-faster-than-forecast-as-investment-offsets-demand.html
Poland ’s economy grew faster in the
second quarter than economists estimated as investment growth
outweighed slowing consumer demand.  Gross domestic product grew 4.3 percent from a year
earlier, compared with 4.4 percent in the previous three months,
the  Central Statistics Office  in Warsaw said today in a
statement. The median estimate of 30 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was 4.2 percent.  Poland’s economy grew at the fifth-fastest pace in the
European Union after being the only member of the 27-nation bloc
to avoid recession two years ago. Investments helped maintain
momentum in the second quarter, when peaking inflation bit into
consumer demand.  “Consumption is pretty weak, and that’s a concern,” said
 Maja Goettig , chief economist at Bank BPH SA in Warsaw. “But
investment is on track to pick up the slack to a great extent --
that’s a very good sign.”  The zloty rose to 4.1530 per euro as of 4:15 p.m. in
Warsaw. The yield on the five-year bond was at 5.060 percent,
and the WIG20 was up 0.4 percent from yesterday at 2361.35.  ‘Bragging’  “I’m bragging about today’s figure because it’s really
something to brag about in today’s  Europe ,” Prime Minister
Donald Tusk, who is bidding for a second term in October, told
journalists today in Brussels. The solution to the economic
crisis is to “spend EU funding sparingly, wisely, rationally
but also courageously, in particular those funds that encourage
direct investment.”  Poland was the biggest net recipient of EU funding in the
2007-2013 budget, getting 67 billion euros ($97 billion) in aid
to iron out differences between richer and poorer states. EU
governments will this year start debating the bloc’s next
multiyear budget, with some net payers signaling they want to
curb funding.  Growth in the euro area, which buys 55 percent of Polish
exports, slowed to 0.2 percent from the previous quarter in the
April-June period, the worst performance since the region’s 2009
recession. Export-led growth in  Hungary ,  Romania  and the  Czech
Republic  has decelerated as Europe’s debt crisis and a weaker
 U.S. economy  put the brakes on global expansion.  Investment Accelerates  Capital expenditures and inventory building accounted for
more than half of second-quarter growth, while the contribution
of consumption shrank to 1.9 percentage points from 2.9
percentage points in the first three months, according to
estimates by the statistics office.  Fixed investment in Poland, which is co-hosting the 2012
European football championships with neighboring  Ukraine , grew
7.8 percent from a year earlier in the second quarter,
accelerating from 6 percent in the previous three months.  Lubelski Wegiel Bogdanka SA, the only Polish coal producer
in the benchmark WIG20 blue-chip index, and Kompania Weglowa SA,
Europe’s largest miner, plan to boost investment this year as
higher demand from domestic industrial customers requires
capacity to be expanded.  Private-consumption growth slowed to 3.5 percent from 3.9
percent. Inflation and a higher-than-expected jobless rate may
have prompted consumers to delay planned purchases, according to
BPH’s Goettig.  “The situation on the labor market is not as good as
expected, with unemployment falling at a slower pace than we
thought and only a moderate increase in employment,” she said.  Rates on Hold  Today’s growth figure will support the central bank’s
“wait-and-see” stance,  Raffaella Tenconi , an economist at Bank
of America Merrill Lynch in  London , said by e-mail.  The central bank has raised its benchmark  interest rate  by
a total of 1 percentage point this year to 4.5 percent as
inflation remained above its target. As the euro area’s
sovereign-debt crisis worsened, monetary policy makers suggested
they would keep rates on hold or even begin cutting them.  “The risk is biased toward easing if the eurozone
situation were to deteriorate further as the rosy message of the
GDP release is at odds with the monthly releases, most of which
have been pointing to a more pronounced slowdown,” Tenconi
said.  Industrial-output growth slowed for a second month in July
to 1.8 percent from a year earlier, below a 3.4 percent median
estimate of 20 economists. Employment rose an annual 3.3 percent
that month, the slowest this year, as companies delayed hiring.  Economic conditions “don’t suggest the need for interest-
rate cuts,” Anna Zielinska-Glebocka of the Monetary Policy
Council said in an interview on TVN CNBC after the GDP release,
adding she’s “very pleased” with investment growth.  The  Narodowy Bank Polski  lowered its 2012 GDP projection
last month to 3.2 percent from 3.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net 
Katya Andrusz in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  