-- 
Police Said to Want Names Tabloid Hacker Disclosed Kept Secret

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-08-30T15:38:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/police-said-to-want-names-news-of-the-world-hacker-disclosed-kept-secret.html
London police will seek to block a
comedian’s lawyer from disclosing which  News Corp. (NWSA)  employees
directed private detective  Glenn Mulcaire  to hack into
celebrities’ voice mails, a person familiar with the case said.  Mulcaire, who was jailed in 2007 for phone-hacking while
employed by the News of the World tabloid, gave the names to the
London-based law firm  Schillings  on Aug. 26. He was required to
do so as part of a lawsuit filed by Stephen Coogan, an actor who
claims his messages were also intercepted. Mulcaire lost a court
ruling last month in which he sought to avoid naming who at News
Corp.’s U.K. unit asked him to intercept phone messages left for
six public figures.  The Metropolitan Police, which is investigating the extent
of hacking by the tabloid, wants a court to order the names kept
secret, according to the person, who declined to be identified
because they weren’t authorized to discuss the case publicly.
London police are also probing whether police officers were paid
for news and whether journalists hacked computers for stories.  While 14 arrests were made this year, the only person known
to have worked with Mulcaire is  Clive Goodman , the paper’s
former royal reporter who was also jailed. News Corp. was forced
to abandon its claim the hacking was limited to one “rogue”
reporter, after evidence from civil lawsuits by celebrities
showed the practice was more widespread. London police opened a
new probe in January, leading to the recent arrests and News
Corp.’s decision to close News of the World and scrap a planned
bid for  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   ‘Industrial Scale’  The U.K. Court of Appeal backed a High Court ruling that
having the identities of journalists who instructed Mulcaire
could assist Coogan in proving there was a conspiracy at News of
the World and that hacking was done on an “industrial scale.”  Mulcaire argued unsuccessfully the identities weren’t
relevant since he has already admitted the privacy breaches. His
lawyer, Sarah Webb, declined to comment today. The Met Police
also declined to comment.  The order applies to the celebrities whose phones Mulcaire
tapped when he pleaded guilty to hacking in November 2006,
including model  Elle Macpherson , according to the ruling.
Mulcaire also pleaded guilty to conspiring to hack the phones of
three members of the royal household.  Those arrested this year include former News of the World
editors Rebekah Brooks and  Andy Coulson , former managing editor
Stuart Kuttner, former assistant editor Greg Miskiw, former news
editor Ian Edmondson, former features writer Dan Evans and
former chief reporter Neville Thurlbeck.  In January 2007, when Mulcaire was sentenced to six months
in jail, his lawyer told the court voice mails left for people
other than the royal family hadn’t been intercepted for Goodman,
“but for others in the same organization,” according to court
records in the case.  Mulcaire sued News Corp.’s U.K. newspaper unit earlier this
month. He claims a breach of contract because the company
stopped paying his legal bills, according to a person familiar
with the case.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  