-- 
Qaddafi Forces Accused of Possible War Crimes

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-08-30T08:44:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/qaddafi-forces-may-have-committed-war-crimes-u-s-human-rights-group-says.html
Forces loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi 
committed possible war crimes in the battle for Misrata, a U.S.-
based human rights group said, as some of the fallen leader’s
family fled to neighboring Algeria.  Those crimes include murder, torture and rape, Physicians
for Human Rights said in a report. The Boston-based group cited
interviews with 54 residents of Misrata and its surrounding
villages that it said were conducted in June, shortly after
rebel forces captured the western coastal city.  “The rule of law must be the bedrock of a new and free
Libya,” the group said in the report released today. The
rebels’ National Transitional Council “must ensure that
perpetrators are brought to justice and held accountable.”  The rebels are seeking to capture Qaddafi and his closest
aides, including son Saif al-Islam, to consolidate their gains
and bring stability to the North African nation after entering
Tripoli last week. Some of Qaddafi’s immediate family fled to
 Algeria , while his youngest son, a military commander, was
reported yesterday to have been killed in battle.  Qaddafi’s wife, Safia, daughter Aisha and two sons,
Hannibal and Mohammad, with their wives and children, crossed
into Algeria early yesterday, the Algeria Press Service
reported, citing a statement by the country’s Foreign Ministry.  Rebels Seek Qaddafi  The Libyan rebels want them sent back. Ahmed Jibril, an
aide to transitional council Chairman Mustafa Abdel Jalil, was
quoted by the  Associated Press  as saying rebel leadership will
demand Algeria “hand them over to Libya to be tried before
Libyan courts.”  Khamis Qaddafi, the military commander, was killed in a
NATO air strike southeast of Tripoli,  Sky News  reported, citing
a man claiming to have been Khamis’s bodyguard. A rebel
official, speaking on the condition he not be named, said the
deaths of Khamis and of Qaddafi’s top security adviser, Abdullah
al-Senussi, hadn’t been confirmed.  Members of the Khamis Brigade, the Qaddafi son’s military
force, allegedly executed detainees in a now burned-down
warehouse near Tripoli on Aug. 23,  Human Rights Watch  said in a
report on its website yesterday. An investigator from the group
counted charred remains of 45 detainees and was told by a
survivor that the building, used as a prison, held 153 people,
mostly civilians, the New York-based group said.  The rebels expect to announce a new interim government, led
by current Prime Minister Mahmoud Jibril, in the first week of
September, NTC member Fathi Baja said by telephone yesterday.  Libya  Contact Group  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  will travel to
Paris this week for a Sept. 1 meeting of the so-called Libya
Contact Group, State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland
announced yesterday. Clinton and her foreign counterparts will
“further coordinate our financial and political support” for
the rebel council, Nuland said at a press briefing.  Nuland played down the option of holding a donors’
conference to raise money for the new Libyan government, saying
“the first priority” for the U.S. is to unfreeze Libya’s
assets and revive the country’s oil industry.  “Let’s start with getting their money back to them,” she
said.  As anti-Qaddafi forces waited for the  North Atlantic Treaty
Organization  to bomb Scud missile sites so they can move toward
Sirte, about 500 protesters in the rebel-held city of Misrata
this week chanted the “blood of the martyrs” would be betrayed
by the expected appointment of former army general Albarrani
Shkal as head of security in the capital, Tripoli.  Sirte Haven  Sirte is a haven for Qaddafi loyalists, according to the
rebel command and NATO. Qaddafi’s chief spokesman, Moussa
Ibrahim, said Aug. 27 that Qaddafi remains in Libya and wants to
negotiate with the rebels to form a transitional government, an
offer that opposition leaders have rejected.  According to Baja, Qaddafi loyalists in Sirte have two
options: “To speed up the negotiations process and accept the
liberation of Sirte, or to face the military solution.” Salim
Miftah, one of the rebel commanders, told  Al Jazeera  the rebels
need about 10 days to capture Sirte if talks fail.  Rebel units pushed toward Sirte from east and west along
the coastal highway on Aug. 28, Commander Ali Ahmed of the rebel
Sidra Brigade said in an interview.  “The people of Sirte will not be happy losing their
patronage and corruption networks to a new group who will
develop their own,” said  Paul Sullivan , a North Africa expert
and professor at the Washington-based National Defense
University. “The rebels need to bring the people of Sirte to
their side and this seems near-impossible.”  Missile Systems  NATO targeted 20 surface-to-air missile canisters and two
surface-to-air missile systems in Sirte overnight, as well as
five multiple-rocket launchers in Ras Lanuf, home to one of
Libya’s biggest refineries, NATO said in a statement yesterday.  “Fierce clashes” have also erupted in Sabha, Baja said
yesterday. A group of tribal leaders from Bani Walid asked to
start talks with the rebels to “surrender and recognize the
revolutionaries and the revolution,” Baja added.  Abdel-Baset al-Megrahi, who was convicted of the 1988
Lockerbie bombing, was found lying in a comatose state and close
to death in his Tripoli home,  CNN  reported. The Libyan rebel
government won’t deport al-Megrahi, its justice minister said,
according to the AP. U.S. Senator  Charles Schumer , Democrat of
 New York , had encouraged the rebel council to hold al-Megrahi
fully accountable for the bombing of Pan Am flight 103, which
killed 270 people.  Al-Megrahi’s Condition  Al-Megrahi spent almost nine years in prison in  Scotland 
until he was released in 2009 for health reasons. The Scottish
municipality responsible for monitoring al-Megrahi said in a
statement yesterday that officials are in contact with his
family and there is “no evidence of a breach of his license
condition.”  The U.S. State Department has asked the rebel council to
take “a hard look” at what should be done with al-Megrahi and
the terms under which he was allowed back into Libya, Nuland
said yesterday.  “We believe he should still be behind bars,” she said.  With Tripoli under their control, the rebel leaders are
turning to domestic concerns including a water shortage and
spread of disease.  “This could turn into an unprecedented health epidemic,”
said Christian Balslev-Olesen, head of Unicef’s office in Libya.  Amnesty International  said yesterday that key prison
records and other documentation -- vital for possible  war crimes 
trials -- are at risk of being lost as sites remain unsecured
and papers are destroyed or looted.  The conflict has all but halted oil exports from Libya,
which has the largest proven reserves of any African country.
Output dropped to 100,000 barrels a day in July, down from the
1.6 million barrels pumped before the uprising started.  Crude oil for October delivery fell 8 cents to $87.19 a
barrel at 9:04 a.m.  London  time on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Stephen in Misrata, Libya at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 