-- 
RBS Leads U.K. Banks Higher Following Analyst Rating Upgrade

-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 
2011-08-30T16:06:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/rbs-leads-british-banks-higher-following-analyst-rating-upgrade.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,
Britain’s biggest government-controlled bank, lead U.K. banks
higher after Deutsche Bank AG analysts raised its recommendation
to “buy”.  The Edinburgh-based bank rose by 8 percent to 23.64 pence
in  London  trading, its biggest rise since Aug. 24.  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  gained 7.8 percent to 32.03 pence, while
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  advanced 6.7 percent to 165.4 pence.  “We think the value proposition is clear,” Deutsche Bank
analysts including Jason Napier wrote in a note to investors
today. Following a 36 percent decline in the share price of RBS
in the last month, Deutsche said it was raising RBS to a “buy”
from “hold.” “Barclays is our top pick,” wrote Napier.  The rally arrested the decline of U.K. banks, bringing the
fall this year to 27 percent. Investors are awaiting a report
from the government-appointed Independent Commission on Banking
in a fortnight’s time, as concerns about  Europe ’s sovereign debt
crisis cut earnings estimates. Yesterday, Greece’s EFG Eurobank
Ergasias SA and Alpha Bank SA said they’d merge. On Aug. 25,
Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. agreed to invest $5
billion in Bank of America Corp.  “The Greek consolidation is helpful, I think the Bank of
America situation in also helping -- you’ve got significant
investors taking stakes in banks, its psychologically some
comfort,” said Neil Smith, an analyst at WestLB AG. “Plus the
major under-performance of the sector versus the market over the
last month.”  ‘Barking Mad’  “As macroeconomic estimates settle down, confidence in
more distant earnings per share projections for the likes of
Lloyds Banking Group and RBS will improve, driving a significant
increase in the share price,” Deutsche Bank wrote.  The U.K. government would be “barking mad” to ringfence
the retail divisions of banks from other operations in the face
of the current economic situation,  John Cridland , director-
general of the Confederation of British Industry told the
Financial Times today.  “We don’t have the same level of sovereign fear other
places have,” said  Simon Maughan , head of sales and
distribution at MF Global Ltd. in London. “Into that mix you
can throw in the comments from the CBI on the ICB report
suggesting it might be watered down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  