-- 
Treasuries Rally on Economic-Slowing Concern, Fed Policy Debate

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-08-30T21:14:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/treasuries-rally-on-economic-slowing-concern-fed-policy-debate.html
Treasuries rose after U.S. consumer
confidence plunged in August to the lowest in more than two
years, underscoring concern that global growth has slowed and
boosting demand for the safest assets.  U.S. debt yields declined as the  Federal Reserve  released
minutes of its Aug. 9 meeting indicating a few policy makers
favored more aggressive action to stimulate the economy and
lower unemployment.  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s largest
bond fund, said the global economic crisis is leading to a
possible “developed economy” recession in the U.S. and Europe,
where consumer sentiment also weakened and bank’s bond holdings
came under scrutiny.  “Treasuries are reflecting the continuous negative
economic surprises,” said  Jay Mueller , who manages about $3
billion of bonds at Wells Fargo Capital Management in  Milwaukee .
“There was nothing much new in the Fed minutes. However, there
is really a difference of opinion on the Fed as to how much dry
powder they have left, and even if they can do something, should
they given increasing levels of inflation in the market.”  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes dropped seven basis
points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 2.17 percent at 5:09 p.m.
in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The
2.125 percent securities maturing in August 2021 rose 19/32, or
$5.94 per $1,000 face amount, to 99 22/32. The 10-year note
yield slid on Aug. 18 to a record low 1.97 percent.  Yields on 30-year bonds dropped seven basis points to 3.52
percent today. Two-year note yields were little changed at 0.20
percent.  Treasury Returns  Government bonds  have returned 2.6 percent in August, the
most since the depths of the financial crisis in December 2008,
according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.  U.S.
government debt  has returned 6.9 percent this year,
outperforming the 4.4 percent drop in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index.  The Fed officials who sought stronger actions, who weren’t
identified, “felt that recent economic developments justified a
more substantial move” beyond the pledge adopted at the Aug. 9
meeting of the  Federal Open Market Committee  to hold its key
 interest rate  at a record low until mid-2013.  The report indicates that Fed officials will more fully
debate their options when they meet Sept. 21 for a two-day
meeting that was originally scheduled to last one day. Fed
officials discussed a range of tools, including buying more
government bonds, to bolster the economy. They didn’t come to an
agreement on what the Fed’s next step might be should the
economy continue to weaken.  Bernanke Speech  U.S. bonds trimmed monthly gains after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  sought in his address on Aug. 26 in  Jackson Hole ,
 Wyoming , to reassure investors that economic growth is safe in
the long run. While he said the Fed has tools to aid the
recovery if needed, he stopped short of indicating that the
central bank will undertake a third round of bond purchases.  Treasuries investors remained neutral in the latest week,
as a weakened economic outlook and the European debt crisis kept
curbed directional bets, according to an Aug. 29 survey by
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  About 83 percent of the clients surveyed by the primary
dealer were neutral, just less than the 85 percent in the
previous week. About 13 percent were short, up from 11 percent
of investors betting that the price of the securities would fall
the previous week.  “Rates have already priced in a lot of economic
weakness,” said Srini Ramaswamy, a JPMorgan strategist in New
York, in a phone interview. “Except for the risk from Europe,
there would be more investors positioning for higher rates.”  Favored Bonds  Gross, whose company is the world’s biggest manager of bond
funds, said he favors investing in  Australia ,  Mexico ,  Brazil  and
 Canada , along with non-dollar currencies that have strong ties
to the Asian continent, Gross, co-chief investment officer and
founder of Pimco, reiterated.  Treasuries have returned almost 7
percent since February, when Gross eliminated the Total Return
Fund’s holding of U.S government securities. He boosted
Treasuries to 10 percent of assets in July from 8 percent in
June.  The $245 billion  Pimco Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  has lost 1.04
percent in the past month, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It’s up 3.2 percent this year, trailing almost 70
percent of its peers, Bloomberg data show.  The Conference Board’s index slumped to 44.5, the weakest
since April 2009, from a revised 59.2 reading in July, figures
from the New York-based private research group showed today. It
was the biggest point drop since October 2008. Economists
predicted the August gauge would fall to 52, according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  Consumer Weakness  “The consumer confidence data was grossly weaker than
expectations and consistent with what has been going on with
weakening data of late,” said  David Ader , head of government
bond strategy at  Stamford , Connecticut-based CRT Capital Group
LLC. “We are back to levels that would be consistent with
recessionary levels. Based on this alone, it looks like we are
in double-dipping territory and the Treasury market is
rallying.”  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of home values in 20 U.S. cities
fell 4.5 percent from June 2010, after a 4.6 percent drop in the
12 months ended May that was the biggest since 2009, the group
said today in New York. The median forecast of 31 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News projected a 4.6 percent decline.  An index of executive and consumer sentiment in the single-
currency region of  Europe  fell to 98.3 from a revised 103 in
July, the European Commission in Brussels said today. That’s the
lowest since May 2010. Economists had forecast a decline to
100.2, according to the median of 29 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Some European banks haven’t sufficiently written down the
value of Greek government bonds and other “distressed sovereign
debt” they own, the International Accounting Standards Board
said in a letter published on its website today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  