-- 
Rebels Forage for Munitions Ahead of Final Assault on Qaddafi Birthplace

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n
-- 
2011-08-31T06:41:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/rebels-scrounge-for-munitions-ahead-of-final-assault-on-qaddafi-birthplace.html
Libyan rebels from three parts of
the country converged on the capital in search of weapons as
time runs out for those still supporting  Muammar Qaddafi  to
surrender or face attack.  The coastal city of Sirte, Qaddafi’s hometown, and the
southern town of Sabha are the key remaining bastions of Qaddafi
loyalists, rebel leader Mustafa Abdel Jalil said yesterday in
Benghazi. He called on people in those areas to surrender by
Sept. 3 to avoid further bloodshed.  This week, residents of Tripoli witnessed battered black
pickup trucks driven by fighters from the western city of
Misrata crisscrossing the capital in search of ordnance. A
Bloomberg reporter in a separate car followed a group from
Faisal brigade.  The rebels are seeking to capture Qaddafi and his closest
aides, including son Saif al-Islam, to consolidate their gains
and bring stability to the North African nation after entering
Tripoli last week. Some of Qaddafi’s immediate family fled to
 Algeria .  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  will travel to
Paris for a meeting tomorrow of the so-called Libya Contact
Group. Clinton and her foreign counterparts will coordinate
financial and political support for the rebel National
Transitional Council, according to the State Department.  Not Welcomed  In some parts of Tripoli, the fighters flashed V for
victory gestures and were met with energetic replies. In others,
they weren’t, possibly an indication the rebels aren’t
universally welcome in a city that less than two weeks ago was
controlled by Qaddafi.  The first stop for this group of young fighters was a
former food warehouse containing 89 brass tank shells next to
dozens of boxes, some overturned, full of mortar shells. The
rebels were disappointed, saying fighters from other brigades
got there first, taking the small-arms ammunition.  Fighter Abdullah Maiteeg said Qaddafi stocked other sites
with ammunition to prepare for the defense of Tripoli, fearing
the  North Atlantic Treaty Organization  air strikes in support of
the rebels that pulverized army barracks across the capital.  Ammunition Claim  At another location, the site of a company publishing
technical books, rebels from another brigade were guarding the
front door. The main gate was blocked by a pile of sand and the
guards said the ammunition inside belonged to them.  The Faisal truck left and waited for 20 minutes one street
away, returning to find that the guards had gone off in search
of a truck of their own, leaving the front door locked. The
glass panel of the door was smashed with a boot and the Faisal
fighters entered and brought out several cases of rockets.  In two such locations, there were dozens of green pants and
jackets, which the Faisal fighters said were the uniforms
government soldiers took off as rebels entered the city. The
soldiers fled to safety wearing underwear and carrying guns, the
rebels said.  Maiteeg, 24, said pro-Qaddafi militias were on the streets,
pretending to be part of a rebel army that includes brigades
from Misrata, the Nafusa Mountains and districts of Tripoli
itself, contradicting claims by the council that the capital is
fully under its control.  “They are all still here,” said Maiteeg, a former oil
engineer. “You can see them. They wear our clothes and shout
Allah Akbar, but they are Qaddafi guys.”  Rixos Hotel  By the time it grew dark, the pickup truck was full of
ordnance including small arms ammunition and rockets, and it
headed to the Rixos hotel, where two dozen western journalists
had been trapped for six days as the battle for Tripoli raged.  The fighters mostly observed the Islamic fasting month
Ramadan, so they had agreed to meet other rebel groups at the
hotel after sundown for their evening meal, making use of the
hotel kitchens.  While the staff seemed unhappy to see them, they let them
use the kitchen if they brought their own food. The fighters
said the district remains loyal to Qaddafi, something that
couldn’t be independently verified.  Two pickup trucks with mounted machine guns were deployed
at the gate. Next to them sat a black armored luxury car, the
windows pocked with bullet marks. The car was abandoned after
crashing into a tree near the hotel entrance.  Empty Streets  By the time dinner was finished, there was the crackle of
small arms fire from around the city. The pickup truck, now
loaded with ammunition, drove out through almost empty streets.  Further west in the city, the atmosphere changed. At the
last checkpoint on the main highway leading to Misrata,
civilians lined up holding baskets of bread, bottles of water,
paper cups and metal pots of tea to give the fighters.  Children gathered, waving the rebel tricolor. The fighters
said that the friendliness of these citizens was mixed with
anxiety because the Misrata rebels were an important garrison
element in Tripoli. Now they were returning home.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Stephen in Tripoli,  Libya  at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 