-- 
Refinancing Mortgages Won’t Fix Housing Market: Edward Glaeser

-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 
2011-08-30T00:00:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/refinancing-mortgages-won-t-fix-u-s-housing-commentary-by-edward-glaeser.html
The New York Times reported last
week that the Obama administration was considering a proposal to
“allow millions of homeowners with government-backed mortgages
to refinance them at today’s lower interest rates, about 4
percent.”  The measure’s supporters tout this as an almost cost-free
way to stimulate the economy, boost the housing market and
reduce foreclosures. But universal refinancing is far from free,
and is poorly designed to stimulate either the economy or the
housing market. Certainly,  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac, the huge
finance companies now under government control, will have to
allow some mortgage modifications in order to reduce their
foreclosure losses. That calls for smart, selective policies,
not universal refinancing.  This wouldn’t be the first time that the government has
gotten involved in the loan-modification and refinancing
business. The  Home Affordable Modification Program  and the  Home
Affordable Refinance Program  provided incentives to loan
servicers willing to refinance or modify the loans of struggling
homeowners. These were modest, sensible programs, but they have
helped fewer homeowners than some might wish.  The most extreme proposal now being floated involves
refinancing at current low rates all the mortgages insured by
Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac . One of the big appeals is that it
seems like free stimulus. As the Times reported, “proponents
say the plan carries little risk because the mortgages are
already guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.”  Cost Billions  But even supporters of the plan, including my fellow
Bloomberg View columnist  Ezra Klein , emphasize that refinancing
would mean that “ Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac  eat billions by
giving up their ability to challenge these reps and warrants”
given by mortgage issuers in the first place.  While forgoing the right to make banks bear the burden of
carelessly vetted mortgages is a real cost, the largest price
tag of any refinancing program is the direct one: Mortgages now
paying investors 6 percent would pay only 4 percent. Someone
would lose those interest payments, which Klein suggests may
amount to as much as $85 billion annually.  My quick calculation based on the Times’s  interest-rate
graphic  came to about $35 billion per year over many years. If
the program works, agency-insured mortgages would be paid off
early and bondholders would take losses essentially equal to the
benefits gained by borrowers.  MBS Investors  As nobody loves a mortgage-backed security investor, this
may seem like free stimulus, but, like it or not, we are all MBS
investors now. When we’re talking about reducing payments to
Freddie and Fannie mortgage holders, we’re really talking about
reducing payments to ourselves. Our government owns a massive
amount of agency-insured debt and would take a significant part
of the hit if debtors reduced their payments.  The  Federal Reserve System  owns almost $900 billion of
securities insured by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Those two
finance companies, which are now squarely part of our
government, have retained mortgage portfolios of  $730 billion 
and  $680 billion , respectively. The Treasury still had about $80
billion of these securities on the books as of  July . This $2.39
trillion portfolio is roughly equal in size to the Times’s
estimate of “$2.4 trillion in mortgages backed by Fannie and
Freddie” that “carried interest rates of 4.5 percent or
higher.”  This rough equivalence doesn’t mean that private investors
won’t bear much of the cost of prepayment, but some significant
share of the revenue losses from lower mortgage payments would
surely be paid by taxpayers.  Stimulus Effect  What about the program’s benefits? Refinancing makes little
sense as stimulus, whose goal is to provide a temporary benefit
that induces more spending today. Instead, state-supported
refinancing is a benefit that pays off year after year for as
long as three decades. As the loss to investors is experienced
immediately, while the benefit to credit-constrained borrowers
is spread over time, the net effect on the economy may well be
negative.  It’s also hard to see why housing markets would be
significantly strengthened by lowering the interest payments for
existing homeowners. My work suggests that the  link  between
interest rates and housing market is relatively modest, and this
refinancing effort won’t do anything to reduce borrowing costs
for new buyers.  Lower Payments  The most natural way in which widespread refinancing for
troubled homeowners could support the housing market is by
reducing foreclosures, and empirical work typically finds  weak
evidence  that lower mortgage payments reduce the likelihood of
defaults.  My colleague Christopher Foote, along with Kristopher Gerardi,  Lorenz Goette  and Paul Willen,  estimate  that a 20
percent reduction in the initial  interest-rate  cost of a
mortgage would lead the monthly default rate to fall by about
0.4 percentage point for subprime borrowers and less than 0.1
percentage point for standard borrowers. They find that changes
in the  unemployment rate  or housing prices have a significantly
bigger impact on defaults than changes in the interest rate.  After all, if refinancing saved so much money by reducing
defaults,  private lenders  would surely find mortgage
modification far more appealing than they do.  Government support that enables refinancing among borrowers
who couldn’t refinance in the private market on their own is a
public transfer to these borrowers.  Rewarding Borrowers  Many people may wonder why the federal government should
reward people who borrowed heavily to buy during the boom and
whether such generosity doesn’t encourage future risk-taking.
Others will surely ask why this aid isn’t means-tested or
focused just on the elderly or families with small children, who
might suffer most from a move. Still others will question
whether it is wise to try to keep people in houses they never
should have bought and still can’t afford.  Yet Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are left with their
obligation for large numbers of defaulting and potentially
defaulting mortgages. Managing this portfolio makes some
mortgage modifications appropriate, as long as these measures
are motivated by a sensible desire to reduce taxpayer outlays,
rather than high-flying claims about the widespread economy-wide
benefits from subsidized refinancing.  Fannie and Freddie also have the problem of managing their
stock of already foreclosed homes, and the Times discussed a
second proposal to  rent some of those homes  so that they can be
sold slowly.  Rental Proposal  Exploring options makes sense, because selling homes too
quickly means low prices, especially if you are trying to move
thousands of foreclosed homes at once. Yet the  government  needs
to be quite careful here as well, because renting homes that
were meant to be owned is never easy.  The case for slow sales was made in a  classic paper  by
 David Genesove  and Chris Mayer, which found that Boston
condominium sellers with high loan-to-equity levels sold their
units more slowly and got substantially higher prices. Steve Levitt and Chad Syverson found that real estate agents, who
presumably know more about housing markets than ordinary
sellers, typically take 9.5 days longer to sell their homes and
receive 3.7 percent higher prices, holding everything else
constant.  By contrast, my colleague  John Campbell , along with his co-
authors Stefano Giglio and  Parag Pathak , estimate a general
forced-sale discount of 18 percent and a foreclosure discount of
 28 percent .  Lost Value  Selling slowly offers some chance of reducing taxpayer
losses on these foreclosed sales and keeping housing prices
stable, but renting these homes would be tricky. We should also
expect significant losses in value from renting, because renters
have less incentive than homeowners to take care of the
property. A  significant literature  shows that homes lose value -
- as much as 1 percent per year -- when they are rented. The
maintenance problem is likely to be exacerbated if, as I expect,
the Feds end up trusting someone else to handle the rental
contract.  The  Federal Housing Finance Agency , the regulator of Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac, is  soliciting ideas  from the public and
investors. I hope that the government doesn’t end up subsidizing
private investors to turn landlord and that any landlords would
post a significant maintenance deposit to cover damage to the
property.  A massive refinancing effort is likely to have little
impact on the economy or foreclosures or housing prices. What it
would do, however, is hurt our government’s already precarious
balance sheet by reducing the payments on its vast mortgage
portfolio.  Fannie and Freddie should focus on reducing public losses
with sensible, limited mortgage modifications and by selling
foreclosed homes reasonably slowly.  (Edward Glaeser, an economics professor at  Harvard
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the author of
“Triumph of the City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Edward Glaeser at  eglaeser@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 