-- 
Repsol Jumps as Pemex Seeks 5% Stake, Signs Accord With Largest Investor

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   T o d d   W h i t e
-- 
2011-08-30T16:27:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/repsol-jumps-as-pemex-seeks-5-stake-signs-accord-with-largest-investor.html
Repsol YPF SA (REP) , Spain’s largest oil
company, rose to the highest in almost four weeks in Madrid on
plans by  Petroleos Mexicanos  to boost its stake and join with
the producer’s biggest shareholder to restructure management.  Repsol climbed 4.2 percent to 19.68 euros, the highest
closing price since Aug. 3. Pemex, as the Mexican state-owned
oil producer is known, will boost its stake by 5 percent after
agreeing to vote as a bloc with Repsol shareholder  Sacyr
Vallehermoso SA. (SYV)  Sacyr jumped 12 percent to 5.26 euros.  Within 30 days, the two will hold a combined 29.8 percent,
short of the 30 percent trigger for a takeover bid under Spanish
law. They will gain board seats and aim to split the chairman
and chief executive officer roles now held by Antonio Brufau.  “The deal is positive news for Repsol shares,” Stuart Joyner, an analyst at Investec Securities, said in  London .
“Brufau will stay as an executive in Repsol as he is very well-
regarded but we’ll see the CEO and chairman roles split early
next year. Having a relationship with Pemex is a strong step
farther into  Mexico  and  Latin America .”  Repsol management will watch out for the interests of all
its investors, said a spokesman who asked not to be identified
in line with company policy. He said the pact excludes the
majority of shareholders. Sacyr and Pemex said in a statement
yesterday that Repsol wasn’t “appropriately valued.”  Refinancing the Loan  Repsol is trading at about 2.6 times earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, compared with an
Ebitda multiple of 7.1 for the Stoxx 600 Oil & Gas index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg from the latest earnings
filings. Galp Energia SGPS SA,  Portugal ’s biggest oil company,
trades at 12.7 times Ebitda.  The current dividend yield of Repsol is 5.6 percent, more
than twice the average 2.7 percent of the index, the data show.  By the end of the year, Sacyr must refinance a 4.9 billion-
euro loan to fund the purchase of its stake in Repsol.  “The banks behind the loan will look positively at the
refinancing now as Sacyr may influence decisions such as
increasing the dividend in the long term,” Daniel Gandoy, an
analyst at Banco BPI, said by phone. “Brufau may have to split
his role as top manager and lose some of his power.”  CaixaBank, the commercial lender owned by  La Caixa , has 13
percent of Repsol. Pemex will raise its stake to 9.8 percent,
while Sacyr, a Spanish builder, will maintain 20 percent.
Caixabank will set out its response to the pact when the Repsol
board meets, the bank said in a regulatory filing today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  