-- 
Republicans to Unveil Bill to Force Major Changes at the UN

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-08-30T21:45:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/republicans-to-unveil-bill-to-force-major-changes-at-the-un.html
House Republicans  introduced
legislation today that seeks to force major changes at the
United Nations, using as leverage the threat to withhold some of
the U.S.’s 22 percent contribution to the world body’s operating
budget.  The bill by Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, the Republican chairwoman
of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, would demand that the UN
let countries decide how much to pay and which programs they
will support, rather than assessing payments based on a formula.
It would end funding for Palestinian refugees, limit use of U.S.
funds to only purposes outlined by Congress and put a hold on
creating or expanding peacekeeping operations until management
changes are made.  “We need a UN which will advance the noble goals for which
it was founded,” Ros-Lehtinen of  Florida  said in a statement.
“The current UN continues to be plagued by scandal,
mismanagement and inaction, and its agenda is frequently
hijacked by rogue regimes which protect each other while
targeting free democracies like the U.S. and Israel.”  Republicans are moving against the world body at a time
when the Obama administration is increasingly building its
foreign policy around multilateral institutions, such as the
alliance-based approach on  Libya .  The bill, which has 57 co-sponsors who are all Republicans,
may advance in the Republican-controlled House. It is likely to
face opposition in the Senate and from President  Barack Obama .  Administration Opposition  “We oppose this legislation,” said Victoria Nuland, a
State Department spokeswoman, at a press briefing today. She
said the measure would cut by half U.S. funding for the U.N and
“dangerously weaken the UN.”  “We believe in UN reform,” she said. “We just don’t
think this is the right way to go about it.”  The U.S. pays 22 percent of the UN’s regular operations
budget and is assessed 27 percent of the peacekeeping budget.
U.S. payments totaled $3.35 billion in 2010, of which $2.67
billion was dedicated to the 16 peacekeeping operations
worldwide, from South Sudan to  Haiti .  “After two years of the closest and most productive
cooperation in decades at the UN between  Washington  and the rest
of the international community, it is hard to understand why
Republicans in the  House of Representatives  are determined to
poison the well,” Jeffrey Laurenti, a UN analyst at the Century
Foundation, a New York-based research group, wrote in a blog
post yesterday.  International Cooperation  Laurenti cites UN support for the U.S. mission in
 Afghanistan , the world body’s move to authorize limited military
action in Libya at U.S. urging and its successful work in
handing power over to the legitimate winner of  Ivory Coast ’s
presidential election.  Brett Schaefer, a UN analyst at the Washington-based
 Heritage Foundation  that supports many Republican initiatives,
said that Ros-Lehtinen’s goals dovetail with the
administration’s interests in seeing more UN accountability,
improvements in peacekeeping and an end to policies that single
out  Israel  for criticism.  “The real point of divergence is how do you achieve these
policy goals,” Schaeffer said in a telephone interview.  Representative Howard Berman, the ranking Democrat on the
House Foreign Affairs Committee, said the bill would hurt Israel
and undermine U.S. leadership.  “At a time when efforts to isolate and delegitimize Israel
in the General Assembly and elsewhere are gaining steam, I can’t
see how a bill that will undoubtedly weaken our influence at the
UN and make it harder to counter Palestinian attempts to
unilaterally declare statehood is in  Jerusalem ’s interest, let
alone our own,” Berman said in a statement.  Percentage of Contribution  If passed into law, Ros-Lehtinen’s bill would have the U.S.
withhold a percentage of its contributions until at least 80
percent of the UN budget was voluntary.  The legislation also would limit the use of U.S.
contributions to only the specific purposes outlined by Congress
and would withhold U.S. funding for any UN agency that upgrades
the status of the Palestinian observer mission or any agency
that helps Palestinian refugees.  The bill would also withhold funding for the UN Human
Rights Council until the State Department can certify that it
doesn’t include members subject to  Security Council  sanctions,
under Security Council-mandated investigations for human rights
abuses or are state sponsors of terrorism.  Last month, Ros-Lehtinen’s committee approved an
authorization bill that would cut by almost 10 percent U.S.
funding for peacekeeping operations, which are assessed based on
each member nation’s relative share of the global economy.  Peacekeeping Bills  U.S. law limits the peacekeeping funding to 25 percent of
the cost of operations, but Congress has given an annual waiver
to permit payment of the full 27 percent assessment for
peacekeeping. Ros-Lehtinen wants to bring that amount down, in
line with the law, the House aide said.  Ros-Lehtinen’s bill would direct the president to have his
UN ambassador use the U.S. veto power in the Security Council to
block the creation of new peacekeeping operations or the
expansion of existing ones until reforms are made.  Groups that promote strong U.S.-UN relations, such as the
Washington-based Better World Initiative, said the bill would
undermine U.S. influence at the UN.  “We are hard-pressed to find a moment in history where the
UN has had a greater role in promoting American interests,”
said Executive Director Peter Yeo in an e-mail. The bill would
“severely erode America’s leadership role at the  United Nations 
and undermine our nation’s security.”  Tensions between the UN and the U.S. over management and
funding are not new. A push for improvements in UN management
came during the administration of President  Bill Clinton , who
signed the Helms-Biden United Nations Reform Act of 1999. It
tied U.S. payments to specified steps to improve management.  In 2006, President  George W. Bush ’s ambassador to the UN,
John Bolton, said the U.S. might push to make contributions to
the UN budget voluntary, as Ros-Lehtinen is doing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Varner in New York at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  