-- 
Republican Governors Calling for Overhaul of Medicaid to Reduce Spending

-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-08-30T18:23:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/republican-governors-call-for-overhaul-of-u-s-medicaid-to-limit-spending.html
Medicaid, the U.S. health program
for the poor, should be overhauled to limit spending and let
states design programs without federal interference, Republican
governors said.  In a report the Republican Governor’s Association issued
today, 31 state and territorial leaders made their most detailed
group effort to argue for an overhaul of the federal-state
health program that the  Congressional Budget Office  said will
insure 56 million people and cost the federal government $275
billion in 2011. Medicaid is among the biggest expenses for many
states struggling with lower  tax revenue .  “The  United States  literally cannot afford to have the
status quo on Medicaid,” said Mississippi Governor Haley Barbour, a Republican who has called for overhauling the program
by ending federal oversight. “We should not have to come to
Washington on bended knee and kowtow for waivers to do these
kinds of things.”  A congressional supercommittee is debating the fate of
federal entitlement programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and
Social Security, in an effort to reduce spending and the  U.S.
budget deficit . Representative  Fred Upton , a member of the panel
and the Republican chairman of the House Energy and Commerce
Committee, asked governors in May to propose program changes.  The report focuses on the cost of the program to states and
argues that managed-care plans will improve patients’ access to
providers and coordinate services. It calls for a full overhaul
of the program. “The Medicaid program must be truly
transformed, not just reformed around the edges,” said the
report.  Proposals Vary  “Each state Medicaid program should be accountable for
measured improvement in the health status of their Medicaid
populations based on quality and outcome metrics, rather than
compliance with bureaucratic processes that, in too many cases,
have no impact on improving the lives of the most vulnerable
Americans,” according to the report.  The report outlines 31 proposals, including letting states
do away with federal benefit and eligibility requirements in
favor of setting goals for health outcomes and spending. Under
the outcomes-based system, the federal government would only
step in when states deviated from the program goals they decided
jointly with the federal government.  Barbour rejected the idea that strong federal oversight of
Medicaid was necessary. “The idea that  Washington  loves our
constituents more than we do is offensive and false,” he said.  Supercommittee Setup  Another proposal would simplify the current system under
which the federal government pays for a share of the program,
currently 50 percent to 82 percent of total costs, according to
the  U.S. Department of Health  and Human Services. The Republican
governors recommend the U.S. give states a lump sum payment
yearly and leave them accountable for how it is used.  Barbour said his staff has already spoken with Upton about
the recommendations. “I think they will find it helpful,”
Barbour said.  The 12-lawmaker committee, which has until Nov. 23 to produce
its plan, may be the best chance the Republican governors have of
seeing the program overhauled. Medicaid is protected from cuts and
changes if the supercommittee fails to find the $1.2 trillion in 
savings it has as its goal.  Upton said the recommendations “add to the growing
collection of views from governors of both parties, which will
help inform our efforts to reform Medicaid for the future,” he
said in a statement.  Administration’s Arguments  As Republican lawmakers have asked for changes this year,
the administration has repeatedly said it is doing all it can to
give states flexibility to get costs down. “We remain committed
to working with governors of both parties to provide as much
flexibility in Medicaid as possible while protecting the people
it serves,” Richard Sorian, a spokesman for the Health and
Human Services Department, said in an e-mail. He rejected the
report’s suggestion that the 2010 health-care law be repealed.  Republicans who helped produce the report denied that HHS
had been flexible. “From my perspective, I think it’s gotten
worse,” said  Dennis Smith , secretary of the Wisconsin
Department of Health Services. Smith’s office oversees the
state’s Medicaid program, and he spoke by phone during the press
briefing. “Although we get good sound bites from the top
leadership, when we get to the regulations it’s quite a
different story,” he said.  Fighting Fraud  The spending includes fighting fraud and abuse in the
program, which the report says is now handled ineptly by the
U.S. under a system where fraud is looked for after it occurs
and money is paid out.  Whether the 2010 health-care law is “repealed or struck
down, Medicaid is in dire need of reform,” said Bob McDonnell,
chairman of the association and governor of  Virginia . The
overhaul is facing challenges in federal courts from Virginia
and 26 other states seeking to overturn the legislation.  The governors would also turn Medicaid patients over to
health management organizations, where insurers are given a lump
sum for each patient and then charged with keeping costs down by
managing their care. The Republican governors, in the report,
say they shouldn’t have to get approval from the U.S. before
pursuing such a program.  Molina Healthcare Inc (MOH) , based in  Long
Beach ,  California ,  Virginia Beach , Virginia-based  Amerigroup
Corp. (AGP)  and  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  provide the managed-care
services to states.  Other proposals include raising co-payments for people who
earn more than the federal poverty level, letting Medicaid
patients use health savings accounts combined with high-
deductible health plans and enrolling people in private coverage
instead of Medicaid. They would also reduce the financial burden
on Medicaid by having Medicare cover nursing home stays for 30
days more than it does now.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 