-- 
Reynolds Returns 39% Managing No. 1 Fund Buying Global Stocks

-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 
2011-08-30T23:01:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/reynolds-returns-39-managing-no-1-fund-buying-stocks-with-china-footprint.html
Mutual-fund manager Frederick
“Fritz” Reynolds lives in Maui,  Hawaii , and Las Vegas. The Maui
home was his choice. He decided to buy in Vegas earlier this
year partly because he couldn’t pass up the gleaming one-bedroom
apartment overlooking the Strip that was being offered at a 75
percent discount from the price it would have sold for four
years earlier, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its October
issue.  Reynolds, 69, spends most of his time finding bargains in
stocks, not real estate. His  Reynolds Blue Chip Growth Fund (RBCGX)  tops
Bloomberg Markets’s annual ranking of mutual funds that invest
mainly in the U.S. The fund returned 39.2 percent for the year
ended on June 30 and an annualized 14 percent over five years.  The five-year performance beat 99 percent of rivals and
trounced the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s 2.9 percent
annualized return during the same period, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Among Reynolds’s prescient recent picks:  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the
American depositary receipts of Chinese Internet search company
Baidu Inc., heavy-equipment maker  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and  Costco
Wholesale Corp. (COST)  Those companies’ total returns ranged from a low
of 33 percent (Apple) to 106 percent (Baidu) in the year ended
June 30.  When he’s in Hawaii, Reynolds wakes up at 3:30 a.m. to
follow U.S. trading. He says he invests in companies such as
Cupertino, California-based Apple and Beijing-based Baidu
because they’re betting on expansion in developing markets.  “With the growth of  China  and  India , we want to own what
China owns, buy what China buys,” Reynolds says.  Buying What China Buys  He’s the lone portfolio manager at Reynolds Capital
Management. Blue Chip Growth, with $260 million under management
as of June 30, is its only fund.  The Bloomberg Markets ranking includes U.S.-domiciled funds
with more than $250 million. Funds are ranked by total returns
for one, three and five years and by their Sharpe ratios for
three and five years. The Sharpe ratio measures the performance
of a fund adjusted for risk.  Bloomberg Markets also ranked exchange-traded funds, which
often track indexes, according to the growth in their assets
over three years. The No. 1 fund in that ranking is First Trust
Consumer Staples AlphaDEX, whose assets grew from $3 million on
June 30, 2008 to $155 million three years later. The fund is run
by Wheaton, Illinois-based First Trust Portfolios LP.  Old Westbury  The No. 1 mutual fund in global equities is  Old Westbury
Global Small and MidCap Fund (OWSMX) , a quantitative fund whose managers
include Karen Umland and Joseph Chi. The fund gained 37.7
percent for the year ended on June 30 and an annualized 9.8
percent over five years. Taking the No. 2, No. 3 and No. 4 slots
in global equities were funds run by David Iben of Nuveen
Investments Inc., who invests heavily in gold and natural
resources stocks.  The No. 1 fund investing in emerging-market equities is
Fidelity Advisor Emerging  Asia .  The top fund for U.S. small-cap stocks is Intrepid Small
Cap, run by Intrepid Capital Management.  Winners such as Reynolds are still too scarce for many U.S.
investors, who were shocked by two bear markets in the first
decade of this century. Investors pulled $51 billion more out of
U.S. equity funds than they put in during the 10 years ended on
May 31, according to data from the  Investment Company Institute 
in  Washington .  In the year ended on June 30, equity funds were hit by net
withdrawals of $79 billion. Investors have instead put their
money in bond funds and overseas stocks. Bond-fund assets rose
by $1.1 trillion during the past decade, ICI data show.  2008 Is the Key  The top-ranked bond-fund managers shunned risk to beat
their competitors. The most important driver of their five-year
performance was how they handled the credit-market crisis in
2008.  Funds from  John Hancock Funds LLC , owned by Toronto-based
 Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) , took the No. 1 and No. 3 slots in
global bonds. Both funds are managed by a team led by Daniel Janis.  The top-ranked $2.2 billion Strategic Income Opportunities
Fund, which has more than 40 percent of its portfolio invested
outside the U.S., returned 15.5 percent in the year ended on
June 30 and an annualized 9.8 percent over five years, Bloomberg
data show. It suffered a below-average loss of 8.4 percent in
2008.  “In 2008, it wasn’t as much what we owned as what we didn’t
own,” says Janis, a former foreign-exchange trader at  Morgan
Stanley (MS) , whose co-managers are Thomas Goggins and John Iles. “We
didn’t own credit-default swaps, we never owned subprime, no
financials, no auto and no local emerging-market debt.”  High Yield Wins  The fund today owns no U.S. Treasuries, and about 35
percent of its U.S. holdings are in high-yield corporate
securities. Its biggest overseas holdings are in Canada and
 Singapore . Janis says the fund sidestepped the sovereign-debt
crisis in  Europe  by moving away from the bonds of  Greece ,
Ireland,  Italy  and  Spain .  “Three years ago, we made a conscious decision to stay out
of peripheral Europe,” he says. “Greece and some of the others
were undisciplined in spending then. They’re the same way now.”  The No. 2 global bond fund is  Michael Hasenstab ’s $59
billion Templeton Global Bond Fund; his fund was No. 1 in 2009
and 2010. The fund, owned by San Mateo, California-based
Franklin Resources Inc., rose an annualized 12.1 percent during
the past five years.  As of June 30, Hasenstab had 44 percent of the fund’s money
invested in Asian bonds, excluding  Japan , with 15 percent of it
in  South Korea . In Europe, his fund has stayed away from the
riskiest debt to focus on bonds in Sweden and  Poland .  Betting on Poland  “Growth in  Germany  has been a big boon to countries such as
Poland,” Hasenstab says. “We also like the fact that Poland and
Scandinavia run responsible fiscal accounts.”  Five of the top 10 U.S. bond funds invest in high-yield
securities, which rallied in 2009 and 2010 after steep declines
during the 2008 credit crisis. The No. 1  Columbia Income
Opportunities Fund (AIOAX) , managed by Brian Lavin in Minneapolis,
invests only in securities rated B or higher.  “Part of our outperformance is the structural nature of the
fund, because we avoided CCCs, and that really helped in 2008,”
Lavin says.  Fritz Reynolds is the first to admit that his record is not
unblemished. His Blue Chip Growth Fund was a heavy investor in
technology and Internet stocks in the late 1990s. After tripling
in value from 1997 to 1999, the fund plunged 69 percent from
2000 to 2002. His firm’s assets tumbled to $26 million from a
peak of $850 million in 1999 as losses mounted and investors
fled.  ‘What Did I Do Wrong?’  “I felt terrible and blamed myself for days and months,”
Reynolds says. “For me, the big question was, what did I do
wrong and how can I make sure it never happens again?”  Reynolds overhauled his investment process, spreading his
bets over a more diverse selection of companies and industries.
The Blue Chip fund now holds shares in more than 1,000
companies. In choosing stocks, he raised his weighting of
technical factors such as trading patterns and volume to 25
percent from 10 percent.  Most important, Reynolds declared he would flee from any
market that began to look like a bubble. He did so in dramatic
fashion starting a week after the  S&P 500  hit its bull-market
high of 1,565.15 on Oct. 9, 2007. After concluding that the
housing market was grossly overpriced and that its collapse
would ripple through the broader economy, he moved 93 percent of
his fund into cash over three months.  Cashing In  Reynolds stayed mostly in cash until the stock market
trough in March 2009, unrepentant even as industry watchers
heaped criticism on him for earning fees while making no
investments.  “I was called a money-market fund in disguise,” he recalls.
“A columnist gave me a ‘lump of coal’ in his annual mutual-fund
ratings.”  Reynolds’s move helped limit his fund’s losses to 5 percent
during 2008 as the S&P 500 plunged 38 percent.  Reynolds first enrolled in the chemical engineering program
at the University of Wisconsin-Madison and switched after two
years to finance. He then went on to get a Master of Business
Administration from the same school. He started his investment
career at the money-management unit of American Express Inc. in
the late 1960s. After a stint at Robertson, Colman & Siebel,
which became Montgomery Securities, he started his own firm in
1985.  ADR Wager  Today, Reynolds is again fully invested in stocks and is
trying to benefit from global growth. He has increased his
exposure to the ADRs of non-U.S. companies to about 13 percent
from 5 percent in 2000.  Reynolds is confident that his revamped investment process
will help him avoid the errors that sent his fund into a
tailspin 10 years ago. “I’m treating what happened back in 2000
as an aberration,” Reynolds says. “I’ve learned from my
mistakes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in  Boston  at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story: Michael
Serrill at   mserrill@bloomberg.net ; Christian
Baumgaertel at   cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 