-- 
Rogers to Start Faster LTE Network in Toronto Sept. 28

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-08-30T20:09:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/rogers-to-start-faster-lte-network-in-toronto-sept-28-1-.html
Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B) ,  Canada ’s
largest mobile carrier, plans to begin service on its faster
network using so-called long-term evolution technology in
Toronto on Sept. 28 to lure more smartphone users.  The carrier is taking preorders from customers for LTE
smartphones and tablets that use  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software,
including the Samsung Galaxy S II handset, Chief Marketing
Officer John Boynton told reporters in Toronto today.  Rogers is counting on the LTE technology to accommodate the
surging popularity of data-intensive smartphones and gain an
edge over rivals  BCE Inc. (BCE)  and  Telus Corp. (T)  Last month, Rogers
reported profit at its wireless business dropped amid growing
competition and a decline in customers’ average monthly bills.  The company announced an LTE pricing plan for its wireless
sticks, used to connect laptops to the Web. A user will pay C$60
($61.30) for 3 gigabytes of data a month, which will
automatically jump to C$75 for up to 6 gigabytes if the user
exceeds the limit, with additional higher price brackets. Rogers
said it will give LTE phone and tablet pricing later this year.  Rogers rose 13 cents to C$37.75 at 4 p.m. in Toronto Stock
Exchange trading. The stock has climbed 9.1 percent this year.  The Toronto-based carrier began the LTE service in Ottawa
last month and plans to extend it to Vancouver and  Montreal 
later this year. The service offers typical download speeds of
12 megabits to 25 megabits per second, Boynton said. Rogers is
currently testing LTE devices with theoretical download speeds
of up to 100 megabits per second, he said.  While customers still mostly watch video on televisions and
browse the Web on computers, there is “more and more
displacement” onto mobile devices, Boynton said. “What we do
see is people being much more comfortable with the technology.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  