-- 
Katia Expected to Become Hurricane

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-08-30T18:23:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/tropical-storm-katia-strengthens-expected-to-become-hurricane.html
Tropical Storm Katia may grow into a
hurricane in the next two days as it moves west-northwest
through the mid-Atlantic Ocean, according to the National
Hurricane Center in Miami.  The storm’s winds increased to 45 miles (72 kilometers) per
hour from 40 mph earlier today as it churned across the Atlantic
about 630 miles west-southwest of  Cape Verde , according to a
center  advisory  issued at about 11 a.m.  New York  time.  “Continued gradual strengthening is forecast and Katia is
expected to become a hurricane by late Wednesday or early
Thursday,” the center said. Its current track and intensity
forecasts have the storm growing into a Category 3 hurricane on
the Saffir-Simpson five-step scale.  Computer forecast models suggest Katia will turn into the
Northern Atlantic, a maneuver meteorologists refer to as
recurving. The move would mean Katia would miss the U.S., which
was struck last weekend by Hurricane Irene, a storm that killed
at least 40, cut power to 8 million homes and businesses and
caused an estimated $2.6 billion in damage.  “Katia is way, way, way out there,” said  Tom Downs , a
meteorologist with Weather 2000 Inc. in New York. “It is
premature to discuss where it is going, but things suggest it
will recurve. Five days from now we will have a better idea.”  Downs said the key will be if Katia drifts to the northwest
as it moves across the ocean. Such a track would suggest the
storm would eventually take a turn and miss the U.S., he said. A
more westerly track might mean trouble, he said.  Named Storms  Katia is the 11th named storm of this  Atlantic hurricane
season , which runs from June 1 to Nov. 30. The average hurricane
season usually produces that total, according to the hurricane
center.  Last year 19 storms formed in the Atlantic and pre-season
forecasts all called for this season to be above average.  The hurricane center is also watching a disorganized band
of thunderstorms in the Caribbean between the Yucatan Peninsula
and Cuba. The area has a 10 percent chance of organizing into a
tropical system in the  Gulf of Mexico  in the next two days,
according to the center.  Earlier today, Commodity Weather Group LLC President  Matt Rogers  said he was watching that system because he believed it
may turn into a tropical depression or tropical storm by the
weekend. He said it was only a 5 percent threat to oil and gas
interests there. The Gulf is home to 31 percent of U.S. oil
output and 7 percent of natural gas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 