-- 
Rusoro to Transfer Gold Assets to Venezuela Venture After Nationalization

-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 
2011-08-30T16:53:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/rusoro-mining-to-form-gold-venture-with-pdvsa-ceo-agapov-says.html
Rusoro Mining Ltd. (RML) , the only
publicly traded gold miner left in  Venezuela , agreed to transfer
its assets to a joint venture with a state-owned company after
President  Hugo Chavez  nationalized the industry.  Rusoro, based in  Vancouver , will transfer gold assets in
Venezuela to the venture with Petroleos de Venezuela SA and own
45 percent of the new company, Chief Executive Officer Andre Agapov said today in a telephone interview. PDVSA, as the
Caracas-based state oil company is called, will own the rest.  “Now, finally there is policy clarity,” Agapov said. “We
will be compensated, and the formula for compensation will be
identical to the way they compensated the petroleum companies in
2006 and 2007. It’s basically book value with some premium.”  Chavez on Aug. 23 said that PDVSA would begin gold mining
operations in the country after nationalizing the industry this
month. The new venture may be able to increase annual production
to 500,000 ounces from 100,000 ounces now within two years of
funding, Agapov said. PDVSA will pay its share of  capital
expenditures  in the venture.  Rusoro fell 7 percent to 13 Canadian cents in Toronto
trading as of 12:10 p.m. New York time. The stock has plunged 68
percent this year.  Possible Projects  Rusoro officials met with Oil Minister  Rafael Ramirez  last
week in Caracas, and a formal agreement may be reached before
year-end, Agapov said. A PDVSA spokesman, who declined to be
named citing company policy, said today that negotiations are
taking place.  “Minister Ramirez said that there would be possibilities
of going jointly into new areas in Venezuela,” Agapov said from
 London . “They would like to develop some other properties
together with us. Once the joint venture is formed, we will have
to develop our strategy.”  The new venture will be able to export gold, he said.  Rusoro has two mines in production and 10 exploration
projects in Venezuela, according to the  company’s website .
Rusoro owns and operates the Choco mill facility and has a 95
percent ownership in the Choco 10 mine. The Isidora mine is a
joint venture with the Venezuelan government.  Rusoro’s second-quarter production fell 37 percent to
15,975 ounces of finished gold from the year-earlier period,
according to an earnings report distributed by Marketwire today.
The company posted a net loss of $9.8 million compared with net
income of $3.3 million, and revenue dropped 48 percent to $26.6
million from the year ago.  PDVSA will form a compensation panel to be led by Eulogio Del Pino, the company’s vice president of exploration and
production, Agapov said.  -- With assistance from Charlie Devereux and Corina Rodriguez Pons in Caracas. Editors: Robin Saponar, Laura Price  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  