-- 
S. Korea’s Lee Names New Unification Minister

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S i m   a n d   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-08-31T04:51:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/s-korea-s-lee-names-new-unification-minister.html
South Korea’s President  Lee Myung Bak  put a former ambassador to China in charge of North Korean
affairs, in a move that may signal an easing of policies toward
Kim Jong Il’s regime before next year’s elections.  Yu Woo Ik takes over from Hyun In Taek as Unification
Minister, Lee’s office said in a statement yesterday. Hyun
helped implement the harder stance toward North Korea that Lee
promised when elected in 2008, and was vilified by state-run
Korea Central News Agency as a “traitor” and inventor of “the
confrontation policy.”  The appointment comes amid signs of a thaw in relations
between the civil war foes, which soured last year over attacks
that killed 50 South Koreans, with the two countries last month
agreeing to try to revive talks on the North’s nuclear weapons.
Lee may also be seeking a more moderate policy as he tries to
restore his party’s popularity before elections next year.  “The relationship with  North Korea  has deteriorated too
much and people think Lee is responsible for that,” said Paik
Hak Soon, director of inter-Korean relations at the Sejong
Institute outside  Seoul . “People are questioning whether the
current policy on North Korea risks creating a military
confrontation at a time when the global economy is in trouble.”  Lee’s approval rating plunged from 76 percent in the first
week he took office in February 2008, to 33 percent last week,
according to Realmeter, a South Korean polling firm in Seoul.
While South Korean presidents are limited to one term in office,
winning back voters will help Lee’s  Grand National Party  in the
general and presidential polls next year.  No More Sunshine  Under Hyun, who was appointed in 2009 and once suggested
abolishing the Unification Ministry,  South Korea  tied aid and
engagement to North Korea’s progress in meeting commitments to
dismantle its nuclear weapons program. That approach rolled back
the “sunshine policy” of engagement with Kim’s regime and
echoed the policy set out by U.S. President  Barack Obama  of not
rewarding “bad behavior.”  Hyun’s policies revealed his “true colors as a traitor
to the nation and an anti-reunification maniac” eager to
“ignite a war,” KCNA said last month, accusing him of
“unpardonable acts of treachery.”  Yu, 61, is expected to play an “important role” in
pursuing a peaceful unification policy and improving relations
with North Korea as he served as President Lee’s first chief of
staff and especially as a former ambassador to  China , the
presidential office said in a statement yesterday.  ‘Flexibly’  Yu was ambassador to China from December 2009 to May this
year, and Lee’s chief of staff in 2008. He said today that his
appointment won’t mark a change in policy toward North Korea,
though he may seek ways to deal more “flexibly” with it,
according to Yonhap News.  “Yu may be able to do something to improve relations with
North Korea as he is close to President Lee and the Chinese
government,” Yang Moo Jin, a professor at the University of
North Korean Studies in Seoul, said before the reshuffle.
“North Korea may see Yu’s appointment as a possible signal for
a change in President Lee’s hard-line stance against it.”  The North Korean leader visited China four times in the
past two years. China is the regime’s biggest benefactor,
accounting for 83 percent of the North’s $4.2 billion in trade
last year, according to the Seoul-based Korea Trade-Investment
Promotion Agency. The North doesn’t release its own data.  Wu Dawei , China’s chief envoy to international talks on
North Korea’s nuclear program, met with his South Korean
counterpart Wi Sung Lac last week, China’s foreign affairs
ministry said in a statement posted on its website.  Envoys from North and South Korea agreed last month to try
to revive the talks. North Korean officials were subsequently
invited to the U.S. for preliminary discussions.  ‘Path Is Open’  “We reiterated that the path is open to North Korea
towards the resumption of talks, improved relations with the
 United States , and greater regional stability, if North Korea
demonstrates through its actions that it supports the resumption
of the six-party process as a committed and constructive
partner,” U.S. Special Representative for North Korea Policy
Stephen Bosworth said.  While the North has called for the talks to reopen, South
Korea said an apology for the two attacks last year must come
first, a condition North Korea has yet to meet. Kim last week
met with Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  in Siberia.  The six-party negotiations, which last convened in December
2008, include the U.S., China,  Japan  and  Russia .  The North shelled a South Korean island in November,
killing four people, and was blamed for sinking the Cheonan
warship in March 2010, in which 46 sailors died.  Lee replaced his defense minister and army head following
the shelling, vowing to strengthen the military and respond more
harshly to any further North Korean attacks. South and North
Korea remain technically at war after their 1950-1953 conflict
ended in a cease-fire.  Three ministers were also replaced in the reshuffle. Rim
Che Min replaces Chin Soo Hee as health and welfare minister,
Choe Kwang Sik takes over from Choung Byoung Guk as culture
minister and Kim Kum Lae will succeed Paik Hee Young as  gender
equality  and family minister, according to yesterday’s
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Sim in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  