-- 
Samsung-Apple, Mylan, Gannett, Oxus Gold, Marriage: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-08-30T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/samsung-mylan-gannett-oxus-gold-intellectual-property.html
Samsung Electronics Co. agreed to
push back the introduction of its newest tablet computer in
 Australia  until the end of next month, the second delay in a
month in its dispute with Apple Inc. in the country.  Samsung will defer the launch of the Galaxy 10.1 tablet
computer pending a hearing scheduled the week of Sept. 26. on
Apple’s request for an injunction, the Suwon, South Korea-based
electronics maker said in a statement. David Catterns, an
attorney representing Samsung, said his client is prepared to
wait until the end of September.  The decision comes four weeks after Samsung first agreed to
hold off on the Australian debut of the product. The two
companies, the world’s two biggest makers of tablet computers,
are also locked in legal disputes in markets including the U.S.,
Germany and  South Korea .  Samsung will continue to push for the release of the
product in Australia to “ensure that consumers have a wider
selection of innovative products to choose from,” it said in an
e-mailed statement.  Samsung agreed at an Aug. 2 hearing to hold off on sales of
the 10.1 tablet after Apple claimed the device infringed 10 of
its patents, including the “look and feel” of the iPad.  Samsung said the claim was based on a U.S. model and the
Australian version was different. The company last week provided
Apple’s legal team with three samples of the 10.1 version
intended to be sold in Australia, Steven Burley, an attorney
representing Apple, told Federal Court Justice Annabelle Bennett
yesterday.  Burley said the Australian model, which has “reduced
functionality,” still violates at least two of Apple’s patents.
Samsung’s Catterns said the Australian model has “different
features” and doesn’t have “reduced functionality.”  The lawyers agreed to two days of hearings on Apple’s
request for an injunction barring the sale of the 10.1 tablet in
Australia until the resolution of the dispute, which may take
months. The hearings are scheduled for Sept. 26 and 29.  The agreement to halt advertising and the sale of the 10.1
tablet doesn’t affect any other Samsung tablet or smartphone
available in Australia, or other countries, the company said
following the Aug. 2 hearing.  A German judge said on Aug. 25 that Apple’s intellectual
rights are probably strong enough to ban the sales of the 10.1
tablet in that country.  In the U.S., Samsung is arguing that the design for the
iPad can be traced back to the Stanley Kubrick 1969 film “2001:
A Space Odyssey.”  The case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Samsung Electronics Co.
NSD1243/2011. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  Apple’s Legal Team Gets Smaller After Bridges’ Withdrawal  A part of Apple Inc.’s legal team representing the
Cupertino, California-based company in a trademark dispute with
Samsung Electronics Ltd. has withdrawn from the case, according
to a court filing.  Samsung asked the court in a July 11 court filing to
discharge  Bridges & Mavrakakis LLP , of  Palo Alto ,  California ,
from the case because of the firm’s previous representation of
Samsung. The firm filed papers with the court Aug. 25 saying it
would withdraw from the representation of Apple in the dispute.  The Suwon, South Korea-based company said lawyers from
Bridges & Mavrakakis represented Samsung in a different
infringement case involving one of the patents at issue in the
Apple dispute. Bridges & Mavrakakis lawyers have worked almost
9,000 hours on Samsung patent litigation, according to the court
filing.  In the past, Samsung said, lawyers from the firm “received
confidential information from Samsung that is substantially
related to this action.” As a result, an “irreconcilable
conflict of interest required Bridges & Mavrakakis to be
disqualified from representing Apple in this case,” Samsung
said.  Samsung said it had, to no avail, met with the firm “on
multiple occasions” to attempt to resolve the conflict issue.
The Korean company had argued that it was concerned about
whether Bridges & Mavrakakis had confidential information, “not
whether they would use it.”  According to the case docket, Apple continues to be
represented by lawyers from San Francisco-based Morrison &
Foerster LLP.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co.,
11-cv-1846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
( San Jose ).  Mylan Motion to Dismiss Teva Patent Suit Denied by Judge  Mylan Inc.’s motion to dismiss a patent lawsuit by  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  over the multiple-sclerosis drug
Copaxone was dismissed by a federal judge.  U.S. District Judge Barbara Jones dismissed Mylan’s claim
that Teva’s patent for the drug was invalid, according to a
filing yesterday in federal court. A trial on the patent
infringement case in  Manhattan  is set to begin Sept. 7.  Teva, which licensed patents from Yeda Research and
Development Co. for Copaxone, sued  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Sandoz in 2008
and Mylan in 2009 after they separately tried to win approvals
from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to market generic
versions of the drug before its patents expired in 2014.  Jones consolidated the cases. An earlier motion by Sandoz
to dismiss the patent claim as invalid was also rejected. The
Sandoz case is Teva Phamaceutical Industries Ltd. v. Sandoz
Inc., 08-7611, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New
York  (Manhattan). The Mylan case is Teva Pharmaceuticals
Industries Ltd. v. Mylan Inc., 09-8824, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Gannett Lacks Copyright to Streaming School Sports Broadcast  Gannett Co., owner of television stations and 82
newspapers, lost its copyright claims over streaming-video
presentation of  Wisconsin  high school sports programs.  The McLean, Virginia-based newspaper chain, was appealing a
ruling from a trial court in Wisconsin that found the Wisconsin
Interscholastic Athletic Association’s exclusive license
agreements with a video production company didn’t violate
Gannett’s First Amendment rights.  The dispute arose when some Gannett newspapers decided to
stream four tournament games sponsored by the Wisconsin
Interscholastic Athletic Association. The association then asked
the federal court to declare it had the right to grant exclusive
licenses. Gannet had argued unsuccessfully that WIAA can’t enter
into exclusive contract with a private company to broadcast
entire events online, or, to raise revenue.  The appeals court said in its August 24 opinion that the
implications of Gannett’s arguments were “staggering,” and
that if the media company was correct, “then no state actor may
ever earn revenue from something that the press might want to
broadcast in its entirety.  If Gannett’s arguments were carried to their logical
extreme, the appeals court said the patent licensing agreements
executed by the University of Wisconsin through the Wisconsin
Alumni Research Foundation -- and the $1.07 billion such
licenses have brought the university since 21928 could be at
risk.  “Gannett’s claim here would cast a shadow over the
commercial licensees that WARF sells but implying that the First
Amendment required it to dedicate its inventions to the
public,” the court said in its opinion. Likewise, the ability
of high school students to record CDs and sell them to finance a
school music program would also be at risk. “These examples
could be multiplied almost endlessly,” the court said.  The court said that reporting on the event and streaming it
aren’t the same thing. “Everyone understands there is a
difference between a description of an event like the  Super
Bowl , Women’s World Cup or the College World Series and the
right both to videotape that entertainment and then to publish
it as one sees fit,” according to the appeals court’s opinion.  As far as Gannett’s copyright claim is concerned, the
appeals court said that the WIAA itself is functioning as the
creator and disseminator of content, not the newspapers.  The court the lower court’s holding that the WIAA has the
right to grant exclusive licenses.  The lower court case is Wisconsin Interscholastic Athletic
Association v. Wisconsin Newspaper Association Inc.,
3:09-cv-00155-WMC, U.S. District Court, Western District of
Wisconsin (Madison). The appeal is Wisconsin Interscholastic
Athletic Association v. Gannett, 10-2627,  U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the Seventh Circuit.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Oxus Gold Metallurgist Gets 12-year Sentence in Uzbekistan  A former employee of the London-based mining company  Oxus
Gold Plc (OXS)  has been sentenced to 12 years in prison for allegedly
committing industrial espionage, the Voice of America  reported .  Said Ashurov, chief metallurgist at a joint venture between
Oxus Gold and Uzbekistan authorities, was convicted by a
military court, following his arrest in March when he was trying
to cross the border into Tajikistan, according to Voice of
America.  A lawyer representing Oxus Gold said the charges against
Ashurov are fabricated, and the metallurgist, who has health
issues, could die in prison without proper health care, Voice of
American reported.  Oxus Gold ended the operation of its joint venture in March
following what the  BBC  said were “months of tensions with
Uzbekistan’s authorities.”  Court Says Company Can’t Fire Employee Over Marriage  An employment tribunal in  Germany ’s state of Schleswig-
Holsten has told a German company that its firing of an engineer
for marrying a Chinese woman wasn’t justified by the company’s
fear of resulting industrial espionage, the BBC  reported .  The unnamed company, a supplier for the German military,
suspended the engineer for security reasons three months after
his December 2009 wedding, and fired him three months after
that, according to the BBC.  The court said the employer violated the employee’s right
to marry the person of his choice, and the alleged security risk
posed by the marriage wasn’t supported by facts, the BBC
reported.  Court reports don’t identify the engineer or his company,
according to the BBC.  Trademark  Mississippi  Sets Up Site Where Counterfeit Goods Can Be Reported  The State of Mississippi, through the Office of the
Attorney General, has set up a website that is part of a
campaign against counterfeit goods.  The website for the Mississippi  Intellectual Property  Crime
Center --  http://mipcc.ago.state.ms.us/  -- was established with
the assistance of a grant from the U.s. Department of Justice.
Aim of the site is to inform the public about IP crimes and
their effects on the world.  The site has a section on fakes, with  photos of counterfeit
goods . It also provides citizens with a place to which they can
 give anonymous tips  about sale of possible counterfeit items.  According to  the Mississippi Intellectual Property Crime
Center, the sale of counterfeit goods can be linked to drug
trafficking, organized crime, terrorist activity, gang violence,
child labor and life-threatening health issues.  Thailand ,  Cambodia  Both Claim Dance Gesture as Cultural Icon  Both Thailand and Cambodia are laying claim to a hand
gesture used in traditional dance and shadow places as an
intangible culture heritage item, the  Bangkok Post reported .  The gesture, known as the “ jeeb ” and created by touching
the thumb with the index finger and splaying the other three
fingers, has been registered by Cambodia with the  United Nations
Educational Scientific and Cultural Organization , according to
the Bangkok Post.  Because it hasn’t ratified the Convention for Safeguarding
Intangible Cultural Heritage allowing it to submit cultural
heritage items to UNESCO for  listing as cultural treasures ,
Thailand has, so far, only begun compiling a list, according to
the Bangkok Post.  Thailand’s Culture Minister Sukumol Khunploem told the
Bangkok Post that Cambodia hasn’t “stolen” the jeeb to claim
it exclusively because “it is normal for countries in the same
region to share similar cultural traits.”  For more trademark news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  