-- 
HSBC’s Swiss Private Bank Profit Falls 33% on Expenses, Franc

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-08-30T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/hsbc-s-swiss-private-bank-profit-falls-33-on-expenses-franc.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ’s Swiss private
bank said first-half profit declined by a third as rising costs
and the burden of a strong Swiss franc outweighed an increase in
new money from emerging markets.  Profit after tax fell to 205 million francs ($249 million)
from 304 million francs a year-earlier after the firm spent more
on information security, regulatory compliance and staff, the
Geneva-based bank said today in a presentation. The appreciation
of the Swiss currency reduced income from dollar - and euro-
denominated funds.  “We’re earning less,” the unit’s Chief Executive Officer
Alexandre Zeller told reporters. “It’s principally because of
exchange rate changes, given we have a very large proportion of
foreign clients. Compliance costs are rising considerably.”  HSBC continued to attract new money outside of  Europe 
following a 2009 outflow after Hervé Falciani, a former software
technician in Geneva, stole details on at least 24,000 accounts.
The French government has used the data to search for tax
dodgers and shared the information with Italian prosecutors.  Swiss banks are focusing on building onshore networks amid
a global crackdown on offshore banking. The Alpine country
completed agreements with the U.K. and  Germany  this month that
will tax assets in Swiss accounts at similar rates to U.K. and
German domestic levies, while client identities remain secret.  First-half outflows from European clients were
“considerable,” Zeller said, without providing a figure. “At
our bank they’re regularizing not only because of the situation
in Europe but because of the  data theft .”  Stronger Franc  Clients based mainly in  Asia ,  Africa  and the  Middle East 
added net new money of 6.2 billion francs, the bank reported.
That figure includes 1.7 billion francs of funds loaned to
clients by HSBC to leverage their investments.  Managed assets declined to 177 billion francs from 186.4
billion francs over the six months through June 1. On a constant
exchange rate basis assets rose 3 percent during the period,
HSBC said.  The stronger franc helped drive up operating expenses,
worsening its Geneva private bank’s cost efficiency ratio to 66
percent from 56 percent a year earlier.  The franc has gained 5.7 percent against the euro this year
as investors have sought a safe haven from the region’s debt
problems. Against the dollar the franc has surged 14 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly in Paris at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  