-- 
HSH Nordbank Sells Private-Equity Portfolio to Axa, LGT

-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n   a n d   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 
2011-08-30T15:32:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/hsh-nordbank-sells-private-equity-portfolio-to-axa-lgt-1-.html
HSH Nordbank AG, a regional German
lender bailed out during the global financial crisis, sold 620
million euros ($894 million) of private-equity assets in a move
to free up capital.  Private-equity firms Axa Private Equity, the buyout fund
manager owned by French insurer  Axa SA (CS) , and LGT Capital Partners
Ltd., a Swiss fund of funds manager are buying the portfolio,
which includes stakes in 47 so-called limited partnerships, HSH
Nordbank said in a statement today. They’re acquiring the assets
at a discount close to 10 percent to net asset value recorded at
the end of June, said a person with knowledge of the matter, who
declined to be identified because the terms are private.  Officials at the Hamburg-based company and Axa Private
Equity declined to comment on the sale price of the holdings. A
spokeswoman for LGT couldn’t immediately comment.  HSH Nordbank follows Barclays Plc, Citigroup Inc., Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc and Credit Agricole SA in seeking to
sell holdings in leveraged buyout funds as lenders are forced by
regulators to hold more capital in reserve against their
riskiest assets. The sale was part of measures by HSH to sell
operations that aren’t regarded as main businesses, cut jobs,
and shutter international offices to win European Union approval
for its bailout.  ‘Further Progress’  “HSH Nordbank is making further progress with the
reduction of non-strategic portfolios,” the bank said today.  The German states of Hamburg and Schleswig-Holstein
provided 3 billion euros in capital and 10 billion euros in
guarantees to cover potential losses at the lender during the
crisis. It also tapped  Germany ’s Soffin bank-rescue fund for 17
billion euros in guarantees.  The acquisition is the third in three months by Paris-based
Axa Private Equity, following its purchase of $1.7 billion of
fund stakes from New York-based Citigroup Inc. and 460 million
pounds ($750 million) of assets from Barclays Plc, both deals
announced in June.  Axa Private Equity is among firms raising money to take
advantage of banks selling private-equity stakes. It had
received $2.5 billion in commitments for its new fund by the end
of May, a person with knowledge of the matter said at the time.
The Paris-based company is seeking to amass more than $3.5
billion for the new pool, the person said.  “We estimate between $40 billion to $50 billion of bank
assets will come up for sale,” Vincent Gombault, managing
director of Axa Private Equity’s funds of funds business, said
in a separate statement today.  HSH Nordbank reported net income of 337 million euros in
the first half after loan-loss provisions dropped, it said on
Aug. 26. The lender plans to cut an additional 900 jobs by 2014,
divest its airplane and international real-estate financing
divisions and close its offices in Amsterdam, Paris and  Shanghai 
in return for bailout approval, it said then.  To contact the reporters on this story: Niklas Magnusson in
Hamburg at   nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net ; Anne-
Sylvaine Chassany in Paris at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  