-- 
China’s Sina Buys $66.4 Million Tudou Stake to Expand in Online Video

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-08-30T05:33:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/sina-buys-66-4-million-stake-in-china-s-tudou-to-expand-in-online-video.html
Sina Corp., owner of  China ’s third-
most popular website, paid $66.4 million for a stake in Tudou
Holdings Ltd. to boost its investments in online video services.  Sina acquired 1.075 million American depositary receipts at
Shanghai-based Tudou’s initial public offering in the U.S. this
month for $31.2 million, it said in a filing to the Securities
and Exchanges Commission yesterday. Sina spent $35.2 million for
an additional 1.49 million Tudou ADRs, after the listing, taking
the total holding to 9.05 percent, according to the filing.  Sina is adding video, social-networking and electronic
commerce services to attract users in the world’s biggest
Internet market. The investment in Tudou, China’s second-biggest
video website, follows Sina’s acquisition of a minority stake in
online apparel retailer Mecox Lane Ltd. this year.  Tudou is open to “strategic business cooperation in
multiple areas” with Sina, it said in an e-mailed statement
today. Sina’s investment is “financial” in nature, Tudou said.  Sina, based in  Shanghai , said in May it plans to spend $100
million to develop its Weibo microblogging service to attract
social-networking users.  Tudou has declined about 11 percent in trading on the
Nasdaq stock market since its $174 million IPO.  ADRs Climb  Tudou ADRs rose 2.5 percent to $25.73 in U.S. trading
yesterday, compared with their IPO price of $29. The company
said it plans to use proceeds from its listing to acquire video
content and upgrade technology, as competition with bigger rival
 Youku.com Inc. (YOKU)  intensifies.  Gary Wang, founder and chief executive officer at Tudou,
had his stake in the video company cut to 8.6 percent from 12.7
percent following the IPO, according to Tudou’s prospectus.  Tudou’s site offers movies, TV series and content it
produces, as well as user-generated videos such as are found on
Google Inc.’s YouTube.  Tudou accounted for 14 percent of online-video advertising
revenue in China at the end of June, compared with 17 percent at
the end of 2010, while Youku gained two percentage points to 23
percent and  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU) ’s video site jumped to 13 percent from
7.9 percent, according to data from Analysys International.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  