-- 
Sino-Forest Insiders Including Ex-CEO Sold $83 Million of Shares Since ’06

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-08-31T15:04:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/sino-forest-insiders-including-ex-ceo-sold-83-million-of-shares-since-06.html
Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE)  insiders,
including former Chief Executive Officer  Allen Chan , sold C$81
million ($83 million) of shares since the end of 2006,
regulatory filings show.  Chan, who stepped down Aug. 28 after the Ontario Securities
Commission suspended trading in Sino-Forest, sold C$3 million of
stock, the filings show. Kai Kit Poon, with whom Chan founded
the tree-plantation company in 1992, sold more than C$30.1
million. Chief Financial Officer David Horsley sold C$11.2
million of shares. Simon Murray, a director and also chairman of
Glencore International Plc, sold $10.8 million.  The OSC,  Canada ’s main securities regulator, said Aug. 26
that officers and directors of Hong Kong- and Mississauga,
Ontario-based Sino-Forest may have engaged in acts “related to
its securities” that they “knew or should have known”
perpetuated a fraud. Two days earlier billionaire investor
Richard Chandler, the company’s biggest shareholder, increased
his stake, filings also show.  Sino-Forest has tumbled 67 percent in Toronto since short
seller Carson Block’s  Muddy Waters  LLC research firm said in a
June 2 report that the company was overstating its assets.
Shareholders have lost C$3.3 billion. Hedge-fund firm Paulson &
Co., formerly Sino-Forest’s biggest shareholder, told clients
that it sold its entire stake in June after losing C$462 million
on the investment.  Stan Neve, an external spokesman for Sino-Forest in  New
York , declined to comment.  Independent Committee  The company has denied Muddy Waters’ allegations and
established an independent committee of directors to examine and
respond to the accusations. The company said Aug. 16 the probe
would take until the end of the year to complete. The OSC on
Aug. 26 demanded Chan and four other executives resign, before
rescinding the order later that day because the regulator needed
to hold a hearing first.  Four of the five Sino-Forest executives named -- Chan,
Albert Ip, Alfred Hung and George Ho -- sold a combined C$11.6
million of common shares since the end of 2006, filings show.  In announcing Chan’s resignation on Aug. 28, Sino-Forest
also said three other employees had taken leave after “certain
information” was uncovered by the committee.  Chandler, a New Zealander who Forbes said last year had a
net worth of $3.1 billion, bought 1.2 million shares of Sino-
Forest Corp. on Aug. 24 at C$4.65 apiece, filings show. The
purchases increased his holdings to 48 million shares, or 20
percent of the company.  Shares Halted  Richard Barton, an external spokesman for Chandler,
declined to comment.  Sino-Forest closed at C$4.81 on the Toronto Stock Exchange
on Aug. 25, the last day before trading was halted. The shares
plunged 72 percent to $1.38 in U.S. over-the-counter dealing on
Aug. 26, the last day of trading before they too were halted,
giving the company a market value of $338.4 million.  The value of Sino-Forest’s bonds has fallen to about 17
cents on the dollar in a base-case scenario and 1-cent in a
downside view, Annisa Lee, a Nomura Holdings Inc. credit
analyst, said in a report, according to the Globe and Mail
newspaper.  Standard & Poor’s  said yesterday that Sino-Forest no longer
qualifies to be a constituent of the benchmark S&P/TSX Composite
Index. The company will be removed from the index at zero price
after the close of trading on Sept. 16, S&P said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 