-- 
A Few Fed Policy Makers Favored ‘More Substantial’ Move

-- B y   J e a n n i n e   A v e r s a   a n d   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-08-30T20:12:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/some-fed-policy-makers-favored-more-substantial-move-at-aug-9-meeting.html
A few Federal Reserve policy makers
this month favored more aggressive action to stimulate the
economy and lower unemployment, minutes of their meeting
released today showed.  Those members, who weren’t identified, “felt that recent
economic developments justified a more substantial move” beyond
the pledge adopted at the Aug. 9 meeting of the  Federal Open
Market Committee  to hold its key  interest rate  at a record low
until mid-2013.  Stocks rallied on bets the minutes indicated growing
support among Fed policy makers for further steps to bolster a
recovery hobbled by unemployment stuck above 9 percent. Consumer
confidence fell to the lowest point in 28 months in August, a
report earlier today showed, raising the risk households will
cut back on the spending that accounts for 70 percent of the
world's largest economy.  Fed officials discussed a range of tools, including buying
more government bonds, to bolster the economy, without coming to
an agreement on what they might do next should the economy
weaken further. They will more fully debate their options when
they gather next month for a two-day meeting that was originally
scheduled to last one day.  “The odds are rising that we will see more action to aid
the economy at the September meeting,” said  James O’Sullivan ,
chief economist at MF Global Inc. in  New York .  Next Move  He is among economists who said the Fed’s next move
probably will be to replace short-term  Treasury securities  in
its $1.65 trillion portfolio with longer-term securities. That
would tend to push down rates on mortgages and other long-term
debt.  While Fed policy makers meeting this month didn’t
anticipate a recession, several said the recovery was “still
somewhat tentative” and was “vulnerable to adverse shocks.”  The  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index rose 0.2 percent to
1,212.90 at 4 p.m. in New York after declining as much as 1.2
percent. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 2.18
percent from 2.26 percent late yesterday.  At the August meeting, the Fed staff cut its estimate for
gross domestic product in the second half of 2011. That was the
fourth consecutive downward revision to its near-term outlook,
the longest series of downward revisions since the recovery
began two years ago. The staff also cut its 2012 outlook and
lowered its appraisal of the economy’s potential growth rate.  Stock Rout  Fed officials said a stock-market rout leading up to the
August meeting “mostly” reflected data pointing to weaker
economic growth in the U.S. and around the globe. The stock
declines occurred as U.S. lawmakers debated raising the debt
limit to avert a possible default and the country’s credit
rating was lowered by Standard & Poor’s.  This month’s decision to specify a time period for the
Fed’s low-rate pledge, replacing an earlier commitment to keep
borrowing costs near zero for an “extended period,” generated
the most dissent of Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s tenure.  Some officials argued that the Fed should have linked its
pledge to achieving “explicit values” on the nation’s
unemployment rate or an inflation rate.  Doing so would help investors and the public better
understand the Fed’s “likely reaction to future economic
developments,” they said. Others raised questions about how
such a target would be chosen. In the end, the Fed didn’t adopt
one.  Excess Reserves  Besides buying  government bonds , the Fed could cut the 0.25
percent interest rate it pays bank on the $1.6 trillion in
excess reserves parked at the Fed. It also could replace
shorter-term securities with longer maturities, which may help
lower interest rates on mortgages and other long-term debt. The
Fed also could pledge to keep its balance sheet near a record
$2.86 trillion for an “extended period” or for a specific time
period.  In contrast, some Fed officials “judged that none of the
tools available” to the Fed “would likely do much to promote a
faster economic recovery,” the minutes said. These officials
were concerned that providing additional stimulus would risk
boosting inflation without providing a “significant benefit”
to bolstering economic growth or lowering unemployment.  The vote at the Aug. 9 meeting was 7-3.  Richard Fisher ,
president of the Dallas Fed,  Charles Plosser  of Philadelphia and
Narayana Kocherlakota of the  Minneapolis Fed  all dissented. The
last time three FOMC voters dissented was on Nov. 17, 1992,
under Bernanke’s predecessor,  Alan Greenspan .  May Not Dissent  Kocherlakota, in a speech today, signaled he may not
dissent again from the 2013 interest-rate pledge on its own.  “Undoing this commitment in the near term would undercut
the ability of the committee to offer similar conditional
commitments in the future -- and this ability has certainly
proved very useful in the past three years,” he said.  Bernanke, in his Aug. 26 speech at the central bank’s
 Jackson Hole , Wyoming, economic symposium, said the central bank
still has tools to boost growth, without specifying what they
were or whether they would be deployed.  Last year, the Fed chief used his Jackson Hole speech to
lay the groundwork for a second round of bond purchases, also
known as quantitative easing. The central bank decided in
November to buy $600 billion of Treasuries through June 2011,
following the $1.7 trillion first round of purchases that
concluded in March 2010.  Policy Limits  The Fed “will certainly do all that it can to help restore
high rates of growth and employment in a context of  price
stability ,” Bernanke said last week. At the same time, he said
there are limits to how much the Fed can do: “Most of the
economic policies that support robust economic growth in the
long run are outside the province of the central bank,”
Bernanke said.  The Conference Board said today its  consumer-confidence 
index slumped to 44.5, the weakest since April 2009, from a
revised 59.2 reading in July. It was the biggest point drop
since October 2008. Low confidence is likely to weigh on
 consumer spending  in the coming months, Fed officials said.  The U.S. government reported Aug. 26 that the world’s
largest economy grew less than previously estimated in the
second quarter, capping the weakest six months of the recovery
that began in mid-2009. Gross domestic product climbed at a 1
percent annual rate, compared with an initial estimate of 1.3
percent growth.  Other economic reports this week on the labor market and
manufacturing may point to further weakness in the economy.  Hiring May Slow  Hiring probably slowed in August, with payrolls expanding
by 75,000 after an increase of 117,000 in July, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists ahead
of a Sept. 2 Labor Department report. Unemployment stayed at 9.1
percent, according to the survey.  Fed officials noted that “overall labor market conditions
had deteriorated in recent months,” the minutes said.  A Sept. 1 report from the Institute for Supply Management
may show that manufacturing contracted in August for the first
time in two years, according to another Bloomberg survey.  Kelly Services Inc., a provider of temporary staffing
services, said this month that its clients are neither scaling
back nor planning major increases in near-term hiring.  “It’s clear we have hit a soft patch, but the recovery has
not ground to a halt,” Carl T. Camden, chief executive officer
of the Troy, Michigan-based company, said on an Aug. 10
conference call. “Although the recovery is slow and somewhat
erratic, we believe it is sustainable.”  Undisclosed Meeting  The Fed also held a previously undisclosed Aug. 1 meeting
via videoconference to discuss the implications of failing to
raise the  U.S. debt  limit or a downgrade of the nation’s credit
rating.  “Participants generally anticipated that there would be no
need to make changes to existing bank regulations, the operation
of the discount window, or the conduct of open-market
operations,” the minutes said.  Standard & Poor’s for the first time lowered its rating on
U.S. debt four days later to AA+ from the top grade, AAA.  The Fed also said that inflation had moderated in recent
months after being elevated earlier this year. The Fed said
there was “little evidence of pricing power among firms” and
that “inflation was likely to decline somewhat over time.”  Preferred Gauge  The Fed’s preferred inflation gauge, which excludes food
and energy, rose 1.6 percent in July from a year earlier, the
Commerce Department said yesterday. That’s the fourth straight
monthly acceleration and the fastest since May 2010.  The next FOMC meeting will conclude Sept. 21 instead of
starting and finishing Sept. 20. Previous two-day meetings have
seen a higher probability of steps to cut borrowing costs,
economists at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said last week. St. Louis
Fed President  James Bullard  said adding a second day to the
September meeting allows more time to review easing options,
though rising inflation may prevent action in the near term.  “If the economy is weaker and the inflation picture
moderates, we could consider more action,” Bullard said Aug. 26
in a Bloomberg Radio interview in Jackson Hole. “The call is
much more difficult this year than last year. We have a much
different inflation situation than last year,” when Fed
officials were concerned about the risk of a general decline in
prices.  The minutes are compiled by the Fed’s Division of Monetary
Affairs and approved by all governors and regional Fed
presidents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
Jeannine Aversa in Washington at 
 javersa@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  