-- 
Sony Plays Tablet Catchup as Samsung Gets Ahead of IPhone 5

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-08-31T16:44:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/sony-plays-tablet-catchup-as-samsung-gets-ahead-of-next-iphone.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) 
will show tablets and handsets while Samsung Electronics Co.
tries to steal a march on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s next iPhone model at
Berlin’s annual consumer electronics fair this week.  LG, the world’s third-biggest maker of mobile phones, based
in Seoul, will show its Optimus 3D handset that can connect to
televisions and double as a games controller at  IFA . Tokyo-based
Sony, the last electronics giant to bring tablets to the market,
today unveiled prices for its first  models , including a compact
foldable tablet that can download PlayStation Suite games.  IFA, previously a showcase of home appliances from TVs to
fridges, has become a battleground for manufacturers to woo
European consumers to wireless gadgets. Sales of smartphones
that allow users to watch live sports events and play games will
rise 56 percent to 468 million units this year, making them one
of the few bright spots of the consumer electronics market,
estimates by Stamford, Connecticut-based Gartner Inc. show.  “Competition is intense, market shares are in flux and
that means companies have to try to make an impression on
consumers,” said Antje Stobbe, head of technology research at
Deutsche Bank AG in Frankfurt. “It’s important to position
yourself in these markets because they are the future.”  Fighting IPads  Falling demand for games consoles and TVs have forced
Nintendo Co. and Sony to cut prices and slash profit forecasts.
Royal Philips Electronics NV earlier this year ceded control of
its 80-year-old TV unit to Hong Kong-based TPV Technology Ltd.  Sony,  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  and  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  said today they will
merge their liquid-crystal display businesses, a deal that may
create the biggest maker of LCDs for mobile phones and cameras.  Products introduced at last year’s IFA included Samsung’s
Galaxy Tab and Toshiba’s Folio 100 tablet computer. While those
products have helped win some customers in a tablet market that
is set to triple in value to $30.6 billion this year, Apple will
dominate with a share of 73 percent by value, compared with 88
percent in 2010, according to Strategy Analytics estimates.  Samsung, Apple Inc.’s biggest competitor in smartphones and
tablets, and  HTC Corp. (2498) ,  Asia ’s second-largest maker of handset
with computer-like features, will showcase next-generation
handsets in Berlin to grab consumer attention before Apple
unveils its iPhone 5.  Samsung vs HTC  A link on Windows Phone’s  Facebook  page to HTC events in
 Berlin  and  London  has fueled expectations that the devices the
Taiwanese company will unveil this week will run on  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows Phone operating system. Susanne Nguyen, an
external spokeswoman for HTC in Munich, declined to comment.  Apple, whose Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  announced
his resignation last week, traditionally doesn’t attend the IFA
exhibition. The iPhone, introduced in 2007, has become Apple’s
best-selling product and turned the company into the world’s
largest smartphone maker.  “In the mid-term they are going to defend the position,
but the others are coming up quite fast in terms of quality and
in terms of variation as well,” said Wafa Moussavi-Amin, a
Frankfurt-based managing director of researcher IDC.  The Saturn electronics store in Frankfurt’s main shopping
street Zeil illustrates the stiff competition. Of the 14 Samsung
smartphones on display, six cost less than 200 euros ($288)
without contracts. The store carries 10 HTC smartphones, two
selling for less than that price.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and  Sony Ericsson 
had 12 devices on display, while LG had four.  HTC is targeting consumers such as Tim, a 16-year-old high
school student from Frankfurt, who is considering a replacement
for his iPhone 3GS phone.  Young Customers  “If I look at my iPhone 3GS and compare it with today’s
HTC phones, it’s clear how far ahead the HTCs are, and that in
such a short timeframe,” said Tim, declining to give his last
name, as he browsed for a new device at Saturn. “It helps that
they update their models so frequently. If I had to choose
between the iPhone 4 and a HTC phone, I’d go with HTC.”  Samsung, which is stepping up the creation of applications
for its Bada software used on lower-priced smartphones, last
week introduced phones to target emerging markets and younger
consumers. In the same week, Nokia unveiled three mass-market
smartphones starting at 180 euros.  Huawei Technologies Co. is also taking aim at entry-level
users with a prepaid version of its Ideos X3 smartphone that
will go on sale at German discount store Lidl this week for
99.99 euros.  Shares Trail Apple  “Their target is to get a huge market share of the still
growing smartphone market,” Klaus Boehm, director of media at
Deloitte in Dusseldorf, said in an interview. “They need to
position themselves with young consumers that are not interested
in huge mobile contracts.”  Samsung added 0.3 percent to 744,000 won at the close of
trading in  Seoul . LG jumped 4.1 percent to 66,600 won. HTC fell
0.8 percent in  Taiwan . Samsung has fallen 22 percent this year.
LG was down 44 percent, HTC dropped 12 percent and Sony lost 43
percent of its value.  Cupertino, California-based Apple jumped 21 percent in the
same period. The shares fell $3.35 to $386.64 as of 12:37 p.m.
in  New York .  Sony said today it will begin selling its first tablet
computers from the end of September in  Europe . The Tablets S
will cost 479 euros ($690) in Europe, it said in a presentation
at IFA. The Tablet P, a compact foldable tablet, will be
available in Europe from November for 599 euros.  IPad Prices  As a latecomer to the tablet market, CEO  Howard Stringer 
plans to differentiate from rival devices by adding the ability
to download PlayStation Suite games, movies and music from its
subscription services.  “We will prove that it’s not who makes the tablet first who
counts but who makes it better,” Stringer told a press
conference in Berlin.  Demand for the tablets could be curtailed if they’re priced
too high, Jeff Loff, an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd., wrote
in a note yesterday, citing a price level of $600. Apple’s iPad
2 costs from $499 on the apple.com store. In  Germany , iPad 2 
starts at 479 euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in  Frankfurt  at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  