-- 
Soquimich Profit Rises as Higher Potash Prices Boost Sales

-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n   a n d   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 
2011-08-30T22:58:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/soquimich-profit-rises-as-higher-potash-prices-boost-sales-1-.html
Soc. Quimica y Minera de Chile SA ,
the country’s biggest fertilizer producer known as Soquimich,
posted a 26 percent increase in second-quarter profit after
higher prices pushed up sales.  Net income increased to $132 million from $105 million in
the same three months last year, the company, based in Santiago,
said in a statement on the Chilean securities regulator’s
website. The result matched the average estimate of three
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The consistent demand growth and tight market conditions
in three of our business lines helped boost results in the
second quarter,” Chief Executive Officer Patricio Contesse said
in a separate e-mailed statement. “We expect these market
circumstances should continue in the second half of the year.”  Specialty plant fertilizer sales rose 21 percent in the
first half, while iodine sales climbed 41 percent, lithium 11
percent and potash sales rose 13 percent over the same period,
Soquimich, also known as SQM, said.  Potash prices in  China ,  Brazil ,  Southeast Asia  and  Europe 
have advanced 29 percent so far this year according to Bloomberg
data, spurring sales for Soquimich, which produces 2 percent of
the world’s total of the fertilizer ingredient.  Lithium Producer  The company controlled by Chairman Julio Ponce is also the
world’s biggest producer of lithium, used in camera batteries
and in the pharmaceutical industry. Soquimich gets all of its
potash, lithium and iodine from brine it taps in the Atacama
Desert in northern  Chile .  Soquimich’s financial position and expansion plans will
allow it to “capitalize on the growth opportunities in all of
our businesses,” Contesse said in the statement.  Soquimich shares rose 2.4 percent to 29,173 pesos in
Santiago trading today, extending a 2011 gain to 9.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net 
Matt Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  