-- 
South Africa Needs Faster and More Inclusive Growth, Finance Minister Says

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-08-31T05:26:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/south-africa-needs-faster-more-inclusive-growth-minister-gordhan-says.html
South Africa ’s economy is still
feeling the effects of its first recession in 17 years and needs
to be placed on a new trajectory to slash the 25.7 percent
unemployment rate, Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said.  Africa ’s largest economy shed about 1 million jobs because
of the recession, which began in the final quarter of 2008 and
lasted until the second quarter of 2009. The economy expanded an
annualized rate of 1.3 percent in the second quarter of this
year, its slowest pace in almost two years, after growing at a
revised 4.5 percent rate in the prior three months, the
government’s statistics agency said in a report released
yesterday.  The latest growth data were “disappointing to say the
least,” Gordhan said in a speech at the University of  Cape Town 
yesterday. “We need to create a dispensation where our economy
has the capacity to absorb both skilled labor and unskilled
labor, and we are not at that point at this stage. Hopefully we
can still get to beyond 3 percent” growth this year.  Growth is lagging behind the government’s targeted annual
expansion of 7 percent that it says is needed to meet a pledge
to create 5 million jobs in the next decade and cut the jobless
rate to 14 percent. It may take three years to regain the jobs
lost in the recession, he said.  “It is now well-established that looking at a GDP number
is not enough,” Gordhan said. “Unless we talk about social
justice accompanying the GDP number, we are not going to get the
right balance in this society.”  Won’t Copy  Australia   The minister called for “a new formula” to be developed
to bring more of the black majority into the mainstream economy,
saying the current dispensation is not working and only serves
to benefit a small elite.  While South Africa is constantly reviewing its tax laws, it
currently has no intention of emulating Australia’s plans to
increase taxes on mining companies, Gordhan said.  South Africa, where companies including  Anglo American Plc (AGL) ,
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  have operations, is
the world’s largest platinum and chrome producer and Africa’s
biggest gold producer.  The  mining industry  is important, Gordhan said. “Clearly
it’s not playing as full a role as it should be playing, both in
terms of exports of minerals and also in terms of mineral”
processing, and more needs to be done to encourage investment in
the industry.  The rand strengthened 0.4 percent to 7.0568 per dollar at
7:21 a.m. in Johannesburg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town Nef at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  