-- 
South Korea’s Output Grows Less-Than-Forecast 3.8% as Global Demand Cools

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S i m
-- 
2011-08-31T02:24:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/south-korea-s-output-grows-less-than-forecast-3-8-as-global-demand-cools.html
South Korea ’s industrial production
expanded at the slowest pace in 10 months as weakness in global
growth threatens the outlook for exports.  Output rose 3.8 percent from a year earlier after gaining a
revised 6.5 percent in June, Statistics Korea said today. The
median estimate of 11 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was
for a 6.2 percent gain. Production slid 0.4 percent from June,
when it increased 0.9 percent.  Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan indicated this week that a
cut in the government’s growth forecast may be looming as
“downside risks” grow. The  Bank of Korea  left  interest rates 
unchanged for a second month on Aug. 11 to gauge risks to the
global recovery after equity markets plunged.  “This is not a good sign that the economy may be cooling
down much faster than expected,” said Lee Sang Jae, an
economist at Hyundai Securities Co. in  Seoul . “Now, it all
depends on how well exports can hold up in August and coming
months to support the economy.”  The won fell 0.1 percent to 1,072.88 per dollar as of 10:57
a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency has strengthened about 5 percent against the dollar so
far this year, the third best performer among major Asian
currencies. The Kospi stock index is almost unchanged today.  Industrial activity is expected to pick up from August as
the weather improves and government spending increases, Bahk
said today. He said Aug. 29 that the government is maintaining a
4.5 percent growth estimate "for now."  Shipments Slow  Investment in factories fell 2.7 percent in July from a
year earlier after rising a revised 4.7 percent in June, while
shipments increased 3 percent, slowing from a revised 5.8
percent in June, according to the report.  Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s largest maker of
televisions and flat-screen panels, reported an 18 percent drop
in second-quarter profit. Slumping sales for TVs and displays
will continue in the third quarter as a slow economic recovery
damps consumer appetite for electronics products, it said.  South Korea’s leading index of economic indicators rose 2.0
percent in July from a year earlier, compared with a 1.7 percent
gain in June, today’s report showed. Sales of  consumer goods 
gained 2.3 percent from June and advanced 5.3 percent from a
year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Sim in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  