-- 
South Africa May Take Years to Recoup Jobs Lost in Slowdown, Gordhan Says

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-08-30T18:51:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/south-africa-may-take-years-to-recoup-jobst-lost-in-slowdown-gordhan-says.html
South Africa  may take as long as
three years to regain about 1 million jobs lost following the
country’s first recession in almost two decades, Finance
Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said.  The global financial crisis pushed  Africa ’s largest economy
into recession in last quarter of 2008, and it only returned to
growth in the third quarter of 2009. The economy expanded an
annualized 1.3 percent in the second quarter of this year, its
slowest pace in almost two years, the government statistics
agency said in a report released today.  “South Africa will probably take another two to three
years to get back to where we were before the recession,”
Gordhan said in a speech at the University of  Cape Town  today.
The latest growth data was “disappointing to say the least.
Hopefully we can still get to beyond 3 percent” growth this
year.  Growth is lagging the government’s targeted annual
expansion of 7 percent that it says is needed to meet a pledge
to create 5 million jobs in the next decade. That is forecast to
reduce the jobless rate to 14 percent from 25.7 percent
currently.  Measures taken by the government to bring more of the black
majority into the mainstream economy are not working and only
served to benefit a small elite, Gordhan said.  While South Africa is constantly reviewing its tax laws, it
currently has no intention of emulating  Australia ’s plans to
increase taxes on mining companies, he said.  “The mining sector is important in the South African
context,” he said. “Clearly it’s not playing as full a role as
it should be playing, both in terms of exports of minerals and
also in terms of minerals” processing, and more needs to be
done to encourage investment in the industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 