-- 
South African Economic Growth Slows to 1.3%, Missing Economists’ Forecasts

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a   a n d   G o r d o n   B e l l
-- 
2011-08-30T12:00:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/south-african-economic-growth-slows-to-1-3-missing-economist-forecast.html
South  Africa ’s economy, Africa’s
biggest, expanded an annualized 1.3 percent in the second
quarter, its slowest pace in almost two years, as manufacturing
and mining output plunged.  Gross domestic product growth eased from a revised 4.5
percent in the first quarter, Statistics South Africa said in a
report released today in the capital,  Pretoria . The median
estimate of 18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for an
expansion of 1.6 percent.  European governments have pared spending this year to ease
the debt crisis, limiting exports to a region that buys about a
third of South African manufactured goods. That’s weakening the
economy’s recovery, adding to expectations the central bank may
keep its benchmark interest rate at a 30-year low of 5.5 percent
this year or possibly reduce it.  “We’re running at well below our potential growth rate,”
Arthur Kamp, an economist at Sanlam Investment Management, said
in an interview from  Cape Town  today. “ Interest rates  will
likely remain on hold well into next year. If there’s a material
weakening in the global economy, the discussion may shift to
whether we need a rate cut.”  The rand weakened to 7.0771 against the dollar as of 12:21
p.m. in Johannesburg from 7.0682 before the data was released.
The yield on the R157 government bond, due 2015, fell 5 basis
points, or 0.05 percentage points, to 6.501 percent.  Growth Projections  Growth is lagging the government’s targeted annual
expansion of 7 percent that it says is needed to meet a pledge
to create 5 million jobs in the next decade. That is forecast to
reduce the  unemployment rate  to 14 percent from 25.7 percent
currently.  The deputy central bank governor, Lesetja Kganyago, said on
Aug. 25 that the bank may need to scale back its 3.7 percent
growth projection for this year if the global slowdown
continues. Citigroup Inc. said on Aug. 25 the economy will
probably expand 3.4 percent this year, lower than its previous
forecast of 3.8 percent.  Manufacturing, which makes up 15 percent of the economy,
contracted an annualized 7 percent in the second quarter, while
mining dropped 4.2 percent, the statistics office said.
Agricultural production plunged 7.8 percent.  That was partly offset by a 5.7 percent expansion in
government output, 4.1 percent growth in the retail trade
industry and a 2.9 percent increase in financial services, the
agency said.  ‘Sufficient Health’  “The domestic economy has not yet been restored to
sufficient health for  South Africa  to be able to shrug off these
global risks,”  Razia Khan , head of Africa economic research at
Standard Chartered Plc in  London , said in a note to clients.
“It makes for uncomfortable reading.”  Data released by the central bank today indicates a slow
recovery in credit demand, adding to expectations the bank will
keep its key interest rate unchanged. Borrowing by consumers and
companies rose 5.7 percent in July from a year earlier, after
expanding 5.3 percent in the previous month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net ;
 Gordon Bell  in Johannesburg at 
 gbell16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 