-- 
Spanish Budget Amendment Faces Its First Test in Parliament Amid Rebellion

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-08-30T13:23:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/spanish-budget-amendment-faces-its-first-test-in-parliament-amid-rebellion.html
Spain ’s proposal to write budget
rules into the constitution passed its first legislative test
today even as members of the ruling Socialist Party criticized
the measure and unions planned street protests.  Lawmakers agreed to a debate on the proposal to include the
“principle of budget stability” in the constitution and to
hold a final vote Sept. 2, the speaker of parliament, Jose Bono,
said. Lawmakers have two days to propose changes to the
amendment, which is backed by Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero and the opposition  People’s Party .  The plan has angered Zapatero’s traditional allies in the
unions and members of his own party three months before a
general election that polls indicate his Socialists will lose.
Zapatero made the proposal, which follows similar plans in
Germany and  France , as part of his efforts to stem the surge in
bond yields that prompted the  European Central Bank  to start
buying Spanish debt this month.  “Spain is paying inappropriate  interest rates  and there is
no better way of dispelling uncertainty than making the
principle of budget stability a constitutional order,” Jose
Antonio Alonso, the Socialists’ spokesman in parliament, told
lawmakers in Madrid. The rise in bond yields “may worsen” in
the coming months, he said.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year
bonds compared with German equivalents rose to 289 basis points
today from 279 basis points yesterday. It reached a euro-era
intraday record of 418 basis points on Aug. 5.  Moody’s Praise  The amendment, set to be accompanied by a separate law that
limits the structural deficit to 0.4 percent of gross domestic
product, was praised by Moody’s Investors Service yesterday. The
rating company, which placed Spain’s Aa2 grade on review for a
possible downgrade on July 29, said it will take the amendment
into account in that review.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , fighting to rally domestic
support for her strategy to tackle the sovereign debt crisis,
also welcomed the move. The “debt brake” is a “signal that
more and more countries are willing to go down the path of
common sense,” she told a press conference today in Ljubljana,
Slovenia.  ‘Political Suicide’  Socialist opponents of the budget rule include Antonio Gutierrez, a former union leader who said in comments broadcast
by TVE today that he will vote against the measure. The
amendment is “political suicide” for the party, he said on
Aug. 25.  Jose Antonio Perez Tapias, a member of parliament, called
on his  blog  for the measure to be put to a referendum. He said
it would leave the party “naked like victims of a shipwreck,
barely survivors of our own political project.”  Zapatero isn’t running for re-election on Nov. 20 and will
be replaced as candidate for premier by Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba,
who is trying to woo supporters angered by the Socialists’ wage
cuts, austerity measures and bank bailouts. Rubalcaba, who
supports the amendment, has pledged a tax on the wealthy and on
banks as he tries to narrow the PP’s lead in opinion polls.  The PP would win 47.6 percent of the vote if the election
were held now, compared with 35 percent for the Socialists,
according to a poll by  ABC  newspaper on Aug. 7.  Smaller parties including groups that have supported the
government on previous economic legislation opposed changing the
constitution without a referendum or consultations with the four
other groups in parliament.  ‘New Sovereignty’  “It is a coup against the constitution and a hijacking of
the popular will,” Gaspar Llamazares, a lawmaker for the United
Left party, said in parliament today as he urged deputies to
push for a referendum and “rebel” against “a new sovereignty
imposed by markets.”  Spain’s two largest unions are also calling for a popular
vote on the amendment, which is only the second since the
charter was approved in 1978. They plan protests tomorrow and on
Sept. 1 to push for a referendum. Spain’s so-called “indignant
ones” movement also plans demonstrations later today in  Madrid ,
according to its website.  The Socialists and PP have rejected calls for a referendum,
saying constitutional law doesn’t require it. Marcelino
Iglesias, one of the Socialists’ deputy leaders, said yesterday
a referendum would create “more uncertainty precisely among
those to whom we are trying to transmit certainty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  