-- 
Spanish Inflation Slowed to Lowest in Nine Months in August

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-08-30T07:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/spanish-inflation-slowed-to-lowest-in-nine-months-in-august.html
Spanish inflation slowed in August
to the lowest rate in nine months as consumers suffering from
the highest  unemployment rate  in  Europe  reined in spending.  Consumer prices, based on European Union calculations, rose
2.7 percent from a year earlier, the slowest rate since
November, the  National Statistics Institute , or INE, said today.
The rate fell from 3 percent in July. Inflation was 2.9 percent
according to the Spanish measure of prices, the Madrid-based
institute said.  Spain’s economy is struggling to recover from a three-year
slump as households spend less to pay down one of the largest
private-debt burdens in the euro region. Retail sales declined
for the 13th month in July, the INE said yesterday, as the 21
percent unemployment rate undermines consumer demand.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
yesterday the bank is reviewing its assessment of inflation
risks after growth in the euro area slowed. The comment
contrasts with his previous policy statement on Aug. 4, when he
said risks to the inflation outlook were “on the upside.”  Spain ’s inflation rate remains above the euro-era average,
even as its economy is recovering more slowly than Europe. Euro-
region inflation was probably 2.5 percent in August, unchanged
from July, according to the average estimate of 35 economists in
a Bloomberg survey.  Spain is more sensitive to changes in the cost of oil than
other euro-area countries and inflation should fall below the
euro-region average early next year, Bank of Spain Governor
Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez said on May 23. The price of
crude oil has fallen 10 percent in the past six months and
traded at $87.34 today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  