-- 
Stocks Poised for Worst Month on Growth Woes: Israel Overnight

-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 
2011-08-31T14:45:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/stocks-poised-for-worst-month-on-record-amid-growth-woes-israel-overnight.html
Israeli shares traded in New York
are heading for their worst month on record on concern global
economic growth is faltering and the Palestinian Authority’s
quest for statehood may destabilize the country.  The Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index of the largest Israeli
companies that trade in the U.S. retreated 0.2 percent to 85.48
yesterday, extending its August drop to 13 percent, the worst
monthly performance in data going back to September 2005.
 SodaStream International Ltd. (SODA) , the maker of machines that
carbonate water, led the gauge’s decline, falling 50 percent
after its profit forecast trailed estimates.  Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , the world’s largest maker of generic drugs,
dropped 13 percent on concern new products won’t boost sales.  Mounting speculation that global economic growth is
faltering, combined with  Standard & Poor’s  cut to the U.S.
credit rating and European countries’ struggle to repay debt has
pushed shares lower worldwide. Israeli companies also fell on
concern that a pending  United Nations  resolution on Palestinian
statehood may create political turmoil when it is considered
next month, said Uriel Goren, head of international clients at
DS Brokerage & Investments Ltd.  “We’re going through one of the most difficult times right
now,” Goren said from  Tel Aviv . “The main reason is concern
about global growth, but the instability in the  Middle East  and
anticipation ahead of the September decision is also adding
concern.”  Israel’s TA-25 Index of stocks rose 1 percent to 1,132.51
at the 4:30 p.m. close in Tel Aviv. The benchmark lost 7.5
percent this month, or 11 percent in dollar terms, the biggest
drop since November 2008.  Large Exporter  Almost $5 trillion has been wiped off the value of equities
worldwide this month amid concern the global recovery is
weakening. Growth in Israel slowed to an annualized 3.3 percent
in the second quarter from a revised 4.7 percent in the previous
three months, the  Central Bureau of Statistics  said Aug. 16.  “There are concerns aligned with  Europe  and the U.S.
growth, and on top of that there are the geopolitical events and
concern about the Palestinians getting a state,” said Jamia Jasper, the president of AmerIsrael Capital Management LLC in
 New York . “Israel being a large exporter tends to be very
sensitive to this.”  Exports make up about 40 percent of Israel’s economy, with
Europe and the U.S. its largest markets.  The shekel rose 0.4 percent to 3.5580 per dollar. The
currency has dropped 3.9 percent this month, the third-worst
performer among 10 emerging markets in Europe, Middle East and
 Africa  tracked by Bloomberg.  Rate Outlook  While Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  held the
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged for a third month at 3.25
percent this week, interest-rate swaps are showing investors
betting on a rate cut. The cost of fixing Israeli interest rates
for two years fell to 3.60 percent yesterday, the lowest level
since at least May 2005. It rose three basis points to 3.63
percent today.  Inflation, which has exceeded the government’s 1 percent to
3 percent target since the beginning of the year, has eased and
price pressures have moderated on slower economic activity and
after Israelis rallied against the cost of items ranging from
cottage cheese, a local staple, to housing.  Consumer prices fell for the first time in more than a year
in July, retreating 0.3 percent from June, the statistics bureau
said Aug. 15. The annual inflation rate slowed to 3.4 percent
from 4.2 percent.  Declines in the Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index pushed
valuations to 9.8 times estimated earnings, below the Nasdaq
Composite Index’s 15.4 ratio and the S&P 500’s 12.2 level.  “This might be a good opportunity to go in,” Goren said.  UN Resolution  The United Nations will consider a resolution on
Palestinian statehood in September, a move opposed by Israeli
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. The administration of U.S.
President  Barack Obama  has indicated it will veto any statehood
resolution in the UN Security Council, saying the move would
undercut efforts to restart direct Israeli-Palestinian talks and
jeopardize U.S. aid to the  Palestinian Authority .  Obama has asked Israel to agree to new talks on a
Palestinian state “based on the 1967 lines,” endorsing a key
Palestinian demand, while discouraging Palestinian Authority
President  Mahmoud Abbas  from pursuing “symbolic actions” at
the UN in September.  Eight Israelis were killed in an attack by Palestinian
militants near the resort city of Eilat on Aug. 18. At least 24
Palestinians were killed in subsequent Israeli air strikes on
the  Gaza Strip  and one person in Israel died during a rocket
attack.  Negative Turnaround  “Developments since the previous interest rate decision
indicating a negative turnaround in economic activity in the
U.S. and the  euro zone , together with the geopolitical risks,
are likely to affect economic activity in  Israel ,” the central
bank said in its statement Aug. 29.  SodaStream, the Airport City, Israel-based company, slumped
34 percent on Aug. 11 after the company said 2011 net income
will probably climb 60 percent from last year, reiterating its
previous outlook. Analysts had forecast profit to almost triple,
according to the median estimate of six analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Shares fell 1.1 percent yesterday to $36.56.  Teva declined this month on concern among shareholders that
the drugmaker will struggle to find a replacement for its best-
selling drug, Copaxone. Shares of the Petach Tikva, Israel-based
company lost 0.1 percent yesterday to $40.53 in New York. The
Tel Aviv shares gained 1.5 percent to 146 shekels, or the
equivalent of $41.03, today.  EZchip Gains  EZchip Semiconductor Ltd. (EZCH) , the Israeli maker of network
processors that counts Cisco Systems Inc. as a customer, is the
only company on the Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index headed for a
gain this month, poised to climb 0.4 percent. Shares in New York
increased 1.5 percent to $31.02 yesterday. The Israeli stock
advanced 3.3 percent to 112 shekels, or the equivalent of
$31.48, today.  Orbotech Ltd. (ORBK) , the Israeli maker of equipment to test
screens of smartphones and tablets, is the third-best performer
this month, after dropping 0.2 percent. Second-quarter net
income rose to $18.9 million from $12.4 million in the same
period last year, the Yavne, Israel-based company said Aug. 1.  “They’re seeing good demand in the printed circuit boards
market, which is driven by tablets and smart phones,” said Jim Ricchiuti, an analyst at Needham & Co in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  