-- 
Strauss-Kahn Visits IMF to Bid Farewell to Staff, Lauds Successor Lagarde

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-08-30T02:11:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/strauss-kahn-bids-farewell-to-imf-staff.html
Dominique Strauss-Kahn , the former
head of the  International Monetary Fund , met with his successor
and bid an emotional farewell to IMF staff during his first
visit to the agency since his resignation in May.  Strauss-Kahn, 62, conferred with Managing Director
 Christine Lagarde  in  Washington  yesterday a week after sexual-
assault charges against him were dismissed and later met with
employees, according to IMF spokesman  William Murray . He was
treated to sustained applause, said Paulo Nogueira Batista,
 Brazil ’s representative to the IMF’s board of directors.  “The mood was emotional and very welcoming, very warm,”
Nogueira Batista told reporters after the meeting. “He was a
great managing director and he had to be honored.” He declined
to comment on the content of Strauss-Kahn’s speech.  Strauss-Kahn, once considered a leading contender to win
the French presidency next year, helped restore the IMF’s
relevance and reshape its mission while obtaining a tripling of
its resources during his three and a half years in the top job.
His May 14 arrest and his resignation a few days later sent the
IMF reeling just as the European debt crisis was worsening.  The meeting with Strauss-Kahn, who was accompanied by his
wife,  Anne Sinclair , was attended by a cross section of
employees, from senior management to secretaries. Many,
including women, waited to shake his hand and have photos taken
with him, according to two people who attended and spoke on
condition they not be named because they weren’t authorized to
discuss the gathering.  During a speech that lasted about 10 minutes, Strauss-Kahn
apologized for the impact of his legal woes on the institution
and its staff and said his tenure as managing director was among
the most rewarding periods of his professional career, the
people said.  Lagarde’s Call  He praised Lagarde’s call, delivered in an Aug. 27
speech, for an “urgent” and potentially mandatory
recapitalization of European banks, the people said. Her
suggestion yesterday was rebuffed by Germany and  Spain . He also
expressed concern about the state of the world economy.  A New York State Supreme Court Justice last week granted
Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr.’s request to dismiss
the indictment against Strauss-Kahn after Vance’s office
concluded that his accuser had lied about events surrounding the
alleged May 14 attack, as well as about key details of her life.  Strauss-Kahn still faces a lawsuit by his accuser and
remains the subject of a French rape investigation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  