-- 
Swap Rate Bets Signal BOJ’s Shirakawa Will Never Raise Rates: Japan Credit

-- B y   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 
2011-08-31T03:21:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/swap-rate-bets-signal-boj-s-shirakawa-will-never-raise-rates-japan-credit.html
Masaaki Shirakawa may become the
first  Bank of Japan  governor since the 1990s to finish his term
without raising  interest rates  as entrenched deflation and the
yen’s surge weaken the world’s third-biggest economy.  The 18-month overnight-index swap rate, an indication of
what derivative traders expect the Bank of Japan’s key interest
rate will average during the period, sank to 0.05 percent on Aug.
23, the lowest since at least Dec. 2005, and compared with the
BOJ’s target rate of zero to 0.1 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Mitsubishi UFJ
Morgan Stanley Securities Co. have pushed back estimates for an
increase in the overnight lending rate to 2014 at the earliest.  Shirakawa may be forced to inject more cash into the
economy as the yen’s 10 percent gain to a postwar high against
the dollar in the past year endanger exports, and falling prices
and wages depress  consumer spending . His dilemma underscores
Japan’s failure to recover from the bursting of its 1980s asset
bubble after maintaining the world’s lowest borrowing costs for
most of the last two decades, and the task facing incoming Prime
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda .  “An interest-rate increase is out of question now as long
as we can see,” said  Ayako Sera , a market strategist at
Sumitomo Trust & Banking Co., which manages the equivalent of
$317 billion in  Tokyo . The fact that Shirakawa may leave without
raising rates symbolizes “the abnormal situation of monetary
easing has become a normal situation for us,” she said.  Next Step  Shirakawa, 61, would be the first governor since Yasuo Matsushita, who oversaw policy from 1994 to 1998, to step down
without a rate increase. Shirakawa is due to leave office in
April 2013. The central bank’s next step may be expanding a 15
trillion yen asset-purchase program.  Government reports this week underscored the risks for an
economy that has contracted for the past three quarters.
Industrial production rose less than forecast, by 0.6 percent,
in July from the previous month, a release today showed. The
 unemployment rate  increased for the second straight month in
July and retail sales dropped 0.3 percent, data showed yesterday.  “There’s still a lot of room to develop and expand the
asset-purchase scheme,” said JPMorgan’s chief economist in
Tokyo Masaaki Kanno, who is also a former Bank of Japan official.
He said purchases of exchange-traded funds, real estate
investment trusts, commercial paper and corporate bonds may grow.
The central bank could also lower the 0.1 percent rate the
central bank pays lenders with funds in its accounts, Kanno said.  After Fed  The U.S. Federal Reserve’s pledge on Aug. 9 to keep rates
at a record low until mid-2013 means it’s “incredibly
improbable’” the Japan would move before then, said  Kiichi Murashima , chief economist at Citigroup Global Markets Japan Inc.
in Tokyo. “If the BOJ were to raise rates before the Fed, that
would set off a steep surge in the yen.”  Three days after the Fed’s pledge, revised inflation data
showed how changes to calculate methods will push back Japan’s
exit from deflation even further. Prices excluding fresh food
fell 0.2 percent in June, lower than the earlier reading of 0.4
percent inflation, after the basket for compiling consumer-price
data was altered as part of a five-year review.  The BOJ will probably lower its inflation forecast for the
two years running through March 2013 to close to zero when it
reviews its forecasts in October, from an earlier prediction of
0.7 percent, according to Hiroaki Muto, a senior economist at
Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Co. in Tokyo.  Shirakawa’s Start  Months after taking the helm in April 2008, Shirakawa was
faced with challenge of steering the economy through the global
financial crisis, marked by the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings. Six months into his term, he lowered the benchmark
rate to 0.3 percent from 0.5 percent.  Schooled in economics at the  University of Tokyo  and then
the  University of Chicago  under Nobel-laureate  Milton Friedman ,
the governor has consistently warned against keeping rates too
low for too long, and planting the seeds for asset bubbles. He
has said such policies were in part responsible for bringing on
 Japan ’s 1980s asset bubble.  Analysts see further easing as more likely after the yen
touched a postwar high of 75.95 on Aug. 19 in  New York . The yen
traded at 76.68 per dollar as of 9:36 a.m. in Tokyo.  Citigroup’s Murashima says the central bank may weigh
expanding the maturities of assets it purchases to lower longer-
term borrowing costs.  Revising Forecasts  JPMorgan now expects the BOJ to raise rates in 2014 at the
earliest, compared with its previous prediction that a move
would come as soon as the second half of 2013, according to
chief economist Kanno. Sumitomo Mitsui’s  Mari Iwashita , chief
market economist, has pushed her forecast back to the year
ending March 2015 from the second quarter of 2013.  Mitsubishi UFJ’s senior bond strategist  Naomi Hasegawa  sees
the earliest chance for policy tightening in fiscal 2014,
compared with a previous projection of a move as soon as the
year ending March 2014. BOJ rate increases typically lag behind
the  Federal Reserve  by at least a year, she said.  With the BOJ’s benchmark rate already near zero since 2008,
policy makers have instead been adding stimulus to the economy
through a fixed-rate lending program and an asset-buying
facility.  The next scheduled meeting for Shirakawa and his board is
Sept. 6-7. In the U.S., Federal Reserve officials will meet for
two days instead of one next month to discuss the outlook for
that nation’s economy and any possible actions.  Ten-year Japanese  government bonds  yielded 1.02 percent as
of 9:40 a.m. in Tokyo, after reaching 0.97 percent on Aug. 19,
the lowest level since Nov. 9. Japanese yields are the second-
lowest after  Switzerland  among 32 bond markets tracked by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  