-- 
Swedish Krona Weakens on Rate Outlook, Stock Losses; Norway’s Krone Falls

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   K e i t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-08-30T15:07:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/swedish-norwegian-currencies-depreciate-against-all-major-counterparts.html
Sweden ’s krona weakened against all
its major counterparts on speculation slowing economic growth
will deter the central bank from raising  interest rates .  The currency also depreciated for a third day against the
euro as a slide in Swedish stocks sapped demand for the nation’s
currency. The government last week slashed its 2011 growth
forecast to 4.1 percent from 4.6 percent, and cut the prediction
for next year to 1.3 percent from 3.8 percent. The Riksbank will
announce its next interest-rate  decision  on Sept. 7.  “The strong economic outlook in Sweden is apparently
faltering,” said Arne Lohmann Rasmussen, chief foreign-exchange
analyst at Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen. “That is weighing on
the krona. There are fears that the Riksbank will take the same
view as the government and revise their outlook.”  The krona depreciated 0.5 percent to 9.1829 per euro as of
4:05 p.m. in  London , the first three-day losing streak since
June 15. It fell 1.1 percent to 6.3629 per dollar.  Pension funds may be selling Sweden’s currency after the
decline in equities, Rasmussen said. This provides investors
with an “excellent buying opportunity,” he said.  Sweden’s benchmark stock index, the OMX Stockholm 30 Index,
fell 0.4 percent, having declined 13 percent this month.  The Norwegian krone weakened 0.3 percent to 5.3657 per
dollar, and was little changed at 7.7492 per euro.  Norway ’s central bank Governor Oeystein Olsen said he was
monitoring the krone after investors bought the currency as a
haven from the worldwide stock-market rout, triggering gains
that threaten exports.  “We have noticed that there has been no major weakening of
the krone in the last period,” Olsen said today in an interview
in Oslo. “It has remained relatively strong in the last phase
of turbulence in international markets. We follow the
developments and its implications on price prospects and on the
real economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Keith Campbell  at 
 k.campbell@bloomberg.net  