-- 
Swiss Franc Snaps Two-Day Slump Versus Euro as Italian Debt Falls on Sale

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-08-30T15:51:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/swiss-franc-falls-for-third-day-versus-dollar-on-bets-snb-will-cap-gains.html
The Swiss franc rose for the first
time in three days versus the euro as Italian  government
securities  fell in the wake of a bond auction, boosting demand
for the relative safety of Switzerland’s currency.  The franc was little changed against the dollar, having
weakened yesterday to its lowest level since July 23, amid
speculation Switzerland’s central bank will sustain its efforts
to prevent the currency from strengthening. The  Swiss National
Bank  has countered the currency’s gains by boosting liquidity in
money markets and increasing cash available to banks.  “They’ve been very active in the swaps market, they’ve
been providing a lot of liquidity,” said  Stephen Gallo , head of
market analysis at Schneider Foreign Exchange in  London . “You
have dramatic forces bearing down on euro-Swiss franc” that
will keep the central bank on guard, he said.  Switzerland ’s currency appreciated 0.4 percent to 1.1793
per euro at 4:38 p.m. in London after reaching 1.19728
yesterday, the weakest level since July 11. The franc traded at
81.65 centimes per dollar, after sliding 2.9 percent over the
past two trading days.  The yield on Italian 10-year bonds rose four basis points
to 5.12 percent. Today’s auction was Italy’s first since the
 European Central Bank  began buying the nation’s debt to stem the
spreading sovereign-debt crisis.  Switzerland auctioned 634.25 million francs of 91-day bills
today for an average yield of minus 0.75 percent. Yields on some
short-term Swiss securities have turned negative over the past
month as investors sacrifice capital for the perceived safety of
franc-denominated assets.  Baloise Holding AG, the nation’s third-biggest insurer,
today cited the franc’s strength versus the euro as contributing
to its 3.4 percent decline in first-half profit.  The dollar may extend its advance against the Swiss franc
and rally to as much as 88.50 centimes should it break above a
key resistance level at 82.52 centimes,  Karen Jones , Commerzbank
AG’s London-based head of fixed-income, commodity and currency
technical analysis said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  