-- 
U.K. Stocks Climb to Two-Week High as Banks, Mining Shares Rally

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-08-30T16:02:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/u-k-stocks-rally-rbs-barclays-xstrata-rio-tinto-bhp-billiton-climb.html
U.K. stocks rallied, sending the
benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  to a near two-week high, as banks and
commodity companies climbed in London trading.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  surged
more than 6 percent as Deutsche Bank AG recommended the lenders.
 Xstrata Plc (XTA)  and  Rio Tinto  Group rose with commodity prices, both
advancing more than 4 percent.  Prudential Plc (PRU)  led insurers
higher as damage from Hurricane Irene in the U.S. was less
severe than estimated.  The FTSE 100 jumped 2.7 percent to 5,268.66 at the 4:30
p.m. close in London, after a public holiday yesterday. All but
six companies climbed. The broader FTSE All-Share Index rose 2.6
percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index added 1 percent.  The U.K. has “played catch up with other European bourses
after its extended bank holiday weekend,” said  Angus Campbell ,
head of sales at Capital Spreads in  London . “The banks, which
have suffered terrible losses of late, were in demand.”  U.K. stocks paced yesterday’s rally in European shares
after a U.S. report showed that consumer spending climbed in the
world’s largest economy last month more than economists had
forecast.  The FTSE 100 has still slumped 9.4 percent so far in August
and is heading for its biggest monthly selloff since October
2008 as concern about the global economic recovery wiped more
than $400 billion off the value of U.K. shares.  RBS, Barclays Jump  RBS rallied 8 percent to 23.6 pence as Deutsche Bank raised
its recommendation for Britain’s biggest government-owned lender
to “buy” from “hold,” saying a 34 percent selloff so far
this month is “overdone.”  Analysts expect “strong management will continue to
deliver value” in the bank’s core area, while managing the risk
in its non-core assets.  Barclays jumped 6.7 percent to 165.4 pence as Deutsche Bank
named Britain’s second-largest bank by assets its “top pick”
and reiterated its “buy” recommendation. Analysts reduced
their price estimate for the shares to 320 pence from 379 pence.
That is still almost double the current share price.  Xstrata climbed 4.7 percent to 1,025.5 pence, Rio Tinto
increased 4.3 percent to 3,673.5 pence and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,
the world’s biggest mining company, advanced 4.3 percent to
2,042.5 pence.  Metal Prices Increase  Copper advanced for a fifth day on the London Metal
Exchange amid speculation that workers at Freeport-McMoRan
Copper & Gold Inc.’s Grasberg mine may strike after talks on
wages ended with no agreement. The market was closed yesterday
for a public holiday.  Indonesia’s Grasberg mine has the world’s largest
recoverable reserves of copper and the biggest  gold reserves ,
according to Freeport’s website.  Prudential, the U.K.’s biggest insurer by market value,
climbed 4.4 percent to 598 pence, while  Aviva Plc (AV/)  advanced 5.8
percent to 329.7 pence and  Old Mutual Plc (OML)  gained 4.7 percent to
118.3 pence.  European insurers rallied yesterday after Hurricane Irene’s
estimated cost to insurers fell to about $2.6 billion in the
U.S. as the storm lost strength en route to New York, according
to Kinetic Analysis Corp., a firm that predicts the effects of
disasters. That compares with a projection last week of almost
$14 billion.  Bovis, Persimmon  Bovis Homes Group Plc (BVS)  rallied 5.3 percent to 369.5 pence,
leading construction companies higher, after the smallest
publicly traded U.K. homebuilder by volume said first-half
profit more than doubled to 5.9 million pounds ($9.6 million) as
operating margin rose.  Analysts at RBS, Numis Securities Ltd. and Panmure Gordon
all raised their recommendation for the shares to “buy.”  Taylor Wimpey Plc, the second biggest U.K. homebuilder by
volume, increased 4.3 percent to 31.76 pence and  Barratt
Developments Plc (BDEV)  jumped 8.3 percent to 78.9 pence.  Wolseley Plc (WOS)  also advanced, jumping 4.6 percent to 1,526
pence as Jefferies Group Inc. upgraded the world’s largest
supplier of heating and plumbing products to “buy” from
“hold.”  Travis Perkins Plc (TPK)  gained 4.3 percent to 792.5 pence.  “Following the recent collapse in shares prices, the
majority of the companies in this sector are, in our view,
substantially undervalued,” Jefferies wrote in a report to
clients dated today. “Our mid-cycle based price targets are on
average 56 percent above the current share prices in the U.K.”  Hammerson Plc (HMSO)  rose 4.6 percent to 406.3 pence as JPMorgan
Chase & Co. named the company one of its “top picks” in the
European real-estate industry. Analysts also raised their
recommendation for  Segro Plc (SGRO)  and  Derwent London Plc (DLN)  to
“overweight.” The shares climbed 2.8 percent to 254.4 pence
and 2 percent to 1,550 pence, respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  