-- 
Mortgage Approvals Increased in July on Low Costs, Bank of England Reports

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-08-30T09:58:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/u-k-mortgage-approvals-rose-in-july-boe-says.html
U.K. mortgage approvals rose in July
as borrowing costs remained at a record low, helping to provide
support to the housing market.  Lenders granted 49,239 loans to buy homes, compared with
48,500 the previous month, the Bank of  England  said today in
 London . Economists forecast 49,000, based on the median of 19
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The reading is less than
half the monthly average of 103,000 in the decade to 2007,
before the financial crisis struck.  U.K. house prices fell for a fourth month in August and
demand for homes may weaken further this year, Hometrack Ltd.
said yesterday. While benchmark borrowing rates at 0.5 percent
may help limit a drop in values, the Bank of England cut its
economic growth forecast this month amid turmoil in the U.S. and
 Europe  and as Britain’s government implements the biggest fiscal
squeeze since World War II.  “The market remains essentially stagnant,” Andrew Goodwin, an economist at Ernst & Young’s ITEM Club, said in an
e-mailed note. “We’re not going to see any significant change
until there is a decisive improvement in lending conditions and
that is unlikely to happen any time soon.”  Net mortgage lending rose by 700 million pounds ($1.14
billion) in July from June, while  consumer credit  increased by
200 million pounds, the least since January, the central bank
said.  Home Ownership  In a separate report, the National Housing Federation said
home ownership in England will decline over the next decade as
banks’ demands for larger deposits leave an “entire generation
locked out of the housing market.” Ownership will fall to 63.8
percent by 2021, the lowest since the mid-1980s, from 67 percent
currently, it said.  Hometrack said the average cost of a home fell 0.1 percent
this month from July and was down 3.7 percent from a year
earlier. A Nationwide Building Society index of consumer
sentiment dropped 2 points to 49 last month, the lowest in three
months.  U.K. economic growth slowed to 0.2 percent in the second
quarter from 0.5 percent in the first three months of the year.
The central bank’s forecasts show gross domestic product rising
about 1.5 percent this year and 2.2 percent next year, less than
its projections in May for 1.9 percent and 2.5 percent.  Policy Switch  Policy makers held the key  interest rate  unchanged and
their bond-purchase plan at 200 billion pounds this month. The
deteriorating outlook for growth prompted  Martin Weale  and Chief
Economist Spencer Dale to abandon a push for a quarter-point
rate increase to contain inflation pressures. Consumer prices
rose an annual 4.4 percent last month, more than double the
central bank’s target.  A measure of M4 money-supply growth that the bank uses to
assess the effectiveness of its asset purchases was 3.5 percent
in the three months through July on an annualized basis, today’s
report said. That compares with a 0.8 percent increase in the
three months through June. The gauge excludes financial
companies that specialize in intermediating between banks, such
as holding companies and non-bank credit grantors.  Total M4 fell 0.1 percent in July from the previous month
and was down 1.1 percent on the year, the  Bank of England  said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  