-- 
Consumer Confidence in U.S. Plunges to Lowest Since 2009 on Jobs Outlook

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-08-30T20:34:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/u-s-consumer-confidence-drops-to-lowest-since-09-as-index-slumps-to-44-5.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers
plunged to the lowest level in more than two years as Americans’
outlooks for employment and incomes soured.  The Conference Board’s index slumped to 44.5, the weakest
since April 2009, from a revised 59.2 reading in July, figures
from the New York-based research group showed today. It was the
biggest point drop since October 2008. A separate report showed
 home prices  declined for a ninth month.  Treasury yields dropped on concern consumers will pull back
on the spending that makes up about 70 percent of the economy,
increasing the risk of a recession. An unemployment rate above 9
percent, partisan bickering over the  budget deficit  and a
volatile stock market weighed on sentiment.  “This paints a picture of underlying demand weakening,”
said Bricklin Dwyer, an economist at BNP Paribas in New York,
whose forecast of 45 was most accurate in a Bloomberg News
survey. “Consumers are seeing their wealth deteriorate. We’ve
seen a huge decline continuing in the housing market. They’ve
also been hit on the chin by the equity markets.”  Treasuries climbed, pushing down the yield on the benchmark
10-year note down to 2.17 percent from 2.26 percent late
yesterday. After declining as much as 1.2 percent, the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.2 percent to 1,212.92 at the 4 p.m.
close in  New York  after minutes of the Federal Reserve’s last
meeting showed some policy makers wanted to take more action to
spur growth.  Global Confidence Slump  American consumers aren’t the only ones feeling more glum.
European confidence in the economic outlook plunged in August by
the most since December 2008 as a persistent debt crisis roiled
markets and clouded growth prospects. An index of executive and
consumer sentiment in the single-currency region fell to 98.3
from a revised 103 in July, the European Commission in Brussels
said today.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities
fell 4.5 percent in June from a year earlier, after a 4.6
percent drop in the 12 months ended in May that was the biggest
since 2009.  Federal Reserve  Bank of Chicago President  Charles Evans 
urged easier monetary policy to keep the recovery going after
the central bank on Aug. 9 vowed to keep its benchmark  interest
rate  close to zero at least through mid 2013.  “I would favor more accommodation,” Evans, a voting
member of the Fed’s policy-making committee, said today in a
CNBC television interview. “I am somewhat nervous about the
economic recovery and where we stand at this point.”  Survey Results  Economists predicted the Conference Board’s gauge would
fall to 52 in August, according to the median forecast in the
Bloomberg survey. The index averaged 98 during the economic
expansion that ended in December 2007.  The share of consumers who said jobs are currently hard to
get increased to 49.1 percent, the highest since November 2009,
from 44.8 percent in July. Confidence dropped in all nine U.S.
regions.  “If you were advised to lean on one side or the other, I’d
say it’s more likely to be slightly more negative from a
sentiment perspective in consumers in the  United States ,” Glenn Murphy, chief executive officer of  Gap Inc. (GPS) , said in an Aug. 18
conference call with analysts. “Maybe the holiday season could
be slightly positive, but we’re not counting on it right now.”  San Francisco-based Gap, the largest U.S. apparel chain,
reported a 19 percent decline in second-quarter profit as price
increases failed to keep up with higher costs to make clothes.  Other Measures  Today’s confidence report is in line with other figures.
The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of
consumer sentiment dropped this month to the lowest level since
November 2008. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index has been
hovering at levels previously consistent with recessions.  A struggling labor market is weighing on consumer
sentiment. Employers added 75,000 jobs in August, compared with
117,000 in July, as the  unemployment rate  held at 9.1 percent,
according to the median estimates in a Bloomberg survey ahead of
a Sept. 2 report from the Labor Department.  “Economic growth has, for the most part, been at rates
insufficient to achieve sustained reductions in unemployment,”
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Aug. 26 at the  Jackson Hole ,
 Wyoming , central bank symposium.  The Conference Board’s data showed a measure of present
conditions declined to 33.3, the second-lowest this year, from
35.7 in July. The measure of expectations for the next six
months slid to 51.9, the weakest since April 2009, from 74.9.  Job Concerns  The percent of respondents expecting more jobs to become
available in the next six months fell to 11.4, the lowest since
March 2009, from 16.9 the previous month. The proportion
expecting their incomes to rise over the next six months
declined to 14.3 from 15.9. The percent expecting a drop rose to
18.7, the highest since November 2009.  Fewer respondents in the Conference Board’s survey
indicated they were planning to buy a house, while more intended
to purchase cars or major appliances in the next six months.  The cutoff date for the survey responses in this month’s
calculation was Aug. 18,  Lynn Franco , director of the Conference
Board’s Consumer Research Center, said in an interview. The
group looked at the responses received before and after the
downgrade of  U.S. debt  by  Standard & Poor’s  and saw very little
difference, she said.  “The decline we saw was already in place before the
downgrade, and there was really already a significant change in
confidence,” said Franco.  Broad-Based Drop  All of the 20 cities in the S&P/Case-Shiller home-price
index showed a year-over-year decline in June, led by an 11
percent drop in  Minneapolis .  Any recovery in home values is probably years away as
foreclosures dump more properties onto to the market, while a
jobless rate hovering around 9 percent and strict lending rules
hurt sales.  “Prices aren’t going to rebound back rapidly,” said  Paul Dales , a senior U.S. economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in
Toronto.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  