-- 
U.S. Company Credit Risk Falls on Speculation Fed to Add Economic Stimulus

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-08-30T21:37:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/u-s-company-credit-risk-falls-on-speculation-fed-to-add-economic-stimulus.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. corporate
credit risk fell today, contributing toward the biggest two-day
drop in more than eight months on speculation the  Federal
Reserve  will enact more stimulus to safeguard the recovery.  The index dropped by the most in two days since December
2010 after the Fed said in minutes of its meeting released today
that some policy makers, who weren’t identified, “felt that
recent economic developments justified a more substantial move”
beyond the pledge adopted at the Aug. 9 gathering of the  Federal
Open Market Committee  to hold its key  interest rate  at a record
low until mid-2013.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, decreased 2.2 basis points to a
mid-price of 118.1 basis points as of 4:33 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  The index soared to 126.8 basis points on Aug. 22 from 96.3
at the end of July, signaling deterioration in company
creditworthiness, as concern mounted that unemployment holding
above 9 percent would derail the economic recovery.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Credit-default swaps on Rochester, New York-based  Eastman
Kodak Co. (EK)  dropped 3.2 percentage points to 34.2 percent upfront,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. That’s in addition to 5 percent a year,
meaning it would cost $3.42 million initially and $500,000
annually to protect $10 million of Kodak’s debt.  The 131-year old camera company, seeking to generate cash
from its intellectual property, has signed confidentiality
agreements with numerous potential buyers of patents it put up
for sale last month, Chief Executive Officer Antonio Perez said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pierre Paulden at 
 ppaulden@bloomberg.net  