-- 
U.S. ATF Chief Melson Reassigned After Criticism on Illegal-Guns Strategy

-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 
2011-08-30T20:43:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/u-s-firearms-agency-chief-leaves-after-criticism-on-illegal-guns-strategy.html
The acting director of the Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives and the U.S. attorney
in  Arizona  are leaving their jobs after lawmakers criticized a
program that allowed illegal gun purchases in the U.S. in an
effort to link the weapons to Mexican drug cartels.  The firearms chief, Kenneth Melson, will become a senior
adviser on forensic science in the Justice Department’s Office
of Legal Policy, and the U.S. attorney, Dennis Burke, is
resigning, said Attorney General Eric Holder in statements
released today. The ATF ran the gun operation and the U.S.
attorney’s office was involved.  The U.S. attorney for  Minnesota , B. Todd Jones, will take
over as acting chief of the firearms agency, Holder said. He
didn’t explain the reason for the personnel changes.  Jones “will be a strong and steady influence guiding ATF
in fulfilling its mission of combating violent crime by
enforcing federal criminal laws and regulations in the firearms
and explosives industries,” Holder said.  The ATF gun operation, called Fast and Furious, has been
the subject of a congressional investigation. Two of about 2,000
guns that ATF allowed to be carried away were found at the scene
of the December 2010 murder of U.S. Border Patrol agent Brian
Terry in Arizona, according to a report released in June by
Republican  Darrell Issa , of  California , chairman of the House
Oversight and Government Reform Committee, and Chuck Grassley,
of  Iowa , the top Republican on the Senate Judiciary Committee.  Straw Buyers  The operation sought to show a connection between straw
buyers of assault-style weapons in the U.S. and Mexican drug
trafficking organizations working on both sides of the border,
according to the report.  The Justice Department also told Issa’s committee that a
prosecutor in the U.S. attorney’s office in Arizona, Emory
Hurley, is being reassigned, said Becca Watkins, a spokeswoman
for the committee. Hurley was described in the congressional
report as the “lead prosecutor” in the gun operation. An Obama
administration official who wasn’t authorized to publicly
discuss the matter confirmed the reassignment.  Melson told congressional investigators in a July 4
interview that he didn’t review documents related to the program
until after it became a subject of public controversy and that
 Justice Department  officials blocked his attempts to share
information with members of Congress, according to a summary of
the interview released by Issa and Grassley.  ’Fresh Leadership’  Melson and Burke told congressional investigators that
mistakes were made in the gun operation, said Representative
Elijah Cummings of  Maryland , the top Democrat on the government
reform panel, in a statement.  “Fresh leadership will allow ATF to move forward and focus
on its vital mission of enforcing our nation’s gun laws,”
Cummings said.  Issa said in a statement that his committee “will continue
its investigation to ensure that blame isn’t offloaded on just a
few individuals for a matter that involved much higher levels of
the Justice Department.”  Melson may be a “scapegoat for a much larger problem,”
Representative  Lamar Smith , a Texas Republican who is chairman
of the House Judiciary Committee, said in a statement.  “Other senior officials at DOJ may have been involved in
this deadly operation,” Smith said. “Congress will not ignore
an agency so out of control that its decisions and operations
cost American lives.”  Inspector General Investigates  Holder has said he asked the Justice Department’s inspector
general to investigate the program.  Jones, a former U.S. Marine Corps judge advocate and
assistant U.S. attorney, first served as the chief federal
prosecutor in Minnesota during the Clinton administration and
was nominated for the job a second time by President  Barack Obama  in 2009.  ATF has had no permanent director since the job became
subject to Senate confirmation in 2006. The Senate hasn’t acted
on Obama’s nominee, Andrew Traver, the head of the ATF’s Chicago
office, who is opposed by the  National Rifle Association .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  