-- 
Home Prices in U.S. Showed Signs of Stabilizing

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-08-30T14:03:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/u-s-home-prices-showed-signs-of-stabilizing-in-case-shiller-june-index.html
Residential real estate prices in
the U.S. decreased in the year ended in June at a slower pace
than in the prior month, a sign the market may be stabilizing.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities
fell 4.5 percent from June 2010, after a 4.6 percent drop in the
12 months ended May that was the biggest since 2009, the group
said today in  New York . The median forecast of 31 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News projected a 4.6 percent decline.  Values fell by 0.1 percent in June from the prior month
after adjusted for seasonal changes, matching the decrease in
May, indicating the deterioration is slowing. Nonetheless, any
recovery in home values is probably years away as foreclosures
dump more properties onto to the market, while a jobless rate
hovering around 9 percent and strict lending rules hurt sales.  “Prices aren’t going to rebound back rapidly,” said  Paul Dales , a senior U.S. economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in
Toronto. “Most people think that when the downturn ends the
recovery will be pretty good, but that’s not going to be the
case at all.”  Another report today showed  consumer confidence  plunged in
August by the most since October 2008 as Americans grew more
concerned about job prospects. The New York-based Conference
Board’s gauge dropped to 44.5, the lowest reading since April
2009, when the economy was in a recession, the private research
group said.  Shares Fall  Stocks fell amid concern the recent rally had gone too far
given the U.S. economic outlook. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
fell 0.9 percent to 1,199.22 at 10:03 a.m. in New York.  Treasury
securities  rose, sending the yield on the benchmark 10-year note
down to 2.17 percent from 2.26 percent late yesterday.  Estimates for the price change from June 2010 ranged from
declines of 4 percent to 5.5 percent, according to the Bloomberg
survey. The Case-Shiller measure is based on a three-month
average, which means the June data was influenced by
transactions in May and April.  The year-over-year drop in May was the biggest in 18
months.  Nationally, prices decreased 5.9 percent in the second
quarter from the same time in 2010. They increased 3.6 percent
from the previous three months before seasonal adjustment and
climbed 0.1 percent after taking those changes into account.
Property values in the first quarter dropped to the lowest level
in almost nine years.  Unadjusted Increase  Prices in the 20 cities climbed before adjusting for
seasonal changes, rising 1.1 percent in June from the prior
month after climbing 1 percent in May.  The year-over-year gauge provides better indications of
trends in prices, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller group. The
panel includes  Karl Case  and  Robert Shiller , the economists who
created the index.  All of the 20 cities in the index showed a year-over-year
decline in June, led by an 11 percent drop in  Minneapolis .  The smallest 12-month decrease was in Washington, which
showed a 1.2 percent drop.  “This month’s report showed mixed signals for recovery in
 home prices ,”  David Blitzer , chairman of the S&P index
committee, said in a statement. “We are back to regional
housing markets, rather than a national housing market where
everything rose and fell together.”  With joblessness hovering around 9 percent for a second
year, housing has not recovered at the same rate as the rest of
the U.S. Existing home sales fell to 4.91 million last year, the
lowest level since 1997.  Housing ‘Fragile’  “Consumer confidence is still weak, and the housing sector
remains in a fragile state,” Robert Toll, chairman of  Toll
Brothers Inc. (TOL) , the largest U.S. luxury homebuilder, said in Aug.
24 call with analysts. “The nation’s economy continues to
suffer from the lack of jobs in housing construction and the
related manufacturing and service sectors that a decent new-home
market would typically generate.”  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , speaking last
week in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , said “an overhang of distressed
and foreclosed properties, tight credit conditions for builders
and potential homebuyers, and ongoing concerns by both potential
borrowers and lenders about continued house price declines”
have held back the housing market.  During the speech, Bernanke said the economy will probably
improve in the second half of 2011, adding the central bank can
aid the recovery if needed. Housing will stabilize, “if for no
other reason than that ongoing population growth and household
formation will ultimately demand it,” the chairman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  