-- 
U.S. Should Show Its Support for UN by Trying to Fix It: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-08-30T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/u-s-should-show-its-support-for-un-by-trying-to-fix-what-s-wrong-view.html
The  United Nations  is essential but
deeply flawed. We strongly support the institution, but
encourage efforts to make it more effective and efficient.  For much of the world, the UN is the world’s most important
international organization. So it is good news that Secretary
General Ban Ki-moon is prepared to take a leading role in
coordinating economic assistance and supporting Libyan
democracy.  The UN sometimes has international legitimacy that
Western diplomacy lacks and is uniquely qualified to take on
such a mission. But conflict resolution isn’t the only way the
UN helps advance Western interests.  Peacekeeping is another. Almost 120,000 military and
civilian UN  peacekeepers  are now deployed at 16 crisis spots
around the world -- at a total cost of less than $8 billion. In
places like  Sudan , Congo,  East Timor  and  Ivory Coast , the UN is
saving lives, providing security for relief organizations and
economic development experts, and helping national
reconciliation take hold. If the UN didn’t exist, Western
countries would be faced with the horrible choice of either
becoming involved in those conflicts themselves or letting
hundreds of thousands of innocents die. As UN operations draw
troops from the entire world (more than 110 countries are
currently contributing), they make it easier for the U.S. and
 Europe  to concentrate on more difficult missions such as the one
in  Afghanistan .  UN Security Council  resolutions that tightened sanctions on
 Iran  and  North Korea  were major accomplishments, for which
President  Barack Obama  and UN Ambassador  Susan Rice  deserve
credit. By showing a willingness to listen to others Rice has
improved U.S. relations with senior UN officials and other key
delegations. But Obama and Rice have been less successful in
explaining to the American people why supporting the UN is in
the U.S.’s interest.  Financial Accountability  American taxpayers spend about $3.35 billion every year on
the UN. They have a right to insist that this money be spent
well. Ban should do more to show that it is.  Ban seems to have gotten the message. He has strengthened
the UN’s  Office of Internal Oversight Services , which was
established in 1994 to investigate allegations of corruption and
evaluate UN programs. For most of the past 16 years, that office
floundered under ineffective leadership. Things began to change
in September 2010 under  Carman Lapointe , a well regarded
Canadian who Ban appointed. Ban also deserves credit for
mandating a 3 percent across-the-board budget cut for all UN
agencies in response to the economic difficulties facing many
member states. But he could do more by trimming the UN’s
personnel costs and dismissing sub-par performers.  Human Rights  Ban could also use his bully pulpit to support the
principles embedded in the  UN’s Universal Declaration of Human
Rights . For most of his first term as secretary general, which
began in 2007, Ban was reluctant to criticize member states. But
recently he has begun to speak out. Earlier this month, he said
publicly that Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s brutal
crackdown on protesters was “totally unacceptable,” that Assad
will be held accountable, and that he has “lost all sense of
humanity.” Also encouraging was the Aug. 23 vote by the UN Human
Rights Council to send an “independent commission of inquiry to
investigate” violations of human rights in  Syria  and its
condemnation of “continued grave and systematic human rights
violations by Syrian authorities.”  Targeting Israel  But the UN’s credibility on human rights issues is
undermined by the Council’s undue focus on Israel. We accept
that Israel’s conduct in the occupied territories merits
criticism, but unlike Syria and  Libya , Israel isn’t bombarding
civilians on a daily basis. Yet Israel is the only country that
is targeted with a permanent item on the Council’s agenda. Not
 North Korea , not Cuba, not  Zimbabwe  -- only Israel. While Ban
lacks the authority to prevent the Council from politicizing
human rights, he can and should condemn it.  He should also forcefully address the case of Richard Falk,
the Council’s special rapporteur for the Palestinian
Territories. Falk has defended Palestinian  suicide bombers ,
compared  Israel ’s treatment of the Palestinians to Nazi
treatment of Jews, claimed that there was an “apparent coverup”
by the U.S. government of the Sept. 11 attacks, and published a
cartoon on his blog depicting a dog wearing a Jewish skullcap
and a “USA” sweater urinating on Lady Justice and chewing on
human bones.  Over the Line  As an American citizen, Falk has the right to say whatever
he wants about Israel, or the U.S. As an international civil
servant he has the right to criticize either nation’s policies
or actions. But Falk’s statements are so far over the line, he
deserves to be removed from his UN position. Falk later
apologized and acknowledged that the cartoon was anti-Semitic
(though he said he initially thought it was only anti-American).
While Ban has called for Falk’s dismissal, that isn’t enough. He
needs to push Navanethem Pillay, the high commissioner for human
rights, to ask the 47 countries that are members of the Council
to remove him.  Ban will begin his second five-year term as secretary
general on Jan. 1. A strong relationship between the U.S. and UN
is in the interests of both. Building that relationship will
depend as much on Ban as on Obama.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 