-- 
U.S. Bancorp Unit Sues BofA’s Countrywide Over Loan Pool

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-08-30T20:02:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/u-s-bank-national-association-sues-bofa-over-home-loans.html
A U.S. Bancorp unit asked a New York
court to force  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Countrywide Financial
unit to repurchase more than 4,000 loans in a mortgage pool to
repair breaches of contract related to improper underwriting.  The unit,  U.S. Bank National Association , sued Countrywide
yesterday in state court in New York, saying the lender agreed
when it sold the pool in 2005 that it would repurchase all the
loans within 90 days of receiving notice of a material breach.
U.S. Bank is trustee for HarborView Mortgage Loan Trust 2005-10,
which held the pool. The pool’s original value was
$1.75 billion, the bank said in court papers.  “Soon after being sold to the trust, Countrywide’s loans
began to become delinquent and default at a startling rate,”
 U.S. Bank  said in its complaint. “During the time period in
which Countrywide originated the loans, it completely ignored
its underwriting guidelines.”  U.S. Bank asked the court to find that, as a result of a
breach of its seller representation, Countrywide must repurchase
all the loans. Or the court can order Countrywide to repurchase
all defective loans, U.S. Bank said.  “U.S. Bank filed the lawsuit as trustee for HarborView,”
Thomas Joyce, a company spokesman, said. “We filed the lawsuit
on behalf of the investors in the trust, at the direction of the
investors in the trust.”  “We are reviewing the complaint and do not have any
comment at this point,” Lawrence Grayson, a Bank of America
spokesman, said today.  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of
America, which was also sued, acquired Countrywide in 2008.  66% ‘Breached Representations’  A review of loan performance found that in a sample of 786
loans “an extraordinary 66 percent of the loans breached one or
more mortgage representations,” according to the U.S. Bank
complaint. The bank asked Countrywide to “either cure the
breaches or repurchase the loans,” according to the lawsuit.  “To date, Countrywide has failed to repurchase any loan
put back to it by the trustee and has offered no basis for its
refusal,” U.S. Bank’s lawyers said in court papers.  The case is U.S. Bank National Association v. Countrywide
Home Loans Inc., 652388/2011,  New York  State Supreme Court, New
York County ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit 
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 