-- 
Lufthansa CEO Franz Predicts 2011 Profit Gain on Hedging, Maintenance Unit

-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 
2011-08-30T12:34:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/lufthansa-ceo-franz-predicts-2011-profit-gain-on-hedging-maintenance-unit.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  Chief
Executive Officer Christoph Franz said  Europe ’s second-biggest
carrier aims to boost earnings this year as fuel hedging and
non-airline operations leave it better placed than rivals.  Franz said he’s targeting a “positive result” versus 2010,
when earnings before interest and tax totaled 876 million euros
($1.26 billion). Lufthansa is hedged on 75 percent of 2011 fuel
needs, according to its website, while the Lufthansa Technik and
LSG SkyChefs overhaul and catering units aren’t subject to a
German aviation tax, Franz said, diminishing the levy’s impact.  “We are relatively stable in an unstable industry,” Franz
said last night at a briefing in Frankfurt, where Cologne,
Germany-based Lufthansa has its main hub. “We had not at all
taken the rise in  oil prices  into account, but have been
protected against it by our hedging policy.”  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group, which posted net income of 613
million euros in the year ended March 31, reiterated on July 28
that its goal is simply to be profitable this year. Both it and
Lufthansa said that day that they would rein in capacity after
earnings for the three months through June missed estimates.  The  International Air Transport Association  predicts a 78
percent drop in airline-industry net income this year to $4
billion, delivering a 0.7 percent margin, as earnings are
crimped by fuel costs, a sluggish economy and higher taxes.  Lufthansa has said hedging positions benefit it when oil is
priced above $94 a barrel and estimates its full-year fuel bill
at 6.4 billion euros, down from 6.8 billion euros originally.
 Brent crude  for October settlement was priced at about $112
today on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  BMI, Austrian  The German carrier is also trimming winter capacity growth
to 6 percent from 12 percent by using smaller planes, deferring
planned routes and shutting the Lufthansa Italia unit, while
wrapping up a program to cut costs by 1 billion euros from 2008.  Lufthansa will continue with efforts to turn around its
unprofitable British Midland and Austrian Airlines units, Franz
said in the briefing, while declining to rule out disposing of
the businesses should those efforts prove unsuccessful.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Frankfurt   awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  