-- 
UN to Review Nigeria Security Assessment After Abuja Blast

-- B y   D u l u e   M b a c h u
-- 
2011-08-30T17:02:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/un-to-review-nigeria-security-assessment-after-abuja-blast-1-.html
The  United Nations  will review its
security assessment of  Nigeria  after a suicide car-bomb attack
on a UN compound in the capital, Abuja, on Aug. 26 killed 23
people and injured 73, an official said.  “We believed it was a low-to-medium threat, it wasn’t the
type of country where we expected this type of thing to
happen,” UN Under Secretary-General for Safety and Security
Gregory Starr told reporters today in Abuja. The assessment
“was incorrect. We need to reassess the situation.”  Those killed in the attack include 11 UN employees, 10
Nigerians and one Norwegian, nine “non-UN staff and three
unidentified others,” the agency said in a statement. Twelve
“critically injured” employees were evacuated to  South Africa ,
26 other injured people remain in hospital while the rest have
been discharged, UN Resident Coordinator Dauda Toure said.  The blast occurred after a suicide-bomber driving a Honda
CRV knocked down security barriers and crashed into the
reception area of the building housing 26 UN organizations. Boko
Haram, a militant Islamic sect which draws inspiration from
 Afghanistan ’s Taliban movement, claimed responsibility for the
attack, the  BBC  and the Abuja-based Daily Trust newspaper
reported, citing phone calls by a spokesman.  The Nigerian authorities blame the group for a surge in
bombings, including the June 18 attack on the national police
headquarters that killed five people.  Al-Qaeda Links  Arrests have been made in connection with the UN attack,
Police Inspector-General Hafiz Ringim said yesterday at a
meeting with diplomats without giving further details. Three
suspects arrested over the bombing have links to al-Qaeda and
had received training in Mali, Chad and Somalia, Lagos-based
newspaper The Nation reported, without saying where it got the
information.  Africa’s most populous country of more than 150 million
people is roughly split between a mainly Muslim north and a
predominantly Christian south. More than 14,000 people died in
ethnic and religious clashes in the West African nation between
1999 and 2009, according to the Brussels-based  International
Crisis Group .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Abuja at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 