-- 
Hungary Yields May Drop Till Year-End on Budget, Erste Says

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-08-30T14:53:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/hungary-yields-may-drop-till-year-end-on-budget-erste-says-1-.html
Hungarian bonds will probably rally,
sending yields lower, until the end of this year because the
government has committed to sticking to its  budget-deficit 
targets, according to Erste Group Bank AG.  Hungary ’s financing needs will drop by almost a quarter
next year as Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  trims the budget
deficit and repays maturing debt early, Gyula Pleschinger, chief
executive officer of the state debt management agency, said in
an interview yesterday. The ruling Fidesz party is committed to
keeping the budget-deficit target, Janos Lazar, Fidesz
parliamentary caucus leader, said yesterday at a press
conference.  “We view the government’s commitment to the deficit target
a positive sign and forecast bond yields to ease from current
levels until the year-end,” analysts at Erste including Zoltan Arokszallasi in Budapest wrote in a research report today.  The  government bonds  maturing in June 2022, the most
actively traded in Hungary in the last six months, rallied,
pushing the yield nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point,
lower to 7.4 percent as of 4:17 p.m. in Budapest. The forint
depreciated 0.3 percent to 272.7 per euro.  Budget Goal  Hungary wants a budget shortfall of 2.5 percent of gross
domestic product next year, after a gap of 4.3 percent in 2010
and a surplus this year because of the effective nationalization
of private-pension funds and temporary taxes on energy,
financial, retail and telecommunication industries.  The debt agency, known as AKK, may “soon” start using the
funds acquired from the pension portfolios to buy back
government bonds, “which could provide further support” to
securities of “short” and “medium” maturities,  Gyula Toth , a
Vienna-based analyst at UniCredit SpA, wrote in a research
report today.  Hungary today sold 40 billion forint ($212 million) of
three-month Treasury bills at an average yield of 5.65 percent,
the lowest yield since Jan. 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest 
 agergely@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  