-- 
Utilities Push to Restore Power After Brush With Hurricane Irene

-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 
2011-08-30T10:38:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/utilities-work-to-restore-electricity-after-brush-with-hurricane-irene.html
Utility workers restored power to
U.S. homes and businesses after Hurricane Irene moved north to
 Canada , leaving a trail of damage from  North Carolina  to  Maine .  New York , Connecticut and  New Jersey  have the most
customers without power, the U.S. Energy  Department  said
yesterday. The storm made landfall Aug. 27 as a Category 1
hurricane in North Carolina and another landfall as a tropical
storm in New York.  Connecticut had record power losses, with 702,000, or 44
percent, of customers without electricity, more than the
previous record set by Hurricane Gloria in 1985. Long Island
Power Authority said in a 6 a.m.  statement  that it had restored
power to 198,000 customers in New York and 325,000 remained
without as of 9 p.m. yesterday.  “We’re working with the state and towns to help clear over
1,000 roads with 300 already re-opened and have made substantial
progress in assessing the damage to our system,” Jeff Butler,
president of  Connecticut  Light & Power, said  yesterday in the
statement. CL&P is a unit of Springfield, Massachusetts-based
 Northeast Utilities .  Total damage from Irene, which killed at least 31 people
and affected states from South Carolina to Maine, may reach
“tens of billions of dollars,” Gabe Grosberg, a New York-based
analyst for  Standard & Poor’s , said yesterday in a note to
clients.  No ratings changes are anticipated for utilities hit by the
storm because all are expected to “recover the related costs
from customers,” he wrote.  Utilities Index Rises  “It doesn’t necessarily mean shareholders will be
unscathed,” Paul Patterson, a New York-based analyst for
Glenrock Associates LLC, said in an interview. “Generally
speaking, it’s perceived as temporary.”  Dominion Resources Inc. restored power to more than half of
the 1.2 million customers in North Carolina and  Virginia  who had
their electricity cut and is planning to have as much as 95
percent restored by Sept. 2.  Irene drew comparisons to hurricanes Gloria in 1985 and
Isabel in 2003, which also struck the mid-Atlantic coast and New
England. About 4.2 million customers lost electricity from
Isabel and 3.2 million from Gloria.  Property Damage  New York Governor Andrew Cuomo said people who suffered
property damage should file claims as quickly as possible. Winds
from the back side of Irene pummeled Long Island hours after the
landfall, causing additional damage and delaying the start of
repairs.  There was less damage in New York City, where  Consolidated
Edison Inc. (ED)  had restored more than half its customers by noon
yesterday, according to Cuomo’s office. Customers in suburban
Westchester County, where power lines are more subject to damage
from trees, should have power back by late on Sept. 1, the
utility reported on its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  