-- 
Serena Williams Wins in U.S. Open Tennis Return as Djokovic, Nadal Advance

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-08-31T05:11:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/victoria-azarenka-wins-at-u-s-open-as-top-seeds-prepare-for-first-round.html
Serena Williams was warmly received
by New York fans after winning in her return to the U.S. Open,
where she joined defending champion Rafael Nadal and top seeds
Novak Djokovic and  Caroline Wozniacki  in the second round.  Williams, a three-time champion, breezed past 19-year-old
Bojana Jovanovski of Serbia 6-1, 6-1 in 56 minutes in the last
of yesterday’s 61 singles matches at the National Tennis Center.  It was Williams’s first appearance at the year’s final
Grand Slam tennis tournament since 2009, when she berated a
lineswoman and was fined $175,000 after her semifinal loss ended
with a foot fault. Williams is seeded 28th this year after being
slowed by injuries the past two seasons.  “I’m always nervous in the first round,” Williams said in
a televised interview afterwards. “I was a little tight. I
could have played better.”  Nadal, the men’s No. 2 seed from  Spain , had more of a
challenge as he began his title defense with a 6-3, 7-6 (7-1),
7-5 win over Andrey Golubev of Kazakhstan.  The match lasted 2 hours, 49 minutes and Nadal had to rally
to win the final two sets against the 98th-ranked Golubev, who
has a 6-25 record in singles this season. Nadal is seeking his
11th career Grand Slam title, which would tie him with Rod Laver
and Bjorn Borg for fourth most behind Roger Federer (16), Pete Sampras (14) and Roy Emerson (12).  Top Seeds Advance  Djokovic of Serbia won yesterday when Irish qualifier Conor
Niland quit because of fatigue from food poisoning while
trailing 6-0, 5-1. Wozniacki of Denmark beat Nuria Llagostera
Vives of Spain 6-3, 6-1 on day two.  Andy Roddick , whose lone Grand Slam title came at the 2003
 U.S. Open , begins his tournament run today against fellow
American Michael Russell. Roddick, seeded 21st, plays the first
match of the night session at Arthur Ashe Stadium.  Maria Sharapova , the women’s No. 3 seed from  Russia , plays
the second night match against Anastasiya Yakimova of Belarus.
 John Isner  of the U.S., the men’s 28th seed, also plays at night
in Louis Armstrong Stadium against  Marcos Baghdatis  of Cyprus.  Fourth-seeded  Andy Murray  of Britain, Venus Williams of the
U.S. and women’s No. 2 seed Vera Zvonareva of Russia are among
those playing during the day. Williams, a two-time U.S. Open
winner, faces 22nd-seeded Sabine Lisicki of  Germany  in her
second-round match. Lisicki beat Ukraine’s Alona Bondarenko in
straight sets yesterday.  45-0 Record  Serena Williams , who won U.S. Open titles in 1999, 2002 and
2008, will play Michaella Krajicek of the Netherlands for a
place in the third round.  While Williams improved to 45-0 in first-round matches at
tennis’s four major tournaments, French Open champion Li Na was
eliminated with a 6-2, 7-5 loss to Simona Halep of Romania.  The sixth seed’s exit leaves the tournament with no current
women’s Grand Slam champion.  Kim Clijsters of Belgium, the Australian Open and reigning
U.S. Open champion, withdrew Aug. 19 because of a strained
stomach muscle. Wimbledon champion Petra Kvitova of the  Czech
Republic  lost her first-round match two days ago.  “I really want to do well after  Roland Garros , but it’s
not easy,” Li said at a news conference. “Now I even lose all
the confidence on the court.”  Djokovic spent only 44 minutes on the court in improving to
58-2 this season and said he wasn’t troubled by the shoulder
pain that bothered him while competing at the Western and
Southern Open in Cincinnati this month.  ‘No Concern’  “I didn’t feel any pain,” he said. “I served well and I
played well, so I have no concern.”  Djokovic is trying to become the sixth man to win three
Grand Slam titles in the same year after topping Murray in the
Australian Open final and Nadal to win Wimbledon. He’ll face
Carlos Berlocq of Argentina in the second round.  Wozniacki, the 2009 U.S. Open runner-up, faced one break
point in her win yesterday, advancing to a second-round meeting
with Arantxa Rus of the Netherlands.  “The first match is tough to indicate anything, but I’m
happy to be through,” said Wozniacki, in her 46th week as the
No. 1-ranked player in the world.  No. 4 seed Victoria Azarenka of Belarus won in straight
sets yesterday, as did No. 11 seed Jelena Jankovic of  Serbia .  No. 7 Francesca Schiavone of  Italy , 10th-seeded Andrea Petkovic of Germany, No. 15 Svetlana Kuznetsova of Russia, No.
16 Ana Ivanovic of Serbia, No. 20 Yanina Wickmayer of Belgium,
No. 23 Shahar Peer of Israel and No. 26  Flavia Pennetta  of Italy
also reached the second round.  Men’s No. 5 seed David Ferrer of Spain ousted Russia’s Igor Andreev after losing the first set, while Jo-Wilfried Tsonga,
the 11th seed from  France , also advanced. Latvia’s Ernests Gulbis upset No. 16 seed Mikhail Youzhny of Russia.  Tsonga will next play Sergei Bubka, a Ukrainian qualifier
who is the son of the former Olympic gold medal pole vaulter of
the same name.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  