-- 
Volkswagen Has Nowhere to Go But Up With Fuel-Efficient Subcompacts: Cars

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-08-30T22:01:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/volkswagen-has-nowhere-to-go-but-up-with-new-subcompact-cars.html
Berlin florist Manfred Reich drove
 Volkswagen AG (VOW)  vehicles for 25 years until a lack of subcompact
models led him to  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  five years ago. Now, he’s
mulling a switch back to the German automaker when the Up! city
car reaches dealerships later this year.  “VW didn’t have the right product at the time,” said
Reich, 58, who has owned his Toyota Aygo since 2006 and wants to
sell it after “multiple” defects. “Now they do.”  Europe’s biggest automaker is expanding the 62-model
portfolio at the namesake brand by adding its smallest and
cheapest vehicle, seeking to tap growing demand for fuel-
efficient compact cars. The four-seat Up will cost about 9,500
euros ($13,800) and compete with the Aygo and PSA Peugeot
Citroen’s C1 mini in the segment of the volume car market least
affected by the global economic slowdown.  The Up will be the first VW brand car built entirely from
scratch to come to market under Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn . The vehicle, due to go on sale in December, is
strategically important for Winterkorn, who took over in January
of 2007, as VW aims to claim the industry’s top global sales
position by 2018, leapfrogging Toyota and  General Motors Co. (GM)   “VW is plugging a meaningful gap in its portfolio,” said
Henner Lehne, a Frankfurt-based analyst at research firm IHS
Automotive. “You can’t afford to be lacking a solid footing in
the budget segment if you want to become the world leader.”  ‘Huge Potential’  Sales of subcompact cars may rise 30 percent to 7.61
million by 2014, according to IHS. The Up may attract at least
100,000 new buyers per year to the VW brand, marketing chief
Luca de Meo said at a presentation of the car yesterday at the
automaker’s headquarters in Wolfsburg,  Germany . The model, which
will not be sold in the U.S., is primarily for European
customers, he said.  “This is a small vehicle with huge potential,” Winterkorn
told reporters at the presentation. “The Up is another
component of our growth strategy.”  IHS estimates deliveries of the Up, which is 3.54 meters
(11.6 feet) long and 1.64 meters wide, may more than double to
279,717 in 2014 from 118,645 in 2012, its first full year on the
market. Sales of the Aygo, which measures 3.42 meters long and
1.62 meters wide, may grow 26 percent to 89,095 over the next
three years, while the C1 will gain 6.1 percent to 90,553, IHS
forecasts.  Third Time Lucky?  Subcompact sales are rising as buyers seek city cars for
driving in urban centers and governments push automakers to
build vehicles that burn less fuel. Volkswagen has failed in the
past to gain traction in this market, with the Up marking its
third attempt to build a globally successful subcompact.  VW halted production of the Lupo in 2005 after sales of the
vehicle missed targets during its seven-year lifespan, while
exports of the Fox, still built in  Brazil , were squeezed by the
appreciation of the real against the dollar. VW may replace the
Fox with the Up, Ulrich Hackenberg, Volkswagen brand development
chief, said at yesterday’s presentation.  “We’ve long been lacking a presence in the small-car
market,” said Ernst-Robert Nouvertne, who runs two VW
dealerships in Solingen, Germany, about 25 kilometers (15 miles)
northeast of Cologne. “The Up will attract new customers to the
VW brand.”  The three-door Up is based on a new underbody developed for
a family of small cars that will include a roomier five-door
version and a minivan, VW spokesman Markus Arand said. VW will
run over 200 TV commercials and the same number of newspaper ads
later this year to promote the model across  Europe , de Meo said.  Shared Architecture  Volkswagen’s Czech division Skoda and Spanish unit Seat are
sharing the Up architecture to develop vehicles to sell at less
than 9,000 euros, said one person on condition he not be
identified because the price and details of the models haven’t
been published yet.  VW is building the Up in Bratislava, Slovakia, where lower
wages help trim costs. Auto workers in the eastern European
nation earned on average 8.08 euros per hour last year, the
third-lowest in a ranking of 17 EU member states, according to
the VDA German carmakers’ lobby. German workers earned 43.76
euros per hour in 2010.  Still, the Up’s 9,500-euro price tag means it won’t be the
cheapest offering in the subcompact segment. The Kia Motor
Corp.’s Picanto starts at 8,990 euros and GM’s Chevy Spark
begins at 9,140 euros.  VW hopes the new model will help win over buyers like Simon
Dobiasch, a 34-year-old online salesman at Deutsche Lufthansa AG
in  Frankfurt  who was taken by the cheap price for subcompacts
when he decided to buy his Aygo last year. The father of two now
commutes to work from his home in Hanau in less than half the
time required by train.  “I’m gaining flexibility and time,” Dobiasch said. “The
car has been a valuable investment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  