-- 
Wall Street Trader Hires Chopper to Flee VT

-- B y   T o m   M o r o n e y   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-08-31T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/vt-floods-force-fund-manager-to-hitch-copter-ride.html
With the bridges out in Pittsfield,
 Vermont , and its 400 residents marooned, Wall Street trader
Scott Redler took matters into his own hands: He hired a
helicopter and was back home in New Jersey yesterday afternoon.  Redler’s family were weekend wedding guests when Hurricane
Irene’s heavy rains pushed the Tweed River over its banks,
smashing at least 20 homes. With his 65-year-old mother running
out of medicine, Redler, T3Live.com’s chief strategist, found a
pilot charging $7,000 for the rescue.  “I wasn’t going to wait for the state or federal
government,” Redler, 38, said yesterday from his mobile phone
as he waited for the chopper. “I can’t trust them, because I
know I’m not a priority.”  Three days after Hurricane Irene’s remnants inundated the
Northeast, rescuers and residents continue to battle high water
in  New York , New Jersey and Vermont, which suffered its worst
flooding in 75 years.  During a visit yesterday to  North Carolina , where the
hurricane made landfall, Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano said she spoke to Vermont Governor Peter Shumlin.  “We’ll work with the people of Vermont to get them back on
their feet,” she said during a news conference in Manteo.  More than 200 roads were closed, isolating Chester,
Rochester, Wilmington, Mendon, Killington, Cavendish, Ludlow,
Middletown Springs, Granville, Stratton, Pittsfield as well as
portions of Stockbridge, according to Shumlin’s office.  Deadly Passage  There were three deaths and the search was on yesterday for
a missing person in Rutland, according to Susan Allen, Shumlin’s
spokeswoman. There were no damage estimates, she said.  Shumlin, a Democrat, told  MSNBC  yesterday that he was
pleased with the  Federal Emergency Management Agency ’s response.  “The federal government gets an A-plus from this
governor,” Shumlin said. “They’re doing everything they know
how to do.”  Thirty-five FEMA trucks carrying supplies arrived yesterday
at National Guard headquarters in Colchester, where helicopters
began airlifting them to cut-off towns, Allen said.  Impassable roads have cut off Dover, 15 miles from the
Massachusetts border. At the intersection of Route 100 and Route
9 yesterday, a marker showed the water rose nearly nine feet,
above the record marked to commemorate a 1938 hurricane.  Trapped in Killington  In environs of Killington and its namesake ski resort
10,000 people were stranded, including 2,000 vacationers from as
far away as Moscow, according to Town Manager Kathleen Ramsey.
The resort’s base lodge, where skiers check in, collapsed, said
Jimmy LeSage, owner of the New Life Hiking Spa.  Route 4, an east-west axis, is severed in a dozen places
between the nearby towns of Woodstock and Rutland, according to
state officials.  Staffers at inns are hauling water because well pumps
cannot work without electricity. Sergey Zaresky, 57, a guest
from  Chicago  at the Inn of the Six Mountains, was taking pool
water to flush the toilet in his room.  Stranded vacationers at Killington gazed at torn-up roads
and the two resort golf courses, whose water and sand hazards
have become mud pits and lagoons.  “This is off the charts,” said Whit Montgomery, 36, a
Killington police officer and lifelong resident. “Just getting
basic infrastructure back will take many weeks. We will be
dealing with this for years.”  New York Submerged  In neighboring New York, 26 counties saw “devastating
effects” from flooding, power outages and other aftereffects,
Governor  Andrew Cuomo  told President  Barack Obama  in a letter
yesterday requesting emergency aid.  “At least four towns and villages are or were underwater:
Fleischmanns, Margaretville, Prattsville and Windham,” he
wrote. “Also, towns of Middleburgh and Schoharie were
completely inundated and under water, with the Middleburgh High
School being completely destroyed.”  In  New Jersey , 11 rivers reached or surpassed record levels
and inundated thousands of homes and businesses, Governor Chris Christie said yesterday. Totowa, Fairfield and Woodland Park saw
more evacuations yesterday because the Passaic River remained
above flood stage, he said.  In Manville, as many as 10,000 people near the Raritan and
Millstone rivers were affected. Businesses throughout Manville
placed furniture on sidewalks as they bailed out.  “After the storm had passed, it’s inland flooding that’s
the largest problem and we’re seeing that right now,” Christie
said in a news briefing in Wayne.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Moroney in Boston at 
 tmorrone@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Nj Statehouse at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  