-- 
Walsh Says Buffett Call to Tax Rich ‘Disingenuous’ (Transcript)

-- B y  
-- 
2011-08-30T18:15:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/walsh-says-buffett-call-to-tax-rich-disingenuous-transcript-.html
U.S. Representative Joe Walsh, an  Illinois  Republican, talks about his
reaction to billionaire Warren Buffett’s call to increase taxes for the wealthy.      Walsh, speaking with
 Matt Miller  and Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack,” also discusses the U.S.
deficit and debt ceiling negotiations. (Source: Bloomberg)  (This is not a legal transcript of the interview. Bloomberg
LP cannot guarantee its accuracy.)  MATT MILLER, BLOOMBERG NEWS: Warren Buffett wants higher taxes for the rich
- the very, very, very rich - whom he says are cuddled. He also calls the tea party’s approach, the budget
talks, insane. Let’s bring in then to answer that, Congressman Joe Walsh.  He’s a first-term Republican from Illinois and a member of
the tea party caucus. Congressman Walsh is in Chicago joining
us.  So thanks for spending the time out, Congressman. What do
you think, first of all, about  Warren Buffett ’s op-ed a few
weeks ago for the extremely rich to pay more taxes.  REP. JOE WALSH (R), ILLINOIS: I think Mr. Buffett needs a
day job. He’s got too much time out of his hands. I mean, this
is ridiculous. He’s so disingenuous but it’s interesting, he’s
heating up his rhetoric because I think his support for the
President is so desperate.  Look, he knows a couple of things. He always talks about
the fact that the folks that work for him pay more taxes than
him because he gets most of his income from capital gains and
dividends. He knows that’s disingenuous. He knows that when you
- go ahead.  DEIRDRE BOLTON, BLOOMBERG NEWS: But Congressman, but that’s
what he’s saying is that he’s saying people such as himself and
he did point out these  capital gains , loopholes if you want to
call them that are exactly he’s saying.  He actually doesn’t mind giving up for parts of his
investments so that he pays taxes and granted that, as Matt
pointed out, we’re only talking about the very, very rich. We’re
not taking about middle-class America. We’re not talking about
upper middle-class America. We’re talking about billionaires.  WALSH: No, and that’s the most troubling aspect. I think
the latest estimates were that we have about 250,000
millionaires and billionaires. President Obama wants to increase
their taxes 13 percent.  According to the latest figure, that’ll add about $26
billion to the government pot. You’re talking about trillions of
dollars worth of deficits, a $14 trillion debt.  He knows darn well and the President darn well that you
can’t tax millionaires and billionaires and do anything about
the deficit or the debt. Most Americans get it. They’re going to
end up taxing people…  BOLTON: That’s because it’s a drop in the bucket, do you
mean?  WALSH: Absolutely. Most Americans see through that. That’s
why this is so disingenuous. You can’t do anything about the
deficit and the debt if you go after millionaires and
billionaires. And somebody as cuddled as Warren Buffett knows
that.  MILLER: Well, and to your point, I mean, there are only
about a thousand billionaires, right? Deirdre and I were talking
about the fact that if you make a million bucks, you don’t cut
it in this club. That’s not what Warren Buffett is talking
about. So obviously, it’s a tiny group of the population which
also is a group that incidentally could easily move its wealth
to a different country if it wanted to.  Let’s go a different direction, though, here, Congressman.
A lot of people, a lot of Republicans that I’ve heard from
recently are concerned that the tea party has helped us miss a
great opportunity during the debt debate to reform the  tax code 
which so many people would like to see.  Why was there such a “we don’t budge” approach to these
negotiations? I mean, Warren Buffett’s point is interesting. Why
should I pay more tax on an income that I earn working, say, at
a gas station and you should on income that you earn from bonds
that your parents gave you? Why don’t we reform this tax code to
make more sense?  WALSH: We should. And Republicans have been talking about
reforming the code for years. We should do that. And we will do
that. Look, thank god for this troublesome tea party
Republicans.  I mean, just imagine how life would be different if we were
in Congress. We’d erase the debt ceiling without even thinking
about it a few months ago. Maybe that would have made Mr.
Buffett happy.  BOLTON: Congressman, honestly, many people blame the tea
party for the impasse in -  WALSH: No -  BOLTON: - raising the ceiling, for the impasse in the
budget debate. And actually, argue that the U.S. lost its  credit
rating  because of the inexperience of some of the tea party.  WALSH: We lost our credit rating because this country is in
debt. We lost our credit rating because this President has
increased the debt $4 trillion in two and a half years. He knows
that. Warren Buffett knows that. And that’s what the credit
agencies told us. Look, the American people understand that if
these troublesome tea party Republicans hadn’t gotten here.  We’d erase the debt ceiling without even thinking about it.
And we’d be spending away our kids’ future every single day.  BOLTON: Congressman, we want to continue the conversation.
We’re going to ask you to sit tight. Congressman Joe Walsh is
going to be rejoining us after this break.  (BREAK)  MILLER: All right. We are back with Congressman Joe Walsh
of Illinois, a freshman Republican and a member of the tea party
caucus, rejoining us from  Chicago . Congressman, thanks for
staying with us through the break.  WALSH: Thank you.  MILLER: Let me ask you what you expect from the super
committee coming up here because it didn’t look like a
compromise was a possibility and really, the debt deal probably
didn’t accomplish all that much as far as actually reducing
debt. What do you expect from the super committee coming up?  WALSH: My expectations aren’t high. Look, the debt deal
didn’t do much. It disappointed me that we formed this super
committee to do the work that Congress should do.  Maybe there’s an opportunity that they can come together on
something. Certainly, there’s an incentive for them to come
together on something because if they can’t, there’ll be
automatic cuts to Defense and automatic cuts to Medicare.  And I don’t think anybody up on  Capitol Hill  wants that.
But look, we just keep putting off the hard decisions. And I
think we’re beyond the committee. We’re beyond the commission.
We need to cut spending. And Congress just isn’t serious enough
about it. This President has no clue.  MILLER: You know, a viewer writes in and asked me if the
idea of raising taxes - what do you think about raising taxes on
the wealthy on the millionaires and billionaires would at least
help the people earning less to stomach the cuts in the social
net that they’re going to see. I mean, it’s a compromise, right?
Isn’t that what politics is all about?  WALSH: Ultimately, yes. But again, it makes no sense. If
you raise taxes on millionaires and billionaires, you’ll do
nothing to address the debt and the deficit. And the thing you
might do is you might finally put this economy over another
cliff. These millionaires and billionaires are the folks that
try to create jobs and help grow the economy. The last thing we
want to do is increase taxes on them right now.  MILLER: What about the idea that, you know, if we would get
rid of the loopholes and then the deductions -  WALSH: Yes.  MILLER: - that a lot of people say are  Washington ’s gravy
train and that’s that the politicians will never allow us to do
that but if we could and flatten the tax, had everyone put a
little skin in the game here, we could raise revenues and really
get this country growing at the same time.  WALSH: We could and we should. Everybody gets ticked off
about GE paying no taxes. Look, we have a complicated,
convoluted tax system. And only big corporations and wealthy
individuals like Warren Buffett can take advantage of it. We
need to simplify and flatten the code, get rid of all the
loopholes.  Again, Republicans have been talking about this for a while
so that the wealthiest pay their fair share. We just don’t want
to increase taxes. We want them to pay their fair share.  MILLER: All right, Congressman, thanks so much for joining
us. Congressman Joe Walsh joining us from Illinois, coming to us
there from Chicago.  #<737337.11770.2.1.87.23378.25>#
 