-- 
Buffett Widens Rift With Republicans by Faulting Tea Party

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-08-30T13:31:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/warren-buffett-s-widenening-rift-with-republicans.html
Warren Buffett, the self-made
billionaire and son of a former Republican congressman, has
widened the rift with his father’s party by pressing for tax
increases on the wealthy and reinforcing ties with President
Barack Obama.  Buffett endured scorn from Republicans this month after he
called the Tea Party approach to budget talks “insane” and
proposed raising $500 billion by taxing the richest Americans.
Buffett, chief executive officer of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , was
cited as an exemplar by Obama at least three times since July.  “Whenever Buffett says something, you can almost put money
on the fact that within the next 48 hours, Obama’s going to use
the phrase, ‘My good friend Warren Buffett says blah, blah,
blah,’” said David Rolfe, chief investment officer of Berkshire
shareholder Wedgewood Partners Inc. “If you’re going to tread
into those waters, you need to expect the brickbats.”  Buffett’s criticism contrasts with praise he offered in the
last decade to former California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger
and the political appointees of former President George W. Bush.
The Tea Party movement, which made gains in last year’s
elections, was faulted by Buffett for silencing other Republican
voices. Buffett plans to hold a Sept. 30 fundraiser in  New York
City  for Obama’s re-election bid, Democratic officials said.  Support for Republicans  Buffett, 81, has championed causes like abortion rights and
the estate tax through his career, even as he cultivated
relationships with Republican leaders. Buffett, a Democrat, was
an economic adviser for Schwarzenegger’s 2003 campaign and
repeatedly praised Bush’s picks, including former Treasury
Secretary  Henry Paulson  and Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, for their handling of the 2008 credit crunch.  Buffett raised his voice as Democrats and Republicans
sparred over a budget deficit of more than $1 trillion and
worked on campaigns for the 2012 presidential election. Buffett,
whose fortune is valued at more than $35 billion, has delved
into public policy since July in a New York Times op-ed and
interviews with CNBC, Bloomberg Television and Charlie Rose.  “The speak-softly approach wasn’t working, and he didn’t
think enough people were paying attention,” said  Whitney Tilson , co-founder of Berkshire shareholder T2 Partners LLC and
a member of Patriotic Millionaires for Fiscal Strength, which
advocates higher taxes on the rich. “He’s doing it because he
believes in it, not because it’s in his self interest.”  ‘A Sound Bite’  Buffett built Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire from a
failing textile mill into a $180 billion seller of insurance,
energy and freight hauling with more than 250,000 employees.  “I think Mr. Buffett needs a day job,” Representative Joe Walsh, an Illinois Republican elected with Tea Party support,
said today in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Inside
Track.” “These millionaires and billionaires are the folks
that try to create jobs and grow the economy. The last thing we
want to do is increase taxes on them right now.”  U.S. Representative  Michele Bachmann , a candidate for the
Republican presidential nomination, derided Buffett’s tax
proposal as “a sound bite” and suggested he donate his fortune
to the government. Another Republican candidate, Herman Cain,
said Buffett was “playing the class warfare card.” A headline
in the Wall Street Journal’s Deal Journal blog asked, “Is
 Warren Buffett  a Socialist?”  ‘Coddled Long Enough’  The wealthy should pay more, given that “the poor and
middle class fight for us in Afghanistan” and are often
required to contribute a greater portion of their earnings to
the government, Buffett said in the Times. He said billionaires
had been “coddled long enough” by Congress and proposed
increasing some government revenue from capital gains that are
currently taxed at 15 percent.  “Buffett has always been in favor of taxes, and he’s
always been in favor of a progressive scale,” said Roger Lowenstein, the journalist and author of “Buffett: The Making
of an American Capitalist.” “What’s new is that the Republican
Party has moved to the right of Genghis Khan.”  Republicans want to use their control of the House and
their ability to block bills in the Senate to continue tax cuts
passed under Bush and extended last year under Obama. If
Congress doesn’t act, the top tax rate on ordinary income will
rise in 2013 to 39.6 percent and the top tax rate on  capital
gains  will climb to 23.8 percent, partly because of an increase
included in last year’s health-care law.  Charity Pledge  Buffett met less public resistance when he and Microsoft
Corp. co-founder Bill Gates challenged fellow billionaires last
year to commit at least half their wealth to philanthropy.  Executives including Blackstone Group LP CEO  Stephen Schwarzman  had already staked out resistance to tax increases
proposed by Obama. Schwarzman likened an Obama proposal to Adolf
Hitler’s invasion of  Poland ,  Newsweek   reported  in 2010.  Schwarzman  apologized  for the comparison and maintained his
opposition to increasing revenue from the so-called carried
interest paid to executives at private-equity firms and  hedge
funds . Carried interest is the portion of profits taken as
compensation and taxed at the capital-gains rate which is lower
than ordinary income-tax rates.  Obama’s plan, like Buffett’s, focuses on applying income
tax rates to some earnings that are currently categorized as
capital gains. Alan “Ace” Greenberg, former CEO of Bear
Stearns Cos., is among executives who support Buffett’s call for
higher taxes on the wealthy.  ‘I Want to Pay More’  “I agree with him, I want to pay more taxes,” said
Greenberg, now at JPMorgan Chase & Co. “For him to pay less
taxes percentagewise than what his secretary pays is
ridiculous.”  Buffett has said his tax rate is the lowest among the about
20 employees at Berkshire’s headquarters. Capital gains from
most assets held for longer than a year are taxed at a top rate
of 15 percent, while wage income is taxed at a top rate of 35
percent. The difference between those two accounts for Buffett’s
lower rate.  Buffett has praised members of both parties for offering to
compromise. Among them are Republicans Alan Simpson, co-chairman
of a deficit-reduction commission; and Tom Coburn, an Oklahoma
senator; and Democrats Erskine Bowles, the commission co-chair
with Simpson; and Dick Durbin, an Illinois senator.  ‘A Real Statesman’  “They were putting the country ahead of their personal
feelings,” Buffett told  Charlie Rose  in the interview broadcast
on PBS on Aug. 15. “I may not agree with Tom Coburn but I think
that, you know, I think he’s a real statesman.”  Buffett said candidates for the Republican nomination were
taking a “country-be-damned” approach to budget talks. The
contestants were “pathetic” in an Aug. 11 debate when they
indicated an unwillingness to accept $1 in revenue increases for
every $10 in spending cuts, Buffett said.  Buffett faulted Republican members of Congress who refused
to concede points to Obama in pursuit of a broader compromise.
The negotiations, which yielded an agreement for $2.4 trillion
in deficit savings and identified only spending cuts, were
conducted under the threat of a U.S. default as Congress
approached a deadline to raise the nation’s borrowing limit.  Buffett evoked the image of House Speaker John Boehner and
Senate minority leader Mitch McConnell, both Republicans,
driving a car. He said the talks became a showdown with a
Democrat car to see which would flinch to avert a collision.  ‘They’re Insane’  “A group behind them said, ‘Throw out the steering wheel,
Mr. Speaker, and make those people realize that we’re not going
to agree to anything unless we get our way,’” Buffett said.
“You feel they’re insane. You lose. And the American people
lost.”  Berkshire’s ties to  Washington  increased in the past decade
as Buffett moved the company beyond insurance, which is overseen
by the states, into federally regulated industries of energy
production and freight hauling. Berkshire lobbied Congress last
year on lawmaker proposals to tighten regulation of derivatives.  “I have to think if I’m a shareholder that I’m
disappointed,”  Meyer Shields , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus &
Co., said of Buffett’s criticism of Republicans. “There is
enormous risk in taking one side and then, when the pendulum
swings, just exposing yourself to that sort of backlash.”  Buy and Hold  Buffett worked to minimize tax expenses for the private
partnerships he managed in the 1960s, a focus that helped form
his buy-and-hold stock-picking strategy and build his own
personal wealth, Matthews said, citing Buffett’s letters to
investors. For most of the 1960s, capital gains were taxed at a
maximum effective rate of 25 percent while top wage earners paid
marginal income tax rates of  70 percent to 91 percent , depending
on the year.  As a  money manager , Buffett’s performance compensation was
taxed at capital-gains rates, Matthews said.  “Here’s a guy who benefited from the exact same
inefficiency in the market that he’s now yapping about,” said
Matthews, who owns Berkshire stock. “What he’s not saying is,
‘Look guys, I ran a hedge fund, I used to benefit from the same
tax advantages I’m complaining about now.’”  “Carried interest income, taxed at a 25 percent rate, has
been less than 2 percent of Mr. Buffett’s total taxable income
in his 60 years of investment activity,”  Carrie Kizer , an
assistant to Buffett at Berkshire, said in an e-mail. Buffett
didn’t comment for this story.  Political Donations  Buffett made political donations of $112,300 since 1990,
according to  data  from the Center for Responsive Politics in
Washington. Obama,  Hillary Clinton  and Democratic Senator Ben Nelson of  Nebraska  were among the biggest individual recipients.
Three former lawmakers from the Republican Party, Christopher Shays of  Connecticut , Nebraska’s Tom Osborne and Nancy Kassebaum Baker of Kansas, received a total of $8,900 from Buffett,
according to the data. Buffett’s father,  Howard Buffett , was a
Republican representative from Nebraska.  Buffett, who advised Obama during the 2008 election
campaign, was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom in
February. He met the president at the White House in July to
discuss philanthropy, and Obama called Buffett this month to
talk about the economy.  “I think he’s leading us to the right place,” Buffett
said in a July 8 interview with Bloomberg Television’s Betty Liu. Obama “has ideas about what America can and should be that
are in synch with mine.”  Buffett said he paid almost $7 million in federal taxes on
about $39.8 million of taxable 2010 income. Buffett makes a
salary of $100,000 at Berkshire and records capital gains on the
returns from his personal investments. The bulk of his wealth is
held in shares of Berkshire, which doesn’t pay a dividend.
Buffett has said that more than 99 percent of his fortune will
go to charity. The donations will allow him to reduce his estate
tax liability.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  