-- 
Wealthy Use Auctions to Sell U.S. Mansions After Price Cuts Fail

-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 
2011-08-30T13:14:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/wealthy-use-auctions-to-sell-u-s-mansions-after-price-cuts-fail.html
David Sandwith has been trying to
unload his seven-bedroom house on Mercer Island,  Washington ,
since 2009, listing it first for $32 million, then cutting the
price to $28.8 million last year. After not receiving any
acceptable offers, he’s putting it up for auction.  “I have a growing family and I have opportunities that I
want to pursue in my life, and that doesn’t necessarily mean
that I will be located here in the greater Northwest,”
Sandwith, 41, said in a telephone interview. “The time is right
for us to sell the home.”  Real estate auctions, long used in the sale of foreclosed
properties, are becoming more popular among wealthy homeowners
to drum up interest for mansions that have languished on the
market after the housing crash. In exchange for a quicker sale,
many sellers are accepting price cuts of 50 percent or more.  Sandwith, a father of four who retired in 2007 after
selling a family company, hired Gadsden, Alabama-based  J.P. King
Auction Co.  to find a buyer for his 14,000-square-foot (1,300-
square-meter) waterfront property. The sale, to be held today,
doesn’t have an opening bid. The reserve auction will allow
Sandwith to decline any offer he doesn’t deem high enough.  Mega-Mansions  “While our bread and butter are auctions for homes between
$3 million and $8 million, calls for these mega-mansions have
doubled this year,” said Caley King Newberry, a J.P. King
spokeswoman. “Many didn’t have to sell when they wanted to in
2008 and 2009 because they had the holding power, but now
they’ve decided it’s time to move on with their lives.”  At a J.P. King competitor,  Grand Estates Auction Co ., only
about 12 percent of auctions are the result of financial
distress, said Stacy Kirk Reich, president of the  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based company. The number of buyers has risen 130
percent since 2006, she said.  “Sellers will come to us for various reasons, maybe the
death of a loved one or a divorce, but most frequently because
they are reallocating wealth to other locations,” said Kirk
Reich, whose company specializes in auctions of properties
valued at $1.5 million to $10 million.  The company gets an average of 276 inquiries per listing
and 16 bidders per auction.  Home-Price Decline  Homeowners are seeking new methods for selling their
properties as the  U.S. economy  shows signs of sputtering.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has declined 6.4 percent in
August, poised for its fourth straight month of losses. Morgan
Stanley said on Aug. 18 that the U.S. and  Europe  are
“dangerously close” to recession. The S&P/Case-Shiller index,
a gauge of  home prices  in 20 U.S. cities, fell 4.5 percent in
June from a year earlier, according to a report today.  The number of sales at  Premiere Estates Auction Co ., which
sells luxury properties, rose 30 percent last year, said Anthony
Fitzgerald, a broker with the  Manhattan Beach , California-based
company. He wouldn’t say how many homes the company sold. The
gain is likely to be exceeded this year, he said.  “The actual dollar amount of homes auctioned off has also
increased by about that much,” Fitzgerald said. “It means
there are more auctions but there are also more high-end
auctions. I think it’s fair to say that we’ve seen a 100 percent
increase in opening bid prices.”  $22 Million  Premiere Estates is  preparing the sale  of a Malibu,
 California , beach estate owned by William Chadwick, a managing
director at investment bank Chadwick Saylor & Co. The minimum
bid is $22 million. With an original listing price of $65
million in 2008, it is the highest-priced home ever to go to
auction, according to Fitzgerald.  At an open house in early August, about a dozen people at a
time walked through the 10,500-square-foot, nine-and-a-half
bathroom estate, which has five fireplaces, an ocean-view gym, a
$1.5 million home theater with leather recliners, and a 75-foot
(23-meter) lap pool on a 4,500-square-foot patio.  The home sits on “Billionaire Beach,” a stretch of Malibu
officially known as Carbon Beach, where Jeffrey Katzenberg,
chief executive officer of DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc., and
 Paul Allen , co-founder of  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , also have homes.  The home, which Chadwick built in 2005, is assessed at
$6.08 million and the land at $2.45 million, according to public
records. Chadwick bought the property from  Pepperdine University 
in 2002 for $2 million, according to the Los Angeles County
assessor’s office. The $22 million starting bid at the auction
is based on recent sales of comparable properties in the area,
Fitzgerald said.  Relocating to  Chicago   Chadwick is selling because he wants to relocate closer to
his wife’s family in Chicago, according to Carol Bird, the
home’s listing agent with  Westside Estate Agency . Chadwick
didn’t respond to a voice mail left at his office. His company,
based in  Los Angeles , won’t be affected by the move, Bird said.  Interest at the open house indicates a sale may happen
before the auction, scheduled for Sept. 18,  Bird  said. Should it
come to auction, Chadwick has the right to decline bids he
doesn’t consider to be satisfactory.  While auctions usually result in a sale -- at Grand Estates
the success rate is 94 percent -- they can bring about hefty
price reductions from the original listing prices.  “Many sellers have unrealistic expectations of the worth
of their homes,” said Chris Longly, a spokesman at the  Overland
Park , Kansas-based  National Auctioneers Association .  Half Original Listing  Jack Gerlach, who sold his Malibu home in an auction
conducted by Premiere Estates last year after it had been
sitting on the market since 2008, got $2.6 million for it --
less than half the original listing price of $5.5 million.  “During those two years my house was on the market, I was
in a way at a standstill,” he said. “To use the auction
process was a decision to move forward.”  Gerlach, 32, a  residential real estate developer , is in the
process of building a 10,000-square-foot Mediterranean home in
Malibu for his wife and himself. To move ahead with the “dream
project,” which he’s planned for six years, as well as two
investment properties he’s developing in the Hollywood Hills, he
wanted to unload his loft-style house, which has floor-to-
ceiling windows.  His loans on the property -- which he bought for almost $1
million and spent $600,000 to renovate with features such as
white marble imported from  Greece  -- were “significantly
below” the value of the house, he said. Gerlach decided last
year to auction it, which resulted in a sale in June 2010.  Battle to Top  “Auctions draw in a huge amount of people,” Gerlach said
in a telephone interview. “You always have that dream that two
people will walk in” and “battle each other to the top,” he
said.  Most auctions at Grand Estates have fetched between 80
percent to 120 percent of the tax value of properties sold
during the past 18 months. Tax values are often well below the
prices real estate sold for during the peak years of 2005 to
2007, said Fitzgerald of Premiere Estates.  At Premiere, a  Malibu  home originally listed for $8.4
million in September 2008 and cut to $6.9 million by December
2010, sold for $5.2 million in an auction this April. An estate
in  Corona del Mar , California, was priced at $19 million in
October of last year, reduced to $12.9 million in January and
sold for $7.5 million in April. A mansion in  La Jolla ,
California, was listed for $15 million in February 2009, lowered
to $12.9 million in September 2010 and auctioned for $8 million
in December.  No Overpayments  “Nobody is going to overpay in an auction,” said Katie
Bentzen, 56, who sold her Malibu home with a view of Zuma Beach
in October 2009 for $900,000, a 47 percent discount from the
original listing price. “If you really want to move on with
your life now, people have to be ready to get real on the price
of their home.”  For Andrew Osinski, 67, a former managing director of the
global asset management division of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., it was time to move on after his wife’s death eight years
ago and his four children left his waterfront home on Long
Island Sound in Darien,  Connecticut .  “After I listed the house last year, it quickly became
stale,” Osinski said. “I’ve been a trader all my life. There’s
nothing worse than sitting on a stale position. I wanted to try
to get out now.”  Market Change  He had listed the five-bedroom, seven-bathroom property --
which he bought in 1994 for $1.52 million and subsequently
rebuilt -- in May of last year for $12.5 million. This June,
after six weeks of promoting the auction and showing the house
to potential bidders, it sold through New York-based  Concierge
Auctions  for $8 million, the low end of a range that extended to
as much as $10 million the company had suggested. Osinski had a
$5 million loan on the property.  “The market has changed,” he said. “I asked too much, as
we all do. I hung on for a long time. But this is it. It’s time
to move on.”  Osinski, who is retired, is looking to buy a home in
Naples,  Florida , where he plans to spend most of the year, as
well as a second property, a 3,000-square-foot, cottage-style
house with a private dock close to Darien.  Sandwith says he expects high bids for his Mercer Island
home because “some of the highest recorded sales have been
conducted through auction.”  He bought the lot, which had an old house on it, for $5.38
million in 2004, according to King County, Washington, public
records.  “That’s a significant piece of property to commit to,”
Sandwith said. “I don’t want to limit myself.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  