-- 
Wheat Declines on Speculation Rain May Help U.S. Winter Sowing; Corn Falls

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-08-30T12:35:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/wheat-declines-on-speculation-rain-may-help-u-s-winter-sowing-corn-falls.html
Wheat futures fell for a second day
in  Chicago  on speculation rain forecast for parts of the U.S.
may improve planting conditions for the winter crop. Rice
climbed to the highest level since October 2008.  Recent rains hit parts of the Midwest including Nebraska,
north Kansas, Iowa and Missouri, Telvent DTN Inc. said in a
report yesterday. There is a chance of showers in winter-wheat
areas in the central and Southern plains next week, it said.  “The latest weather reports suggest some of the driest
U.S. hard-red winter wheat regions will get period rainfall
over the next 10 days,”  Luke Mathews , a commodity strategist
at Commonwealth Bank of  Australia , said in a report e-mailed
today. “Any improvement in soil moisture will be welcome”
ahead of planting, he said.  December-delivery wheat fell as much as 1.4 percent to
$7.8425 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade and was at
$7.84 at 1:14 p.m. in London.  Drought from  Kansas  to  Texas  has caused the driest
conditions on record, which may hurt winter planting. Southwest
and south-central Kansas had the least precipitation on record
in the first seven months of the year, according to Mary Knapp,
the state meteorologist.  Milling wheat for November delivery fell 0.9 percent to
212 ($305.43) euros on NYSE Liffe in Paris.  Corn for December delivery fell 1.1 percent to $7.6175.
Soybeans for November delivery dropped 0.5 percent to $14.395 a
bushel.  Corn’s Advance  Corn has climbed 14 percent in the past month and wheat
has risen 9.9 percent. U.S. farmers will harvest a smaller corn
crop than forecast by the government this month, the
Professional Farmers of America newsletter said after sponsoring
the 19th annual tour of Midwest fields in seven states last
week.  “Clearly the yield numbers that came out of the crop tour
last week will be supportive for prices over the second half of
2011,” Luke Chandler, head of agricultural-market research at
Rabobank International in  London , said by phone.
“Fundamentally, we see prices remaining at elevated levels
throughout the remainder of 2011 and into 2012.”  Rough-rice for November delivery gained as much as 0.9
percent to $17.705 for 100 pounds in Chicago, and was last at
$17.615.  Futures surged 53 percent in the past year, as production
in the U.S., the world’s fourth-largest shipper of the grain,
is forecast to slump by the most since 1984, while  Thailand ,
the world’s largest exporter, plans to buy the grain from
farmers at above-market prices.  “Crop damage in many countries around the globe is
happening at the same time Thailand plans to buy paddy rice
from farmers above market prices, driving the rally,” said
Kiattisak Kanlayasirivat, director at Novel Commodities SA’s
office in Thailand in Bangkok.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in  Singapore  at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net 
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net 
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 