-- 
Wheat Futures Decline on Speculation Demand for U.S. Exports May Shrink  W

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 
2011-08-30T19:40:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/wheat-futures-decline-on-speculation-demand-for-u-s-exports-may-shrink-w.html
Wheat fell for a second straight day
on speculation that demand for U.S. exports may slide as
importers seek cheaper supplies from growers in Russia and
Eastern Europe.  Yemen bought 100,000 metric tons of wheat from the  Black
Sea region , Paris-based farm adviser Agritel said today. Wheat
futures touched a three-month high yesterday, before retreating,
on concern that adverse weather would hurt U.S. crops. Gains may
have been exaggerated, as Middle Eastern importers have stepped
up purchases from other suppliers, shunning U.S. grain.  “Wheat is not at all-time highs, but it’s certainly above
normal  price levels ,” Dan Kuechenmeister, the manager of the
commodities department at RBC Wealth Management in  Minneapolis ,
said in a telephone interview. “We don’t have any new bullish
news for the grain markets to go higher.”  Wheat futures for December delivery fell 4.25 cents, or 0.5
percent, to settle at $7.9075 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade. Yesterday, the price climbed to $8.055,
the highest for a most-active contract since May 31, before
declining. The grain is up 10 percent this month.  Russia ’s harvest of grains including wheat may exceed 90
million metric tons, the state-run Rossiyskaya Gazeta newspaper
reported today, citing an interview with Agriculture Minister
 Yelena Skrynnik . That’s bigger than forecaster SovEcon’s
estimate of as much as 88 million tons. On July 1, Russia, once
the second-largest wheat exporter, lifted a ban on shipments
that was imposed after drought reduced domestic supplies.  ‘Light Showers’  Areas of west-central  Kansas  and southern Nebraska got as
much as 0.75 inch (1.9 centimeters) of rain last night,
according to a Telvent DTN forecast. Much of southern Kansas,
Texas and  Oklahoma  are suffering from record drought. The
southern Great Plains, where winter wheat will be planted in the
next two months, may have “a few light showers” through Sept.
4, Telvent said.  “There’s a chance of rain, but the drought is not going to
get busted until we get a really steady rain,” said Dennis Delaughter, the owner of Progressive Farm Marketing Inc. in
Edna,  Texas . “We’ve got cracks 2 inches wide in some of our
wheat land that we’re planning on planting in. We’re going to
need to have a good rainfall.”  The U.S. is the world’s biggest wheat exporter. The grain
is the country’s fourth-largest crop, valued at $13 billion last
year, behind corn, soybeans and hay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 