-- 
Whistle-Blowers Say Obama Fails Scientists

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-08-30T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/whistle-blowers-say-obama-fails-scientists.html
President  Barack Obama  directed his
science adviser in March 2009 to guarantee the integrity of work
by government researchers. Two years later, the science office
came up with a shortcut, whistle-blower groups say.  Just restate existing policies or copy boilerplate
promising to protect scientists reporting political
interference, the office advised in a memo.  Nineteen agencies have submitted plans to the White House.
The watchdog groups said the proposals made public so far are
too vague to prevent incidents such as the editing of climate-
change findings by appointees during President  George W. Bush ’s
administration and what the critics say was retaliation against
career employees who objected.  “The language tends to be too general and lacking in
enforcement” to keep “some politically motivated manager from
engaging in abuse,” Rick Piltz, director of Climate Science
Watch in Washington, said in a Bloomberg Government interview.  Rejecting such criticism, Rick Weiss, a spokesman for the
White House  Office of Science and Technology Policy , said the
Obama initiative is providing unprecedented protection for
research.  It “will set a new floor for assuring scientific integrity
across the executive branch,” Weiss said in an e-mail.  “I
understand that some have the job of being critical and ever
pushing for more, but I see the promulgation of these policies
as historic.”  Energy Disputes  Energy policy has dominated government disputes over the
use of science, from the Bush administration’s opposition to
caps on  carbon emissions  to the Obama administration’s decision
to scrap a planned nuclear-waste repository at Yucca Mountain in
Nevada.  “The public must be able to trust the science and
scientific process informing public policy decisions,” Obama
said in the March 2009 memorandum. He asked John Holdren,
director of the White House science office, to lead the effort
to establish new protections.  The recommendations the office distributed on March 29 of
this year said, “To the extent your agency or department has
already explicitly adopted specific whistle-blower protections,
you may simply make reference to them in your scientific-
integrity policy.”  Another option was for agencies to offer language “akin
to” assurances that “(Agency or Department name) shall
continue to comply with the requirements of the Whistleblower
Protection Act of 1989,” according to the memo posted on the
science office’s website.  ‘Late, Lax’  “If an agency delivers a ham sandwich and says, ‘This is
our policy,’” the White House wouldn’t reject it, Jeff Ruch,
executive director of Public Employees for Environmental
Responsibility, based in  Washington , said in an interview. The
process was “inordinately late and lax,” his group, which
obtained documents from the science office under the Freedom of
Information Act, said in a June statement.  The White House guidance “wasn’t strong enough at all,”
Francesca Grifo, scientific-integrity director for the
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Union of Concerned Scientists,
said in an interview.  Among offices that have posted draft plans on their
websites, the Environmental Protection Agency said it is
“essential that political or other officials not suppress or
alter scientific findings.” The EPA and the  National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration  both said they will adopt
“appropriate whistle-blower protections” without providing
details.  NASA, Commerce Department  NASA, the Interior Department, the Commerce Department, the
 National Science Foundation , and the National Institute of
Standards and Technology have also completed drafts or final
versions of their scientific-integrity policies and disclosed
them publicly.  Additional plans, including those for the departments of
Defense, Energy, Transportation and  Homeland Security , hadn’t
been made public as of yesterday. The White House is letting
each agency decide whether to keep procedures confidential,
according to Weiss.  The scientific-integrity plans should say agency heads will
explicitly encourage employees to tell colleagues about abuses,
and that agencies will hold mandatory briefings to tell new
hires their rights, the Union of Concerned Scientists said on
its website.  It also isn’t clear whether the agency submissions are
“principles or rules,” Ruch of the public-employee group said.  Global Warming  During Bush’s presidency,  NASA  physicist  James Hansen  said
his agency prevented him from speaking to the media after he
said the White House ignored climate-change data.  From late 2004 to early 2006, NASA’s media-relations staff
“reduced, marginalized or mis-characterized global warming
research made available to the general public,” according to a
June 2008 report from the agency’s inspector general.  Piltz of Climate Science Watch has said he resigned in 2005
from his post as a senior associate with the U.S. Global Change
Research Program to protest Bush-era interference. He founded
the science-watch organization to monitor government use of
research about the Earth’s warming.  Piltz told a House committee in January 2007 that a Bush
White House official edited climate-change documents to produce
“an enhanced, manufactured sense of fundamental scientific
uncertainty about global warming.” Representative  Tom Davis , a
Republican from  Virginia , said at the hearing that he didn’t see
evidence of altered information.  Nevada  Waste Site  Under Obama, senior managers at the  Nuclear Regulatory
Commission  reporting to Chairman  Gregory Jaczko  contributed to
“political pressures and manipulation of our scientific and
licensing processes” on the proposed waste repository in
Nevada, NRC technical expert Aby Mohseni told a House panel in
June.  Jaczko, an Obama appointee and former science adviser to
Democratic Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of Nevada, who led
opposition to the project, has denied misconduct. The federal
government spent about $15 billion, including $9.5 collected
from industry, on the Yucca Mountain project.  When Obama announced his initiative to protect government
scientists in 2009, he gave Holdren 120 days to make
recommendations.  The task was “more laborious and time-consuming than
expected,” Holdren said in a blog posting on the White House
website in June 2010.  “The whole process is so far behind schedule, we are
concerned it won’t ever conclude,” Ruch of Public Employees for
Environmental Responsibility said. “If there is no second Obama
administration, it may be erased.”  Weiss, the science-office spokesman, said plans will be in
place that “future administrations won’t be able to roll back
without drawing public attention and embarrassment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 Bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  