-- 
Wilbur Ross Sees U.S. Economy Entering ‘Subpression’ With Limited New Jobs

-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s   a n d   D e i r d r e   B o l t o n
-- 
2011-08-30T17:38:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/wilbur-ross-sees-u-s-economy-entering-subpression-with-limited-new-jobs.html
Wilbur Ross , chairman of private-
equity firm WL Ross & Co., said he expects the U.S. to avoid
another recession while entering a “subpression” marked by
little economic growth and few new jobs.  “We don’t think it’s going back into a recession, we think
it’s more of a subpression, where you have a slight economic
growth, but a relatively jobless phenomenon,” Ross said today
in an interview with Deirdre Bolton and  Matt Miller  on Bloomberg
Television’s “Inside Track.” “It’s a new kind of an event for
us to be in. It’s not technically a recession, because you’re
not having declining gross domestic product, but it sure feels
like one to the people who are losing their jobs.”  The 73-year-old billionaire said he is more worried about
European economies than the U.S. as those countries grapple with
bank and sovereign-debt woes. Ireland will be the first European
nation to recover, he reiterated.  WL Ross is among five institutions buying a combined 35
percent stake in the Bank of Ireland Plc, the country’s largest
bank. The private-equity firm, which also invested in Virgin
Money Ltd., a credit-card company in the U.K., is finding more
deals in  Europe , Ross said.  “Two or three years ago we weren’t seeing that much in
Europe, and now you’re seeing stuff from every place in
Europe,” Ross said. Still, “it may be a little bit too early”
to invest in distressed economies such as  Greece , where
sovereign-debt resolutions remain uncertain, he said.  Housing Crisis  Incentives to refinance home mortgages may help the  U.S.
economy , James Lockhart, vice chairman of WL Ross, said in
today’s interview. Lockhart, the former director of the Federal
Housing Finance Agency, said a program similar to the Home
Affordable Refinance Program, which refinanced 800,000 home
loans, could help lower costs on about 30 million mortgages held
by  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , he said.  “If you push that program, because  interest rates  are so
low now, you could get a lot more people refinanced, and home
mortgage payments can come down,” Lockhart said. “That could
help the economy come back.”  Ross, whose firm invested in Dallas-based natural-gas
producer  Exco Resources Inc. (XCO) , said “sensible regulation” is
needed to expand hydraulic fracturing, or fracking. The process,
which involves injecting water, sand and chemicals into shale-
rock formations to extract natural gas, is opposed by some
environmental groups.  “Electricity does not grow in the wall and just need to be
liberated by putting a plug in,” Ross said. “Somebody has to
generate it. It’s silly not to develop fully an abundant natural
resource. We have up 100 years’ supply of natural gas, mostly
shale. It’s much less pollutant than coal, and much cheaper.”  Ross, whose New York-based firm manages about $10 billion
in assets, joined Atlanta-based investment-management group
 Invesco Ltd. (IVZ)  in 2006.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
Deirdre Bolton in New York at 
 dbolton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  