-- 
MMX Rises to Four-Week High on $2.5 Billion Project License

-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 
2011-08-30T20:39:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/mmx-rises-to-four-week-high-on-2-5-billion-project-license-2-.html
MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA, the
 iron-ore  miner controlled by Brazilian billionaire Eike Batista,
rose to a four-week high after obtaining a preliminary
environmental license to expand its Serra Azul mine.  MMX gained 2.4 percent to 7.81 reais in  Sao Paulo  trading
at 4:15 p.m. New York time as the benchmark Bovespa index
advanced 1 percent.  Rio de Janeiro-based MMX accomplished a “very important
step” by securing the license, Raphael Biderman, an equity
analyst at Banco Bradesco BBI SA in Sao Paulo, said in a phone
interview. Once the Serra Azul expansion project is completed in
2015, MMX will annually generate over $2 billion of earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, he said.
MMX currently generates $30 million to $40 million in Ebitda per
quarter, Biderman said.  “This is an ambitious project, and mine expansion had been
blocked because they didn’t yet have this license,” Biderman
said. “What matters for this stock is that they fulfill the
milestones of the development of this project. For MMX, Serra
Azul is a big leap.”  Biderman rates MMX a “buy” with a “fair market price”
of 16 reais.  Processing Plant  The 4 billion-real ($2.52 billion) Serra Azul project in
the southeastern Brazilian state of  Minas Gerais  includes the
construction of a new processing plant, a railway terminal and a
conveyor belt to transport ore from the mine to the terminal.  The iron ore will be exported through MMX’s Sudeste port in
Rio state that the company expects to be ready by the end of
2012. MMX aims to sell to  China , where profits are higher than
in  Brazil ’s domestic market, Biderman said. MMX purchased the
port last year from LLX Logistica SA, a port logistics company
also controlled by Batista.  “Iron ore is lots of volume, very low value added, so
logistics is key,” Biderman said.  MMX plans to seek $1.8 billion in loans for Serra Azul as
soon as late September, Chief Financial Officer Guilherme Escalhao said on Aug. 11. The company is working with advisers
Banco Itau BBA SA and West LB do Brasil SA, and will have the
financing completed before year-end, he said.  MMX shares have become “even more attractive” following
the Bovespa’s decline earlier this month, said Credit Suisse in
a report led by analyst Ivan Fadel. Credit Suisse rates MMX
shares “outperform” with a 12-month target price of 13.20
reais.  “We believe MMX is on track to ramp up its projects and
reap the benefits of a tight iron ore market for the many years
to come,” the Credit Suisse analysts wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  