-- 
Euro Weakens as Trichet Spurs Bets Interest Rate Rises Over; Franc Gains

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-08-30T21:10:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/yen-dollar-franc-maintain-declines-as-equity-gains-reduce-refuge-demand.html
The euro weakened against most major
counterparts on speculation the  European Central Bank  has
finished raising interest rates as the region’s sovereign-debt
crisis curbs economic growth.  The yen rose versus 12 of its 16 most-traded peers as U.S.
consumer confidence slid to the lowest level since April 2009,
adding to demand for safer currencies. Minutes of the last
Federal Reserve meeting showed a few policy makers favored more
aggressive action to stimulate the  U.S. economy . The euro fell
for the first time in three days versus the dollar before the
ECB meets next week.  “It’s going to be very, very difficult for the ECB to hike
rates any time in the next six to nine months,” said  Greg Salvaggio , senior vice president of capital markets in
 Washington  at the currency-trading firm Tempus Consulting Inc.
“There’s still the overhang of what’s going to happen with
European sovereign debt.”  The euro fell 0.5 percent to $1.4441 at 5 p.m. in New York
and dropped 0.6 percent to 110.82 yen. The yen gained 0.1
percent to 76.74 per dollar. The Swiss franc declined 0.5
percent to 82.01 centimes per dollar.  Europe’s shared currency was little changed over the past
week versus nine developed-nation peers tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  New Zealand ’s dollar rose
3 percent in the best performance. Norway’s krone gained 1.2
percent, while the franc dropped the most, 3.6 percent.  ‘More Substantial Move’  Minutes of the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s Aug. 9
meeting released today showed some policy makers, who weren’t
identified, “felt that recent economic developments justified a
more substantial move” beyond the pledge that was adopted to
hold the key interest rate at a record low until mid-2013.  The report indicates Fed officials will debate their
options more fully when they meet next month for a two-day
session originally scheduled to last one day. Officials at the
Aug. 9 meeting discussed a range of tools, including buying more
 government bonds , to bolster the economy, the minutes showed.  U.S. stocks fell earlier as the Conference Board’s index of
 consumer confidence  slumped to 44.5 this month, from a revised
59.2 reading in July, figures from the New York-based private
research group showed. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index tumbled
as much as 1.2 percent before ending the day up 0.2 percent.  “We’re going to see a lot of the risk-off trades come back
into the picture during the rest of the week,” said Robert Sinche, global head of currency strategy at Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “We continue to see
euro-dollar move with equity prices and risk in general.”  Rate-Cut Bets  A Credit Suisse AG index showed traders are betting the ECB
will cut its key rate by 16 basis points, or 0.16 percentage
point, in the next 12 months. A month ago, they wagered it would
raise rates by 22 basis points.  The ECB is scheduled to meet on rates Sept. 8.  “Risks to the medium-term outlook for price developments
are under study in the context of the ECB staff projections that
will be released early September,” ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  told the European Parliament’s economic panel yesterday
in Brussels. The comment contrasted with his policy statement on
Aug. 4, when he said risks to the inflation outlook were “on
the upside.”  The central bank has raised its benchmark interest rate
twice this year, to 1.5 percent, to curb above-target inflation.  “We no longer expect the ECB to hike rates this year,”
said Steven Saywell, head of foreign-exchange strategy for
 Europe  at BNP Paribas SA in  London . “That means the euro is
likely to receive less interest-rate support than previously
anticipated.”  European Confidence  The euro extended losses after the European Commission in
Brussels said an index of executive and consumer sentiment in
the single-currency region fell to 98.3 in August from a revised
103 in July. That’s the lowest since May 2010.  The euro region’s economy expanded in the second quarter by
0.2 percent, the least since 2009. Italian bonds fell for a
seventh day today, the longest streak of declines since
February, after investors bid for 1.27 times the amount on offer
at a sale of 10-year bonds. That compared with a bid-to-cover
ratio of 1.38 at the auction of comparable debt July 28.  New Zealand’s dollar rose to the highest level in almost a
month versus the  U.S. dollar  as data showed home-building
permits in the nation rose in July by the most since April 2008.  “Slightly Better Position’  “The recovery from the earthquake is now beginning to feed
more noticeably into the data,” said  Robert Lynch , head of
currency strategy for HSBC Holdings Plc in  New York . “To the
extent that the earthquake in New Zealand had caused the RBNZ to
cut rates this year and they are now rebounding from that, they
may be in a slightly better position than some of the other
commodity-producing currencies.”  The  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand cut its benchmark interest
rate by 0.5 percent to 2.5 percent in March after an earthquake
in February.  The kiwi, as the currency is known, climbed 0.8 percent to
85.31 U.S. cents and reached 85.59, the highest since Aug. 4.  Sweden’s krona was the worst performer among major
currencies amid speculation that slowing economic growth will
deter the central bank from raising  interest rates . The
government last week cut its 2011 growth forecast to 4.1 percent
from 4.6 percent.  The krona depreciated 0.5 percent versus the euro to 9.1803
and weakened 1 percent to 6.3572 per dollar.  South Africa ’s rand fell against the dollar for the first
time in four days after data showed the nation’s economy grew in
the second quarter at the slowest pace in almost two years, an
annualized 1.3 percent. The rand declined 0.3 percent to 7.0709.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  