-- 
Yields Poised for Longest Drop Since ’91 as Growth Slows: Australia Credit

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-08-31T03:07:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-30/yields-poised-for-longest-drop-since-91-as-growth-slows-australia-credit.html
Yields on  Australia ’s benchmark
bonds are poised for the longest stretch of monthly declines in
20 years as slowdowns in the U.S. and  Europe  spur investors to
seek the relative safety of sovereign debt.  Slumping global growth and the developed world’s highest
borrowing costs lured funds to Australia’s bonds, where the 10-
year government yield is falling for an eighth month. The rate
is down 42 basis points since July 29 to 4.38 percent at 12:37
p.m. in Sydney. Australian debt delivered 9.24 percent returns
this year, second to  New Zealand ’s 9.34 percent among 21
developed nations tracked by Bloomberg.  Australian two-year yields are set for the biggest monthly
drop since 2008 as fragile domestic confidence, Europe’s debt
crisis and a ratings downgrade for the U.S. prompted bets the
 Reserve Bank  will cut its 4.75 percent benchmark interest rate
for the first time in more than two years. Retail sales slumped
and the jobless rate climbed after investors drove up the
Australian dollar to a record in July, curbing profits for
companies from department stores to surf-wear makers.  “In an environment where investors are seeking yield, good
liquidity and relative safe havens, the Australian government
bond market is one of the best places to put your money,” said
 Tony Morriss , head of interest-rates research in Sydney at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. “Australia rates
quite highly for a developed market given we still have a lot of
policy flexibility in terms of the ability to cut rates.”  Australia and  Singapore  are each poised for an eighth
straight month of declining yields for  government securities 
maturing in 10 years, the only such fixed-income markets among
50 tracked by Bloomberg.  ‘Dangerous New Phase’  U.S. Treasuries returned 7.5 percent this year, according
to indexes compiled by the European Federation of Financial
Analyst Societies and Bloomberg. The 10-year benchmark yield
dropped to a record low 1.97 percent on Aug. 18 and was at 2.16
percent today, or 223 basis points less than similar-maturity
Australian rates.  Christine Lagarde , who took over in July as managing
director of the  International Monetary Fund , warned this month
that the world economy is in a “dangerous new phase.”  The U.S. should arrest a slide in  house prices  and European
banks must boost capital to prevent the continent’s debt crisis
from spreading, Lagarde said to international finance officials
and economists in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming .  U.S. gross domestic product climbed in the first half of
this year at the slowest pace since the recovery began in
mid-2009. Euro-area growth slowed to 0.2 percent in the second
quarter from 0.8 percent in the first -- with the German economy
almost grinding to a halt -- as Europe’s debt crisis roiled
financial markets and weighed on confidence.  Retail Slump  Signs have emerged that Australia’s growth prospects are
also softening. Retail sales unexpectedly declined for a second
month in June as  consumer confidence  slumped to the lowest in
two years and the  unemployment rate  rose for the first time
since October, private and government numbers showed this month.  Billabong International Ltd.’s shares dropped 42 percent in
August as the Burleigh Heads, Australia-based maker of surf wear
scrapped its forecast for earnings-per-share growth of more than
10 percent after gains in the Australian dollar slashed the
value of overseas sales.  BlueScope Steel Ltd. (BSL) , Qantas Airways Ltd. and  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC)  all announced plans this month to trim their
workforces as Australian consumers cut spending and a currency
that’s risen about 20 percent from a year ago hurts demand for
exports.  Prime Minister Julia Gillard yesterday warned the nation’s
factory workers face increasing hardship.  ‘Tough Days’  “We are seeing a  mining industry  going ahead by leaps and
bounds but we are also seeing pressures on manufacturing,
pressure on industries like tourism,” Gillard told reporters in
Port Kembla, south of Sydney. “These are tough days for a
number of working people who are contemplating their futures.”  The Australian dollar traded at $1.0677 as of 12:44 p.m. in
Sydney and reached $1.1081 on July 27, the strongest since it
was freely floated in 1983.  Cash-rate futures show investors are betting RBA Governor
 Glenn Stevens  will slash the benchmark rate to 3.96 percent by
December from 4.75 percent currently. All government bond
maturities are yielding less than the cash rate, after falling
to that relative level this month for the first time since 2009.  Seventeen of 23 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
predict the RBA will keep its benchmark unchanged this year,
four forecast at least one cut while two anticipate an increase.  RBA Ammunition  Stevens  signaled  Aug. 26 that the central bank has
sufficient “ammunition” with rates to respond to a sudden
downturn in the global economy, an outcome he said he isn’t
anticipating.  The RBA raised its key borrowing cost by 175 basis points
between October 2009 and November last year to cool inflation
amid the country’s biggest resources boom since the 19th century
gold rush. Investors in inflation-liked debt are estimating
annual Australian consumer-price gains will average 2.56 percent
in the coming five years, compared with the RBA’s target to hold
underlying inflation between 2 and 3 percent.  Australian companies and consumers are better positioned to
withstand market volatility than they were three years ago,
Stevens said last week.  Price swings on Australian 10-year bond futures averaged
16.22 basis points this month, the most since November 2008 and
one of just seven occasions when the figure exceeded 16 basis
points. As of yesterday, the three-year contract had averaged a
23.87 basis-point gap between intraday highs and lows, the most
since October 2008 when the spread averaged 24.52. Those are the
only two occasions when the figure exceeded 18 basis points
since Bloomberg started tracking the data in 1990.  Spreads Widen  Australian corporate bonds returned 0.9 percent this month
as of yesterday in their ninth straight month of gains, while
global company notes dropped 0.3 percent and U.S. corporate
securities gained 0.1 percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes show.  Still, the extra yield investors demand to hold Australian
notes instead of government debt surged 42 basis points to 223,
the widest gap since Dec. 18, 2009, the Merrill Lynch data show.
That’s frozen the market for new bond sales by non-financial
companies in Australia, with the A$150 million ($160 million)
sale of notes on July 8 by a local unit of Volkswagen AG the
last such offering, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Ugly Month’  “It’s been an ugly month, with credit spreads widening and
riskier debt such as bank subordinated paper being hit
particularly hard,” said  Mark Mitchell , head of credit at
Sydney-based Kapstream Capital, which manages A$3.9 billion.
“This could be a good buying opportunity for some of these
assets if you’re able to wear a bit of mark-to-market risk.”  The average cost of credit-default swaps on subordinated
debt of the nation’s four largest banks jumped as high as 280.2
basis points on Aug. 29, the highest since March 2009, from
192.2 on July 29, CMA data show.  A broader gauge of Australian corporate bond risk was set
for its biggest monthly increase in more than two years.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index of default-swap contracts
on 25 of the nation’s biggest companies rose 46.6 basis points
in August to 165.4 yesterday, the fourth month of increases, CMA
data show. It’s on course to rise the most since February 2009,
according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net ;
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  