-- ‘Mission Impossible’ Sequel Leads in North America Film Sales Over Weekend
-- B y   R o b   G o l u m   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-01-02T05:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-01/-ghost-protocol-leads-last-weekend-of-11.html
“Mission: Impossible - Ghost
Protocol” was the top U.S. and Canadian film over the New
Year’s weekend, collecting $31.3 million for  Paramount Pictures 
and closing out a tough year at home for Hollywood.  With no new movies in wide release, the fourth film in the
series featuring  Tom Cruise  coasted to a No. 1 finish in its
third week in cinemas,  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said yesterday
in an e-mailed statement. “ Sherlock Holmes : A Game of Shadows”
came in second with $22.1 million, while “Alvin and the
Chipmunks: Chipwrecked” collected $18.3 million.  “Ghost Protocol” helped propel  Viacom Inc. (VIA/B) ’s Paramount to
first place for the year in U.S. cinemas, according to  Box
Office Mojo , another researcher. The studio’s 2011 total of
$1.86 billion in domestic sales through Dec. 25 topped 2010’s
full-year tally of $1.73 billion. It also marked a bright spot
in a year when overall U.S. attendance shrank and sales fell.  The industry’s revenue woes were tied to “three things:
It’s the movies themselves, it’s the economy and it’s all the
competing technology,” said Paul Dergarabedian, president of
the box-office division of Hollywood.com.  “We’ll find out in 2012” whether studios can offset the
latter two issues with potentially better movies and new
marketing tactics, he said.  Elementary, Watson  In “Ghost Protocol,” Cruise returns as Ethan Hunt, leader
of an elite special-operations squad that takes on the
government’s most difficult assignments. This time, team members
go underground to clear their names after being falsely
implicated in a bombing at the Kremlin. The movie also features
 Jeremy Renner  and  Simon Pegg .  The film opened Dec. 16 for an exclusive, five-day run in
large-screen theaters, including 300  Imax Corp. (IMAX)  locations,
before moving to wide release on Dec. 21. The first three films
generated $1.4 billion in global ticket sales, according to Box
Office Mojo.  In “Sherlock Holmes,” Robert Downey Jr. reprises his role
as the cerebral sleuth created by novelist Arthur Conan Doyle.
Holmes and sidekick Dr. John Watson match wits with arch-
criminal Moriarty, who plots to create an arms race among
European powers. Jude Law plays Watson and Jared Harris portrays
Moriarty in the film from  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros.  “Alvin and the Chipmunks: Chipwrecked,” from  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
Fox studio, has emerged as the top family film after three weeks
of release. The movie is the third in a series of animated
pictures since 2007 that has generated $916 million in worldwide
theatrical sales through Dec. 28, according to Box Office Mojo.  ‘War Horse’  In the latest installment, the singing chipmunks are
marooned on a seemingly deserted tropical island. The picture
has taken in $94.6 million since its Dec. 16 release.  Among other returning films,  Steven Spielberg ’s “War
Horse” collected $16.9 million to finish in fourth place for
the director’s DreamWorks Studios and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , the
distributor.  “War Horse” traces the friendship of a horse named Joey
and a young man called Albert against the backdrop of World War
I. The film follows the horse as he moves through the war with
British cavalry, German soldiers, and a French farmer and his
granddaughter.  Spielberg’s other holiday entry, “The Adventures of
Tintin,” brought in $12 million in its second week of release
to finish in seventh place.  ‘ Dragon Tattoo ’  Finishing fifth was “The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo,”
from  Sony Corp. (6758)  with $16.3 million in its second week. Rooney Mara stars as Lisbeth Salander, a computer hacker employed by a
security firm. She joins with a journalist, played by  Daniel Craig , to investigate a chain of homicides. The film is an
English-language remake of a Swedish adaption of the novel by
Stieg Larsson.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 1.5 percent to
$150.9 million from a year earlier, Hollywood.com said. For the
year, revenue fell 3.4 percent while attendance dropped 4.2
percent. The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for
Dec. 30 and Dec. 31 and estimates for yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Golum in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  