-- Ron Paul’s Surge May Cause Headache for Republicans: Albert Hunt
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2012-01-01T16:01:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-01/al-hunt-paul-s-surge-may-cause-headache-for-gop.html
Mitt Romney , who as governor of
 Massachusetts  turned to John Sasso for help in getting a health-
care bill through the state legislature, may want to solicit the
Democratic operative’s advice again, this time on how to handle
 Ron Paul .  Even before the voting starts in  Iowa  on Jan. 3, Romney is
a prohibitive favorite to win the Republican nomination, a 77.2
percent probability as of Dec. 31, according to  InTrade.com , an
online betting service. Texas Congressman Paul, with a committed
following, is one rival who won’t go away anytime soon. The
Republicans can ill afford to alienate him because he would
damage their prospects on Election Day if he decides to run as a
third-party candidate. At the same time, his out-of-the-
mainstream views make it dangerous to embrace him too closely.  The closest analogy is to the Democrats in the 1980s, when
they had to contend with Jesse Jackson, also a movement
candidate with a devoted core of followers, though out of sync
with major elements in the party. As the top adviser to the 1988
Democratic nominee, former Massachusetts Governor  Michael Dukakis , Sasso remembers how tough it was to deal with Jackson.
He sees parallels to the situation the Republicans face with
Paul today.  “Romney will have to show some respect as there are large
numbers of Republicans who Ron Paul gives voice to,” the
Democratic consultant says. “But if he overreaches he’ll look
weak.”  Strong Showing  Paul will finish in the money, conceivably even win, the
Iowa caucuses. In any case, he is likely to double, if not
triple, the 10 percent of the vote he got four years ago. He has
the infrastructure and cash to battle on for months even if he
has no chance of winning the nomination.  The unlikely elevation of a 76-year-old crank, with a few
strange views and who has been rejected twice before as a
presidential candidate, says a lot about the state of Republican
politics.  Paul was the  Tea Party  -- with calls to slash the role of
government, get Washington out of people’s lives and dismantle
the  Federal Reserve  --- before there was a Tea party movement.
His 2012 message is strikingly similar to the themes he
campaigned on in 2008 and 1988.  “I want to balance the budget; I want to cut spending; I
don’t want to go to war unless we declare the wars; I want to
protect civil liberties,” he said in an interview in Sioux
Center, Iowa, on Dec. 30. “What’s dangerous about that? Sounds
like conservatives should agree with me on that.”  He doesn’t need polls or focus groups or consultants,
though, ironically, he may have the best television commercials
of any candidate so far.  He broadens his appeal, including with some conservatives,
by warning against foreign entanglements, and arguing the U.S.
is broke and should stop meddling in other nations’ affairs.  “These foreign interventions are none of our business,”
says Stacy Hartmann, 34, an organic-vegetable farmer who
attended a rally for Paul in Perry, Iowa, last week.  In a group where constancy is in short supply -- claims by
Romney and  Newt Gingrich  to be steady conservatives aren’t
serious -- Paul stands out. A brochure from Minnesota
Representative  Michele Bachmann , in which she claims to be the
consistent conservative, compares specifics of her record with
those of Republican candidates Romney, Gingrich and  Rick Perry .
She doesn’t mention Paul.  His authenticity, coupled with his antiwar stance and
backing for legalizing drugs, has attracted young supporters.
Measured by rallies and the number of volunteers, the
septuagenarian is the closest thing to a political rock star in
the Republican race.  Disreputable Followers  At the same time, he carries baggage. As a leader of the
right-wing libertarian movement for decades, he has attracted
some disreputable followers, including racists and anti-Semites.  The evidence suggests he isn’t a bigot. Yet his
unwillingness to denounce some vile former associates with
extreme and hatemongering views opens him to legitimate
criticism.  Also, his isolationist views on foreign policy -- he
opposes all U.S. military actions, is passive about the
possibility of  Iran  acquiring nuclear weapons and skeptical
about U.S. relations with  Israel  -- are at odds with the stances
of most Republican political and national security leaders.  Still, Gingrich was playing with fire when he said recently
that Paul’s views are offensive to most “decent” Americans and
that he should be driven from the party. If Paul should run as a
third-party or libertarian candidate this year he could get 5
percent to 10 percent the vote, most of it at the expense of the
Republican candidate.  He likely will go to the party’s nominating convention in
Tampa with the second- or third-greatest number of delegates and
will have a speaking role. Tougher will be the negotiations to
keep him on board without giving him much on substance.  Paul says he’s not considering a third-party run, though in
the Sioux Central interview he said he hasn’t ruled it out and
cast doubt on whether he could support any of the other
candidates given what he considers their tepid fiscal views and
aggressive approach to foreign policy. He has less acrimonious
relations with Romney, who hasn’t attacked the libertarian
congressman as vehemently as some other rivals.  In 1992, after two contentious cycles with Jackson,  Bill Clinton  settled the issue with his “Sister Souljah” moment,
when he criticized the civil rights leader for seeming to
embrace the incendiary rhetoric of a rap singer.  Candidate Clinton then had some leeway to go after Jackson
because of the credibility he’d already earned with black
voters. That’s capital Romney doesn’t enjoy with the Paul flock.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 