-- Manchester City Loses 1-0 at Sunderland in Premier League; Everton Wins
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-01-02T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-01/manchester-city-loses-1-0-at-sunderland-in-premier-league-everton-wins.html
Manchester City  missed a chance to
move clear atop English soccer’s Premier League by allowing an
injury-time goal that gave Sunderland a 1-0 victory yesterday.  Dong-Won Ji’s strike left City, which has failed to win in
three straight away matches, on 45 points, ahead of  Manchester
United  on goal difference. Two days ago, United suffered a 3-2
home defeat to Blackburn.  “I can’t believe it,” City manager  Roberto Mancini  told
Sky Sports. “I’m really disappointed. We had a lot of chances
to score.”  In yesterday’s other game, Everton won 1-0 at West Bromwich
Albion to climb three spots to ninth. Sunderland is now 13th,
one spot behind West Brom, after its victory.  Two days ago, Tottenham drew 1-1 at Swansea, Arsenal beat
Queens Park Rangers 1-0 and Chelsea was beaten 3-1 by  Aston
Villa . Bolton and Wolverhampton Wanderers tied 1-1, Stoke and
Wigan shared a 2-2 draw, while Norwich and Fulham tied 1-1.
Liverpool beat Newcastle 3-1 on Dec. 30.  There are five games scheduled for today. Arsenal is at
Fulham, Chelsea faces Wolves, Villa hosts Swansea, Blackburn
plays Stoke, while QPR is at home against Norwich.  City hosts Liverpool among matches on Jan. 3, while United
is at Newcastle the following day.  Early Chance  Sunderland had a chance to take a third-minute lead at the
Stadium of Light yesterday as Stephane Sessegnon started a
breakaway following a City corner. He passed to Nicklas Bendtner, who had a clear run at goal before being forced wide
and shooting straight at  Joe Hart .  City’s  Adam Johnson  lifted a shot onto the roof of the net
on 13 minutes, while Simon Mignolet blocked a close-range Edin Dzeko shot in the 32nd minute.  Dzeko came close again soon after with a powerful shot that
struck the bar.  Sunderland, already without several players because of
injuries, lost defender Wes Brown midway through the first half.  City introduced striker  Sergio Aguero  in place of defensive
midfielder Nigel de Jong at halftime and started to create more
chances, although Sunderland also had several efforts at goal.  Aguero fired straight at Mignolet on 59 minutes, then at
the other end Sessegnon cut inside the penalty area in the 65th
minute and shot just wide.  The visitors pushed for a winning goal late on, with
fullback  Micah Richards  heading against the bar after Mignolet
saved a shot from David Silva, who had another effort seconds
later.  Then, in the final seconds of the match, Sunderland broke
away and Sessegnon slid the ball through to Ji, who went round
Hart to snatch the victory.  “It was a remarkable performance by the team,” Sunderland
manager Martin O’Neill told Sky Sports. “The spirit is
fantastic.”  At the Hawthorns, substitute Victor Anichebe scored in the
87th minute to lift Everton into the top half of the standings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Cone in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 