-- Aum’s Hirata, Among Three Most-Wanted, Surrenders After 17 Fujitive Years
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i
-- 2012-01-02T02:13:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-01/aum-s-hirata-among-three-most-wanted-surrenders-after-17-years.html
Makoto Hirata, a member of the Aum
Shinrikyo cult that released deadly sarin gas on  Tokyo  subways
in 1995, surrendered to police on the final day of 2011,
Japanese public broadcaster NHK reported.  Hirata, 46, and fellow Aum members Katsuya Takahashi and
Naoko Kikuchi were listed on a police website as Japan’s three
 most-wanted  fugitives. Hirata was wanted in connection with the
murder of a notary, while the other two are alleged to have been
involved in the poison gas attacks.  Hirata turned himself in at the Marunouchi police station
in central Tokyo, NHK said, citing the Metropolitan Police
Department. The Aum Shinrikyo cult gave Hirata 10 million yen
($129,781) in 1995 to help him evade capture, the broadcaster
reported, without saying where it got the information.  Aum Shinrikyo members released sarin gas in several Tokyo
subway trains and stations on March 20, 1995, causing 12 deaths
and more than 3,000 other casualties. The group is alleged to
have killed 27 people in all.  The cult’s activities prompted tightened security and
expanded police powers, including approval for wiretapping of
phones in criminal investigations.  Japan ’s parliament in 1999
passed legislation allowing authorities to limit activities of
Aum and to conduct surveillance and search the premises of
religious cults suspected of mass murder.  Aum Renewed  Aum Shinrikyo renamed itself in an effort to create a new
image under the leadership of Fumihiro Joyu, onetime Aum
spokesman, who completed a three-year prison sentence in 1999.  Shoko Asahara, 56, the founder of the cult, has been on
death row since he was convicted of murder and sentenced to
death in February 2004 following an eight-year trial. The Tokyo
District Court rejected an appeal for a retrial in March 1999,
and his final appeal against the death sentence was denied in
September 2006,  Kyodo News  has reported.  Asahara, whose real name is Chizuo Matsumoto, is partially
blind. He studied acupuncture and traditional Chinese herbal
medicine before beginning to preach a mixture of Buddhist and
Hindu theology mixed with his own apocalyptic ideas. His
doctrine included the concept that murder may be justified and
spiritually elevating for both killer and victim.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 