-- Bank Leumi Chief Executive Maor to Step Down in Second Quarter
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2012-01-01T17:35:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-01/bank-leumi-chief-executive-maor-to-step-down-in-second-quarter.html
Bank Leumi Le-Israel Ltd. (LUMI) ,  Israel ’s
largest lender by assets, said Chief Executive Officer Galia Maor is likely to step down in the second quarter after 16 years
as one of the nation’s most prominent female business leaders.  “Maor has been a fantastic CEO, but this gives the bank
the opportunity to introduce new blood into management,”
Terence Klingman, the head of research at Meitav Brokerage in
Tel Aviv said by phone today.  Possible successors include Senior Vice President Rakefet Russak-Aminoach, who runs Leumi’s business department, and
former  Bank of Israel  supervisor of banks, Rony Hizkiyahu, said
Klingman and Adi Scop, a banking analyst at Israel Brokerage &
Investments Ltd. in Tel Aviv.  In Maor’s tenure,  shares (LUMI)  of Leumi have increased almost
four times to 11.15 shekels today, compared with an increase of
about 2.5 times for that of its closest rival  Bank Hapoalim BM (POLI) ,
which closed at 12.77 shekels today.  Maor, who was born in 1943, already has passed the
mandatory  retirement age  at Tel Aviv-based Leumi, Klingman said.
The retirement age for women in Israel is 62.  “Despite the bank being Israel’s last state owned bank,
Maor created a bank with the correct mix of risk management,
profitability and a strong management team which can steer the
bank even without her,” Klingman said.  The Israeli government’s  stake (LUMI)  in the company now stands at
about 6 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Her resignation comes at a time when Israeli banks are
reporting declines in profits and setting aside money for bad
loans amid a slowing economy.  Leumi shares rose 2.2 percent today. They have  declined (LUMI)  36
percent over the last year, compared with the 31 percent decline
in Hapoalim.  Leumi has a market value of 16.4 billion shekels ($4.3
billion).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  