-- Bundesbank’s Weidmann Says Germany Must Continue Budget Efforts
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-01-01T12:38:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-01/bundesbank-s-weidmann-says-germany-must-continue-budget-efforts.html
The German government can’t let up in
efforts to consolidate its finances as the country contributes
to the stability of the euro area, Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said.  “The government’s consolidation pause in the new year
isn’t convincing given the growth scenario it is based on,”
Weidmann said in an interview with Tagesspiegel. “ Germany  has a
very special responsibility as the stability anchor of the
currency union. It is about quickly reaching a structural budget
balancing.”  Weidmann, who is a council member at the  European Central
Bank , said the last summit held by European Union leaders didn’t
put the region on the path to a common fiscal policy. “It is
certainly misleading to speak of fiscal union with the planned
framework because national budget sovereignty remains,” the
Berlin-based newspaper cited him as saying.  The rules agreed at the summit could “make a helpful
contribution” he said, according to Tagesspiegel, which
distributed his comments in an e-mailed summary today of an
interview to be published in tomorrow’s edition.  European leaders pledged last month to tighten rules to
curb future debts, added 200 billion euros ($259 billion) to
their war chest, sped the start of a 500 billion-euro rescue
fund and diluted a demand that bondholders shoulder losses in
state bailouts.  The ECB must stick to its mandate of fighting inflation,
the Bundesbank president said, the German newspaper reported.  “The necessary pressure on politicians can only be
maintained if the ECB limits itself to carrying out its
compulsory task and doesn’t just step into the breach for fiscal
policy,” he said. “We have to make it clear where our legal,
but also our real limits, are.”  While financial markets are still experiencing
“considerable uncertainties,” the German economy will improve
over the course of 2012 and the ECB is supplying sufficient
liquidity to banks, according to Weidmann.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  