-- Heisman Trophy Winner Griffin III to Enter NFL Draft, His Dad Tells ESPN
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-01-02T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-01/heisman-trophy-winner-robert-griffin-iii-to-enter-nfl-draft-espn-reports.html
Baylor University junior quarterback
Robert Griffin III will enter this year’s  National Football
League  draft, the Heisman Trophy winner’s father told  ESPN .  Griffin will meet with five agents this weekend about
representation and then with Baylor coaches next week to
complete plans to declare for the draft before the Jan. 15
underclassman deadline, Robert Griffin II told ESPN.com.  Although he has one year of eligibility remaining, the
younger Griffin received his bachelor’s degree in political
science in December 2010 and has been working toward a master’s
degree at Baylor.  “He actually has made a strong case to return because he’s
only 12 hours short of his masters, but he believes he can still
accomplish that goal,” Griffin’s father told ESPN.com. “He’s
still waiting for his official evaluation from the league, but
the decision is not a hard decision.”  Baylor athletic department officials didn’t return messages
seeking comment.  Griffin is the No. 2 quarterback available behind Stanford
University’s Andrew Luck and is rated the ninth-best college
prospect overall, according to  ESPN’s Scouts Inc.   The  Indianapolis Colts  have the No. 1 pick in this year’s
draft, followed by the  St. Louis Rams  and  Minnesota Vikings .  Griffin, 21, completed 72 percent of his passes in leading
Baylor to a 10-3 record, its best season in 25 years. He passed
for 4,293 yards, 37 touchdowns and six interceptions, while
rushing for 699 yards and 10 scores.  Griffin is Baylor’s first Heisman Trophy winner, the award
given annually to college football’s best player.  A former All-American hurdler, the 6-foot-2, 220-pound
Griffin capped his season on Dec. 29 by leading Baylor to a 67-
56 win over  Washington  in the Alamo Bowl. Griffin helped the
Bears roll up 777 yards of offense in winning their first
postseason bowl game since 1992.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 