-- Euro Chiefs Seek to Buy Time for Rescue as $203 Billion Debt Payments Loom
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-01-02T15:18:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-01/euro-leaders-greet-new-year-with-renewed-efforts-to-rein-in-maturing-debt.html
European leaders return to work this
week seeking to buy time for the Spanish and Italian governments
to wrest control over their debt and rescue the single currency
from fragmentation in its 10th anniversary year.  Some 157 billion euros ($203 billion) in debt will mature
in the 17-member euro area in the first three months of 2012,
according to UBS AG. By the end of that period, leaders have
pledged to draft a stricter rulebook for controlling  government
spending . German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy will meet in Berlin Jan. 9 to work out details.  “The road to overcoming this won’t be without setbacks,
but at the end of this path Europe will emerge stronger from the
crisis than before,” Merkel said in a New Year’s speech
broadcast Dec. 31. Merkel, whose first official public
appointment is on Jan. 5, reiterated that her government will do
“everything” to bring the euro out of the slump.  Ten years after euro bank notes replaced national
currencies on Jan. 1, 2002, the euro has for the first time
recorded two consecutive annual losses against the  U.S. dollar 
while plunging to a record low against the yen. That raises the
pressure on euro leaders as they struggle to hold the monetary
union together in the face of credit downgrades, European Union
splits and a looming recession that might compound rising debt.  Stocks Rise  European shares rose on the first trading day of 2012, with
the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  up 0.8 percent as of 3:33 p.m. in
Berlin. The gauge slumped 11 percent last year.  The euro slid 0.2 percent to $1.2934 after earlier dropping
as much as 0.4 percent. The single currency lost 3 percent
against the dollar last year, ending at $1.2961, a decline of 13
percent from its 2011 high of $1.4830 on May 2. It lost 3.2
percent in the last quarter.  The latest crack in  Europe ’s crisis-fighting plans appeared
on Dec. 30, when  Spain ’s new government said 2011’s budget
deficit would reach 8 percent of output, 2 percent more than the
previous government had projected and more than the 6.9 percent
expected by economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  responded by unveiling a new package of spending
cuts and tax increases.  Still, the key to the euro’s survival may lie with Italy,
the group’s third-largest economy and the second most-indebted
after Greece. The government in  Rome  must repay 53 billion euros
in debt in the first quarter, about a third of the euro area’s
total amount for the period, after Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
passed an emergency budget package aimed at curtailing borrowing
costs.  Italian Yields  Italy ’s 10-year yield ended 2011 near the 7 percent mark
that led Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  to seek bailouts. Spain’s
equivalent yield finished the year just above 5 percent. Italian
10-year yields dropped 13 basis points to 6.97 percent today,
while Spanish yields were little changed at 5.10 percent.  “If the Italian yields start to rise, you could quickly
turn a manageable situation into an insolvent one,”  Michael Spence , a professor of economics at  New York University  and a
Nobel laureate, said on Bloomberg Television Dec. 28. “Italy
needs time and Europe needs to help buy them some of the time.”  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  echoed that
strategy, telling the Bild newspaper yesterday that European
rescue funds can only “buy time” before indebted states take
“the necessary measures to win back confidence.”  French Possibilities  Sarkozy said that the French government will turn from
budget fighting to economic growth and unemployment in 2012,
which will be “the year of all risks and of all
possibilities,” he said Dec. 31 in his fifth New Year’s
address, the last before he faces a re-election contest in May.
Sarkozy will meet with Italy’s Monti in Paris on Jan. 6.  In his New Year’s message to Greek citizens, Prime Minister
 Lucas Papademos  said his nation will confront a “difficult”
2012 and said that the “next three months will be particularly
crucial.”  Papademos, appointed on Nov. 11 as head of a government
backed by three of the five parliamentary parties, is trying to
secure loans under a 130 billion-euro bailout for  Greece  agreed
to in October by EU leaders before elections are held. Measures
include negotiating a debt swap with private creditors that will
cut 100 billion euros off Greece’s burden.  As Europe’s leaders tinker at a new budget framework and
craft the so-called firewall that will prop up ailing states,
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said that the  European
Central Bank  won’t “step into the breach for fiscal policy.”  ECB Limits  “We have to make it clear where our legal, but also our
real limits, are,” Weidmann, who is a council member of the
Frankfurt-based ECB, told Tagesspiegel newspaper yesterday.  Fiscal and monetary efforts could be hampered by a
shrinking economy in the euro area, which would crimp tax
revenues and fuel unemployment. The economy of the 17-nation
area will shrink by about 0.7 percent this year, said  Howard Archer , an economist at IHS Global Insight in  London .  “We expect eurozone recession to occur in late-2011 and
the first half of 2012 in the face of the ongoing eurozone
sovereign debt crisis,” Archer wrote in a Dec. 30 note to
clients. “It is vital that eurozone policy makers get a real
grip on matters quickly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  