-- Exxon Gets ’Disappointing’ $750 Million After Venezuela Seizure
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s   a n d   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 2012-01-01T03:05:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-01/exxon-gets-disappointing-750-million-after-venezuela-assets-seizure.html
Petroleos de Venezuela SA (PDVSA)  must pay
about $750 million to  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , a 10th of what the U.S.
company is seeking, for assets nationalized by Venezuelan
President  Hugo Chavez  in 2007, according to two people with
knowledge of the case.  The  International Chamber of Commerce  in  New York , an
arbitration court, gave a “favorable” ruling to  Venezuela ’s
state oil company, a spokesman for PDVSA, as the Caracas-based
company is known, said yesterday.  The ICC awarded a total of $907.6 million to  Exxon Mobil ,
company spokesman Patrick McGinn said today. The judgment was
reduced to around $750 million after a counter claim in favor of
PDVSA, the people, who declined to be identified because they’re
not authorized to speak about the case publicly, said, adding
that the decision was handed down in late December.  “Even at $750 million, it’s still relatively significant
for PDVSA,”  Gianna Bern , president of Chicago-based risk
management adviser Brookshire Advisory and Research, said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “It’s not an
inconsequential amount of money.”  The $750 million award is equivalent to 32 percent of
PDSVA’s 2010 net income, according to  data (PDVSA)  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Exxon Mobil was the first international oil company to
abandon Venezuela after Chavez’s government expropriated the
nation’s oil industry. The World Bank’s International Centre for
Settlement of Investment Disputes, or ICSID, is also due to rule
on the claim in a suit filed against the Venezuelan government.  Other Arbitration Cases  Chavez, who has nationalized assets in the energy, metals,
cement and telecommunications industries, faces about  20
arbitration cases  at the ICSID, according to the Washington-
based center’s website. Venezuelan Oil Minister  Rafael Ramirez 
said in September that the country was willing to pay Exxon $1
billion after Carlos Escarra, the country’s prosecutor general,
told reporters that the two companies were negotiating a
settlement of about $6 billion.  “The ICC decision confirms that PDVSA does have a
contractual liability to Exxon Mobil,” McGinn said yesterday in
an e-mailed response to questions. “The dispute is not over
Venezuela’s power to expropriate assets, but rather the failure
of PDVSA to comply with contractual provisions to compensate
Exxon Mobil.”  The PDVSA spokesman, who declined to be identified because
of company policy, said Ramirez wasn’t immediately available to
comment on the ruling.  Joint Ventures  Chavez forced foreign oil producers into joint ventures as
minority partners in 2007 and is in international arbitration
with the U.S.’s Exxon Mobil and  ConocoPhillips (COP) , which rejected
revised terms. The Cerro Negro venture held by Exxon refined
tar-like crude into synthetic oil from wells in the Orinoco
heavy-crude belt.  Exxon lost 425 million barrels of proved reserves in 2007
when Chavez ordered PDVSA to seize control of four heavy-oil
ventures operated by foreign companies, including Exxon’s Cerro
Negro project. The field had a 48 percent profit-to-sales ratio,
quadruple the company’s global average.  Exxon based its arbitration claims on a 1997 agreement
between Mobil Corp. and PDVSA to explore for extra-heavy crude
in the Orinoco oil belt. Exxon, which later acquired Mobil,
claimed PDVSA agreed to indemnify Mobil if it later expropriated
Mobil’s interests.  ConocoPhillips said earlier this month that the ICSID held
a hearing in the summer of 2010 and that the company is waiting
for a decision on legal and factual issues.  U.K. Court  Exxon initially won an order in the U.K. blocking PDVSA
from selling $12 billion worth of assets anywhere in the world.
The order was overturned by a U.K. court in March 2009.  PDVSA set aside about $1 billion to $1.5 billion in
anticipation of the judgment, Credit Suisse said in June. Exxon,
the world’s largest  oil company  by market value, cut the amount
it was seeking from PDVSA in October 2010 to $7 billion from $12
billion.  “Certainly, this type of award falls far short of
expectations, or at least what they were willing to publicly
settle at, and these types of rulings could influence the
decision of companies to escalate these kinds of arbitration
proceedings,” Brookshire Advisory’s Bern said from  Chicago .
“It appears to be fairly disappointing for Exxon Mobil.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  