-- Virginia’s Cuccinelli Opposes Changes to March Primary Rules
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s   a n d   M i k e   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-01-02T00:22:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-01/four-republicans-to-join-rick-perry-s-virginia-ballot-rule-legal-challenge.html
Virginia Attorney General  Ken Cuccinelli  opposes changing election rules to allow all
Republican candidates on the ballot for the state’s March
presidential primary, according to an e-mailed statement.  His announcement follows a letter yesterday by Republican
presidential candidates  Michele Bachmann ,  Newt Gingrich ,  Jon Huntsman  and  Rick Santorum  saying they will join  Texas  Governor
Rick Perry in his lawsuit seeking to be placed on the March 6
primary ballot.  Only former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney and U.S.
Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas met Virginia’s petition
requirements to earn a place on the ballot. The state’s
Republican Party said Dec. 24 that Perry and Gingrich, the
former U.S. House speaker, failed to get proper signatures from
10,000 registered voters as required.  In a joint letter to  Virginia ’s Board of Elections and
Republican Party, lawyers for Bachmann, Gingrich, Huntsman and
Santorum said they will file a motion to intervene in Perry’s
legal challenge in Richmond federal court. On Dec. 29, a U.S.
judge declined to stop the printing of ballots before the next
hearing in Perry’s case, scheduled for Jan. 13. He didn’t rule
on the merits of Perry’s challenge.  “This should not be a gauntlet to figure out how you can
make it virtually impossible to run for president,” Gingrich
said yesterday at a campaign stop in Atlantic,  Iowa . “This
ought to be a system that enables the voters to decide who they
would like to have run for president.”  Election Board  The four Republicans urged the election board either to
take no action until Jan. 13 or to add them to the ballot,
ending the legal challenge “and avoiding unnecessary costs and
expenses to the state and the parties.”  The letter was signed by J. Christian Adams, counsel to
Bachmann; Stefan C. Passantino, counsel to Gingrich; Craig Engle,
counsel to Huntsman; and Cleta Mitchell, counsel to Santorum.
Cuccinelli said yesterday he would seek to intervene in the
Perry lawsuit and propose legislation that would allow most
Republican presidential candidates to be named on his state’s
primary ballot. Today, he announced he had changed his mind.  Different Scenarios  “Virginia needs to change its ballot access requirements
for our statewide elections. However, after working through
different scenarios with Republican and Democratic leaders to
attempt to make changes in time for the 2012 Presidential
election, my concern grows that we cannot find a way to make
such changes fair to the Romney and Paul campaigns that
qualified even with Virginia’s burdensome system,” Cuccinelli
said in the statement. “A further critical factor that I must
consider is that changing the rules midstream is inconsistent
with respecting and preserving the rule of law.”  In a separate state court lawsuit, a Virginia lawyer last
month sued the Board of Elections and  Republican Party  to get
Gingrich’s name on the ballot. In Iowa yesterday, Gingrich said
he hopes the state legislature finds a solution to put everyone
on the ballot.  “The challenge in Virginia isn’t about the candidates,
it’s about the voters,” he said.  The Perry case is Perry v. Judd, 11-00856, U.S. District
Court for the Eastern District of Virginia (Richmond); The
Gingrich case is Moseley v. Virginia State Board of Elections,
Circuit Court of Richmond County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Atlantic, Iowa, at   thiggins21@bloomberg.net  and;
Mike Millard at   mmillard2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  and;
Greg Chang at   gchang1@bloomberg.net . 