-- Time Warner Cable’s Knicks Fans Lose MSG Network Programs in Fee Dispute
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-01-01T05:35:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-01/time-warner-cable-s-knicks-fans-lose-msg-network-programs-in-fee-dispute.html
Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  subscribers
lost access to the network carrying the  New York  Knicks and
Rangers games following the expiration of an agreement with
owner  Madison Square Garden Co. (MSG)   “We had a deal within reach earlier this year,” Mike
Angus, a Time Warner Cable senior vice president, said today in
an e-mailed statement. “Despite agreeing to the asked for 6.5%
price increase on rates that MSG themselves deemed as fair
market rates just last year, MSG reneged on the deal and
instead, demanded a whopping 53% increase and refused to
negotiate further.”  The haggling over prices underscored the tension in the
pay-TV industry over the cost of sports shows. MSG Media
President  Mike Bair  called Time Warner Cable’s claims
“categorically untrue,” saying he didn’t know where the
company was “getting its math from.”  MSG has urged Time Warner Cable customers to switch to
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ’s FiOS or DirecTV to get access to
MSG. Time Warner Cable had 2.8 million MSG subscribers,
primarily in New York.  MSG Co. is controlled by New York’s Dolan family, which
also holds majority voting stakes in AMC Networks Inc., another
cable programmer, and  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  MSG Co. also
owns the Madison Square Garden arena and Radio City  Music Hall .  Cable Rates  Cable and satellite-TV operators pay more than $4.50 a
month per subscriber for MSG and MSG Plus, according to
researcher SNL Kagan. Walt Disney Co.’s ESPN, the most expensive
cable network, charged an average of $4.69 a month in 2011 and
will fetch $5.06 in 2012, Kagan said.  “We want you to know that while MSG is preventing you from
enjoying their channels, other channels still carry your
favorite teams,” Time Warner Cable told subscribers in a
message on the channel. “Nearly 40 percent of the Knicks games
and almost 30 percent of the Rangers games will still be
available on your time warner cable lineup.”  MSG’s rates have increased more than 70 percent over the
past five years, according to Kagan. Time Warner Cable was
willing to pay 6 percent more in 2012, according to Melinda Witmer, an executive vice president, who said MSG sought
“dollars more” than any other sports network.  MSG’s current deal with Time Warner Cable was signed in
2005, according to Cablevision regulatory filings at the time.
 DirecTV (DTV)  and FiOS have negotiated new agreements and agreed to
higher prices, Bair said.  Time Warner Cable added 0.8 percent to $63.57 at the close
in New York on Dec. 30 and lost 3.7 percent in 2011. MSG Co.
rose 0.3 percent to $28.64 and was up 11 percent for the year.  Customers  Time Warner Cable was betting few customers would cancel if
they lost Knicks and regional NHL games. The company said it
would provide replacement programming, without being more
specific.  Many Manhattan residents are unable to get satellite TV
because tall buildings obstruct signals, and not all buildings
are wired for FiOS or RCN Corp., a smaller cable provider that
serves certain areas of  New York City , according to David Joyce,
an analyst at New York-based Miller Tabak & Co.  Counting other pay-TV systems, MSG network and MSG Plus
have about 8 million subscribers, primarily in New York,  New
Jersey  and  Connecticut , according to the company’s 2010 10-K
regulatory filing. MSG Co. also owns Fuse, which was a factor in
the negotiations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  