-- Nigeria to End Gasoline Subsidy Accounting for 25% of Government Spending
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2012-01-01T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-01/nigeria-to-remove-subsidy-on-gasoline-pricing-agency-says-1-.html
Nigeria,  Africa ’s top oil producer,
said it’s scrapping gasoline subsidies that account for about a
quarter of  government spending  to free up funds for building
infrastructure such as  power plants  and roads.  President Goodluck Jonathan’s administration says ending
the fuel allowance will help save 1.2 trillion naira ($7.5
billion) this year, or about 25 percent of the government’s 4.8
trillion naira spending plan. The money will be channeled
instead toward capital projects.  “The downstream sub-sector of the  petroleum industry  is
hereby deregulated,” Reginald Stanley, executive secretary of
the Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency, said in an e-
mailed statement in Abuja yesterday. “Service providers are now
to procure products and sell same in accordance with the
indicative benchmark price” published fortnightly by the PPPRA.  “Removing the fuel subsidy will address significant
inefficiencies in the economy and ultimately create the right
environment for private-sector participation in the refining
business,”  Samir Gadio , a London-based emerging-market
strategist at Standard Group Ltd., said by e-mail yesterday.
“The fuel subsidy has translated into a sizable fiscal cost for
the government which is not sustainable.”  A liter of unleaded petrol in Abuja currently costs about
65 naira (40 U.S. cents). That price may more than double to 140
naira with the removal of the subsidy, the PPPRA has estimated.  Strikes Planned  The decision, which central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi
said will boost inflation in the “short term,” is unpopular
among Nigerians and has been extensively debated in parliament.  “We alert the populace to begin immediate mobilization
towards strikes, street demonstrations and mass protests,”  the
leaders of  Nigeria ’s two main labor federations, Owei Lakemfa of
the Nigerian Labour Congress and John Kolawole of the Trade
Union Congress, said in a joint e-mailed statement. Dates will
be announced in the next days, they said.  Nigeria’s House of Representatives late in 2011 rejected
the removal of fuel subsidies as being “premature,” John Enoh,
chairman of the House budget committee, said Dec. 2.  Still, the decision likely will be approved later in
January by the Senate, which has the power to override the
House’s decision, and thus be formally authorized, analysts have
said. Moreover, the government hasn’t included any funds for the
fuel subsidy in its 2012 budget.  Refining Investment  Nigeria has paid 3.65 trillion naira in domestic fuel
subsidies since 2006, with more than a third spent in 2011,
according to the PPPRA. The government spent 1.35 trillion naira
in the first nine months of last year, PPPRA chief Stanley told
a parliamentary hearing on Dec. 2.  The government predicts its  budget deficit  will narrow to
2.8 percent of gross domestic product in 2012 from an estimated
3.0 percent in 2011.  The removal of the subsidy will set the basis for
investment into the downstream sector of the petroleum industry,
 Bismarck Rewane , chief executive officer of Financial
Derivatives Co. Ltd., a  fund manager , said yesterday by phone
from Lagos, the country’s commercial capital.  Oil retailers including  Oando Plc (OANDO) , Nigeria’s largest
retailer of refined products which plans to invest in a new
refinery project, and  Conoil Plc (CONOIL)  “will have to be more
efficient to be competitive,” Rewane said.  Nigeria, Africa’s most populous nation with more than 160
million people, imports 70 percent of its fuel products due to a
lack of adequate refining capacity, Petroleum Minister Diezani Alison-Madueke said on Nov. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  