-- South Korea’s Lee Says ‘New Era’ Is Possible After North Calls Him Traitor
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-01-02T06:17:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-01/north-korea-says-ending-shortages-of-food-power-are-biggest-goals-in-2012.html
South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak 
said a new era in inter-Korean relations is possible if the
North is sincere about shedding its nuclear program, after
Pyongyang accused him of “madcap saber-rattling.”  “If North Korea comes forward with a sincere attitude, it
will be possible for us to work together to open a new era of
the Korean peninsula,” Lee said today in his New Year speech,
two weeks after the death of Kim Jong Il was announced. “But as
long as there continues to be a possibility of North Korean
provocation, we will maintain a watertight defense posture. If
any aggression occurs, we will strongly respond.”  The rhetoric from the North Korean regime under new leader
Kim Jong Un has echoed that of his father, Kim Jong Il, with
threats of revenge against Lee and his “group of traitors.”
Lee and his  Grand National Party , who face parliamentary and
presidential elections this year, have dropped in opinion polls
amid persistently high inflation and opposition criticism over
their decision to roll back the “Sunshine Policy” of
engagement with the North.  “Kim Jong Un is expected to worsen inter-Korean relations
as a distraction that will help his internal power building,”
said Yoon Deok Min, a professor of North Korean studies at South
Korea’s state-run Institute of  Foreign Affairs  and National
Security. “Lee is trying to prevent another provocation by
reassuring the North with a repeat of his conditional
willingness to talk.”  Nuclear Tests  South Korea is open to resuming six-party talks on North
Korean denuclearization, involving the U.S.,  China ,  Japan  and
 Russia , as soon as the North halts its nuclear activities, Lee
said. He said his government wouldn’t tolerate provocations by
 North Korea , which has twice detonated a nuclear device and in
November 2010 fired artillery at an island in the  Yellow Sea ,
killing four people in the first shelling of South Korean soil
since the 1950-53 Korean war.  “I have expectations that this year will set a milestone
for resolving the North Korean nuclear issue,” Lee said. “We
are ready to provide the necessary support to ease North Korea’s
security concerns and resuscitate its economy based on what will
be agreed upon at the six-party talks.”  The last talks were in December 2008 and  United Nations 
inspectors were expelled from North Korea in 2009. The U.S. said
last month it was in discussions with North Korea to send it
food aid.  Sunshine Policy Reversed  Lee reversed the Sunshine Policy implemented by his
predecessor, Kim Dae Jung, when he entered office in 2008,
saying that  Kim Jong Il ’s provocative policies shouldn’t be
rewarded. During his single five-year term, which ends in
February 2013, North Korea detonated a second nuclear device and
in 2010 unveiled an advanced uranium enrichment program.  The opposition has blamed Lee for escalated tensions,
saying his tough stance provoked hostilities like the island
shelling and an attack in March 2010 in which 46 South Korean
sailors were killed when the Cheonan warship sank. An
international panel blamed the North for the sinking of the
ship. North Korea denied the allegations.  Lee’s approval rating has plummeted from 76 percent when
his term began in February 2008 to 26.9 percent, according to a
poll of 3,750 South Koreans conducted Dec. 19-23 by Seoul-based
Real Meter. The margin of error was plus or minus 1.6 percentage
points.  Lee said he will focus in the coming year on reducing
inflation and bringing down unemployment by investing over 10
trillion won ($8.7 billion) in creating jobs. The government’s
goal is to get inflation down to the low 3-percent range, he
said.  Inflation Focus  “While growth is important, we will put emphasis on
lowering inflation,” Lee said.  Consumer prices rose 4.2 percent last month from a year
earlier, matching November gains and exceeding the central
bank’s target of 2 percent to 4 percent through 2012, Statistics
 Korea  said Dec. 30. Rising inflation limits the scope for an
interest-rate cut this month even as threats to growth mount.  Europe ’s debt crisis is cutting export demand and North
Korea’s leadership handover threatens confidence by adding to
the risk of instability on the Korean peninsula. The  Bank of
Korea  forecasts that the country’s economic growth will slow to
3.7 percent in 2012 from 3.8 percent in 2011.  The benchmark Kospi stock index declined 0.4 percent to
1818.37 at 1:29 p.m., erasing an earlier gain of 0.7 percent.
The won weakened 0.3 percent to 1155.85 per dollar. The Kospi
slid 3.4 percent on Dec. 19 when Kim Jong Il’s death was
announced, then rallied 4 percent the next two trading days.  Food And Power  In its annual New Year editorial, North Korea yesterday
called on its people to defend Kim Jong Un and said the
country’s leaders won’t change the course set by Kim Jong Il and
his father  Kim Il Sung . The 5,800-word editorial, carried by the
state-run Korea  Central News Agency , also said solving the
country’s food and power shortages were urgent goals in 2012.  “The food problem is a burning issue in building a
thriving country,” the statement said. Power shortages should
be solved “at all costs,” it said.  The United Nations says more than a third of North Korean
children suffer from  malnutrition  and the number is growing
after the North’s main food aid donors terminated their programs
in the past two years to pressure the North to relinquish its
nuclear weapons program.  “Food shortages were mentioned with the intent to attract
aid from the outside world,” said Kim Yong Hyun, a professor of
North Korean studies at  Dongguk University  in  Seoul . “For now,
the new regime will take cues from how Kim Jong Il ruled.”  No Change  Unlike last year’s message, the editorial didn’t mention
inter-Korean dialogue or cooperation,  South Korea ’s Unification
Ministry said in an analysis posted on its website yesterday.
For the first time in four years, the editorial called for the
ouster of U.S. forces in South Korea, the ministry’s
intelligence analysis bureau said.  The North warned last week that there will be no change in
inter-Korean relations as long as Lee is president of South
Korea, one of its main food donors.  The North Korean New Year statement said new coal fields
should be developed and more hydropower stations built to
overcome the country’s power shortages. It called for officials
to “radically increase” grain yields.  North Korea’s economy is one-fortieth the size of South
Korea’s and has shrunk in four of the five years through 2010,
according to estimates by South Korea’s central bank. Its 2010
gross domestic product was 30 trillion won ($26.5 billion),
according to the bank’s estimates. Pyongyang doesn’t release GDP
data.  Handouts  The country of 24 million people has relied on outside
handouts since the mid-1990s, when famine killed an estimated 2
million people. Almost 3 million North Koreans will need food
assistance in 2012, UN agencies said in November.  South Korean Unification Minister Yu Woo Ik said he was
“disappointed” by the new leadership’s stance toward the
South.  “Our government will not set aside its hopes for progress
in inter-Korean relations so easily,” he said in an address to
ministry employees that was e-mailed to reporters. “We will
continue operating a flexible policy and take time in observing
North Korea’s behavior.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  