-- U.S. Employment Probably Picked Up in Dec.
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-01-01T05:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-01/payroll-gains-in-u-s-probably-accelerated-helping-lift-consumer-spending.html
Hiring probably accelerated in
December for a second month, a sign an improving U.S. labor
market will bolster  consumer spending  in early 2012, economists
said before a report this week.  Payrolls climbed by 150,000 workers after rising 120,000 in
November, according to the median forecast of 62 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey before Labor Department data on Jan. 6.
The unemployment rate rose last month after reaching the lowest
level in more than two years, the report may also show.  More jobs are needed to sustain the rebound in confidence
that has propelled household purchases, which account for about
70 percent of the world’s largest economy. At the same time, the
financial crisis in  Europe  and political gridlock in the U.S.
may be inhibiting even bigger employment gains, indicating a
prolonged drop in joblessness will take time to emerge.  “We continue to make steady progress,” said  Jonathan Basile , an economist at Credit Suisse in  New York . “There’s
still a very high level of unemployment despite the improvement
that we’re seeing. There’s still a long way to go.”  The  jobless rate (USURTOT)  increased to 8.7 percent in December from
8.6 percent the prior month, the lowest since March 2009,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed.  Employers added 1.45 million workers last year through
November, bringing job losses since the recession started in
December 2007 to 6.28 million, according to Labor Department
figures. The projected gain in payrolls would bring the average
for July through December to 135,000, compared with 131,000 in
the first six months of the year.  Private Payrolls  The employment report may also show private employment,
which excludes government jobs, climbed 170,000 after a 140,000
gain in November.  “Sales are robust, merchandise margins are strong,
operating margins are growing,” Alexander Smith, chief
executive officer of  Fort Worth , Texas-based  Pier 1 Imports
Inc. (PIR) , said on a Dec. 15 conference call with analysts. “There’s
going to be a little more hiring in the first part of the year
without a doubt.”  Shares rose in the last quarter of 2011 as the economy
showed signs of weathering the European debt crisis. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 11 percent over the past
three months. For all of last year, the gauge was little
changed.  Bigger job gains than those generated in 2011 may be needed
to reduce unemployment. The jobless rate has exceeded 8.5
percent since March 2009, the longest stretch of such levels
since monthly records began in 1948.  Jobless Rate ‘Elevated’  That’s one reason policy makers remain concerned. “While
indicators point to some improvement in overall labor market
conditions, the  unemployment rate  remains elevated,” Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and other members of the
 Federal Open Market Committee  said in a statement at the
conclusion of a meeting last month in Washington.  Other reports this week may show manufacturing and
construction picked up, economists said.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  factory index (NAPMPMI)  climbed
to a six-month high of 53.4 in December, economists surveyed by
Bloomberg projected ahead of a Jan. 3 report. Readings above 50
indicate expansion.  A Jan. 5 report from the same group will show  service
industries (NAPMNMI)  expanded in December at the fastest pace in three
months. The ISM’s non-manufacturing index climbed to 53 from 52
in November, according to the survey median.  Factory Orders  American manufacturers also saw orders increase nearing the
end of 2011.  Bookings (TMNOCHNG)  for factory goods climbed 2 percent in
November, according to economists surveyed before a Jan. 4
report from the Commerce Department.  Spending on  construction projects (CNSTTMOM)  advanced 0.4 percent in
November amid signs of improvement in the housing market,
economists said ahead of Jan. 3 figures from the Commerce
Department. That would be the fourth straight monthly gain,
matching the longest streak since late 2010.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  