-- Penn State May Turn to Patriots Assistant O’Brien as Paterno’s Successor
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-01-02T05:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-01/penn-state-interested-in-hiring-patriots-assistant-o-brien-espn-reports.html
Penn State University ’s search
committee wants to hire  New England  Patriots offensive
coordinator Bill O’Brien as the successor to football coach  Joe Paterno ,  ESPN reported .  The two sides are expected to meet this week to try to work
out a deal, ESPN said yesterday, citing unidentified people
close to the situation. The Patriots are off during the first
week of the National Football League playoffs after earning the
No. 1 seed in the American Football Conference.  “I don’t know what’s going to happen,” Patriots
quarterback  Tom Brady  told reporters when asked about O’Brien’s
status after yesterday’s regular-season finale against Buffalo.
“I hope he’s here for a long time and I told him that too.”  Patriots coach  Bill Belichick  and  Penn State  spokesman Jeff Nelson declined to comment yesterday.  Penn State interim coach Tom Bradley said at a news
conference yesterday that school officials haven’t told him
anything about the coaching search. Bradley has met with the
school’s search committee about taking the full-time job.  “I was able to talk to them about the way I would do
things. That’s all that I can ask,” said Bradley, whose team
plays the University of Houston today in the TicketCity Bowl.
“As far as rumors, I don’t pay much attention to them.”  Paterno Fired  Penn State has been searching for a replacement for the 85-
year-old Paterno, who was fired in November following his
handling of child sex-abuse allegations against former Nittany
Lions assistant Jerry Sandusky.  Tennessee Titans coach Mike Munchak, a former offensive
lineman at Penn State, was the top choice of the search
committee, the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette said on Dec. 28. Munchak
told reporters the next day he has no interest in leaving the
NFL, though ESPN said on Dec. 31 that he was reconsidering. The
Titans were eliminated from postseason contention yesterday.  Green Bay Packers quarterbacks coach Tom Clements, a former
All-American at the  University of Notre Dame , was also on the
committee’s list of candidates, according to the Post-Gazette.  O’Brien, 42, is in the final year of his contract with the
Patriots. He took over as New England’s  offensive coordinator 
this season after two seasons as quarterbacks coach and one year
as wide receivers coach. Before entering the NFL, O’Brien was a
college assistant at Georgia Tech,  Maryland  and Duke.  O’Brien was a linebacker and defensive end at  Brown
University  from 1990-92.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  