-- Pro-Saleh Troops Fire Shells on Yemen Capital of Sana’a, Opposition Says
-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 2012-01-01T23:48:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-01/pro-saleh-troops-fire-shells-on-yemen-capital-of-sana-a-opposition-says.html
Troops loyal to  Yemen ’s outgoing
president, Ali Abdullah Saleh, fired shells on the capital of
Sana’a, wounding at least three people, according to opposition
forces.  Troops led by Saleh’s son Ahmed yesterday fired 10 shells,
including four on the headquarters of an army division that
defected to the uprising against Saleh in March, the division
said in an e-mailed statement. The wounded included a female
student at Sana’a University, which was hit in the attack, the
army division said in the statement.  Tens of thousands of people protested yesterday at the
residence of Yemen’s vice president, Abdurabu Mansur Hadi,
demanding that Saleh and his relatives who command key security
and military units be tried for the killing of protesters during
the uprising.  Saleh’s political party said he won’t leave for medical
treatment in the U.S. unless he is guaranteed respect worthy of
his title. Saleh was supposed to leave for the U.S. for
treatment of wounds he sustained during an assassination attempt
in June.  In  Syria , government forces killed 10 protesters across the
country, Al-Jazeera reported, quoting unidentified opponents of
the government.  The president of the Arab Parliament said the  Arab League 
should either mobilize a military force to challenge Syria’s
leadership or withdraw from the country and rely on the  United
Nations  to deal with the issue, according to Al-Jazeera.  Only Two Options  “The Arab League has only two options: Either quit the
Syrian profile totally and refer it to the United Nations and
the  Security Council , or form an Arabic military force to
confront the Syrian regime,” Ali Salim Al-Diqbasi, president of
the Arabic Parliament, said in a telephone interview from
Kuwait.  Syrian government forces detained Wa’ad Mahfouz, an
advocate for  women’s rights , in the city of Harasta, the Syrian
Observatory for Human Rights said in e-mailed statement.  Iran ’s currency dropped yesterday, a day after President
Barack Obama signed a law imposing sanctions on the country’s
central bank. The value of the Iranian rial dropped from 11,179
per  U.S. dollar  to 16,000 per U.S. dollar today, Al-Jazeera
said.  Obama signed a defense spending bill on Dec. 31 that
tightens sanctions on Iran by denying access to the U.S.
financial system to any foreign bank that conducts business with
the Central Bank of Iran.  Roadside Bomb  Iraq Finance Minister Rafie Al-Issawi survived an
assassination attempt after a roadside bomb north of Baghdad
exploded as he passed by in a vehicle, according to Al-Sumaria.
Two of his guards were wounded in the blast, the  news agency 
said.  In  Egypt , Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, the head
of the military council ruling the country, moved forward the
timeline for elections to the upper house of parliament, the
independent Al-Shorouk newspaper reported today.  Tantawi said second-round runoffs for the election will take
place on Feb. 22, 20 days earlier than originally scheduled, the
newspaper reported. The upper house, the Shura Council, will
convene on Feb. 28, Tantawi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a, Yemen, at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  