-- Romney Leads, Santorum Surges in Iowa Poll
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n
-- 2012-01-01T18:42:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-01/romney-leads-in-iowa-republican-candidate-poll-as-state-s-caucuses-near.html
Republican presidential candidates
 Mitt Romney ,  Ron Paul  and Rick Santorum led the most closely
followed poll in  Iowa  as rivals in the state’s Jan. 3 caucuses
pushed their policies on Sunday talk shows.  The  Iowa Poll  by the Des Moines Register newspaper,
released late yesterday, showed Romney, a former Massachusetts
governor, with the support of 24 percent of likely Republican
caucus-goers. Paul, a Texas congressman, had the backing of 22
percent. Santorum, a former U.S. senator from  Pennsylvania , won
15 percent after a surge in the final two days of sampling.  “It is a wide open race,” said Iowa Governor Terry Branstad, a Republican, during an interview on “Fox News
Sunday.” “Any of the candidates potentially could win here.”  Santorum, Paul, Minnesota Representative  Michele Bachmann 
and Texas Governor Rick Perry each argued in television
interviews today that the momentum was in their favor. Romney
and former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  haven’t yet appeared
today in interviews, as Romney’s poll numbers rose and
Gingrich’s fell.  Romney’s support in the Iowa Poll is up from 16 percent
when it was last taken a month ago. Gingrich, who led in the
poll a month ago, registered at 12 percent in the latest survey.
Perry was backed by 11 percent of likely caucus-goers. And
Bachman won 7 percent.  More Time  Santorum, who has spent more time in Iowa than any of the
Republican candidates, is seeing the benefits of his labor. If
the final two days of the Iowa Poll are considered separately,
Santorum rises to second place, with 21 percent, pushing Paul to
third, at 18 percent. Romney remains steady at 24 percent.  The Dec. 27-30 survey of 602 likely Republican caucus
participants had a margin of error of plus or minus 4 percentage
points. The margin of error for the last two days alone jumps to
5.6 percentage points.  The final polling showed “a whole new ballgame for  Rick
Santorum ,” said J. Ann Selzer, president of West Des Moines-
based  Selzer & Co. , which conducted the Register’s poll.  “If he continues on this trajectory, he can win,” she
said. “He benefits from Romney holding steady -- not getting
stronger with increased time in the state, and from a rather
dramatic slide by Ron Paul.”  The swing for Santorum was unusually strong just ahead of
Iowa’s first-in-the-nation caucuses, Selzer said.  ‘Dramatic’ Swing  “I do not remember as dramatic a swing as these four days
of polling reveal,” she said of her work with caucus polls.  Santorum, appearing on NBC’s “Meet the Press” today, said
he has long told people his momentum would shift as Iowans spent
more time analyzing the candidates.  “My surge is going to come on Jan. 3 after the people of
Iowa do what they do,” Santorum said.  Santorum said he would be best equipped to deal with  Iran ,
threatening air strikes unless the country dismantled its
nuclear facilities or opened them up to inspectors.  “You can’t go out and say this is what I’m for and then do
nothing,” he said. “You become a paper tiger and people don’t
respect our country.”  Santorum said he would support certain exceptions to a ban
on abortion as long as the resulting laws were more restrictive
than the status quo.  “I’ll support laws that move the ball forward,” he said.  Winning Converts  Bachmann, in interviews on ABC’s “This Week” and “Fox
News Sunday,” argued that she’s won “thousands” of converts
in recent days with a tour of Iowa’s 99 counties. She, Perry and
Santorum all said they have what it takes to appeal to the most
socially conservative Republican voters.  “I’m the strongest core conservative in this race,”
Bachmann said on “This Week.” Perry argued on Fox that he
would appeal to people looking for someone who’s an “outsider”
that doesn’t hail from  Washington  or  Wall Street .  The poll shows the fluidity that remains ahead of the
caucuses, with 41 percent of survey participants saying they
could still change their minds.  “If this is the  Super Bowl , then we just saw the pre-game
show,” Gingrich spokesman R.C. Hammond said of the poll. “But
everyone knows the real action happens after kickoff.”  All of the candidates competing in Iowa will be back in the
state on the campaign trail today, with the exception of Paul,
who is taking the New Year’s holiday weekend off.  Taking on Obama  During an interview today on CNN’s “State of the Union”
program, Paul dismissed rival criticism that he could not be
elected in a general election against President  Barack Obama .  “I was elected 12 times once people got to know me in my
own congressional district,” he said. “I think that might be
propaganda more than anything else.”  Suggestions that his libertarian views are out the
mainstream are a “gross distortion,” Paul said.  “Why are the crowds getting bigger and bigger?” he said.
“I’m pretty mainstream.”  Paul said he has no plans to run as a third-party
candidate, if he doesn’t get the Republican nomination.  “We’re doing very, very well,” he said. “On Tuesday,
we’re going to find out a lot more about the future of this
election.”  Paul predicted he would finish first or second in Iowa.  “We’re pretty optimistic about getting our people out,”
he said. “I doubt if I will come in third or fourth.”  Defending Positions  On  Fox News , Paul defended his past comments criticizing
sexual harassment laws, arguing that people should quit their
jobs if something like a joke makes them uncomfortable. Current
laws cover any violence in the workplace, he said.  “You have to get a better definition of sexual
harassment,” Paul said.  Paul also denied that his campaign, or anyone connected to
it, paid Bachmann’s former state chairman to defect to his side.  Romney today picked up the  endorsement  of the Quad City
Times newspaper in eastern Iowa.  The final Iowa Poll before the caucuses has a strong track
record for reflecting the likely winner.  In 2008, the last poll before the caucuses showed  Mike Huckabee  at 32 percent and Romney at 26 percent. The former
Arkansas governor finished with 34 percent of the vote and
Romney got 25 percent.  On the Democratic side in 2008, the poll showed then
Senator Barack Obama at 32 percent. He won with 37.6 percent of
the vote, starting him on his way toward the presidency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCormick in West  Des Moines , Iowa, at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net 
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  