-- Santorum Says He Would Threaten Air Strikes Against Iran
-- B y   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n   a n d   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-01-02T00:53:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-01/santorum-says-he-d-strike-iran-s-nuclear-plants-unless-inspections-allowed.html
Republican presidential hopeful  Rick Santorum  said he would use air strikes against  Iran  unless the
country dismantled its nuclear program or allowed inspectors to
verify that the work isn’t aimed at making a weapon.  “I would be saying to the Iranis, you either open up those
facilities, you begin to dismantle them and make them available
to inspectors, or we will degrade those facilities through air
strikes,” Santorum said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” program
today. “Iran will not get a nuclear weapon under my watch.”  Santorum, a former U.S. senator from  Pennsylvania , has
surged in polls of Republicans days before the Jan. 3 Iowa
caucuses. He’s now in third place, according to a Des Moines
Register poll released late yesterday.  The  Iowa  poll showed  Mitt Romney , a former Massachusetts
governor, with the support of 24 percent of likely Republican
caucus-goers.  Ron Paul , a Texas congressman, had the backing of
22 percent. Santorum won 15 percent after a surge in the final
two days of sampling.  Iran is facing new Western efforts to halt its suspected
nuclear weapons program, including U.S. sanctions signed into
law yesterday by President Barack Obama and a possible European
Union ban on imports of oil from Iran, the world’s third-largest
oil exporter. Iran denies seeking to develop atomic weapons.  Santorum expressed similar views about Iran in a Dec. 15
Republican presidential debate in Sioux City, Iowa, saying “we
need to make sure that they do not have a nuclear weapon.”  “We should be planning a strike against their facilities
and say, if you do not open up those facilities and not close
them down, we will close them down for you,” he said.  “You can’t get out and say this is what I’m for and then
do nothing,” Santorum said. “You become a paper tiger and
people don’t respect our country.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net 
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  