-- China’s Xi Agrees to Consider Summit, Japan Envoy Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-26T00:38:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/abe-s-envoy-gives-letter-to-xi-in-bid-to-ease-japan-china-spat.html
China ’s Communist Party General
Secretary Xi Jinping has agreed to consider holding a summit
with  Japan ’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe aimed at easing tensions
over a territorial dispute, a Japanese government envoy said.  Natsuo Yamaguchi, leader of Abe’s junior coalition partner,
told reporters after meeting Xi in Beijing yesterday he
suggested both sides make efforts to hold a summit and Xi told
him that “high-level talks were important and he would
seriously consider this.”  The comments signal both sides may be seeking to reduce a
conflict that has intensified in the past month, with each
country dispatching fighter jets and patrol boats near islands
at the heart of the territorial claims. The dispute has damaged
the two countries’ trade relationship and drawn in the U.S.,
which warned last week against any disruption to Japan’s
administration of the area.  “Dialogue is very welcome but they’re doing one thing with
one hand and another thing with the other hand,” Stephanie
Kleine-Ahlbrandt, the Beijing-based North East Asia project
director for the  International Crisis Group , said of China’s
actions. “If we start to see a change in the deployment of
Chinese law enforcement vessels then we’ll see that there really
has been a change in the Chinese position.”  Yesterday’s meeting was the highest-level bilateral
encounter since Abe took office last month pledging to boost
defense spending in response to China’s claims to the islands,
called Diaoyu in Chinese and Senkaku in Japanese.  Overcome Difficulties  Xi told Yamaguchi that China and Japan’s leaders must
“overcome the difficulties in bilateral relations,” Foreign
Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said at a briefing yesterday. “Xi
stressed that in order to maintain the long-term steady and
healthy development of bilateral relations we must look at the
larger picture.”  Japanese military planes were dispatched to head off
approaching Chinese aircraft 91 times in the last three months
of 2012, compared with 15 times in the April-June period,
according to figures released by Japan’s  Defense Ministry  on
Jan. 24.  The last summit was held between Japanese Prime Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda  and Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  in Beijing last
May. Noda in September authorized the purchase of three of the
islands, sparking violent protests in China that damaged
Japanese businesses.  “About the Senkaku isles, he said there are differences
and that it is important to resolve them through talks and
discussion,” Yamaguchi, head of the New Komeito party, told
reporters about his conversation with Xi. “He said he wanted to
move ahead with a strategic, mutually beneficial relationship,
taking a broad view.”  ‘Secret Whispers’  In a Jan. 24 editorial, the Chinese state-run Global Times
newspaper said it was doubtful that “the secret whispers
brought by Yamaguchi are valuable.”  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  last week reiterated
that while the U.S. takes no position on the sovereignty issue,
the islands “are under the administration of Japan and we
oppose any unilateral actions that would seek to undermine”
that. Chinese officials denounced the comments, with Foreign
Ministry spokesman Qin Gang calling them “ignorant of facts.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Chua Baizhen in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net ;
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  