-- Madoff Employees Questioned If Firm Was Scam, Ex-CFO Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-01-26T00:35:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/madoff-employees-questioned-if-firm-was-scam-ex-cfo-says-1-.html
Frank DiPascali Jr., who admitted to
helping his boss Bernard L. Madoff carry out the biggest Ponzi
scheme ever, told FBI agents that employees asked him if the
business was a “scam” before the world learned the truth.  DiPascali, the chief financial officer at Bernard L. Madoff
Investment Securities LLC who pleaded guilty to 10 criminal
charges and is cooperating with the U.S., gave extensive
interviews to Federal Bureau of Investigation agents as part of
its probe.  “There were times when DiPascali’s employees came to him
with questions,” FBI agents wrote in a memo filed in federal
court in  Manhattan  that refers to two former computer
programmers at the firm, Jerome O’Hara and George Perez,
“DiPascali, Perez and O’Hara used to socialize and at one of
those dinners Perez and O’Hara asked DiPascali if the entire
business was a scam and would blow up in their faces.”  “DiPascali lied and told them the stocks were being held
in the books as a liability,” the agents wrote.  Perez, O’Hara, Daniel Bonventre, the firm’s operations
chief, and two aides to Madoff, Annette Bongiorno and Joann Crupi, are accused of aiding the Ponzi fraud and face trial in
October.  FBI Reports  The memos, some of which reiterate FBI reports made public
by defense lawyers in March, were filed with the court today by
attorneys for the five defendants. The notes include newly
disclosed FBI interviews with Enrica Cotellessa-Pitz, the former
BLMIS controller who has pleaded guilty and is cooperating with
the U.S.  The day after Madoff’s December 2008 arrest, Cotellessa-
Pitz said she was at the firm’s midtown Manhattan office sitting
with Annette Bongiorno, who spent more than 40 years at BLMIS.
Cotellessa-Pitz is referred to in the FBI memo as “ECP.”  “At the time, ECP and Bongiorno were both devastated at
the news of Madoff’s arrest,” according to a May 31, 2011, FBI
memo. “Bongiorno then stated if she and ECP had talked more
about their work and had not been so concerned about
confidentiality, they could have ‘blown the lid off the whole
thing.’”  Defense attorneys are seeking additional evidence from the
government that could help their clients, including proof that
investors and other high-level BLMIS employees, such as Madoff’s
brother Peter, the firm’s chief compliance officer, and Peter’s
daughter, Shana, a lawyer, had knowledge of the Ponzi scheme.  May 2011  “Madoff, Bonventre, Peter Madoff and Shana Madoff
reiterated to ECP that the firm did not have customers,”
Cotellessa-Pitz told the FBI in the May 2011 report.  The defense lawyers said that of almost 14 million pages of
documents the U.S. has turned over to them, prosecutors have
produced only 64 pages of FBI interviews, and some of those
pages are almost entirely blacked out with redactions.  Eric Breslin, a lawyer for Crupi, asked in a memo to the
court on behalf of all five defendants for any additional
evidence of what  Bernard Madoff  told others, including his
family and investors and those who operated feeder funds.  Breslin argued that many high-level BLMIS employees have
never been charged with any crimes and that Peter Madoff was
allowed to plead guilty and be sentenced without admitting
knowledge of the Ponzi scheme.  ‘Sophisticated Investors’  “The government appears to have taken the position that
Madoff was able to fool all these people and organizations --
sophisticated investors, close family members, lawyers,
government regulators,” Breslin wrote.  “This now begs the question, ‘What did Madoff and others
say to these sophisticated individuals that convinced them of
BLMIS’s legitimacy?’”  Mark Warren Smith, a lawyer for Shana Madoff, didn’t
immediately respond to a voice-mail message seeking comment
about the witness’s account to the FBI. Charles Spada, a lawyer
for  Peter Madoff , didn’t immediately respond to a voice-mail
message seeking comment about the FBI memo.  Larry Krantz, a lawyer for Perez, and Gordon Mehler, a
lawyer for O’Hara, declined to comment. Roland Riopelle, a
lawyer for Bongiorno, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail
seeking comment about the memo.  Madoff pleaded guilty to fraud in 2009 for cheating
investors out of $20 billion in principal. He’s serving a 150-
year term in federal prison in North Carolina.  The case is U.S. v. O’Hara, 10-cr-00228, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 