-- Agents Can Challenge U.S. Deferred Deportation Plan
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-01-25T22:29:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/agents-can-challenge-u-s-deferred-deportation-plan.html
Ten U.S. immigration officers won a
court ruling allowing them to challenge an Obama administration
directive that lets some undocumented immigrants who arrived in
the country as children avoid deportation.  President  Barack Obama  in June announced the U.S. policy
change under which undocumented immigrants brought to the U.S.
before age 16 can remain if they have no criminal record and
meet other criteria.  The agents sued in August, asserting the “deferred
action” directive violates U.S. law, and that carrying out the
directive would compel them to violate their oaths while failing
to do so could subject them to job discipline.  U.S. District Judge Reed O’Connor in  Dallas  ruled the
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Agents had legal standing to
pursue most of their claims.  “The court finds that the potential disciplinary action
that results from failing to comply with the directive,” and a
related prosecutorial-discretion memorandum issued by ICE
Director  John Morton , “constitutes sufficient injury in fact.”  In a separate order issued today, O’Connor said he wants to
hold a hearing on the agents’ bid for a preliminary order
blocking the measure and directed attorneys from both sides to
collaborate on a report due Feb. 1 containing proposed hearing
dates, witness lists for each side and estimates of how much
time they need to present their cases.  The U.S.  Justice Department  didn’t immediately respond to a
request for comment on the ruling.  Mississippi Dismissed  In the ruling, O’Connor dismissed a claim filed by the
state of Mississippi, ruling that its alleged fiscal injury
caused by the policy change is “purely speculative.”  “There is no concrete evidence that costs associated with
the presence of illegal aliens in the state of  Mississippi  have
increased or will increase as a result of the directive or the
Morton Memorandum,” the judge wrote. Still, he said the state
could re-file later.  O’Connor also provisionally dismissed the ICE agents’
challenge to that part of the directive allowing the U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services to decide who, among those
qualifying for deferred action, are eligible for work
authorization.  The case is Crane v. Napolitano, 3:12-cv-03247, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  Texas  (Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  