-- AIG to Put Bonus Carrot in Front of Staff as U.S. Repaid
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-01-25T18:16:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/aig-to-put-bonus-carrot-in-front-of-staff-after-bailout-repaid.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
managers may get more incentive pay after the insurer exited its
U.S. bailout, ending government compensation limits, Chairman
Steve Miller said.  “You need to put a carrot out in front of people to get
them to perform at their very best,” Miller told Bloomberg
Television’s  Erik Schatzker  at the World Economic Forum in
Davos, Switzerland, today. “They’ve performed miracles without
it, but we think they can do even better if we can put in the
right tailored comp program.”  The Treasury Department imposed  pay restrictions  on top
executives at firms that received U.S. rescues amid the 2008
financial crisis. AIG finished repaying its $182.3 billion
bailout in December, freeing the New York-based insurer from
curbs that it said harmed the ability to attract, retain and
motivate its best employees.  “We finally had the last Treasury share of AIG sold in
December,” Miller said. “All of a sudden we’re free to now
manage our company like any other corporation.”  Miller, 71, said the compensation committee has met to
design the bonus program, and targets may be set within two
months.  AIG’s ability to shift compensation to an incentive-based
bonus model will help boost the shares, Daniel Loeb’s Third
Point LLC hedge fund said in an October letter to investors as
the fund added to its  stake .  Trader Bonuses  Kenneth Feinberg, who oversaw pay at seven bailout
recipients for Treasury, said in September that the pay limits
didn’t put AIG at a competitive disadvantage.  AIG was faulted in 2009 for paying retention bonuses to
employees including members of the Financial Products unit that
oversaw derivative bets that nearly shuttered the firm. Staff at
the derivatives unit got more than $400 million in incentive
payments after the rescue.  AIG Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , 68, received
less than some peers in 2011. He got about $14 million in total
compensation, including a $3 million salary and $10.9 million in
stock awards, according to a regulatory filing. Jay Fishman, the
CEO of Travelers Cos., the only insurer in the Dow Jones
Industrial Average, received $16.5 million. John Strangfeld, CEO
of Prudential Financial Inc., the No. 2 U.S. life insurer, got
$23.7 million.  CEO’s View  “If you want me, you can have me, but you’ve got to pay.
And you have to pay a lot, not because I need the money,”
Benmosche told AIG employees in 2009. “But the money is about
what I am worth, and what my job is worth to be your leader. And
that sets the tone for all of you in this room.”  Bonuses may shrink this year for some employees at U.S.
lenders including JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Citigroup Inc. as
shareholders press for better returns. Deutsche Bank AG may
reduce 2012 bonuses for investment bankers in  Europe  by as much
as 20 percent, while bankers in New York will see smaller
declines, according to people familiar with the matter.  Wall Street firms’ soaring pay over the last three decades
incentivized traders to disregard risk and limited regulators’
ability to lure talent to police banks, the Financial Crisis
Inquiry Commission wrote in a 545-page book published in 2011.  U.S. compensation limits prevented AIG from paying enough
to retain some of its top executives and made “little business
sense”, Harvey Golub said in a 2010  letter  when he was the
insurer’s chairman. Miller became chairman that year and was
appointed  CEO last year of Hawker Beechcraft Inc., the business
jet maker that counted  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  among its
investors.  Splitting Roles  Miller said he prefers that companies split the roles of
chairman and CEO, rather than the arrangement at Goldman Sachs
where Lloyd Blankfein has both duties.  “I think the right model is the separation of the job,
because they are very different jobs,” he told Schatzker. “But
more important is the fact that you have someone on the board to
lead the independent members of the board. It can be a lead
director, a presiding director or an independent chairman.”  Goldman Sachs last year named James Schiro as lead
independent director, replacing John H. Bryan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  