-- Taiwan Banks to Offer Yuan Deposits, Loans in Domestic Market
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-25T07:59:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/taiwan-banks-to-offer-yuan-deposits-loans-in-domestic-market.html
Taiwan  banks will be able to take
deposits of and make loans in Chinese  yuan  by the Lunar New Year
as part of an agreement to facilitate greater use of the
currency across the Taiwan Strait.  Individuals will be allowed to deposit up to 20,000 yuan
($3,213) each per day in local accounts, the island’s central
bank said today in a statement, adding that loans in the
currency will not be available to foreign companies. Yuan
deposits held by Taiwanese lenders’ offshore units totaled 21.5
billion yuan at the end of November, official data show. The
island’s 10-year sovereign bonds yield 1.16 percent in Taipei,
less than half the 3 percent rate for similar-maturity Chinese
government debt in Hong Kong.  China , Taiwan’s biggest trading partner and No. 1
investment destination, is seeking a greater role for the yuan
in global finance at a time when monetary easing in the U.S.,
Europe and Japan is boosting the supply of dollars, euros and
yen. The People’s Bank of China in December appointed the Bank
of China’s Taipei branch as a yuan clearing bank, paving the way
for the island to join  Hong Kong  as an offshore trading hub for
the currency.  Cross-border trade denominated in yuan has expanded four-
fold since August 2010 to almost 200 billion yuan in October,
Euroclear Bank SA reported last month, citing Hong Kong Monetary
Authority figures. China has currency-swap agreements totaling
about 1.8 trillion yuan with countries including  Australia ,
South Korea, Malaysia and Turkey, the Taipei-based Chung-Hua
Institution for  Economic Research  said in a report published on
Nov. 20.  Taiwan has been governed separately from the mainland since
1949 when the Kuomintang fled from Communist forces during a
civil war. Mainland China has pledged to unify the two sides, by
force if necessary. Exports account for more than two-thirds of
Taiwan’s economy and nearly 30 percent of shipments are bound
for China, finance ministry data shows.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net ;
Argin Chang in Taipei at 
 achang153@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  