-- Taiwan Dollar Forwards Fall This Week as Yen Drops; Bonds Steady
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-01-25T08:33:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/taiwan-dollar-forwards-fall-this-week-as-yen-drops-bonds-steady.html
Taiwan dollar  forwards had their
biggest weekly loss in seven months on speculation a weakening
yen will prompt the island’s central bank to step up efforts to
prevent gains in the local currency.  Premier Sean Chen asked the island’s central bank and
economic affairs ministry to closely monitor the effects of the
 Bank of Japan ’s monetary easing measures aimed at weakening the
yen, which has dropped 12 percent versus the dollar in the past
three months.  Japan ’s Deputy Economy Minister Yasutoshi Nishimura said yesterday the currency’s decline isn’t over after
the Bank of Japan announced open-ended easing to revive the
economy.  Taiwan ’s electronics manufacturers compete globally
against Japanese counterparts.  “Taiwan will probably maintain the kind of operation they
have been doing, which aims to moderate the appreciation
pressure on the currency,” said Suan Teck Kin, an economist at
United Overseas Bank Ltd. in  Singapore . “The worst may be over
but it’s still a struggle for exporters. Taiwan and  Korea  are
the two most affected by a weakening yen.”  One-month non-deliverable forwards for Taiwan’s dollar slid
0.8 percent this week to NT$29.148 versus the greenback as of
4:28 p.m. in Taipei, the biggest loss since the period ended
June 1, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The contracts
fell 0.4 percent today.  The currency retreated 0.7 percent this week to NT$29.25
against its U.S. counterpart, based on prices from Taipei Forex
Inc. It was 0.4 percent lower today, having extended a 0.1
percent drop in the final minute of trading on suspected
intervention by the central bank.  The monetary authority has sold its currency to counter
gains in the run-up to the close on most days in the past nine
months, according to traders, who asked not to be identified.
The Taiwan dollar touched NT$28.928 on Jan. 14, the strongest
level since September 2011.  Less Volatile  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the  exchange rate  used to price options, increased 49 basis
points, or 0.49 percentage point, to 3.38 percent in the past
five days. The gauge rose 63 basis points today. It reached 2.6
percent on Jan. 22, the lowest level since September 2007.  Taiwan’s exports increased 9 percent in December from a
year earlier, after a 0.9 percent gain the previous month, data
showed on Jan. 7. Growth averaged 10 percent in the past decade.  The yield on Taiwan’s 1.125 percent government bonds due
September 2022 was little changed today and this week at 1.16
percent, according to Gretai Securities Market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  