-- Takeda Diabetes Drug Succeeding Actos Wins FDA Approval
-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 2013-01-27T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/takeda-diabetes-drug-succeeding-actos-wins-fda-approval.html
Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) , whose
best-selling diabetes drug Actos lost patent protection in
August, won U.S. regulatory approval for a new treatment five
years after its initial application.  Takeda and  Furiex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (FURX) , its partner on the
drug, received clearance from the Food and Drug Administration
for alogliptin and two alogliptin combinations to use with diet
and exercise for patients with Type 2 diabetes. “Alogliptin
helps stimulate the release of insulin after a meal, which leads
to better blood sugar control,” the FDA said Jan. 25 in a
statement.  The approval gives  Osaka , Japan-based Takeda a new revenue
source as cheaper generics erode earnings from Actos, its
largest sales contributor and once the world’s biggest diabetes
drug. Takeda, whose application for alogliptin was twice
rejected by the FDA, has projected net income would fall to a
13-year low of 120 billion yen ($1.3 billion) in the 12 months
through March 2015. The company said it plans to sell the
medicines beginning in mid-2013.  “Millions of people are affected by diabetes and, as a
leader in the diabetes arena, Takeda is dedicated to working to
advance patient care and helping to meet the needs of this
growing patient population,” Douglas Cole, president of
Takeda’s U.S. subsidiary, said in a statement.  Actos sales peaked in the year ended March 2011 at $4.5
billion for Takeda and accounted for 27 percent of the company’s
revenue.  Alogliptin is in the same class of drugs as  Merck & Co. (MRK) ’s
Januvia, which generated $3.3 billion in 2011, and  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s Onglyza, which sold $473 million that year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  2009 Rejection  The first rejection of alogliptin came in June 2009, when
the FDA said clinical data was insufficient based on new
guidelines on diabetes treatments and cardiovascular risks
released in December 2008. Takeda conducted additional studies
for its resubmission. In April last year, the FDA asked for more
information on the use of the medicine in other countries.  In the U.S., 25.8 million children and adults, or 8.3
percent of the population, have diabetes, including 7 million
people who are undiagnosed, according to figures from  the
American Diabetes Association ’s website.  Diabetes is caused by the body’s inability to use or
produce the hormone insulin. It can lead to heart disease,
kidney failure, blindness or amputations. Most people have the
Type 2 form linked to being overweight or inactive.  Alogliptin is approved in  Japan  and sold under the brand
name of Nesina. The tablets will go by the same name in the U.S.
The other products will be called Oseni and Kazano, Takeda said
in the statement.  Furiex will receive a $25 million payment as a result of
the approval as well as royalties based on U.S. sales, the
Morrisville, North Carolina-based company said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  