-- Alberta to Cut Services as Low Oil Price Takes C$6B From Budget
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-01-25T02:40:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/alberta-to-cut-services-as-low-oil-price-takes-c-6b-from-budget.html
Alberta , home to  Canada ’s oil and
gas industry, will collect C$6 billion (US$5.98 billion) less
revenue in 2013 as a result of the low price of Canadian heavy
oil, Premier Alison Redford said.  Alberta will have to hold the line on spending, and some
public programs and services “will change, especially those
that are not sustainable over the long term,” Redford said in a
televised address.  Alberta relies on royalties and taxation of the oil and
natural gas industry for 30 percent of its revenue. A 35 percent
drop over the past four months for the price of Western Canada
Select, the benchmark Canadian crude that averaged $71.80 last
year, has widened the gap relative to world oil prices and
forced Redford’s government to find ways to make up for the
shortfall.  “Because of rapidly growing levels of oil production in
the United States, and the fact that we have virtually nowhere
else to sell our oil but to the U.S. market, Alberta is getting
just over $50 a barrel for our oil,” Redford said.  The falling price of Alberta heavy oil “is getting worse
for the foreseeable future,” and the falling prices last year
meant Alberta collected C$1 billion less resource revenue than
it expected, she said.  Redford didn’t elaborate on specific spending cuts or
others details of the provincial  budget , which will be made
public March 7. She said the C$6 billion estimate of lost
revenue is equal to Alberta’s annual spending on education.  Alberta needs to find new markets for its oil overseas in
order to avoid being so susceptible to swings in prices, she
said.  Heritage Fund  Redford also said her government has a plan to invest more
resource revenue in the Heritage Fund, a provincial wealth fund,
for the first time in more than 25 years.  Alberta’s 2013-2014 budget “is not going to be fun” and
the province needs “to make corrections to our spending,”
provincial Finance Minister Doug Horner told the Calgary Chamber
of Commerce on Jan. 21.  Alberta will probably borrow more this year, taking
advantage of the province’s AAA rating and low interest rates,
Horner said in a Jan. 18 interview. The province will also tap
its sustainability fund to help offset lower revenue from the
world’s cheapest oil, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  