-- Halliburton Beats Estimates on Improved Work Outside U.S.
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2013-01-25T21:32:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/halliburton-profit-falls-on-u-s-fracking-equipment-glut.html
Halliburton Co. (HAL) , the world’s second-
largest oilfield-services provider, reported fourth-quarter
earnings that beat analysts’ estimates as customers around the
world boosted spending at the end of the year. Shares rose the
most in more than a year.  Excluding discontinued operations, the Houston-based
 company  earned 63 cents a share, 2 cents higher than the average
of 33 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales climbed
3.2 percent to $7.3 billion, which was more than the average of
24 analysts’ estimates.  Halliburton, which generated 56 percent of its sales in
North America last year, is increasing its international
operations to take advantage of increased oil-company spending
globally.  “Across the board they did better than expected,” Stephen Gengaro, an analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. in  New York , who
rates the shares a buy and owns none, said today in a telephone
interview. “We expected declines in  North America . They just
didn’t decline as much as expected.”  Halliburton rose 5.1 percent to $39.72 at the close in New
York, the biggest gain since Dec. 20, 2011.  Explorers and producers around the world are expected to
boost spending another 5.5 percent this year to a record $645
billion, Jim Crandell, an analyst at Dahlman Rose & Co., wrote
earlier this month in a note to investors.  Global Margins  Operating profit margin outside the U.S. and Canada  should
average in the “upper teens” this year, Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Dave Lesar told analysts and investors today
on a conference call. The margin was 17.6 percent in the fourth
quarter, according to Bloomberg calculations.  In North America, where operating profit margin fell to
12.4 percent, the U.S. land margin is projected to have hit
bottom in the fourth quarter, Lesar said.  Net income dropped to $669 million, or 72 cents a share,
from $906 million, or 98 cents, a year earlier, Halliburton said
in a statement today.  While North American operating income declined, the
company’s region that includes the Middle East and  Asia  reported
income that rose 43 percent to $243 million.  ‘Home Run’  “They really hit a home run there,” said Brian Youngberg,
an analyst at  Edward Jones  in  St. Louis , who rates the shares a
hold and owns none.  The shares have 23 buy and 12 hold  ratings  from analysts.  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) , the world’s largest oilfield services
provider, reported Jan. 18 fourth-quarter earnings that beat
analysts’ estimates as drilling in the U.S. Gulf of  Mexico 
increased.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  