-- Amber Perfume in Brooklyn, $1.2 Million Desk: N.Y. Scene
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-01-25T16:20:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/amber-perfume-in-brooklyn-1-2-million-desk-n-y-scene.html
On his desk is a tiny wood-framed
picture of his son.  “I carry it everywhere I go,” said William Nadylam last
night after his performance as Philomen in “The Suit” at the
Brooklyn Academy of Music, a red button rose peeking from his
jacket pocket.  Peter Brook’s production opened in Paris last year and has
traveled to  London  and  China . Nadylam plays a doting husband
hardened by the discovery of his wife’s adultery.  Last night’s performance, a benefit for BAM, received a
standing ovation. In the audience were actor John Turturro
(who’ll be tackling Ibsen at BAM in the spring); Adam Chinn, a
co-founder of Centerview Partners LLC; choreographer Mark
Morris; singer-songwriter Stew; and Adam Max, managing principal
at Jordan Co.  Alan Fishman, chairman of BAM, was randomly plucked from
the audience for a stage cameo as a party guest.  “I was shocked at how controlled the actors are
physically,” Fishman said.  Afterward, the actors joined patrons at a reception in the
Harvey Theater, and Nadylam shared the traveling needments he
lays out on whatever desk he finds to hand.  Besides his son’s picture, there’s a bottle of  Serge Lutens 
perfume, which smells like amber and leather, Nadylam said,
pushing up his light-blue shirt sleeve to offer a sample. There
is a pen and paper and an iPad.  “When you are on the road, you can have 400 books. I have
all of Shakespeare!” said the actor, who played Hamlet in a
Brook production.  Writing Desk  He also has an ergonomic desk attachment so he can work
standing up. He imagines that Shakespeare wrote standing up, he
said, flourishing an imaginary pen through the air.  One thing for certain: The bard didn’t have the option of
working on the desk created by Wendell Castle in 1965.  It went on view last night at the preview of the Winter
Antiques Show at the Park Avenue Armory, with an asking price of
$1.2 million.  “Look at the legs, it looks like it’s a panther, about to
pounce,” said Jim Elkind of  Lost City Arts .  Castle never made a desk all by himself after this one and
it seems to prove his point that furniture can be art. He
famously submitted a stool to a juried exhibition of sculpture
to show there was no difference.  “Furniture is capable of passion and emotion,” Castle
once said.  Private Hands  The desk has been in private hands since Castle made it.
Its rich vermillion wood shines, a flawless surface.  “If you work on it, you’d definitely use a blotter,”
Elkind said.  Last night, collectors such as Peter Brant and Richard Chilton assessed through the Winter Antiques Show. Chilton
deemed an 1876 porcelain vase at  Michele Beiny Inc. 
“spectacular.”  The preview benefited  East Side House Settlement , which
provides educational services in the South Bronx.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater, Frederik
Balfour on  art .  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 