-- Apple Names Product Assemblers in Boost to Supplier Transparency
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2013-01-25T08:17:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/apple-names-product-assemblers-in-boost-to-supplier-transparency.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  named the  final
assemblers  of each of its products as the world’s most valuable
company boosts the transparency of its global supply chain.  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317) , the world’s largest
contract manufacturer of electronics, was identified as making
iPads, iPhones, iPods, Macs and accessories at seven locations
globally, including Jundiai in  Brazil ’s Sao Paulo state. Apple
and  Quanta Computer Inc. (2382)  assemble Macs in Ireland and Fremont,
California, according to the report released today.  The decision to  publish  names and addresses of the top 200
materials, components and final-assembly suppliers expands on
Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook ’s moves last year to loosen the
secrecy surrounding production and conditions linked to the
Cupertino, California-based company. The list was published on
Apple’s website as its annual Supplier Responsibility Report
outlines moves to raise labor and environmental standards.  Hon Hai, flagship of Terry Gou’s Foxconn Technology Group,
assembles Apple devices at six locations in  China  in addition to
iPads and iPhones in Brazil.  Pegatron Corp. (4938) , based in Taipei,
makes iPads and iPhones in  Shanghai , according to the list.  Quanta, based in Taouyuan,  Taiwan , also produces Macs in
Shanghai and iPods in Jiangsu, China. Inventec Appliances Corp.,
based in New Taipei City, makes iPods and accessories in
Shanghai.  Apart from Apple’s own facility, the only non-Taiwanese
assembler is Cork, Ireland-based  PCH International , which makes
accessories.  Analysts and investors use data from suppliers to estimate
demand and sales for Apple’s end products.  Japan’s  Sharp Corp. (6753)  and Japan Display Inc., Taiwan’s  AU
Optronics Corp. (2409)  and  Innolux Corp. (3481) , and South Korea’s Samsung
Electronics Co. and LG Display Co., each makers of display
panels, were on the broader list of materials and components
suppliers. The list didn’t specify what products were purchased
from each company.  Apple first  published  a list of suppliers last year,
without saying what they made or where the products were
manufactured.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 