-- Bank of Italy’s Role Isn’t to Act as ‘Police’ for Paschi
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-01-25T12:44:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/bank-of-italy-role-isn-t-to-be-police-for-paschi-visco-says.html
The  Bank of Italy ’s role isn’t to
“police” lender Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA and the
central bank wasn’t informed of newly emerged transactions
producing losses, said Governor Ignazio Visco.  The central bank “is a supervisor, not the police of the
banks,” Visco said today in an interview with Bloomberg
Television’s Francine Lacqua in Davos,  Switzerland .  The central bank will review Paschi’s books after the
company disclosed this week it may face more than 700 million
euros ($941 million) of losses related to structured finance
transactions hidden from regulators.  The Siena, Italy-based bank’s difficult liquidity
situation, which is also due to “risky” deals, has been known
for a long time, Visco said. New derivatives transactions linked
to earlier deals have emerged and the central bank wasn’t
informed of losses connected to them, Visco said.  Monte Paschi shareholders are today voting on a capital
increase to pave the way for emergency government loans needed
to boost capital. The stability of the bank is not in question
and Monte Paschi “needs money because it has to meet certain
standards of capital,” Visco said.  Once the bank’s board makes a formal request “we will
intervene, evaluating the sustainability,” Visco said. “We
will give our advice, which is required, but there is no problem
in terms of the standing of the bank.”  The Bank of  Italy  may approve the aid as soon as tomorrow,
financial newspaper MF reported today, without citing anyone.  The central bank and caretaker Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
have come under pressure amid a political campaign for Feb. 24-
25 national elections for possible failures linked to Monte
Paschi. The transactions are now being reviewed by the central
bank’s oversight division as well as judicial authorities, the
Bank of Italy said Jan. 23.  Former Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  said today in an
interview on SkyTG24 that normally it’s up to the Bank of Italy
to inform prosecutors and not the other way around. “I think
everything was very well known in certain circles,” he said.  Visco also said risks in the euro area have come down
“significantly” because of the  European Central Bank ’s bond-
buying plan, improvements in economic governance at European
level and countries’ efforts on structural and budgetary
reforms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  