-- Barbour Calls for Revisions to U.S. Immigration Laws
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-01-26T05:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/barbour-calls-for-comprehensive-revisions-to-immigration-laws.html
Former Republican National Committee
Chairman  Haley Barbour , urging his party to reach out to
minorities, called for changes to U.S. immigration laws,
including a path to citizenship for undocumented people.  “How do you vote for somebody who wants to make your
grandmama leave?” Barbour said, referring to Republican
presidential nominee  Mitt Romney ’s call during last year’s
campaign for undocumented immigrants to “self-deport.”  “We have to come up with a better campaign in 2016,”
Barbour said on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital With
 Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend. “We’ve got to face up to some
demographic issues.”  Other Republicans have opposed what U.S. Representative
Lamar Smith of  Texas  termed “mass amnesty for illegal
immigrants.” Some have said the only steps needed to address
the issue are expanding visas for high-technology workers and
more border control.  Barbour, a onetime Mississippi governor, said he saw “very
little” common ground for Republicans in President  Barack Obama ’s Jan. 21 inaugural address, saying it “accented the
polarization that we have in the American political system.”  Barbour said hostility to the Republican position on
immigration helped Obama do 11 percentage points better in the
election than Romney among women voters of all ethnic and racial
groups, according to a  CNN exit poll .  That edge can be attributed in large part to the support he
received from Hispanics, Barbour said.  “These women were affected more by the perception that we
were not welcoming to Hispanics,” Barbour said.  Job Creation  He also said Republicans need to advocate policies for
economic growth and job creation. “And then we need to go and
sell that, to tell people, ‘Here’s what we’re for, here’s why
we’re for it, here’s why we think it’ll help you and your
community and your hometown,’” he said.  Barbour, 65, said that along those lines, it was good
business to allow many of the illegal immigrants in the U.S. to
stay.  “If we will follow what’s good economic policy, we will
recognize that we are in a global battle for capital and for
labor,” Barbour said. “We need the labor, not just H-1B visas
for PhDs and engineering from  India , but also we need
agricultural labor.”  He said undocumented workers who have paid taxes and have a
job should be allowed to stay under a guest-worker program, and
then be offered a path to citizenship.  “I mean, even if you want to, you couldn’t send them
back,” he said.  ‘Every Right’  Saying that “every generation of Americans is more
tolerant,” Barbour said Republicans should welcome supporters
of same-sex marriage even as he personally believes the
institution should be reserved for one man and one woman.  “I believe other people have every right in the world to
have a different opinion, and they’re just as good of people and
just as good of Republicans as I am,” he said.  Obama, 51, mentioned gay rights in the same context as
 women’s rights  and civil rights in his inaugural address, which
Barbour criticized for what the speech didn’t mention.  “When it came down to talking about the budget, he
essentially said, ‘Yeah, we ought to reduce the deficit, but --
and here we’re going to spend this money and spend this money
and spend this money and spend this money,’” Barbour said.  He said he opposed efforts by some Republicans in states
won by Obama in 2012 to change the way electoral votes are
rewarded, allocating them by congressional district rather than
entirely by statewide results.  “I don’t think it’s a good idea,” he said. “I don’t
think anybody can predict with any form of precision who it’ll
help from this election to the next.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 