-- Bats Says Trading Error Affected Fewer Transactions
-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 2013-01-25T20:43:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/bats-says-trading-error-affected-fewer-transactions.html
Bats Global Markets Inc., the stock
exchange operator that acknowledged four years of bad trades,
said the error affected fewer transactions than first estimated.  Computer problems allowed about 12,000 trades that violated
rules intended to ensure all investors get the best prices for
equities, fewer than the 440,000 estimated earlier, Randy Williams, a Bats spokesman, said by e-mail today. Customers lost
$17,000, as opposed to $420,360, because of the error, he said.  Chief Executive Officer Joseph Ratterman had blamed the
mistakes on regulations he says are too complex, specifically
the regulatory ban on locked markets. Operators including  NYSE
Euronext (NYX)  have called for an overhaul of regulations that boosted
high-speed trading and the fragmentation of equity markets to 13
stock exchanges and about 50 private broker-run dark pools from
three dominant venues in the 1990s.  Bats disclosed the trading issues on Jan. 9 after an
internal review. The Lenexa, Kansas-based company successfully
deployed a fix for the error today, Williams said.  Regulation NMS, a rule the Securities and Exchange
Commission adopted in 2005 and implemented two years later,
prohibits exchanges from allowing locked markets, when a bid on
one venue is the same price as the ask on another. The rule
exists to increase the likelihood that someone quoting at the
best price will receive an execution.  Race Conditions  The violations occurred in situations that programmers
describe as “race conditions,” in which computers are
communicating with each other in real time while adjusting to
new information in the market. Computers that match orders for
two Bats equity exchanges and an options venue allowed some
trades to occur at prices inferior to the best available bid or
offer and enabled others to violate rules for short sales, or
bearish bets, the company said.  If the SEC permitted bids and offers on different exchanges
to exist at the same price, it wouldn’t be necessary to have
order types designed so customers can adjust their trade
requests as prices change, Ratterman said at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in  New York  at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  