-- Bears Shut Up by Data as Dollar Sales Reach Record: China Credit
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-01-25T02:19:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/bears-shut-up-by-data-as-dollar-sales-reach-record-china-credit.html
Chinese corporate dollar-denominated
bond sales are off to a record start as an accelerating economy
allays default concerns, driving down borrowing costs by the
most in  Asia .  Yuexiu Property Co. (123) , whose projects include the Guangzhou
International Finance Center, led $5.35 billion of offerings
since Dec. 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Average
yields on Chinese issuers’ dollar debt have dropped 417 basis
points to 5.49 percent from a year ago, surpassing the 322 slide
in  India  and the 189 decline in  South Korea .  “The economic data since November has shut many China
bears up,” said Tim Jagger, fixed income portfolio manager at
Aviva Investors Asia Pte, which manages $282 billion in global
fixed income assets as of September 2012. “China’s property
companies have never had the opportunity to fund at such
attractive rates.”  Global investors are offering Chinese borrowers the lowest
dollar premiums in 20 months, as they seek higher yields in the
 emerging markets , with interest rates near zero in the U.S.,
 Europe  and  Japan . The bullish tone contrasts with concerns
expressed by China skeptics after average yields on dollar
company bonds surged to 9.66 percent in January last year.  Hugh Hendry, founder of the London-based hedge fund
Eclectica Asset Management LLP that returned 31 percent in 2008
betting against U.S. growth, said last year that a real-estate
bubble may derail China’s boom.  Jim Chanos , who oversees $6
billion as the founder and president at Kynikos Associates Ltd.,
said in an interview with Bloomberg last month that “there’s a
credit bubble going on.” Chanos also flagged concerns that
profits at Chinese companies may be “skimmed to the benefit of
the elites.”  Economic Recovery  The world’s second-biggest economy accelerated for the
first time in two years last quarter. December data showed
advances in  home prices  and the biggest rise in retail sales in
nine months. Prices for new residences rose in 54 of the 70
cities the government tracks, the most in 20 months, according
to data from the statistics bureau on Jan. 18.  Chinese developers have offered $4.95 billion of bonds in
the U.S. currency this year, making January their busiest month
on record. Yuexiu Property sold $850 million in a two-part sale
of five-year and 10-year notes, its longest bonds ever and its
first publicly sold notes in a decade.  Funding Expansion  “Developers have realized better sales volumes so
sentiment in the sector has improved,” said Crystal Zhao, a
fixed-income analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc. “That’s why it’s
easier for these borrowers to come to the dollar space at a
relatively cheaper cost than before.”  The average yield premium Chinese real estate companies pay
has plunged 234 basis points, or 2.34 percentage points, in the
past 12 months to 220 basis points over benchmark rates as of
Jan. 24, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show. That
compares with a 100 basis-point fall to 157 for developers
globally.  Chinese authorities have raised down-payment and mortgage
requirements, imposed a property tax for the first time in
Shanghai and Chongqing, and enacted home-purchase restrictions
in about 40 cities.  Twelve developers from  China  have sold dollar bonds this
year despite the regulations, fueling speculation that others
will pile on as property sales rebound.  Longer Tenors  “At least in the China property space, there’s definitely
a sense that there is some indigestion because people expect a
huge pipeline,” said Brayan Lai, an analyst in emerging-market
credit trading at Jefferies Group Inc. in  Singapore . “Almost
any issuer with a 2014-2015 bond or convertible might try to
prefund their refinancing needs right now and, in addition to
that, some are building a war chest for acquisitions.”  Government, corporate and consumer debt in China likely
rose 15 percentage points in 2012 to an estimated 206 percent of
gross domestic product, according to a November report from
Standard Chartered PLC. In 2003, it stood at about 150 percent,
according to the report.  Chinese companies have still been able to sell longer-dated
debt to lock in cheaper financing. Country Garden Holdings Co.,
the developer controlled by China’s richest woman  Yang Huiyan ,
sold its longest-dated bond on Jan. 10, a $750 million 10-year
note at a yield of 7.5 percent.  Agile Property Holdings Ltd. (3383) , whose first project in 1992
was in Zhongshan in the southern province of Guangdong, sold the
first perpetual note for a Chinese company this year.  Fosun
International Ltd. (656) , the Shanghai-based steel-to-pharmaceutical
conglomerate, sold $400 million of seven-year securities at a
yield of 6.875 percent on Jan. 23.  Default Swaps  China’s economic growth is buoying appetite for riskier
assets and the country’s currency. Gross domestic product
expanded 7.9 percent in the three months through December, up
from 7.4 percent in the previous period.  The benchmark 10-year government bond  yield  has climbed to
3.58 percent from as low as 3.24 percent on July 11. Top-rated
corporate debt with similar maturities  pays  5.27 percent, down
two basis points this year.  The  yuan  touched 6.2124 per dollar last week, the strongest
level since the government unified the official and market
exchange rates at the end of 1993.  The cost of insuring China’s debt against non-payment with
credit-default swaps has fallen 1.3 basis point this year to 65
basis points, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. It is down from as high as 145.9
last year.  New Funds  Average premiums on dollar notes sold by companies in Asia
fell to a 20-month low of  245 basis points  more than Treasuries
on Jan. 7, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. Indexes.  Flows into emerging-market bond funds hit a 50-week high in
the week to Jan. 18, according to data provider EPFR Global.  “People have cash to deploy, global  interest rates  are low
and anecdotally we keep hearing that there are new funds being
launched every day to invest in the market,” said Neal Capecci,
a Hong Kong-based senior director for fixed income at Manulife
Asset Management. “There’s just a lot of cash chasing this
sector right now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  