-- Big Mac Index Cooks Abe’s Claim Yen Still Too Strong: Currencies
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o ,   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   H i r o k o   K o m i y a
-- 2013-01-25T02:28:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/big-mac-index-cooks-abe-s-claim-yen-still-too-strong-currencies.html
The increasing number of Japan’s
trading partners who say Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s campaign to
drive the yen lower has gone too far are gaining ammunition from
measures designed to assess the relative cost of goods.  The yen’s nominal rate of 90.40 per dollar today is 16
percent lower than the level that takes into account differences
in consumer prices in Japan and the U.S., according to the
Economist magazine’s Big Mac index. That’s the widest disparity
since 2009 and makes the yen the most undervalued of any Group
of 10 currency, according to the gauge, which measures worldwide
prices of  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) ’s signature burger.  Abe economic adviser Koichi Hamada said 100 per dollar is a
“good level” for the yen amid rising criticism globally of the
nation’s moves to support exporters. The prime minister isn’t
likely to get any sympathy from Group of 20 finance ministers
meeting next month in  Russia , where a central banker warned of a
“currency war” of competitive devaluation.  “Overseas governments will probably voice their objections
to Japan relying upon a weaker yen for economic recovery,”
Hiroshi Morikawa, an economist in Tokyo at the Institute for
International Monetary Affairs, which conducts research for the
government, said Jan. 23. “Developed nations seemingly shared
the view that the yen was overvalued when it was at the 70
level, but such a view is likely to recede.”  ‘Politicizing’ Currencies  Michael Meister, the parliamentary finance spokesman for
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s party, said this week that
Japan risks retaliatory action by G-20 nations.  European Central
Bank  governing council member Jens Weidmann warned this week
against “politicizing” the yen exchange rate.  The Economist’s index uses the ubiquitous hamburger’s local
price as a barometer of costs of labor and materials in
countries worldwide. The price was $4.33 in the U.S., based on
the latest survey, while the cost in yen in Japan was equivalent
to $4.09. The theory of purchasing-power parity contends that
undervalued currencies will appreciate over time to close the
gap, and vice versa for overvalued currencies.  When the yen touched a 4 1/2-year low of 124.14 per dollar
on June 22, 2007, it was 35 percent undervalued by the Big Mac
index, the most among G-10 currencies. From that point, it
surged 65 percent to a postwar record of 75.35 on Oct. 31, 2011.  Peso, Real  At the end of 2011, the  Mexican peso  was undervalued by 44
percent against the dollar, the most among major currencies.
Last year, it was the biggest gainer, rising 8.4 percent.
 Brazil ’s real was 27 percent overvalued in December 2011,
preceding a 9 percent slump in 2012.  The yen was the worst performer in the past three months
among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. It plunged about 13
percent during the period on speculation the  Bank of Japan (8301)  would
accede to pressure from Abe to double its inflation target to 2
percent and pledge unlimited money printing.  BOJ Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa , who’s due to step down in
April, and his board came through on both requests at the end of
a policy meeting on Jan. 22, though it delayed the extra easing
till next year, spurring a three-day rally in the yen. Japan’s
 core inflation rate  hasn’t been above 2 percent for more than a
year since 1992 and has averaged zero over the past two decades.  Data today showed Japan is a long way from inflation of any
kind. Consumer prices excluding fresh food fell 0.2 percent in
December from a year earlier, the statistics bureau said in
Tokyo today, marking the seventh decline in eight months.  ‘Aggressive Easing’  The yen is on course for an 11th weekly drop, a record in
Bloomberg data going back to 1971, and it touched 90.69 per
dollar today, the weakest since June 22, 2010.  “Shirakawa has left room for the next BOJ chief to do more
aggressive easing,” Daisuke Karakama, a market economist in
 Tokyo  at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd., said in a Jan. 23
interview. “The dollar-yen pair has soared at an almost
vertical angle since November, and this kind of gain is
impossible to continue without a correction. Yen weakness hasn’t
changed course.”  Abe is counting on a drop in the currency to bolster an
economy that’s estimated to have shrunk for the three
consecutive quarters through Dec. 31.  Hamada, a retired Yale University economics professor who
advises Abe on monetary policy, said Jan. 18 that 100 per dollar
is a “good level” and that chipmaker Elpida Memory Inc. went
bankrupt because the BOJ didn’t expand its balance sheet fast
enough to halt currency appreciation. Deputy Economy Minister
Yasutoshi Nishimura yesterday echoed Hamada’s opinion on the 100
yen level.  G-20 Meeting  Leaders from G-20 countries said in September 2009 that the
members will undertake monetary policies “in the context of
market-oriented exchange rates that reflect underlying economic
fundamentals.” Finance chiefs and deputy central bank governors
from G-20 nations will  gather  next month in Moscow.  Japan ’s Finance Minister Taro Aso last month questioned
whether the nations had stuck to their pledge to avoid
competitive currency devaluations, saying “foreign countries
have no right to lecture us.”  The yen appreciated almost 30 percent against the dollar
from the start of the U.S. Federal Reserve’s first round of so-
called quantitative easing in November 2008 until it reached the
record in October 2011.  Elpida, Japan’s last maker of computer-memory chips, filed
for  bankruptcy  four months later, citing the effect of the
strong yen. Currency appreciation makes Japanese-made products
costlier overseas, putting exporters at a disadvantage against
foreign rivals such as South Korea’s Samsung Electronics Co.  Official Grumbling  Japan’s trading partners are starting to grumble that the
yen has fallen too far. It tumbled 18 percent against the Korean
won last year, the most on record going back to 1986. Bank of
Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo said on Jan. 14 his nation needs
an “active” response in case exchange-rate volatility rises.  Alexei Ulyukayev, the first deputy chairman of Russia’s
central bank, said on Jan. 16 that leading economies are on the
brink of a “currency war” to keep up with Japan. Fed Bank of
St. Louis President  James Bullard  said this month that he was
“a little disturbed” by Japan’s exchange-rate strategy.  Officials from Germany and  Taiwan  have also joined in the
chorus of complaints this week about the yen’s drop.  “Currency policies tend to draw attention because major
economies have little room left for further monetary easing,”
Minori Uchida, the Tokyo head of global market research at the
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., said in an interview on Jan.
24. “We’re likely to see more comments from officials on
exchange rates, so there’ll be a tug-of-war between those
remarks and expectations for a weaker yen.”  Yen Depreciation  The yen will probably finish this year at 90 per dollar
before depreciating to 94 next year, according to median
estimates of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The currency has
traded at an average of about 101 in the past decade.  Abe said this week that the government intends to correct
an “excessively strong” yen and that his administration’s
mission is to get back a strong economy.  Japan’s government and central bank are “committed to
reflate the economy and directly or indirectly to weaken the
yen,” Callum Henderson, the Singapore-based global head of
currency research at Standard Chartered Plc, said on Bloomberg
Television on Jan. 23. “There’s no question that this is a
further aspect of the currency wars, but if that’s what it takes
to reflate the Japanese economy, then that’s exactly what’s
going to be done.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Hiroko Komiya in Tokyo at 
 hkomiya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  