-- Big Lots Cash Seen Luring Bidders as CEO Leaves: Real M&A
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2013-01-25T23:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/big-lots-cash-flow-seen-luring-bidders-as-ceo-departs-real-m-a.html
Two years after failing to secure a
deal,  Big Lots Inc. (BIG)  is once again a potential target of private
equity firms as its chief executive officer retires.  Big Lots, which explored a sale in 2011, lost more than a
third of its market value in the last 10 months as the company
cut forecasts and said CEO Steven Fishman will retire amid a
probe over his stock trades. The seller of discontinued and
overproduced goods is valued at 5.3 times its estimated fiscal
2014 earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization. That’s the cheapest among similar-sized discount
retailers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  With the $1.8 billion company throwing off more cash
relative to its share price than any of its U.S. rivals, Wedbush
Inc. said Big Lots still could tempt private equity firms, given
its low valuation. The stock-sale investigation also could make
investors in Columbus, Ohio-based Big Lots more open to a bid of
at least $40 a share, a 28 percent premium, said shareholder
Centaur Capital Partners LP.  “If someone wanted to make a play for it, now would be the
time,” Zeke Ashton, managing partner at Southlake, Texas-based
Centaur Capital, said in a telephone interview. “The stock is
cheap, there’s a CEO transition going on and there is probably
some shareholder attitude of openness to getting a fair price
because what we have now is a lot of scrutiny regarding the
CEO’s stock purchases.”  Andrew Regrut, Big Lots’s director of investor relations,
didn’t respond to a phone message seeking comment about the
company’s receptiveness to a sale.  Drawing Interest  Big Lots surged in February 2011 when people familiar with
the situation said the company was working with Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. to explore a sale after being approached by Bain
Capital LLC and Thomas H. Lee Partners LP. The Wall Street
Journal reported three months later that Big Lots abandoned the
plan for a sale after bids came in lower than anticipated.  Last week, DealReporter said Big Lots is once again drawing
interest from private equity firms, citing industry bankers that
it didn’t identify, who also said the company didn’t appear to
have begun a formal sale process and hadn’t hired a financial
adviser.  The report of renewed interest comes after Big Lots’s
shares slumped in recent months,  falling  33 percent from their
high last year of $46.81 to $31.15 yesterday. Last year, the
company scaled back sales and profit estimates, shuffled
management and reported revenue  declines  at stores open more
than a year.  Today, Big Lots shares gained 2.2 percent to $31.82, its
highest closing level since Sept. 14.  ‘Reasonable Time’  Big Lots said in December that Fishman, who took over as
CEO in July 2005, would retire as soon as a replacement is
named. The same week, the company said Fishman was under
investigation by the U.S. Justice Department over stock trades
he made, and that he faced an inquiry into the matter by the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  “A change of control or a situation where a company has
been destabilized in that way, those are situations in which a
private equity firm might take another pass at a company that
has put out feelers in the past,” Bill Mann, chief investment
officer of Motley Fool Asset Management LLC, said in a phone
interview from Alexandria, Virginia. His firm oversees $350
million, including Big Lots shares. “It’s a reasonable time for
an LBO firm to look at it and see if they can take it out at a
bargain.”  Cheap Stock  After the decline, Big Lots’s enterprise value yesterday
was 5.3 times its estimated Ebitda for the fiscal year ended
next January, less than half the average multiple of 10.9 among
U.S. mass merchants with a market value between $1 billion and
$20 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It really is cheap,” Joan Storms, a Los Angeles-based
analyst for Wedbush, said in a phone interview. Big Lots is also
attractive for a buyout because it has the cash flow to support
added debt, she said.  The company has a  free cash flow  yield -- a measure of how
much cash from operations a business generates relative to its
share price -- of about 5.5 percent, the highest in the group.  While Big Lots’s revenue is  projected  by analysts to reach
new highs every year through at least fiscal 2017, competition
from so-called dollar stores could cloud its outlook, said
Bradley Thomas, a New York-based analyst at KeyCorp.  Dollar General Corp. (DG) , the largest U.S. dollar-store chain,
operates more than 10,000 U.S. outlets and plans to open another
635 stores this year. Big Lots operates about 1,500 stores in
the U.S.  Muted Outlook  “It’s certainly not an expensive stock, but I think the
outlook for growth and expectation of return on investment is
muted by the business model and the competitive landscape,”
Thomas said. “Retail is a zero-sum game, and it’s tough to go
up against these companies that are opening a lot of stores.”  Big Lots’s  board  probably wouldn’t consider a sale until a
new CEO is named, Motley Fool’s Mann said.  Still, with the stock-sale probe depressing Big Lots’s
valuation, some stockholders might be more willing to accept a
buyout, Centaur Capital’s Ashton said.  “Probably there are some shareholders out there who would
say, ‘Hey, we’re open to having somebody pay us $40 or $42,”
Ashton said.  A deal at $40 a share would equate to a price tag of $2.7
billion, including  net debt .  While the challenges Big Lots faced in the past year have
hurt its stock price, the longer-term outlook and potential for
improvement could make it attractive, Motley Fool’s Mann said.  “You have a situation where there’s uncertainty on a bunch
of different plains, and uncertainty almost definitively causes
the price to go down,” he said. “But there’s nothing about Big
Lots that says it’s an impaired franchise in any way, shape or
form.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in  New York  at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  