-- BlackRock’s Hart Says Loans Offering Bond-Like Yields Compelling
-- B y   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 2013-01-25T19:02:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/blackrock-s-hart-says-loans-offering-bond-like-yields-compelling.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s Leland Hart, who
said loans had long-term value before they  gained  16.3 percent,
still favors the debt for its bond-like returns without the
risk.  Loans are yielding about 6 percent, while the rate paid on
junk bonds has declined to 5.9 percent, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. Investors who previously accepted lower yields for
greater protection “no longer have to trade these benefits,”
Hart said in a report yesterday.  Leveraged loans are attractive because they have low
volatility, less interest-rate risk and offer more protection as
they occupy the highest position in a company’s capital
structure, Hart wrote in the report. Investors poured $690
million into loan funds this week, according to Bank of America
Corp, as junk-bond yields may drop to record lows.  “With the average loan offering a yield to maturity of
approximately 5.5 percent, we think investors are being well
compensated for the low level of risk in credit today,” Hart
wrote in the report.  Hart, who runs the loan team in the leveraged finance group
at the world’s biggest money manager, said in an August 2011
interview on Bloomberg Television that loans provided value even
as prices of the debt dropped by 5.8 percent that month.  Rising Prices  Loan prices  climbed  to 97.74 cents yesterday, the highest
since July 2007, according to the Standard & Poor’s/LSTA
Leveraged Loan 100 Index. The debt returned 10.5 percent last
year.  The floating-rate aspect of loans protect investors from
losing value in a rising interest rate environment because the
total coupon on the debt increases. The Federal Reserve pledged
to hold its target rate near zero through mid-2015. Today, the
three-month London interbank offered rate was set at 0.3
percent, the lowest since August 2011.  Rising interest rates could lead to “significant valuation
losses” for fixed-income investors as U.S. corporate bond
yields decline, Fitch Ratings wrote in a Dec. 19 report.  Leveraged loans are a type of high-yield debt ranked less
than Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and below BBB- by
Standard & Poor’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krista Giovacco in  New York  at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  