-- Blankfein Says Debate on U.K.’s Role in Europe Is ‘Healthy’
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2013-01-25T10:26:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/blankfein-says-debate-on-u-k-s-role-in-europe-is-healthy-.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Chief
Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein said that it’s “healthy”
for the U.K. to debate its membership in the European Union even
though an exit from the bloc wouldn’t be good for the country.  “It would be detrimental to the U.K. to leave the European
Union,” Blankfein, 58, said during a panel discussion at the
 World Economic Forum  in Davos, Switzerland today. “I don’t find
the debate detrimental.”  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s pledge this week to
hold a referendum by the end of 2017 on whether Britain should
stay in the 27-nation union has been viewed by some business
people and economists as a risk to investments because of the
uncertainty it would create. Blankfein, whose company is the
fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, said that he regarded the
U.K.’s role in the EU as a “simmering issue” that needed to be
openly discussed. “I regard that as healthy,” he said.  Blankfein, who took part in a panel discussion on
competitiveness, said he feels the world has overcome a lot of
problems that weighed down markets and economic growth in recent
years.  “We’ve chewed through a lot of the problems and I would
say my investing self tells me that the worst is over by far,”
he said. Still, he urged “caution because this wouldn’t be the
first time that I’ve suggested the worst was over, only to find
out that there was a bit of a relapse.”  Blankfein also responded to a question on the bank’s
decision earlier this month not to postpone bonus payments to
some London-based employees to help them benefit from a lower
 tax rate . The firm decided against the delay after media reports
and criticism of the potential move by politicians and  Bank of
England  Governor  Mervyn King .  “We’re a business that deals with the public, public
opinion is important to us,” he said. “We live in the world
and we have to take account of it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christine Harper  in Davos at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  