-- Boehringer’s Lung Drug’s Benefits Questioned
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 2013-01-25T14:02:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/boehringer-s-lung-drug-s-benefits-questioned.html
Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH’s once-
daily drug for a common  lung disease  may not ease breathing
enough to offer a significant benefit to patients, U.S.
regulators said, as the German drugmaker vies with companies
including  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  to find new therapies.  The medicine, olodaterol, treats chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease, Food and Drug Administration staff said today
in a report ahead of a Jan. 29 meeting of agency advisers. The
medicine also may not provide a significantly meaningful benefit
in helping patients exercise. The FDA found “no major
identified safety concerns,” the staff wrote.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, often caused by
cigarette smoking, is the third-leading cause of death in the
U.S., according to the  National Institutes of Health . London-
based Glaxo and  Theravance Inc. (THRX) , based in South San Francisco,
 California , are developing a similar inhaled medication that
faces an advisory panel on March 7. The drugs would compete with
Novartis AG’s Arcapta Neohaler, approved in 2011.  Olodaterol’s effect on patient breathing was “somewhat
modest,” the FDA staff found after reviewing studies of the
drug. It will be up to the advisory panel to recommend “whether
or not this modest treatment effect in the setting of other
baseline medication is sufficient” to warrant approval, the
report said.  Deaths, heart attacks and other potential side effects
“did not raise any specific or unique safety concerns” in COPD
patients. Studies also found no asthma-related deaths or
increase in problems related to asthma, the FDA staff said.  Striverdi Respimat  Boehringer, the world’s biggest family-owned drugmaker, has
proposed selling the drug in a metered-dose inhaler called
Striverdi Respimat. The company is based in Ingelheim.  Boehringer compared patients who took olodaterol daily and
others who used half a dose of the drug twice a day and found
both improved lung function at a significant and identical rate,
the company said after releasing results of the second of what
are typically three phases of clinical trials.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease is a condition that
includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema. The illness
constricts air flow because the air sacs of the lungs are
damaged or the airways become clogged, according to the NIH.  Boehringer is studying a once-daily combination of
olodaterol and tiotropium. Tiotropium is the active ingredient
in Boehringer and New York-based  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Spiriva, approved
in 2004, that relaxes airway muscles and helps keep them open.  Novartis, based in  Basel , Switzerland, and Glaxo also are
researching combination products for chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease.  Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX)  and  Almirall SA (ALM)  won FDA approval
in July for their Tudorza Pressair, a twice-daily inhaled powder
to treat bronchospasms associated with the disease. New York-
based Forest and Barcelona-based Almirall are studying a
combination involving aclidinium bromide, the active ingredient
in Tudorza.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Larkin in Indianapolis at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  