-- BofA’s Moynihan Sees Growth Ahead as Banks Make More Loans
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   B u n n
-- 2013-01-25T15:34:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/bofa-s-moynihan-sees-growth-ahead-as-banks-seek-to-deploy-funds.html
Bank of America Corp.  Chief
Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said the “underlying
fundamentals” of the U.S. economy are still improving and
bankers have plenty of funds to lend.  Banks have excess liquidity as money sits idle and
borrowers hesitate, Moynihan said today during a panel
discussion at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.
The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based company ranks second by
assets among U.S. lenders.  “The money’s there, and I think it really is going to come
down to the fundamental economy putting more demand in it than
the simple statement” that banks should make more loans,
Moynihan said.  Moynihan, 53, has spent his first three years at the helm
cleaning up after his predecessor’s takeovers of Countrywide
Financial Corp. and Merrill Lynch & Co., divesting more than $60
billion of assets in the process. He also scaled back mortgage
lending to shift resources to servicing overdue borrowers.  “Credit was restricted for a while, but in things like the
mortgage area in the United States it had to be restricted
because this is what helped open the problem up,” Moynihan
said. Lowering mortgage standards isn’t a good idea, he said.  Business Loans  In commercial lending, there has “never been more
competition” to offer loans to middle-market firms, he said.  While central banks have been providing support with low
rates, the more fundamental issue for nations is to regain their
competitiveness, Moynihan said, a sentiment voiced by other
leaders during the session.  “We’ve got to take the burden off our central bankers’
shoulders and really governments and business leaders need to
pick up that slack,”  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  co-CEO Anshu Jain said.  Bank of America told  investors  earlier this month it’s
counting on what it calls “a slow-growth but healthy economy”
for the coming year.  The firm announced an $11.7 billion deal to end disputes
with Fannie Mae on bad home loans this month and joined an $8.5
billion industry settlement of improper foreclosures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net 
Elizabeth Bunn in New York at 
 ebunn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  