-- Brainard Expects ‘Rules of the Game’ to Govern Currencies
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-01-25T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/brainard-expects-rules-of-the-game-to-govern-currencies.html
Lael Brainard, the  U.S. Treasury ’s
top international official, expressed confidence governments
will continue to follow “rules of the game” in  currency
markets , while policy makers elsewhere signal concern that  Japan 
is breaching them.  “I fully expect we’re going to see continued commitment to
the  rules of the game ,” Brainard, the Treasury’s undersecretary
for international affairs, said in an interview yesterday in
Davos, Switzerland. “It’s very important for the smooth
functioning of the system.”  Brainard spoke the same day that Canadian Finance Minister
 Jim Flaherty  joined the list of international policy makers
highlighting a recent plunge in the Japanese yen as a worry. The
Group of Seven major economies traditionally pledge not to
pursue competitive devaluations and to let markets set exchange
rates free of government interference.  While Flaherty said he didn’t think Japan is “violating
the trust” of the G-7, he told Bloomberg Television’s  Erik Schatzker  that he has spoken to Japanese Finance Minister Taro Aso about exchange rates.  ‘Too Quickly’  “I said ‘my concern is that you act too quickly and it
causes international consequences,’” Flaherty said at the  World
Economic Forum ’s annual meeting in Davos.  The yen has weakened about 6 percent since Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe took office last month pushing for more monetary
easing from the  Bank of Japan. (8301)  The currency dropped for an 11th
straight week, the longest losing streak in data compiled by
Bloomberg going back to 1971.  That strategy has led to suspicions in some Asian and
European governments that Abe is actively trying to weaken the
yen to stoke exports.  Japanese Economy Minister Akira Amari will speak in Davos
today, seeking to defuse tensions ahead of a meeting next month
of Group of 20 finance chiefs in Moscow. He said yesterday that
he’ll try to clarify any misunderstanding on Abe’s policies.
Vice Finance Minister Takehiko Nakao said in a Jan. 23 interview
that the country isn’t engaged in a competitive devaluation and
that policies are “aimed at ending persistent deflation.”  “Recent developments toward a weaker yen reflect the yen’s
correction phase from one-sided and excessive gains until last
year,” Nakao said.  Currency Wars  The risk of so-called currency wars, in which trade
partners retaliate to protect their companies in markets, has
been a theme of discussions in Davos this week. German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  told delegates on Jan. 24 that “I
can’t say I’m completely free of worry when I look at Japan
right now.”  Billionaire investor  George Soros  predicted “more
fireworks, more volatility” in foreign-exchange markets after
years of relative stability. Soros said in Davos the extent to
which Japan can push its currency lower will be limited by what
the U.S. is willing to tolerate.  In yesterday’s interview, Brainard also said there is a
“better mood than we’ve seen for some time” in the global
economy, noting the U.S. and emerging Asian economies are
strengthening and that European policy makers have united to
protect their region from a three-year debt crisis.  “There are some encouraging signs,” she said. “But
everyone has experienced some positive Januarys that haven’t
carried on through the rest of the year so we need to keep
working. There remains a lot to be done, in  Europe  and more
broadly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Davos,  Switzerland  at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  