-- Bridgewater’s Dalio Sees ‘Game Changer’ as Money Shifts
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-01-25T16:59:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/bridgewater-s-dalio-sees-game-changer-as-money-shifts.html
Ray Dalio , founder of Bridgewater
Associates LP, the world’s biggest hedge fund, said 2013 will be
a “game changer” for the economy as investors reallocate money
after risks such as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis receded.  “There’s a lot of money in a place that’s getting a very
bad return and in this particular year there’s going to be, in
my opinion, a shift,” Dalio said today at a Bloomberg panel
discussion at the  World Economic Forum  in Davos,  Switzerland .
“The complexion of the world will change as that money goes
from cash into other things. The landscape will change,
particularly later in the year and beyond.”  Global stocks  have rallied 17 percent in the past six
months as the U.S. housing market recovers, European leaders
take steps to contain their debt crisis, and reports in  China 
suggest economic growth is accelerating. Investors from  David
Tepper , who runs the $15 billion hedge fund Appaloosa Management
LP, to  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  co-founder  David Rubenstein  have said
they’re bullish on the  U.S. economy  this year.  U.S. stocks rose today, giving the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index its longest winning streak since 2004. U.S. mutual funds
investing in domestic equities received net deposits for a
second consecutive week, reversing a trend of redemptions over
the past six years, a report showed this week.  ‘Massive Amount’  As investors grow more comfortable with the outlook for the
economy, money will move into stocks and other assets, as well
as into goods and services, Dalio said.  “The shift of that massive amount of cash is what will be
a game changer,” said Dalio, whose Westport, Connecticut-based
firm oversaw $81.3 billion in hedge-fund assets as of Oct. 31.  Central banks will have to be on guard to reduce the supply
of money when spending increases, Dalio said, adding a
successful exit from six years of loose monetary policy is
manageable. Billionaire investor  George Soros  said yesterday
that the U.S. Federal Reserve will have to raise  interest rates 
quickly to contain inflation once the economy shows signs of a
stable recovery.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s unprecedented bond buying
pushed the central bank’s balance sheet to a record $3 trillion,
a report yesterday showed. The Fed is purchasing $85 billion of
securities every month, using the full force of its balance
sheet to stoke the economic recovery.  Dollar Worry  The head of China’s sovereign wealth fund, speaking on the
same panel, said today those policies make him a “little bit
worried” about the dollar.  The  Dollar Index , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, has dropped 4.6 percent in the past six months
and about 8 percent since the end of November 2008, the month
the Fed began quantitative easing. The gauge is weighted 57.6
percent to movements in the euro.  “The printing machine will have to slow down considerably
in order for people to have confidence in the dollar,”  Jin
Liqun , chairman of China Investment Corp., said on the panel,
which was moderated by Bloomberg Television’s Francine Lacqua.
“I have confidence in the resilience of the U.S. economy,” he
said, adding the U.S. can probably achieve 2 percent growth.  Beijing-based CIC was set up to improve returns on the
world’s largest foreign-currency reserves by investing overseas.
China has $3.3 trillion of reserves, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Productivity Key  China’s manufacturing is expanding at the fastest rate in
two years, a report showed yesterday, bolstering prospects that
economic growth will accelerate for a second straight quarter.
The data suggest that China’s expansion at the start of 2013
will equal or exceed its 7.9 percent clip in the fourth quarter.  Dalio said China is in a different part of the economic
cycle than the U.S., and  Europe  will have to contend with social
and political pressures this year. Debate about what drives
economic growth should focus on how countries can raise
productivity, he said.  “The fundamental law is we can’t raise debt faster than
income from now on,” he said. “The discussion now is going to
be about competition and there are clear benchmarks for
competition. Productivity is going to be the question.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  