-- British Airways Owner IAG Jumps on Iberia Outlook: London Mover
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-01-25T16:48:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/british-airways-owner-iag-surges-on-iberia-outlook-london-mover.html
International Consolidated Airlines
Group SA (IAG)  rose for a second day to the highest price since August
2011 as analysts predicted that a reorganization at the Iberia
unit in  Spain  will succeed as the country’s economy improves.  “There is growing confidence management can push through
the restructuring plan at Iberia,” Robin Byde, a London-based
analyst at  Cantor Fitzgerald , said by phone. “Also, as you are
seeing more confidence coming into the Spanish market, the
negative impact on IAG is starting to reverse.”  IAG rose  7.1 percent in the last two days, the biggest two-
day advance since July. The stock closed up 2.1 percent at 223
pence today. More than 8.9 million shares traded, about 67
percent more than the three-month daily average.  In a bid to improve Iberia’s financial performance, IAG has
said it wants to eliminate 4,500 jobs, curtail its fleet and
shutter unprofitable routes. Shares in the London-based company
have gained more than 30 percent since management unveiled the
restructuring plan in November.  “Even if they can achieve just two-thirds of what they
want this year, this will be a terrific turnaround in
earnings,” said Byde, who lists IAG as a preferred stock.
“Shares have a lot further to run,” he said, and could reach
300 pence.  IAG also rose today as David Pitura, an analyst at
JPMorgan, raised his recommendation to overweight from neutral.
The stock “will outperform once Iberia reaches agreement with
unions,” he said, or if cuts are made unilaterally.  IAG’s traffic increased 2.6 percent last year, driven by
British Airways. Passenger traffic, or the number of travelers
carried multiplied by the distance flown, slumped 3.1 percent at
Iberia, the company said on Jan. 7. IAG pared capacity at Iberia
by 3.3 percent last year on weaker demand, while adding 5.4
percent more seats at British Airways.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  