-- Brown Says California Defies Critics as Taxes Aid Rebound
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-01-25T02:28:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/brown-says-california-defies-critics-as-taxes-aid-rebound.html
California, the biggest U.S. state
by population, has defied naysayers and is on the mend after a
decade of fiscal crisis, thanks to voter approval of higher
taxes whose revenue should be guarded with discipline, Governor
 Jerry Brown  said.  Brown, a 74-year-old Democrat making his 11th State of the
State speech yesterday, urged lawmakers to hold down spending as
the new revenue flows in, while pressing to overhaul education
aid, ease environmental regulations, build a high-speed rail
line and add a $14 billion water-tunnel system.  Brown, who was governor from 1975 to 1983, won office again
in 2010 on a pledge to repair the crippled finances that plagued
the world’s ninth-largest economy. California racked up $213
billion in projected shortfalls over the previous 12 years.  “California has once again confounded our critics,” he
told a joint session of the legislature. “We have wrought in
just two years a solid and enduring budget. And, by God, we will
persevere and keep it that way for years to come.”  Brown persuaded voters in November to approve the highest
statewide  sales tax  in the U.S., at 7.5 percent, and to boost
levies on income starting at $250,000 -- reaching 13.3 percent
on those making $1 million or more, the most of any state. That
measure, known as Proposition 30, will raise $6 billion annually
for seven years.  The tax boost, combined with spending cuts, means the state
will end the next fiscal year with an $851 million surplus, the
first in a decade, according to the governor’s budget.  Restraint Urged  Some Democrats say they want to use the additional money to
restore funding that was cut in the last five years because of
shortfalls. Brown urged restraint, saying lawmakers need to
focus on repaying a $35 billion “wall of debt” that
accumulated in the last decade as money from various state funds
was diverted to cover deficits.  “Fiscal discipline is not the enemy of our good
intentions, but the basis for realizing them,” Brown said. “We
have promises to keep. And the most important is the one we made
to the voters if Proposition 30 passed: that we would guard
jealously the money temporarily made available.”  “This means living within our means and not spending what
we don’t have,” he said.  Brown said he wants to change how  California  doles out
money for education and eliminate many spending mandates, such
as one that requires schools to reduce class sizes. He has
proposed changing formulas used to calculate how much each
school gets, so that low-income districts receive more, and to
improve the education of poor children learning English.  ‘Overly Complex’  “We have a funding system that is overly complex,
bureaucratically driven and deeply inequitable,” Brown said.
“That is the state of affairs today.”  The governor said a $68 billion high-speed passenger system
“is the future” of the state, though federal funding remains
in question and polls have shown waning public support.  He said the state must also spend $14 billion to build a
pair of tunnels 40 miles (64 kilometers) long to divert Northern
California water to  Southern California . That plan promises to
reopen a long-simmering dispute between northern Californians
and those in the more populous south, much of which is semi-
desert.  Voters rejected a similar proposal to share water from the
Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta in 1982.  Regulatory Changes  Brown called for changes in the California Environmental
Quality Act, which requires extensive environmental-impact
reports intended to identify how a project might affect air and
water quality or harm plant and animal habitats. Business groups
and Republicans say the law is often abused by activists to try
to derail development plans they oppose.  “While it has been encouraging to see the governor and the
majority party talk about how over-regulation is hurting jobs,
now is the time for us to finally begin moving in the right
direction,” said the Assembly Republican leader,  Connie Conway 
of Tulare. “I’m hopeful that we can work across party lines
this year to pass reforms.”  Republicans are in a weaker position than in previous
years, since Democrats control both chambers of the Legislature
with two-thirds majorities. It’s the first time either party
held a veto-proof “super majority” since 1933.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  