-- California Alleges 2 Clothing Firms Used Pirated Software
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-01-25T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/california-alleges-2-clothing-firms-used-pirated-software.html
California Attorney General Kamala Harris accused two foreign apparel makers in lawsuits of gaining
an unfair competitive advantage over American companies by using
pirated software in clothing production.  Harris, in a state court complaint filed yesterday in Los
Angeles, said Pratibha Syntex Ltd. of India and Ningbo Beyond
Home Textile Co. Ltd. of China violated California’s unfair
competition law by failing to pay licensing fees for software
manufactured by companies including  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Adobe
Systems Inc. (ADBE)  and  Symantec Corp. (SYMC)   The unpaid fees gave Pratibha Syntex and Ningbo Beyond Home
Textile a “significant cost advantage in the low-margin
business of apparel manufacturing,” Harris said in an e-mailed
statement. The suits target companies whose “unlawful actions
are eroding California’s garment industry and placing California
companies who legally pay for computer software at a
disadvantage.”  Since 2010, units of Ningbo have shipped approximately
713,000 pounds of apparel products into California, while
Pratibha has shipped more than 19,000 pounds into the state,
according to the statement.  California’s apparel manufacturers, which are largely based
in Los Angeles County, employed more than 580,000 people last
year and generated more than $5 billion in annual revenue since
1990, according to the statement.  Representatives of Pratibha Syntex and Ningbo Beyond Home
Textile didn’t immediately respond to e-mails yesterday seeking
comment on the complaints.  The cases are  California  v. Ningbo Beyond Home Textile Co.,
BC499771, and California v. Pratibha Syntex Ltd., BC499751,
California Superior Court, County of Los Angeles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  