-- Cameron Gamble on EU Seen Threatening U.K. Recovery
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-01-25T10:34:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/cameron-gamble-on-eu-seen-threatening-u-k-recovery.html
David Cameron ’s pledge to hold a
referendum on Britain leaving the European Union may damage
investment and jeopardize an economy facing an unprecedented
triple-dip recession, executives and economists said.  The prime minister, who announced the plan for a vote by
the end of 2017 in a speech in London two days ago, yesterday
defended his move at the  World Economic Forum  in Davos,
 Switzerland , saying it won’t undermine the country’s appeal for
global investors.  “The prospect of an EU in-out referendum will have a
chilling effect on investment in the U.K.,”  Adam Posen , a
former  Bank of England  policy maker, said by e-mail from Davos.
“If people thought Greek risk hung uncertainty on the euro area
or the fiscal cliff risk clouded the U.S. investment climate,
this will be every bit as bad for the U.K. To stretch it out
until 2017 is madness.”  Cameron said that, if he wins the 2015 general election,
he’ll seek to renegotiate membership of the EU before putting it
to a popular vote. The move, which was criticized by  Germany ,
 France , the U.S., and Cameron’s Liberal Democrat deputy,  Nick Clegg , marks an attempt to solve a three-decade predicament that
has haunted Conservative Party leaders.  Triple Dip  Confidence in the U.K. economy is being damaged by a fiscal
squeeze that’s denting demand at home while exports are
suffering from the crisis in the euro area, Britain’s main
trading partner. The fragile recovery is also under question as
the contraction in the fourth quarter of 2012 could pave the way
for its first ever triple-dip recession.  Data today showed that  gross domestic product  dropped 0.3
percent in the quarter from the three months through September,
according to the  Office for National Statistics . That compares
with the median of 38 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey for a
decline of 0.1 percent.  The prospect of a referendum is adding to an already
difficult business climate, according to  Martin Sorrell , chief
executive officer of London-based  WPP Plc (WPP) , the world’s largest
advertising and marketing company.  “It can’t be positive,” Sorrell told a panel in Davos
earlier this week. Cameron “just added another reason why
people are going to postpone investment decisions and the last
thing we need is people postponing them. There’s a lot of
uncertainty.”  About 3 million U.K. jobs rely on trade with other EU
countries, according to British government estimates. Cameron
said yesterday the U.K. remains attractive to investors.  ‘Excellent Things’  “The arguments for investing in the U.K. are the same,
we’re part of that single market, we have very low tax rates, we
have a very competitive  labor force , we have all sorts of
excellent things like our brilliant universities, the English
language and the time zone that is so central to the world,”
Cameron said in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s
Francine Lacqua in Davos. “On top of that, we have a plan for
making Europe more competitive, open and flexible and securing
Britain’s place within it.”  Half of Britain’s exports go to the EU, and 38 percent of
services exports went to the bloc in the first three quarters of
last year, according to Citigroup Inc. Exports account for 15
percent of U.K. GDP while the rest of the EU relies on trade
with Britain for just 2.5 percent of GDP.  ‘Favorable Terms’  “The uncertainty is likely to make it harder to attract
inward investment, and may even prompt U.K. firms to expand
operations in other EU countries rather than domestically,”
Barclays Research said in a briefing note. “If the government
were able to persuade companies that the U.K.’s future lies
within the EU, and on more favorable terms, the harm might be
kept to a minimum.”  While it’s “healthy” for the U.K. to debate its EU
membership, an exit from the bloc would be “detrimental,”
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  CEO Lloyd C. Blankfein said during a
panel discussion in Davos today.  A poll by  Populus Ltd.  for the  Times newspaper  found 40
percent in favor of leaving the EU and 37 percent against, with
the remainder saying they didn’t know how they would vote in a
referendum. The company surveyed 2,024 people on Jan. 23 and
Jan. 24. No margin of error was given.  Auto Exports  Among the largest investors in the U.K. are automakers
including  General Motors Co. (GM) ,  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) ,  Nissan Motor Co.
Ltd. (7201) , Toyota Motor Corp. and Honda Motor Co. Ltd., which gain
tariff-free access to the EU market of 500 million people. About
80 percent of the 1.5 million vehicles made in the U.K. are sold
overseas, the majority of them to the EU, according to the
 Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders .  Companies that import vehicles from outside the EU
currently face tariffs of between 4 and 10 percent for vehicles
and as much as 4.7 percent for parts, the European Commission in
Brussels said.  Clegg, Cameron’s coalition partner, said the prime
minister’s proposal was motivated by “intense internal
discussions” in the  Conservative Party  and warned that the lack
of clarity for business as a result of the referendum will
stifle growth.  ‘Completely Vague’  “I simply don’t understand the point of spending years and
years and years tying yourself up in knots, so-called
renegotiating the terms of Britain’s membership in ways that at
the moment at least are completely vague,” he said on his
weekly phone-in show on London’s LBC radio yesterday. “I think
that discourages investment and inhibits growth and jobs which
has to remain our absolute priority.”  The opposition  Labour Party , which rejects a referendum on
the terms set out by Cameron, also warned of the effect on
investment.  “The prime minister can’t tell the public how he will
vote, he can’t tell investors whether the U.K. will be part of
the world’s largest single market in four years time and he
can’t be clear on what it is people would be choosing between
staying in or leaving,” Labour’s foreign-affairs spokesman,
 Douglas Alexander , said in an e-mailed statement. “Uncertainty
is the enemy of investment and the prime minister’s approach has
created a lot more uncertainty.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  