-- Canada Dollar Falls to 6-Month Low as CPI Drop Exceeds
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-01-25T22:13:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/canadian-dollar-falls-to-6-month-low-before-price-data.html
The Canadian dollar fell to the
lowest level against its U.S. peer in almost six months after a
report showed consumer prices declined more than forecast last
month as growth cools in the world’s 11th largest economy.  The currency dropped for a third day against the greenback
and the majority of its most-traded peers as  Canada ’s inflation
rate declined 0.6 percent in December, compared with a 0.2
percent drop forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. The  Bank of
Canada  trimmed its growth forecasts for the year and said
interest rate increases were less urgent on Jan. 23.  “We expected the numbers to be soft, but they fell even
lower than expected,” said  David Watt , chief economist at the
Canadian unit in Toronto of HSBC Holdings Plc. “Canadian
inflation is lingering near the lower part of the Bank of Canada
target band and that provides more confirmation that Bank of
Canada will not be raising  interest rates  anytime soon.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, fell 0.3 percent to
C$1.0058 per  U.S. dollar  at 5:04 p.m. in Toronto, after touching
the weakest level since July 27. One loonie buys 99.42 cents.  The Canadian dollar posted the biggest decline versus its
peers this week, with a 1.7 percent drop in the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which tracks the currencies of 10-
developed nations. The euro has gained 1 percent and the
greenback has dropped 0.2 percent.  Price Swings  The loonie’s 14-day relative strength index against the
U.S. dollar reached 26.1, below the 30 level that some traders
see as sign that an asset may be about to reverse direction.  Futures for crude oil, Canada’s largest export, fell 0.1
percent to $96.03 per barrel and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
rose 0.5 percent.  The country’s benchmark  10-year bonds  fell, with yields
rising six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 1.95
percent. The 2.75 percent security maturing in June 2022 lost 52
cents to C$106.83.  The Bank of Canada will auction C$2.9 billion ($2.87
billion) of 10-year notes maturing June 2023 with a 1.5 percent
coupon on Jan. 30.  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said today the
country’s currency will continue to face pressure to appreciate.  “The pressure on the Canadian dollar is going to be on the
upside over time,” Flaherty said in an interview with BNN
Television from Davos,  Switzerland . “I’m not terribly concerned
about the Canadian dollar.”  Price Changes  Canada’s annual inflation rate held at a three-year low of
0.8 percent in December, keeping it below the bottom of the
central bank’s target band, as food and shelter costs moderated.
The core CPI, which excludes eight volatile products, slowed to
1.1 percent from a year earlier from 1.2 percent, the slowest
since February 2011.  “Inflation was much, much lower than expected,” said
 Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at  Toronto-Dominion
Bank (TD) , by phone from Toronto. “Given that we’re an inflation-
targeting central bank, there’s very little reason to be looking
to push rates up. It kind of suggests, as they indicated, low
for longer is the trend.”  Options traders are the most bearish on the Canadian dollar
in two months. The three-month so-called 25-delta risk reversal
rate, which measures the premium charged for the right to buy
the U.S. dollar against the loonie versus contracts to sell,
traded as high as 1.1 percentage point, the most since Nov. 15.
It averaged 1.5 percentage points during the past 12 months.  “Dollar-Canada is searching for a new range,” said  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange at  National Bank of
Canada (NA)  by phone from Toronto. “Canada has been held up in the
past on the inference the Bank of Canada would be the first out
of the G-7 block to raise rates. Governor  Mark Carney  put an end
to that speculation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  