-- Canadian Inflation Rate Remains at Three-Year Low in December
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-01-25T13:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/canadian-inflation-rate-remains-at-three-year-low-in-december.html
Canada ’s  inflation rate  held at a
three-year low in December, keeping it below the bottom of the
central bank’s target band, as food and shelter costs moderated.  The  consumer price index  advanced 0.8 percent in December
from a year earlier, matching the November increase, Statistics
Canada said today from Ottawa. The  core  rate, which excludes
eight volatile products, fell to 1.1 percent from 1.2 percent,
the slowest since February 2011. Economists said both measures
would accelerate, with surveys showing median forecasts of 1.2
percent overall inflation and a 1.4 percent core rate.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said two days ago a
boost to his 1 percent policy interest rate is “less imminent”
because inflation has been slower than forecast and will remain
below his 2 percent target through the first half of next year.
The central bank said the consumer price index would increase an
average 1.1 percent in the October-December period and 0.9
percent in the first quarter of this year.  Food inflation slowed to a 1.5 percent year-over-year pace
in December from 1.7 percent in November, as fresh vegetables
declined 5.8 percent,  Statistics Canada  said today.  There was a “slightly deflationary environment” in food
prices near the end of last year, Empire Co. Chief Executive
Officer Paul Sobey said on a Dec. 13 earnings call. Empire
controls the Sobeys grocery-store chain.  Prices in the shelter category advanced 0.6 percent, slower
than November’s 1 percent pace, as mortgage interest costs
dropped 3.6 percent.  Governor Carney two days ago said signs that consumers are
stabilizing debt loads that have reached a record 165 percent of
disposable income are another reason to delay raising  interest
rates .  “The more muted inflation outlook and the beginnings of a
more constructive evolution of imbalances in the household
sector suggest that the timing of any such withdrawal is less
imminent than previously anticipated,” Carney, 47, said at a
Jan. 23 press conference in Ottawa. The central bank’s benchmark
interest rate has been 1 percent since September 2010, the
longest pause since the 1950s.  The  Bank of Canada  pared its forecast for economic growth
this year to 2 percent from an October prediction of 2.3
percent. The economy will reach full output in the second half
of 2014 instead of the end of 2013, the bank said, as growth
accelerates to 2.7 percent next year.  On a monthly basis, overall  inflation  and the core rate
both fell 0.6 percent in December. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg predicted both measures would fall by 0.2 percent. The
decline in the core rate was the largest since June 2011.  Seasonally adjusted inflation fell 0.1 percent in December
from November and seasonally adjusted core inflation rose 0.1
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  