-- Canada to Look ‘Carefully’ at Lenovo-RIM Deal: Flaherty
-- B y   A n d r e w   J .   B a r d e n
-- 2013-01-25T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/canada-would-look-carefully-at-lenovo-rim-deal-flaherty-says.html
Canada would closely examine any
proposal for a tie-up between Chinese computer-maker  Lenovo (992) 
Group Ltd. and BlackBerry-maker Research in Motion Ltd., Finance
Minister  Jim Flaherty  said.  “It’s something that we would look carefully at,” he said
in an interview at the World Economic Forum’s annual meeting in
Davos, Switzerland yesterday. He also said “absolutely” when
asked whether some local technologies are off limits to
potential overseas buyers.  RIM (RIM) , Canada’s largest-listed technology company, rose to
the highest in more than a year in Toronto trading on Jan. 24
after Beijing-based Lenovo said it was considering a bid among
other options for expanding its mobile-devices business. RIM has
said it’s assessing strategic options after losing market share
to Apple Inc. and Samsung Electronics.  Canada has previously blocked foreign takeovers of local
companies because of security issues. In 2008, it vetoed a
C$1.33 billion ($1.32 billion) bid from U.S.-based  Alliant
Techsystems Inc. (ATK)  for MacDonald Dettwiler & Associates Ltd.’s
satellite business. Cnooc Ltd., received approval from the
Canadian government for a $15.1 billion acquisition of  Nexen
Inc. (NXY) , the biggest takeover by a Chinese company, in December.  “We always look at foreign investment in Canada as a cause
for reflection,” Flaherty said in the interview with Bloomberg
Television’s  Erik Schatzker . “We have to look at intelligence
concerns.”  Lenovo, which bought International Business Machines
Corp.’s PC unit in 2005, is considering acquisitions as
competition from tablets hampers profit growth. The computer
maker has also introduced new products including smartphones.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  