-- Catholic Church Birth-Control Suit Thrown Out by Judge
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-01-25T22:20:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/catholic-church-birth-control-suit-thrown-out-by-judge.html
A Catholic Church challenge to the
 birth-control  mandate in the Obama administration’s health-care
overhaul was thrown out by a federal judge who said it’s too
early to hear the lawsuit.  Regulations governing the provision of birth control in the
law are likely to be supplanted by new rules, making it
premature to decide the case now, U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jackson in  Washington  decided today in a case filed by the
 Archdiocese of Washington  and four other Catholic nonprofit
groups.  “If after the new regulations are issued, plaintiffs are
still not satisfied, any challenges that they choose to bring
will be substantially different from the challenges in the
current complaint,” Jackson wrote.  The Affordable Care Act requires that employer-supplied
health-care plans cover contraception. The archdiocese and 42
other Catholic organizations, including the University of  Notre
Dame  and the  Catholic University  of America, filed lawsuits last
year arguing that the mandate violates freedom of religion
guaranteed in the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution.  Chieko Noguchi, a spokeswoman for the archdiocese, didn’t
immediately respond to phone and e-mail requests for comment on
the ruling.  Religious Concerns  The Obama administration has attempted to satisfy the
concerns of religious-affiliated groups by requiring insurers to
pay for the contraceptive component of employee coverage.  On Jan. 15, the U.S. said it will appeal a temporary court
order won by a Bible publisher, Tyndale House Publishers Inc.,
of Carol Stream,  Illinois , blocking the contraceptive coverage
requirement.  In September, the government asked the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  in Denver to reverse a similar ruling involving a
Catholic-owned heating and air conditioning equipment company.  In today’s ruling, Jackson said the plaintiffs are
protected by a temporary safe-harbor clause in the current
coverage requirement.  Jackson cited a government brief “that the defendants will
finalize amendments to the regulations in an effort to
accommodate religious organizations with religious objections to
contraceptive coverage before the rolling expiration of the safe
harbor begins in August 2013.”  The case is Roman Catholic Archbishop of Washington v.
Sebelius, 12-cv-0815, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  