-- China Names Minmetals’ Xu Siwei as Vice President at Sinosteel
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-25T09:36:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/china-names-minmetals-xu-siwei-as-vice-president-at-sinosteel.html
China ’s state-owned asset regulator
named Xu Siwei as vice president of Sinosteel Corp., replacing
Zhang Hanguang. Xu, who was also appointed to the position of
the Communist Party’s top representative in the company, was
previously  vice president  of China Minmetals Corp.  Xu was appointed yesterday by the State-owned Assets
Supervision and Administration Commission during a meeting of
Sinosteel executives, the company said today on its  website . The
statement didn’t say why Zhang was replaced.  Sinosteel and China Minmetals have transformed themselves
into mine owners from being among China’s top three steel
traders as the country’s demand for iron ore and copper surges.
Sinosteel bought Australian iron ore miner Midwest Corp. for
A$1.4 billion ($1.5 billion) in 2008 and has a stake in Rio
Tinto Group’s Channar ore mine in the nation’s Pilbara region.  “There’s been a lot of speculation that Sinosteel is
making huge losses, resulting from its aggressive expansion,”
said Xu Zhongbo, chief executive officer of Beijing Metal
Consulting Ltd., before the announcement. “Minmetals, which
took a similar growth path, is doing a little better.”  Li Kejie, a spokesman at Sinosteel, couldn’t be reached for
comment in three calls to his mobile phone today.  Minmetals rejected a merger with Sinosteel because its
assets were “excessively poor,” the 21st Century Business
Herald reported Jan. 18, citing a person it didn’t identify.
China’s  Sinochem Group  and Sinosteel are in “early stages” of
merger talks, the report said. Sinosteel denied it’s in talks
with Sinochem in a statement last week.  He Jinglin, a media official at Minmetals, declined to
comment.  Corporate Governance  Minmetals posted a pretax profit of 8 billion yuan ($1.3
billion) on sales of 325 billion yuan last year, according to
its  website . It was listed among 46 Chinese state-run companies
recognized for corporate management by SASAC in 2011. In
contrast, Sinosteel was accused of inflating sales at its units,
the National Audit Office said in a 2011 statement. The company
didn’t respond to the allegation.  Sinosteel’s sales gained 12 percent to 186 billion  yuan  in
2010, compared with 61 billion yuan in  2006 , according to the
latest figures available on its website and from the government.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  