-- China Warns ‘Hot Money’ Inflows Possible on Easing From Abroad
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-25T05:13:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/china-warns-hot-money-inflows-possible-on-easing-from-abroad.html
China ’s foreign-exchange regulator
renewed concerns that the nation will see fresh speculative
inflows of money after the U.S. and Japanese central banks said
they would pump more funds into their financial systems.  “The policies in major economies of monetary easing and
low interest rates will boost global liquidity, increase risk
preferences in the market and drive speculative funds into
China,” the  State Administration of Foreign Exchange  said in a
statement on its website today. A large amount of so-called
“hot money” inflows is possible, “but there are many
uncertain factors,” SAFE said.  The SAFE statement didn’t name the U.S. or  Japan , which
over the past two months expanded asset-purchase programs and
maintained near-zero  interest rates  designed to stoke growth.
Capital inflows and an economic rebound in China could fuel
inflation and asset bubbles after former central bank adviser
Fan Gang said this week that overheating risks may resurface
this year.  “Concerns of a hard landing in China are gone and so are
 yuan  depreciation expectations,” said Xie Dongming, a China
economist at Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. in  Singapore . “At
the same time, hot money inflows can’t be very large as China’s
property market is virtually closed to foreign money.”  The concerns echo Chinese statements following the U.S.
 Federal Reserve ’s November 2010 decision to start a second round
of large-scale asset purchases. China at the time stepped up
efforts to curb inflows, and People’s Bank of Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said that loose policies in developed economies may
spark the movement of cash into the nation.  Rising Yuan  SAFE said foreign-exchange investors are betting on the
yuan to rise further. The currency strengthened 1 percent last
year against the dollar, the least in three years.  The PBOC set today’s daily yuan exchange-rate fixing at the
lowest level since Jan. 9, spurring speculation that China is
seeking to cap gains as a slide in the yen makes Japanese
exports more competitive. The currency weakened less than 0.1
percent to 6.2202 per dollar as of 12:35 p.m. in  Shanghai .  The yen’s 9 percent fall against the dollar in the last two
months, the most among 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg,
has caused friction with trading partners and highlighted the
risk of retaliatory action as the Group of 20 prepares to meet
next month.  Forces working against hot-money inflows including China’s
focus on boosting domestic demand and encouraging companies to
invest abroad, “which will further contribute to balanced trade
and investment,” SAFE said. The agency also cited a weak global
economy, an evolving sovereign-debt crisis and geopolitical
conflicts, “which may lead to big swings in China’s cross-
border capital flows.”  Economists at banks including Credit Agricole CIB and Daiwa
 Capital Markets  are expecting the PBOC to increase benchmark
interest rates in the second half, according to a Bloomberg News
survey this month.  --Zhou Xin. Editors: Scott Lanman, Paul Panckhurst  To contact the reporter on this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  