-- China Media Hail Li Na as Resurgent Champion at Australian Open
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-25T02:28:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/china-media-hail-li-na-as-resurgent-champion-at-australian-open.html
Li Na , who became the first Chinese
tennis player to win a Grand Slam singles title, was hailed by
local media as a resurgent champion after she advanced to the
final of the Australian Open yesterday.  “After 600 days of waiting, the victor has returned,” the
official Xinhua News Agency  said  yesterday, referring to the
time that’s passed since her 2011  French Open  victory. “She’s
back,” the  China Daily  declared of Li, whose picture also
appeared on the front page of today’s People’s Daily, the
official newspaper of the Communist Party.  Li’s French Open title was followed by endorsement
agreements with Daimler AG, Taikang Life Insurance Co. and other
companies seeking to win Chinese consumers by linking their
products with the 30-year-old native of Hubei Province. Retail
sales in China, the world’s second-biggest economy, surged 14.3
percent last year.  “There is a lot of national pride in China and sports
events are one of the best ways to project China’s image as a
superpower on a world stage,” said Ben Cavender, a Shanghai-
based analyst at China Market Research Group.  The sixth-seeded Li defeated  Maria Sharapova  6-2, 6-2 in
Melbourne yesterday. Li lost in the 2011 Australian Open final
to  Kim Clijsters  of Belgium, before going on to win her first
Grand Slam title at the French Open. Li will face defending
champion  Victoria Azarenka , the top seed, tomorrow.  China Central Television’s  sports channel  plans to
broadcast tomorrow’s final and bars in Shanghai and Beijing
advertised that they would show the match. Li’s 2011 French Open
final match was watched by 116 million viewers in China.  Finals Run  The state-run Global Times newspaper said Li’s run to the
final had rekindled “the expectations of millions of fans back
home through her success in one of the world’s most popular
commercial games and her charismatic performance.”  Xinhua credited Li’s win yesterday to tough training with
her coach,  Carlos Rodriguez , adding that Li is much more
experienced and calm this year.  “Being emotional used to make her performance unstable on
court,” People’s Daily said in a commentary today. That’s
changed, and now “rivals cannot read any information from her
face” during important points, the commentary said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Wadhams at 
 nwadhams@bloomberg.net  