-- Cinemark Magistrate Urges Dismissal of Death Claims
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-01-25T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/cinemark-magistrate-urges-dismissal-of-death-claims.html
Cinemark Holdings Inc. (CNK)  shouldn’t
face civil claims for wrongful death over the July shooting
rampage at its theater in Aurora,  Colorado , that left 12 people
dead, a federal magistrate judge said.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Michael E. Hegarty in Denver said
yesterday in a recommendation to a district court judge that
while Cinemark may be found liable as a landowner under state
law, the claims filed on behalf of victims for negligence and
wrongful death should be dismissed.  U.S. District Judge R. Brooke Jackson, who is overseeing
the case, consolidated seven suits against Cinemark set for
trial in 2014 over allegations that it failed to take security
precautions before the July 20 shootings.  This month, the arraignment of alleged gunman James Holmes,
accused of first-degree murder, was delayed until March 12
because defense lawyers told Arapahoe County District Court
Judge William Sylvester that they need more time to determine an
appropriate plea.  Sylvester ruled Jan. 10 that the government established
probable cause that Holmes committed the crimes he’s accused of
and must face trial. Holmes, who studied neuroscience at the
 University of Colorado , Denver, is charged with 166 counts,
including murder and attempted murder. He may face the death
penalty if convicted of first-degree murder.  Previous Disturbances  The victims’ civil case is based on claims that Cinemark is
liable because it had information about previous disturbances at
the theater, including shootings, robberies and assaults.  Hegarty wrote yesterday that Cinemark’s attempts to dismiss
all claims under the Colorado Premises Liability Act is
“improper” before the two sides have exchanged information.  The extent of Cinemark’s knowledge in this case “has yet
to be explored,” Hegarty wrote yesterday. “Discovery may
reveal that other more serious crimes had occurred at or near
the theater and that the defendant had knowledge of such
crimes.”  Hegarty dismissed the negligence and wrongful death claims
because the plaintiffs failed to argue the injuries and deaths
were caused by a “condition of the property or by activities
conducted” on it, according to the filing.  Christina M. Habas, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, didn’t
return a call after regular business hours yesterday seeking
comment on the filing.  James Meredith, a spokesman for Plano, Texas-based
Cinemark, didn’t immediately return a call after regular
business hours seeking comment.  The federal cases being consolidated include Nowlan v.
Cinemark USA Inc., 12-cv-02517, and Traynom v. Cinemark USA Inc.
12-cv-02514, U.S. District Court, District of Colorado (Denver).
The criminal case is People v. Holmes, 12-cr-01522, 18th
Judicial District Court, Colorado (Centennial).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco 
at   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 