-- Colombian Peso Posts Weekly Drop on Intervention Speculation
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2013-01-25T21:44:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/colombian-bonds-fall-for-first-time-in-six-days-peso-advances.html
Colombia  peso posted its biggest
weekly drop since October on speculation the central bank will
increase dollar purchases to ease gains in the local currency.  The peso dropped 0.6 percent this week, the biggest decline
since the period ended Oct. 26. It was little changed at
1,779.90 per  U.S. dollar  at the close of trading in Bogota.  The Colombian currency jumped to a 17-month high on Jan. 2,
sparking comments from policy makers including Finance Minister
 Mauricio Cardenas  who said Jan. 17 that Colombia will use “all
its ammunition” to curb gains that are making the nation’s
coffee, flower and banana exporters less competitive. Central
Bank Governor Jose Dario Uribe reiterated on RCN Radio on Jan.
15 that the bank will buy a minimum of $20 million a day through
at least the first quarter to curb the advance.  “The government has made it clear if feels uncomfortable
with the strong peso,” Daniel Escobar, the head analyst at
Global Securities in Bogota, said by telephone.  He forecasts the central bank will announce an increase in
daily purchases to an average $40 million a day from about $28
million, when policy makers next meet on Jan. 28 for the monthly
monetary policy meeting.  Banco de la Republica  will lower its overnight lending rate
by a quarter-percentage point next week to 4 percent, according
to 31 of 33 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The other two
expect policy makers to keep borrowing costs unchanged.  Colombia will lower the benchmark rate to 3.75 percent by
February, Morgan Stanley economist  Daniel Volberg  wrote in a
report today. The central bank “may be ready to also cut rates
as an antidote to currency strength,” he wrote.  Bond Yields  Yields on local bonds due July 2024 have tumbled 43 basis
points, or 0.43 percentage point, in January in what would be
their eighth monthly drop on speculation for lower rates and
bets of increased demand from overseas investors after the
government lowered a bond tax.  The government cut taxes on overseas investors’ earnings
from domestic securities to 14 percent from 33 percent as of
Jan. 1 to help boost demand and reduce borrowing costs.  The yield on the 10 percent peso-denominated debt due in
2024 fell three basis points today to 5.23 percent, the lowest
close since the securities were first issued in 2009, according
to the central bank.  Colombia will attract a potential $6 billion from abroad
into the domestic  debt market  following the change in the levy,
Morgan Stanley said in a separate report. The yield on the 2024
bond will fall to 4.6 percent at the end of the first quarter,
according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  