-- Compuware Rejects Elliott Management Buyout Offer: Detroit Mover
-- B y   K a r l   B a k e r
-- 2013-01-25T21:42:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/compuware-rejects-elliott-management-buyout-offer-detroit-mover.html
Compuware Corp. (CPWR) , the business-
software maker, advanced to the highest price since April 2011
after rebuffing a buyout offer from Elliott Management Corp. and
announcing its first-ever dividend.  The shares rose 7.5 percent to $11.57 at the close in  New
York , the highest price since April 2011. The stock has gained
21 percent since Elliott offered to buy the Detroit-based
company on Dec. 17, compared with a 6 percent rise in the Nasdaq
Composite Index in the same period.  Elliott Management’s offer of $11 a share significantly
undervalues the company, Bob Paul, chief executive officer of
Compuware, said in a statement today. Compuware is cutting
annual costs by $60 million, initiating a dividend and spinning
off its remaining Covisint shares to deliver “meaningful
value” for shareholders, he said.  “The plans outlined today are a step in the right
direction,” Kirk Materne, analyst at  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) ,
said in a note. Compuware’s announcement indicates it is
“leaving the door open” for headcount reductions and other
potential divestitures, said Materne, who rates the stock
overweight with a $13 price target.  Elliott Management, which owned 6.7 percent of Compuware as
of Jan. 14, said it’s still interested in the company, which had
a market value of $2.3 billion before today’s share rally.  “Compuware has granted our request for access to diligence
to confirm an offer for the Company,” Jesse Cohn, portfolio
manager at Elliott Management, said in an e-mailed statement.
“We remain very interested in the company.”  Cloud Computing  When it first offered to buy Compuware in December, Elliott
Management said the company’s “execution, profitability and
growth” had underperformed.  Compuware, which sells collaboration and project management
tools, as well as performance management technology for cloud
and mobile services, said it’s being advised by Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and Allen & Co.  Compuware is slowing down its expansion into cloud-
computing services, enabling the return of cash to shareholders,
said Jim Yin, an analyst at  Standard & Poor’s .  “The success in cloud services is modest at best,” said
Yin, who rates the stock at hold with an $11 price target.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Baker in New York at 
 kbaker30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  