-- Con Edison Seeks to Raise Power Rates, Plans Storm Spending
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2013-01-25T21:22:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/con-edison-seeks-to-raise-power-rates-plans-storm-spending-1-.html
Consolidated Edison Inc. (ED) , owner of
the utility that supplies power to  New York City , asked state
regulators to approve rate increases to help fund $1 billion in
investments to protect the power network after  Hurricane Sandy .  Under a proposal submitted to the New York Public Service
Commission today, the average electricity bill would increase
3.3 percent, according to a company statement. Con Edison plans
to spend $1 billion through 2016 on measures including flood-
proofing equipment in low-lying areas, burying  power lines  and
building higher flood walls around substations to avoid a repeat
of damage caused by Sandy’s winds and record 14-foot (4.3-meter)
tides.  “The increased frequency and damage of storms assaulting
our area presents a major challenge,” Craig S. Ivey, president
of Con Edison’s utility, said in the statement. “We must invest
in our systems in new ways to maintain the safe, reliable
service our customers deserve.”  Hurricane Sandy caused the worst damage in Con Edison’s
120-year history, felling thousands of power lines, breaching
flood barriers and inundating electric facilities and generating
stations.  New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo , a Democrat, convened a so-
called Moreland Commission to investigate utilities’
preparedness for the storm, which knocked out power to more than
2 million homes and businesses in New York, some for as long as
21 days.  Network Weaknesses  Con Edison’s proposed infrastructure upgrades would bolster
some of the network weaknesses exposed by the disaster. The
utility would spend $240 million protecting 13 substations in
flood-prone zones against water damage.  “Our system wasn’t high enough,” John Miksad, Con
Edison’s senior vice president for electrical operations, said
in a Dec. 18 phone interview. “I don’t think anybody expected
14-foot tides. That was the thing that really hit us in the
city,  Manhattan  and coastal areas like  Staten Island ,  Brooklyn 
and Queens.”  Con Edison plans to spend $200 million moving more lines
underground. Burying all 35,000 miles of overhead wire in the
utility’s network would cost about $38 billion, and is
politically untenable, Miksad said. The utility plans to spend
another $105 million water-proofing underground and substation
equipment.  Consumers would start to pay for the effort with a proposed
$375 million electricity rate increase that would begin Jan. 1,
2014 and last one year. The company is also seeking a $25
million boost in natural gas rates and a decline in rates for
steam service.  Federal Funding  While Con Edison is seeking federal funding for some of its
infrastructure spending, it’s also looking into additional rate
increases that would raise $272 million in 2015 and $351 million
in 2016.  The company will probably face backlash to any rate
increases as memories of Sandy’s miseries fade, Matthew Cordaro,
former chief operating officer of Long Island Lighting Co., said
in a telephone interview today.  “In the midst of a storm, people will always say more
needs to be spent on infrastructure and equipment,” said
Cordaro, a 40-year power industry veteran. “But when the sun
shines several months later and a company attempts to put into
place the financial means to do that, people will always
object.”  Consolidated Edison shares rose less than 1 percent to
$56.51 at the close in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  