-- Contagion Thesis Once Derided Proven by Kristin Forbes
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-01-25T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/contagion-thesis-once-derided-proven-by-kristin-forbes.html
When Kristin Forbes sought tenure at
the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  early last decade,
some colleagues said her research focus on financial contagion
led to a dead end. Her reaction: Full speed ahead.  Forbes worked to safeguard global financial stability with
then-U.S. Treasury Undersecretary  John Taylor , became the
youngest member ever on the White House Council of Economic
Advisers and eventually won tenure at MIT. In August she
presented the opening paper at the  Federal Reserve ’s annual
symposium in Jackson Hole, Wyoming.  “Kristin is one of the leaders in the empirical analysis
of contagion,” said Roberto Rigobon, who, like Forbes, is a
professor of economics at MIT’s Sloan School of Management in
Cambridge, Massachusetts, and has co-written research with her
on the topic. “Her papers are a tour de force for anyone
interested in measuring” its “importance, existence and
extent.”  Forbes, 42, says she still sees complacency over the risk
that financial turmoil will spread beyond a single country, even
with Europe’s struggle to curb its sovereign-debt crisis.
Regulators aren’t doing enough to bolster preventative
oversight, she said in an interview.  “Recently you’ve seen some softening of some of the
regulatory requirements that are being talked about and some
stepping back from some of the proposals,” Forbes said.  “There’s a trade-off obviously. In the middle of the
crisis, having stricter  capital requirements  might delay a
recovery, but it’s critically important for the long-term
stability.”  Stress Test  Officials today may be tempted to bolster bank
profitability by relaxing rules such as stress-test thresholds
or by expanding the categories of assets that qualify toward
liquidity buffers, Forbes said in the research she presented at
Jackson Hole. Such loosening may backfire and “increase a
country’s vulnerability to contagion.”  While requiring more capital may reduce the availability of
credit, it also could offer nations “substantial benefits” by
buffering against international panics. Tighter rules on bank
reserves would reduce risks, acting on Forbes’s finding that
“countries with more-leveraged banking systems are
significantly more vulnerable.”  ‘Wake-Up Calls’  Forbes’ paper laid out the main pathways for the spread of
a crisis, including trade, banks and financial institutions,
along with investors who may be forced by losses in one country
to sell assets in others. She also identified as a cause so-
called “wake-up calls” -- when new information about a
nation’s weaknesses compel a recalibration of risk beyond its
borders.  Forbes said her research is especially relevant for the
euro area today, and her Jackson Hole paper proposed
prescriptions to alleviate that continent’s crisis.  Europe’s focus on sharing liabilities through the  European
Central Bank , European Stability Mechanism and European
Financial Stability Facility may increase contagion risks as
investors begin to question the solvency of countries providing
bailout funds, she said.  Also, European policy makers confronting the risk of bank
runs without a clear “lender of last resort” need to create a
deposit-insurance system to “restore confidence” that funds
will be accessible in the future, she wrote in her paper.  “Someone other than the Greek government needs to
guarantee  bank deposits  in Greek banks,” she said in the
interview.  Bank Runs  ECB President  Mario Draghi  has pledged to do “whatever it
takes” to end the euro crisis, and the 17 member nations are
working to create a single banking supervisor. While bond yields
have declined, the risk of bank runs in Europe persists, Forbes
said.  “We’re in a lull right now, but it doesn’t mean we’re out
of the storm,” Forbes said. “My sense is it’s not over.
There’s such tremendous risks in so many countries.”  Her presentation at Jackson Hole drew praise.  “This is an important paper for the academic literature
and will be widely cited,” said Franklin Allen, an economist at
the  University of Pennsylvania  who was a discussant of her
report. “It is also very important for policy makers.”  Forbes started on her path to Jackson Hole in 1997 while
working toward a Ph.D. in economics at MIT, having graduated
from  Williams College  in Williamstown, Massachusetts, with a
degree in economics. A currency collapse in Thailand had sparked
a crisis throughout East Asia, leading South Korea’s economy to
shrink by 7 percent and Indonesia’s by 14 percent in 1998, and
prompting  intervention  by the  International Monetary Fund .  ‘Incredibly Interested’  “Reading the papers where it came as such a surprise is
what got me incredibly interested,” Forbes said. “Should we
have seen it coming? Is there a way to track these things?”  One of her “major contributions” has been to clarify when
declines in similar types of assets across nations signal a
spreading crisis, said Menzie David Chinn, an economics
professor at the  University of Wisconsin  in Madison.  “It is critical to understand whether events in one
country have an impact on another, or whether both countries are
being impacted by a common shock,” said Chinn, who has co-
written research with Forbes on links among global markets.  Government officials will be less likely to wall off their
financial system and more inclined to work with their foreign
counterparts to calm markets after recognizing that assets have
declined because of a common shock, Chinn said.  Contain Damage  Forbes’s research caught the eye of Taylor, a professor at
 Stanford University  in California known for a  monetary-policy 
rule named after him. Taylor, who was Treasury undersecretary
for international affairs, drafted Forbes to Washington in 2001
to help contain damage from a debt crisis in  Argentina .  In a 1999 paper, Forbes and Rigobon had traced how Russia’s
devaluation of the ruble in 1998 kindled a contagion that
brought down Brazil’s  stock market . In contrast, a collapse in
U.S. stocks that triggers a similar tailspin in Canada isn’t
necessarily an example of contagion through financial markets,
they showed.  The U.S. and Canada have direct ties through trade, finance
and geography, so “a crisis in the U.S. would be expected to
have a strong, real impact on the Canadian economy,” Forbes and
Rigobon said.  On Forbes’s first day at the Treasury, Argentina was
receiving its final loan package before a cutoff from
international lending. A plan to rein in its  budget deficit  was
failing, money was flowing out of its banks and “it was clear
the program wasn’t working,” she said.  Turmoil Trigger  Taylor and Forbes faced the challenge of determining if an
Argentine debt default would trigger turmoil across Latin
America. They bet it wouldn’t, and international finance
weathered the peso’s collapse in 2002, Taylor said in an e-mail.  “The strategy worked because there was no contagion
following the Argentina crisis, unlike there was following the
Russian crisis three years earlier,” he wrote.  Forbes returned to MIT in 2002. While working toward tenure
at the Sloan School, she faced a chorus of academic economists
who believed the period of economic growth from the 1980s until
early last decade -- known as the Great Moderation --
demonstrated that cross-border financial-market turmoil was no
longer a threat.  “You really need a new topic; contagion is an issue of the
past,” Forbes recalls being advised. MIT places a premium on
research with real-world implications, and the prospect that
financial crises would leap from country to country seemed
remote as the global economy boomed.  Global Issues  Facing uncertain tenure prospects, Forbes left MIT for
Washington again in 2003, becoming, at 33, the youngest
economist ever to join the CEA. She focused on global issues
under Chairman Greg Mankiw, a professor at  Harvard University .  Washington’s interest in her talents wasn’t a matter of
dispute, and she finally was awarded tenure while on leave at
the CEA.  S.P. Kothari, a professor of management and the deputy dean
at the Sloan School, recalls faculty discussions of Forbes’s
research and whether contagion was a fruitful focus.  “There were some questions and some debates that took
place, but the group quickly coalesced toward concluding she had
done some extraordinary work,” he said.  Forbes left the CEA in 2005, returning to MIT. Since the
U.S. subprime-mortgage market  collapsed  in 2007, sparking the
worst global financial crisis since the Great Depression, the
relevance of her chosen specialization hasn’t been questioned
and she’s now the Jerome and Dorothy Lemelson Professor of
Management and Global Economics.  Policy Arguments  Forbes is skilled at turning her economics research and
insights into persuasive policy arguments, said  Phillip Swagel ,
chief of the CEA staff when she was there.  She is “extremely effective on both substance and
process,” Swagel said. “The latter is especially important.
The people working on international-security issues look to
ignore economists and economic analysis.”  Forbes “for sure” should be considered for another role
in Washington, said Swagel, a  University of Maryland  professor
and former Treasury assistant secretary for economic policy.  Forbes said she’s not sure she’d jump at an offer for
another government job, though finance is the family vocation.
Her husband is a  fund manager  at  Fidelity Investments . They were
married in 2000 at the Mount Washington Hotel in  Bretton Woods ,
New Hampshire, site of the 1944 conference that established the
rules and institutions behind the international monetary system,
and have three children.  ‘Huge Sacrifice’  Government work is “a huge sacrifice, and I wouldn’t do it
unless it’s an area I really felt I could help on,” she said.  After all of her research, Forbes said even the best
policies won’t avert every banking calamity.  “What we probably could do is a better job preventing them
from spiraling out of control,” she said.  That wasn’t the view of her MIT tenure advisers more than a
decade ago.  “Don’t work on financial crises, don’t work on
contagion,” they said, according to Forbes. “There’re not
going to be anymore crises.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  