-- Copper Seen Extending Rally With China Accelerating: Commodities
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2013-01-25T17:27:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/copper-seen-extending-rally-with-china-accelerating-commodities.html
Copper traders are bullish for a
third consecutive week as the fastest expansion in Chinese
manufacturing in two years boosts confidence that the biggest
buyer of the metal is leading a global recovery.  Eleven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect prices to rise
next week, six were bearish and a further five were neutral. ETF
Securities Ltd. said $28 million went into its ETFS Physical
Copper exchange-traded product last week, the most since its
introduction in 2010.  About $5.8 trillion was added to the value of global
equities since November as  China  accelerated for the first time
in two years and central banks from the U.S. to  Japan  pledged
more action to bolster growth. The U.S. is in its best shape for
two years, a global poll of Bloomberg subscribers on Jan. 17
showed. China consumes 42 percent of the world’s copper and
 North America  11 percent, Barclays Plc estimates.  “Copper is one of those metals that people feel is linked
to the industrial cycle,” said Carole Ferguson, an analyst at
SP Angel Corporate Finance LLP, a broker and adviser in London.
“Demand is obviously returning, we’ve had good numbers coming
out of China and the U.S. definitely looks as if it’s in a
recovery trend.”  The metal rose 1.3 percent to $8,031.50 a metric ton on the
 London  Metal Exchange this year, after averaging $7,953 in 2012,
the second-highest on record. It reached a two-month low of
$7,506 on Nov. 9. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24
commodities added 2.5 percent this year and the MSCI All-Country
World  Index (MXWD)  of equities gained 4.4 percent. Treasuries lost 0.4
percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  China’s Growth  The preliminary reading of a  Purchasing Managers ’ Index in
China was 51.9 percent this month, compared with 51.5 in
December, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said yesterday.
The economy grew 7.9 percent in the fourth quarter after slowing
in the previous seven periods, government data showed Jan. 18.
Expansion will accelerate in this and the next two quarters,
according to as many as 43 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The  U.S. economy  picked up across much of the country last
month, the  Federal Reserve  said Jan. 16, as homebuilding jumped
to a four-year high in December. A majority of the 921 people
surveyed in the Bloomberg Global Poll Jan. 17 described the
world’s biggest economy as improving.  Confidence in a recovery in the U.S. and China spurred
investors to add $175 million to copper ETPs during the past
nine weeks, ETF Securities said Jan. 22. Industrial users
including AmRod Corp. and Southwire Co. have urged U.S.
regulators to reverse a decision clearing the way for a JPMorgan
Chase & Co. copper-backed product, saying such funds would leave
less for manufacturers and create shortages.  Bullish Bets  Hedge funds  and other speculators held a net-long position,
or bets on higher prices, of 16,168 futures and options in the
week to Jan. 15, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data
show. While they cut bets by 20 percent from a week earlier,
they’re still more than twice as bullish as the average over the
past five years.  The Fed,  European Central Bank  and  Bank of Japan  are among
nations that have pledged more stimulus amid concern the
recovery will stall. The Washington-based  International Monetary
Fund  cut its global growth forecast for this year to 3.5 percent
on Jan. 23, compared with an October projection of 3.6 percent.
The 17-nation euro area will contract 0.2 percent, it said.
 Europe  accounts for 18 percent of copper demand, Barclays says.  LME Stockpiles  There are already signs of slowing consumption. Stockpiles
in warehouses monitored by the LME, the largest metals bourse,
jumped 63 percent since reaching an almost four-year low on Oct.
16, exchange data show. Orders to withdraw metal slumped 43
percent in the past three weeks. China’s refined-copper imports
slid 41 percent last year, customs data show.  Codelco, the biggest copper producer, will boost supplies
and add to a surplus that may push prices down toward the end of
the year,  Thomas Keller , chief executive officer of  Chile ’s
state-owned company, said Jan. 23 in an interview from Davos,
 Switzerland . This year’s glut may almost double to 128,000 tons
as output rises faster than consumption, Barclays estimates.  Most of that surplus won’t come until the final three
months of the year, with a 276,000-ton shortage expected in the
two quarters through September, according to Barclays. Prices
will climb to $9,000 in six months, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
wrote in a report two days ago.  In other commodities, five of 11 people surveyed expect raw
sugar to gain next week and four predicted a drop. The commodity
slid 5.9 percent to 18.36 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in
 New York  this year.  Grain Surveys  Fourteen of 29 people surveyed anticipate higher corn
prices next week and 13 said the grain will drop, while 14 of 29
said soybeans will climb and the same amount expect lower
prices. Thirteen of 28 traders predicted gains in wheat and 11
were bearish. Corn rose 3.3 percent to $7.2125 a bushel in
 Chicago  this year as soybeans added 2 percent to $14.3675 a
bushel. Wheat slipped 0.5 percent to $7.7425 a bushel.  Sixteen of 31 traders and analysts surveyed said gold would
advance next week and 11 were bearish. Bullion fell 0.9 percent
to $1,659.80 an ounce in London this year after advancing the
previous 12 years, the longest run of gains in at least nine
decades.  The S&P GSCI gauge of raw materials reached a three-month
high this week and speculators raised bullish wagers across 18
commodities by the most since November in the week ended Jan.
15, CFTC data show. Demand will outstrip supply this year in
platinum, palladium and tin, while corn, wheat and cocoa will
have shortages in the 2012-13 season, according to estimates
from Barclays and Rabobank International.  “It is an overall improvement in sentiment and a more
constructive view on the global economy,” said Georgette Boele,
a commodities strategist at ABN Amro Group NV in Amsterdam. “We
favor the cyclical commodities with tighter supply and demand
balances.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  