-- Wheat, Soybeans Rise on U.S. Export Demand; Corn Declines
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2013-01-25T21:04:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/corn-slides-amid-rain-in-south-america-soy-steady-wheat-gains.html
Wheat and soybean futures gained
after a government report showed export demand increased from
the U.S., the world’s biggest shipper. Corn fell.  U.S. exporters sold 572,545 metric tons of wheat in the
week ended Jan. 17, up 6.8 percent from a week earlier and the
most in five weeks, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said
today in a report. Sales of  soybean oil  doubled from a week
earlier, and  soybean-meal  rose 76 percent from a year earlier.  “Foreign buyers are turning to U.S. wheat because it is
the cheapest available on the world market,”  Jim Gerlach , the
president of A/C Trading Co. in Fowler, Indiana, said in a
telephone interview. “Exports of meal and oil continue to be
very strong, and that is driving U.S. processor demand for
soybeans.”  Wheat futures for March delivery climbed 1 percent to close
at $7.765 a bushel at 2 p.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade,
ending a three-session slump. The grain fell 1.9 percent this
week.  Soybean futures for March delivery rose 0.4 percent to
$14.41 a bushel. This week, the oilseed advanced 0.8 percent,
the third straight gain, after the USDA said on Jan. 11 that
inventories dropped to a nine-year low.  Corn futures for March delivery fell 0.5 percent to $7.2075
a bushel. This week, the grain dropped 0.9 percent on
speculation that precipitation will boost crops in  South
America .  Soil moisture improved after rain in the past 24 hours in
parts of Brazil and Argentina, World Weather Inc. in Overland
Park,  Kansas , said in a report. Another storm beginning Jan. 30
will reach some of the driest areas of northern Argentina and
southern Brazil, the forecaster said.  “South America weather is not yield threatening,”  Don Roose , the president of U.S. Commodities Inc. in West Des
Moines, Iowa, said in a telephone interview. “Every day, we get
closer to big crops in South America and reduced demand for U.S.
supplies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  