-- Corn Swoon Returning on Moving-Average Break: Technical Analysis
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2013-01-25T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/corn-swoon-returning-on-moving-average-break-technical-analysis.html
A January corn rally that halted the
longest slump in four years probably won’t last, after prices
failed to hold above the 50-day moving average, according to
Prime Agricultural Consultants Inc.  Corn futures for March delivery on the Chicago Board of
Trade will drop 6.4 percent by the end of February from
yesterday’s close of $7.2425 a bushel, Prime Ag President Chad Henderson said. Prices will retest the January low at $6.78,
after dropping below the 50-day moving average on Jan. 22, he
said. The $6.78 target also matches the 50 percent Fibonacci
retracement of the contract’s rally from May to August.  “The market is looking weak with the series of lower highs
and lower lows,” Henderson said by telephone from Brookfield,
 Wisconsin . “We advised farmers to sell more corn after failing
to break downtrend resistance.”  During a Midwest drought that damaged crops, the March
contract surged by $3.3525 to a record $8.4625 on Aug. 10, from
a low of $5.11 on May 11. Since then, prices dropped for five
straight months. While corn is up 3.7 percent in January,
traders are increasingly focused on slowing demand from makers
of  ethanol  and animal feed, Henderson said. Prices have failed
to climb above a five-month downtrend line, encouraging
consumers to wait for lower prices to extend purchases, he said.  Rain expected over the next two weeks will boost yield
potential in Brazil and  Argentina , the world’s biggest exporters
after the U.S., Henderson said. Combined corn output in the two
South American nations will gain 5.3 percent to the highest
ever, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said Jan. 11.  “We are moving away from tight U.S. supplies to a more
plentiful situation,” Henderson said. “There is no reason for
farmers to hold one bushel of corn in storage.”  Fibonacci analysis is based on the theory that commodities
and securities tend to rise or fall by specific percentages
after reaching a high or low. In  technical analysis , investors
and analysts study charts of trading patterns and prices to
forecast changes in a bond, commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  