-- Ctrip Tops Worst Weekly Drop in 2 Months: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-01-25T19:52:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/ctrip-tops-worst-weekly-drop-in-2-months-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities  in New York
dropped, extending the longest stretch of declines since
November.  Ctrip.com International Ltd. (CTRP)  tumbled on concern plans
to offer discounted plane tickets will reduce profit.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. fell for a third day, sliding 0.8
percent to 99.69 by 2:04 p.m. and extending its weekly slump to
2 percent, the most in two months. Ctrip,  China ’s largest web
travel agency, sank as much as 16 percent, triggering a short
sale restriction from the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 China Life Insurance Co. (LFC)  slipped after an industry regulator
said 2013 would be the most difficult year for insurers.  Ctrip, which revealed yesterday that it plans to cut about
500 employees, plunged after Travel Daily  reported  that the
Shanghai-based company will extend a program of cash rebates for
airline tickets, citing a Ctrip statement. This means the
continuation of a “price war” in the Chinese travel industry,
Muzhi Li, an analyst at Citigroup Inc., wrote in a report
reiterating a sell rating on Ctrip.  “Ctrip’s cash rebate program in air tickets is even more
negative to its stock than its layoff news,” Henry Guo, a
senior analyst at ABR Investment Strategy LLC, which focuses on
technology and media companies, said by phone from San Francisco
yesterday. “Ctrip’s promotional program in air tickets will be
followed by its biggest rivals as well as smaller agencies,
causing a price war that will hurt its earnings.”  Stock Valuations  The China-US Index followed the  Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index (HSCEI)  and the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  lower this week, as
valuations approached the highest levels in eight months.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises gauge fell 0.8 percent to
12,001.81, bringing its drop in the week to 0.9 percent. The
Shanghai Composite measure of domestic Chinese shares slid 0.5
percent to 2,291.30 yesterday, slumping 1.1 percent in the week  Companies on the China-US gauge  trade  at an average 13.5
times estimated earnings, within 3.5 percent of the highest
valuation in two months, reached Jan. 10. The 55-stock measure
has added 0.5 percent this year.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., slipped 1.4 percent to $40.93
yesterday, capping a weekly loss of 1.9 percent. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.4 percent to five-year high of
1,500.99, as  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  and Procter & Gamble Co. reported
increased profit and German business confidence beat forecasts.  Ctrip’s American depositary receipts tumbled 12 percent to
$19.89, set for the biggest rout since December 2010.  ‘Particularly Challenging’  “Ctrip’s additional price cut is roughly 10 percent of
ticket prices, which couldn’t be covered by 4 to 5 percent of
commission rates,” Citigroup’s Li wrote in a note yesterday.
“Therefore, Ctrip would lose money on each discounted ticket
sale.” Hong Kong-based Li maintained a price target of $11.4
for Ctrip’s ADRs.  Ctrip is  scheduled  to report fourth-quarter results on Jan.
31. Its profit margin fell to 16.5 percent in the third quarter
of 2012 from 33.4 percent a year earlier, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The first quarter of 2013 could be “particularly
challenging” for Ctrip due to the air ticket discounts, as
profit margin will come under pressure, Tian X. Hou, founder of
T.H. Capital LLC said in a report yesterday. “We expect the
impact from the new round of air price competition to be worse
than the previous hotel promotions.”  ADRs of China Life, the nation’s biggest insurer, based in
Beijing, dropped 3.3 percent to $49.89, poised for the steepest
slump since Oct. 17.  Ambow’s Earnings  Xiang Junbo, Chairman of the China Insurance Regulation
Commission,  said  2013 could be the most difficult year for the
insurance industry due to lower investment returns and rising
operation costs, the Xinhua News Agency reported Jan. 24 on its
website, citing Xiang’s speech at a work conference. The primary
task this year is for the companies to stabilize growth, he
said, according to Xinhua.  Ambow Education Holding Ltd. (AMBO) , a private tutoring service
provider based in Beijing, slipped 4.6 percent on its fifth
straight day of declines to a record low of $1.87. Its ADRs have
lost 17 percent this year.  The Beijing-based company, which last released earnings in
July for the quarter ended in March, is a “foreign private
issuer” under SEC regulations and is not required to file
quarterly reports or financial statements with the U.S.
regulator, Ambow media manager Mandy Li said in an e-mail on
Jan. 24.  NetEase Inc., operator of China’s second-largest online
games website, gained 3.8 percent to $46.91, the biggest gainer
on the China-US gauge. The Beijing-based company is scheduled to
report fourth-quarter earnings on Feb. 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  