-- Debevoise, Holland & Knight, Hunton: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-01-28T16:07:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/debevoise-holland-knight-wilmerhale-business-of-law.html
Debevoise & Plimpton LLP partner
Mary Jo White, who gained prominence prosecuting terrorists as
U.S. attorney for Manhattan, was named by President Barack Obama
to be chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission.  White would succeed Elisse Walter, who took over as SEC
chairman when  Mary Schapiro  stepped down last month. Obama also
re-nominated  Richard Cordray  as director of the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau.  “Debevoise is very proud that our partner and colleague
Mary Jo White has once again been called to return to public
service in a vitally important role,” Debevoise presiding
partner Michael W. Blair said in an e-mailed statement. “All of
us who know and work with Mary Jo know that her extraordinary
intellect, energy and experience, combined with her bedrock
integrity, will serve our country exceptionally well as she
takes on the important responsibility of chairing the Securities
and Exchange Commission.”  The appointment of White will be a departure for the SEC,
which has typically been run by lawyers steeped in financial
policy making and the securities industry. Her relative
inexperience in those areas, along with her work defending
corporate clients including  Ken Lewis , the former chief
executive officer of  Bank of America Corp ., could draw criticism
from some lawmakers and advocates for investors.  White, 65, was U.S. attorney for the Southern District of
New York from 1993 to 2002, and won the conviction of four
followers of Osama bin Laden for the 1998 bombings of two U.S.
embassies in Africa.  Under her direction, prosecutors won convictions for the
1993 World Trade Center bombing and a failed plot to blow up the
United Nations headquarters and other New York landmarks. During
that time, she supervised  Robert Khuzami , the SEC’s outgoing
enforcement director, and George Canellos, his deputy.  “The Obama administration would be sending a message that
the SEC will continue to be a tough cop on  Wall Street ,” Rick Firestone, a former SEC attorney who is now a partner at law
firm McDermott Will & Emery, said in an e-mail. “Her extensive
experience in private practice gives her balance and a deep
understanding of Wall Street and the issues in our  capital
markets .”  Her work as a defense attorney for some of Wall Street’s
biggest names could raise concerns among lawmakers. She
represented Lewis during an SEC probe of claims that Charlotte,
North Carolina-based Bank of America didn’t disclose bonuses
that Merrill Lynch & Co. paid to executives before buying the
brokerage. The bank settled the claims for $150 million; Lewis
wasn’t accused of wrongdoing.  In 2011, White was hired by  News Corp. (NWSA)  to defend its
independent directors against claims related to the company’s
role in phone hacking by News of the World, its former U.K.-
based tabloid.  White also surfaced in an SEC controversy when she worked
on behalf of  Morgan Stanley (MS)  to vet  John Mack  before he was named
CEO of the investment bank. She sought information in 2005 from
then-SEC enforcement director Linda Thomsen about what an
insider-trading probe of hedge-fund manager Pequot Capital
Management Inc. revealed about Mack’s involvement.  An SEC inspector general’s report issued in 2008 questioned
whether Thomsen should have shared information about a potential
target with White. The agency later informed Mack and Pequot
that it had closed the investigation and wouldn’t pursue any
action against them.  The re-nomination of Cordray to lead the consumer bureau
will come a year after Obama placed him in the job with a recess
appointment that bypassed Senate confirmation. The president
took the step after Senate Republicans blocked the nomination
while seeking changes to the agency’s funding and structure.  For more, click here.  AIG Hires Patton Boggs to Lobby on ILFC Deal With China Group  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , the insurer that repaid
a U.S. bailout last year, hired Patton Boggs LLP to  lobby
lawmakers  over a deal to sell its aircraft-leasing unit.  The firm  registered  to represent AIG effective Dec. 7, the
day the insurer said it was in talks to sell International Lease
Finance Corp. to a group of Chinese investors. The $4.2 billion
deal requires approval from regulators in China and the U.S.  AIG suspended all lobbying in October 2008, a month after
the U.S. provided the first part of a $182.3 billion rescue. The
U.S. on  Dec. 11  sold the last shares it had acquired in the
bailout of the New York-based insurer.  Patton Boggs handles regulatory and legal matters related
to international business deals, according to the Washington-
based firm’s website.  For more, click here.  Deutsche Bank Names Roberto Head of Investment Bank in Brazil  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Germany’s largest lender, named Joel
Roberto, a former lawyer with Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom
LLP, head of  investment banking  in Brazil, to replace Jaime Singer.  Singer is leaving “to pursue personal projects,” a
spokeswoman for the Frankfurt-based company said, asking not to
be identified in keeping with company policy. Roberto’s
promotion will “keep strengthening the business in Brazil,”
she said.  Roberto, 46, has worked for Deutsche Bank since 2010, and
was a managing director responsible for client relationships in
sectors including infrastructure, telecommunications, media,
logistics, technology and conglomerates. He was previously a
banker at Banco Santander Brasil SA and ABN Amro Bank NV and an
attorney at Skadden.  Deutsche Bank cut employees in its Brazilian investment
bank and research units last month as part of a global effort to
save 4.5 billion euros ($6 billion) by 2015. The company, which
has about 500 employees in Brazil including workers from
outsourcing services, didn’t say how many jobs were eliminated.  Moves  Former Puerto Rico Governor Luis Fortuño Joins Steptoe  Steptoe & Johnson LLP announced that Luis G. Fortuño, the
former governor of Puerto Rico, has joined the firm as a partner
in Washington. Fortuño joins the corporate, securities, and
finance group and the government affairs and public policy
group, and will help with the expansion of Steptoe’s Latin
American practice, the firm said.  Fortuño was elected governor in 2008. Under his leadership,
Puerto Rico reduced the  budget deficit  by 90% and implemented
the biggest tax cut in its history, the firm said. Fortuño’s
public-private partnerships law allowed for infrastructure
investment projects in Puerto Rico’s highway system and at its
hub airport, the firm said.  Prior to his election as governor, Fortuño spent four years
in Congress as the elected delegate from Puerto Rico. In private
practice in Puerto Rico, Fortuño was a partner in the McConnell
Valdés law firm, and later a founding partner of the boutique
firm Correa, Collazo, Herrero, Jiménez & Fortuño.  “Luis brings a track record of success from every position
he has held. As governor, right after the 2007 global economic
crisis, he developed and successfully implemented fiscal reforms
that included public-private partnerships, tax cuts, regulatory
streamlining and new sources of government revenue,” Steptoe
chairman Roger E. Warin said in a statement.  Steptoe & Johnson has more than 500 lawyers and other
professionals in nine offices.  Chadbourne Insurance Head Joins Holland & Knight in New York  Insurance lawyer John Sarchio has joined Holland & Knight
LLP in New York as chairman of the firm’s insurance industry
practice team. Sarchio, most recently co-founder and co-head of
the insurance and reinsurance practice group at Chadbourne &
Parke LLP, is joined by partner Richard G. Liskov. Sarchio also
formerly led the insurance practice at White & Case LLP, the
firm said.  “John is an outstanding lawyer recognized nationally and
internationally for his deep knowledge of insurance regulatory,
transactional and reinsurance-related issues. His reputation as
a proven industry expert, as well as his considerable experience
with commercial and government clients, will significantly
enhance the firm’s capabilities and services,” said Steven Sonberg, managing partner of Holland & Knight.  Sarchio’s practice concentrates on insurance industry
mergers, acquisitions and financings, reinsurance transactions,
self-insurance and captives, and insurance regulatory matters.
He provides guidance in connection with insurance company
demutualizations, bank-insurer affiliations and mutual insurer
mergers, the firm said. He has also advised several state and
foreign governments on insurance issues and has drafted a number
of laws and regulations governing various aspects of the
insurance industry, including Vermont’s highly successful
captive insurance law.  Liskov focuses his practice on insurance regulatory,
transactional and litigation matters. Prior to joining
Chadbourne, he was the deputy superintendent and general counsel
of the New York State Insurance Department.  Holland & Knight has more than 1,000 lawyers and other
professionals in 17 U.S. offices, as well as  Abu Dhabi , Beijing,
Bogotá and Mexico City.  Day Pitney Hires Intellectual Property Partner Andrew Riddles  Day Pitney LLP hired intellectual property lawyer Andrew
Riddles as a partner. Riddles, formerly with Crowell Morning
LLP, will divide his time between the firm’s Stamford,
Connecticut, and New York offices.  Riddles has litigated patent infringement cases, for both
plaintiff and defendant, involving technologies such as optics,
computer hardware and software, telecommunications, e-commerce,
semiconductor circuits and microwave transmission. In addition
to his IP trial practice, Riddles represents parties in
technology and multi-party matters like technology transfer
agreements and the resolution of multiparty litigation claims.  Day Pitney has attorneys at 10 U.S. offices.  Environmental Lawyer Joins Hunton & Williams in Washington  Scott Stone joined Hunton & Williams LLP’s environmental
law practice group as counsel in Washington. Stone comes from
Sierra Nevada Corp., an electronics, avionics, communications
and data-integration systems provider, where he served as
director of global environmental initiatives.  Stone focuses his practice on administrative, environmental
and international law, particularly Clean Air Act,  Clean Water
Act  and other environmental regulatory issues. Before working at
Sierra Nevada, he was an associate with Hunton & Williams.  Hunton & Williams has more than 800 lawyers in 19 offices
in the U.S., Europe and Asia.  Litigation  WilmerHale Counsel Sues Firm for Discrimination in Termination  A former Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP lawyer
filed a law suit claiming the firm fired her for taking leave
after adopting a baby and denied her salary and bonus, the law
firm Sanford Heisler LLP said in a statement. The suit alleges
gender and age bias by WilmerHale.  Pamela Levinson, who was a member of the intellectual
property litigation group, the business litigation group and the
investigations and criminal litigation group, worked at
WilmerHale for seven years before the firm fired her last
February, Sanford Heisler said.  Levinson, who graduated first in her class at University of
Miami Law School, joined WilmerHale in 2004 as a fourth-year
associate, the firm said. She was promoted to counsel in 2008.  What followed her adoption, was “her first negative
evaluation at the firm, substantial reduction in her annual
bonus and ultimately her termination,” according to the
statement.  Susan Murley, co-managing partner, WilmerHale, said in an
e-mailed statement that “Ms. Levinson’s claims are completely
without merit and we will vigorously defend the firm.”  Firm News  Edgcomb Law Group Opens Burbank Office with Bingham Partners  Boutique environmental firm Edgcomb Law Group LLP hired two
new partners, Nancy Wilms and Tiffany Hedgpeth, to open the
firm’s first Southern California office. Wilms and Hedgpeth,
formerly partners at Bingham McCutchen LLP in  Los Angeles , will
join the firm as partners and open the a new office in Burbank,
California, the firm said.  “Joining forces with Nancy and Tiffany and adding a
Southern California office marks a major milestone for Edgcomb
Law Group as a firm and for me personally,” John Edgcomb, who
founded ELG in San Francisco in 1995, said in a statement. “Our
diverse client-base is national in scope, and having a Los
Angeles office and two more former big-law attorneys will help
us serve our clients at a new level, but with the same emphasis
on cost-effectiveness.”  Wilms and Hedgpeth have spent 16 and 15 years,
respectively, in Bingham’s Los Angeles environmental group.
Wilms’ practice focuses on managing large, complex environmental
litigation matters and defending clients against citizen’s suits
brought under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and the
Clean Water Act, the firm said. Hedgpeth’s practice also focuses
on environmental litigation.  Deals  Sternlicht’s Starwood Firms to Buy LNR in $1.05 Billion Deal  Sidley Austin LLP advised  Starwood Property (STWD)  Trust Inc. and
Starwood Capital Group LLC, which agreed to buy LNR Property
LLC, the biggest manager of distressed U.S. commercial real
estate loans, for $1.05 billion.  Sullivan & Cromwell LLP and Schulte Roth & Zabel LLP
advised the sellers.  Starwood Property, the largest commercial-mortgage real
estate investment trust, will pay $856 million for most of LNR’s
businesses, including its U.S. special servicing unit and 50
percent of LNR’s stake in Auction.com, the companies said
yesterday in a statement. Starwood Capital,  Barry Sternlicht ’s
closely held investment firm, will buy LNR’s U.S. property-
development unit and the other half of the  Auction.com  interest
for $197 million.  LNR’s co-CEOs, Tobin Cobb and Justin Kennedy, will remain
in their jobs, managing LNR as a separate business under
Starwood Property ownership. The Miami Beach, Florida-based
company is currently owned by a group that includes funds
managed by Cerberus Capital Management LP,  Oaktree Capital Group
LLC (OAK) ,  iStar Financial Inc. (SFI)  and  Vornado Realty Trust. (VNO)   Sidley’s team was led by corporate partners  Michael Gordon 
and Scott Freeman. The team also included partners Jonathan
Babb, corporate;  David Miller  and Ivy Li Jones, tax; Edward
Prokop and Aimee Contreras-Camua, real estate; Mark I. Greenberg, bank finance; Kevin Blaugh, Mark M. Rogers and Myles Pollin, securitization; Robert P. Hardy, benefits; Jerry Cummins
and Robert Mandell, corporate finance; Mark Raven and David
Went, competition. In London partners Partha S. Pal and Nicholas
Turner also worked on the deal. In Frankfurt, litigation partner
Isaac Greaney assisted.  S&C represented all of the sellers, the board and Vornado
individually. The S&C New York-based team includes Alan
Sinsheimer, mergers and acquisitions; Eli Jacobson, tax; Matthew Friestedt, employee compensation; and S. Neal McKnight, finance.  Schulte Roth represented LNR and Cerberus on this deal. The
SRZ team was led by M&A partner John M. Pollack and tax partner
Alan S. Waldenberg.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 