-- Double-Decker Funds Grow Most in 10 Months in December on Real
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2013-01-25T04:08:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/double-decker-funds-grow-most-in-10-months-in-december-on-real.html
Japanese funds that pair investments
in high-yield debt and foreign exchange grew the most in 10
months in December after a rally in the Brazilian real, the
most-used currency for the products.  The total net asset value of the so-called double-decker
funds -- designed to first invest in high-yielding assets like
 junk bonds  and then buy into currencies to further increase
returns -- rose 7.9 percent to 9.63 trillion yen ($106.4
billion) last month from November, the steepest increase since
February, according to data compiled by Thomson-Reuters unit
Lipper. Created in 2009, the products now account for more than
15 percent of the world’s eighth-largest mutual-fund market.  The Brazilian real was among the 10 best-performing
currencies against the yen last month, gaining 9.5 percent as
the central bank intervened to stem the currency’s decline
against the  U.S. dollar . Products tied to the real accounted for
46 percent of double-decker fund assets last month, as Japanese
individuals looked to beat the country’s low interest rates by
looking overseas for higher-return investments.  The gain in the real helped boost demand for the funds,
Shoko Shinoda, a Tokyo-based analyst at Lipper, said by phone.
Net sales jumped 31 percent in December from the previous month,
according to the research company’s data.  Regular Income  The increase last month reversed slowing growth in November
when the real dropped to the lowest level against the greenback
in more than three years after  Brazil ’s central bank indicated
it would keep its benchmark rate at a record low for a period
economists predict will be the longest in history.  Double-decker products use non-deliverable forward
contracts for foreign exchange to leverage returns and pay
monthly dividends, catering to Japanese individual investors who
want a regular income, such as retirees.  The real has been preferred by Japanese funds to other
emerging-market currencies because it’s more actively traded in
the global foreign-exchange market, Shinoda said.  Nomura Asset Management Co.’s real-linked “ U.S. High Yield
Bond Fund, (01315091) ” is a double-decker fund investing in U.S. dollar-
denominated industrial bonds. Its  net asset value  increased 6.8
percent in December, after falling 1.4 percent a month earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Total returns on the fund were 21.8 percent in 2012,
compared with a 5.4 percent loss the previous year, the data
show.  The real’s drop over the past two years, amid a series of
interest-rate cuts in Brazil, and subsequent fluctuations in
returns on double-decker funds, have prompted  Japan ’s financial
regulator to require more disclosure about the products’ risks,
making sales more difficult, said Sadayuki Horie, a Tokyo-based
researcher at Nomura Research Institute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  