-- The Other Problem With 'Makers Versus Takers'
-- B y   J o s h   B a r r o
-- 2013-01-25T15:17:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/the-other-problem-with-makers-versus-takers-.html
In his second inaugural address, President  Barack Obama  took issue with the
"makers versus takers" narrative put out by Republican politicians.  Paul Ryan 
 took issue  with the president’s characterization of his argument: Earned entitlements, where you pay your payroll
taxes to get a benefit when you retire like Social Security, Medicare, are not
taker programs. And I think when the president does kind of a switcheroo like
that, what he's trying to say is we are maligning these programs that people
have earned throughout their working lives. And so, it's kind of a convenient
twist of terms to try and shadowbox a straw man in order to win an argument by
default. The first problem with Ryan’s statement is that he has, in fact, previously
used a definition of "makers" and "takers" that includes the receipt of  Social
Security  and Medicare benefits as "taking." As "The  Daily Show "  pointed out  this
week, Ryan has cited a Tax Foundation paper to say that between 60 and 70
percent of Americans get more in federal government benefits than they pay in
taxes; that paper includes all federal  government spending  in its count. If you
don’t include those programs, you can’t get to Ryan’s conclusion that more than
half of Americans are "takers." But there’s a second problem with Ryan's recent statement: Medicare is, by
any reasonable measure, a "taker" program. It is not an "earned entitlement"
like Social Security; while there is a  payroll tax  called "Medicare tax,"
Medicare benefits are substantially unlinked to taxes paid. If you or your
spouse worked for at least 10 years, you're entitled to the full Medicare
benefit, regardless of how much tax you paid. Eugene Steuerle and Caleb Quakenbush at the  Urban Institute  have  run the
numbers  and found that almost every American can expect to receive far more in
Medicare benefits than he or she pays in Medicare taxes. A two-earner couple,
with both members earning an average wage of $44,600 in 2012 and retiring in
2020, can expect to pay $153,000 in Medicare taxes over their lifetime and
collect $427,000 worth of benefits. (Both tax and benefits figures are adjusted
to a present value, meaning the calculation adjusts for the fact that taxes are
paid years before benefits are received.) This is true by design: Medicare tax was only ever intended to cover Medicare
Part A, which covers inpatient care; Parts B and D, covering outpatient care and
 prescription drugs , are funded from general revenue, which means they are paid
for by taxes such as the individual income tax. Now, Ryan might argue that even if Medicare is not an earned entitlement, its
universality makes it not a "taker" program: Most Americans can expect to spend
part of their lives on Medicare and part of their lives working and paying taxes
into the government’s general fund, so it doesn't create a specific class of
people dependent on the program. But that would be wrong, because people with higher incomes pay a lot more in
taxes to support all government functions, including Medicare, than those with
lower incomes, while everyone gets the same Medicare benefit. In fact, because
Medicare premiums are means-tested, those who paid the most into the system get
the least out at the end. That is, Medicare is a progressive fiscal transfer, so
by definition it creates "makers" and "takers." Medicare is also an intergenerational transfer. People who are currently
elderly had the good fortune to be working at a time when health-care costs were
relatively low and retirees relatively few, and to collect benefits when health
care is expensive. The excellent deal enjoyed by the currently retired
generation will be offset by an unfavorable fiscal deal for my generation. They
take, I make. The same is true of Social Security, though to a lesser extent. Unlike
Medicare, Social Security benefits are approximately covered by specific taxes
collected to finance the program. But while that is true across the population,
it is not necessarily true for any specific beneficiary. The Social Security
benefit formula is progressive, so people with low incomes can expect to get an
excellent return on their payroll taxes, and people with high incomes can expect
a poor return. Again, it’s a fiscal transfer, creating makers and takers, even
when individual beneficiaries are viewed over a lifetime. Ryan has an obvious political imperative to draw a false distinction that
excludes Social Security and Medicare from fiscal transfer calculations: He
wants to make clear to the  Republican Party ’s aging base that when he talks
about "takers," he means poor people, not old white people. It’s the same
political imperative that leads Republicans to insist, absurdly, that Medicare
faces a crisis requiring a huge structural overhaul and that we should make no
changes to benefits for people currently over 55. You might say that Ryan is twisting his argument in a way that allows him to
offer "gifts" to his political base. The truth, of course, is that redistributing income is one of the essential
functions of the federal government. It's exactly what entitlement programs are
for. And as pretax inequality rises, so will the number of people receiving
benefits that outstrip the taxes they pay, even absent any policy change. In an
environment of rising pretax inequality,  the only way  to hold the number of
"takers" fixed is to adopt a less progressive fiscal policy. That would be an
odd proposal, but it's also the Ryan proposal. (Josh Barro is lead writer for the Ticker.  E-mail  him and  follow  him on
Twitter.)