-- Edenor Rallies on Rate Increase Speculation: Buenos Aires Mover
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-01-25T19:12:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/edenor-rallies-on-rate-increase-speculation-buenos-aires-mover.html
Empresa Distribuidora y
Comercializadora Norte (EDN)  SA, Argentina’s largest power
distributor, rallied to a nine-month high on speculation the
government will allow it to increase rates.  Edenor, as the company is also known, advanced 5.9 percent
to 1.02 pesos at 3:49 p.m. in Buenos Aires, its highest level on
a closing basis since March 30. The stock was headed for a sixth
week of gains, which would be the longest winning streak since
October 2010. The company’s  shares  have surged 56 percent in
January, the most among members of the benchmark Merval equity
index.  “There has been a lot of speculation of a rate increase,
and the rumors have intensified,” Augusto Posleman, who helps
manage 4 billion pesos ($806 million) in assets as the head of
private banking at Puente Hermanos Soc. de Bolsa SA, said in a
phone interview from Buenos Aires. “People are buying on the
cheap on a bet they stand to gain a lot if rates rise.”  Edenor, the worst-performing stock on the Merval in 2012,
has posted sixth consecutive quarterly losses as  Argentina 
blocked rate increases and inflation eroded revenue. The
government last allowed the company to raise rates 28 percent in
2007 and less than 10 percent in 2008. La Nacion, an Argentine
newspaper, reported this week that some customers have received
higher power bills.  The company doesn’t comment on market speculation on the
stock’s performance, Eduardo Mirabelli, an Edenor spokesman,
said by e-mail.  Today’s rally cut the stock’s loss in the past year to 33
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The stock
retreated 54 percent in 2012 and 47 percent in the prior year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  