-- Mellanox Cut Most After Apple on Sales: Israel Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2013-01-25T00:26:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/mellanox-cut-most-after-apple-on-sales-israel-overnight.html
Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX) ’s price
target was cut the most among the world’s 374 largest technology
companies after  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  as sales guidance missed analysts’
projections for the second time this month.  The Israeli maker of software used to transfer and store
data fell 1.3 percent to $51.01 yesterday in  New York  on trading
volume more than eight times its three-month daily average. The
 Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the largest U.S.-traded
Israeli companies lost 0.3 percent to 86.15.  EZchip
Semiconductor Ltd. (EZCH)  rallied the most in three weeks after Maxim
Group LLC recommended buying the shares.  Mellanox, based in Yokneam, Israel, forecast on Jan. 23
first-quarter sales that trailed  estimates  by as much as 48
percent, prompting analysts to reduce the share’s price target
by an average $16.5. The target reduction was the most after
that for Cupertino, California-based Apple, which sank 12
percent yesterday on slower profit growth. A Jan. 2 revenue
forecast from Mellanox also missed projections.  “Credibility has been shattered -- I’m actually surprised
it’s not down more,” Jim Oberweis, who oversees $700 million as
president of Oberweis Asset Management Inc. including Mellanox
shares said by phone yesterday from Lisle, Illinois. “They gave
enough data a few weeks ago where there’s just no way you could
come to the first-quarter number being as bad as it is.”  Mellanox shares traded in  Tel Aviv  retreated 14 percent to
155 shekels, or the equivalent of $41.76, leaving Mellanox’s New
York stock to close at the largest  premium  to the Israeli
security since April.  ‘Ask Questions’  At least 11 analysts  cut  their 12-month price estimate on
Mellanox’s shares after the company said sales for the three
months ended March will reach $78 million to $83 million, below
the $130.7 million average of 13 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The company said that a buildup in inventory by one
of the company’s customers caused the revision.  The new outlook followed a fourth-quarter revenue guidance
reduction at the beginning of the month to a range of $119
million to $121 million from $145 million to $150 million.  “The magnitude of the overall slowdown in the business
leads us to ask questions,”  Brent Bracelin , an analyst at
Pacific Crest Securities LLC who cut his rating in Mellanox to
sector perform from outperform, said by phone from  Portland ,
 Oregon . “At this point, we need to do more work to really
understand what’s going on at that company.”  Mellanox was unaware of the inventory buildup at one of its
customers until after the conference call in which the company
reduced its fourth-quarter guidance, Chief Executive Officer
Eyal Waldman, said in a telephone interview yesterday from
Sunnyvale,  California .  Inventory Buildup  “We found out about the extent of the inventory buildup
last week,” Waldman said. “We’re continuing to build
mechanisms to prevent this from happening in the future.”  Mellanox’s price-target reduction over the past week was
second to Apple’s among companies listed on the  Nasdaq Computer
Index. (IXK)  Analysts reduced their estimate on the stock of the maker
of iPads and iPhones by an average $90.6 after it reported the
slowest profit growth since 2003 and the weakest sales increase
in 14 quarters.  Prior to the fourth quarter of 2012, Mellanox had reported
sales and profit that  topped  analysts’ estimates for 23
consecutive quarters. Revenue grew 93 percent last year.  “To grow on top of what they did last year was going to be
very difficult,” Andrew Nowinski, an analyst at Piper Jaffray
Cos who maintained his buy rating on the stock, said by phone
yesterday from  Minneapolis . “They went five years without
missing estimates.”  EZchip Buy  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  was Mellanox’s
largest customer in the fourth quarter, accounting for 17
percent of revenue, followed by Hewlett-Packard Co., comprising
14 percent, Chief Finance Officer Jacob Shulman said on the Jan.
23 conference call.  EZchip, the Israeli chipmaker whose customers include
Juniper Networks Inc. and Cisco Systems Inc., gained the most
since Jan. 2, advancing 2.2 percent to $33.34 after  Ashok Kumar ,
an analyst at Maxim Group, began coverage of the stock with a
buy rating. Shares traded in Tel Aviv lost 1.5 percent to 122.2
shekels, or the equivalent of $32.93.  MagicJack VocalTec Ltd. (CALL) , the Israeli company whose founders
invented the technology used to make telephone calls over the
Internet, lost 8.1 percent to $13.85, the lowest since June 1.
The Netanya, Israel-based company appointed Gerald Vento as its
chief executive officer on Jan. 1, replacing Daniel Borislow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  