-- Emerging Market Stocks Slump Most in Two Months as Samsung Sinks
-- B y   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o   a n d   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-01-25T22:10:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/emerging-stocks-decline-to-three-week-low-as-samsung-kia-tumble.html
Emerging-market stocks posted the
biggest weekly drop in two months after Samsung Electronics Co.
said the won’s strength is hurting profits and  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) 
reported a slump in earnings.  Samsung, the  maker  of mobile phones and TVs that has the
 biggest weighting  on the MSCI Emerging Markets Index,  dropped  on
Jan. 25 to an eight-week low in  Seoul , while Kia Motors sank the
most since Nov. 5.  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN)  and  Akbank TAS (AKBNK) 
slipped for the first time in 10 days as Credit Suisse Group AG
called for an end to the Turkish bank rally.  Russia ’s United Co.
Rusal slid to the lowest level since Dec. 4 after Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. cut the stock to sell. Brazilian markets were closed.  The MSCI Emerging Markets measure lost 0.3 percent to
1,069.12 in  New York  on Jan. 25, as an exchange-traded fund of
developing-nation stocks sank to the lowest in four weeks. The
index dropped 1.1 percent last week, the most since Nov. 16.
Samsung said the strengthening won may cut operating profit by
at least 3 trillion won ($2.8 billion) this year. Kia Motors
reported a 51 percent decrease in fourth-quarter operating
profit as the stronger Korean currency eroded the value of its
exports.  “For Asian companies, the currency issue is the biggest
risk factor in the foreseeable future,” Laurentia Amica Darmawan, who helps manage about $530 million at PT First State
Investments Indonesia, said by phone in Jakarta. “It will go on
until we have clarity on how long the monetary easing from
various countries will last.”  South Korea’s Kospi index lost 0.9 percent, the most among
major benchmark gauges in  Asia .  Overturning Achievements  The biggest developing nations risk overturning the
achievements of the past decade by increasing the state’s role
in the economy, according to  Nouriel Roubini . Brazil, Russia,
India and China have been moving away from market economies
recently, Roubini, dubbed Dr. Doom for predicting hard times
before the global financial crisis began in 2008, said.  “BRICs have been hyped up too much,” Roubini said in an
interview today at the  World Economic Forum ’s annual meeting in
Davos,  Switzerland . “Too much state role in enterprises, banks,
resource nationalization, protectionism, lack of structural
market-oriented reforms that increase the size of the private
sector -- this is happening in most of the BRICs.”  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, declined 0.3
percent to $44.16, the lowest since Dec. 28. The  Chicago Board
Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a
measure of options prices on the fund and expectations of price
swings, advanced 1.5 percent to 16.46.  New Homes  Purchases of new U.S. homes unexpectedly dropped in
December, with sales declining 7.3 percent to a 369,000 annual
pace, Commerce Department figures showed today in  Washington .
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.5 percent in its eighth
day of gains, the longest winning streak since 2004, as
Starbucks Corp. and  Procter & Gamble Co . reported increased
profit.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. fell for a third day, sliding 0.9
percent to 99.61 and extending its weekly slump to 2 percent,
the most in two months.  Ctrip.com International Ltd. (CTRP)  sank 13
percent on concern plans to offer discounted plane tickets will
reduce profit.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index slid 0.8 percent, the
steepest decline since Jan. 16. Vietnam’s  VN Index (VNINDEX)  jumped 3.5
percent, the largest gain in Asia. Mexico’s IPC Index added 0.3
percent.  Turkish Banks  Turkey’s  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  dropped 1.9 percent in its
steepest decline since May 23, while South Africa’s  FTSE/JSE
Africa All-Share Index (JALSH)  retreated 0.2 percent. Russia’s Micex
added 0.7 percent as oil advanced for a second day.  Garanti, the biggest Turkish bank by market value, and
Akbank, the lender part-owned by Citigroup Inc., lost 3.8
percent. Credit Suisse changed its view on Turkish banks to
neutral from positive, saying the net interest margin peaked in
2012 and banks are “vulnerable to potential risk factors that
the market has been neglecting.”  Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer, fell 1.8
percent in its second day of declines. Goldman Sachs cut the
stock from neutral, citing a negative outlook for aluminum
prices, according to an e-mailed note.  CEZ AS (CEZ) , the biggest Czech utility, had its worst weekly
slump in 16 months as the price of electricity tumbled to an
all-time low. The stock fell 0.8 percent to 617 koruna ($32.47)
in  Prague , adding to a weekly loss of 5.5 percent. That was the
lowest close since October 2008 and the steepest weekly retreat
since September 2011.  Gold Miners  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , Harmony Gold Mining Co. and  Gold
Fields Ltd. (GFI)  declined more than 2.5 percent in Johannesburg as
precious metal declined for a third day.  Cia de Minas
Buenaventura SA , Peru’s biggest precious-metals producer, and
Rio Alto Mining Ltd. declined in  Lima .  A  gauge  of technology stocks led declines among 10 industry
groups in the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index, falling 1.3 percent,
followed by industrial stocks. The broader measure has added 1.3
percent this year, trailing a 5 percent increase by the  MSCI
World Index. (MXWO)  The developing-nations index trades for 11 times
estimated profit, compared with the MSCI World’s multiple of
13.6, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Asian Currencies  Asian currencies fell this week, with the Bloomberg-
JPMorgan Asia  Dollar Index  snapping a four-week  rally , as a
slide in the Japanese yen fanned concern regional central banks
will intervene to prevent gains that may hurt exports. The won
had its biggest weekly drop since May after rising 8.3 percent
against the dollar in 2012. The  Thai baht  fell from a 17-month
high this week, snapping a seven-week rally. Malaysia’s ringgit
had its worst weekly slump since June.  Samsung  dropped  2.5 percent, declining for a third day. Kia
Motors, South Korea’s second-largest automaker, tumbled 4.9
percent.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , which owns 34 percent of Kia,
yesterday reported fourth-quarter profit that also missed
average analyst estimates. The stock sank 3.4 percent today.  Air China Ltd. (601111) , the nation’s biggest carrier by market
value, tumbled 6.1 percent, the most since Oct. 18, 2011. Jet
kerosene prices rose to the highest level since Jan. 10
yesterday, its sixth day of gains.  Reliance Communications Ltd. (RCOM) , India’s third-largest mobile-
phone company by subscribers, surged 7.6 percent, the biggest
gain in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index. The Economic Times
reported that the company is in talks with Reliance Industries
Ltd. to lease a telecommunications tower and sell a stake in a
tower unit.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  tumbled 10 basis points, or 0.10
percentage point, to 253, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  Emerging-market funds took 70 percent of this week’s total
equity inflow, EPFR Global said in an e-mailed report on Jan.
25. The pace of equity fund inflows ebbed for the week ended
Jan. 23 after the  International Monetary Fund  lowered its
forecast for global growth, EPFR said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net ;
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  