-- Energy Swaps Migrating to Futures on Dodd-Frank Rules
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-01-25T20:27:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/energy-swaps-migrating-to-futures-as-dodd-frank-rules-take-hold.html
More than half of the $18 trillion
in notional daily trading of energy swaps has moved to futures
exchanges from the over-the-counter market in response to the
U.S. regulatory overhaul aimed at increasing transparency
following the 2008 financial crisis.  Intercontinental Exchange Inc. (ICE)  said 52 percent of its
energy futures volumes during the first half of January came
from contracts that prior to Oct. 15 were traded as swaps.  CME
Group Inc. (CME)  said about 90 percent of energy trades on its
ClearPort system are executed as futures, compared with 10
percent before the switch.  Volumes have soared at the two largest U.S. futures
exchanges as oil and gas companies seek to avoid higher costs
that come from being designated a swaps dealer under the Dodd-
Frank Act, which the Commodity Futures Trading Commission said
is any firm that does more than $8 billion of the transactions
annually. The shift also helps Intercontinental and CME Group to
maintain their dominant clearing businesses.  “Dodd-Frank has this phobia of swaps and imposes more
onerous requirements on swap dealers,” said Craig Pirrong,
director of the Global Energy Management Institute at the
 University of Houston . In a direct response to the rules,
companies are avoiding higher collateral, capital and trading
expenses to “get the same trades and risk-management benefit”
with futures, he said.  Roundtable Meeting  The CFTC, which has been writing the swaps rules for more
than two years to improve oversight of a market that for three
decades had largely escaped federal regulation, has scheduled a
roundtable meeting on so-called futurization for Jan. 31. The
agency plans to meet with industry representatives to discuss
different collateral requirements between swaps and futures.  Swaps, which allow investors to speculate or hedge price
movements in underlying assets such as  interest rates , commodity
prices or corporate and sovereign creditworthiness, are being
regulated for the first time after their role in exacerbating
the financial seizure that followed the failure of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008.  CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler , in an Oct. 10 speech at George
 Washington  University in Washington, likened the efforts to
securities rules enacted in the 1930s.  ‘Bright Lights’  “Bright lights of transparency will shine,” he said.
“Dealers will have to come under comprehensive regulation.”  Overseas regulators including the Hong Kong Monetary
Authority and the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  have asked the CFTC
for more clarity on the international reach of its swaps rules.
The agency has since delayed action on this issue and asked for
more comment.  In 2011, CME Group reported 11 percent of its clearing and
trading fees revenue came from swaps on its ClearPort service,
which includes energy. The company earned on average $2.73 per
contract on ClearPort, compared with 76 cents for trades
executed on the exchange in the three months ended in November,
CME Group said in a Jan. 3 statement.  Intercontinental earned 34 percent of its total transaction
and clearing revenue from over-the-counter natural gas, power
and oil contracts in 2011, according to its annual filing.  The conversion of swaps into futures, which are agreements
to buy or sell a financial asset or commodity at a specific
price and time, is boosting market transparency, though not
necessarily as regulators anticipated.  Hedging Fuel  Energy companies from oil refiners to utilities that once
traded swaps now turn to block trades, which are privately
negotiated futures deals struck off the exchange that are then
entered into the CME Group or Intercontinental clearinghouse.
Energy swaps are typically used by businesses such as airlines
to lock in jet-fuel prices.  The prices and sizes of these trades that previously
cleared as swaps now are reported throughout the day on the
 website  of CME Group. The world’s largest futures exchange
didn’t report any information on the trades when they were
swaps, said Damon Leavell, a company spokesman.  Intercontinental is now required by law to report all
futures trades. Prior to the shift, the second-largest U.S.
futures market had displayed cleared swap prices to market users
and regulators, unless one or both counterparties requested the
trade remain undisclosed.  Margin Requirements  The clearinghouses, which collect margin at the beginning
of a trade, establish mark-to-market prices and ensure investors
can cover their losses for the life of the contract, have made
it more expensive to process some swaps than futures. Swaps can
be more difficult to price in case of an investor default.  The CME Group and Intercontinental clearinghouses require
five days’ worth of margin when interest-rate and credit-default
swaps are cleared, while for futures, the period ranges from one
to two days, depending on the contract.  Interest-rate or credit swaps are less likely to follow the
path of energy swaps into futures because it’s harder for banks
and other financial firms to stay below the $8 billion
threshold,  Terrence Duffy , executive chairman of CME Group, said
in a Jan. 17 interview in  New York .  Even with more business coming to futures because of Dodd-
Frank, “the swaps market’s not going away,” Duffy said.  Futures contracts based on the most-actively traded credit
swaps indexes are also being developed at Intercontinental.  Credit Swaps  The company said last year it plans to offer futures in the
first quarter based on credit-swap indexes belonging to Markit
Group Ltd., the largest creator of the derivative instruments in
the $23 trillion market. The gauges will reference London-based
Markit’s North American and European corporate credit swap
measures.  The market for swaps, in which investors trade payments for
as long as 30 years, is measured by notional value to calculate
money flows and doesn’t represent cash that has changed hands.  The notional value of  interest-rate swaps  totaled $379
trillion as of last June, according to the  Bank for
International Settlements  in  Basel , Switzerland. The credit swap
market stood at $23.5 trillion, according to the Depository
Trust & Clearing Corp.  Pirrong said more swaps won’t be turned into futures in the
rates and credit swap markets because of the CFTC threshold.
Instead, investors are more likely to use futures contracts such
as Eurodollars, which track interest-rate movements over three
months and settle to the London interbank offered rate, he said.  Dodd-Frank  CME Group began offering interest-rate swap futures in
December as another option for derivatives users to trade
futures instead of swaps. They’re bought and sold as futures and
convert into a cleared rate swap if the contract is delivered.  Congress passed Dodd-Frank in July 2010 to oversee the
unregulated over-the-counter  derivatives market  following the
financial crisis and the collapse of Lehman, one of the largest
swaps dealers. The millions of swap trades between banks made it
difficult for government officials to determine how
interconnected the firms had become.  The legislation also addressed several changes in the
regulated futures market that the CFTC has overseen since 1974.  Under Dodd-Frank, all swap prices and trades will be
required to be reported to data repositories so that regulators
can view the market. Most swaps will now be backed by
clearinghouses that collect margin and cancel any trade in which
investors can’t cover their losses so that risk doesn’t build in
the financial system.  All trades that are cleared must be
executed on exchanges or similar electronic systems.  Dealer Registration  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  were among the first banks to register swap-dealer divisions
under Dodd-Frank this month. In all, 65 trading units signed on,
including the biggest banks in the U.S., U.K.,  France ,  Germany ,
Switzerland and  Japan , according to the CFTC.  Intercontinental’s energy swaps market totaled $9.3
trillion in notional value in 2011, according to its annual
report. CME Group has a similar share of the business, according
to a person with knowledge of the matter who asked not to be
identified because the information isn’t public.  About 97 percent of the former energy swaps at
Intercontinental are now traded as futures, while at CME Group
they’ve transitioned 88 percent, according to the companies.  The change to futures from swaps resulted in an additional
1.36 million daily energy trades on average at Intercontinental
from Jan. 2-15, according to data from the company’s website.
That amounted to 52 percent of the average 2.6 million trades
across all its energy products over the same period.  Protection Concerns  Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , is part of a
coalition called Companies Supporting Competitive Derivatives
Markets, consisting of companies with swap-trading systems that
raised concerns futurization will result in fewer protections
for customers and less stringent margin rules. Other members
include GFI Group Inc., Thomson Reuters Corp., ICAP Plc and
Tradeweb Markets LLC.  Dodd-Frank encouraged competition in the swaps market by
allowing contracts to be executed and cleared at different
companies. For example, a swap bought on Tradeweb could be
cleared at LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd., CME Group or
Intercontinental.  In contrast, futures trading and clearing can only be done
at the same company, allowing Intercontinental and CME Group to
wall off their energy clearing from rivals.  Pushing swaps trading onto futures exchanges hands too much
control to Intercontinental and CME, Christopher Giancarlo,
executive vice president of GFI Group, told Bloomberg
Businessweek.  Interdealer brokers such as GFI “have not lost any
significant amount of business” from futurization, Giancarlo
said.  ‘Natural Progression’  The CFTC granted CME Group an extension to Dec. 31 for the
$8 billion level for swaps dealer to begin because the company
wasn’t ready for the change as of October.  CME Group and Intercontinental said they expect revenues
from clearing the block futures trades to remain the same as
when they were swaps as the fees are largely the same.  Given the level of complexity of the new rules, including
the $8 billion threshold, the migration to the futures market
reflects a “natural progression,” CFTC Commissioner  Scott O’Malia  said in a telephone interview.  “They were leaving behind a regulatory nightmare that is
the swap dealer definition,” said O’Malia, who said he doesn’t
oppose the trend. “How you compute up to the $8 billion de
minimis swap dealer level is anyone’s guess.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  