-- Kravis Claims Collector Bryant Reneged on Joint MoMA Gift
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e   a n d   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2013-01-25T21:51:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/henry-kravis-sues-over-agreement-to-donate-jasper-johns-art-1-.html
Henry Kravis , co-chairman of  KKR &
Co. (KKR) , sued collector Donald L. Bryant Jr. claiming he reneged on
an agreement to donate paintings by  Jasper Johns  to the Museum
of  Modern Art  in New York.  Kravis said Bryant violated their agreement to buy
“Tantric Detail I,” “Tantric Detail II,” and “Tantric
Detail III,” and ultimately give them to the museum, after
taking turns exhibiting them in their homes.  Bryant, a collector living in New York, is holding the
paintings “hostage” until Kravis agrees to new terms under
which the works wouldn’t be donated, the financier and his wife
said yesterday in a suit filed in state court in  Manhattan .  The set may be worth $15 million to $25 million,  Todd Levin , an art consultant and director of the New York-based
Levin Art Group, said in a telephone interview.  Kravis and his wife, Marie-Josee Kravis, are affirming
their rights to possess the art and “ensuring that promises
made to Jasper Johns and to MoMA by Mr. Bryant -- that these
masterpieces will be donated to MoMA -- are upheld,” a lawyer
representing the financier, Gregory Joseph, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Bryant didn’t respond to a message seeking comment on the
lawsuit.  Three Paintings  The trio of works, completed in 1980 and 1981, has been
widely exhibited and studied, MoMA said in an announcement of
the promised gift in July 2008.  No value for the paintings was listed in the lawsuit.
Kravis paid half of the purchase price, according to the
complaint.  Considered one of the most important living American
artists, Johns, 82, in the 1950s began painting  images  from
popular culture, including the American flag, maps and targets.  Art Prices  In 2010, hedge fund founder  Steven A. Cohen  bought a 1958
“Flag” by Johns for about $110 million, the New York Times
reported, citing unidentified art experts. The same year,
Johns’s 1960-1966 American flag painting fetched $28.6 million
at auction.  “Tantric Detail I,” “Tantric Detail II,” and “Tantric
Detail III” show a cross-hatched pattern, John’s signature
style for almost a decade starting in 1974. The lower half of
each canvas has an image of a skull and the upper part depicts
pair of testicles.  “The overt sexuality is unusual for Jasper Johns,” Levin
said. “If there’s a figurative element in his work, it’s
usually used as a symbol. In this case, it really is a skull and
a pair of balls.”  Ex-Board Member  Marie-Josee Kravis is president of MoMA’s board of
trustees, according to the museum website. Bryant was a trustee
when the gift was announced and has since left the board.
Margaret Doyle, a museum spokeswoman, declined to comment today
on the suit.  In November, Bryant sold  Andy Warhol ’s 1966 portrait of
leather-clad  Marlon Brando  on a motorcycle at Christie’s where
it fetched $23.7 million. He paid $5 million for the work in
2003.  The Kravises asked in his suit that Bryant be ordered to
turn the trio of the Johns works over to them and fulfill the
previous agreement to offer the paintings as a gift.  The agreement obliges Bryant and the Kravises to bequeath
the pictures to the museum or donate them while living,
according to the complaint. Until then each was to have
alternating possession of all three for a calendar year at a
time.  “Mr. Bryant now refuses to transfer the art works to Mr.
and Mrs. Kravis in accordance with their agreements and
consistent with their uniform past practice,” according to the
complaint. “Instead, as a condition to parting even temporarily
with the art works, Mr. Bryant has demanded a new agreement”
that would, “repudiate the promised gift of the Art Works to
MoMA.”  The case is Kravis v. Bryant, 150705-2013,  New York  State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York
at   csmythe1@bloomberg.net ;
Katya Kazakina in New York
at   kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Manuela Hoelterhoff at   mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 