-- EPA Cellulosic Biofuel Regulation Rejected by Court
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-01-25T20:34:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/epa-cellulosic-biofuel-regulation-rejected-by-court.html
An Environmental Protection Agency
rule mandating refiners generate or purchase advanced biofuels
was overturned by a federal appeals court in  Washington , after
producers failed to make any commercial supplies last year.  The  American Petroleum Institute , an oil and gas trade
association, last year asked the court to overturn the EPA
standard setting mandates in 2012 for production and sale of the
cellulosic fuels, which can be made from materials including
wood chips, switchgrass or agricultural waste.  The three-judge panel today rejected that target and sent
it back to the EPA to come up with a new mandate. While the EPA
set a standard for refiners of 8.65 million gallons of
cellulosic ethanol in 2012, the actual U.S. production was
20,000 gallons -- and those were exported to  Brazil .  “Apart from their role as captive consumers, the refiners
are in no position to ensure, or even contribute to, growth in
the cellulosic biofuel industry,” the court said in a 14-page
ruling. According to the court, the EPA rule tells producers,
“Do a good job, cellulosic fuel producers. If you fail, we’ll
fine your customers.”  The biofuels decision was one of two setbacks the
Washington-based appellate court handed President  Barack Obama ’s
administration today and the second loss there for the EPA in as
many days.  Second Defeat  A panel of three different judges today rejected the
president’s ability to appoint three members of the  National
Labor Relations Board  during what he asserted was a U.S. Senate
recess.  Yesterday, the full court declined to review an earlier
ruling throwing out EPA regulations designed to cut cross-state
pollution from coal-fired  power plants .  Wyn Hornbuckle, a spokesman for the U.S. Justice
Department, said by phone that the government’s lawyers are
reviewing the court’s biofuels ruling. The EPA too said in a
statement that it is “reviewing the decision and will determine
next steps.”  Tossing out the 2012 standard for those cellulosic fuels,
which can be made from switchgrass or plant waste materials,
leaves the 2013 standard in doubt, as well. The EPA is overdue
to issue its mandate for 2013, and this decision may further
complicate that process.  ‘No Production’  “We’ve had three years of mandates, and each year there
has been no production” Bob Greco, a director for the
Washington-based petroleum institute, said in an interview. “We
would hope EPA would scrutinize whatever mandate they have going
forward to make sure they match reality.”  As a result of the ruling and uncertainty, investments in
the nascent industry may fall, said Michael Frohlich, a
spokesman for Growth Energy, which represents ethanol producers.  “It dampens any future investment, and creates a further
level of vulnerability,” Frohlich said.  The case is American Petroleum Institute v. U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, 12-1139,  U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the District of Columbia Circuit (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  