-- Erdogan Cabinet Changes May Boost Turkey’s PKK Peace Initiative
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2013-01-25T09:13:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/erdogan-cabinet-changes-may-boost-turkey-s-pkk-peace-initiative.html
Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s appointment of a new interior minister as part of a
Cabinet reshuffle may boost the government’s efforts to end a
decades-long war with Kurdish militants, according to analysts.  Erdogan appointed four new ministers late yesterday.
Muammer Guler, a former governor of Istanbul, will take over as
interior minister. His predecessor, Idris Naim Sahin, had
angered Kurds with hawkish remarks over a botched aerial attack
that killed 34 civilians instead of PKK militants.  Turkey  is in talks with  Abdullah Ocalan , the jailed leader
of the Kurdistan Workers’ Party or PKK, in an effort to end a
conflict that began in the early 1980s and has left about 40,000
people dead. The group, which has bases in northern  Iraq , is
demanding autonomy for Turkey’s largely Kurdish southeast, the
right to education in Kurdish, and the release of Ocalan and
other prisoners.  Guler’s appointment “might prove to be a medium/long-run
positive” if he can play a more constructive role in talks with
the PKK,  Inan Demir , chief economist at Finansbank AS, said in
an e-mailed report. “Resolution of Turkey’s age-old Kurdish
conflict could significantly reduce Turkey’s risk premium and it
would constitute the ultimate argument for re-rating Turkish
economy and assets.”  No Apology  Sahin had ruled out talks with the PKK a year ago. After
the killing of Kurdish civilians in Uludere, near the Iraq
border, by Turkish jets in December 2011, Sahin said the victims
were smugglers who would have been prosecuted if they had been
captured instead of killed. “It’s not an incident which
requires an apology” by the state, he said.  Guler was born in Mardin province in the southeast, and
that “gives him a better understanding of the region,” said
Nihat Ali Ozcan, a security analyst at the Economic Policy
Research Foundation in Ankara. “Guler is likely to handle the
delicate Kurdish policy more cautiously based on his long years
of experience as governor in several provinces.”  Erdogan also sacked Culture and Tourism Minister Ertugrul Gunay, replacing him with Omer Celik, a longtime confidante of
the premier.  Local media reported that Gunay fell from Erdogan’s favor
after he sought to interpret the premier’s description of an
unfinished statute in the eastern city of Kars as a “freak”
because it overshadowed a nearby Islamic shrine. The statue,
intended to promote reconciliation between Turkey and  Armenia ,
was demolished within four months of Erdogan’s visit to the site
in January 2011.  Steinbeck ‘Immoral’  Gunay had also called on the Education Ministry on Jan. 3
to overrule a local education board in the Western city of Izmir
that had called for the removal of John Steinbeck’s novel “Of
Mice and Men” from the curriculum because several passages were
“immoral.”  Erdogan appointed another longtime adviser, Nabi Avci, as
education minister to replace Omer Dincer. Avci is regarded as
the architect of changes to the education system this academic
year that opened the way for elective religious courses in
elementary schools, a measure popular with the grassroots of
Erdogan’s Islamic-rooted Justice and Development Party.  The other change was at the Health Ministry, where Recep Akdag, who had held his seat in the Cabinet since Erdogan came
to power in 2002, was replaced by Mehmet Muezzinoglu.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  