-- Ernie Ball, ‘Kaepernicking,’ MGA: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-01-25T12:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/ernie-ball-kaepernicking-news-corp-intellectual-property.html
Ernie Ball Inc., musical instruments
maker, lost its patent-infringement case against a developer of
tuning systems for string instruments.  The San Luis Obispo, California-based company sued  Earvana
LLC  for patent infringement in federal court in Riverside,
 California , in April 2006, claiming its patent 6,433,264 was
infringed. The patent covered a device for a string instrument
that helps govern the pitch of the strings.  In January 2011 the trial court found that Earvana had
infringed the patent, awarded Ernie Ball $165,000 in damages,
and ordered the Paso Robles, California-based defendant to halt
activities that infringed the patent.  Earvana then filed an appeal to the Washington-based
appellate court that hears patent cases.  The appeals court reversed the infringement verdict
yesterday, saying that the patent was invalid. The claims the
patent asserted were so vague that they failed on the grounds
patent law calls indefiniteness, the court said.  The lower court case is Ernie Ball Inc. v. Earvana, 5:06-
cv-00384-JNH-OP, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California (Riverside). The appellate case is Ernie Ball v.
Earvana, 12-01276,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit
( Washington ).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Kaepernick Follows Tebow’s Lead, Seeks ‘Kaepernicking’ Trademark  Colin Kaepernick, the San Francisco 49er’s quarterback who
threw four touchdown passes in the National Football League
playoff game against the  New England Patriots , has filed an
application to register a trademark, according to the database
of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  He’s seeking to register “ Kaepernicking ” as a trademark.
The term has been used to describe the player’s victory-
celebration practice of flexing his pass-throwing arm and
kissing his bicep.  According to the application  Kaepernick  filed Jan. 14, he
plans to use the mark on t-shirts. In seeking the trademark,
Kaepernick is following the lead of  New York Jets  quarterback
 Tim Tebow , who registered “Tebowing” as a trademark Dec. 25
last year.  That word came about because Tebow, a devout Christian, has
the practice of kneeling in prayer at the end of a game. The
patent office  rejected some applications  for “Tebowing” filed
by others because the applicants lacked the player’s permission
for the use of his name, according to patent office documents.  Kaepernick will lead the 49ers against the  Baltimore Ravens 
in the 2013 National Football League Super Bowl in  New Orleans 
Feb. 3.  News Corp. Wins Dismissal of Religious Broadcaster’s Suit  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Television Studios unit didn’t infringe a
trademark held by a developer of religious television
programming, a federal court in  Iowa  has ruled.  Louis Scorpiniti of  Des Moines , Iowa, sued Fox in federal
court in Cedar Rapids May 2011, claiming that his “The Gate”
trademark was infringed by a Fox television series, “The
Gates.” He claimed that his business opportunities to exploit
his mark and expand his broadcast offerings were harmed when
potential investors learned of the Fox series.  He also alleged that the public was likely to be confused
by the name similarity and that his business reputation was
harmed.  In her Jan. 23 order, U.S. District Judge Linda R. Reade
said Scorpiniti’s mark was weak. He failed to demonstrate any
actual evidence of consumer confusion, she said, adding that in
any case, the parties’ businesses were sufficiently different
that the public could distinguish them.  Reade took exception to evidence Scorpiniti presented to
advance his claim of customer confusion, saying “statements by
Scorpiniti’s former girlfriend and the unidentified man at the
bar are hearsay.”  She also rejected his request for damages.  The case is Scorpiniti v. Fox Television Studios Inc., 1-
11-cv-00064-LRR, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Iowa
(Cedar Rapids).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  ‘Spider-Man’ Producers, Taymor Reach Settlement, Lawyer Says  The producers of the Broadway musical “ Spider-Man: Turn
Off the Dark ” settled a lawsuit brought by the show’s fired
director,  Julie Taymor , two weeks after a judge set a May 27
trial date, a lawyer for Taymor said.  U.S. District Judge Katherine Forrest in  New York , who is
presiding over the case, on Jan. 10 restored the case to her
active court calendar, saying that while both sides told her in
August they had agreed to a tentative settlement over royalties
and creative control, they hadn’t completed it.  “The parties have now reached an agreement on terms to
settle the above litigation and have a fully drafted settlement
agreement that the parties are ready to execute,”  Charles T.
Spada , a lawyer for Taymor, wrote to Forrest in a Jan. 22 letter
made public the following day.  Spada didn’t immediately return a voice-mail message left
at his office seeking comment on the settlement.  Dale Cendali , a
lawyer for the show’s producers, 8 Legged Productions, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  Taymor was removed from the $75 million show in March 2011,
after critics lambasted it during an extended 182-performance
preview period. She sued the producers in November 2011, saying
they violated her  intellectual-property  rights by making changes
without her permission and didn’t pay royalties due her as a co-
book writer.  In 2003, producers began negotiating with Marvel
Entertainment, a unit of  The Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  that owns the
rights to the character, about staging “Spider-Man” on
Broadway, according to Taymor’s suit.  The original producing team asked Bono and The Edge of the
band U2 to write a score and Taymor to direct. In 2004, she
wrote a three-page treatment for the show and the following year
she registered it with the U.S. Copyright Office, according to
her suit.  In her complaint, Taymor said that as the musical’s co-
author she was owed guaranteed minimum royalties of $2,917.50 a
week. The producers agreed in February to pay her director’s
royalties as part of a settlement with the Stage Directors and
Choreographers Society.  In his letter to the court, Spada said the settlement had
been conditional upon 8 Legged Productions and non-party Marvel
Entertainment entering into a separate agreement to amend 8
Legged’s license to produce the Spider-Man musical.  The case is Taymor v. 8 Legged Productions LLC, 11-cv-
08002, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  MGA’s Bratz Trade Secret Win Over Mattel Erased on Appeal  MGA Entertainment Inc.’s $162.5 million victory over rival
toymaker  Mattel Inc. (MAT)  for theft of  trade secrets  was thrown out
by a federal appeals court that said the counterclaims shouldn’t
have been allowed to go to the jury.  The three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals in  San
Francisco  in a ruling yesterday upheld the trial judge’s
decision to award closely held MGA $137.2 million for having to
defend against Mattel’s claims that MGA’s Bratz dolls infringed
Mattel’s copyrights.  “At one point, a copyright defendant had to show that the
plaintiff’s claim was frivolous or made in bad faith in order to
be entitled to fees; but no longer,” the panel said. “Even
assuming Mattel’s claim was objectively reasonable, the district
court didn’t abuse its discretion in awarding MGA fees.”  It was the second time the three judges reversed the
outcome of a trial in the eight-year battle between Mattel, the
maker of Barbie, and MGA, which Mattel accused of stealing the
idea for its Bratz dolls. In 2010, the panel reversed a trial
judge’s ruling that had given Mattel almost complete ownership
of MGA’s Bratz brand.  Mattel at the second trial in  Santa Ana , California, lost
on its copyright infringement claim, a result that it didn’t
contest on appeal. The toymaker appealed U.S. District Judge
 David Carter ’s decision to allow MGA to bring counterclaims in
the case that Mattel said were unrelated to the underlying
lawsuit.  The trial jury awarded MGA $88.5 million in damages on its
claims that Mattel employees used fake business cards to get
access to MGA’s booths at toy fairs and obtain MGA’s trade
secrets. The judge later reduced the verdict to $85 million and
then doubled it by adding $85 million in punitive damages.  The appellate panel agreed with Mattel that MGA’s
counterclaims weren’t “compulsory” in that they weren’t based
on the same underlying facts as Mattel’s trade secret-theft
claims against MGA. As such, the judge had erred by allowing
MGA’s claims to be part of the case, the panel said.  “That both Mattel and MGA claimed they stole each other’s
trade secrets isn’t enough to render MGA’s counterclaim
compulsory,” the panel said. “What matters is not the legal
theory but the facts.”  Lisa Marie Bongiovanni, a spokeswoman for El Segundo,
California-based Mattel, and Susan Hale, a spokeswoman for  Van
Nuys , California-based MGA, didn’t immediately respond to e-
mailed requests for comment on the ruling.  The case is Mattel Inc. v. MGA Entertainment Inc., 11-
56357, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San
Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 