-- Hertfordshire Pension Makes First Allocation to Hedge Funds
-- B y   C h r i s   L a r s o n
-- 2013-01-25T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/hertfordshire-pension-makes-first-allocation-to-hedge-funds.html
The public pension for employees of
the  Hertfordshire County Council , in the commuter belt north of
 London , is making its first hedge-fund investments to reduce its
weighting in equities and boost returns.  The 2.5 billion-pound ($3.9 billion) fund hired LGT Capital
Partners Ltd. to manage 280 million pounds across several
alternative asset classes, including placing as much as 70
million pounds in hedge funds, said David Lloyd, chairman of its
pensions committee and the investment subcommittee.  Hertfordshire’s move is mainly for diversification, Lloyd
said in a telephone interview. About two-thirds of the fund had
been allocated to equities, with most of the remainder in fixed
income as well as small investments in private-equity and real-
estate funds, he said. Public pension plans are looking to
diversify their investments to help ensure that they can meet
their future obligations to retirees.  “We didn’t feel the portfolio had moved to where it
needed to be,” Lloyd said. “We were fairly dominated by equity
risk, and we thought a better balance was required.”  Many public pensions, already underfunded, have
underperformed their investment targets amid volatile equity
markets and low interest rates that crimp returns on bonds.  Fund of Funds  Lloyd said the English county decided to allocate 11
percent of the pension fund’s assets to “a diversified
alternative mandate” after a review of its asset allocation by
Mercer, a consulting firm, in 2011. The shift to alternatives
will be funded by moving money out of equities, Lloyd said.  LGT, a Pfaeffikon, Switzerland-based fund-of-funds manager,
will invest the money in hedge funds, private equity, insurance-
linked securities and commodities. The Swiss firm will have some
discretion over the hedge-fund strategies it chooses for
Hertfordshire’s mandate, and the exact investment plan has yet
to be finalized.  Hertfordshire’s move makes it “one of the largest mandates
focused exclusively on alternative investments ever awarded by a
U.K. local authority pension fund,” LGT said in a statement.  The firm manages about 3.9 billion pounds in such multi-
alternatives portfolios, said Thomas Weber, a managing partner
at LGT. He said the majority of those assets come from pensions
across  Europe .  “Over the last few years, we’ve seen an increased demand
for such combined offerings,” Weber said by phone. “There is
an interest, especially among smaller- to medium-sized pensions,
that don’t have the resources themselves and want this kind of
one-stop shop.”  LGT Capital Partners manages about $6 billion in hedge fund
investments within its $25 billion of total assets, according to
its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Larson in London at 
 clarson22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  