-- Tetangco Sees Philippine Investment-Grade Rating in First Half
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t
-- 2013-01-25T05:38:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/tetangco-sees-philippine-investment-grade-rating-in-first-half.html
The  Philippines  is poised to get its
first investment-grade  credit rating  this year and the central
bank is prepared to unveil additional measures to deal with a
possible surge in capital inflows, Governor Amando Tetangco said.  “We think we’ll achieve it this year and most probably in
the first half,” Tetangco said about the rating in an interview
on Bloomberg Television today. “We have allowed greater
flexibility in the  exchange rate , but we also reserve the right
to participate in the foreign-exchange market to smoothen
sharper movements. We stand ready to implement additional
measures as may be appropriate.”  The Southeast Asian economy has the highest junk rating at
Moody’s Investors Service,  Fitch Ratings  and  Standard & Poor’s ,
and President  Benigno Aquino  said in his speech in Davos this
week that the nation is “on the cusp” of becoming investment
grade. S&P, which raised the outlook on the country’s debt to
positive last month, said an upgrade is possible this year,
citing improved governance and public finances.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas yesterday reduced the rate it
pays on almost 1.7 trillion pesos ($42 billion) in its  special
deposit accounts  to 3 percent even as it held the benchmark
overnight borrowing rate at a record-low 3.5 percent. The peso
climbed to the strongest level in almost five years this month.  “In most  emerging markets  there has been an increase in
capital inflows and this has led to an appreciation of local
currencies,” Tetangco said today. “What central banks have
done is really to expand their toolkit so they’re no longer
dependent on policy rates.”  The cut will lower the central bank’s costs, curb currency
speculation and help spur lending, Credit Suisse Group AG said
in a note yesterday. The peso fell 0.2 percent to 40.695 per
dollar at the noon break in  Manila , according to Tullett Prebon
Plc. It rose to 40.55 on Jan. 14, the strongest since March 2008.  The yield on benchmark three-year bonds fell 29 basis
points to 3.47 percent, the lowest in a year, according to
midday fixing prices at Philippine Dealing & Exchange Corp.  Bangko Sentral expects  inflation  to average 3 percent this
year and 3.2 percent in 2014. The economy expanded 7.1 percent
in the third quarter, the fastest in Southeast Asia. Data for
the final three months of 2012 is due on Jan. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  