-- EU Nations Said Stalled on Carbon Fix After Prices Plunge
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-01-25T17:57:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/eu-meeting-on-carbon-law-fix-said-to-bring-no-breakthrough.html
European Union governments failed to
reach a breakthrough today on a rescue plan for the world’s
biggest carbon market after prices of emission allowances
slumped a record 40 percent yesterday, three EU officials said.  Representatives of national governments in Brussels
gathered today to resume talks about a draft amendment to the EU
emissions trading law that would pave a way for a separate
measure to curb oversupply. Some  member states  said in the
meeting that they were disappointed by carbon prices, which
tumbled to a record low of 2.81 euros ($3.78) a metric ton
yesterday, according to the officials with knowledge of the
matter.  At stake is the fate of the 54 billion-euro EU emissions
trading system after an excess of allowances caused by an
economic crisis drove prices down as much as 91 percent from a
record in April 2006. Carbon permits for delivery this year lost
5 percent to 4.11 euros a ton today on  London ’s ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The EU system doesn’t allow any price floors or
ceilings.  The strategy by the European Commission to alleviate
oversupply by delaying sales of some permits divided
governments, industry organizations and lawmakers, sparking
questions whether the EU needs the cap-and-trade system.  Germany , which according to  Trevor Sikorski , an analyst at
Barclays Plc in London, holds the key to the success of the
proposal, reiterated today it hasn’t adopted a position on the
plan yet, according to the officials, who spoke on the condition
of anonymity. Many countries also remain undecided, they said.  Market Fix  Poland , which relies on coal for more than 90 percent of
its electricity, confirmed it will oppose the market fix, known
as backloading, the officials said.  The U.K. presented some conditions for approving the rescue
plan, while signaling flexibility, they said. Discussions on the
legal  amendment  are set to continue on Feb. 20, one day after a
vote on the measure in the European Parliament’s environment
committee.  The final position of the German government will probably
remain “a source of significant uncertainty” and may continue
to weigh on  market sentiment , said Itamar Orlandi, a London-
based analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “As the vote in the Parliament is likely to be tight, it
is possible that the opponents inside Germany’s cabinet will not
publicly signal flexibility as long as other bodies can still
cause the backloading proposal to fail,” he said.  Market Interference  EU governments will closely watch the vote in the
environment committee after the assembly’s industry panel, which
has an advisory role in this legislative process, recommended
rejecting the carbon market rescue plan yesterday, the officials
said. Opponents of backloading in the industry committee argued
that a delay of sales of 900 million carbon permits proposed by
the European Commission would amount to market interference and
hurt the industry’s competitiveness.  Members of the environment committee, which is leading work
on the draft measure in the Parliament, proposed more than 40
amendments to the one-sentence law fix by the commission.
Matthias Groote, the panel’s head who supervises the proposal in
the assembly, said yesterday a compromise was possible.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  