-- Europe to Seek Assurance Latin America Won’t Follow Chavez Way
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2013-01-25T14:02:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/europe-to-seek-assurance-latin-america-won-t-follow-chavez-way.html
European Union leaders will look for
investment opportunities in Latin America this weekend as they
seek reassurance the region won’t follow  Argentina  and Venezuela
in expropriating foreign assets.  German Chancellor Angela Merkel and Spain’s Prime Minister
Mariano Rajoy are among 43 heads of state flying into Santiago
for a summit of the European Union and the Community of Latin
American and Caribbean States that starts tomorrow. Across the
table from European leaders will be Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, who seized Spain’s  Repsol SA (REP) ’s 51 percent
stake in Buenos Aires-based YPF SA last year.  European companies, the biggest foreign investors in Latin
America, are looking for opportunities in a region that has
grown three-times faster than Europe in the past decade, has a
burgeoning middle class and needs billions of dollars in
infrastructure investment. The seizure of companies in
Argentina,  Venezuela  and  Bolivia  last year will act as a
cautionary tale, said Diana Villiers Negroponte, a non-resident
senior fellow at the Brookings Institution.  “Investment opportunities are now limited in Europe, and
there are opportunities in Latin America energy and
infrastructure” industries, Negroponte said by phone from
 Washington  on Jan. 23. “European companies are going to have to
be careful, which is why joint ventures may be the preferred way
forward. I’d still be very nervous about investing in Argentina,
and Bolivia has its problems too.”  Argentina seized YPF last year after Fernandez said it had
failed to invest in the country’s largest oil producer.
Bolivia’s army and police in December occupied the offices of
Iberdrola SA hours after President Evo Morales ordered the
nationalization of four business units owned by the Spanish
energy company.  Direct Investment  The conference kicks off today with meetings of business
executives, including the heads of Madrid-based Endesa SA and
 France ’s GDF Suez.  Endesa controls Endesa Chile, which owns a 51 percent stake
in the country’s largest hydroelectric project, HidroAysen,
currently stalled amid disputes over its environmental impact.
GDF Suez has energy assets in Argentina,  Brazil , Chile,  Peru  and
Central America, including the Guanacaste wind farm in Costa
Rica.  The EU’s share of foreign direct investment in Latin
American dropped to 40 percent between 2006 and 2010 from 43
percent in the previous six years as the global financial crisis
sapped funds,  according to the United Nations . It still exceeds
investment from any other region.  Venezuela Seizures  Total foreign direct investment plummeted 20 percent in the
first half of 2012 from the previous year in Venezuela, whose
President Hugo Chavez has nationalized more than 1,000 companies
or their assets during his 14 years in office, including Madrid-
based  Santander SA (SAN) ’s local unit.  European delegates probably will use the summit as an
opportunity to work with other countries in the region to ensure
they don’t follow the path set by Argentina and Venezuela,
Claudia Schmucker, head of the globalization and world economy
program at the German Council on Foreign Relations, said by
phone on Jan. 23 from Berlin.  “We want to make sure in bilateral talks that this is not
the general direction the region is going,” Schmucker said.
“So I would think we’d try to give another push to the
countries that we really like and hope that they won’t go in
that direction.”  ‘Different Directions’  Europeans will prefer to invest in countries that are seen
as more friendly to foreign investors such as Colombia,  Chile ,
 Mexico  and Peru, Michael Shifter, president of the Washington-
based Inter-American Dialogue, said by phone Jan. 22.  Chile has the most open trade policies of any country in
Latin America and ranks 14th in the world, followed in the
region by Uruguay, Costa Rica, Peru,  Panama  and Mexico,
according to the World Economic Forum’s 2012  ranking of 132
countries  for trade openness.  Brazil, Latin America’s biggest economy, ranks 84th,
followed by Argentina at 96 and Venezuela at 130.  “This is a Latin America moving in lots of different
directions,” Shifter said. “In terms of its relationship with
Europe, I think there will be some set of countries that are
going to be very, very interested in deepening their commercial
relationship, and  Europe  will find some that are very high
risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  