-- European Stocks Post Weekly Gain on German Confidence
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-01-26T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/european-stocks-post-weekly-gain-on-german-confidence.html
European stocks  posted a weekly
gain, rising to a 23-month high, as German investor confidence
climbed to the highest in 2 1/2 years and U.S. lawmakers voted
to temporarily suspend the government’s borrowing limit.  Unilever, the world’s second-largest consumer-goods maker,
surged the most in in 15 months after revenue growth beat
estimates. EasyJet Plc rose to a record as the airline’s sales
increased in the three months to December. Banca Monte dei
Paschi di Siena SpA fell 12 percent amid concern losses from
derivatives contracts are threatening the lender’s earnings.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  added 0.9 percent to 289.72 this
past week, snapping two weeks of losses to close at the highest
level since Feb. 18, 2011. The gauge has advanced 3.6 percent in
2013 as U.S. lawmakers agreed on a budget deal averting spending
cuts and tax increased that had threatened to push the world’s
biggest economy into a recession.  “Some of the dark clouds over the market are starting to
dissipate,”  Henk Potts , who helps oversee $282 billion as an
equity strategist at Barclays Plc in London, said in a phone
interview this week. “It has reassured a lot of investors which
means we are able to start looking again at the cheap valuations
and bright corporate picture.”  Some 60 percent of western European companies to have
reported results since Jan. 8 exceeded analysts’ earnings
estimates, according to data Bloomberg data. Profits at
companies in the Stoxx 600 will grow 9.2 percent in 2013,
projections compiled by Bloomberg show.  Debt Ceiling  The U.S. House of Representatives approved legislation to
suspend the $16.4 trillion federal borrowing limit until May 19.
President  Barack Obama  had accused Republicans of holding the
nation hostage and risking a default by using the debt ceiling
to push for further cuts to government spending.  In  Germany , investor confidence increased to a 2 1/2-year
high in January. The ZEW Center for European Economic Research
in Mannheim said its  index  of investor and analyst expectations
climbed to 31.5 from 6.9 in December.  A measure of euro-area services and manufacturing output
contracted at a slower pace this month than economists had
estimated. A composite index based on a survey of purchasing
managers in both industries rose to 48.2 from 47.2 in December,
Markit Economics said. A reading below 50 indicates that
activity shrank.  ECB Loans  The European Central Bank said financial firms will repay
more of its emergency three-year loans than forecast in another
sign the region’s debt crisis is abating. Some 278 financial
institutions will return 137.2 billion euros ($185 billion) on
Jan. 30, the first opportunity for early repayment of the
initial three-year loan, compared with the median projection of
84 billion euros in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  National benchmark indexes rose in 16 of the 18 western
European markets this week.  France ’s CAC 40 added 1 percent and
Germany’s DAX Index gained 2 percent. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index
advanced 2.1 percent even as Britain’s economy shrank a more-
than-forecast 0.3 percent in the fourth quarter.  Unilever advanced 4.3 percent in London trading to the
highest level since at least 1988. The consumer-goods company
reported revenue growth that beat estimates for a third straight
quarter, led by gains in North and South America and demand for
personal-care products.  EasyJet surged 8.4 percent, its biggest increase in nine
weeks. The discount airline rose to its highest price since its
initial public offering in November 2000 after saying quarterly
sales increased 9.2 percent.  Airlines Climb  A gauge of  travel and leisure companies  in the Stoxx 600
rose to the highest in almost five years as Air France-KLM Group
and Ryanair Holdings Plc rallied 9.8 percent and 3.9 percent
respectively.  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA, the parent of
British Airways, added 7 percent, rising for a fourth week.
Credit Suisse Group AG and JPMorgan Chase & Co. both upgraded
their recommendations on the stock.  Vallourec SA, which produces steel pipes for the oil and
gas industry, soared 10 percent, its biggest weekly advance in
two months, as euro-area manufacturing data beat estimates.  Rightmove Plc rallied 7.2 percent, its biggest weekly
advance in 17 months, as analysts at Barclays Plc and UBS AG
recommended the shares. The owner of the U.K.’s largest
residential property website said the number of sellers coming
to market this month is 22 percent higher than a year ago.  Monte Paschi, the world’s oldest bank, sank 12 percent for
the biggest drop since July.  Italy ’s central bank said Jan. 23
that the lender hid documents from regulators on deals that may
prompt the bank to restate profit.  The company said on Jan. 17 it will review its accounts
after Bloomberg News reported the lender engaged in a derivative
with Deutsche Bank AG in 2008, dubbed “Project Santorini,”
that obscured losses before it sought a government bailout the
next year.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  slid 7 percent after the phone maker reported a
seventh straight drop in quarterly revenue and said it will omit
a dividend for the first time in at least 143 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in  London  at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  