-- Ex-Barclays CEO Diamond Is Named on Latest Libor-Lawsuit List
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-01-25T12:52:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/ex-barclays-ceo-diamond-is-named-on-latest-libor-lawsuit-list.html
Ex- Barclays Plc (BARC)  Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Diamond  and Former Chief Operating Officer Jerry Del Missier were among 25 bank employees anonymously referred to
by regulators when the lender was fined for attempted interest
rate rigging.  Diamond and Del Missier were included on a second list
released in a  London  court case linking Barclays staff to the
London interbank offered rate. Judge Julian Flaux refused a
request by some employees to prevent their names being published
in connection to the case.  Barclays, based in London, was fined 290 million pounds
($458 million) over the Libor scandal by U.S. and U.K.
regulators last year. The identities of bank executives and
employees specifically mentioned in the agencies’ findings were
protected until being released today.  Barclays is being sued by affiliates of Guardian Care Homes
Ltd. in a lawsuit over a swap contract linked to Libor. The
Wolverhampton, England based-company is seeking to learn the
identities of bank employees linked to Libor in preparation for
a trial scheduled for later this year.  The names come from a longer list of individuals identified
in material Barclays gave to regulators. The initial list,
released yesterday, included more than 100 Barclays employees
who were identified by regulators during their investigation.  No Merit  “The fact that someone’s documents were reviewed by the
bank during its review of millions of documents does not mean
that such person was involved in any wrongdoing,” Barclays
spokesman Simon Eaton said in an e-mail. Barclays believes the
Guardian case has no merit.  Also included in the short-list of people mentioned in the
regulatory notice were Mark Dearlove, head of the bank’s money-
market desk, and Stephen Morse, its former compliance chief.  Kevin Roberts  and Gerard Cukier, two lawyers for the
Barclays staff who sought anonymity, didn’t immediately respond
to e-mails seeking comment. A spokesman for Diamond declined to
comment yesterday.  The case is Graiseley Properties Ltd. & Ors. v. Barclays
Bank Plc,  High Court  of Justice, Queen’s Bench Division
Commercial Court, No. 12-1259.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  