-- Ex-Banker Accused of Aiding Olympus Fraud Wins Bail
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-01-25T20:40:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/ex-singapore-banker-chan-ming-fon-wins-bail-in-olympus-case.html
A former  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and  Societe
Generale SA (GLE)  banker charged with aiding  Olympus Corp. (7733) ’s $1.7
billion accounting fraud was granted bail by a federal judge in
New York.  U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain ruled today that
Chan Ming Fon, a citizen of  Taiwan  who lives in  Singapore , may
be released on a $5 million bond to be secured with $1 million
cash and $4.5 million in properties located in the U.S.,  Japan 
and Singapore. He was arrested Dec. 20 in Los Angeles.  Chan, who was indicted Jan. 17, is charged with one count
of conspiracy to commit  wire fraud  for allegedly helping the
Tokyo-based maker of cameras and medical equipment hide losses
from investors and regulators. Assistant U.S. Attorney Bonnie
Brooks Jonas told Swain today the government plans to add more
charges, including  money laundering . Chan faces as many as 20
years in prison on the conspiracy charge.  Olympus in 2011 restated five years of earnings and took a
$1.3 billion cut in net assets after the company admitted it
paid inflated fees on takeovers and overpaid for three companies
to conceal past investment losses. In September, three former
Olympus executives including ex-Chairman Tsuyoshi Kikukawa
pleaded guilty to their roles in the accounting fraud.  The losses at Olympus were exposed by  Michael Woodford  a
few months after he was appointed as the company’s first non-
Japanese president in 2011.  Release Conditions  Chan’s lawyer, Christine Chung, told Swain today her client
testified in Singapore, most recently in September, in a
Japanese inquiry into the Olympus scandal.  Chan appeared in court today wearing tan jail fatigues and
sneakers. He was led away after the hearing to be returned to a
U.S. jail where he’ll remain until he’s able to satisfy the
conditions set by Swain for his release.  Chung said her client was unaware that Olympus was using
complex transactions to try to hide its liabilities. She said
Olympus executives told the company’s bankers they were making
investments and trying to conceal them from competitors.  “He’s not in any way, shape or form a major player,”
Chung said.  Chung told Swain today that her client traveled to  Los
Angeles  on Dec. 17 with his family on vacation, the first time
in 16 years he’s been in the U.S. Agents didn’t arrest Chan
immediately, she told Swain. Instead, they staked out his
sister’s Los Angeles home and approached Chan there, saying they
wanted to discuss his immigration status, according to Chung.  ‘Strong Objection’  Chung said agents questioned Chan for more than five hours
over two days, arresting him on Dec. 20 after he made statements
the government claims constituted a confession.  Chung told Swain she plans to seek to have Chan’s
statements thrown out.  “We have a strong, strong objection to the use of these
tactics,” Chung said. “We plan to challenge the voluntariness
of the statements he made.”  Chung told Swain that Chan has $500,000 available to buy or
rent a place to live in  New York . His wife, who was in the
courtroom today, has made a bid on an apartment, Chung said.  Swain, who agreed to a bail package proposed by Chung, said
Chan must remain in New York and wear an electronic ankle
bracelet to ensure he doesn’t leave his home.  ‘Phony Documents’  Jonas argued against bail, claiming Chan presents a risk he
will flee. She said he’s adept at moving funds overseas and has
a “capacity for deceit.”  “He created phony documents and confirmation letters
designed to thwart auditors’ inquiries” related to Olympus, she
said.  Prosecutors claim that from 1999 to 2010, Chan conspired to
help Olympus hide hundreds of millions of dollars in
liabilities, creating phony documents to mislead the company’s
outside accountants. They claim he was paid $10 million for
falsely certifying he was placing money for Olympus in low-risk
investments, which included Japanese  government bonds .  Swain set Feb. 14 for the next court appearance in the
case.  The case is U.S. v. Chan, 13-CR-52, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  