-- Financial Job Losses Near Four-Year High as Europe Leads
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2013-01-25T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/financial-job-losses-near-four-year-high-as-europe-leads-cuts.html
Financial-services firms are on
track to cut the most jobs in January since the start of 2009 as
Europe struggles to emerge from the debt crisis and regulators
impose tougher capital rules.  The 16,040 announced and expected reductions in the past
three weeks are just short of the 16,389 cuts made in the
industry during January 2009 after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
collapsed, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Bankers and
consultants expect the cuts to accelerate in coming months even
as  financial stocks  gained 26 percent last year.  “We’re moving into a phase of radical restructuring,”
Chris Harvey, global head of financial services at Deloitte LLP,
said in an interview at the  World Economic Forum  in Davos,
Switzerland. “If you take the scenario the universal bank model
is gone, then you have to go down the restructuring route and
with that come job cuts. We’re about halfway through.”  European firms such as  Barclays Plc (BARC) , based in London’s
Canary Wharf, and  UBS (UBSN)  AG are eliminating employees at a faster
pace than most of their U.S. counterparts amid the sovereign-
debt crisis. The region is grappling with a weakened euro-area
economy, increased policing of banker compensation and
regulatory pressure on firms to shrink quickly.  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s second-largest lender, is
planning to eliminate 4,000 to 6,000 jobs over the next four
years to meet its profit goals, according to a memo seen by
 Bloomberg News  on Jan 24. London-based HSBC Holdings Plc,
Europe’s biggest bank, is working through its plan to cut 30,000
jobs announced in 2011, which they aim to complete by year-end.  ‘Too Big’  “Banks are still too big for the current environment, and
cost cutting is at the forefront of every senior management,”
said  Jason Kennedy , chief executive officer of Kennedy Group, a
London-based recruiting firm. “Management is struggling to see
their way out of this. All they are doing is cutting costs.
There is no investment in future businesses anymore.”  UBS, based in Zurich, said in October it will turn back
from capital-intensive trading businesses at the investment bank
and cut about 10,000 jobs to increase profitability. CEO  Sergio Ermotti  is restructuring the firm as tougher capital
requirements and sluggish client activity hurt returns. UBS will
focus more on its wealth-management business, the world’s
second-largest, to increase income for shareholders.  “Regulators have clearly made up their minds that banks
are too big,” UBS Chairman  Axel Weber  said at a panel
discussion in Davos this week. “The future for banks will be
quite different.”  U.S. Cutbacks  The  International Monetary Fund  said this week it expects
the euro-area economy to shrink for a second year in 2013 as
governments struggle to contain the fiscal crisis. The global
economy may expand 3.5 percent this year, less than the 3.6
percent projected in October, the Washington-based fund said.  In the U.S.,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  is eliminating 1,700 jobs from
its investment-banking division and support staff after reducing
the number of employees by about 4,500 in 2012. It’s also
deferring all bonuses for top earners, which will curb
compensation costs recognized in 2012.  American Express Co. (AXP)  said
in January it will eliminate 5,400 jobs this year, mostly in
travel services, as consumers and businesses rely more on
digital technology for bookings.  This month’s financial-services cuts compare with about
10,000 in January 2012, 2,730 in 2011 and 3,921 in January 2010,
the data show.  Commerzbank to Barclays  Commerzbank, based in Frankfurt, said in its memo that job
reductions will apply to all units worldwide with the retail
bank having “significant overcapacity,” according to its
internal memo. CEO  Martin Blessing  declined to comment on the
cuts at Davos.  Barclays, Britain’s second-largest bank by assets, said
this week it’s preparing to cut jobs at its investment bank and
has begun consulting with U.K. employees. The bank, which paid a
290 million-pound ($458 million) fine in 2012 for rigging
benchmark  interest rates , started terminating European
investment-banking jobs in December and may make cuts in Asia in
coming weeks, people with knowledge of the matter said.  The reductions may be equivalent to 5 percent to 10 percent
of the investment bank, or about 2,000 employees, said the
people, who asked not to be identified.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in  London  at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  