-- Florida Brain-Injury Center Wins Ruling Blocking Patient Move
-- B y   D a v i d   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-01-25T23:21:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/florida-brain-injury-center-wins-ruling-blocking-patient-move.html
A Florida judge ruled in favor of a
troubled brain-injury center fighting a state order to transfer
50 of its patients, saying the regulation under which the edict
was issued was invalid.  The decision represented a measure of relief for the Florida
Institute for Neurologic Rehabilitation Inc., which is
struggling to retain and recruit patients following Bloomberg
News stories detailing the deaths of five patients since 1998
and complaints that scores of others were mistreated.  The Florida Agency for Health Care Administration said in
August that the center was violating its license by treating 50
patients who didn’t have traumatic brain injuries.  The agency ordered FINR to begin crafting plans to send
those patients to facilities with appropriate licenses. FINR
never moved them because of the order, although some of the 50
left in the regular course of the treatment process, said
Lyndsey Cruley, a FINR spokeswoman.  The 50 patients represent about a quarter of the total
capacity the Wauchula, Florida-based center, which treats people
from across the country.  In today’s ruling, state Administrative Law Judge Suzanne
Van Wyk said in a 43-page decision that the regulation relied
upon by the Florida agency is “arbitrary and capricious” and
an “invalid exercise of delegated legislative authority”
because it “enlarges and contravenes the law implemented.”  FINR owner Joseph Brennick said in a statement that he was
“relieved that Judge Van Wyk has ruled in our favor today, as
we truly believe that we are the very best and often the only
option for these patients who have suffered a head injury.”  Chapter 11  Shelisha Coleman, a spokeswoman for state health care
agency, said officials were reviewing the ruling.  Some families and out-of-state human service agencies have
been pulling patients out of the facility. Earlier this month,
FINR filed for  Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection , shortly after
Regions Bank, a Birmingham, Alabama-based unit of  Regions
Financial Corp. (RF) , sued the institute for allegedly defaulting on
$31 million in real estate loans.  In a filing in that case, FINR said it began to experience
a decline in revenue as patients left following the Bloomberg
articles and subsequent reports from other media.  As of Dec. 12, FINR reported 77 of the 143 beds at its main
facility and two group homes nearby were occupied, according to
state regulators. Numbers weren’t available for the center’s
remaining beds. The Regions Bank complaint alleges the center is
in violation of a loan provision that requires it to maintain a
minimum daily occupancy of 75 percent of capacity.  Removing Patients  Connecticut officials last year said they would no longer
place residents from that state at FINR and was in the process
of removing some of the 10 patients from that state being
treated at the facility.  California disability agencies have brought eight patients
from FINR back to the state since last year and plans are
underway to do the same with the remaining seven patients at the
facility, according to Nancy Lungren, a spokeswoman for the
Department of Developmental Services.  In its bankruptcy filing, FINR indicated it had a plan
should the judge rule against it in the challenge of the order
to move the 50 patients. FINR said it would “legally de-license
a certain number of beds (on the order of 50) and continue to
treat the non-traumatic patients in unlicensed beds, fully
within the confines of the law.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
David Armstrong in Boston at 
 darmstrong16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at 
 gputka@bloomberg.net  