-- Fonterra, Government Working to Quell New Zealand Milk Scare
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2013-01-25T05:15:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/fonterra-government-working-to-quell-new-zealand-milk-scare.html
Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. (FCG) , the
world’s largest dairy exporter, and New Zealand officials are
working to stop a milk contamination scare from hurting the
nation’s NZ$14.5 billion ($12.1 billion) dairy export industry.  Fonterra has fielded “a few” enquiries from customers,
with no adverse reactions, a spokesman for the Auckland-based
company, said today by telephone after tests found low levels of
the fertilizer aid dicyandiamide, or DCD, in dairy products.
Fonterra isn’t recalling any products, he said.  The discovery, while presenting no food safety risk, may
become a trade issue, Fonterra, which accounts for about 40
percent of the global dairy trade, said yesterday. Ravensdown
Fertiliser Co-operative Ltd. and Ballance Agri-Nutrients Co-
operative have voluntarily suspended DCD sales, while the
government has established a working group to assess the future
of DCD to ensure it meets trade requirements.  “If this was to actually become an issue for international
players, then clearly two-thirds of our exports rely, to some
extent, on that sort of reputation and it’s going to raise an
eyebrow or two,” Doug Steel, a markets economist at Bank of  New
Zealand , said by phone. “But I don’t think this is that one.”  Fonterra Shareholders’ Fund fell 8 New Zealand cents, or
1.1 percent, to NZ$7.23 in Wellington trading at the 5 p.m.
close. The shares climbed 1.1 percent yesterday.  DCD aims to improve water quality on farms by reducing
nitrate levels, as well as cut greenhouse gas emissions,
according to the government. It’s been used on about 500 out of
around 12,000 dairy farms, said Federated Farmers.  Global Markets  “There was the possibility that New Zealand milk products
could have been excluded from international markets because of
this,” according to a statement on the Ministry of Primary
Industry’s  web site . “The action we have taken is to prevent
that happening.”  Fonterra, which exports to more than 100 countries, is
relying on  China  and  emerging markets  to drive growth. In 2008,
a melamine-milk contamination in China killed at least six
infants, causing the collapse of its local partner Sanlu Group.  Fonterra’s precautions reflect the company’s reliance on
international markets for growth. The company forecasts the
global diary trade will increase at least 100 billion liters by
2020, led by China and  India .  The government is working with Fonterra to decide how DCD
can be used to meet trade requirements, according to the
ministry. The absence of agreed levels means that any presence
could be unacceptable to some markets, according to the
statement.  Trade Risk  “These residues have only come to light given the increased
sophistication of testing we now possess,” William Rolleston,
food safety spokesperson for industry body,  Federated Farmers 
said yesterday in a statement. “That said, a detectable level
at this time presents a trade risk, no matter how small.”  The agricultural supply companies have worked with Fonterra
and the government to assess DCD use since December after low
levels were found in milk powder, Ravensdown said in a statement
on its website.  “Food regulators around the world are reflecting market
demands with increasingly rigorous testing and in some countries
there is a zero tolerance to detected residues outside agreed
standards,” said Carol Barnao, MPI Deputy Director General
Standards, in the MPI statement.  Fonterra in December raised its forecast payment to
farmers, saying it expects higher global dairy prices in the
first half of 2013. While milk prices fell toward year-end as
new season output from New Zealand and other southern hemisphere
producers entered the market, they are 28 percent higher than in
mid-July after the worst U.S. drought in 56 years curbed supply.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 