-- Forint Weakens to Seven-Month Low as Sales Slump: Budapest Mover
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-01-25T15:36:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/forint-extends-weekly-slump-as-retail-sales-drop-budapest-mover.html
The forint weakened to the lowest in
seven months against the euro as the worst slump in Hungarian
retail sales since June 2010 stoked expectations the central
bank will cut interest rates next week.  Hungary ’s currency depreciated as much as 1.2 percent to
298.61 per euro, its weakest intraday level since June 11, and
traded at 297.72 by 3:34 p.m., extending this week’s loss to 1.5
percent.  November retail sales fell 4.1 percent from a year earlier,
the statistics office in Budapest said today, missing the median
estimate of eight analysts polled by Bloomberg for a 3.2 percent
drop. The central bank, where President Andras Simor’s term ends
in March, will cut its main rate to 5.5 percent on Jan. 29 from
5.75 percent, a sixth consecutive month of easing, according to
26 out of 27 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The forint’s outlook given an expected rate cut next week
and investor fears over upcoming changes in central bank
leadership added up to drive the weakening of the currency,”
Akos Ruzsonyi, a Budapest-based currency trader at Commerzbank
AG, said in a phone interview. The market may be “testing the
limits of the central bank’s comfort zone,” he said.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank will hold its next policy meeting
on Jan. 29.  “The main risks surrounding the forint relate to the
central bank policy easing in the pipeline, which is set to be
even more aggressive after the change of management at the
National Bank of Hungary,” Benoit Anne  and Esther Law,
strategists at Societe Generale SA in London, said in a report.  Currency Trades  The French lender recommended investors sell the Hungarian
currency against  Romania ’s leu and  Turkey ’s lira in the note.  The forint has depreciated 2.7 percent against the euro
since Dec. 21, the day before Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy 
said the next governor should “bravely use unorthodox tools”
to help the economy recover from its second recession in four
years. Matolcsy is Simor’s most-likely successor, according to
the Index and hvg.hu news websites.  Concern looming over changes in the management of the
central bank, elections due by April 2014 and the “generally
unorthodox policy slant of the Orban government” point to
vulnerabilities in the forint, Tim Ash, the head of emerging-
market research at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in  London , said in
an e-mailed report today.  Money-market investors expect the central bank to cut the
benchmark rate to 4.75 percent or less this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The forward-rate agreement fixing
interest costs in October traded 107 basis points, or 1.07
percentage points, below the Budapest interbank offered rate to
which it settles.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net ;
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  