-- Fountainhead, Redefine Exclusivity Is Conflict: Growthpoi
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2013-01-25T16:02:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/fountainhead-redefine-exclusivity-is-conflict-growthpoint-says.html
Fountainhead Property Trust (FPT) ’s
decision to engage exclusively with  Redefine Properties Ltd. (RDF) 
about a takeover is a conflict of interest, said  Growthpoint
Properties Ltd. (GRT) ,  South Africa ’s biggest real-estate investor.  Growthpoint, which made a 10.4 billion-rand ($1.2 billion)
offer for Fountainhead in October, last week met with the
Financial Services Board and  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) ’s First National
Bank unit, which is a Fountainhead trustee, about the
transaction, said Estienne de Klerk, an  executive director  at
Growthpoint. Redefine owns the company that manages
Fountainhead’s properties.  “A conflict of interest exists between the party making
the offer and the management company,” De Klerk said by phone
from Johannesburg today.  Fountainhead, which owns or has stakes in several shopping
malls in South Africa, is the center of what would be the
biggest property transaction in the continent’s largest economy.
Growthpoint, which owns half of the V&A Waterfront restaurant
and shopping complex in  Cape Town , wants to improve its retail
portfolio. Redefine, which had made an earlier approach to
Fountainhead, raised its offer in December.  “We had no influence whatsoever” on Fountainhead’s
independent board’s decision, Redefine CEO Marc Wainer said in a
phone interview from Johannesburg. “We think our offer is a
fair offer. The decision at the end of the day is the unit
holders of Fountainhead.”  Transaction Importance  Fountainhead CEO Alex Phakathi didn’t return two calls.  “The significance and importance of this transaction has
necessitated the Registrar having to meet with a number of
different interested parties including Fountainhead, Redefine,
Growthpoint and FNB,” Jurgen Boyd, the deputy CEO responsible
for collective investments  at the Pretoria-based FSB, said in
an e-mailed response to questions.  The meetings ensure the regulator is aware of issues
“including how the conflict of interest, whether perceived or
actual, is being addressed by Fountainhead,” he said.  The exclusivity of the talks will expire if a written sale
agreement hasn’t been reached by Jan. 31, Fountainhead said in a
Dec. 13 statement. An independent committee at the company
considered the cost of delays and implementation and risks of
any threat of litigation when deciding to hold talks solely with
Redefine, it said.  “We believe that the stated litigation as disclosed by the
independent committee had an undue influence on their decision
to enter into an exclusive” process with Redefine, De Klerk
said. “Growthpoint has never threatened any litigation
related” to the transaction.  Growthpoint erased an earlier decline, advancing 2.2
percent, the most since Dec. 3, to 25.90 rand at close in
Johannesburg, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Redefine
rose 0.8 percent to 9.75 rand. Fountainhead gained 0.7 percent
to 8.64 rand, the highest since Sept. 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  