-- France’s Moscovici Says Strong Euro Creates ‘Some Problems’
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2013-01-25T16:12:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/france-s-moscovici-says-strong-euro-creates-some-problems-.html
French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  said the strength of the euro is hampering recover in
the 17-nation economy, while also reflecting confidence that the
region’s debt crisis is fading.  “The level of the euro is high and it creates some
problems,” Moscovici said on a panel discussion hosted by
Bloomberg Television in Davos,  Switzerland . Those gains have
come because “people feel confident in the euro today.”  The euro rose to an 11-month high against the dollar today,
heading for a seventh week of gains, after the  European Central
Bank  said lenders in the region handed back more three-year
loans than expected. The banks’ ability to return those funds
reflects broader confidence that the euro area has gotten beyond
the worst part of its sovereign debt crisis.  On the same panel, Deutsche Bank AG Co-Chief Executive
Officer Anshu Jain said the euro’s gains also reflect the U.S.
Federal Reserve’s quantitative easing policy and a euro-area
recession suggests the region’s currency should weaken.  “The euro has appreciated, partly because as the minister
said, the euro-zone break-up fears receded,” Jain said. “But
recently it is more because, someone talked about the printing
press in the U.S., it largely has to do with the fact that
quantitative easing in the U.S. is creating a weakness for the
dollar. Longer-term it will come down to differential growth
rates as it always does.”  IMF Forecasts  The  International Monetary Fund  said this week it projects
a second year of contraction in the euro region. It will shrink
0.2 percent in 2013, instead of growing 0.2 percent as forecast
in October, while the U.S. will expand 2.1 percent, up from a 2
percent forecast, the Washington-based fund said.  The head of  China ’s sovereign wealth fund said on the panel
that he’s a “little bit worried” about the dollar even though
he’s confident in the outlook for the  U.S. economy .  “The printing machine will have to slow down considerably
in order for people to have confidence in the dollar,” said  Jin Liqun , chairman of China Investment Corp. At the same time, “I
have confidence in the resilience of the U.S. economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  