-- French Strikes Pound Rebels as Malians Restart Lives
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2013-01-25T13:55:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/french-strikes-pound-rebels-as-malians-restart-lives.html
Bintou Keita hasn’t decided whether
she will return to her home in Diabaly a week after French
airstrikes drove Islamist fighters from the town.  “All night, we could hear the bombing and the gunfire, but
the Islamists had closed the road so we couldn’t leave,” the
60-year-old mother of four said as she sat on a thin mattress at
her brother-in-law’s house in the nearby town of Niono. “In
Mali, we’ve never before experienced things like that. The walls
of my house were trembling.”  French and Malian forces pushed back Islamist rebels from
Diabaly, 425 kilometers (264 miles) north of the capital,
Bamako, and three other towns this week. They’re fighting to rid
an area the size of  France  of a loose alliance of rebel groups
seeking to impose a strict version of Islamic law.  France intervened on Jan. 11 after the Islamist fighters
overran the town of Konna, sparking concern they might advance
toward Bamako. The French Defense Ministry said today that 2,500
soldiers have arrived in the landlocked West African country,
which gained independence from France in 1960. African nations
are deploying a force that may total as many as 3,300, soldiers.  The Malian army was driven out of Diabaly on Jan. 14 by men
“wearing pants rolled up below the knee” and speaking French
and at least two local languages, Keita said.  Rebel Executions  She and other women in the town were told to cover their
hair with a veil. Days into the siege, the Islamists hid in
residents’ houses and parked pick-up trucks mounted with machine
guns in her neighbors’ mud-walled compounds. “Thank god they
didn’t come to our house,” she said.  Keita said she watched the rebels execute a neighbor after
he refused to greet them and saw two bodies of Malian soldiers
“dumped along the canal.”  As soon as she could, Keita and her family fled to Niono,
joining at least 11,000 people who have been forced from their
homes by the recent fighting, according to the United Nations
Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs. About
230,000 have been displaced since the crisis began, the agency
said on Jan. 22.  The insurgents took control of northern  Mali , including the
historic town of Timbuktu, after a coup in March last year by
government soldiers complaining that they hadn’t received
weapons and vehicles to fight the rebels.  Army Disarray  Mali’s army is in disarray and is ill-equipped to combat
the militants, who were boosted by heavy weapons and fighters
who arrived in the aftermath of the 2011 civil war in
neighboring  Libya , said a Malian army official who declined to
be identified because he didn’t want to publicly criticize the
military.  The chain of command was disrupted by the coup, the
official said. Troops, who now number about 8,000 compared with
10,000 before the coup, use decade-old weapons and equipment, he
said, and many new recruits receive less than three months
training.  Army spokesman Colonel Diarran Kone declined to comment on
the allegations. “I don’t know who is saying that, there is no
point in responding,” he said today by phone from Bamako.  Amid charges by the Paris-based International Federation
for  Human Rights  that some Malian soldiers have carried out
summary executions, the government urged the military in a
statement yesterday to show “strict respect of human rights.”  Kone said the army has “clear rules of engagement” and
that groups alleging rights abuses “need to provide evidence.”  French and Malian troops yesterday took control of the town
of Hombori, about 250 kilometers from the rebel-held town of
Gao, Kone said.  Gold Mining  Mali vies with Tanzania as  Africa ’s third-largest producer
of gold, with  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (AU)  and  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS) 
among the companies operating in the country. It ranks 175th out
of 187 nations on the UN Human Development Index, which measures
indicators including literacy, income and gender equality.  Its $10.6 billion economy contracted 4.5 percent last year
as the occupation of the north disrupted agricultural output and
led to a virtual collapse of tourism as Islamists expanded their
control, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  The economy is forecast to expand 3 percent in 2013, partly
because gold mining hasn’t been affected by the conflict, the
IMF said on Nov. 14.  In Niono, Keita’s brother-in-law, Cheick Omar Diallo, said
he heard that young men attacked a shop in a nearby village
because the owner was suspected of sympathizing with the
Islamists.  ‘Witch Hunt’  “These kinds of rumors are hard to confirm,” he said.
“There is no witch hunt here. This is a small town. We all know
each other. Nobody likes the rebels.”  The land around Diabaly, a rice producing area, is part of
the largest irrigation scheme in West Africa, deriving water
from the nearby French-built Markala dam, according to  Wetlands
International , a Wageningen, the Netherlands-based environmental
research group.  French and Malian troops are also stationed there, with
their armored vehicles overlooking the river and parked under
baobab trees.  In the town itself, the open-air market has re-opened,
Moussa Kane, a resident, said today by phone.  “They are searching a lot of houses,” he said. “There is
a large number of Malian and French forces, and some of them
seem to be moving north.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pauline Bax in Niono,  Mali at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  