-- Gajah Tunggal Offers Dollar Debt as Sales Drop to Three-Week Low
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-01-25T06:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/gajah-tunggal-offers-dollar-debt-as-sales-drop-to-three-week-low.html
PT Gajah Tunggal (GJTL)  is marketing U.S.
dollar-denominated notes as sales in  Asia  outside of  Japan  slid
to a three-week low. Debt risk in the region fell.  The Indonesian tire maker is offering five-year securities
at a yield of about 8.25 percent, a person familiar with the
matter said, asking not to be identified because the terms
aren’t set. Companies in Asia have sold $3.1 billion of bonds in
the U.S. currency this week, down from a seventeen-week high of
$6 billion for the five days ended Jan. 11, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Issuance in Asia excluding Japan accounts for 47 percent of
dollar debt sold in all  emerging markets  this year, compared
with 36 percent for the same period of 2012, the data show.
Flows into emerging-market bond funds reached a 50-week high in
the week to Jan. 18, according to data provider EPFR Global.  “We’ve seen a strong start to the year from an issuance
standpoint which is creating a temporary indigestion, in high-
yield particularly,” said Kaushik Rudra, the Singapore-based
global head of credit research at Standard Chartered Plc. “But
this is a small consolidation as we still expect volumes this
quarter to be particularly strong.”  DBA Telecommunication (Asia) Holdings Ltd., which operates
smart payment terminals in  China , is marketing five-year bonds
at a yield of about 12 percent, a person familiar with the
matter said earlier this week.  Gajah Tunggal, based in Jakarta, last sold dollar debt in
June 2009, when it issued about $435 million of 8 percent notes,
Bloomberg data show.  Bond Risk  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan fell one basis point to 109 basis points
as of 8:21 a.m. in  Singapore , Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
prices show. The benchmark has ranged from 102.8 to 110.1 this
year, according to data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index decreased five basis points
to 134.5 basis points as of 9:19 a.m. in  Tokyo , according to
Deutsche Bank AG prices. The measure is on course for its lowest
close since August 2011, according to CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
private market.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index increased one basis point
to 116 as of 10:36 a.m. in Sydney, according to Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. prices. The gauge has fallen 11 basis
points this year after a 53 basis-point drop in 2012, CMA prices
show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  