-- Gator Doesn’t Eat Dancers in Florida-Set Parsons Premiere
-- B y   J a m e s   T a r m y
-- 2013-01-26T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/gator-doesn-t-eat-dancers-in-florida-set-parsons-premiere.html
David Parsons, a principal dancer
with  Paul Taylor ’s company from 1978 to 1987, stays in shape
these days with Pilates.  Raised in  Kansas City ,  Missouri , he came to  New York  at 17.
Now 53, he still looks fit enough to heft an onstage partner.  Parsons Dance , the company he founded in 1987 and leads as
artistic director, maintains a busy U.S. and overseas schedule.
This weekend it’s completing a fortnight’s run at  Manhattan ’s
 Joyce Theater  that includes a brace of premieres.  For lunch at Bloomberg’s New York headquarters, Parsons
brought his good looks, restless energy and not much appetite.  ‘Dawn to Dusk’  Tarmy: Two premieres is impressive.  Parsons: For “Dawn to Dusk” we spent time in south
 Florida , coming up with movement to bring out the essence of our
national parks. In this case, swamps, water, alligators. You see
the images projected on a screen behind our dancers.  The other premiere is called “Black Flowers” by Katarzyna
Skarpetowska, who used to be a member of my company.  Tarmy: Then there’s “Caught,” which is called your
masterpiece.  Parsons: It’s a piece that can only be seen live. When the
man who invented the strobe light saw it, he gave me a big hug,
he was so happy.  Tarmy: Now that all dance is recorded and put on the
Internet, does it change the way you choreograph?  Parsons: Absolutely. You take a lot more care when you do
any production, because it’s there forever. It really is a money
issue.  Happy Italians  Tarmy: What’s your company’s budget?  Parsons: $1.5 million is our yearly budget. I employ 17
people -- dancers, technicians, administrators. It’s not easy.  Corporations were a big part when I first started, and now
that’s totally gone. I’ve been really lucky, though, because
 Italy  loves my work. Luca Missoni is on my board, and I’ve
worked with a lot of fashion people over there. Having that as
an artist opens your world up.  I don’t think I could have done it, if I wasn’t in Italy,
in  South America . A lot of companies have the real problem that
they can’t get out of New York, especially now.  Tarmy: Touring is hard, I imagine.  Parsons: The college circuit is so diminished. The theaters
are well-constructed and technically proficient, but the
cutbacks have had a huge impact on dance and performance.  ‘No Justice’  Tarmy: What are some other dance companies you like?  Parsons: Right now I love seeing Cedar Lake. There’s no
justice to it, because it’s funded by the Wal-Mart heiress.  Paul Taylor told me when I left his company, “Remember.
There is no justice.” And I thought, “Whatever, man. I’m out
of here.” But what fine dancers!  Tarmy: Are there still distinct styles that vary from dance
school to dance school?  Parsons: It’s all mixed now. The more versatile you are as
a dancer, the better. As a choreographer, you need a dancer to
be able to do anything.  Ballet is going to grow older, faster. We need new.
Everyone needs new. Nobody wants to see the old anymore.  (Parsons Dance is at the Joyce Theater, 175  Eighth Avenue 
and 19th Street, with two shows on Saturday and Sunday.
Information: +1 212-242-0800 or
 http://www.joyce.org/performancestickets/calendar_joyce.php .)  (James Tarmy writes for Muse, the arts and culture section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own. This
interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
James Tarmy in New York:  Jtarmy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 