-- German Banks See More Growth Than Government Estimates
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-01-25T12:15:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/german-banks-see-more-growth-than-government-estimates.html
The German government’s forecast for
economic growth this year is too pessimistic because spending by
companies will probably offset lower demand from austerity-hit
 Europe  and cooling global trade, the country’s biggest lenders
said.  German domestic demand will buoy growth as  unemployment 
levels have fallen and companies make investments they delayed
last year, Uwe Froehlich, president of the BVR association of
cooperative banks, said today at a conference in Frankfurt.  “We think  Germany ’s economy will develop more positively
in 2013,” Froehlich said. With interest rates at historic lows,
“the financing hurdle for most consumers and companies is
pretty low.”  Froehlich is the second German banking voice in two days to
challenge the economic outlook of  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s
government. Georg Fahrenschon, president of the DSGV association
of savings banks, said yesterday that Germany’s small- and
medium-sized companies, the so-called Mittelstand, will drive
Europe’s economy this year with growth stronger than some
economists predict.  Last year “was better than expected and 2013 will be
better than feared,” said Fahrenschon, a former Bavarian
finance minister. “We don’t see a bad fourth quarter causing
sustained uncertainty.” He didn’t provide an estimate.  The euro area, Germany’s largest export market, fell into
recession last year as countries from  Greece  to Spain cut
spending to rein in deficits and weaker growth in the U.S. and
 China  curbed global trade. Even so, German business confidence
rose more than economists forecast in January to the highest
level since June, the  Ifo institute  in Munich said today. That’s
the third straight month that the gauge has risen.  Government Forecasts  Merkel’s government forecast on Jan. 16 that Germany’s
economic growth will slow to 0.4 percent this year from 0.7
percent in 2012. The European Central Bank predicts the 17-
nation euro economy will contract 0.3 percent, with countries
such as Spain and  Italy  in recessions.  The German government’s outlook is “too low,” Froehlich
said. The BVR’s economists expect German growth “in the
direction of 1 percent,” he said.  Germany’s savings and cooperative banks had a combined
balance sheet of 2.16 trillion euros at the end of 2011,
matching that of  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Europe’s biggest lender by
assets.  “I’m also more optimistic than the government,” Christian Ricken, chief operating officer of Deutsche Bank’s private and
business clients unit, said today at the Frankfurt conference.
Deutsche Bank has “big plans” in its lending business this
year, Ricken said without being more specific.  Europe’s sovereign debt crisis may yet scupper growth in
Germany and states must continue their budget consolidation,
according to both Froehlich and Fahrenschon.  “No one knows how the debt crisis will develop,” said
Froehlich. “That has a decisive effect on trust in the
region.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in  Frankfurt  at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  