-- German Business Confidence May Gain for a Third Month
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-01-25T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/german-business-confidence-may-gain-for-a-third-month-in-january.html
German business confidence probably
increased for a third month in January, adding to signs that
 Europe ’s largest economy is recovering from a slump at the end
of last year.  The Ifo institute’s  business climate index , based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, will rise to 103 from 102.4 in
December, according to the median forecast of 41 economists in a
 Bloomberg News survey . That would be the highest since July.
Sentiment dropped to a 2 1/2 year low in October. Ifo releases
the report at 10 a.m. in Munich today.  The Bundesbank said this week there are indications that
the economy is already rebounding from a contraction in the
final quarter of 2012, even as the sovereign debt crisis curbs
demand in  Germany ’s euro-area trading partners. Investor
confidence jumped to the highest since May 2010 this month and a
gauge of activity in  service industries  rose to a 19-month high.  “The risks for the German economy are on the upside for
the first time in a long time,” said Frederik Ducrozet, senior
euro-area economist at  Credit Agricole  in Paris. “Of course,
there is some catching up from a low level after a very weak
fourth quarter, but we also see fundamental improvements that
give hope for this year.”  Ifo’s measure of executives’ expectations probably rose to
98.5, the highest since May, from 97.9 in December, while a
gauge of the current situation may have increased to 107.3 from
107.1, the survey shows.  Economic Slowdown  German growth slowed to 0.7 percent in 2012 from 3 percent
in 2011, the Federal Statistics Office said last week. It
estimates gross domestic product may have dropped as much as 0.5
percent in the fourth quarter from the third.  While the government forecasts expansion of just 0.4
percent in 2013, the country’s DSGV savings banks association
yesterday struck a more optimistic note. Germany’s small and
medium-sized companies, which generate about half its GDP, will
increase investment this year and growth should be stronger than
some predict, DSGV President Georg Fahrenschon said.  SAP AG (SAP) , the biggest maker of business-management software,
this week forecast a gain of at least 12 percent in full-year
earnings, pushing up its share price.  Stocks Rally  The benchmark  DAX stock index  has rallied about 17 percent
since European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  pledged on
July 26 to do whatever is needed to preserve the euro. Draghi
said this week that the “darkest clouds” of the crisis have
lifted.  Still, with the 17-nation euro area in its second recession
in four years, the debt crisis is “far from over,” German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  said in her New Year’s speech.  Belgian business confidence, which some economists consider
a bellwether for the euro area, unexpectedly fell in January for
the first time in three months, the  National Bank of Belgium 
said yesterday.  The euro economy probably stagnated in the first quarter
after a 0.4 percent contraction in the previous three months,
according to the median of 26 economists’ forecasts in another
Bloomberg survey. It shrank 0.1 percent in the third quarter of
2012 and 0.2 percent in the second.  Germany exports about 40 percent of its products to the
euro region.  Robert Bosch GmbH , the world’s biggest car-parts maker,
said on Jan. 23 it will hold back on investments this year as
the recession in Europe caused profitability in 2012 to miss
targets.  “The fourth quarter was pretty bad, both in Germany and the
euro area,” said Jens Kramer, an economist at NordLB in Hanover.
“The tables will turn now. There is no danger of a recession in
Germany. I expect solid growth from the beginning of this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  