-- MGIC Falls as Burch Says Insurer’s Valuation Out of Whack
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   B u n n
-- 2013-01-25T19:53:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/mgic-falls-as-burch-says-insurer-s-valuation-out-of-whack.html
MGIC Investment Corp. (MTG) , the mortgage
insurer that breached regulators’ capital limits, declined after
Macquarie Group Ltd. told investors to sell the stock on the
prospect that claims costs and legal expenses will drain assets.  MGIC dropped 4.9 percent to $2.90 in New York trading at
2:32 p.m. The Milwaukee-based insurer has slumped about 30
percent in the past 12 months.  The insurer’s settlement last year with  Freddie Mac  over a
coverage dispute, costing $267.5 million, will probably fuel a
decline in book value to about $1 a share at the end of 2013
from more than $3 on Sept. 30, 2012, Macquarie’s Jasper Burch
said in note today. MGIC and competitor  Radian Group Inc. (RDN)  both
traded yesterday at more than 90 percent of their third-quarter
book value, a measure of assets minus liabilities.  The  valuation  of MGIC is “out of whack,” given costs
since Sept. 30, wrote Burch, who cut the stock to underperform
from neutral. “We see continued earnings and book value
pressure.”  He  estimates  the company will post an operating loss of
$1.69 a share when it reports fourth-quarter results. Katie Monfre, a spokeswoman for MGIC, had no immediate comment.  Radian advanced 3.3 percent to $6.60. The Philadelphia-
based company has more than doubled in the past 12 months.  MGIC said in August it had breached the 25-to-1
ratio of risk relative to capital that some state regulators
require to permit the company to sell new coverage. The company
has received waivers to allow it to keep selling policies in
some states.  “While regulators have been accommodative to rising risk
to capital levels to date, there is still a, perhaps outside,
chance that they could hit the kill switch and cease new
business writing,” Burch said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Bunn in  New York  at 
 ebunn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  