-- GM Considers Brazil Options With Akerson’s Global Reorganization
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-01-26T05:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/gm-considers-brazil-options-with-akerson-s-global-reorganization.html
As  General Motors Co. (GM)  Chief
Executive Officer Dan Akerson works on a global corporate
reorganization, the decisions he faces are playing out in one of
the company’s most important  emerging markets :  Brazil .  The automaker is evaluating how it will structure
management in the country after the former president of GM
Brazil, Grace Lieblein, switched to head of global purchasing in
December. GM is holding off on replacing her as it determines
what kind of role the person will have, said Jaime Ardila,
president of GM South America.  Akerson, through the revamping, is pushing to increase
accountability and flexibility as the U.S. automaker slugs it
out globally with  Toyota Motor Corp. (7267)  and  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)  Among
the choices he faces is whether one person in a country such as
Brazil will oversee all operations or whether the top executive
might be the country’s  Chevrolet  chief.  GM is “right in the middle of the discussion” about how
the reorganization will work, Ardila said in an interview last
week in  Detroit . “We’re going through some important
reorganization generally, you know, with all of this emphasis on
global brands.”  For now, Ardila is overseeing Brazilian operations in
addition to his duties running GM  South America . This week GM
combined the chief financial officer roles for Brazil and South
America, naming Carlos Zarlenga to the position.  GM introduced seven new vehicles in Brazil last year as
part of an effort to update its offerings and return the region
to profitability. Brazil accounted for 60 percent of GM’s
vehicle sales in South America during the first three quarters
of last year.  South America  The company has five divisions, including its finance arm.
 North America  generated the most profit last year while the
international operations group, which includes  China , saw the
fastest sales growth.  Europe  has lost $17.3 billion since 1999
through 2012’s third quarter.  Some level of geographic organization is inevitable, even
as management focuses more on brands, Ardila said.  “South America as a cluster isn’t going to disappear,” he
said. “You’ll always have to have the cluster because of
demographics, market preferences, culture, economic conditions,
-- it’s a natural cluster.”  While Ardila didn’t discuss the company’s other regions, he
said Detroit-based GM has a history of organizing its operations
by brands.  “This company was divided by brands for many years,” he
said.  GM moved away from North American operations being divided
around Chevrolet-Pontiac-GMC and Cadillac-Buick-Oldsmobile
brands in 1992 as part of a reorganization by then-Chairman
Robert Stempel billed as a “streamlining.”  Global Roles  Akerson, who replaced  Ed Whitacre  as CEO before the
automaker’s November 2010 initial public offering, is working to
refocus management around brands and global functions. He
created a position of the head of the Cadillac brand globally in
October and chose Bob Ferguson, who had been GM’s top lobbyist.  Other jobs with worldwide responsibilities include
Lieblein’s purchasing role; Mary Barra as head of global product
development; and Tim Lee as head of global manufacturing along
with leading international operations.  While Akerson is planning a global structure for Chevrolet
similar to the Cadillac position, the CEO said in October that
he didn’t feel the same “immediacy” to fill it as he did for
the luxury brand.  Akerson’s Priority  A priority for Akerson over the past year has been his push
for updates to the company’s managerial accounting and
information technology systems to allow for better financial
transparency and communications.  The new systems should help Akerson drive accountability
and change at the automaker. He has expressed frustration about
the company’s splintered fiefdoms and culture of slow-moving
consensus.  In particular, the new accounting system allows for GM
executives to get a better idea of profitability on a country-
by-country basis.  “We’re going to have better information to help everybody
understand exactly where we’re making profits and how to make
better decisions about vehicles,” Barra said last week in an
interview. She said it’s “a little too soon” to give concrete
examples.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  