-- Goldman Sells Its First Benchmark Bonds in Euros for 1 1/2 Years
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 2013-01-25T17:16:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/goldman-sachs-selling-first-benchmark-euro-bonds-for-18-months.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  raised 1
billion euros ($1.3 billion) from its first benchmark sale in
the currency for 1 1/2 years, just a week after issuing $6
billion of debt in its biggest deal ever.  The U.S. bank sold 3.25 percent senior, unsecured 10-year
notes that were priced to yield 155 basis points more than the
swap rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The deal
lifts total corporate bond sales in Europe this week to about 19
billion euros, matching the previous week’s volume.  Goldman Sachs is borrowing money as the European Central
Bank said today that banks will hand back more of its three-year
emergency loans than forecast by economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. That boosted investor confidence and helped send the
cost of insuring bank debt down from near a four-week high.  “There’s still strong demand for financial debt in
Europe,” said Georg Grodzki, the head of credit research at
Legal & General Investment Management in London, which manages
more than $600 billion of bonds. “Yields may be heading up soon
and fast if Goldman Sachs’s own economic optimism proves
correct” and interest rates rise, he said.  Sophie Bullock, a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs in London,
declined to comment.  The New York-based firm is  rated  A3 by Moody’s Investors
Service, four levels above junk status, and an equivalent A- by
Standard & Poor’s.  Bank Bonds  Lenders including  Intesa SanPaolo SpA (ISP)  and UniCredit Bank
Austria AG also took advantage of low borrowing costs and raised
a total of 12.8 billion euros this week, Bloomberg data show.
Spanish technology company  Abengoa SA (ABG)  sold 250 million euros of
five-year junk bonds today that pay an 8.875 percent coupon,
which was at the low end of the marketing range, a person with
knowledge of the transaction said.  About 278 financial institutions will return 137.2 billion
euros to the Frankfurt-based ECB on Jan. 30, compared with the
median forecast of 84 billion euros in a Bloomberg economists’
survey. The ECB’s first three-year loan totaled 489 billion
euros and banks can continue to make early repayments in coming
weeks.  Futures traders wagered that interbank borrowing costs will
rise after the ECB’s announcement. The yield on the futures
contract due December 2013 for the euro interbank offered rate,
or Euribor, climbed 12 basis points to 0.54 percent as of 4:52
p.m. in London. The price, which moves inversely to the yield,
dropped to the lowest since July.  Borrowing Costs  Three-month Euribor, which is set daily from submissions by
a panel of banks and is designed to reflect their borrowing
costs, was set at 0.214 percent today, down from 0.663 percent
in June and a record-high 5.393 percent in October 2008.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of credit-default swaps
dropped as much as three basis points to 134 before paring its
decline to one basis point. The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of
125 companies with investment-grade ratings fell one basis point
to 105, snapping three days of increases.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  