-- Group 1 Enters Fast-Growing Brazil Market With Purchase
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-01-25T21:42:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/group-1-enters-fast-growing-brazil-market-with-purchase.html
Group 1 Automotive Inc. (GPI) , the U.S.
auto-dealership group, moved to expand into the fast-growing
Brazilian market by agreeing to acquire 18 stores there.  Group 1 plans to purchase Sao Paulo-based UAB Motors
Participacoes SA for about $47.4 million cash, 1.45 million
shares of Group 1 common stock and the assumption of about $62
million of debt, the company said yesterday in a statement.
Group 1 expects to close the deal by the end of February.  The acquisition builds on Group 1’s more than 120 existing
dealerships in the U.S. and U.K. The vehicle population in
 Brazil  may expand to about 55 million by 2020 from 35 million
today, according to Frost & Sullivan, a research and consulting
firm. The U.S. new-vehicle market has expanded by at least 10
percent for three consecutive years and is approaching pre-
recessionary levels of demand.  “There comes a time five years from now or eight years
from now when there will be less growth opportunities in both
the U.S. and the U.K., and we want to provide our shareholders
with a longer-term growth avenue,”  Earl Hesterberg , Group 1’s
chief executive officer, said today in a telephone interview.
“We think this is almost perfect.”  Automakers last year delivered 3.8 million vehicles in
Brazil, the world’s fourth-largest auto market, and the
country’s sales have grown at an average annual rate of more
than 9 percent the last five years, according to Brazil’s auto
manufacturer association Anfavea. The group is forecasting
growth of at least 4 percent this year.  Earnings Impact  The acquisition of UAB will add 3 cents to 5 cents per
share to diluted earnings in 2013, excluding any associated deal
costs, Houston-based Group 1 said.  Group 1 and other U.S.-based dealership groups are
benefiting from light-vehicle sales in their home market that
climbed by 13 percent last year, the biggest increase since
1984. Deliveries in the U.S. may climb to 15.1 million this year
from 14.5 million in 2012, the average of 18 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  “We see good market growth for several years” in the
U.S., Hesterberg said. “We’ve got plenty of opportunity to
expand externally in terms of more acquisitions here, so that’s
not a near-term issue. But it could be long-term, and that was a
factor in our looking for a growth market.”  Group 1,  Penske Automotive Group Inc. (PAG)  and  Lithia Motors
Inc. (LAD)  earlier this week reached record share prices after a
KeyBanc Capital Markets report about the auto retailers cited a
“confident” outlook on U.S. vehicle sales and acquisitions.  “We are now bullish on the acquisitions outlook, driven by
a more stable political and economic environment and supported
by recent activity in the industry,” Brett Hoselton, a KeyBanc
analyst in  Cleveland , wrote in a Jan. 22 report.  Group 1 fell 0.5 percent to $67.40 at the close in New
York. The shares rose 20 percent last year, outperforming the 13
percent gain by the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  