-- GTL Infrastructure Said to Be in Talks for Debt Transfer
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2013-01-25T11:15:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/gtl-infrastructure-said-to-be-in-talks-for-debt-transfer.html
GTL Infrastructure Ltd. (GTLI) , an Indian
mobile-phone tower operator, is in discussions with lenders
about the potential transfer of some of its debt to affiliate
 GTL Ltd. (GTS) , said four people with knowledge of the matter.  Talks with the lenders are in early stages, and a deal is
not likely before the end of March, one person said, asking not
to be identified as the information is private. As part of any
restructuring, GTL Infrastructure may also transfer assets to
GTL, a network services company, two people said.  The transfer could be followed by a sale of GTL
Infrastructure’s towers to pay down some of the remaining debt,
three of the people said. Any arrangement between the two
companies, controlled by closely-held  Global Group , needs the
approval of banks that restructured their debt last year, the
people said.  “The news is highly speculative and incorrect,”
Ramakrishna Bellam, a Mumbai-based spokesman for Global Group,
said in an e-mailed response to questions.  GTL Infrastructure amassed 108 billion rupees ($2 billion)
in debt by the end of March, partly a result of its 80.3 billion
rupee acquisition of mobile phone transmission towers in 2010,
according to company filings. GTL’s debt stood at 43.3 billion
rupees at the end of March, its filings show.  With  India ’s mobile telecom companies slowing expansion of
their networks, Global Group last year restructured 162 billion
rupees of debt owed by GTL Infrastructure, GTL, and another unit
called Chennai Networks Infrastructure Ltd. As part of that
deal, banks converted some of their loans into GTL
Infrastructure equity.  Merger Option  Lenders including Indian Overseas Bank and  Bank of Baroda 
owned more than  46 percent  of GTL Infrastructure at the end of
November, stock exchange filings show.  GTL Infrastructure, which acquired 17,500 mobile-phone
transmission towers from Aircel Ltd. in 2010, has a portfolio of
over 30,000 towers, according to its website. With its shares
down about  72 percent  in the past year, the company has a market
value of 7.8 billion rupees.  GTL, down about 48 percent in the past year, has a market
value of 3.8 billion rupees. The company will add to its 7.7
percent stake in GTL Infrastructure after the debt and the asset
transfer takes place, one person said.  GTL and GTL Infrastructure could also consider a merger if
they don’t receive approval from lenders for a transfer of the
debt, the person said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  