-- A Calmer Li Na Returns to Australian Open Final Against Azarenka
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-01-25T15:08:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/li-na-returns-becalmed-to-australian-open-final-against-azarenka.html
Two years after losing her first
Grand Slam tennis final at the Australian Open,  Li Na  is back in
the championship match in  Melbourne  with a different approach.  “Last time is more exciting, nervous, because first time
to be in final,” Li, the No. 6 seed from  China , said in a news
conference yesterday. “But I think this time more calmed down,
more cool.”  Li went on to become the first Asian-born player to win a
major singles title at the 2011  French Open , following her loss
to  Kim Clijsters  at Rod Laver Arena. Today she faces defending
champion  Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus.  The winner will join Serena and  Venus Williams ,  Maria Sharapova  and  Svetlana Kuznetsova  as the only active female
players with at least two major singles titles. Should Li
triumph one month before she turns 31, she would be the oldest
woman to win the Australian Open since the professional era
began in 1968.  Azarenka is the 4-6 favorite to take the trophy, meaning
a successful $60 bet would return $40 plus the original stake,
according to U.K. bookmaker William Hill, which rates Li a 6-5
chance.  Azarenka holds a 5-4 lead in career meetings against Li,
winning the past four.  “It’s a new start so I’m looking forward to the final,”
Li said.  Timeout Troubles  While Li joked throughout her news conference, Azarenka
adopted a more serious tone in speaking about confusion over a
medical timeout during her semifinal win two days ago over
Sloane Stephens. The timing of the treatment prompted
accusations of gamesmanship from former players, including Brad Gilbert.  After blowing five match points on her serve in the ninth
game of the second set, Azarenka got a 10-minute reprieve that
was mostly spent off the court. When she returned, she broke
back to close out a 6-1, 6-4 win and then gave contradictory
answers about her reasons for the timeout. She initially
indicated that she was struggling to breathe because of nerves,
then said that she had been treated for a rib injury that
affected her breathing.  “The timing was unfortunate,” Azarenka told reporters
yesterday. “When I felt the pain I thought I could continue,
but it just got to the point where I couldn’t. The nerves I was
talking about, which is what was misunderstood, I’d never felt
that way in my life and I didn’t understand what was going on.”  Azarenka, 23, said she hoped there wouldn’t be any backlash
from the crowd at Rod Laver Arena, where her semifinal timeout
had been met with jeers and whistles.  No Control  “I’m there to play tennis, like I always do,” she added.
“I can’t control what people are going to do. What I can
control is try to be myself.”  Li’s on-court interviews at Melbourne Park have produced
laughter, with mirthful complaints about her husband’s snoring
and her coach’s grueling training schedule. Now she enters the
final having had a smoother preparation than her opponent.  While Azarenka played only two tune-up matches before the
tournament because of an infected toenail, Li has a 14-1 record
in 2013. She credited her form to a tough off-season training
schedule with coach  Carlos Rodriguez , who previously mentored
seven-time Grand Slam champion Justine Henin.  Having Rodriguez in her coaching box will also boost her
chances of overcoming nerves and her opponent, Li said.  “Last time for my team also is first time to be the final,
so nobody tell me what I should do on the court,” Li said.
“This time is different story. Carlos, before he was coaching
for Justine, so he has a lot of experience for the final. I
think should be OK this time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes at Melbourne Park at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  