-- Icahn Says Transocean’s Board Should Declare $4 Dividend
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2013-01-25T23:37:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/icahn-says-transocean-s-board-should-declare-4-dividend.html
Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn 
called on  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  to issue a $4-a-share dividend and
said he will propose the dividend at the next meeting if the
board doesn’t act.  Icahn, who holds a 5.61 percent stake in the company, has
held talks with Transocean’s management and intends to have
further discussions including about the possible addition of new
board members, according to a filing today with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Transocean owned the Deepwater Horizon rig that exploded in
April 2010 in the Gulf of Mexico, killing 11 workers and leading
to the largest offshore oil spill in U.S. history. The company
said in February 2012 its board wouldn’t propose a dividend at
its 2012 annual shareholder meeting. Transocean previously had a
quarterly  dividend  of 79 cents a share.  “I don’t have any objection to someone trying to get them
to pay a dividend, but $4 a share sounds a bit too high to me,”
said Philip Weiss, an analyst for Argus Research. “I’d rather
see them take a portion of that money and use it to build more
rigs and expand the business.” Weiss rates Transocean a buy and
owns the shares.  The company said earlier this month that Icahn and his
affiliates had bought a stake in Transocean and sought
regulators’ permission to own more than 3 percent. That
announcement came after Transocean agreed to pay about $1.4
billion related to the 2010 Gulf spill.  Cash Supplies  Transocean had about $6 billion of cash and near-cash items
at the end of September, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  “We will review Mr. Icahn’s filing carefully and respond
in due course,” Brian Maddox, a spokesman for Transocean at  FTI
Consulting (FCN) , said in an e-mail.  Yesterday,  CVR Energy Inc. (CVI)  announced a new quarterly
dividend policy and a special dividend of $5.50 a share. Icahn
took over the oil refiner and fertilizer maker last year and
owns about 82 percent of that company’s shares.  Transocean  climbed  2.9 percent to $58.40 at 5:52 p.m. in
New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net  