-- Icahn Says No Respect for Bill Ackman After Herbalife Bet
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2013-01-25T22:39:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/icahn-says-no-respect-for-bill-ackman-after-herbalife-bet.html
Carl Icahn , reviving a decade-old
feud with hedge-fund manager  William Ackman , said the founder of
Pershing Square Capital Management LP is taking “inordinate”
risks in a wager against  Herbalife (HLF)  Ltd. disclosed last year.  Icahn, who spent more than seven years wrangling with
Ackman in court over $4.5 million, said in an interview
yesterday that Ackman’s assertion that he was shining a
spotlight on Herbalife, the marketer of weight-loss and
nutritional supplements, was “disingenuous.” In a statement
today, Icahn said he would never invest with Pershing Square,
citing Ackman’s short sale of more than 20 million Herbalife
shares.  “Selling short 20 percent of the shares of a company such
as HLF with limited partners’ money that can be withdrawn, in my
opinion, leaves much to be questioned,” Icahn said. Noting that
Ackman yesterday called him a “great investor,” Icahn said,
“I thank him but unfortunately I cannot return the
compliment.”  Ackman’s wager had already pitted him against Daniel Loeb
in a rare public dispute among hedge-fund managers over whether
Herbalife is a legitimate enterprise or a fraud. On Jan. 10,
three weeks after Ackman disclosed his bet against Herbalife,
Loeb’s Third Point LLC reported in a regulatory filing that its
hedge funds held 8.9 million company  shares  at year-end.  Herbalife had about 108 million shares outstanding as of
Oct. 24, according to the company’s latest quarterly report.  Sohn Presentation  Speaking at the Sohn Investment Conference in New York on
Dec. 20, Ackman detailed his short-selling strategy through a
presentation that lasted more than three hours, including a
question-and-answer period, and featured more than 340 slides.
Accompanied by Pershing Square’s chief attorney, Ackman said
Herbalife uses inflated pricing, misleading sales information
and a complicated incentive structure to hide a pyramid scheme  Icahn, in an interview yesterday with  Trish Regan  on
Bloomberg Television, said he doesn’t “like” or “respect”
Ackman and questioned his motives for publicizing the Herbalife
short sale. In a short sale, an investor sells borrowed shares
in anticipation the price will drop, providing a profit when the
trade is closed out.  “You don’t go out and get a room full of people to bad-
mouth the company,” Icahn said. “If you want to be in that
business, why don’t you join the SEC,” Icahn added, referring
to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Legal Dispute  Icahn, like Ackman, has been accused of using aggressive
tactics to squeeze profits from his investments. During a
takeover battle for Trans World Airlines in the 1980s, TWA
Chairman C.E. Meyer Jr. famously described Icahn as “one of the
greediest men on Earth.”  Ackman said yesterday in an interview that the falling out
between the two dates to 2003, when his Gotham Partners LP and
its affiliates agreed to sell Icahn a 15 percent stake in
Hallwood Realty Partners at $80 a share. The contract included a
provision that Icahn called “schmuck insurance,” according to
Ackman: if Icahn sold the stake at a higher price within three
years, Ackman’s investors got to share in the added profits.  A year later, Hallwood was sold for about $136 a share and
“Carl owed my investors about $5 million,” Ackman said in the
interview. Icahn refused to pay and Ackman sued, starting a
court battle that would last until 2011, according to Ackman,
when his investors finally got their money.  ‘Never Asked’  “Eight years after he was supposed to pay, we got justice
and Carl paid,” Ackman said. “He called me to congratulate me
for winning and said, ‘Now we can be friends.’ I told him I had
no interest in being his friend.”  Icahn disputed that version of events in today’s statement.  “To get the record straight, I never asked Ackman to be my
friend,” he said.  Icahn said he was helping Ackman “out of a jam” in the
2003 transaction. Hallwood was acquired in a merger rather than
through an outright sale, Icahn said, adding that his firm voted
against the deal.  “We did not believe that the agreement covered such a
situation,” he said. “However, Bill sued and was able to
convince New York courts” not to follow precedents set in other
states.  After Herbalife closed at $42.50 on Dec. 18, the day before
Ackman’s wager against the stock was first reported by CNBC, the
shares  dropped  more than 12 percent the next day. By Christmas
Eve they closed at $26.06, down 39 percent in four trading
sessions.  Charity Pledge  Herbalife shares have rallied since the conference after
the company and other investors rebutted Ackman’s case. The
stock rose 0.8 percent today to close at $43.59 in New York.  During the conference, Ackman said he had turned over more
than a year’s worth of research to the U.S. Federal Trade
Commission in support of his contention that Herbalife is a
pyramid scheme, adding that he would give any profits from the
short sale to charity. After Third Point questioned the basis of
Pershing Square’s thesis in a January note to clients, Ackman
said his goal was to “shine a spotlight” on Herbalife “so
that the world better understands” the facts about the company.  In yesterday’s interview, Icahn questioned Ackman’s motives
and said the money manager was being “completely disingenuous”
about shedding light on the company. “But I think  Bill Ackman 
is disingenuous,” he said.  New Fund  Regarding Ackman’s plan to donate any profits from the
trade, Icahn asked during the interview, “Is he giving the
money he makes for all his limited partners to charity?” If his
investors profit, the billionaire said, Ackman “becomes
famous” and “gets more money in” for new hedge funds.  Pershing Square is seeking at least $3 billion for a new
fund that will eventually be publicly traded on the London Stock
Exchange, according to a November investor letter. The firm had
raised $2.2 billion, according to the letter, primarily from
existing clients who converted some or all of their holdings in
the firm’s other vehicles.  Icahn and Ackman have a similar approach to investing. Both
short stocks they deem overvalued and both buy shares in
companies they view as under-performing and then agitate for
changes designed to drive the company’s value up.  Icahn’s returns have been getting a lift from the 10
percent  stake  in  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  he reported holding in September.
Netflix shares soared 42 percent yesterday after the world’s
largest online-video service reported an unexpected profit,
leaving Icahn with a $490 million one-day paper gain on his
investment.  Fund Returns  Ackman’s funds have been hurt by the 18 percent stake
Pershing Square acquired in retailer J.C. Penney Co., last
year’s fifth-worst performing stock in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX) 
Index. Ackman ended the year with a 13 percent gain, according
to an investor briefed on the returns, compared with the 16
percent return by the S&P 500, with reinvested dividends.  Pershing Square averaged annual returns of 16 percent from
its inception at the end of 2004 through November, said the
investor, who requested anonymity because the information is
confidential. The returns are net of the fees Ackman charges
clients, listed as 1.5 percent of assets under management and 20
percent of profits in Pershing Square’s registration with the
SEC.  Icahn’s Gains  Icahn, who returned capital from outside clients in 2011,
said on CNBC today that his investments generated a 28 percent
return last year. He had a 5 percent return after expenses
through the first nine months of the year, according to a
quarterly report filed by  Icahn Enterprises  Holdings LP with the
SEC on Nov. 13.  In 2011, Icahn generated a 35 percent return before fees,
according to Icahn Enterprises. Icahn’s annual returns averaged
13 percent from the inception of his hedge funds in November
2004 through September, the holding company’s filings show. The
average annual figure is before fees that Icahn collected from
outside investors until two years ago.  Icahn, in yesterday’s interview, wouldn’t confirm a New
York Post report from earlier this month that he had also
acquired shares in Herbalife after learning of Pershing Square’s
trade, a move that could help drive the stock up and thereby
reduce Ackman’s profits.  “It’s no secret I don’t like Ackman,” Icahn said. “But
that doesn’t mean I am going to go in and buy stock in a company
necessarily just to get him.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  