-- Illinois Credit Rating Lowered by S&P as Pension Costs Rise
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-01-25T21:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/illinois-credit-rating-lowered-by-s-p-as-pension-burden-climbs.html
Illinois  had its debt rating cut one
level to A- by Standard & Poor’s, which threatened to downgrade
the state again following lawmakers’ failure to bolster the
nation’s worst-funded pension system.  The rating action comes before the state’s planned sale
next week of $500 million of general-obligation securities. The
deal is still set for Jan. 30, Abdon Pallasch, Illinois’s
assistant budget director, said in a telephone interview.  The move affects $26.6 billion of debt, according to Robin Prunty, an S&P analyst. It leaves Illinois’s bond grade six
levels below AAA and ties it with  California  as S&P’s lowest-
rated state. The combination of the pension burden and budgetary
stresses may push Illinois closer to speculative grade, the
company said.  “While it is unusual for a state rating to fall into the
‘BBB’ category, lack of action on pension reform and upcoming
budget challenges could result in further credit deterioration,
particularly if it translates into weaker liquidity,” Prunty,
who’s based in New York, wrote in a report released today.  The state has the weakest pension system in the U.S., with
39 percent funding for five major groups of public employees,
according to the Civic Federation, a Chicago-based nonprofit
research group.  Session’s End  Lawmakers ended their session Jan. 8 without acting on
measures to strengthen those funding levels. Illinois also has
more than $9 billion of overdue bills to vendors, according to
Judy Baar Topinka, the state’s comptroller.  “We’ve got to put on our seat belts here and understand
the credit-rating agencies aren’t going to give us better marks
until the legislature deals with” pension proposals, Governor
Pat Quinn said today in  Chicago  before the downgrade.  The state’s $97 billion unfunded pension liability
increases by $17 million each day.  The state’s fiscal struggles have yet to crimp demand for
its debt.  Illinois bonds due in August 2022 traded yesterday with a
yield of 2.92 percent, or 1.38 percentage points above benchmark
munis, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The yield spread has
narrowed from 1.73 percentage points when the bonds priced in
May.  Moody’s Investors Service said today it kept Illinois at
A2, one level higher than S&P’s grade, with a negative outlook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  