-- Ming Yang Expects Turbine Price to Rise as Rivals Shut Factories
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-25T06:19:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/ming-yang-expects-turbine-price-to-rise-as-rivals-shut-factories.html
China Ming Yang Wind Power Group
Ltd. (MY) , the country’s only turbine maker listed in the U.S.,
expects domestic equipment price to increase at least 5 percent
in 2013 from a year earlier as competitors shut factories.  Prices of wind turbines with 1.5-megawatt to 2-megawatt
capacity will average 4,000  yuan  ($643) a kilowatt this year,
Chief Executive Officer Zhang Chuanwei said in a phone interview
yesterday. This compared with 3,850 yuan in the fourth quarter
for machines with double-fed induction generators, in which Ming
Yang specializes, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance
data.  “The market has become concentrated after a number of
turbine manufacturers closed down or suspended production due to
uncompetitive products,” said Zhang. “Developers are choosing
products with higher power-generation capability and lower cost
per kilowatt-hour rather than those with the cheapest prices.”  The growth of China’s wind-power industry slowed after the
government tightened approvals of projects starting in 2011 to
ease grid congestion, forcing some manufacturers out of
business. Installations in 2012 may have fallen 20 percent to
16.4 gigawatts, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  China’s 10 largest producers, led by  Xinjiang Goldwind
Science & Technology Co. (2208) , are turning to new business models and
specialization to add value and survive the downturn. The
companies accounted for about 75 percent of installation demand
in the country last year, said Demi Zhu, a Beijing-based analyst
at BNEF. Ming Yang is the fourth-biggest wind turbine
manufacturer in China.  ‘Insufficient Expertise’  “China’s wind industry is undergoing an extensive
restructuring with many small equipment suppliers getting
eliminated,” Zhu said “Small producers are forced to quit the
market due to insufficient technological expertise and poor
after-sales service.”  Zhongshan-based Ming Yang expects to deliver 2.5 gigawatts
of wind-power equipment in 2013, including overseas markets,
Zhang said. The company, whose shares has risen 21 percent this
year in  New York  trading, will provide engineering, procurement
and construction services for wind farms abroad, mainly in India
and eastern Europe, with a combined capacity of about 400
megawatts this year.  Ming Yang will complete 300 megawatts of projects with
India’s  Reliance Power Ltd. (RPWR)  in 2013. The two companies plan to
install 2.5 gigawatts of generation capacity over three years
with financing support from China Development Bank Corp., Zhang
said.  Ming Yang also plans to supply machines to two offshore
wind power projects this year, each with 200 megawatts of
capacity, off China’s southern Guangdong province.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  