-- Iran Has Capacity to Quadruple Enrichment at Fordo, Aide Says
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-01-25T15:53:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/iran-has-capacity-to-quadruple-enrichment-at-fordo-aide-says.html
Iran  would be able to quadruple the
enrichment of 20 percent uranium at its Fordo facility by using
all the centrifuges installed there, a European diplomat said.  No date is set for the resumption of nuclear talks between
Iran and world powers, though February is looking more likely,
the diplomat told reporters today in Brussels on the condition
of anonymity. Contacts with Iran on a return to the negotiating
table continue, the diplomat said.  “We are currently in contact with them and we want to see
Iran come back to the negotiating table as soon as possible so
we can make concrete progress toward addressing the concerns of
the international community regarding their nuclear program,”
Maja Kocijancic, an EU foreign policy spokeswoman, said at a
separate Brussels briefing today. “We have proposed concrete
dates to the Iranian side and we’ve seen Iran come back with
different modalities all the time.”  The U.S. and its allies say Iran has sought the capability
to make atomic bombs. Iran, under international sanctions for
its nuclear work, insists its program is for the production of
civilian nuclear energy. Iran last week barred United Nations
atomic inspectors from gaining access to the Parchin military
complex, a suspected nuclear site.  The U.S. is determined to prevent Iran from going nuclear,
Senator  John Kerry , the nominee for secretary of state, said in
his confirmation hearing yesterday in  Washington .  “Our policy is not containment,” Kerry said. “It is
prevention, and the clock is ticking on our efforts to secure
responsible compliance.”  EU foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton  represents five
veto-wielding members of the UN Security Council plus  Germany  in
the talks with Iran, which last took place in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  