-- Jack McCarthy, Lord Abbett’s Stock Market Bull, Dies at 85
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-01-25T22:10:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/jack-mccarthy-lord-abbett-s-bullish-fund-manager-dies-at-85.html
John M. “Jack” McCarthy, who
became a widely quoted stock market bull during a 32-year career
at Lord Abbett & Co., where he managed the flagship  Affiliated
Fund (LAFFX) , has died. He was 85.  He died on Jan. 23 at Lenox Hill Hospital in  New York City 
following a brief illness, his son, Stephen McCarthy, said today
in an interview. McCarthy lived in  Manhattan .  From his start in 1960 as a research analyst, McCarthy rose
to chief investment officer and then, in 1983, co-managing
partner of Lord Abbett -- then located in  New York , now based
in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey .  He was for many years the manager of the Affiliated Fund,
which,  according to the firm , invests in undervalued companies
and has an average annual return of 10.8 percent since 1950. The
fund had $6.4 billion under management at the end of 2012.  “He was known as a great optimist, a raging bull, a
contrarian, always looking for outward signs of change in the
markets,” Stephen McCarthy, who helps manage the family’s
investments as senior vice president of New York-based KCG
Capital Advisors, said today in an interview.  Forbes magazine, in a 1982 article, described McCarthy as
one of Wall Street’s “lonely bulls” in a period of “doom and
gloom,” when the  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  had dropped below
800 for the first time in two years.  Tracking Inflation  “Everyone says they buy on weakness, but I do it,”
McCarthy said, according to Forbes. He said he based his
optimism in large part on inflation projections: “When people
perceive that inflation is under control, the Dow isn’t going to
stop at 1000. It’ll probably keep going to 3000.” The index
closed above 3000 for the first time nine years later, in 1991.  Rather than focus on mathematic models, McCarthy relied
“on common sense and a bit of his  Brooklyn  Irish-Catholic
upbringing” in making his market calls, the Wall Street Journal
wrote in a 1980 profile. “There’s always something
undervalued,” McCarthy told the newspaper. “We tend to be in
out-of-favor industries nobody wants to own.”  McCarthy adjusted the fund’s investments based on expected
economic conditions 12 to 18 months in the future.  “To be very successful, you only have to make four major
calls in a decade,” he said, according to a 1987 article in
Changing Times magazine, now called Kiplinger’s Personal
Finance.  Fund Performance  “Affiliated has generated good though unremarkable returns
with its strategy, averaging 19.1 percent annually the past
decade,” Changing Times said in the article. “Since 1976, it
hasn’t beaten the  S&P 500  by more than 11 points nor trailed it
by more than 8,” and only in 1977 “did it fail to produce a
positive return,” the magazine said.  McCarthy retired in 1992. In a death  notice  published in
today’s New York Times, the firm wrote:  “Jack was an effective and inspiring leader who embodied
the values of integrity and stewardship on which our firm was
founded. His passion for the market, combined with his unique
communication skills and colorful personality made him a legend
within the financial adviser community.”  John Michael McCarthy was born on April 9, 1927. After
serving in the U.S. Army during World War II, he obtained a
bachelor’s degree in economics in 1951 from St. Francis College
in Brooklyn, New York, and a master’s in business administration
in 1953 from  New York University .  ‘Respected Gentlemen’  He worked as a trust officer at First National City Bank
from 1951 to 1959, before joining Lord Abbett. He became
research director and a partner in 1972.  A 1973  newspaper advertisement  publicizing a presentation
by McCarthy in Deland,  Florida , described him as portfolio
manager for $1.7 billion in investments and “one of Wall
Street’s most respected gentlemen.”  In addition to son Stephen and his wife Kathleen, survivors
include McCarthy’s wife, the former Mary Hickey; his twin
sister, Sister Mary Eileen McCarthy; a brother, James McCarthy;
another son, Neil, a senior  money manager  at OppenheimerFunds
Inc. in New York, and his wife Elizabeth; daughter Tara and her
husband Orrin; daughter Laurette and her husband Harold; and
three grandchildren, MaryKate, Kevin and Kaitlin.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  