-- Japan Fund Said to Discuss Sony-Panasonic Battery Merger
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2013-01-25T11:23:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/japan-state-fund-said-to-discuss-sony-panasonic-battery-merger.html
A Japanese state-backed fund
approached companies including  Sony (6758)  Corp. and  Panasonic Corp. (6752) 
about combining operations making rechargeable batteries,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  Innovation Network Corp. of  Japan  has also held talks with
an  NEC Corp (6701) .- Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  battery venture, said the person,
who declined to be identified because the matter is private. The
discussions are at an early stage, the person said. Panasonic
and Sony are Japan’s biggest makers of lithium-ion batteries.  Sony jumped to about a nine-month high in Tokyo trading
after the Yomiuri newspaper reported today that INCJ may invest
in a combination between Sony’s battery unit and the NEC-Nissan
venture. INCJ last year led a consolidation of Japanese liquid-
crystal-display makers struggling against competitors from China
and South Korea.  Spokespeople for Sony, Nissan, NEC, Panasonic and INCJ
declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg News.  The state-backed fund can offer the money needed to expand
businesses with manufacturers of electric cars, said Renzo
Yamamoto, the chief analyst at Techno Systems Research Co. in
 Tokyo .  “The industry has the potential for significant expansion,
and that means battery makers will need money to build
facilities and to develop new products,” Yamamoto said.  Nissan Leaf  The consolidation proposal isn’t related to the current
investigation of batteries supplied by Kyoto-based  GS Yuasa
Corp. (6674)  that led to the grounding of Boeing Co.’s 787 Dreamliner
fleet, the person said.  Yomiuri reported that the deal between Sony and the NEC-
Nissan venture, known as Automotive Energy Supply, may take
place in the year starting April 1. The newspaper cited people
it didn’t identify.  Automotive Energy Supply, 51 percent owned by Nissan, makes
battery packs for Leaf electric cars. The venture has a plant in
Zama, where the company is based.  Panasonic took 95.6 billion yen ($1.06 billion) in charges
during the fiscal first half ended Sept. 30 to reform its unit
making lithium-ion batteries used in consumer electronics goods.
President  Kazuhiro Tsuga  said in October the Osaka-based company
may pull out of businesses with operating margins of less than 5
percent by March 2016.  Seeking Alliances  Sony Chief Executive Officer Kazuo Hirai said in April he
would consider alliances for its battery unit as part of his
plan to revive the maker of Bravia TVs following four straight
annual losses. The company was in talks to find customers for
car batteries, it said in 2009.  INCJ took a 70 percent stake in a display venture that
initially included the LCD operations at Sony,  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  and
 Hitachi Ltd. (6501)   The fund, started in 2009 to spur growth by promoting
consolidation and nurturing new businesses, has the capacity to
invest 2 trillion yen, according to its  website . Its
shareholders include 27 corporations such as Sony, Panasonic and
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)   Last month, Renesas Electronics Corp., the ailing Japanese
chipmaker, agreed to sell new shares to a group led by INCJ to
raise at least 150 billion yen.  The fund’s past deals include a $680 million investment for
a 40 percent stake in Landis+Gyr AG, a Swiss electronic-meter
company majority-owned by Toshiba, and a minority investment in
Kureha Battery Materials Japan Co., a closely held company that
makes anode material for lithium-ion batteries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  