-- Bleeding Kansas Shows Peril of GOP Bid to End Income Tax
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2013-01-25T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/kansas-bonds-left-behind-highlight-risks-of-levy-cuts-taxes.html
Kansas Governor  Sam Brownback  has a
prairie-wide smile, a friendly manner and an abiding hatred of
his state’s income tax. He pushed an unprecedented cut for
individuals and small businesses through the legislature last
year and is now plotting, as he says, to “take it to zero.”  Neighboring states in the nation’s sprawling midsection
have taken note and are moving to piece together tax cuts, lest
Kansas lure away jobs -- which is exactly what Brownback, a 56-
year-old first-term Republican, wants to do. At least eight
governors have said this month they want to cut or eliminate
their levies.  “Kansas is the starter gun for tax competition,” said
 Grover Norquist , president of Americans for  Tax Reform , the
Washington-based group that pressures members of Congress to
sign a no-tax-increase pledge. “Brownback fired off the shot
that said ‘Go.’”  The race presents significant hurdles. Kansas lawmakers
haven’t figured out how to pay for the tax cuts without
potentially crippling public schools and other local government
functions. Reducing the income tax has left a projected $2.5
billion revenue hole through fiscal 2018, according to the
Kansas Legislative Research Department. On Jan. 11, a state
court ruled that the legislature was illegally underfunding
schools and ordered a payment of $440 million.  “It’s a major fiscal risk,” Chris Mier, managing director
of analytical services at Loop Capital Markets in  Chicago , said
of Brownback’s income-tax push. “Are the alternative revenue
sources going to produce the revenue they need?”  Bond Penalty  Other investors may share that view. Kansas issuers trailed
gains in the $3.7 trillion tax-exempt market during the past
year. The bonds’ 5.5 percent return in 2012 was the eighth-worst
among all U.S. states, beating only  Connecticut ,  Delaware ,
 Maryland , New Mexico, North Carolina,  Utah  and  Virginia ,
according to Barclays Plc data.  Moody’s Investors Service said Jan. 17 that the school-
funding ruling represents a negative credit risk for the state
and “underscores the challenge” confronting Kansas to offset
the revenue loss from the income-levy reductions.  The tax-cut drama in Topeka, the state capital, pits
competing visions of economic development. Brownback and other
Republicans share the bedrock belief that eliminating income
taxes will spur economic growth that would make those levies
unnecessary.  Texas , one of seven states that don’t have a levy
on wages, is held out as the example of how growth thrives when
income isn’t taxed.  “What this is is a plan, a strategy that gets us to job
growth,” Brownback said in an interview yesterday in his office
in the capitol. “I’m tired of losing jobs to Texas, so alright,
let’s start fighting with them. That’s what we’re doing.”  Schools Risk  Critics say education and other government services are
important components of economic development and are at risk
under the governor’s plan. Texas has the good fortune of living
on an ocean of oil, they say, and Brownback’s belief in the
power of tax cuts is misguided.  “In the governor’s mind, if you take two and subtract one
you come up with three,” said Representative Nile Dillmore, a
Democrat from Wichita. “It just doesn’t add up.”  The top Kansas income-tax bracket dropped Jan. 1 to 4.9
percent from 6.45 percent. The change also eliminated taxes on
almost 200,000 small businesses.  Brownback went further in a Jan. 15 speech to lawmakers,
calling for more cuts in 2014, 2016 and 2017. To help pay for
it, he proposed eliminating some tax exemptions and making
permanent a temporary 1-percentage point increase in the  sales
tax  enacted in 2010. The higher sales tax isn’t popular among
some Republicans and interest groups.  Tax Well  “It’s going back to the tax well again,” said Mike O’Neal, a former Republican speaker of the  House of
Representatives  and now president and chief executive officer of
the Kansas Chamber, the largest business trade group in the
state. “When you have a problem, let’s not have taxes be the
first thing out of your mouth.”  Brownback said in the interview that education and other
vital services would be protected. Without the higher sales tax,
now at 6.3 percent, and other changes, “the options are pretty
stark,” he said.  The Kansas approach is one bookend of state economic
development efforts. The other is represented by Massachusetts
Governor Deval Patrick, who on Jan. 16 proposed a 1-percentage
point hike in his state’s income-tax rate, to 6.25 percent, to
help cover the costs of education and transportation. Patrick
also urged cutting the sales levy.  ‘Bleeding Kansas’  Brownback said 30 years of spending hasn’t improved the
state of 2.9 million people, with its long history of political
struggle. Nineteenth-century slavery battles with neighboring
 Missouri  earned the state the moniker “Bleeding Kansas.”
Topeka schools were one of the defendants in the landmark 1954
Supreme Court decision Brown v. Board of Education, which
outlawed racially segregated schools.  More recently, politicians have fought over abortion,
evolution, immigration -- and now taxes, reviving the specter of
border wars.  Missouri is one of at least eight states --  Nebraska ,
 Oklahoma ,  Wisconsin ,  Indiana ,  Ohio , Virginia and  North Carolina 
are the others -- considering tax cuts. It has long had a
competitive business relationship with Kansas. Television ads
sponsored by a group advocating tax cuts are running in the
Kansas City, Missouri, market, raising fears that jobs will
leave the state for lower taxes next door.  “I do think it’s hard to be anywhere near Kansas right
now,” said Amy Blouin, executive director of the Missouri
Budget Project, a St. Louis-based nonprofit group that analyzes
state spending.  ‘Valuable Lessons’  While Blouin says Kansas is providing “some valuable
lessons” on the difficulties of tax-cutting, some Republicans
in the Missouri legislature are pushing measures that would roll
back business levies. St. Louis businessman Rex Sinquefield
sponsored a ballot proposal last year that would have eliminated
the income tax and replaced it with a higher sales tax. The
measure didn’t qualify for the 2012 ballot.  It’s too soon to draw conclusions about the outcome of the
Kansas tax debate, said Mark Tallman, associate  executive
director  for advocacy at the Kansas Association of School
Boards. If state aid is cut, he said, the pressure will mount on
many districts to raise property taxes -- if voters allow it.
Many school districts are close to their levy limits, he said.  The consequences of cutting taxes don’t only concern
Brownback’s opponents. Don Hineman, a Republican House member
from the western Kansas town of Dighton, compared the state-
versus-state tax battle to an arms race.  “Everybody’s racing to zero and then we lose that
advantage,” he said. “It becomes a zero-sum game.”  It’s still “productive” to cut taxes, Hineman said,
though it remains to be seen whether lawmakers can balance the
desire to reduce levies with the need to preserve government
services.  “That’s the big question,” he said. “There are no easy
answers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in Topeka at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  