-- Karoon Surges After Oil Discovery Off Brazil Coast: Sydney Mover
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-01-25T06:49:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/karoon-climbs-most-in-15-months-on-brazil-oil-find-sydney-mover.html
Karoon Gas Australia Ltd. (KAR) , listed as
a possible takeover target by Citigroup Inc., rose the most in
15 months in Sydney after making a discovery off  Brazil , where
it may bid for more blocks.  The  shares  rose 14 percent, the most since Oct. 6, 2011, to
A$6.15, while the S&P/ASX 200 Index gained 0.5 percent. That
gives Mt. Martha, Victoria-based Karoon a market value of A$1.36
billion ($1.4 billion).  Karoon found oil at the Kangaroo-1 exploration well in
Brazil’s  Santos Basin , providing “confidence in the other
prospects within Karoon’s blocks,” the company said today in a
statement. The explorer will consider bidding on multiple oil
blocks in Brazil in an auction scheduled for May, Chief
Financial Officer Scott Hosking said today in a phone interview.  “We are reviewing the prospectivity of those blocks, and
the decision whether or not to participate will come in the next
few months,” Hosking said. “The appeal is that we have a
business unit in Brazil, and we’ve built a good knowledge base
in Brazil, and we’d like to apply that to new blocks.”  Karoon was ranked among 19 potential Australian takeover
targets for 2013 in a Dec. 17 report from Citigroup’s hedge fund
sales desk. Possible buyers for Karoon include  BG Group Plc (BG/)  and
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , Citigroup said.  The May auction will be the first time Brazil has sold
offshore oil licenses in six years, allowing energy companies to
expand in waters that may hold more than 50 billion barrels of
oil.  ‘Much Bigger’  Colombia ’s  Pacific Rubiales Energy Corp. (PRE)  agreed in
September to acquire a 35 percent stake in Karoon’s exploration
blocks off Brazil. Karoon plans to find a partner to develop its
holdings in  Peru  by mid-year before drilling later in 2013.  Karoon said today it plans to evaluate the Kangaroo
prospect through February and to drill the Emu and Bilby wells
next. It’s too early to call the Kangaroo result announced today
a commercial discovery, according to Hosking.  “While it wasn’t the primary target in this well, what
we’ve discovered from this target is that it is potentially much
bigger than we had thought,” Hosking said. “This will help us
with the next two wells,” he added.  Success at Emu or Bilby “would in combination with
Kangaroo make Karoon a major oil producer,”  Ivor Ries , a
Melbourne-based analyst at Wilson HTM Investment Group, wrote in
a note to clients today. The Kangaroo find may be about 60
million barrels, said Ries, who values Karoon shares at A$8.26.  The Australian company is exploring off the coasts of
Brazil and Peru after scrapping a proposed initial public
offering of its South American business in November 2010. Karoon
is also a partner with Petrobras, the state-run  oil company  in
Brazil, in the Maruja discovery in the Santos Basin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  