-- Khuzami Says SEC ‘Very Focused’ on Policing High-Speed Traders
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-01-25T22:34:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/khuzami-says-sec-very-focused-on-policing-high-speed-traders.html
Robert Khuzami , the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission’s enforcement chief, said the agency is
“very focused” on bringing cases against exchanges and traders
when system or programming failures harm investors.  The agency plans to bring more cases related to weak
controls that result in “real harm to clients” in addition to
those stemming from intentional misbehavior or rule violations,
Khuzami said today at a Securities Regulation Institute
conference in Coronado,  California .  “You are going to see a variety of cases in this area,”
said Khuzami, who plans to leave the SEC in two weeks after four
years as enforcement director. “It may not be an intent-based
violation, but the consequences are real and harmful in terms of
investor losses and market impact.”  The enforcement division’s scrutiny of electronic trading
follows a series of market breakdowns, including the so-called
flash crash of May 6, 2010, when the 30-stock Dow Jones
Industrial Average briefly fell 9.2 percent before recovering.
The SEC has since acquired technology to improve its ability to
track electronic orders and unravel market-destabilizing events.  During Khuzami’s tenure, the SEC has fined exchanges and
dark pool operators for actions that it found were detrimental
to investors. In September,  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  agreed to pay $5
million to resolve SEC claims that it routed market data earlier
to paying customers than to the public data feed.  Direct Edge  Khuzami, 56, also highlighted the commission’s 2011 case
against Direct Edge Holdings LLC for having weak controls that
led to about $2.8 million in trading losses and a system outage.  “As far as the enforcement angle, I think we are very
focused on things like compliance failures and rules violations
and situations where you have weak controls that result in
system outages,” he said.  Khuzami, a former federal prosecutor and top lawyer at
 Deutsche Bank AG (DB) , took over the SEC’s enforcement division in
2009. In recent weeks, he has defended its record of filing more
than 150 cases related to the financial crisis, including 65
actions against senior corporate officers.  That record has been criticized by some lawmakers, judges,
investors and at least one current commissioner who say the SEC
should have held more top executives accountable for practices
that led to taxpayer bailouts of financial institutions
including Bank of America Corp. and Citigroup Inc.  “It’s a very strong record,” Khuzami told Bloomberg’s
Television’s  Peter Cook  in an interview for the “Capitol
Gains” program scheduled to air Jan. 27. “We are leaving no
stone unturned in pursuing misconduct arising out of the
financial crisis.”  Suing CEOs  At today’s conference, Khuzami said much of the criticism
stems from expectations that chief executive officers of
investment banks should be sued over the sale of toxic mortgage
securities or derivatives based on bad mortgages.  “With rare exceptions” CEOs weren’t aware of how those
products were put together and marketed to investors, he said.  “Most of the public questions have to do with why  Jamie Dimon  and  Lloyd Blankfein  and  Dick Fuld  and their lieutenants
haven’t been charged,” he said, referring, respectively, to the
CEOs of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
the former head of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. “With rare
exceptions, that information and those issues -- those deals --
simply don’t rise to that level in the corporation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  