-- KLA-Tencor Surges on Samsung Spending Plans: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   L i s a   R a p a p o r t   a n d   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-01-25T21:57:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/kla-tencor-surges-on-samsung-spending-plans-san-francisco-mover.html
KLA-Tencor Corp. (KLAC) , a maker of
machinery used to produce semiconductors, rose the most in more
than three years after one of its biggest customers, Samsung
Electronics Co., said it would keep investing in new equipment.  KLA advanced 8.4 percent to $56.34 at the close in  New
York , for the biggest gain since June 1, 2009. The  stock  has
risen 10 percent in the past 12 months, compared with a 13
percent climb in the  Standard & Poor’s  500 index.  Samsung, the world’s largest maker of mobile phones, TVs
and computer-memory chips, said yesterday that it will maintain
 capital spending  for this year at 2012 levels. Analysts had
speculated that Samsung to reduce semiconductor spending by as
much as 40 percent, said Ben Pang, an analyst at B. Riley & Co.  “Investors were concerned about which company would fill
the gap,” Pang said. Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co.,
KLA’s  largest customer , has said it plans to limit most capital
outlays to the first half of 2013, he said.  “Samsung can
certainly fill the gap.”  Before Samsung laid out its spending plan, KLA yesterday
forecast fiscal third-quarter earnings excluding some items of
76 cents to 96 cents a share on revenue of $690 million to $750
million. The per-share forecast assumes a new, lower  tax rate ,
and it beat analysts’ average estimate for profit of 77 cents on
sales of $700 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mobility ‘Force’  The Milpitas, California-based company, which makes tools
that verify the proper completion of different stages in chip
production, is benefiting from surging demand for mobile
devices, Chief Executive Officer Richard Wallace said on a
conference call with investors yesterday.  “Consumer demand for mobility continues to be the primary
force behind semiconductor industry demand,” Wallace said.  Gross bookings in the third quarter, which ends in March,
will be $700 million to $850 million, the company said. The
earnings forecast assumes an effective tax rate of 18 percent to
account for the reinstatement of a research and development
credit.  Applied Materials Inc (AMAT) , the largest maker of chip equipment,
rose 1.8 percent to $12.83.  Lam Research Corp. (LRCX) , which also
produces circuit-making gear, rose 5.6 percent to $41.73.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in New York at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net ;
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  