-- Krungdhon Hospital Surges to Record on Buyout: Bangkok Mover
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2013-01-25T05:56:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/krungdhon-hospital-surges-to-record-on-buyout-bangkok-mover.html
Krungdhon Hospital Pcl (KDH) ,  Thailand ’s
second-smallest publicly traded hospital operator, surged to a
record in Bangkok trading after its largest shareholder
announced a buyout plan.  Krungdhon  jumped  13 percent to 63.50 baht as of the 12:30
p.m. local-time trading break, heading for the highest close
since it started trading in January 1990. The stock earlier
rallied by the 30 percent daily limit and was the biggest  gainer 
in the 497-member  SET Index (SET) , which advanced 0.4 percent.  Bangkok Dusit Medical Services Pcl (BGH) , the country’s biggest
private-hospital operator, will offer to buy the remaining
shares in Krungdhon after agreeing to boost its stake to 45
percent from 20 percent, the companies said in separate
regulatory filings today. Krungdhon will benefit from Bangkok
Dusit’s larger shareholding through upgraded facilities,
according to Bualuang Securities Pcl.  “The acquisition price is not expensive,” Narumon Ekasamut, a Bualuang analyst, wrote in a report today. “The key
benefit is geographical diversification.”  Bangkok Dusit agreed to buy 3.74 million shares, or a 25
percent stake, of Krungdhon at 55 baht each from existing major
shareholders, it said in its statement to the stock exchange.
The company will make the tender offer to other shareholders at
the same price, according to the statement.  Bangkok Dusit’s offer price for Krungdhon, while 1.8
percent lower than yesterday’s close, was 20 percent higher than
the average closing level in the past three months, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg. Krungdhon, which has a market value
of 953 million baht ($32 million), is the second smallest
hospital stock in the 14-member  SET Health Care Service Index. (SETHELTH)   Bangkok Dusit will benefit from a broadening of its
customer base within its hospital business, it said. Bangkok
Dusit fell 0.4 percent to 128.50 baht in Bangkok.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  