-- Netflix Up for Second Day as Icahn Predicts Further Rise
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2013-01-25T21:49:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/netflix-increases-for-second-day-as-icahn-predicts-further-rise.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the world’s largest
online-video service, advanced 16 percent at the close in New
York, adding to yesterday’s 42 percent surge and pushing the
stock to its highest since September 2011.  The shares have gained about 60 percent in the two days
since the Los Gatos, California-based company posted an
unexpected fourth-quarter profit and a larger-than-anticipated
gain in customers. Netflix gained $22.70 to $169.56.  Billionaire  Carl Icahn , with a 10 percent stake, added to
the enthusiasm when he predicted further gains for the stock
after the Jan. 23 earnings report. While down from the July 2011
record high of $298.73, Netflix has more than doubled since the
investor disclosed his  holdings  on Oct. 31.  Coinstar Inc. (CSTR) , owner of the Redbox DVD rental kiosks and a
partner with Verizon Communications Inc. in the Redbox Instant
streaming service, benefited from Netflix’s gain, rising 6.9
percent to $52.06 for the biggest gain since Aug. 16.  Investors may expect Coinstar to top fourth-quarter
forecasts when it reports results on Feb. 7, said  Eric Wold , an
analyst with B. Riley & Co. in San Francisco. They also may be
looking for improved performance in 2013, he said. Analysts are
forecasting 76 cents a share in fourth-quarter profit, down from
$1 a year earlier, the average of six estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Netflix Effect  “People saw how Netflix moved and are expecting the same
thing out of Coinstar,” Wold said in an interview.  Netflix, which faces increased competition from rivals such
as Redbox, posted fourth-quarter  net income  of $7.9 million, or
13 cents a share, defying analysts’ forecasts of a loss. The
company also signed more than 2 million new U.S. Internet
subscribers, bringing the total to 27.2 million in the U.S.  “A major sea change is going on in viewership which very
strongly favors Netflix,” Icahn said in an interview after the
company posted its results.  “We still own every share we bought and we believe it’s
still got tremendous potential,” he said.  Netflix finished the year with more than 33 million
streaming subscribers worldwide and 8.22 million in the U.S. who
get DVDs by mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niamh Ring in New York at 
 nring@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at 
 kmiller@bloomberg.net  