-- Netherlands Rejects Nazi-Era Claim for 188 Artworks
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2013-01-25T11:31:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/netherlands-rejects-nazi-era-claim-for-188-artworks.html
A Dutch government panel rejected
claims by the heirs of two Jewish art dealers for all but one of
189 works in the national collection, citing a lack of evidence
that they owned the works and lost them due to Nazi persecution.  The  Restitutions Committee  recommended that the Dutch
government return Ferdinand Bol’s “Man With a High Cap” to the
21 descendants of the brothers Nathan and Benjamin Katz. This
was the only instance where both ownership and loss under duress
could be ascertained, it said. The gallery’s records have not
survived.  “Ownership of most of the works has not proved very
probable,” the Dutch Restitutions Committee said in the
 recommendation , published late yesterday on its website.
“During the occupation, the Katz brothers often acted as
middlemen and intermediaries for German buyers.”  The brothers operated a flourishing art dealership in the
Dutch city of Dieren and continued to trade after the Nazi
invasion of the Netherlands in 1940. The heirs, represented by
Thomas Kline of  Andrews Kurth LLP  in  Washington , included 65
artworks sold to the German museum director Hans Posse for  Adolf Hitler ’s planned “Fuehrermuseum” in Linz in their claim.  Goering’s Collection  The claim also comprised 14 works sold to Hermann Goering,
Hitler’s right-hand man in the Nazi party, for his vast private
collection, and 101 works sold to Alois Miedl, a German dealer
with ties to Goering who operated in the Netherlands.  Both Hitler and Goering prized Dutch  Old Masters  highly.
Paintings they purchased from the Katz dealership included works
by Salomon van Ruysdael, Philips Wouwerman, Jacob Gerritsz Cuyp,
as well as copies of Rembrandts and Van Dycks.  The paintings were returned to the Netherlands from  Germany 
after World War II, part of a vast trove of art plundered by the
Nazis and recovered by the Allies.  “The Katz family is disappointed in today’s decision,”
the heirs said in an e-mailed statement sent late yesterday.
“We believe these sales were made under pressure, and were not
normal business transactions. The family will be requesting
reconsideration of its claim.”  Their dealings with Nazi buyers initially helped to protect
the Katz brothers from some anti-Jewish measures. Yet the
dealership went into liquidation in February 1941 and its assets
were taken over by an “Aryan” business for which they
continued to work. Nathan Katz left for  Switzerland  in 1942.  Rembrandt Swap  His brother left for  Spain  with a group of other relatives
later that year after Nathan had arranged their visas. Their
permission to emigrate was obtained in return for a Rembrandt
painting. It has since been restituted to the family.  “Although the pressure on the brothers and their family
built up steadily during the occupation as a consequence of
increasing anti-Jewish measures by the Nazi regime, the Katz
brothers enjoyed a special position as long as they continued
supplying art to Posse,” the committee found.  After the war, Nathan Katz was awarded a medal by the Dutch
government for financially supporting refugees in Switzerland.
The brothers’ dealings with Nazi collectors during the
occupation also became the subject of an investigation by the
Dutch Political Intelligence Department. The case against them
was eventually dismissed.  In the instance of the Bol painting, it is likely that
Nathan Katz sold it to Posse to secure the departure of members
of his family, the committee said. The sale took place in
November 1941 -- a month after a general emigration ban for Jews
in the Netherlands and as the first deportations took place.  Muse highlights include  Zinta Lundborg’s   New York  weekend
and  Lewis Lapham  on history.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 