-- Nigeria’s Boko Haram Members Trained in Mali, Minister Says
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2013-01-25T15:38:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/nigeria-s-boko-haram-members-trained-in-mali-minister-says.html
The Nigerian government said some
members of Boko Haram, the militant Islamist group it’s been
fighting since 2009, were trained in northern  Mali  and have
links with Islamist insurgents controlling the region.  Nigeria ,  Africa ’s largest oil producer, sent troops to help
expel Islamists from northern Mali as a part of the West African
country’s own fight against Boko Haram, “because we know that
there was a linkage between them and the groups in Mali,”
Foreign Minister Olugbenga Ashiru said in an interview yesterday
in the Ethiopian capital Addis Ababa.  “Some of those characters were trained in northern Mali,”
Ashiru said. “So if we can destroy their capability in northern
Mali it will help us at home.”  Nigeria, Africa’s most populous nation, is battling an
insurgency by Boko Haram that has killed hundreds of people
since 2009. The group, which wants to establish an Islamic state
in Nigeria, has carried out bomb and gun attacks in the mainly
Muslim north and Abuja, the capital. Nigeria’s more than 160
million people are almost evenly split between the north and a
largely Christian south.  Nigeria is sending 1,200 troops to Mali to join soldiers
from  France  and other West African countries seeking to
recapture territory lost to Islamist militants and ethnic
Touareg separatists. The crisis may spill into Nigeria if not
brought under control, President  Goodluck Jonathan  told
lawmakers on Jan. 17.  Links Investigated  The government is investigating links between Boko Haram
and Islamist insurgents in control of almost two-thirds of Mali,
Colonel Mohammed Yerima, director of information at Nigeria’s
 Defense Ministry , said Jan. 22.  Yerima said there’s no difference between the Mali-based
Islamists and Boko Haram, and Nigerian authorities will treat
them the same way. He said there is “every possibility that
they will heighten their attacks.”  Central Bank of Nigeria Governor Lamido Sanusi backed the
government’s move, urging the Nigerian forces to try to find the
training camps in northern Mali and stop the militants from
there. The 2011 ouster of  Muammar Qaddafi  in  Libya  destabilized
the region, with many sub-Saharan Africans in his army fleeing
to their countries with weapons, he said.  Abuse Allegations  “A lot of this problem seems to be emanating from the
deserts of Mauritania and Mali and of course southern  Algeria ,”
Sanusi said in an interview today at the  World Economic Forum  in
Davos. “So, it’s in the interest of the country to go to the
source and nip it.”  Boko Haram has links with militant groups in North Africa
and in northern Mali, President Jonathan told  CNN  on Jan. 23. He
rejected accusations by rights groups that the Nigerian
authorities are inflaming the situation by committing abuses in
their crackdown on Boko Haram.  Human Rights Watch  and  Amnesty International  said Nigerian
forces committed extrajudicial killings, shot detained people
dead or beat people to death in detention and in the streets.
The groups said actions by Nigerian forces are illegal and are
inflaming civilians who aren’t linked to the group, giving Boko
Haram more ground to recruit people.  Misrule, Poverty  Jonathan called these accusations “insinuations by
interest groups.” He also denied claims by rights groups that
government corruption and poverty are among the root causes of
the problem.  “Boko Haram isn’t the result of misrule, definitely not.
And sometimes we’ll feel that it’s the result of poverty,
definitely not,” Jonathan said on CNN. “We shouldn’t play
politics with Boko Haram.”  The extrajudicial killing of founder  Mohammed Yusuf  and
other members in 2009 became “a rallying cry for the group’s
subsequent violent campaign,” New York-based Human Rights Watch
said in an October report. Government corruption, police
brutality, inter-communal violence and poverty, which is more
severe in the north, are among the problems that provide a
fertile environment for Boko Haram to recruit, it said.  Both Boko Haram and Nigerian security forces may be guilty
of crimes against humanity in the conflict that left 2,800
people dead, including more than 1,500 victims of Boko Haram
attacks, Human Rights Watch said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  