-- Novartis Wins Wider Use of Gleevec in Children’s Cancer
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-01-25T19:47:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/novartis-wins-wider-use-of-gleevec-in-children-s-cancer.html
Novartis AG (NOVN) ,  Europe ’s biggest
drugmaker, won approval to expand the use of its top-selling
drug, Gleevec, to children newly diagnosed with the most common
pediatric cancer.  The therapy can be used against a form of acute
lymphoblastic leukemia that affects about 2,900 children a year,
the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  said today in a statement.
The cancer causes the bone marrow to produce too many immature
white blood cells, crowding out the healthy cells needed to
fight infection, and spreads rapidly if untreated.  Gleevec, first approved for leukemia in 2001, generated
 $4.68 billion  in sales last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Its patent protection against generic competitors
runs out next year, and Basel, Switzerland-based Novartis has
been trying to shift patients to a new treatment, Tasigna.  Today’s approval means “the number of cancer medications
for children are on the rise,”   Richard Pazdur , the FDA’s
director of hematology and oncology products, said in the
statement.  Gleevec had been cleared for children previously diagnosed
with Philadelphia chromosome positive acute lymphoblastic
leukemia who had relapsed. The drug should be used in
combination with chemotherapy, the agency said. Its most common
side effects are a decrease in infection-fighting blood cells, a
reduction in blood platelets that help clotting, liver toxicity
and infections, the FDA said.  Gleevec blocks proteins called tyrosine kinases that
promote the development of cancerous cells, the FDA said. The
therapy’s introduction led a group of targeted drugs that have
helped eradicate childhood blood cancers in 90 percent of
patients during the past decade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  