-- Obama Picks Rejected as Court Casts Doubt on Recess Power
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-01-27T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/obama-nlrb-recess-appointments-unlawful-court-says.html
President  Barack Obama  violated the
Constitution by making appointments to the federal labor board
without Senate approval, a U.S. appeals court said in a ruling
that calls hundreds of board decisions into question and may
extend to the head of the new consumer finance agency.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Washington sided with
Republican lawmakers in a unanimous opinion. The court held that
Obama’s recess appointments to the U.S.  National Labor Relations
Board  last year, made after Republicans refused to consider his
nominees, were “constitutionally invalid” because the Senate
wasn’t in recess at the time.  “Allowing the president to define the scope of his own
appointments power would eviscerate the Constitution’s
separation of powers,” U.S. Circuit Judge David Sentelle wrote
in a 46-page opinion -- one that may be cited in challenges to
recess appointments throughout the federal government, possibly
upending a longstanding presidential practice.  In the near-term, the Jan. 25 ruling, one of about a dozen
similar cases, may be used to undo more than 200 decisions by
the NLRB over the past year, as well as regulations by the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, whose director,  Richard Cordray , was named at the same time as the board members. The
White House said the ruling won’t affect Cordray and is
restricted to the company at issue. Republicans, meanwhile, have
demanded the NLRB appointees quit immediately.  Future Appointments  The future of recess appointments as used by past
presidents is now in doubt, said C. Boyden Gray, the White House
counsel under Republican President  George H.W. Bush .  “The take-away is that the president doesn’t have the
authority to decide when a recess exists so he can make an
appointment whenever he feels like it,” said Gray, who is
counsel in a separate suit challenging Obama’s appointment
power.  In recent years, Democratic President  Bill Clinton  made 139
recess appointments, while Republican President  George W. Bush 
made 171 and Obama, a Democrat, has made 32, according to the
 Congressional Research Service .  The appeals court ruling came in a case brought by a soda
bottling company over an NLRB decision in a collective
bargaining agreement. The company argued that a recess only
occurs in the period between one session of Congress and the
next, not when members are simply absent and the Senate hasn’t
adjourned.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney , calling the
decision “novel and unprecedented,” said it contradicts 150
years of practice by Democratic and Republican administrations.  Hundreds of recess appointments have occurred dating back
to 1867 during so-called intra-sessions, he said.  Court Conflicts  The ruling also conflicts with decisions by three other
federal appeals courts regarding the scope of the president’s
recess appointment authority, including rulings by the U.S.
appeals courts in Atlanta and San Francisco, according to an
administration official who requested anonymity to discuss the
case before the  Justice Department  decides whether to appeal.  The government may seek a rehearing by the three-judge
panel that ruled on Jan. 25, or instead seek a so-called en banc
review by a larger panel of circuit judges. It may also move to
request the U.S.  Supreme Court  take up the matter.  The Supreme Court is more likely to accept such an appeal
when there is a split among the federal appeals courts.  The Justice Department is considering all of its options,
including a potential en banc appeal, the official said.  First Ruling  The ruling is the first substantive decision by a federal
appeals court in the recent challenges to the president’s naming
of three NLRB members Jan. 4, 2012, while the Senate was holding
so-called pro-forma sessions. Such sessions sometimes involved a
single senator appearing in the chamber every third day.  To prevent Obama from making appointments after Congress
started a holiday break in December 2011, House and Senate
Republicans refused to formally adjourn as they sought to block
the appointment of Cordray, a former Ohio attorney general, as
the first head of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.  Obama put Cordray, who was nominated in July 2011, in his
post on the same day as the NLRB board members, an appointment
also being contested in a lawsuit in Washington federal court.
Obama renominated Cordray Jan. 24.  The court’s decision “casts serious doubt” on whether
Cordray’s recess appointment is constitutional, Senate Minority
Leader  Mitch McConnell  said in a statement.  McConnell and 41 other Republican senators filed court
papers challenging the NLRB appointments, and McConnell attended
oral arguments in the case.  CFPB Power  Noel Francisco of the law firm  Jones Day , who represented
the unit of Noel Corp., the Yakima, Washington-based soda
bottler, seeking to overturn the appointments, said anyone
subject to regulations by the CFPB would be able to challenge
them in Washington.  “The CFPB world has been turned upside down,” Richard Gottlieb, who heads the financial industry group at Dykema
Gossett Pllc in Chicago, said by e-mail. He argued that “If the
Cordray appointment is void, then so too is every supervisory
action, and every new regulation promulgated by the CFPB arising
out of newly-created bureau powers.”  Carney said the ruling “has no bearing on” Cordray’s
appointment and it will have “no direct effect” on the CFPB,
according to Moira Vahey, an agency spokeswoman. The Justice
Department said in a statement it believes the recess
appointments are “constitutionally sound.”  Mark Pearce, the chairman of the NLRB, said in a statement
that the board will continue to issue decisions while more than
a dozen similar challenges are pending in other courts.  Threatened Rulings  The labor board’s website lists more than 200 decisions
issued since the recess appointments. Charles Donnelly, a lawyer
who won an NLRB case for the United Mine Workers in September
against a unit of  Alpha Natural Resources Inc. (ANR) , argued those
rulings are likely to be sent back for reconsideration once a
confirmed board is in place.  The cases include a December decision against  Dish Network
Corp. (DISH) , whose union workers said they were threatened by the
company, said David Van Os, a labor lawyer in Austin, Texas.  In another case last month, the board ruled a nonprofit
group in Buffalo wrongfully dismissed five employees for
comments posted on a Facebook Inc. web page about working
conditions, according to Michael Wasser, a policy analyst with
Jobs With Justice-American Rights at Work, a group that
advocates for worker rights.  The Jan. 25 decision by the Washington-based federal
appeals court came in two cases brought by Noel Corp. and union
members who were seeking to reverse rulings made by the Obama
appointees that require the company to execute a collective
bargaining agreement.  ‘Shocking’ Decision  “Republicans have employed unprecedented partisan delay
tactics and filibusters to prevent confirmation of nominees to
lead the NLRB, thus crippling the Board’s legal authority to
act,” Senator  Tom Harkin , an Iowa Democrat and chairman of the
Senate’s Health and Labor Committee, said in a statement.  Some Republican lawmakers asked after the ruling that two
of the board members appointed by Obama resign immediately. The
third member Obama named,  Terence Flynn , resigned last year.  Without the recess appointees, the board has only one
confirmed member. A Supreme Court decision in 2010 requires at
least three members of the board, which with a full complement
has five members, to conduct business.  Government’s Argument  In arguments before the panel on Dec. 5, Beth Brinkmann, a
Justice Department lawyer, said the Senate wasn’t in session or
acting as a legislative body from Jan. 3, 2012, to Jan. 23,
2012, because no legislation was passed, no votes were held and
no nominations were considered.  The president used his authority to fill positions that if
left vacant would have “substantially impaired the functioning
of an executive branch agency,” the Justice Department said in
court papers.  In the ruling, the appellate judges said the definition of
“the recess” in the Constitution’s Recess Appointments Clause
is limited to the period between one session and the next, and
that Congress had begun a new session at the time the president
made the appointments.  Besides Sentelle, U.S. Circuit Judges Karen LeCraft Henderson and  Thomas Griffith  were on the panel. All were named
by Republican presidents.  The judges rejected the administration’s position that an
“alternative appointment procedure” is available during breaks
in the Senate’s business during a continuing session.  Gary Chaison , a labor professor at Clark University in
Worcester, Massachusetts, said the administration will probably
appeal the case to the Supreme Court.  “It’s going to create chaos,” he said. “The labor board
decisions are going to be voided so I don’t think the
administration has an option but to take it further.”  The case is Noel Canning v. National Labor Relations Board,
12-1115, 12-1153, U.S. Court of Appeals for the  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 