-- Obama Names McDonough Chief of Staff as He Shuffles Aides
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2013-01-25T20:22:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/obama-to-name-mcdonough-new-chief-of-staff-official-says.html
President  Barack Obama  named  Denis McDonough , a longtime aide and deputy national security adviser,
as his chief of staff as he shuffled the lineup of top aides for
his second term.  McDonough replaces Jack Lew, who has been nominated as
Treasury secretary. Tony Blinken, Vice President  Joe Biden ’s
national security adviser, will replace McDonough as deputy
national security adviser.  “I have been counting on Denis for nearly a decade,”
Obama said in making the announcement at the White House. “He’s
been one of my closest and most trusted advisers.”  McDonough, 43, has advised Obama through the winding down
of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, the mission that killed
 Osama bin Laden  and the repealing of the military’s ban on gays
serving openly. He would become Obama’s fifth chief of staff,
one of the most powerful positions in the White House because he
serves as the president’s gatekeeper.  McDonough, a native of Minnesota, is an Obama loyalist. He
became a staff aide in 2007 when Obama was a U.S. senator from
Illinois. He served as a foreign policy adviser to Obama’s 2008
presidential campaign and joined the White House National
Security Council in 2009.  He served as NSC chief of staff and as deputy to national
security adviser Tom Donilon beginning in 2010.  Personnel Shifts  Among the other personnel shifts,  Lisa Monaco  will become
deputy national security adviser for homeland security and
counterterrorism upon the confirmation of  John Brennan , who
currently holds the job, as director of the Central Intelligence
Agency, the White House said.  Monaco since 2011 was assistant attorney general for
national security at the Department of Justice and earlier was a
chief of staff to FBI Director  Robert Mueller . Her appointment
and that of Blinken signal that Obama isn’t planning any major
shift in national security policy or foreign affairs.  Obama also is appointing Rob Nabors, now his chief
congressional liaison, as deputy White House chief of staff for
policy. Miguel Rodriguez will take over as director of
legislative affairs.  Jennifer Palmieri, deputy White House communications
director, is replacing the current communications director,  Dan Pfeiffer , who shifts to senior adviser to the president.  Plouffe Leaving  The president also bid farewell to  David Plouffe , who
managed Obama’s 2008 campaign and served as a senior adviser in
the White House. “Were it not for him, we would not have been
as effective a White House and I probably wouldn’t be here,”
Obama said.  David Simas is being appointed deputy senior adviser for
communications and strategy.  Obama’s Cabinet secretary, Chris Lu, is leaving the
administration and will be replaced by Danielle Gray. Katy Kale
is being appointed as an assistant to the president for
Management and Administration.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  