-- Obama Tells Hispanic Lawmakers He’ll Act on Immigration
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2013-01-26T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/obama-said-to-meet-hispanic-lawmakers-on-immigration-changes.html
President  Barack Obama  promised
Hispanic congressional leaders that he’ll move quickly to push a
rewrite of the nation’s immigration laws through Congress.  Obama next week will begin a public campaign to build
support for a broad immigration package that will include a
pathway to citizenship for the country’s 11 million undocumented
immigrants.  “He made it very clear that this is his number one
legislative priority,” Democratic Representative Xavier Becerra
of  California , said after meeting yesterday with Obama at the
White House. “In every sense of the word he is in the starting
gate.”  The immigration proposal will be the centerpiece of the
president’s planned stop on Jan. 29 in  Las Vegas ,  Nevada , a
state that Obama won in the last two elections and where
Hispanics make up 27 percent of the population.  Passage of a comprehensive immigration bill would fulfill a
promise Obama made in both of his presidential campaigns. He won
71 percent of Hispanic voters in his re-election victory. Last
June, he took executive action to halt deportations of young
people brought illegally to the U.S. as children and make them
eligible for work permits.  Since Obama won a second term, the administration has
intensified its work on a legislative plan with immigrant-rights
advocates, law-enforcement officials, and religious leaders who
support a change.  Senate Action  A bipartisan group of senators is working on a parallel
track to write a bill, and they may release an agreement as soon
as next week. White House officials and Democratic leaders are
negotiating over who will release their plan first, according to
congressional aides.  Senator  Patrick Leahy , a Vermont Democrat and chairman of
the Senate Judiciary Committee, plans to hold hearings on the
topic next month. The goal is for legislation to reach the
Senate floor by May or June.  While many Republicans in Congress have criticized creating
a system to grant citizenship to undocumented immigrants as an
amnesty for people who entered the U.S. illegally, the party has
softened its stance as Hispanic political clout has grown.  Former Republican National Committee Chairman  Haley Barbour 
said the nation needs to revamp immigration laws, including
citizenship for undocumented people, and he urged his party to
reach out to minorities or face more electoral losses.  “We’ve got to face up to some demographic issues” if
Republicans hope to win the White House in 2016, he said on
Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital With  Al Hunt ,”
airing this weekend.  Growing Population  National exit polls showed that 10 percent of the
electorate was Latino, compared with 9 percent four years ago
and 8 percent in 2004. Hispanics constitute 16.7 percent of the
total  U.S. population , the largest ethnic or racial minority,
according to the Census Bureau.  The former Mississippi governor, 65, said allowing many of
the illegal immigrants in the U.S. to stay makes economic as
well as political sense.  “If we will follow what’s good economic policy, we will
recognize that we are in a global battle for capital and for
labor,” Barbour said. “We need the labor, not just H-1B visas
for PhDs and engineering from  India , but also we need
agricultural labor.”  Technology companies, from  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
to  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , have backed efforts to
make it easier for scientists and engineers from abroad to come
to the U.S.  Inaugural Address  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said Obama will be
promoting the same set of proposals that were part of his
election campaign.  In his Jan. 21 inaugural address, Obama said the
immigration issue is tied to economic growth.  “Our journey is not complete until we find a better way to
welcome the striving, hopeful immigrants who still see America
as a land of opportunity, until bright young students and
engineers are enlisted in our workforce rather than expelled
from our country,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  