-- Obama Orders Schools to Give Disabled Kids Sports Access
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2013-01-25T20:16:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/obama-orders-schools-to-give-disabled-kids-sports-access.html
Children with disabilities must have
“equal access” to school athletics, U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s administration said today.  Schools are required to make “reasonable modifications”
to let disabled children take part in sports, the U.S. Education
Department’s Office for Civil Rights said in a letter to
districts. For example, a track team must give a visual cue
alongside a starter pistol, so a deaf student could race.  The agency told school districts that such accommodations
have long been required for extracurricular activities -- as
they are for academics -- under a 1973 civil-rights law,  section
504  of the Rehabilitation Act. Yet, a 2010 report by the U.S.
Government Accountability Office found that schools exclude many
students from athletics, and administrators told investigators
they were unclear about their responsibilities.  “Sports can provide invaluable lessons in discipline,
selflessness, passion and courage, and this guidance will help
schools ensure that students with disabilities have an equal
opportunity to benefit from the life lessons they can learn on
the playing field or on the court,” Education Secretary Arne Duncan said in a statement.  The government’s announcement has the potential to open up
sports to the disabled in the same way that Title IX
revolutionized women’s sports, said Kirk Bauer, executive
director of Disabled Sports USA, a Rockville, Maryland-based
nonprofit organization that offers athletics for individuals
with disabilities. Title IX is the federal civil rights law that
prohibits sex discrimination in education.  ‘A Landmark’  Only 12 states, including Maryland, Virginia and
 Pennsylvania , have established athletics programs for students
with disabilities, according to Bauer.  “It’s a big day,” said Bauer, a skier, hiker, cyclist and
Vietnam veteran who lost a leg to a grenade. “It’s a
landmark.”  Duncan’s directive to school districts came in the form of
a “guidance” letter, clarifying how the government interprets
the law.  In an example, the government said a one-armed swimmer
shouldn’t be subject to the “two-hand touch” finish rule in
swim events. In another case, a school would be required to
offer glucose testing and insulin administration to a diabetic
student who wants to join in a school-sponsored gymnastics club.  Separate Programs  School districts aren’t required to include students with
disabilities in “selective or competitive” programs, “so long
as the selection or competition criteria are not
discriminatory,” the agency said.  If students can’t participate in mainstream athletics,
districts should then offer separate programs, such as
wheelchair basketball or tennis, the government said. Those
programs should be “supported” equally to other programs. To
save money when few students are participating, schools and
districts can form district-wide or regional teams, the
Education Department said.  In the 2010 GAO report, investigators visited schools and
found that students with disabilities participated in
extracurricular athletics at rates as much as 56 percentage
points lower than those in the general population. Districts
varied in their levels of accommodations, and officials said
they needed government guidance in what they should offer.  In the 2009-2010 school year, about 13 percent of the more
than 49 million children in U.S. public schools had
disabilities, including dyslexia, autism and intellectual
impairments.  Public schools try to offer athletics programs for all
students, though they struggle because Congress has failed to
provide the money needed to pay for programs.  “In concept, we are supportive, but we remain concerned in
terms of the funding that would be needed,” said Reggie Felton,
assistant executive director at the Alexandria, Virginia-based
 National School Boards Association .  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  