-- Mohawked Prince, Ex-Premier Seek Presidency in Czech Vote
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-01-26T13:08:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/mohawked-prince-former-premier-seek-presidency-as-czechs-vote.html
Czechs voted today in a presidential
runoff with the leading candidate opposing the government’s
economic program as the minority administration extends its
austerity measures amid a  recession .  Former Prime Minister Milos Zeman was favored in opinion
polls over Karel Schwarzenberg, the millionaire prince and
foreign minister who’s promoting closer ties with the European
Union after a decade under Vaclav Klaus, a critic of the bloc
and the euro. Two days of voting ended at 2 p.m. in Prague and
results were expected within hours.  As the eastern EU member of 10.5 million struggles to exit
its second recession since 2009, government deficit cuts were
the campaign’s focus. Zeman criticized his opponent for backing
increases in sales taxes and an overhaul of the pension system.  “There’s a bit of a ’Sarkozy-Hollande’ feel to the Czech
presidential contest, with Mr. Zeman positioning himself as the
anti-austerity candidate at a time of economic malaise,”
Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in
 London , said in an e-mail. “But unlike the French presidency,
the Czech head of state’s powers are much more circumscribed
given the role’s largely ceremonial character.”  Voters will elect the ex-communist EU member’s third
president since the country gained independence 20 years ago.
Klaus, an economist who as premier oversaw the transition from a
centrally-planned to market economy two decades ago, replaced
the late Vaclav Havel in 2003 and is forbidden by law to seek
the post again.  Austerity Benefits  The government credits its austerity measures with helping
to cut borrowing costs. Yields on five-year koruna notes fell
172 basis points, or 1.72 percentage points, in 2012, touching a
record-low 0.66 percent on Dec. 27. The five-year rate stood at
0.87 percent yesterday, according to generic rates compiled by
Bloomberg.  The president, who until now had been elected by lawmakers,
selects the leader who attempts to form a government after
elections and influences  monetary policy  by holding the sole
right to name central bank board members. The position’s powers
haven’t changed under the new voting system.  Zeman, 68, and Klaus were rivals in the 1990s, heading the
two largest political parties. Zeman, an economist who worked as
a forecaster in the academy of science after the fall of
communism in 1989, won the premier’s office in 1998 when his
 Social Democrats  formed a minority government that ruled in an
agreement with the opposition Civic Democrats, then led by
Klaus.  More Investment  His economic program for the presidential race included
calls for more state investment and restoring progressive
taxation for higher earners. He has opposed Premier Petr Necas’s
pension overhaul, a program designed to boost private retirement
savings that was among reasons cited by  Standard & Poor’s  when
it lifted the rating on the country’s debt two steps to AA-, its
fourth-highest investment grade, in 2011.  Zeman said he would name central bankers who support
economic growth and not strive only to meet the inflation and
currency-stability goals mandated by law.  The run-off vote comes as a recession and corruption fuel
support for the political heirs of Havel’s Communist-era
jailers, who endorsed Zeman. Schwarzenberg, a former Havel aide,
wants to bolster U.S. and EU ties and advocates human rights
across the globe.  Pussy Riot  He supported members of Russian punk band Pussy Riot last
summer when they were convicted for a stunt against President
 Vladimir Putin  and said Necas’s view that backing the group may
hurt  Czech exports  to  Russia  was “shocking.”  Schwarzenberg, whose estate includes castles and forests in
the  Czech Republic  and  Austria , defied the polls to finish a
surprise second in the first round. Campaign images created by
artist David Cerny, portraying the prince in a mohawk hairstyle
fashioned after the U.K. punk band and screaming “Karel is Not
Dead,” appealed to voters generations younger than the
candidate.  While the largest Czech betting companies initially made
the prince the favorite, the odds reversed this week. Zeman also
led in the only opinion poll published between the two election
rounds, 54 percent to 46 percent for Schwarzenberg. The survey
by Ppm Factum Research company was taken among a representative
sample of 1,061 Czechs and published Jan. 18.  Schwarzenberg sparked a wave of fresh publicity yesterday
by failing to follow the required procedure while voting. He
cast his ballot without placing it first inside the obligatory
envelope, invalidating his own vote, the public Czech Television
channel reported, citing spokesman Marek Prazak.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  