-- Oklahoma Rebuts U.S. in State’s Challenge to Health-Care Act
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-01-25T23:24:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/oklahoma-rebuts-u-s-in-state-s-challenge-to-health-care-act-1-.html
Oklahoma  opposed a request by the
U.S. that a judge dismiss the state’s lawsuit challenging
President  Barack Obama ’s 2010 health-care reform legislation.  The U.S. District Court in Muskogee, Oklahoma, has the
authority to determine whether the state is “injured” by the
federal government’s disregard for a 2010 amendment to the
state’s constitution barring bar any rule or law that compels a
person, an employer or health-care provider to participate in a
health-care system, Attorney General Scott Pruitt said in a
filing with the court today.  Federal tax rules on the establishment of health-insurance
exchanges to make coverage available for Oklahoma residents
deprive the state of an “important sovereign choice” by
“requiring it to provide federally-approved health insurance to
all full-time employees -- or risk onerous penalties,”
according to the filing.  Pruitt, a Republican, sued in January 2011, about 10 months
after the president signed into law the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act that made the acquisition of basic health
insurance mandatory for almost all Americans. That part of the
law takes effect in 2014.  The U.S. Supreme Court in June upheld most of the federal
health-care law, including the purchase mandate, which it deemed
a valid exercise of Congress’s power to levy taxes.  Last month, the U.S. argued the state lacks standing to sue
the federal government to deprive its residents of the benefits
of the federal law. The Obama administration contended in its
filing that, without a health-insurance exchange, about 380,000
Oklahoma residents would forgo tax credits worth an average of
$5,000 a person and some large employers that don’t offer
qualifying coverage would face tax penalties.  A Justice Department representative didn’t immediately
return a call after regular business hours seeking comment on
today’s filing.  The case is  State of Oklahoma  v. Sebelius, 11-cv-00030,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Oklahoma (Muskogee).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  