-- London’s West End Beats Hong Kong as Costliest Office Space
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-01-25T09:43:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/london-s-west-end-beats-hong-kong-as-most-expensive-office-space.html
London’s West End replaced  Hong Kong 
as the world’s most expensive location to lease new  office space 
per worker after rents in the Chinese city declined, broker DTZ
said in a report today.  Companies spend the equivalent of $23,500 a year on office
space for each employee in the central London neighborhood
compared with $22,190 a year in Hong Kong and about $14,000 a
year in 11th-ranked New York, according to a survey by the
broker, a unit of Sydney-based  UGL Ltd (UGL)  that operates in 52
countries and traces its roots back to 1784.  Costs per employee in Hong Kong slumped 12 percent after
rents fell in the Central area as companies reduced space or
moved to cheaper districts, researcher Karine Woodford said in
the report. Costs fell in all U.S. cities last year as the labor
market remained sluggish and companies used less space for each
worker, the broker said.  London ’s West End includes the districts of Mayfair and St.
James’s, both of which are popular office locations for hedge
funds including Moore Capital Management LLC and GLG Partners
Inc. Brevan Howard Asset Management LLP, Europe’s second-largest
hedge fund, may lease office space in St James’s, a person with
knowledge of the matter said in October.  Prime office vacancy rates in Hong Kong’s Central rose to
4.9 percent at the end of November from 3.6 percent a year
earlier, according to broker Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.  DTZ ranked 126 cities based on the occupancy cost for each
employee including rent, taxes and maintenance costs. The
cheapest was Surabaya in northwestern  Indonesia  at $1,610.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen at 
 rlarsen2@bloomberg.net  