-- Honeywell Sees U.S. Growth Below Estimates, CFO Says
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2013-01-25T18:37:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/honeywell-sees-u-s-growth-below-estimates-cfo-says.html
Honeywell International Inc. (HON) , the
maker of products from thermostats to cockpit controls, predicts
the U.S. will grow at a slower pace this year than economists
estimate as Congress continues to grapple over spending.  Honeywell forecasts the  U.S. economy  will expand 1.7
percent, Chief Financial Officer  David Anderson  said in a
telephone interview today. That’s lower than the 2 percent
average of 83 economists’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The
 Morris Township , New Jersey-based company also sees the euro
region contracting as much as 0.3 percent this year, more than
the predicted 0.1 percent decline.  Chief Executive Officer David Cote -- whose company gets
$37.7 billion in annual sales from customers ranging from  Boeing
Co. (BA)  to chemical producer Dow Chemical Co. -- has warned of
government debt burdens worldwide. Cote, a steering committee
member for the Campaign to Fix the Debt and an appointee to
President  Barack Obama ’s 2010 fiscal commission, has prodded
U.S. lawmakers to resolve a standoff over deficit spending with
a mix of tax increases and cuts.  “Big democracies around the world are still in gridlock
over debt,” Cote said on a conference call today with analysts.
“The U.S. is kicking the debt can down the road and finding
that kick doesn’t quite go as far as it used to.”  The lower house of Congress approved legislation on Jan. 23
to suspend the limit on federal borrowing until the middle of
May. The bill on the so-called debt ceiling now goes to the
Senate. The Congress faces a March deadline for $1.2 trillion of
automatic spending cuts.  China Growth  Honeywell is less pessimistic about  China , where the
company predicts the economy will grow about 8 percent. That’s
in line with the average estimate of 8.1 percent.  China’s
economy  slowed to a 7.8 percent expansion last year from 9.3
percent in 2011 and 14 percent in 2007.  “China has clearly averted a hard landing and today it’s
becoming a slight tailwind,” Anderson said. “We’re seeing
slight improvement in a number of our end markets.”  Honeywell expects its sales growth in China will outpace
the economy as a whole and end 2013 at about 11 percent to 12
percent, Anderson said.  A sluggish global economy that’s expected to grow at about
2.5 percent this year will keep Honeywell’s sales from existing
businesses in check, with an increase of about 1 percent to 3
percent, the executive said. The company’s net income will rise
7 percent to 12 percent this year, helped by increased market
share and cost cuts and improved efficiency, Anderson said.  “We’re going to grow faster than most of the markets we
serve and we have the benefit of a number of operating
disciplines,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  