-- Hong Kong Used Home Prices Rise Most 2 Years, Centaline Says
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2013-01-25T09:34:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/hong-kong-used-home-prices-rise-most-2-years-centaline-says.html
Hong Kong used home prices rose the
most in almost two years, as public reaction to a government
subsidized housing project this month fueled buying sentiment,
according to Centaline Property Agency Ltd.  The Centaline City Leading Index  rose  2.11 percent in the
week ended Jan. 20, Hong Kong’s biggest closely-held broker said
in an e-mailed statement. That was the biggest seven-day gain
since the period ended Feb. 13, 2011, according to its website.  Greenview Villa, a government-backed project in the city’s
northwest Tsing Yi district, drew about 58,300 orders for its
988 units when application closed Jan. 18, Sing Tao Daily
reported today, citing Transport and Housing Secretary Anthony
Cheung. The project is part of Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying’s
plan to increase housing supply, after home prices in the city
doubled in four years.  “When people see reaction like this, of course everyone
would want to jump into the market,” said Wong Leung-sing, an
associate director of research at Centaline. “The plan itself
wasn’t a bad idea but the timing was. If you are trying to cool
sentiment you shouldn’t put this out on the market. It’ll only
create the perception that the market is still hot.”  The index, which measures weekly second-hand home price
movement, normally reflects deals signed three weeks earlier,
said Wong.  Leung has imposed measures such as extra taxes on foreign
homebuyers and tightening mortgage lending since taking over in
July. The former surveyor pledged during his election campaign
last year he would bring down prices that are now the world’s
highest and bridge wealth gap.  Leung’s government will provide land to build 75,000 public
homes in the next five years, and the private sector may sell
67,000 in the next three to four years, he said during the Jan.
16 policy address. The total of 142,000 compares with the
124,000 built in the previous five years, based on figures Leung
provided in his speech.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  