-- Monte Paschi Won’t Seek More Aid to Cover Losses, CEO Says
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2013-01-28T17:16:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/monte-paschi-investors-approve-capital-plan-to-get-state-aid.html
Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA 
won’t seek more aid to cover potential losses from derivatives
that were undisclosed by the bank’s previous management, Chief
Executive Officer Fabrizio Viola told reporters today.  The bank, which has requested a 3.9 billion-euro ($5.2
billion) bailout, isn’t holding talks with potential new
investors in the Siena, Italy-based lender, Viola said at
Milan’s Foreign Press Club.  “I can confirm that the amount of funds we need is 3.9
billion euros,” Viola said, adding that the bank’s board will
complete the bailout request by early February and the Italian
Treasury will conclude the transaction by the end of that month.  Investors in the world’s oldest bank on Jan. 25 approved a
6.5 billion-euro  capital-raising plan , a required step to
receive a second bailout from the Italian government, a week
after  Bloomberg News  revealed the bank used derivatives to mask
losses.  Italy ’s central bank has said that the lender hid
documents from regulators on deals that may prompt the bank to
restate profit.  The Rome-based  Bank of Italy  on Jan. 26 approved the
government’s emergency loans, allowing Italian Prime Minister
 Mario Monti  to push ahead with the bailout before national
elections next month. Under the aid plan, Monte Paschi will sell
securities dubbed “Monti bonds” to the government with a 9
percent coupon that may rise to as much as 15 percent.  Blocking Aid  Italian consumer association Codacons is seeking to block
Monte Paschi’s bailout. The group filed a complaint in a Rome
administrative court against the Cabinet, Economy Ministry,
Italy’s central bank and market regulator Consob, seeking 3.9
billion euros in damages from the Bank of Italy for not
adequately monitoring the bank’s activities, according to an e-
mailed statement today.  Codacons’ request follows criticism about the central
bank’s supervision raised by some politicians and another
consumer group, Adusbef, which last week asked why regulatory
authorities didn’t review Monte Paschi’s use of the derivatives.  “It would have been very hard for the central bank to find
something wrong while reviewing accounts because some documents
were hidden,” Viola said today.  Hidden Documents  Monte Paschi is reviewing three money-losing derivative
deals, dubbed Santorini, Alexandria and Nota Italia, which led
to losses for the bank. The lender discovered in October that
former managers signed a “mandate agreement” with  Nomura
Holdings Inc. (8604)  to cover losses on a mortgage-backed derivative
called Alexandria with new, riskier derivatives.  The hidden document, proving the link between the
unprofitable Alexandria derivative with a new riskier one,
should have led the bank to book a loss of more than 200 million
euros on the original transaction, instead of spreading it over
the 30-year maturity of the new deal.  Viola said today that the bank is unable to find a similar
mandate agreement for the Santorini financing.  Monte Paschi will complete the review of the losses, which
haven’t been quantified yet, in the first half of February, and
they will be included in the bank’s 2012 accounts, Viola said.
“The 2012 results will reflect the real situation of the
bank.”  Banca Antonveneta  Viola said he has seen no evidence of bribery related to
Monte Paschi’s purchase of Banca Antonveneta SpA in 2008,
commenting on press reports of illicit payments linked to the
acquisition. The executive said the bank considered selling
Antonveneta when it needed funds to meet a European Banking
Authority capital gap and isn’t currently considering a sale.  Monte Paschi  shares gained  0.7 percent to 26.15 cents in
Milan, after rising earlier as much as 7.4 percent, giving
Italy’s third-largest bank a market value of 3.05 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net 
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  