-- Monte Paschi Scandal Threatens Frontrunner in Italy Election
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-01-25T16:53:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/monte-paschi-scandal-threatens-frontrunner-in-italian-elections.html
Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena
SpA ’s revelation of more than 700 million euros ($942 million)
in losses from unreported structured-finance deals is roiling
the campaign for next month’s parliamentary elections and
threatens to hurt frontrunner Pier Luigi Bersani.  Bersani’s  Democratic Party , which leads in opinion polls,
must take some responsibility for the turmoil at the nation’s
third-biggest bank, Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said today in an
interview on Radio Anch’io. The Democratic Party, or PD, runs
the local government in Siena, where Monte Paschi is based, and
controls the foundation that owns 38 percent of the company.  The spat between Bersani and Monti may be an opportunity
for former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , whose group is
second in the polls. Monti, who approved a 3.9 billion-euro
bailout for the bank last year, may suffer with voters, while
most of the blame will probably go to Bersani, said Maurizio Pessato, head of polling firm SWG Institute.  “I think the PD will suffer the consequences,” Pessato
said in an interview today. “I think it’s going to create some
problems. We’ll just have to see of what dimensions.”  Bersani leads a coalition of parties with 34.1 percent
support, according to an SWG poll conducted Jan. 22-23. That
compares with 26.6 percent support for Berlusconi’s group of
parties and 12.8 percent for Monti’s coalition.  Monte Paschi shareholders today approved two capital
increases, paving the way for the government loans, a week after
 Bloomberg News  revealed the bank used derivatives to mask
losses. The  Bank of Italy  said Jan. 23 that the bank hid details
of the transactions from the regulator.  PD Influence  “The Democratic Party has a role here, it has always had a
lot of influence on the bank through the foundation,” said
Monti said on Anch’io. “The problem in the case of Monte Paschi
and other cases in  Italy  and in other countries has a lot to do
with the ugly ties between the banks and politics.”  The influence wielded at Monte Paschi by Siena’s city and
provincial governments is greater than that of any other single
local administration at any of Italy’s other major banks. The
biggest shareholder of  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , the largest bank, is non-
Italian. At No. 2  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , the foundations that are
among the company’s five biggest shareholders report to
different local governments across the north of Italy.  Monti said today that Finance Minister  Vittorio Grilli  will
testify in Parliament on the Monte Paschi situation and the
government’s plan to aid the bank. Grilli will appear on Jan.
29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Milan at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 