-- TOP Oil Market News: Crude Heads for Longest Gain Since 2009
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2013-01-25T07:43:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/top-oil-market-news-crude-heads-for-longest-gain-since-2009.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  Oil Heads for Longest Run of Weekly Gains Since 2009 on Economy  Oil headed for a seventh weekly advance in  New York , the
longest run of gains in almost four years, amid signs of global
economic growth and a drop in crude stockpiles at Cushing, the
U.S. storage hub.  Chavez Cancer Freezes Venezuela’s Overseas Oil Funding: Energy  Venezuela’s $100 billion oil industry is seeing the first
drop in funding in five years from some of its closest partners,
as concern mounts President  Hugo Chavez ’s battle with cancer is
creating a political vacuum, people familiar with the matter
said.  Naphtha Cheapest Since 2011 in Europe Lures Asia: Energy Markets  Naphtha buyers in Asia are poised to almost double imports
from Europe this month amid the cheapest supplies since 2011.  Asia’s Fuel Oil Crack Poised for Weekly Decline: Oil Products  Asia’s fuel oil discount to Dubai crude is set for the
biggest weekly decline in four months, signaling increased
losses from making the residual fuel. The gasoil crack is poised
to decline this week.  Oil May Increase as Economic Growth Boosts Demand, Survey Shows  Oil may rise next week on speculation that stronger
economic growth will boost demand, a Bloomberg survey showed.  Egypt ’s EGPC Issues Tender to Buy Gasoline for Delivery in March  Egyptian General Petroleum Corp. issued a tender to
purchase one gasoline cargo for delivery in March, according to
a document obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Taiwan’s CPC Said to Buy at Least Three Angolan Crude Cargoes  CPC Corp., a Taiwan state-run oil company, bought at least
three cargoes of Angolan crude for loading in March, according
to four traders with knowledge of the matter.  Rosneft Said to Offer 200,000 Tons of ESPO Oil for March Loading  OAO Rosneft, Russia’s largest oil producer, issued a tender
to sell two 100,000 metric-ton cargoes of East Siberia-Pacific
Ocean, or ESPO, crude for loading in March, said two people who
participate in the market, asking not to be identified because
they aren’t authorized to speak to the media.  Ethanol Weakens Against Gasoline on Above Average Stockpiles  Ethanol weakened against gasoline for a third day after a
government report showed higher-than- normal stockpiles of the
fuel.  U.S. Energy Department Natural Gas Update for Jan. 23 (Text)  Following is the text of the weekly natural gas update as
released by the U. S. Department of Energy in Washington, D.C.:  Dow Rejects U.S. LNG Export Project It Co-Owns on Fuel Worry (2)  Dow Chemical Co., the largest U.S. chemical maker by
revenue, said it won’t invest in a proposed $6.5 billion natural
gas export project at a Texas terminal it partly owns.  Natural Gas Futures Decline on Smaller-Than-Expected Supply Drop  Natural gas futures declined for a third day in New York
after a government report showed that U.S. stockpiles fell less
than expected last week.  U.S. Oil Supply: Comparison of Weekly API, DOE Figures (Table)  The following table provides a  comparison between the U.S.
Department of Energy’s crude-oil statistics for the week ended
Jan. 18 and the data from the  American Petroleum Institute , an
industry-funded group.  European Gasoil Stockpiles Rise to Four-Month High, PJK Says (1)  Gasoil stockpiles in independent storage rose to a four-
month high in Europe’s Amsterdam- Rotterdam-Antwerp oil-trading
hub, according to PJK International BV.  Gasoil Stockpiles Rise in Europe’s Oil-Trading Hub, PJK Says  Gasoil stockpiles in independent storage rose in Europe’s
Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp oil-trading hub, according to PJK
International BV.  OPEC  OPEC to Cut Shipments as Asian Demand Ebbs, Oil Movements Says  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will
reduce shipments through to early February as late winter demand
fails to materialize in Asia, according to tanker tracker Oil
Movements.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  JX Energy Resumes Mizushima-A Plant Vacuum Unit, Official Says  JX started vacuum distillation unit No. 2 at Mizushima-A
refinery on Jan. 21, a co. official, who asked not to be
identified because of company policy, said today by phone.  Valero Wilmington Said to Shut Alkylation Unit Next Week (1)  Valero Energy Corp. plans to shut the alkylation unit at
the Wilmington oil refinery near Los Angeles next week for
repairs, according to a person familiar with the work.  Los Angeles Gasoline Jumps to Three-Month High on Plant Upsets  Spot gasoline in Los Angeles surged against futures after
Valero Energy Corp. was said to be shutting an alkylation unit
at its Wilmington plant next week and Chevron Corp. and Phillips
66 reported equipment shutdowns.  MORE: BP Carson Refinery Plans to Flare Gases Jan. 27-Feb. 5  BP Plc some equipment from planned maintenance, but fluid
catalytic cracker and alkylation unit remain shut for work.  Los Angeles Gasoline Jumps to Three-Month High on Plant Upsets  Spot gasoline in Los Angeles surged against futures as
Valero Energy Corp. was said to be shutting an alkylation unit
at its Southern California plant next week and Chevron Corp. and
Phillips 66 reported equipment shutdowns.  Tesoro Says Fire Was on Maintenance Boat at Golden Eagle  “Minor fire” extinguished on motor of maintenance boat
stationed at wastewater treatment plant at Golden Eagle refinery
in Northern California, Tina Barbee, spokeswoman for Tesoro
Corp., said by e-mail.  Valero Wilmington Said to Plan Alkylation Unit Shut Next Week  Valero Energy Corp. plans to shut the alkylation unit at
the Wilmington oil refinery near Los Angeles next week for
repairs, according to a person familiar with the work.  Canadian Heavy Oil Gains Amid Speculation of Delays at Kearl  Canadian heavy crude strengthened on the  spot market  on
speculation that Imperial Oil Ltd.’s Kearl oil-sands project
will be delayed until later this year.  Husky Lima Refinery Operating Normally After Power Failure  Husky Energy Inc. flared gases on Jan. 19 because of a
brief  power failure  caused by problems with power company
metering equipment, spokeswoman Kim Guttormson said by e-mail.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  Naphtha Cheapest Since 2011 in Europe Lures Asia: Energy Markets  Naphtha buyers in Asia are poised to almost double imports
from Europe this month amid the cheapest supplies since 2011.  Billionaire Fredriksen Says Tankers to Lead Shipping Recovery  The market for oil and fuel tankers will be the first to
recover from a glut in the shipping industry, reviving over the
next 15 to 20 months as international trade picks up,
billionaire  John Fredriksen  said.  Oil Product Shipping Costs to Japan Are Unchanged  The cost of shipping a gallon of gasoline,  jet fuel  or
other so-called clean petroleum products from the  Middle East  to
Japan was unchanged at 8.63 U.S. cents yesterday, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost is based on a cargo of
55,000 metric tons.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Oil Rises on Improving Economic Data as Brent-WTI Spread Narrows  Oil climbed after reports pointed to accelerating global
growth and as the spread between West Texas Intermediate crude
in the U.S. and London’s Brent narrowed on speculation the
Seaway pipeline will soon resume full shipments.  Andurand Returning After BlueGold to Cut Risks at Hedge Fund (1)  Pierre Andurand , the trader who shut his BlueGold energy
hedge fund after it lost 34 percent in 2011, is seeking to cut
the volatility of returns by more than half when he opens a new
fund next week.  EU Carbon Plunges 40% as Lawmakers Suggest Rejection of Glut Fix  European Union carbon prices plunged a record 40 percent
after a panel in the 27-nation bloc’s parliament recommended
rejection of a strategy to strengthen the world’s biggest cap-
and-trade market.  Rothschild’s Proposed Bumi Chairman King Expects to Win Vote (2)  Wallace King, proposed by  Nathaniel Rothschild  as the new
Bumi Plc chairman, expects to win enough backing from
shareholders next month to oust incumbent Samin Tan as a battle
for control of the Indonesian coal venture rages.  Hawaii Refinery Stop Set to Lure Asia Jet Fuel: Energy Markets  Asian jet fuel shipments to Hawaii are poised to triple as
Tesoro Corp. shuts the islands’ biggest crude-processing plant,
helping lift refining margins from the weakest level in almost
five years.  Westerners Told to Leave Benghazi Due to ‘Imminent’ Threat (1)  The British, German and Dutch governments urged their
citizens to leave the Libyan city of Benghazi citing a threat to
Westerners.  Karoon Climbs Most in 15 Months on Brazil Oil Find: Sydney Mover  Karoon Gas Australia Ltd., the subject of takeover talk
because of its South American oil prospects, surged the most in
15 months in Sydney trading after making a discovery off the
coast of Brazil.  New England   Power Plants  Burning More Oil in Frigid Weather (1)  New England is relying on power plants fueled by oil and
coal as bitter cold weather boosts demand while pipeline
constraints limit natural gas supplies and send prices soaring.  Noble Corp. Falls as Costs Up More Than Expected: Houston Mover  Noble Corp., the offshore drilling contractor building 11
new rigs, fell the most in more than six months after
forecasting costs higher than analysts expected.  CVR Energy Rises to All-Time High on Dividend Plan: Dallas Mover  CVR Energy Inc., the oil refiner and fertilizer maker that
was taken over by billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  last year,
rose to an all-time high after announcing a new quarterly
dividend policy and a special dividend of $5.50- a-share.  OTHER MARKETS  Yen Set for 11th Weekly Loss, Japan Stocks Rise; Samsung Falls  The yen fell, set for the longest weekly losing streak in
more than four decades, after consumer prices declined,
supporting policy makers devaluing the currency. Japanese stocks
rallied while shares of Samsung Electronics Co., the biggest
weighting in the region’s benchmark index, slumped.  Yen Set for 11th Weekly Drop as CPI Adds to BOJ Easing Case  The yen headed for a record stretch of weekly losses
against the dollar as data showing a decline in Japanese
consumer prices added to the case for further monetary stimulus
from the central bank.  Big Mac Index Cooks Abe’s Claim Yen Still Too Strong: Currencies  The increasing number of Japan’s trading partners who say
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s campaign to drive the yen lower has
gone too far are gaining ammunition from measures designed to
assess the relative cost of goods.  Asian Stocks Rise as Japan’s Topix Caps Longest Gain in 40 Years  Asian stocks rose as declines in Japanese consumer prices
added to the case for more monetary stimulus, boosting the Topix
Index to cap its longest weekly winning streak in 40 years.
Shares also gained after U.S. jobless claims fell to a five-year
low.  China Said to Choose Five Foreign Investors for Index Futures  China  selected five foreign institutional investors to
trade stock-index futures in the country, according to an
official from the China Financial Futures Exchange.  Gold Poised for Weekly Loss as Improving Economy Reduces Demand  Gold was poised for a weekly decline after reports from the
U.S. to China signaled improving global growth, curbing demand
for the metal as a haven asset. Platinum was on course for the
best run of weekly gains in almost a year.  Copper Seen Extending Rally With China Accelerating: Commodities  Copper traders are bullish for a third consecutive week as
the fastest expansion in Chinese manufacturing in two years
boosts confidence that the biggest buyer of the metal is leading
a global recovery.  Tough-as-Nails Prosecutor White to Tackle SEC Policy Stalemates  In nominating former U.S. Attorney Mary Jo White to run the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, President  Barack Obama 
said he was sending a signal that the regulator would be tough
on  Wall Street .  Abe Courts Parliament for BOJ Nominees With Eye on Elections (1)  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe takes his plans to pull the
economy out of recession to a divided parliament next week,
seeking to win support for reshaping the  Bank of Japan  in favor
of aggressive monetary easing.  SPORTS  Goldman Sachs Banker Turns College Rugby Coach at Japan’s Keio  Koji Wada, a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. banker in Tokyo, was
appointed head coach of the Keio University rugby team.  Swan Recalls Aussie-England Cricket Feud to Spur Republic Talk  Australian Deputy Prime Minister  Wayne Swan  used the 80th
anniversary of the so-called “bodyline” cricket series against
England to call for renewed debate on his nation’s allegiance to
the British monarch.  QPR Looks to Blackburn Defenders, Mirror Says: Soccer Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable links to the web.  ENERGY PRICES  Last    Chg  %Chg   Exch Contract  ----   ----  ----   ---- --------
WTI Crude ($/Bbl)       95.96  +0.01  +0.0  Nymex    March
Brent Crude ($/Bbl)    113.28  +0.48  +0.4    Ice    March
Gasoil ($/Ton)         968.25  +5.50  +0.6    Ice    March
Gasoline (c/Gal)       286.29  +2.91  +1.0  Nymex     Feb.
Natural gas ($/MMBtu)    3.45  +0.01  +0.2  Nymex     Feb.
Dated Brent ($/Bbl)    114.75  +0.64  +0.6    OTC  21 Days
Heating Oil            308.64  +0.83  +0.3  Nymex     Feb.
Other markets:  Last  %Chg  ----- -----
Dollar Index            79.96  +0.1
Gold ($/Oz)          1,669.90  -1.0
MSCI World Index     1,395.83    --
Prices as of 11 p.m. GMT  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  