-- Morgan Stanley Adviser Dowd Charged With Pharmasset Tips
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-01-25T22:14:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/morgan-stanley-adviser-dowd-charged-with-pharmasset-tips.html
Former Morgan Stanley brokerage
adviser Kevin L. Dowd was charged with insider trading for
tipping a friend ahead of  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) ’s $11 billion
acquisition of Pharmasset Inc., U.S. prosecutors said.  Dowd, 37, who worked at a brokerage in Aventura,  Florida ,
learned that a Pharmasset director told Dowd’s superiors about
the deal before it was announced on Nov. 21, 2011, according to
a Federal Bureau of Investigation arrest complaint filed today.  Dowd was told not to act on the information yet tipped a
childhood friend, identified as J.F., who illicitly made
$163,621 on Pharmasset shares, the FBI said. J.F. tipped another
friend who made $544,706 on Pharmasset options, the FBI said. In
July 2012, agents confronted Dowd, who said he told J.F. to buy
stock, while denying he had inside information, the FBI said.  “Dowd admitted that he told J.F., but falsely stated that
he had never received information that Pharmasset was going to
be acquired by another pharmaceutical company,” Paul Fishman,
the U.S. attorney in New Jersey, said in a statement.  The number of people sued by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission or charged with insider trading by the
Justice Department more than doubled since 2008, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. There were 56 in 2008, 96 in 2009,
67 in 2010, 104 in 2011 and 125 last year. Of those, 22 percent
were linked to trades involving health-care stocks.  Wooden Dock  In exchange for the tip, J.F. gave Dowd a wooden dock for
his Jet Skis and a cashier’s check for $35,000, according to the
FBI. Dowd used the money to buy an in-ground pool at his Boca
Raton home, according to the FBI.  Dowd, who was arrested at his home today, is charged with
conspiracy to commit securities fraud and faces as long as five
years in prison if convicted.  He appeared today in federal court in West Palm Beach,
Florida. A judge released Dowd on a $100,000 bond. He is
scheduled to appear in federal court in  Newark , New Jersey, on
Feb. 1.  Peter Willis, a lawyer for Dowd, didn’t immediately return
a call seeking comment on the charges.  The SEC also sued Dowd today in federal court in Newark.  “As an industry professional, Dowd surely knew what he was
doing was wrong, but he incorrectly thought that his scheme was
clever enough to avoid detection by investigators,” Daniel M. Hawke, chief of the SEC’s Market Abuse Unit, said in a
statement.  Morgan Stanley’s wealth management unit has cooperated with
the SEC and Justice Department, Christine Jockle, a spokeswoman
for the New York-based bank, said in an e-mail.  ‘Clear Violation’  “Mr. Dowd was in clear violation of company policy and was
terminated on Dec. 12, 2012, for behavior that the firm does not
tolerate,” Jockle said.  At least six weeks before the acquisition by Gilead, the
Pharmasset director confidentially told a  Morgan Stanley (MS)  manager
that his company “was engaged in an auction process involving a
sale of the company, had attracted the interest of several large
pharmaceutical companies, and was going to be sold,” according
to the SEC.  The Pharmasset director served on the Princeton, New
Jersey-based company’s board from August 2000 until January 2012
and was the largest customer of the brokerage’s Aventura branch,
according to the FBI.  Dowd’s managers told him that he was “prohibited from
recommending or trading Pharmasset securities because the office
had come into possession of material nonpublic information”
about the sale, the SEC said. He also was told not to trade
Pharmasset securities in his personal account.  Dowd began work at Morgan Stanley in June 2009, according
to the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. He worked from
August 2005 to June 2009 at  Citigroup Inc. (C) , according to Finra
records.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Dowd, 13-mj-6515, U.S.
District Court, District of New Jersey (Newark). The SEC case is
Securities and Exchange Commission v. Dowd, U.S. District Court,
District of New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey,
 at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  