-- Toronto Mayor Ford Stays in Office After Winning Appeal
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-01-25T17:53:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/toronto-mayor-ford-stays-in-office-after-winning-appeal.html
Toronto Mayor Rob Ford can keep his
job after winning an appeal of a court ruling that had found him
in conflict of interest over donations collected for his high
school football charity.  A divisional court today struck down a Nov. 26 verdict by
Ontario Superior Court Justice Charles Hackland that Ford was in
conflict and must vacate his seat after he voted on a motion
that ordered him to repay donations he had solicited for the
charity.  The mayor of  Canada ’s largest city had been accused by
citizen Paul Magder of breaking the Municipal Conflict of
Interest Act in 2011. Lawyer Clayton Ruby took the case for
Magder, which sought to remove Ford, 43, from City Council and
prevent him from running in the next election.  “The job is not finished yet,” Ford said at a press
conference at city hall.  According to an investigation by Janet Leiper, the City of
Toronto’s Integrity Commissioner, when Ford was councilor for
Etobicoke North in 2010 he solicited C$3,150 ($3,120) in
donations from lobbyists for his private charity, the Rob Ford
Football Foundation, by using the City of Toronto logo, his
status as a city councilor, and city resources while lobbying.  In August 2010 council ordered Ford to repay the donations
made to his foundation. Ford refused, ignoring multiple written
requests from the commissioner’s office and later voted on a
council motion relieving himself of the responsibility to repay
the donations, the November ruling said.  Gravy Train  “We conclude that the application judge erred in finding
that Mr. Ford contravened the Municipal Conflict of Interest
Act,” the ruling from the three-member panel of the court said.
“Accordingly, we would allow the appeal.”  The initial report that was tabled by the integrity
commissioner and approved by city council was null because of
the “financial nature” it imposed, the verdict said. The
decision went beyond the city’s code of conduct “because it
required Mr. Ford to reimburse funds which he never received
personally.”  “Did Mr. Ford have a pecuniary interest in that matter? In
our view, he did not,” the ruling said.  Ruby will ask the  Supreme Court  of Canada for leave to
appeal to the decision.  “The Court has let Rob Ford off on a technicality,” he
said in a statement.  Ford, who campaigned for mayor with the slogan “Stop the
Gravy Train” has clashed with a council that often overruled
him. While getting elected in October 2010 with 47 percent of
the vote on a vow to expand the city’s subway system, council
endorsed a plan for surface rail instead. He has faced
opposition on council in his drive to cut costs by contracting
out services such as garbage collection.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  