-- Osborne Says ‘No Magic Wand’ to Fix Britain’s Economy
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-01-25T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/osborne-says-no-magic-wand-to-fix-britain-s-economy.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said the problems in the British economy are deeply
entrenched and difficult to resolve as the risk of an
unprecedented triple-dip recession looms.  Britain’s  economy shrank 0.3 percent  in the fourth quarter,
more than economists forecast, as service-sector output
stagnated and government spending and manufacturing contracted.
Osborne said it will take “hard work and perseverance” to
bring a lasting recovery.  “These problems were many years in the making and there’s
no magic solution,” Osborne told broadcasters today at the
 World Economic Forum  in Davos,  Switzerland . “The British people
understand there’s no overnight solution.”  Osborne is facing calls from the  International Monetary
Fund  to ease the pace of his fiscal consolidation plans and
warnings from ratings companies that U.K. government bonds may
lose their top-grade status as the economy struggles to lift
itself out of the financial crisis that began five years ago.  Household debt is equivalent to about 1 1/2 times
disposable income, and two in every five mortgage borrowers pay
only the interest on their home loans. Consumers can no longer
rely on easy bank credit and will remain squeezed for years.  “We’re making progress,” Osborne said. “It’s a very
difficult situation and I think people understand there’s no
magic wand.”  Pound Declines  The U.K. has recovered only half of the economic output
lost during the 2008-2009 recession as inflation outpaces
incomes,  government spending  cuts bite and the euro-region debt
crisis saps demand in the biggest market for British goods.
Concern about the outlook has pushed the pound to its lowest
level against the dollar for five months and a 13-month low
against the euro.  While the U.S., German and Canadian economies are back
above their pre-recession levels, U.K. gross domestic product
was 3.3 percent below in the fourth quarter -- only Italy is
further behind among Group of Seven nations. It means Britain
remains mired in its longest peacetime slump of any since 1920,
according to the National Institute of Economic and Social
Research.  The IMF cut its U.K. growth forecasts this week and Chief
Economist  Olivier Blanchard  said in comments broadcast yesterday
that a “slower fiscal consolidation may be appropriate.”  The opposition  Labour Party  restated its call for looser
fiscal policy to cushion households from the crisis and called
on Osborne to introduce a jobs guarantee for the long-term
unemployed, a temporary cut in sales taxes and more spending on
infrastructure.  “This government’s failing plan has now seen our economy
stagnate for over two years and borrowing is now rising as a
result,” said  Ed Balls , who speaks for Labour against Osborne
in Parliament.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in Davos, Switzerland, at  skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  