-- Moscow Tower Catches Fire in Business Hub, Workers Evacuated
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-01-25T12:37:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/moscow-high-rise-catches-fire-in-business-hub-workers-evacuated.html
A  fire  broke out on the top floors
of an unfinished skyscraper in the Moscow City financial
district, the second blaze to strike the Russian capital’s
business hub in less than a year.  The fire started on the 22nd and 23rd floors of the high-
rise, forcing an evacuation of construction workers, an official
at the Emergency Ministry said by phone, declining to be
identified in line with ministry policy. One worker felt
intoxicated by smoke and sought medical help, state-run RIA
Novosti reported.  Andrey Lukyanov, president of City, the management company
that oversees the construction of the business district, said a
fan heater probably caused the fire, RIA said. The blaze, which
broke out over an area of 60 square meters, was extinguished at
12:35 p.m., with about 220 workers evacuated, according to the
Emergency Ministry’s Moscow  branch . The Oko tower belongs to
real estate developer Capital Group, controlled by Vladislav Doronin, partner of supermodel Naomi Campbell.  The emerging business district, located west of central
Moscow, is part of a government initiative to turn the capital
into an international financial center. Mercury City, a tower
being built in the area by Russian billionaire Igor Kesaev,
overtook the Shard in London as Europe’s tallest skyscraper last
November. Two fire-fighting helicopters were deployed last April
to help extinguish a fire on the 66th and 67th floors of the
nearby Federation Tower skyscraper.  VTB, RenCap  The Moscow City development is home to the headquarters of
Russia’s second-biggest lender VTB Group and Renaissance
Capital, the investment bank controlled by billionaire Mikhail Prokhorov. The area also houses the local offices of
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , KPMG LLP,  General
Electric Co. (GE) ,  EON SE (EOAN) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Alcoa Inc. (AA)   “I don’t see smoke anymore -- there was a lot of smoke
earlier,” Dmitry Klimov, an eyewitness who works at VTB Capital
in a tower overlooking the skyscraper on fire, said by phone
from Moscow. “The fire seems to have been extinguished. I see
many cars next to the tower.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  