-- Oshkosh Shares Rise 19% as Quarterly Profit Beats Estimates
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 2013-01-25T22:10:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/oshkosh-shares-rise-as-profit-on-vehicle-sales-beats-estimates.html
Oshkosh Corp. (OSK) , the U.S. military’s
biggest supplier of heavy-duty trucks, rose the most in more
than three years after reporting first-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates.  Shares of the company  gained  19 percent to $41.08 in New
York, the biggest one-day increase since Aug. 27, 2009. They are
up 39 percent this year.  The Oshkosh, Wisconsin-based company today said adjusted
profit in the first quarter ended Dec. 31 was 60 cents a share
on increased sales of construction equipment, fire trucks and
emergency vehicles. The average estimate of 11 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg was 31 cents a share. Sales fell 6 percent to $1.76
billion.  “Everything seems to be going their way because of
construction picking up,” Walter Liptak, an analyst at
Barrington Research Associates Inc. in  Chicago , said in a
telephone interview.  The company’s strategy to improve profit “is paying off
more than investors thought and that’s to management’s credit,”
Liptak said. He has a buy rating on the company.  Billionaire activist investor  Carl Icahn  last month dropped
his bid to buy the truckmaker after failing to receive enough
shareholder support. Icahn, 76, was Oshkosh’s largest
shareholder. He has since decreased his  stake  in the company to
4.7 percent from 9.5 percent.  ‘Strong’ Results  In the quarter, Oshkosh boosted non-defense sales from the
year-ago period. Defense revenue fell 21 percent to $829 million
due to an expected decline in military truck sales, the company
said.  “We started the year strong with results that exceeded our
expectations,” Oshkosh Chief Executive Officer Charles Szews
said in a statement.  The company forecasts 2013 revenue at $7.4 billion to $7.7
billion. It plans to buy back about $175 million of shares over
the next nine to 15 months.  “There is increasing evidence housing is poised for a nice
recovery,” driving demand for the company’s aerial work
platforms and cement mixers, Jamie Cook, an analyst at Credit
Suisse in  New York , said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  