-- Hostess Gets Court Approval For Feb. 28 Auction
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2013-01-25T21:54:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/hostess-receives-court-approval-to-hold-feb-28-asset-auction.html
Hostess Brands Inc., the bankrupt
maker of Twinkies snack cakes and Wonder Bread, won permission
to sell the majority of its bread brand assets, including its
Beefsteak brand, at a Feb. 28 auction.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Robert Drain approved bidding
procedures at a hearing today in  White Plains ,  New York . Drain
also approved a 3 percent or $11.7 million breakup fee  Flowers
Foods Inc. (FLO)  will get if it isn’t the winner. A March 5 hearing is
scheduled to authorize the sale to the highest, or otherwise
best bidder as determined by the court.  Flowers is offering to buy Wonder, Butternut, Home Pride,
Merita and Nature’s Pride brands, 20 bread plants, 38 depots and
other assets for $360 million, which may be decreased to
$355 million if certain license rights aren’t included in the
sale. Flowers also agreed to purchase the Beefsteak bread brand
for $30 million.  Prior to the hearing, Hostess and Flowers agreed to reduce
the proposed 3.5 percent or $13.65 million breakup fee, thereby
resolving objections made by creditors that the fee was too high
in return for agreements by Flowers to make the opening bids.  Flowers Foods, established in 1919, produces and markets
packaged bakery foods for its retail and food-service customers.
The company’s top brands are Nature’s Own and Tastykake.  Union Standoff  A standoff with striking union workers triggered
liquidation auctions of Hostess’s brands, recipes, plants and
other assets. The Bakery Confectionery Tobacco Workers and Grain
Millers International Union went on strike Nov. 9 after Drain
imposed contract concessions opposed by more than 90 percent of
the union’s members. The union represents more than 5,000
Hostess workers.  “Today’s hearing on the stalking horse auction procedures
for key bread assets sets the ground rules for a competitive
bidding process,” BCTGM International Union President David
Durkee said today in an e-mailed statement.  The company hopes to file a “stalking-horse” agreement
for the  Drakes  brand next week, a lawyer for the bakery company
said. A stalking horse is the initial bidder whose offer starts-
off the auction.  Hostess emerged from an earlier bankruptcy in 2009 under
the control of buyout firm Ripplewood Holdings LLC and lenders.
The baker, previously known as Interstate Bakeries Corp.,
changed its name to Hostess Brands in October of that year.
Hostess sought  bankruptcy protection  again in January 2012.  Hostess, based in Irving,  Texas , listed assets of
$982 million and debt of $1.43 billion, after years of declining
sales as consumers switched to healthier foods, and labor and
supply costs rose.  Keith Hancock, a spokesman for Flowers, didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment on the approval.  The case is In re Hostess Brands Inc., 12-22052,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (White Plains).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   dmccarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  