-- Pentagon’s 46,000 Temporary Workers May Lose Their Jobs
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-01-25T19:49:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/pentagon-s-46-000-temporary-workers-may-face-immediate-job-cuts.html
The Pentagon has given managers
authority to start firing some of its 46,000 temporary workers
now in anticipation of across-the-board spending cuts set to
take effect in March according to Deputy Defense Secretary
Ashton Carter.  By mid-February, the Defense Department is also likely to
begin notifying its 800,000 civilian employees that they face
mandatory unpaid leave one day a week starting in April unless
Congress and President  Barack Obama  agree on a way to avert the
spending cuts aimed at reducing the federal deficit, Carter told
reporters in a briefing at the Pentagon today.  “There will be 800,000 people subject to furlough all over
the country who will not be getting a fifth of their paycheck”
if the cuts take effect, he said.  Carter’s briefing was the latest in the Pentagon’s
continuing campaign to prod Congress for action to block the
spending cuts, which would trim $45 billion from defense
programs in the current fiscal year that ends Sept. 30.  The mandatory leaves may run through the fiscal year and
would save as much as $5 billion, Carter said. “It’s unfair and
unreasonable,” he said.  The notices are required to be sent about 45 days before
mandatory leave takes effect, Carter said. Almost 86 percent of
those affected are employed outside the Washington area, he
said. Military personnel are exempt from the budget reductions
known as sequestration.  Hurting Contractors  Sequestration also would hurt defense companies, he said.  “It’s going to affect their business, affect their
financial standing,” Carter said. “It’s going to affect their
stock market positions. It’s going to affect their employees.”  “I hope the Congress understands it’s going to affect each
and every state and district,” he said.  The military services have been given a Feb. 8 deadline to
outline specific steps they will take if sequestration occurs,
Carter said. The across-the-board cuts would be in addition to a
$10 billion decrease for operations and maintenance required by
stopgap spending legislation that provides Pentagon funding
through March 27.  Carter said that if the temporary funding legislation is
extended and sequestration takes effect as well the military
will face a “pervasive crisis” in readiness.  Army Readiness  Two-thirds of the Army’s active-duty combat brigades will
be at reduced readiness, he said. The service has directed a 30
percent reduction in base operations spending compared with
fiscal 2012, he said.  The Navy is planning to defer maintenance and repairs on 30
vessels later this year, he said, and the Air Force will do so
for 250 aircraft.  Carter said the Pentagon hopes to “protect the integrity”
of the $4.9 billion fixed-price contract for  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s  KC-46
tanker.  “We are working to make it the case that sequestration
doesn’t force us to abandon that acquisition approach, but we
are not sure we are going to be able to do that,” Carter said.  Weapons and research development programs face about a 9
percent across-the-board reduction under sequestration. Carter
said it’s unlikely contracts already funded would be canceled
because the automatic cuts don’t apply to “obligated funds.”  “You have 9 percent of your money gone and you have to
work around that,” he said. “But there are examples where 9
percent might make a critical difference.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  