-- Philippine Three-Year Bonds Rally as Special Account Rates Cut
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2013-01-25T05:38:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/philippine-three-year-bonds-rally-as-special-account-rates-cut.html
Philippine three-year bonds rose,
pushing the yield to a one-year low, after the central bank cut
rates on the so-called special-deposit accounts and predicted an
upgrade in the sovereign debt rating. The peso fell.  Demand rose for the relatively high yields on  government
securities  after Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas reduced rates on
almost 1.7 trillion pesos ($42 billion) lodged in the  accounts 
to 3 percent even as it maintained the benchmark overnight
borrowing rate at a record low 3.5 percent. The move was meant
to lower the monetary authority’s costs, Governor Amando
Tetangco told Bloomberg Television today. The nation will
probably win a credit upgrade in the first half, he said.  “Bidders scampered to lock in yields as BSP lowered its
SDA rate,” said Bunny Bernardo-Recto, vice president at
Chinatrust  Philippines  Commercial Bank Corp. in  Manila . “Much
value is seen in the medium to longer end of the curve from the
BSP move, coupled with expectations of benign inflation and a
credit-rating upgrade.”  The yield on the 7 percent bond due January 2016 fell 29
basis points, or 0.29 percentage point, to 3.47 percent, the
lowest level since Jan. 5, 2012, according to midday fixing
prices at Philippine Dealing & Exchange Corp. The rate fell the
most since June 2012.  The peso fell 0.2 percent to 40.695 per dollar at the noon
trading break in Manila, set for its first weekly decline in
more than a month, according to Tullett Prebon Plc prices. It
climbed to 40.55 on Jan. 14, the strongest since March 2008.
One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in the
 exchange rate  used to price options, held at 4 percent.  “After getting upgrade after upgrade, we are on the cusp
of investment-grade status,” President  Benigno Aquino  said in a
speech in Davos yesterday, the copy of which was posted on the
government website.  Standard & Poor’s  ranks the Philippines at
BB+, the highest non-investment grade. The rating was last
raised by a level in July.  The central bank’s special-deposit accounts previously paid
3.53 percent for a week, 3.59 percent for two weeks and 3.66
percent for a month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  