-- Pimco Mortgage Head Scott Simon to Retire From Bond-Fund Manager
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-01-25T23:21:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/pimco-mortgage-head-scott-simon-to-retire-from-bond-fund-manager.html
Scott Simon , a managing director at
Pacific Investment Management Co. who heads mortgage- and asset-
backed securities investing, plans to retire from the manager of
the world’s largest bond fund.  Simon, 52, said in a telephone interview yesterday he would
leave Pimco at the end of May after 13 years with the Newport
Beach, California-based firm. Simon said he’s leaving the
industry to focus on “my life and my wife.”  He is “one of the best” in the business, said Scott Buchta head of fixed-income strategy at the Brean Capital LLC
brokerage. “His keep-it-simple approach served him well over
the years.”  Mortgage debt is the largest holding of Pimco’s $285
billion  Total Return Fund (PTTRX) , after the firm last year repeated a
successful bet from 2008 that the  Federal Reserve  would buy
government-backed home-loan securities to boost the economy. The
fund, managed by  Bill Gross , was 42 percent invested in
mortgages last month, according to information posed on its
website. It returned 9.48 percent over the past year to beat 93
percent of competitors, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Before Pimco, Simon was at Bear Stearns Cos., where he was
co-head of pass-through mortgage bond trading.  Michael Cudzil, who joined Pimco from Nomura Securities
International last year, will replace Simon as the co-manager of
two mortgage-related funds, the Pimco GNMA Fund and Pimco
Mortgage-Backed Securities Fund, according to a regulatory
filing by the firm. Cudzil will run the funds along with Daniel Hyman, who is currently listed as a co-manager of the funds on
Pimco’s website.  Dan Tarman, a spokesman, didn’t return an e-mail seeking
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  