-- Swiss Police Probe Mail-Box Blast at Home of Glencore Chief
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-01-25T17:25:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/police-investigating-attack-on-glencore-ceo-glasenberg-s-home.html
Swiss police are investigating an
attack at the house of Ivan Glasenberg, the billionaire chief
executive officer of  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) , in which the
property’s mail box was destroyed by an explosion.  Glencore “can confirm that an incident took place on the
property of Ivan Glasenberg,” the Baar, Switzerland-based
company said today in an e-mailed statement. Glasenberg is in
Davos at the  World Economic Forum . “No one was injured. The
police have been informed and are investigating the situation.”  Police are also looking into a separate incident at a
Credit Suisse Group AG branch in Zurich, Marco Bisa, a police
spokesman in the city, said by phone today. A forensics unit is
assessing the substance that caused damage to the bank’s
property running “into several thousand francs,” he said. A
window was shattered at the rear of the branch, a spokeswoman
for Credit Suisse in Zurich said.  Police are investigating whether the incidents are
connected, Bisa said. Glasenberg lives in Rueschlikon, a town on
Lake Zurich, about 13 miles (21 kilometers) from Glencore’s Baar
headquarters.  The mail box at Glasenberg’s home was blown up yesterday by
an unknown group, according to Swiss newspaper  20Minuten . The
explosion was linked to the damage to at the Credit Suisse
branch, the newspaper said.  Glasenberg, 56, has been CEO of Glencore, the world’s
largest commodities trader, since 2002, and his 15.5 percent
stake in the group is worth about $6.8 billion. He’s in the
final stages of completing a $37 billion takeover of Zug,
Switzerland-based  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  to create the world’s fourth-
largest mining company.  Glencore gained 1 percent to close at 392.6 pence in London
trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  