-- Priebus Re-Elected Chairman as Republicans Try to Rebuild
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-01-25T20:38:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/priebus-re-elected-republican-chairman-as-party-tries-to-rebuild.html
Republican National Committee 
Chairman Reince Priebus was re-elected to a second, two-year
term today as his party works to rebrand and rebuild itself
following losses in November’s election.  Priebus, 40, won his new stint on a standing vote at a
party gathering in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , with only two
members opposing him as he overcame divisions in the party.  After a 2012 campaign where Republicans failed to defeat
President  Barack Obama  and lost House and Senate seats, Priebus
and his fellow Republicans are trying to reshape the party and
its message in a way to make it more competitive.  “We must compete in every state and every region, building
relationships with communities we haven’t before,” Priebus said
in remarks after his unopposed re-election. “We must be a party
concerned about every American and every neighborhood.”  The party chairman also called for a more continuous
political presence as he acknowledged the superior campaign
infrastructure enjoyed by Obama last year.  “As a party, we must recognize that we live in an era of
permanent politics,” he said. “Our opponent benefited from a
multi-year head start” in the 2012 campaign.  More Help  Speaking to reporters later, Priebus said he expects that
will be accomplished through “a lot of volunteers and a lot
more paid help.”  Asked about proposals being pushed by Republicans in some
states, including  Virginia , to award presidential electoral
votes by congressional district instead of winner-take-all,
Priebus continued to express support for the idea.  “It’s something that a lot of states are looking at, and
in some cases I think they should look at it,” he said. “It is
a state issue, but personally I’m pretty intrigued by it.”  Priebus also responded to a question about a remark made
last night at the gathering by Louisiana Governor Bobby Jindal,
a potential 2016 presidential candidate, who said Republicans
need to “stop being the stupid party,” and that some of its
candidates “damaged the brand” in 2012 “with offensive and
bizarre comments.”  “Candidates say things that are stupid, biologically
dumb,” Priebus said. “Just because you are the quarterback
doesn’t mean that you are calling all the plays.”  He then added, “We want to build a massive party that’s
exciting, that smiles, has a good message across America and
that’s what you’re going to see.”  Demographic Shortfall  In his second term, Priebus, a former Wisconsin party
chairman, will have to address the demographic and technological
shortfalls with Democrats spotlighted in the Nov. 6 election.  Exit polls of voters showed Obama dominated his Republican
challenger, former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , among
single women, Hispanics, blacks and younger voters. The
president carried eight of nine states both camps viewed as the
most competitive, on his way to winning 332 electoral votes to
Romney’s 206. Republicans have also observed that Obama’s
campaign used superior technological tools for fundraising
online and getting their voters to the polls.  Among other challenges for Republicans, polls show only
about a third of Americans hold a favorable view of the party,
angry Tea Party movement leaders have threatened retribution for
Republican congressional support of a tax increase passed this
month, and activists who thought they would beat a vulnerable
president are demoralized.  Red States  As part of his speech, Priebus displayed a U.S. map with
its states mostly covered in red -- the color designated for a
Republican victory -- to show how  George H.W. Bush  dominated the
1988 election in winning the presidency.  “It’s time to stop looking at elections through the lenses
of battleground states,” he said. “Being a blue state is not a
permanent diagnosis.”  States that Bush carried in the 1988 election included
California and  Pennsylvania , which have gone Democratic in every
presidential election since then.  In taking the RNC helm in January 2011, Priebus defeated
then-chairman  Michael Steele , who faced criticism for verbal
gaffes and his management of the party apparatus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Charlotte, North Carolina, at   jmccormick16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  