-- Rand Rebounds on Technical Signal Drop to 4-Year Low Overdone
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2013-01-25T14:51:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/rand-rebounds-on-technical-signal-as-euro-gains-against-dollar.html
The rand posted its biggest gain in
a month, paring a fourth straight weekly decline, as investors
bet the currency’s drop to a four-year low was overdone and as
the euro rose to an 11-month high.  The rand strengthened as much as 0.8 percent to 8.9883 a
dollar, the biggest gain since Dec. 27, and was trading at
9.0047 at 4 p.m. in Johannesburg. It has weakened 1.4 percent
this week. Yields on benchmark 10.5 percent bonds due December
2026 declined three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to
7.36 percent, after climbing 15 basis points over the four
previous sessions.  The rand has slumped almost 6 percent this year, the worst-
performer of 25 emerging-market currencies monitored by
Bloomberg, as accelerating inflation added to concern about
slowing growth amid labor protests and civil unrest in  Africa ’s
biggest economy. Technical indicators suggest the decline has
gone too far, according to Ion de Vleeschauwer, the
Johannesburg-based chief dealer at Bidvest Bank Ltd.  “The rand is a bit oversold,” De Vleeschauwer said by
phone today. It is also benefiting from the euro’s gains against
the dollar, he said. “You can expect a bit of a correction.”  The euro gained for a second day, advancing 0.3 percent to
1.3410 against the dollar, the strongest since Feb. 29. The
European Union is  South Africa ’s biggest regional trading
partner, buying 22 percent of its exports, according to
government data. The rand often moves in tandem with the euro,
with a statistical correlation of 0.6 over the past year. A
value of 1 would mean they moved in lock step.  Resume Fall  The rand’s relative strength index against the dollar was
at 25.5 yesterday, below the 30 level that signals the currency
is oversold.  A stochastic oscillator for the rand versus the dollar was
also below the 30 threshold that signals the currency may have
depreciated too quickly and is poised for a rebound. The
measure, which tracks the price of a security relative to its
highs and lows during a particular period, has been below 30
since Jan. 15.  The rand may resume it fall in coming weeks as outflows
from the nation’s  bond market  weigh on the currency, said  John Cairns , a currency strategist at Rand Merchant Bank in
Johannesburg. Foreign investors sold a net 420 million rand ($47
million) of South African bonds yesterday, bringing net outflows
in the past two weeks to 2.9 billion rand, according to data
from JSE Ltd., which operates the bond and equity markets.  South Africa needs foreign-investment inflows of about 17
billion rand a month to finance its current account deficit,
according to Rand Merchant Bank, which registered 6.4 percent of
gross domestic product in the third quarter.  “Foreigners continue to dribble out of the local bond
market,” Cairns said in a note e-mailed to clients today.  The rand’s three-month implied volatility against the
dollar has climbed 65 basis points in the past two weeks to
13.15 percent, indicating that options traders see bigger swings
in the currency in coming weeks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  