-- Rate-Rigging Claims Spur Norway Plea to Restore Bank Trust
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2013-01-25T11:32:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/rate-rigging-claims-spur-norway-plea-to-restore-bank-trust-2-.html
E-mails from international bankers
alleging  Norway ’s interbank offered rate was rigged are being
taken “seriously” by the government, which is calling on banks
to ensure the industry restores trust in the rate.  “These have been rumors that have been put forward and any
rumors must be taken seriously,” Finance Minister Sigbjoern Johnsen said in an interview in Oslo. “It’s up to the banks,
and those who organize Nibor on the banks’ side, to see to it
that there is full confidence in this very important rate.”  The central bank last week released e-mails sent by bankers
outside Norway claiming that Nibor was being manipulated
locally. The central bank document revealed complaints from
traders around the world going as far back as 2010. Nibor is
used as a benchmark for about 843 billion kroner ($153 billion)
in bonds, according to trustee Norsk Tillitsmann. The rate was
linked to as much as 5.8 trillion kroner in derivatives in April
2010, central bank documents show.  The revelations have added urgency to a probe that started
in December and that was requested by the Finance Ministry.
Interbank rates have come under scrutiny worldwide after
Barclays Plc was fined a record 290 million pounds ($468
million) last year for attempting to rig the  London  interbank
offered rate and the European Interbank rate. At least 12 banks
including Deutsche Bank AG are being probed for manipulation.  In Company  “This isn’t only a Norwegian work, this is done in  Sweden ,
Denmark,  England  and what has happened to the Libor in London is
part of the story,” Johnsen said in a Jan. 23 interview.  Deutsche Bank in 2011 fired Christian Bittar, one of the
firm’s best-paid traders, claiming he colluded with a Barclays
trader to manipulate rates and boost the value of his trades in
2006 and 2007, according to three the people with knowledge of
the move. The people requested anonymity because they weren’t
authorized to speak publicly.  Norway’s finance minister last month asked the Financial
Supervisory Authority and the central bank to check whether
Nibor accurately reflects unsecured loan rates between banks and
whether fixings are sufficiently robust. The findings of the
probe will be presented by the end of March.  ‘Market Abuse’  In the correspondence released last week, a June 2010 e-
mail by a banker, whose name was blacked out, said Nibor fixings
“seem to bear no resemblance to market realities,” adding he
suspected “fixings that resembled market abuse.”  Nibor, which is used as a benchmark for mortgage rates,
corporate bond yields and derivative contracts, is calculated as
an average of rates published by a panel of banks for various
maturities, excluding low and high quotes, according to Finance
Norway, which represents banks in the country. The panel is made
up of  DNB ASA (DNB) ,  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) ,  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) , Nordea
Bank Norge ASA,  SEB AB (SEBA)  and  Swedbank AB. (SWEDA)   “This is a very important rate,” Johnsen said. “There
should be no question about the confidence in this rate.”  Finance Norway, which represents about 200 banks operating
in the country, said it has no reason to believe there was any
manipulation of Nibor.  “It would be wise to look closer into this so we can be
sure that nobody has been misleading anyone in any respect,”
Paal Ringholm, head of credit research at Swedbank First
Securities, said in a reply to e-mailed questions on Jan. 18.  Since there are very few loans given between banks that
extend beyond a few days, longer maturity Nibor rates are based
on U.S. dollar rates and on the term premium for the dollar and
krone, according to the central bank. The currency aspect has
made Nibor more volatile, the bank said.  In Scandinavia,  Denmark  has also conducted a probe of the
Copenhagen interbank offered rate amid speculation it was
manipulated during the financial crisis, while Sweden has
reviewed its equivalent rate, called Stibor.  “It is very important to come up with the best possible,
forward-looking rules and regulations and this is part of an
international trend,” Johnsen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 Jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Oslo at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  