-- Reclam Imperils Market as Debt Falling Due: South Africa Credit
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2013-01-25T14:22:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/reclam-imperils-market-as-debt-falling-due-south-africa-credit.html
New Reclamation Group (Pty) Ltd.,
 South Africa ’s lowest-rated company by  Standard & Poor’s , is
jeopardizing investor sentiment toward the nation’s bond market
on concern it’s struggling to repay debt maturing next week.  Reclam, as the Johannesburg-based company is known, has to
repay 149.5 million euros ($199 million) of debt on Feb. 1,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on the company’s
notes, rated default by S&P, surged to a record 3,058 percent by
4:20 p.m. in Johannesburg from 35 percent a year earlier. South
Africa’s euro debt due May 16 fell 61 basis points to 0.94
percent today, within 14 basis points of a record low reached
Jan. 4.  Reclam, which exports scrap metal and has a diamond-mining
venture in  Zimbabwe , said Nov. 7 it will ask its owners to fund
the repayment. On the same day, S&P cut its rating on the notes
three steps to D, or payment default, after the company said it
bought back 24 percent of the debt at a discount of about 25
percent, which S&P said it considered as a distressed exchange.  “There could be a sell-off of South African bonds in the
offshore market as a result of a Reclam default,” Jana Kershaw,
a credit analyst at  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) ’s Rand Merchant Bank in
Johannesburg, said in an e-mail. “Perhaps high-yield bonds will
sell off more than investment-grade notes, but from the offshore
investors’ point of view, a default will be indicative of a
deteriorating environment in South Africa.”  Repayment Options  Reclam General Manager Chris Gavrielides declined to
comment when contacted by  Bloomberg News , one of seven calls
answered by the company. In two e-mailed requests for comment,
he referred Bloomberg News to the company’s financial report
posted on its  website .  The company’s repayment options include raising funds
through local or offshore term loans and using its properties,
plant and equipment, Reclam said in its report for the quarter
through September on its website.  A rand-denominated bank package would be the only “viable
option” for Reclam to repay the bonds, RMB’s Kershaw said. “We
are developing a high-yield  bond market  in South Africa, but the
volume and credit quality of a Reclam rand bond will be too
aggressive for our institutional investor market at present.”  Bond Buyback  The extra yield investors demand to hold South African
 dollar-denominated corporate bonds  rather than  U.S. Treasuries 
has dropped this year, slipping 2 basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 307 basis points yesterday, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.  Reclam bought back a further 18.8 million euros of the
bonds for 174.1 million rand ($19 million), the company said in
its financial report. That’s the equivalent of 14.4 million
euros, representing a 23 percent discount.  “This may have some short-term negative price impact on
existing issuers” in South Africa, Jason Lightfoot, who helps
manage the equivalent of $12.6 billion of fixed-income
investments in Cape Town-based Futuregrowth Asset Management,
said in e-mailed comments on Jan. 21.  Reclam’s bonds traded at 91.88 percent of face value today
from 84 percent at the start of the year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The all-in price of the bonds has improved over the month
of January, although it’s still trading at a discount.”
Lightfoot said. The increase could potentially point to
shareholders coming up with funding or that a refinancing
opportunity has been sourced, he said.  “Both seem unlikely given the current status of the
company,” he said.  Cash Flows  Reclam’s revenue for the three months through September
fell 3.8 percent to 1.92 billion rand from a year earlier, it
said Nov. 28. It had a negative cash balance of 66 million rand
on Sept. 30 from a positive 84 million rand on July 1.  The bonds trade on the Irish Stock Exchange. The bourse
hasn’t received any communication from Reclam about repayments,
Ailish Byrne, the head of public affairs and communications,
said in an e-mail yesterday. South Africa’s National Treasury
didn’t respond to an e-mail and declined to comment on a call.  Old Mutual Plc (OML) , which is the U.K.’s third-biggest insurer,
has a stake of less than 6 percent in Reclam, its South African
asset management unit said in an e-mailed response to questions
yesterday.  A default would prompt offshore investors to consider
selling South African debt in favor of notes from other  emerging
markets , Kershaw said in e-mailed comments yesterday.  Rand Weakness  The rand has weakened 5.9 percent against the dollar since
the start of the year, making it the worst performer among 25
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It strengthened
0.5 percent to 9.0023 in Johannesburg today.  Reclam’s liquidity is “weak,” S&P said in a Nov. 26
research note, where it upgraded the company’s rating to CCC-,
or three levels above default. It kept the assessment on the
bond unchanged at default.  Elad Jelasko, a London-based analyst with S&P, declined to
comment when called on Jan. 18, referring Bloomberg News to the
rating company’s Nov. 26 report.  There will be a “material liquidity deficit” from July
2012 to Feb. 1 when the bond becomes due and a 163 million-rand
 credit line  with  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) , the lender controlled by
Old Mutual, expires, S&P said.  “Given that the company is rated CCC- and the fact that
they haven’t announced refinancing plans less than a month
before the bond matures, I would say there is a high probability
that they would default,” Kershaw said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  