-- Regling Says Ireland, Portugal Gain If EFSF Extends Loans
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2013-01-25T17:07:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/regling-says-ireland-portugal-gain-if-efsf-extends-loans.html
Klaus Regling, head of the euro-area
rescue funds, signaled he backs easier repayment terms for
Ireland and  Portugal , saying it may speed their return to
financial markets.  The option being discussed for the two bailed-out countries
only involves extending maturities, in contrast to  Greece ,
Regling said in an  interview  with Spiegel magazine posted on its
website.  “Unlike Greece, Ireland and Portugal want no suspension of
debt servicing and interest payments, but rather only longer
maturities on one part of their loans,” said Regling, who leads
the permanent 500 billion-euro ($674 billion) European Stability
Mechanism and the temporary European Financial Stability
Facility. “That could help them to return earlier to the
market. That in turn is in all our interests.”  Regling also reiterated that the ESM won’t provide aid
directly to banks except as a last resort, and then only after
the  European Central Bank  has assumed its new responsibilities
as single bank supervisor for the  euro zone . He said the ESM has
more than 400 billion euros available for future rescue efforts,
which could include direct recapitalization.  Euro-area nations are split on when and how they’ll allow
direct aid to banks from the rescue fund. At a meeting of
finance chiefs in Brussels this week, Ireland and  France  led
calls for the new tool to be ready as quickly as possible, while
Germany and Austria warned that direct bailouts won’t be widely
available.  The bank-aid guidelines, which finance ministers aim to
spell out in the first half of this year, might also have
implications for countries that already have received bailouts.
The Spanish government has served as an intermediary in an ESM
rescue of its banking sector, and Cyprus is in the process of
negotiating aid for both its government and its financial
sector.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  