-- Republicans Split Over Electoral College Change Proposals
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-01-26T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/republicans-split-over-electoral-college-change-proposals.html
Republican leaders are divided over
proposals advocated by state lawmakers from their party that
would award presidential electoral votes in a proportional way,
a move that may give their future candidates an edge.  “It’s something that a lot of states are looking at, and
in some cases I think they should look at it,”  Republican
National Committee  Chairman Reince Priebus told reporters after
being re-elected to his post yesterday at a gathering in  North
Carolina . “It is a state issue, but personally I’m pretty
intrigued by it.”  Other party leaders said it’s a bad idea to award electoral
votes by congressional districts won instead of winner-take-all,
as is being discussed in Wisconsin,  Virginia ,  Michigan  and
Pennsylvania.  “I don’t think it’s a good idea,” former Mississippi
governor and onetime RNC chairman  Haley Barbour  said in an
interview airing this weekend on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt .”  Barbour, who along with his nephew, RNC member Henry
Barbour, is close to Priebus, said such changes may not always
benefit Republicans.  “I don’t think anybody can predict with any form of
precision who it’ll help from this election to the next,”
Barbour said.  Terri Lynn Land, an RNC member from Michigan who is a
former secretary of state there, said she isn’t in favor of
changing the awarding of electoral votes, at least for now.  Primary Fix  “I think we need to fix our primary process first,” Land
said during an interview at the RNC meeting in Charlotte. “I
don’t know that I’m sold on all that.”  Glenn McCall, an RNC member from South Carolina who is
serving on a study committee researching ways to make the party
more competitive in elections, said any changes would likely
need to be phased in over several presidential elections.  “I personally agree with the Electoral College, but I’m
open to more discussion about it,” he said. “It’s probably
something we should look at.”  The states discussing the proposal all backed President
 Barack Obama  over Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  in
November’s election. They are also controlled by Republicans at
the state level.  The prospects of Republican-backed legislation in Virginia
appeared doomed for this year, after key Republicans there,
including Governor  Bob McDonnell , said they opposed the bill,
the  Associated Press  reported.  Electoral College votes are awarded based on the size of
each state’s congressional delegation, with one given for each
House member and one for each senator. Nebraska and Maine are
the only two that award them on a proportional basis.  The president won the popular vote with 65.9 million votes
-- or 51.1 percent -- while Romney received 60.9 million votes,
or 47.2 percent. Obama won electoral votes, 332 to 206.  Had Virginia allocated its electors by congressional
district in 2012, Romney would have won nine electoral votes
there to Obama’s four, the AP said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Charlotte, N.C. at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  