-- Trina Says It’s ‘Open’ to Buying Solar Project Developers
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-01-25T19:15:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/trina-open-to-buying-solar-project-developers-in-hunt-for-profit.html
Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , the third-biggest
solar cell maker, is considering whether to buy project
developers as seeks profits by shifting into the construction of
 power plants .  “I certainly see a huge shakeout” in the solar industry,
Ben Hill, president of Trina Solar Europe, said yesterday by
phone from the  World Economic Forum  in Davos,  Switzerland .
“Trina is always open and interested in opportunities. If there
is anything that is advantageous to Trina, then we’d action
that.”  Trina, based in Changzhou, China, in August detailed plans
to develop solar farms using its own modules. It’s seeking to
tap more diverse streams of revenue after a global glut of
panels and slowing sales in Europe made manufacturing the
technology unprofitable.  The company has reported five successive quarterly  losses ,
and its net margin sank as low as minus 26.6 percent in the
second quarter last year. Trina trails  JA Solar Holdings Co.
Ltd. (JASO)  and  Suntech Power Holdings Co. Ltd. (STP)  in cell manufacturing,
and all three Chinese companies are unprofitable.  On Jan. 15, Trina said it received approval from China’s
Gansu province for a 50-megawatt solar farm. Chief Financial
Officer Terry Wang said last week he expects profits to be
generated from the business expansion after the second quarter.
The move into developing power plants is a strategy also
implemented by competitors including  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the
largest U.S. solar company.  ‘Opportunities’  “I don’t think buying more module manufacturing capacity
is interesting for Trina at the moment,” Hill said. “But there
are other opportunities for us to expand our scope and we will
certainly be looking at that.” When asked if that meant buying
project developers, he replied, “That could be a possibility.”  Hill said Trina sees “a route to profitability” after
undertaking a “large cost-cutting exercise.” Delayed payments
from customers that the company had to write off last year are
now being received, so the company is looking for a reversal in
those write-offs this year, he said.  Trina may benefit from a shift in the global solar panel
market away from  Europe , with demand in countries like China,
India and the U.S. compensating for a drop-off of installations
in European markets such as  Germany  and  Italy , Hill said.  “These other markets are picking up the slack, which is
fantastic and a big change from Europe really being very
dominant over the global market,” the executive said. “Now
it’s becoming spread. So for an international company like
Trina, it’s really good.”  China Outlook  Hill said it’s possible that China may exceed its target to
install 10 gigawatts of solar power this year. He forecast 5
gigawatts of installations in Germany, down from 7,634 megawatts
last year, when it was the biggest market. Globally, “we’re not
expecting a significant dip in the market,” he said.  Bloomberg New Energy Finance predicts global installations
of about 33.5 gigawatts in 2013, up from about 30 gigawatts in
2012.  China , the U.S. and  Japan  are likely to be the biggest
markets, according to the London-based analyst, with Germany and
Italy dropping out of the top 3.  Because of a cap on subsidies in Italy, that market will be
“challenged” this year, according to Hill. Even so, it’s close
to grid parity, meaning it may be able survive without
government aid, he said.  “There’s still some fat in the value chain which can come
out so we can reach grid parity,” Hill said. “Our own projects
team is examining possible grid parity project options. That’s
ongoing, but I think the market will still shrink in 2013.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  