-- Roubini Says ‘Hyped Up’ BRIC Success at Risk on Rising State
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2013-01-25T12:10:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/roubini-says-hyped-up-brics-risk-success-on-growing-state-1-.html
The biggest developing nations risk
overturning the achievements of the past decade by increasing
the state’s role in the economy, according to Nouriel Roubini.  Roubini -- dubbed Dr. Doom for predicting hard times before
the global financial crisis began in 2008 -- said  Brazil ,
Russia, India and  China  have been moving away from market
economies recently.  “BRICs have been hyped up too much,” Roubini said in an
interview today at the World Economic Forum’s annual meeting in
Davos, Switzerland. “Too much state role in enterprises, banks,
resource nationalization, protectionism, lack of structural
market-oriented reforms that increase the size of the private
sector -- this is happening in most of the BRICs.”  China maintained control of its biggest companies, Russian
businesses spent shareholder money on projects favored by the
government and Brazilian politicians intervened to cut utility
rates last year.  State-owned  OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  may lose its monopoly on natural
gas exports as long as the move doesn’t cut prices and damage
 Russia ’s economic interests, Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev said
in a Jan. 23 interview in Davos. Gazprom is using its cash to
finance the industry’s largest capital expenditure program, part
of which goes to fund projects favored by President Vladimir Putin.  Downgrade Threat  It took the threat of a credit-rating downgrade for Indian
Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s administration to remove
barriers on foreign investment in the retail and aviation
industries and cut fuel subsidies. Roubini, a professor at  New
York  University, said he favors the  Philippines  and Indonesia
over China and India.  “They are actually doing more in terms of structural
reform,” Roubini said. “The economies are growing more than 6
percent.”  Developing economies are set to grow by an average 5
percent worldwide this year, compared with 1 percent for
advanced nations, according to Roubini.  In Latin America,  Chile  and Colombia “have done a lot of
things to improve their potential for growth,” he said. “In
central Europe, I see success stories like Poland and Czech
Republic doing reforms.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Davos, Switzerland at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  