-- Russian Investment Unexpectedly Falls on Weakening Growth
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2013-01-25T15:30:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/russian-retail-sales-unexpectedly-rise-5-as-unemployment-drops.html
Russian  investment  unexpectedly
contracted in December from a year earlier, dropping for the
second time in four months, as the dimming economic outlook
prompted businesses to cut back spending.  Fixed-capital investment fell 0.7 percent in December, the
biggest drop since January 2011, the Federal Statistics Service
in Moscow said in a report today. Economists estimated an
increase of 0.8 percent, according to the median of 14 estimates
in a  Bloomberg survey . For the year, investment advanced 6.7
percent from 2011.  Less spending is compounding the effects of weak external
demand in choking the economy of the world’s largest energy
exporter. Real wages grew at the slowest pace in more than three
years, suggesting the  consumer spending  that accounts for about
half of Russian gross domestic output may be stumbling.  “It looks like Russian business, especially the private
sector, isn’t ready to invest a lot, and that’s very important
for longer-term growth,” Evgeny Nadorshin, chief economist at
AFK Sistema, a Russian  investment company  with assets ranging
from telecommunications to oil, said by phone. “These numbers
definitely confirm that the Russian economy has been
decelerating and probably still is.”  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  of 50 stocks maintained gains and closed up
0.7 percent at 1,544.02, the highest close since April 3. The
gauge has advanced 4.7 percent this year, compared with a 1.2
percent advance for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index.  Economy Slumps  Economic growth slowed to 2.4 percent in the fourth quarter
compared with the same period a year earlier, the weakest pace
since the start of a recovery in 2010, according to the  median
estimate  of 15 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Industrial
output slowed in December to the weakest pace in eight months,
the service said earlier this week.  Russia wants to maintain economic growth at a stable 5
percent, Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  said in a speech last
week. President  Vladimir Putin  ordered the government in May to
boost investment to 25 percent of annual economic output by
2015, up from 21 percent in 2011.  “We have not seen any significant attempts from the
government to start new investments, and business is not keen to
invest,” said Vladimir Miklashevsky, an economist at  Danske
Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Helsinki.  Unemployment Falls  Unemployment  unexpectedly  slowed to 5.3 percent, just above
the record-low 5.2 percent seen in August and September, the
service said. Economists forecast an increase to 5.6 percent,
according to the median of 13 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  The improving jobless rate amid a weakening economy
“drives me crazy,” Ariel Chernyy, an analyst at Allianz Rosno
Asset Management in Moscow, said by e-mail. The trend raises
questions about the reliability of the service’s unemployment
data, he said.  Real wages , which strip out the effects of inflation, rose
0.3 percent in December compared with a year earlier, the
service said. Economists forecast an increase of 6.8 percent,
according a Bloomberg survey. For the full year, wages grew 7.8
percent, according to the report.  Even so,  retail sales  unexpectedly quickened, advancing 5
percent in December, the fastest pace in five months, the
service said. Sales were forecast to rise 4.3 percent, according
to the median of 15 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Encouraging Data  “Stronger-than-expected data on the labor market and
retail sales looks encouraging,” Dmitry Polevoy, chief
economist for Russia at ING Groep NV in Moscow, said in an e-
mail. Still, the pace may not be maintained because of “nearly
stagnating real-wage growth, moderating lending dynamics, around
7 percent headline inflation and a high base effect.”  The central bank is resisting calls to cut  interest rates ,
sparking a “huge argument” with the government over
priorities, First Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov  said in a
Jan. 18 interview. The government has been increasingly vocal in
its debate with Bank Rossii, with Finance Minister Anton Siluanov and Deputy Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  arguing for
easier credit last week.  ‘Counterproductive’ Easing  Relaxing monetary policy with lower rates would be
“counterproductive” and “likely to produce new imbalances,
new risks for different segments of the economy,” central bank
First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  said Jan. 16 in comments
at the same economic forum where Siluanov and Klepach spoke.  With  inflation  above the central bank’s “still high”
target range of 5 percent to 6 percent, there is little scope to
boost growth through easing credit, said  Alexander Morozov ,
chief economist for Russia at HSBC Holdings Plc in Moscow.
Fiscal or monetary stimulus may undermine potential growth rates
over the medium term, he said in a research note today.  “The only policy response that can and should be employed
in this environment is economic liberalization, business climate
improvement, and structural reforms,” Morozov said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  