-- Russian Parliament Backs Anti-Smoking Bill in Key Ruling
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o   a n d   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2013-01-25T18:39:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/russian-parliament-backs-anti-smoking-bill-in-key-ruling.html
Russian lawmakers approved a
proposed law aimed at cracking down on smoking in the world’s
second-largest tobacco market in the crucial second reading.  The State Duma members voted 442 to 1 in favor of the
amended and weakened version of the bill, which keeps a ban on
smoking in public places, while dropping restrictions on
cigarette sales. The government will retain the right to set
minimum cigarette prices, the only proposed concession that
wasn’t approved by the lawmakers.  Russia ’s ban on public smoking will take effect in
mid-2014, six months earlier than planned, under the draft law.  Russia’s Health Ministry is satisfied with the law and will
continue pushing for higher excise taxes, Deputy Health Minister
Sergei Velmyaikin told reporters in Moscow today.  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM) ,  British American Tobacco
Plc (BATS) ,  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914)  and  Imperial Tobacco Group Plc (IMT) , which
control 93 percent of the $19.5-billion Russian market, had
opposed the curbs on cigarette consumption, which were supported
by Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  and approved on the first
reading on Dec. 14. The Duma is yet to vote on the draft in the
third reading.  The amended draft “still has a prohibitive angle and has
little about promoting a healthy lifestyle,”Alexander Lyutyi,
corporate director for BAT Russia, said by phone from Moscow.
“In some way, the draft is eliminating competition.”  Previous Proposal  Russia’s government had proposed measures that would outlaw
all tobacco advertising and sponsorship as well as kiosk sales
immediately, with bans on trade in small retail outlets and
smoking in public places taking effect Jan. 1, 2015.  Tobacco makers will be able to sponsor philanthropy and
sell cigarettes in all retail outlets except for kiosks,
according to Alexei Levchenko, an aide to Deputy Prime Minister
Olga Golodets. The draft law also drops plans to end duty-free
tobacco sales. Cigarette packs will carry photo warnings
starting in June, Velmyaikin said.  The new version of the legislation is a compromise after a
“multi-million-dollar campaign” by the tobacco lobby,
according to lawmaker Dmitry Nosov.  BAT, Europe’s largest cigarette maker, rose 0.4 percent to
3,262 pence.  Philip Morris , the world’s largest publicly traded
tobacco company, fell as much as 0.9 percent, the most in three
days.  In Russia, 39 percent of the population are regular
smokers, according to the  World Health Organization . About
400,000 Russians, or 0.3 percent of the population, die each
year from smoking-related diseases, Medvedev said in October.
That compares with 114,000, or 0.2 percent in the U.K.  Russia is the second-biggest tobacco market after China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  