-- Salesforce Seeking Shareholder Approval for 4-for-1 Split
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-01-25T23:49:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/salesforce-seeking-shareholder-approval-for-4-for-1-split.html
Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) , a of online
customer relationship management software, plans a four-for-one
stock split that would make each of its shares more “affordable
and attractive” to more investors.  The San Francisco-based company will hold a meeting at its
headquarters on March 20 for  shareholders  to approve a higher
share count, Salesforce said in a filing today with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. The proposal would let
Salesforce issue as many as 1.61 billion shares, from the 405
million it can currently issue.  A stock split will make Salesforce’s shares “more
affordable and attractive to a broader group of potential
investors, increase liquidity in the trading of our common stock
and increase the attractiveness of our employee equity awards,”
according to the filing.  Salesforce, whose software is used by companies to manage
sales leads and quotas, rose 0.9 percent to $173.86 at the  close 
in New York. The shares, which have gained 47 percent in the
past year, trade at 89 times next year’s expected  earnings .  Among a group of 16 peers in the software sector, only
 NetSuite Inc. (N)  had a higher  forward  price-earnings multiple. The
split won’t affect Salesforce’s  market value , which stood at
$24.7 billion.  Stock splits can make a company’s shares more accessible to
a greater number of investors. Investment advisers currently
 hold  84 percent of Salesforce’s shares, while individual
investors hold 6.7 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. By contrast, 27 percent of  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ’s shares are
 held  by individuals.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  