-- Sanofi’s Chief Says Investors Underestimate Drug Pipeline
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i   a n d   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r
-- 2013-01-25T16:08:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/sanofi-s-chief-says-investors-underestimate-drug-pipeline.html
Sanofi (SAN)  Chief Executive Officer Chris Viehbacher says investors are still underestimating the French
company’s pipeline of experimental drugs.  Sanofi has gained 31 percent over the past year in Paris
trading, giving the company a market value of 96.4 billion euros
($129.8 billion). Sanofi last year surpassed  Total SA (FP)  as the
biggest company by value in  France ’s benchmark  CAC 40 (CAC)  Index.  “People have started to recognize the value of our
diversified model, and I think the future increase is going to
come from the R&D pipeline, which is underestimated,”
Viehbacher said during an interview today with Bloomberg
Television in Davos, Switzerland, where he is attending the
World Economic Forum.  Viehbacher, who became CEO in December 2008, has been
bolstering Sanofi’s pipeline by reorganizing research and
development, dropping the least promising projects and
accelerating acquisitions and partnerships. Paris-based Sanofi
needs the new products to make up for sales declines caused by
generic competition to its biggest medicines, such as the Plavix
blood thinner.  Sanofi shares can rise further, Viehbacher said today.  “There is still value in the stock,” he said. “All that
we’ve done is really caught up to the rest of the industry
because we clearly were at a discount. I think the whole
industry is still poised for a re-rating.”  Deadly Virus  Sanofi shares sell for 11.7 times this year’s estimated
earnings, compared with an average price-earnings ratio of 12.7
for the world’s biggest drugmakers. Three years ago, after
Viehbacher’s first year on the job, Sanofi fetched only 8.2
times earnings.  Aubagio, a pill to treat multiple sclerosis, Zaltrap for
cancer, and the diabetes medicine Lyxumia are among the new
drugs Sanofi is bringing to market. Viehbacher has cited a
vaccine against dengue, a deadly mosquito-borne virus, and a
cholesterol-lowering drug targeting an enzyme called PCSK9, as
experimental therapies he’s excited about.  “I am very happy with our late-stage pipeline,” he also
said.  Sanofi continues looking at acquisition opportunities but
doesn’t want to overpay for assets, the CEO said. The company is
targeting “bolt-on” transactions in the price range of between
1 billion euros and 2 billion euros, he said this month.  ‘Constantly’ Looking  “It is fair to say that there is not much that goes by us
that we don’t evaluate,” he said. “You constantly have to be
looking outside your company and see what’s going on. You don’t
want to have someone steal a march on you.”  The French drugmaker “does acquisitions well” and has
been successful in integrating Genzyme Corp., the U.S. biotech
acquired in 2011 for $20.1 billion, Viehbacher said.  “The problem is, today all of our competitors have cash
and everything is pretty much fully valued,” he said. “I only
want to do acquisitions where I can find the value.”  In the months to come, Sanofi will do some deals or find a
way to return the cash to shareholders if it fails to find
assets at attractive enough valuations, he said.  The French drugmaker is among companies that have shown
interest in the eye-care company Bausch & Lomb Inc., people with
knowledge of the matter said this month. Viehbacher declined to
comment on specific interest in Bausch & Lomb.  More in general, ophthalmology is becoming an increasingly
important area as the population grow older, the CEO said.  “With the aging population, eyesight is extremely
important from the quality of life point of view, eyesight
diseases are becoming visible that weren’t, and you are seeing
some interesting science in there, Viehbacher said. However,
‘‘from a company point of view, you have to decide whether or
not you can create value in there,’’ he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  