-- Sanusi Defends Record Nigeria Rates as Inflation Eases
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2013-01-25T14:50:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/sanusi-defends-record-nigeria-rates-as-inflation-eases.html
Nigeria’s record interest rates have
brought stability to the economy at the same time that inflation
pressures ease, central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi said.  Inflation above 12 percent “is a problem” for economic
growth, Sanusi said in an interview at the World Economic Forum
in Davos today. Consumer-price growth may be close to 10 percent
in January, though keeping it at less than that for the rest of
the year “will be very difficult,” he said.  “High rates have delivered stable exchange rates, they’ve
delivered an increase in reserves, they’ve delivered stable
inflation,” he said. “I don’t think we should take that for
granted.”  Policy makers in  Africa ’s largest oil producer left the
 benchmark interest rate  unchanged at 12 percent for an eighth
consecutive meeting on Jan. 21. While inflation eased to 12
percent in December, it’s still above the central bank’s goal of
below 10 percent.  “It’s natural that the Ministry of Finance will want to
see lower rates of interest because of the huge cost of debt and
it’s also natural that the private sector will complain about
the rates of interest because of high borrowing costs,” Sanusi,
51, said. “But higher rates of interest are the price you pay
for a high inflation environment.”  The outlook for  inflation  is “pretty good” and the
average for the rate this year will be lower than the 12.24
percent recorded in 2012, Sanusi said.  Foreign Inflows  Policy makers doubled the benchmark rate since September
2010 to help bolster the currency and curb inflation. The
central bank pegs the naira at about 3 percent above or below
155 per dollar by selling foreign currency at twice-weekly
auctions. It was trading at 157.20 a dollar on the interbank
market as of 2:45 p.m. in Lagos, Nigeria’s commercial capital.  The bank will hold off on lowering borrowing costs while it
monitors government spending “and until we actually believe
that inflation is coming down and lowering rates will not in any
way undermine the tremendous achievements we’ve had,” Sanusi
said.  High interest rates have fueled foreign investment in
Nigeria’s stocks and bonds, increasing the risk to the economy
if inflows reverse.  Short-term inflows are “less than 20 percent of
reserves,” Sanusi said. “We have enough at any point in time
to fund any outflows of portfolios. It’s something that, if it
continues too long, it will be a source of concern, but at the
moment, it’s not.”  The economy will probably expand about 7 percent this year,
the governor said, citing figures from the statistics agency.
The government’s budget predicts growth of 6.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Davos, Switzerland at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  