-- Saxby Chambliss Says He Won’t Seek Third U.S. Senate Term
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-01-25T20:46:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/saxby-chambliss-said-to-not-seek-third-senate-term.html
Republican U.S. Senator  Saxby Chambliss  of Georgia cited frustration with “legislative
gridlock” in announcing he won’t seek a third term next year,
giving Democrats their first opportunity to win an open Senate
seat in 2014.  Chambliss, 69, was a member of the so-called Gang of Six, a
bipartisan group of senators who offered a $3.7 trillion
deficit-cutting plan in 2011. It included proposed revenue
increases opposed by many Republicans.  Chambliss’s role in trying to broker a compromise during
negotiations over raising the government’s debt ceiling drew
criticism from some in his party. Two U.S. House members from
Georgia,  Tom Price  and Paul Broun, had considered challenging
Chambliss in a primary, according to the Atlanta-Journal
Constitution.  In a  statement  on his website, the senator said his
decision wasn’t motivated by a desire to avoid a Republican
primary challenge.  “Instead, this is about frustration, both at a lack of
leadership from the White House and at the dearth of meaningful
action from Congress, especially on issues that are the
foundation of our nation’s economic health,” Chambliss said.  He said the 2011 fight over raising the debt limit and this
month’s budget measure “showed Congress at its worst and,
sadly, I don’t see the legislative gridlock and partisan
posturing improving anytime soon.”  Tough Fight  Chambliss voted for the Jan. 1 legislation that raised
taxes on high-earning individuals and families and postponed
automatic spending cuts.  The senator’s decision about the next election was likely
motivated by a desire to avoid a tough fight to win the
Republican nomination, said Merle Black, an expert on Southern
politics at  Emory University  in Atlanta.  “Whether anybody beat him or not, there would have been
some challenger,” Black said in a telephone interview. “He
would have encountered a lot of dissatisfied Republicans so it
wouldn’t have been a pleasant experience,” he said.  Chambliss’s announcement was hailed by the Tea Party
Patriots, a national umbrella group based in  Washington .  “Senator Chambliss led us down the wrong road by
compromising our values on tax hikes and supporting” the
financial bailout in 2008, Jenny Beth Martin, the group’s
national coordinator, said in a statement. “The grassroots
revolted against him and we look forward to new leadership,”
she said.  Top Priority  Democrats will make the Georgia Senate race “a top
priority,” said Guy Cecil, executive director of the Democratic
Senatorial Campaign Committee. Democrats control the Senate
55-45.  “ Georgia  will now offer Democrats one of our best pickup
opportunities” in 2014, Cecil said in a statement. “There are
already several reports of the potential for a divisive primary
that will push Republicans to the extreme right.”  “Who’s their candidate?” Black said.  A Democratic victory in the 2014 Senate race is unlikely
because “Democrats have a hard time getting past 45 or 46
percent of the vote” statewide, Black said in a telephone
interview.  Democratic Representative John Barrow, who must worry about
defending his House seat, would “probably be the strongest
candidate the Democrats could put up” is “totally untested in
a statewide race,” Black said.  ‘Uphill Battle’  Senator Jerry Moran of  Kansas , chairman of the Senate
Republicans’ campaign group, said in a statement that even with
Chambliss’s retirement, “Democrats have a very uphill battle to
try wresting this seat from Republican hands.” Georgia voters
chose Republican  Mitt Romney  over President  Barack Obama  by 53
percent to 45 percent in the Nov. 6 election.  Moran said the race will give Georgia voters a choice
between “a Republican candidate who believes in reining in
wasteful Washington spending, growing jobs and protecting” gun-
ownership rights “versus a liberal Democrat who will be a loyal
rubber-stamp” for Obama.  The race for the Republican nomination is “wide open” now
that Chambliss has decided to leave the Senate in two years,
Black said. An orthopedic surgeon and a “respected voice in the
House,” Price “could raise all sorts of money if he decides to
do it,” Black said. “I would be surprised if he weren’t a
candidate,” he said.  Close Race  In November, Price, 59, lost a close race to lead the House
Republican Conference to Cathy McMorris Rodgers of Washington.  Ellen Carmichael, a Price spokeswoman, said the five-term
congressman is considering a possible Senate candidacy. The
congressman “is speaking with a number of folks across the
state” and will “make a decision and announcement at the
appropriate time,” she said in an e-mail.  Another possible Republican candidate is  Karen Handel , the
former Georgia secretary of state, Black said.  After serving four U.S. House terms, Chambliss won election
to the Senate in 2002 by defeating Democratic Senator Max Cleland, a Vietnam War veteran who lost both legs and his right
arm in combat.  ‘Courage to Lead’  Chambliss accused Cleland in a campaign ad of hampering the
fight against terrorism by opposing homeland-security
legislation proposed by President  George W. Bush . A year after
the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, the TV spot questioned Cleland’s
“courage to lead” the fight against terrorism and “extremist
dictators.”  The ad drew criticism from veterans’ groups and an
organization representing families of Sept. 11 victims.  Chambliss had a tough re-election race in 2008 in which
neither he nor his Democratic opponent, former state
Representative Jim Martin, got a majority vote on election day.
Chambliss defeated Martin in a runoff a month later.  Chambliss is the second senator to decide not to seek re-
election next year. West Virginia Democrat  Jay Rockefeller , 75,
announced Jan. 11 that he wouldn’t seek a sixth term, giving
Republicans an opportunity to win a Senate seat that Democrats
have held since the 1950s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  