-- SEC Said to Back Hire of U.S. Capitol Police Inspector General
-- B y   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2013-01-25T16:52:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/sec-said-to-back-hire-of-u-s-capitol-police-inspector-general.html
The Securities and Exchange
Commission has selected the inspector general of the U.S.
Capitol Police to be the agency’s internal watchdog, two people
familiar with the matter said.  Carl Hoecker has led the police department’s inspector
office since 2006, according to an online biography. A certified
public accountant who began his career as an Army military
policeman, Hoecker was previously deputy inspector general for
investigations at the Treasury Department. The Capitol Police
provide security on the grounds of the U.S. Capitol.  The appointment would fill the vacancy left by H. David Kotz, who quit a year ago after criticism of his investigations
and possible conflicts of interest, including his decision to
accept tickets to a Philadelphia Eagles football game from a
paid radio broadcaster. The office has been run temporarily by
the inspector general of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  Hoecker didn’t immediately return a call and e-mail seeking
comment. SEC spokesman  John Nester  didn’t immediately answer an
e-mail seeking comment.  The SEC inspector general is an independent internal
investigator charged with ferreting out waste, fraud and abuse
inside the agency.  One of Hoecker’s main tasks will be to re-establish the
credibility of the unit, which has been in turmoil due to
scrutiny of Kotz, as well as other issues with employees.  Personnel Disputes  In one incident late last year, the former chief of
investigations in the office,  David Weber , sued the SEC for $40
million after he was fired for allegedly carrying a firearm
while on duty. Weber, who denied he did anything improper, said
in court papers that he was terminated as part of a campaign to
“cover up” and “whitewash” wrongdoing that he was
investigating.  Weber had also raised allegations of improper conduct by
Kotz. Those complaints prompted the SEC to bring in  David
Williams , the inspector general of the U.S. Postal Service, to
conduct an independent review.  Williams concluded last September that Kotz violated ethics
rules by overseeing probes that involved people with whom he had
“personal relationships.” Kotz is now a director at Berkeley
Research Group, a consulting firm in  Washington .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 