-- Senate Sets Vote on $60.2 Billion Hurricane Sandy Plan
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-01-25T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/senate-sets-vote-on-60-2-billion-hurricane-sandy-plan.html
The Senate plans a Jan. 28 vote to
complete congressional action on a $60.2 billion aid package for
 Hurricane Sandy  victims three months after the storm hit the
U.S. Northeast, Majority Leader Harry Reid said.  The legislation, approved Jan. 15 by the Republican-
controlled House, will be voted on along with one amendment,
said Reid, a Nevada Democrat. The amendment would require a 60-
vote supermajority to pass, increasing the likelihood the Senate
will send the House measure to President  Barack Obama  unchanged.  “We need to pass this relief package,” Senator Bob Menendez, a New Jersey Democrat, said on the floor of the
chamber Jan. 23. “No American should have to languish for
months after a disaster to get help.”  The storm struck near Atlantic City, New Jersey, Oct. 29
with hurricane-force winds and flooding that killed more than
125 people in 10 states. It ravaged shore communities as far
north as Bridgeport,  Connecticut .  Delays in enacting the aid plan angered lawmakers from New
York as well Connecticut and the Garden State. Northeast
Republicans, led by New Jersey Governor Chris Christie,
denounced House Speaker John Boehner’s Jan. 1 decision not to
seek a vote that day on the aid. That forced the new Congress
that took office Jan. 3 to start anew on the legislation.  Angry Republicans  Boehner, an Ohio Republican, relented after meeting with
angry party colleagues representing New Jersey and New York. The
House voted Jan. 4 to pass a $9.7 billion increase in the
national flood-insurance fund’s borrowing authority. A Senate
vote later that day allowed the fund to continue paying 120,000
claims from the region.  The House passed the rest of the plan Jan. 15 on a 241-180
vote. It includes $17 billion to meet the immediate needs of
Sandy victims and $33.5 billion for long-term reconstruction.  Boehner delayed earlier action on the measure because a
number of Republicans opposed providing emergency aid without
offsetting it with other budget savings. When the aid package
passed the House, 179 Republicans voted against it while 49
Republicans joined 192 Democrats to pass the measure.  The bill is H.R. 152.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  