-- Shippers Extend Clean Fuel Pledge After Hong Kong Vows Laws
-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n
-- 2013-01-25T05:52:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/shippers-extend-clean-fuel-pledge-after-city-vows-tighter-rules.html
Shipping companies including  A.P.
Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB)  will extend a pact to use cleaner fuel while
at berth in  Hong Kong  for a year after the city pledged to
impose mandatory limits on all ocean-going vessels.  The 17 shipping companies will use fuel with 0.5 percent
sulfur or less at berth in Hong Kong and were “delighted”
after Chief Executive Leung Chun-Ying announced plans for
tighter regulation during a policy address last week, said  Tim
Smith , Maersk Line’s North Asia chief executive officer.  The companies’ decision may add pressure on Leung to follow
through with a pledge to tighten controls on pollution that’s
responsible for 3,000 premature deaths a year in the city.
Vessel emissions are a major source of the city’s pollution,
which has defied more than 25 years of government efforts to
tame it.  “Recognizing that it will take more time to introduce the
legislation to make fuel switch mandatory in Hong Kong, the
industry has decided it will extend the voluntary switch for
another year,” Smith, who is also chairman of the Hong Kong
Liner Shipping Association, said at a briefing in the city.  Fifteen shipping lines, two cruise lines and an autoliner
agreed in 2010 to abide by the  Fair Winds Charter  until the end
of 2012 to voluntarily use bunker fuel with a sulfur content of
0.5 percent or less while in Hong Kong waters. Vessels can now
burn oil containing 3,500 times the sulfur as auto diesel sold
in the city.  About 200,000 vessels called at Hong Kong port in 2011, of
which about 30,000 are ocean-going vessels, marine department
 statistics show . Sulfur dioxide emissions from ships would drop
by 80 percent if all shipping lines switched to the cleanest
fuel available while at port, according to Hong Kong-based think
tank  Civic Exchange .  Keep Momentum  “What we want to see now is to keep up the momentum from
the industry, by bringing other shipping companies on board”
such as cruise ship companies, Simon Ng, Civic Exchange’s head
of transport and sustainability research, said in a statement
after today’s briefing.  Hong Kong has never met its air quality targets in the
years since since they were adopted in 1987, according to a
November government audit report.  “We envisage this to be completed in a relatively short
time,” said  Christine Loh , the city’s undersecretary for the
environment, on the timing of the legislation.  The 17 companies participating in today’s announcement
include  Pacific Basin Shipping Ltd. (2343) , Hapag-Lloyd AG and Cosco
Shipping Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Khan in Hong Kong at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  