-- Six Canadian Banks May Be Cut by Moody’s Next Week
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-01-25T21:15:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/six-canadian-banks-may-be-cut-by-moody-s-next-week.html
Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  and five other
Canadian  lenders  could have their credit ratings downgraded by
Moody’s Investors Service next week, an analyst at the Bank of
 Nova Scotia  said.  Moody’s placed Toronto-Dominion,  Bank of Nova Scotia , and
four other lenders on review for possible downgrade on Oct. 26,
citing the heightened risk to Canada’s economy from rising
consumer debt and real estate prices. Toronto-Dominion is the
last publicly traded bank rated AAA by Moody’s.  “We continue to watch for the Moody’s downgrade of
Canadian banks, which we expect to happen within the week,”
Robert Follis, a fixed-income analyst at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ,
wrote in a note to clients today.  Moody’s is also reviewing  Bank of Montreal (BMO) , Caisse Centrale
Desjardins, Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce and  National Bank
of Canada. (NA)  Toronto-Dominion has been rated Aaa since 2007,
Moody’s highest rating. Scotiabank and Caisse Centrale
Desjardins are Aa1, the second-highest ranking, and CIBC and
National Bank are Aa2.  Moody’s declined to comment, said David Beattie, a vice-
president and senior credit officer, in Toronto.  “I expect downgrades to be one to two notches on a
standalone basis,” National Bank Financial analyst  Peter Routledge  said in a phone interview today. “I don’t think
spreads will move and I don’t think the equity market will move
on this. It’s well telegraphed. The market has already priced it
in.”  Royal Bank of Canada , the country’s largest lender, had its
credit rating cut two levels to Aa3 by Moody’s on June 21
because of its “significant exposure” to volatile capital
markets activities.  Canadian household debt to disposable income rose to 165
percent in the third quarter of last year, compared with 163
percent in the prior three-month period. Sales of existing homes
fell 17.4 percent in December from the month before while the
average sale price rose.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Thorpe at 
 jthorpe23@bloomberg.net  