-- Somalia Needs Secure Funds Before Troops Can Leave, UN Says
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2013-01-25T17:48:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/somalia-needs-secure-funds-before-troops-can-leave-un-says.html
Somali security forces will not be
able to replace African troops until the international community
provides “predictable” funding for their training, according
to the  United Nations .  “The withdrawal, whether it’s Ethiopian or Amisom, is
contingent upon adequate replacement by the Somali forces,”
 Augustine Mahiga , the UN sectrerary-general’s special
representative to the Horn of Africa nation, said in an
interview in  Addis Ababa ,  Ethiopia . “The pace at which Somali
forces are being trained is not as fast because there hasn’t
been predictable funding.”  Over the past 12 months, troops with the African Union
Mission in Somalia, or Amisom, and the Ethiopian military have
removed al-Shabaab, a militia linked to al-Qaeda, from key areas
including the capital, Mogadishu, the port of Kismayu, and
Baidoa, the nation’s second-largest city.  Military efforts are now focused on eliminating remaining
insurgents and training Somali security forces to maintain law
and order, Mahiga said.  Somalia has had no effective central government since
rebels overthrew dictator Mohamed Siad Barre in 1991. That
triggered 21 years of civil war where warlords, regional
administrations, Islamist militants and pirates fought for
dominance. A series of transitional governments failed to quell
the disorder. Somali lawmakers in September elected Hassan
Sheikh Mohamoud as president.  Security forces need to be trained and an arms embargo on
the government lifted, said Somali Foreign Minister Fauzia Yusuf
Haji Adan. “As soon as that’s happened then Amisom and
Ethiopian troops can leave  Somalia ,” she said in an interview
today at the African Union summit in Addis Ababa.  The European Union, which pays the salaries of the Amisom
troops, is discussing offering “assured funding,” Mahiga said.
Turkey and countries from the  Persian Gulf  may also provide
money for “overstretched” Amisom peacekeepers, he said. The
mission may become a joint UN and African Union operation once
the threat from rebels is eliminated, Mahiga said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  