-- South Sudan to Start Teak Exports to Cut Dependence on Oil
-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 2013-01-25T09:04:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/south-sudan-plans-to-start-teak-exports-to-cut-dependence-on-oil.html
Equatoria Teak Co., a South Sudan-
based forestry group, plans to start shipping the wood from the
East African nation within two months, helping the country
diversify away from its dependence on oil.  The company, a unit of London-based venture capital group
 Maris Capital , will export a container load of furniture-grade
teak to the U.S. within two months and may boost shipments to
three containers a week by April, Coco Ferguson, a director of
ETC, said in an interview in the South Sudanese capital of Juba.
Exports may yield millions of dollars a year, said Simon Ndigi,
state minister for trade and investment.  “It is a rare product and demand worldwide is
exceptionally high,” he said in a Jan. 22 phone interview from
Yambio, the state capital of Western Equatoria. “It is of huge
economic benefit to Western Equatoria state and to the Republic
of South Sudan.”  Teak is one of the most valuable hardwoods and planted teak
forests have attracted investment in  Africa , Asia and Latin
America, according to a March 2012 report by the Food and
Agriculture Organization. Processed timber can retail at prices
from $750 per cubic meter (35.3 cubic feet) to $1,500 per cubic
meter, according to ETC. Globally, teak constitutes the only
planted hardwood resource that is increasing in terms of area,
the FAO said.  Africa’s Oldest  South  Sudan ’s teak forests are the oldest in Africa, having
been planted by British colonialists before Sudan gained
independence in 1956, according to Ndigi. The trees haven’t been
harvested because development of forestry was impeded by two
civil wars, including a two-decade conflict that led to South
Sudan’s independence from Sudan in 2011.  South Sudan’s only export is oil, which the government
relies upon to generate 98 of its revenue. Last year, the state
shut down crude production in a dispute with neighboring Sudan
over transit fees. That led to a foreign-exchange shortage and
resulted in the South Sudanese pound weakening 6.3 percent since
the start of 2012. Black-market rates fell even further, with
the pound falling as much as 30 percent to 5 a dollar on the
street of Juba, according to an April report by Standard
Chartered Plc. The currency changed hands at 4.2 a dollar
yesterday.  The government has said it plans to diversify the economy
by developing industries such as agriculture and mining. The
country still imports most of its food and a mining law that
would allow companies to purchase concessions is awaiting
President  Salva Kiir ’s signature after being passed by
Parliament in November.  Empty Containers  Teak may fill some of the containers that leave South Sudan
empty after arriving fully loaded in a country that imports
everything from building materials to telephone poles, Ferguson
said. The load of teak being shipped by ETC will travel by road
through Uganda to the Kenyan port of  Mombasa , she said.  The logs may fetch top prices because of the high quality
of South Sudanese teak and because ETC is the first company in
Africa to obtain certification from the Bonn, Germany-based
 Forest Stewardship Council , which allows access to markets in
the U.S.,  Europe  and  China , she said.  “Our teak is second only to the Burmese type of teak,
Ndigi said.  Burma , also known as Myanmar, ‘‘is the only country
producing quality teak from natural forests,’’ according to the
Rome-based FAO. The agency forecast ‘‘a continuing decline in
the volume and quality of natural teak.’’  Investment  ETC owns plantations in South Sudan covering 18,640
hectares (46,060 acres), 1,319 hectares of which are under teak,
according to its website. Central Equatoria Teak Co., which is
also a unit of Maris Capital, holds the rights to three
plantations in Lainya County and around the town of Yei,
Ferguson said.  ETC has invested $10 million developing the company and is
committed to investing an additional $4 million, Ferguson said.  In February, the CETC will hire workers to start thinning
plantations, begin work on a nursery for new planting, and break
ground on community fund construction projects, Ferguson said.
As the company grows, it will invest in infrastructure that is
needed in Lainya county and throughout South Sudan, which is one
of the world’s poorest countries, according to the World Bank.  ‘‘It’s not easy doing business here,” Ferguson said. “But
it’s worth it because otherwise trees that have been here since
the 1940s will be gone and people living there won’t benefit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Juba via Nairobi at 
 jferrie1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  