-- Spain Doesn’t Need Bailout or Budget Cuts, Guindos Says
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   R y a n   C h i l c o t e
-- 2013-01-25T14:50:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/spain-doesn-t-need-bailout-or-budget-cuts-guindos-says.html
Spain ’s Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said his country doesn’t need a bailout and that budget
cuts that have already been  planned  will be sufficient to meet a
deficit goal set by the European Union for 2013.  “Spain doesn’t need any sort of bailout” and the target
for the budget shortfall this year is “achievable,” de Guindos
told Ryan Chilcote in a Bloomberg Television interview today in
Davos,  Switzerland , where he is attending the  World Economic
Forum . “The perception of the Spanish economy has improved and
will continue to do so over the next weeks and months.”  Pressure on Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s government has
eased after borrowing costs fell in the wake of the  European
Central Bank ’s pledge in September to buy bonds if nations apply
for help. Unemployment still rose to a record 26 percent last
year, and de Guindos declined to say today if the country will
meet an EU deficit forecast of 7 percent of gross domestic
product in 2012, excluding European aid to banks.  “It’s not a magic number, there are several elements to
take into account,” de Guindos said. “I think the measures we
have taken, that we have included in our budget law are enough
to reach our targets.”  The European Commission prediction for Spain’s budget
shortfall last year is already wider than the EU’s goal of 6.3
percent of gross domestic product. The target for 2013 is 4.5
percent.  Draghi’s Pledge  De Guindos said the ECB’s bond program showed the
determination of the euro region’s officials to combat the
crisis. ECB President  Mario Draghi  pledged in July to do
whatever is needed to preserve the euro.  “Much more important than the possibility of buying bonds
in the secondary market is the clear commitment that this
program shows in terms of the future of the euro zone,” de
Guindos said. “So far we do not need the ECB buying bonds in
the secondary market, what we need is to dispel all the doubts
on the future of the euro zone.”  The yield on Spain’s 10-year benchmark bond was at 5.141
percent at 3:49 p.m. in  Madrid . That compares with an intraday
record of 7.75 percent on July 25, before Draghi said he would
do all it takes to save the euro. Spain still pays 3.5
percentage points more than  Germany  to borrow for 10 years.  “The spread is too wide, given the fundamentals of the
Spanish economy,” de Guindos said. “We expect it will continue
to narrow over the next months because we feel doubts over the
future of the euro zone will start to dissipate.”  While Spain’s budget deficit goal can be achieved this
year, that for 2014 depends on the expected economic recovery
materializing, de Guindos said.  The  International Monetary Fund  this week cut its forecast
for economic growth in 2013 in the euro area’s fourth-largest
economy, predicting that it will contract 1.5 percent instead of
1.4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
 Ryan Chilcote  in London at 
 rchilcote@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  