-- Specialty Fashion Rises Most on Record on Forecast: Sydney Mover
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-01-25T01:01:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/specialty-fashion-rises-most-on-record-on-forecast-sydney-mover.html
Specialty Fashion Group Ltd. (SFH) ,
 Australia ’s second-largest listed clothing retailer by store
numbers, climbed the most on record after the company forecast
first-half earnings would be the highest in three years.  The stock jumped as much as 47 percent to A$1.03 in Sydney,
the highest since May 2011 and the biggest gain since its 1998
stock market listing, with trading volume that was 27 times the
three-month full-day average. Net income will be A$17 million
($17.8 million) to A$18 million in the first half, compared with
A$6.2 million in the year-earlier period, the Sydney-based
company said in a statement.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia has cut  interest rates  six
times since November 2011 to fuel stronger growth outside of a
resource-investment boom. Relatively strong profit margins
should help local clothing retailers over the coming year if
sales volumes pick up, Macquarie Group Ltd. analysts wrote in a
research note Jan. 23.  “We have pulled all the levers within our control to
achieve sustainable improvements,” Gary Perlstein, chief
executive officer of Specialty Fashion, said in the statement.
“Our results reflect this.”  Lower freight costs and cheaper cotton prices, together
with higher sale prices and other supply-chain improvements,
helped lift gross margins to a record 62 percent during the
first half, Specialty Fashion said. The measure shows the profit
the company makes on goods sales over what they paid for the
items, and excludes staff, rental and interest costs.  First-half earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization will be A$37 million to A$38 million, the company
said, the best since the half year through December 2009.  “This is a really significant turnaround in the trading
performance,” Perlstein said in an interview. Still, the
broader retail environment remains weak, he said. “We’re
certainly not getting carried away; we still see very
challenging times ahead. The consumer has not learned to be
immune to world events.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  