-- Spurs Join Arsenal in Race for Diame, Guardian Says: Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-01-25T11:10:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/spurs-join-arsenal-in-race-for-diame-guardian-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the web.  London for Diame  Tottenham is considering joining Arsenal and Fulham in the
race to sign West Ham midfielder Mohamed Diame,  the Guardian
said.   The 25-year-old from  Senegal  can get out of his contract
with a payment of 3.5 million pounds ($5.5 million) and Spurs
manager Andre Villas-Boas may attempt to sign him since
preferred target Joao Moutinho is too expensive at 20 million
pounds, the newspaper said.  Diame, who was a late substitute in the Hammers’ game at
Arsenal this week, said he is happy at the east London club,
the Guardian said.  New Defender  Manchester United manager  Alex Ferguson  has decided to sign
French under-19 team member Kurt Zouma as the replacement for
central defender  Nemanja Vidic ,  the Daily Mail said.   The 18-year-old from St. Etienne, who might cost about 8
million pounds, is Ferguson’s first choice after the coach also
looked at Benfica’s Ezequiel Garay, the newspaper said.  Derry’s Dig  Queens Park Rangers midfielder Shaun Derry accused some of
his teammates of not working hard enough to save the Premier
League’s last-place club from relegation,  the Daily Telegraph
said.   QPR didn’t win any of its first 16 league matches and
manager  Harry Redknapp  replaced the fired Mark Hughes in
November. Derry said some members of the squad are “taking it
for granted” that they and the team deserve to be in the top
division, the newspaper said.  Barcelona Babe  Arsenal is looking to bring in Barcelona forward Isaac
Cuenca on loan,  the Daily Express said.   The 21-year-old hasn’t appeared for the Spanish league
leader this season because of a knee injury, the newspaper said.
He needs game time to help his recovery and is unlikely to play
at Barcelona because of the number of attackers in the squad,
the Express said.  Inspired Downing  Liverpool winger  Stewart Downing  said he was inspired to
improve his play after manager  Brendan Rodgers  told him he could
leave the club,  the Sun said.   The 28-year-old signed for 20 million pounds in July 2011
when  Kenny Dalglish  was still manager, and lost his place when
Rodgers took over, the newspaper said. He’s started the last 10
games after improving and winning over Rodgers, the Sun said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  