-- Square COO Rabois Resigns After Alleged Misconduct
-- B y   A r i   L e v y   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2013-01-26T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/square-operating-chief-rabois-resigns-sarah-friar-is-acting-coo.html
Square Inc., the mobile-payment
startup, said Chief Operating Officer Keith Rabois has resigned
after he was accused of misconduct by a fellow employee.  Following a statement this week that he was leaving to do
something new, the company sent out an e-mail yesterday saying
it received the threat of a lawsuit two weeks ago from an
employee. In a  blog post , Rabois said he was involved in a
romantic relationship with someone who was hired at Square. He
denied allegations that the relationship was non-consensual.  “While we have not found evidence to support any claims,
Keith exercised poor judgment that ultimately undermined his
ability to remain an effective leader at Square,” the company
wrote. “We accepted his resignation.”  When Rabois started in 2010, the company had 17 employees,
and fewer than 1,000 merchants were actively using the product -
- a stamp-sized device that enables credit-card payments via
mobile phones. Valued at $3.25 billion in August, it has more
than 3 million individual and business customers and processes
more than $10 billion in transactions on an annual basis.  Rabois said in the blog that he shouldn’t have continued
the romantic relationship with the co-worker.  “While I have certainly made mistakes, this threat feels
like a shakedown, and I will defend myself to the full extent of
the law,” Rabois wrote.  Square has hired attorney Richard J. Curiale, who didn’t
respond immediately to a phone call seeking comment. Rabois
didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment. The Wall Street
Journal first reported on the allegations.  Job Interview  Rabois said in the blog that the relationship was with
someone he met through friends in 2010. Several months later, he
recommended that the person apply for a job at Square. That
person was hired, never reported directly to him, and the
company didn’t know about the relationship, Rabois wrote.  Rabois said he received a threat last week that he would be
accused in a lawsuit “of some pretty horrible things.” He was
told it would take millions of dollars to “make this go away,
and that my career, my reputation, and my livelihood will be
threatened if Square and I don’t pay up,” he wrote.  Rabois concluded the blog post by saying that he is working
on something new, which he hopes to announce next month.  Rabois has been a prolific angel investor, having backed
more than 35 companies, including YouTube Inc., Yammer Inc.,
Airbnb Inc. and Pinterest Inc., according to his website. He’s
also on the board of review site  Yelp Inc. (YELP) , which went  public 
last year.  PayPal Competition  Chief Financial Officer  Sarah Friar  will become acting COO,
San Francisco-based Square said on Jan. 24. Friar joined the
startup in July after a stint at Salesforce.com Inc. Prior to
that she spent more than a decade in the technology group at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Square was started by Twitter Inc. co-founder Jack Dorsey
in 2009. In December, Square stepped up competition with PayPal
by letting small merchants sell gift cards to shoppers on the
go. The two companies are competing for business in the mobile
payments market, which Juniper Research estimates may top $170
billion in transactions by 2015, up from $60 billion last year.  Starbucks Corp. contributed to the $200 million in
financing in August that gave Square its valuation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  