-- Tougher Limits on Most-Used Pain Pills Backed by Panel
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-01-25T20:28:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/stricter-limits-for-hydrocodone-pain-pills-backed-by-fda-panel.html
Hydrocodone painkillers, the most
popular pharmacy drugs in the U.S., should be placed under
greater restrictions because of the potential for abuse, a
government advisory panel recommended.  The Food and Drug Administration should expand limits on
hydrocodone-combination pills such as Vicodin as well as cough
suppressants containing hydrocodone, the advisory committee
voted 19-10 today at the conclusion of a two-day meeting in
Silver Spring,  Maryland . The FDA, which in 2008 denied a request
by the  Drug Enforcement Administration  for stricter regulation,
must decide whether to follow the panel’s recommendation.  The DEA urged limiting prescriptions to a 90-day supply
instead of the current five refills within six months, and for
stripping dentists, physician assistants and nurse practitioners
of their authority to prescribe the pills. About 131 million
hydrocodone products were dispensed in 2011, more than double
the number for oxycodone pills, which have greater restrictions,
according to an  FDA staff report .  “I’m appalled to see that hydrocodone is the most
prescribed drug in the U.S. and that has to be something very
wrong with our health-care system and society for this to
happen,” said  Maria Suarez-Almazor , a panelist and a professor
of internal medicine at the University of Texas MD Anderson
Cancer Center in Houston, who voted for more restrictions.  Abuse Potential  Hydrocodone combinations, which join the main ingredient
with less potent painkillers such as acetaminophen or ibuprofen,
are considered a Schedule III controlled substance, the third-
highest level on a five-stage scale that takes into account the
potential for addiction. Pure hydrocodone is one class higher at
Schedule II and, as a result, has more restrictions on sales.  “The potential for abuse of hydrocodone-combo products is
comparable with other drugs in Schedule II,” said  William
Cooper , a professor of pediatrics and preventive medicine at
Vanderbilt University in Nashville,  Tennessee , who also voted
for more restrictions.  The proposal today would change the status of hydrocodone
combinations to Schedule II. Those who voted against changing
the schedule status cited the legitimacy of medical needs for
opioids as well as the potential that illicit drug use may rise
if patients have limited access to prescription pain relievers.  The DEA had asked the FDA to recommend reclassifying
hydrocodone-combination products to Schedule II in 2004, a
request the FDA denied in 2008, according to an FDA  document 
released ahead of the two-day meeting. The DEA resubmitted its
request in 2009.  Agency Disagreement  Joseph Rannazzisi, deputy assistant administrator in the
DEA’s office of diversion control, said his agency and the FDA
haven’t been seeing eye-to-eye.  “They don’t have the luxury of seeing what I see,” he
said yesterday at the meeting.  Emergency department visits related to hydrocodone totaled
115,739 in 2010, more than double 2004 admissions, the Substance
Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration said in a July 2
 report .  “This drug has got a hold of this society and it’s killing
us,” Rannazzisi said. “There’s so many prescriptions out there
and I’ll tell you why. The medical community, in my humble
opinion, is not taking this drug seriously.”  Abuse potential is a complex determination, Silvia
Calderon, pharmacology team leader on the FDA’s controlled
substance staff, wrote in a staff report released ahead of the
meeting. Alternatives to reclassifying, such as education
efforts and prescription drug monitoring programs, may be what
is needed to curtail abuse, Calderon wrote.  Zogenix Pill  Panel members and public speakers also questioned whether
changing the drug classification would change the abuse
potential.  “The classification of opioids doesn’t stop misuse,”
Edward Michna, director of the Pain Trials Center at Brigham and
Women’s Hospital in Chestnut Hill,  Massachusetts , said during
the hearing. “Oxycotin is class II and it’s our most misused.”  Emergency department visits related to oxycodone products
totaled 182,748 in 2010, according to the SAMHSA. Michna told
the panel that the FDA invited him to speak.  Greater restrictions on hydrocodone could decrease patient
access and cause a chilling effect on doctors’ willingness to
provide needed hydrocodone, he said.  “It’s all about balance,” Michna said.  A change in rules for hydrocodone-combination products may
benefit some companies, including  Zogenix Inc., (ZGNX)  which is
developing a pure form of hydrocodone that would have to compete
with less controlled substances such as  Abbott Laboratories’ (ABT) 
Vicodin and generic equivalents. A change in drug schedules
would put Zogenix on a more even level with rivals.  Zogenix’s pure hydrocodone painkiller Zohydro failed last
month to win the backing of different FDA advisers who said the
company needed to incorporate more measures into the drug to
deter addicts from crushing the pills to snort them for a
greater high.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  