-- Swan Cites Aussie-England Cricket Feud to Spur Republic Talk
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-01-25T06:06:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/swan-recalls-aussie-england-cricket-feud-to-spur-republic-talk.html
Australian Deputy Prime Minister
 Wayne Swan  used the 80th anniversary of the so-called
“bodyline” cricket series against  England  to call for renewed
debate on his nation’s allegiance to the British monarch.  “The events on the cricket field during the summer of
1932-33, coinciding as they did with the events of the Great
Depression, helped awaken a democratic and egalitarian assertion
of Australian national sovereignty,” Swan wrote in an  op-ed
article  published in  Melbourne ’s The Age newspaper today.
“Reflecting on those events will eventually have another
legacy, too, in hastening the approach of an Australian
republic.”  A referendum to create an Australian head of state and
break the nation’s ties to the British crown failed in 1999 amid
divisions over how a president would be selected and affinity
for the reigning queen. While the ruling  Labor Party  supports a
move to a republic, it maintains the issue isn’t a priority and
is unlikely to be addressed while 86-year-old  Queen Elizabeth II 
remains on the throne.  Swan, the nation’s treasurer, said he wrote the article in
part “to re-energize a discussion” about  Australia  becoming a
republic.  “I, as a lifelong republican, don’t believe in inherited
privileges,” he said in an interview with Australian
Broadcasting Corp. radio in Brisbane today. “We had a very
significant debate in the ‘90s. I want to see a very respectful
conversation about a future Australian republic in the years
ahead. But I don’t think it’s something that’s going to happen
any time soon.”  Targeting Bradman  Bodyline refers to tactics employed by the English cricket
team -- bowling fast, accurate balls at a batsman in the days
before helmets -- to intimidate and restrict the Australians,
specifically targeting star player Don Bradman.  Anger erupted in the southern city of Adelaide in January
1933 when one Australian batsman was hit in the torso and
another in the head, fracturing his skull, according to the
 Cricinfo website . Mounted police were mustered outside the
ground in response to the uproar and concern about a pitch
invasion, it said.  “At its core, Bodyline amounted to a calculated attempt
from the English cricketing establishment to attack the
Australian cricket team,” Swan wrote. “As esteemed cricket
historians Ric Sissons and Brian Stoddart concluded in their
chronicle ‘Cricket and Empire,’ from a British perspective
Bodyline was principally about teaching Australia ‘a lesson in
imperial superiority.’”  England’s Wins  Australia was beaten 3-1 in the 2010-11 Ashes, its first
home series loss to England in 24 years. It had lost the prior
best-of-five contest in the U.K. The sport’s oldest
international rivalry resumes this year with series in both
countries.  Swan’s article appeared the day before  Australia Day , the
national holiday. It marks the 225th anniversary of the First
Fleet of 11 convict ships from Britain and raising of the  Union
Jack  at Sydney Cove by commander Captain Arthur Phillip.  The Australian government is due to call an election later
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  