-- Swedish Krona Hits 15-Month High Against Dollar: Stockholm Mover
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-01-25T12:26:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/swedish-krona-hits-15-month-high-against-dollar-stockholm-mover.html
Sweden ’s krona strengthened to a 15-
month high against the U.S. dollar after Riksbank’s First Deputy
Governor Kerstin af Jochnick said the central bank will stay
vigilant on household debt when setting interest rates.  The krona rose as much as 0.79 percent versus the dollar to
6.4392, the strongest since Oct. 31, 2011, and traded at 6.4490
as of 1:25 p.m. in Stockholm. It gained 0.14 percent against the
euro to 8.6711.  In the absence of a clear framework for macroprudential
policy, the Riksbank “has discussed the risks linked to the
high level of household debt in Sweden” as it “wanted to avoid
the consequences that many other countries have experienced as a
result of high indebtedness and falls in house prices,” af
Jochnick said in a  speech  today. Once macro-prudential policy is
up and running, it will “be in a better position than monetary
policy to manage these risks, as it offers tools that are more
effective than the repo rate for these purposes,” she said.  Sweden should set up a macroprudential council to better
spot risks and prevent future financial crises, a government-
appointed committee recommended on Jan. 23. The council should
be established by law to help cooperation between the Financial
Supervisory Authority and the Riksbank, the committee said.  “Af Jochnick’s comments shows that the Riksbank probably
needs to consider financial stability more in the future, and
gives a less dovish picture, as too many rate cuts could risk
boosting household debt growth too much,” Karl Steiner, a
currency strategist at SEB AB in  Stockholm , said in an e-mailed
response to questions today. “Our conclusion of her speech is
that the recommendations for macro-prudential supervision are
not yet regarded as good enough for the Riksbank to stop taking
risks in regards to financial stability into consideration.”  Swedish politicians such as Finance Minister Anders Borg
are concerned about the currency’s strength and its corrosive
effects on economic growth as exporters are already struggling
to cope with slumping demand from  Europe , the nation’s largest
export market. Borg said this week that the Riksbank’s policy is
propping up the krona and preventing the exchange rate from
helping to sustain an expansion.  Still, Sweden’s central bank has the ammunition it needs to
prevent Swedish krona gains from triggering a deflationary trap,
the Riksbank’s Deputy Governor Karolina Ekholm said in a
Bloomberg interview on Jan. 22.  “We should continue to make sure that we behave, that we
have good public finances and that we have a banking sector
that’s stable -- it’s the confidence in Sweden that’s reflected
in how strong the krona is,” af Jochnick told reporters in
Stockholm today. “We don’t think the krona will strengthen that
much but think the krona will remain at around this level.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  