-- Syria Intelligence Officers Killed by Bomb, Observatory Says
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-01-25T13:07:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/syria-intelligence-officers-killed-by-car-bomb-observatory-says.html
At least eight members of Syrian
military intelligence were killed by a car bomb near an army
building in the southern town of Sa’sa, the Syrian Observatory
for  Human Rights  said.  The attack late yesterday was carried out by the Al-Nusra
Front, an Islamist group that has fought as part of the rebel
movement seeking to overthrow President Bashar al-Assad, the
U.K.-based Observatory, which supports the opposition, said in
an e-mailed statement today.  Al-Nusra, classified as a terrorist group by the U.S., also
killed and injured several Syrian military personnel in a
separate car-bomb attack near a military checkpoint in the same
area, the Observatory said.  Syrian rebels, mostly  Sunni Muslims , have been fighting to
oust Assad since March 2011, in a conflict that has left at
least 60,000 people dead, according to the  United Nations . The
U.S., along with most of its European and Arab allies, has
backed the opposition even as it labeled some of its elements as
terrorists.  Rebel fighters stormed a prison in the northern region of
Idlib, leading to the deaths of at least 10 fighters today,
according to the Observatory. It said army planes bombarded
Idlib as well as the southern town of Busra al-Harir, while
there was heavy fighting in Al Hasaka and Hama provinces, and
six people were killed by shelling in Daraa province in the
south. Al Jazeera television reported that suburbs of Damascus
came under heavy shelling.  Refugee Flows  About 6,400 Syrians have arrived in neighboring  Jordan 
during the past 24 hours, the United Nations refugee agency
reported, according to  Agence France-Presse . There are more than
300,000 refugees in Jordan and hundreds of thousands more in
Turkey, Lebanon and Iraq.  Turkish Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  said this week
that his government has spent $500 million on Syrian refugees
and has received a mere $4.5 million in donations from other
countries to help.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Holland at 
 bholland1@bloomberg.net  