-- U.K. Competition Agency Won’t Probe Bank Checking Accounts
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-01-25T09:40:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/u-k-competition-agency-won-t-investigate-bank-checking-accounts.html
A British competition regulator
won’t seek a full investigation into the country’s 9 billion-
pound ($14.2 billion) market for personal checking accounts
after a review of difficulties faced by customers.  Upcoming changes in the market for so-called current
accounts, including automated account switching and the sale of
branches by  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc , will make it easier for customers to compare
services, the Office of Fair Trading said today.  The industry still needs “significant” changes to tackle
long-standing competition concerns, the regulator said. “Since
the OFT last looked at current accounts in 2008, the major banks
have increased their share of the market, entry by new
competitors remains infrequent and consumers still only rarely
switch to an alternative provider.”  The decision by the London-based watchdog prevents the
market from being referred to the U.K. Competition Commission
for an in-depth probe, a development that could have led to a
drawn-out legal fight and new rules for banks.  The OFT said there have been improvements to the accounts,
including a decrease in unauthorized overdraft charges between
2007 and 2011 that have saved customers as much as 928 million
pounds a year. The structure for such charges is still too
complex, it said, and the market is hampered by low innovation
and “customer apathy in the face of unclear costs.”  Lacking Confidence  “Customers still find it difficult to assess which account
offers the best deal and lack confidence that they can switch
accounts easily,” Clive Maxwell, the OFT’s chief executive
officer, said in a statement. “This prevents them from driving
effective competition between providers.”  The British Bankers’ Association, a trade group, said the
system for allowing customers to switch banks would start in
September, and that it would work with the OFT to implement new
changes to improve services for customers.  “The banking industry is committed to modernizing and
improving current accounts so that customers get the best
possible service,” Anthony Browne, the trade group’s chief
executive officer, said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  