-- U.K. Seen Falling Back Into Contraction as Olympic Boost Unwinds
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-01-25T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/u-k-seen-falling-back-into-contraction-as-olympic-boost-unwinds.html
Britain’s economy probably shrank in
the fourth quarter as a boost from the 2012  Olympic Games  during 
the summer unwound, leaving the country on the brink of an
unprecedented triple-dip recession.  Gross domestic product  dropped 0.1 percent from the
previous three months, according to the median of 38 estimates
in a  Bloomberg News survey . The  Office for National Statistics 
will publish the data at 9:30 a.m. in  London .  Britain resumed growth in the third quarter, though the
recovery remains under pressure from government spending cuts
and  inflation  that’s outpacing wage increases. With the Bank of
England forecasting a “slow” recovery, Governor  Mervyn King 
said this week that policy makers will provide more stimulus to
shore up growth if needed.  “The underlying performance of the economy is pretty slack
at the moment,” said  Vicky Redwood , chief U.K. economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. in London. “A triple dip is certainly
possible. We think the Bank of England will respond eventually,
but it will be close run thing whether it will be next month.”  The economy’s performance in the fourth quarter was also
affected by maintenance shutdowns of oil and gas platforms in
the  North Sea . Estimates in the  Bloomberg GDP survey  ranged from
a contraction of 0.5 percent to growth of 0.1 percent. Only
three economists in the poll forecast an increase in GDP.  From a  year earlier , the U.K. economy probably grew 0.2
percent, according to a separate Bloomberg  survey .  Repeat Recession  The National Institute of Economic and Social Research has
estimated that the economy shrank 0.3 percent in the fourth
quarter. Excluding one-time factors, it says underlying growth
is “flat.” Economists commonly define a recession as two
consecutive quarters of declining economic output and a
contraction in the fourth and first quarters would be the third
slump since GDP reached its peak at the start of 2008.  Britain has not had a triple-dip recession in peace time
since at least the start of Niesr’s data in 1920, according to
 Simon Kirby , an economist at the institute in London.  Britain is the first Group of Seven nation to report GDP
data for the fourth quarter. U.S. growth probably slowed to a
1.5 percent annual rate from 3.1 percent in the third quarter,
according to a survey of economists published on Jan. 10. The
Commerce Department will publish the data on Jan. 30. The
European Union’s statistics office will publish figures for the
 17-nation euro area  on Feb. 14.  Austerity Drag  Continued weakness in the euro area, Britain’s biggest
trading partner, remains a drag on the U.K. recovery, as does
the government’s austerity program. Still, Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  said yesterday there can be no letup.  “Credibility is very hard won and easily lost and it would
be a huge mistake to put that at risk,” Osborne said at the
World Economic Forum annual meeting in Davos,  Switzerland .  The  Bank of England ’s Monetary Policy Committee will have
new economic and inflation forecasts at its meeting next month.
It paused its  bond-buying program  in November at 375 billion
pounds ($592 billion).  Economists in a Bloomberg survey published on Jan. 17 see
the economy growing 0.2 percent this quarter. Reports this month
showed services shrank for the first time in two years in
December and a construction index fell to a six-month low. A
gauge of factory output rose to a 15-month high.  Cold weather in the past week affecting most of Britain
threatens to hurt retail sales and construction, adding to the
one-time factors that have led to what King has called a “zig-
zag pattern” of output.  “Against headwinds, the underlying performance of the
economy is doing OK,” said  Alan Clarke , an economist at
Scotiabank in London. Still, “it’s a pretty damning state of
affairs if an outage at an oil rig or a bit of snow makes the
difference between a negative and positive GDP result.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  