-- U.K. Seeks Views on Pension-Deficit Calculation Rules
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-01-25T13:04:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/u-k-seeks-views-on-pension-deficit-calculation-rules.html
The U.K. government asked for
industry views on changing the rules about how companies running
pension funds that guarantee a fixed payout should calculate
whether they’re in deficit.  So-called defined-benefit plans have been closing in the
U.K. as increasing longevity and low gilt yields have made them
unaffordable. The government is considering whether companies
should be able to “smooth” their valuations over long periods,
rather than using spot prices. Chancellor of the Exchequer
George Osborne said in December the government was concerned
that the valuation rules deterred investment.  Ministers are also consulting on whether the Pensions
Regulator should judge whether companies are able to bring
pension plans out of deficit.  “We need to know whether the current regulatory framework
is sufficiently flexible for employers with defined-benefit
pensions or whether there is more we could reasonably do,”
Pensions Minister Steve Webb said in a statement published in
London today.  The call for testimony on the regulator closes on Feb. 21,
and for that on smoothing valuations on March 7.  The defined-benefit pension deficit decreased to 244.7
billion pounds ($387 billion) at the end of last month from
252.2 billion pounds in November, according to  data published by
the Pension Protection Fund  on Jan. 8. The PPF was established
to pay compensation to members of such plans in an event of
insolvency.  Gilt Yields  Thirty-year gilts fell, pushing yields up seven basis
points to 3.33 percent today, the most since Jan. 4, on
speculation that any change in regulations will reduce demand
for long-dated bonds. The yield on the inflation-protected bond
maturing in 2042 was little changed at minus 0.10 percent.  Further sell-offs in long-maturity government bonds may be
limited, said Sam Hill, a fixed-income strategist at Royal Bank
of Canada in London.  “The nature of this consultation is presented pretty much
in terms of tweaks to the existing pension-scheme valuation
framework rather than wholesale change,” Hill wrote in an e-
mailed note. “This looks only to be about evolution of policy
rather than the revolution of policy. In this sense the risks
posed to demand for long-dated fixed income assets appear to be
much more limited than initially thought.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  