-- U.K. Music Tutor Gets More Jail Time for Child Sex Abuse
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-01-25T18:15:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/u-k-music-tutor-gets-more-jail-time-for-child-sex-abuse.html
British police said an “eminent”
music tutor who was jailed in 2010 for sexually abusing girls
during lessons in his home was sentenced to three more years
behind bars after evidence of more attacks came to light.  Michael Crombie’s sentence was extended today by Judge
Wendy Joseph in London after he pleaded guilty to sexually
assaulting 16 girls between 1964 and 2007, the  Metropolitan
Police Service  said today in a statement. The 75-year-old was
scheduled to be released from prison in May after serving a
reduced sentence on his prior conviction for abusing nine other
girls between 1992 and 2002.  Crombie used his “position of trust to abuse children who
had been placed into his care for music tuition,” Caroline
Jackson, a detective inspector, said in the statement. “He was
a prolific offender who committed unimaginable abuse.”  The sentence comes as police across Britain are ramping up
investigations into historical sex-abuse claims after
revelations the late British Broadcasting Corp. television star
Jimmy Savile committed more than 200 offenses over decades
without being caught. A probe triggered by the scandal has
increased abuse reporting and resulted in 10 arrests of people
in Savile’s industry, including U.K. singer Gary Glitter and
former BBC disc jockey Dave Lee Travis.  In the 2010 case, Crombie was also convicted on eight
counts of making and possessing indecent images of children. He
was given a seven-year sentence, which was reduced by half on
appeal, the Met said.  As with the Savile scandal, publicity from the original
Crombie case led to many more victims, including girls he taught
at schools, coming forward, police said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  