-- U.K. Clearinghouses Win Reprieve While FSA Applies Global Rules
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-01-25T17:23:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/u-k-clearinghouses-win-reprieve-while-fsa-applies-global-rules.html
U.K.-based clearinghouses have been
provisionally declared by regulators as compliant with
international rules, limiting the amount of capital banks must
hold against their trades routed through them.  The U.K. Financial Services Authority said that all
clearinghouses it regulates will be considered to be in
compliance with the rules, which concern their ability to
withstand crises, for a transitional period ending Dec. 31. The
move buys time for regulators to oversee implementation of the
measures.  The FSA is “working towards” applying the rules, the
regulator said. The temporary clearance applies to “all
recognized clearinghouses based in the U.K. and prudentially
supervised” by the country’s authorities, it said. The
transitional period can be extended.  Global regulators in the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  said last year that an amount equal to 2 percent of
a bank’s trades through clearinghouses should be added to the
risk-weighted assets used to determine the lender’s total
capital requirements. The 2 percent rule will apply to trades
with clearinghouses that meet international standards on
robustness, the Basel group said.  Transactions that take place with clearers that don’t meet
the standards would face tougher capital rules, linked to the
platform’s credit rating. The measures are scheduled to take
effect this month.  The standards for clearinghouses were drawn up by
international regulators and  published  last year.  Clearinghouses such as LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. and Deutsche
Boerse AG’s Eurex Clearing operate as central counterparties for
every buy and sell order executed by their members, who post
collateral, reducing the threat from a trader’s default.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  