-- U.K. Stocks Advance; FTSE 100 Posts Weekly Gain
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2013-01-25T17:06:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/u-k-stocks-are-little-changed-as-evraz-shares-retreat.html
U.K. stocks  advanced to a 4 1/2-year
high, posting a fourth straight weekly gain, as a report showed
German business confidence increased, outweighing a bigger-than-
forecast contraction by Britain’s economy.  EasyJet Plc (EZJ) , Europe’s second-largest discount carrier,
advanced 5.2 percent.  International Consolidated Airlines Group
SA (IAG)  rose 2.1 percent after JPMorgan Chase & Co. raised its
recommendation on the shares. Evraz Plc slid 2.3 percent after
Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit lowered its
recommendation on the stock. BHP Billiton Ltd. slipped 1.6
percent for the biggest drag on the  FTSE 100 Index. (UKX)   The benchmark FTSE 100 gained 19.54 points, or 0.3 percent,
to 6,284.45 at the close in  London , extending its advance this
week to 2.1 percent. The volume of shares changing hands on the
equity benchmark was 3.4 percent greater than the average of the
last 30 days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
broader FTSE All-Share Index also added 0.3 percent today, while
Ireland’s ISEQ Index rose 0.6 percent.  “It’s the euro zone, U.S. and Asia that really set the
tempo for the stock market,” said Jacques Porta, who helps
manage $627 million at Ofi Patrimoine in Paris. “In Germany the
ZEW is good news. The countries in northern  Europe  fare better
than those of southern Europe.”  Gross domestic product shrank by 0.3 percent in the final
three months of 2012, according to the Office for National
Statistics. The  median economist estimate  had called for GDP to
contract by 0.1 percent. Economists define a recession as two
consecutive quarters of declining economic output.  Triple Dip  The U.K.’s economy returned to  growth  in the third quarter
of 2012 as the nation’s statisticians accounted for  ticket sales 
for London’s Olympic Games in the three months through
September. The Bank of England forecasts a slow recovery and
Governor Mervyn King has said that policy makers will provide
more stimulus to sustain growth if needed.  Britain has not had a triple-dip recession during peace
time since at least 1920, according to data compiled by the
National Institute of Economic and Social Research.  In  Germany , a report showed that business confidence rose
for a third month in January. The Ifo institute’s  business-
climate index , based on a survey of 7,000 executives, climbed to
104.2 in January from 102.4 in December. That was the highest
since June. Economists had predicted the gauge would rise to
103, according to the  median forecast  in a Bloomberg survey.  Repaying LTRO  The European Central Bank said financial institutions will
repay 137 billion euros ($184 billion) of its three-year loans
on Jan. 30, the earliest available opportunity to return the
funds. That compared with the median forecast of 84 billion
euros in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  EasyJet climbed 5.2 percent to 945 pence. UBS AG upgraded
the stock to buy from neutral, saying that the airline’s first-
quarter results led the brokerage to raise its earnings-per-
share forecasts for 2013 and 2014. EasyJet’s shares jumped 5.1
percent yesterday after the company said sales increased in the
three months through December.  IAG rose 2.1 percent to 223 pence. The stock was upgraded
to overweight from neutral at JPMorgan, meaning that investors
should buy the shares. The brokerage said it expects IAG to
climb once its Iberia unit reaches an agreement with unions.  Iberia’s ground staff, cabin crew and pilots last month
agreed to negotiate the terms of a restructuring plan.  Construction Market  Evraz (EVR)  lost 2.3 percent to 300 pence. The brokerage cut its
recommendation on the steel maker to underweight from buy,
citing  Russia ’s slowing construction market.  “We are cautious on Russian steel in 2013 with regard to
both volumes and prices on the back of the decelerating domestic
economy,” analyst Evgeny Olkhovich wrote in a note.  BHP Billiton, the world’s largest mining company, slipped
1.6 percent to 2,104 pence. Rio Tinto Group, the second-biggest
mining company, also lost 1.6 percent to 3,518 pence. Eurasian
Natural Resources Corp., a producer of ferro alloys and iron ore
in Kazakhstan, slid 2.4 percent to 331.1 pence. A gauge of
mining companies posted the biggest decline of the 19 industry
groups in the benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Avocet Mining Plc (AVM)  tumbled 8.9 percent to 59 pence. The
company said fourth-quarter gold output from its Inata mine in
Burkina Faso fell 33 percent.  RusPetro Plc (RPO)  soared 5.6 percent to 49.5 pence after the
producer of oil in Siberia said it will strengthen its finances.
The company said it will sell secured notes to repay Sberbank
loans and fund field development.  Polymetal International Plc (POLY)  gained 2.4 percent to 1,116
pence after UBS raised the stock to buy from neutral.
Billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov ’s Onexim Holdings Ltd. agreed to
sell its stake in Polyus Gold International Ltd., said three
people with knowledge of the plan on Jan. 24. Polyus may merge
with Polymetal after the sale, according to Uralsib Capital.  “We think that now is the right moment to use weakness in
the stock price as the potential merger with Polyus Gold may be
a strong driver,” the analysts wrote in a note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  