-- U.S. Seeks Bread for Outgunned Syrians Battling Regime
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-01-25T21:32:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/u-s-seeks-bread-for-outgunned-syrians-battling-regime.html
The U.S. plans to announce
“additional, significant” humanitarian funding for Syrians
during an international donors’ conference next week in  Kuwait ,
the State Department said today in a statement.  The new aid includes $10 million for flour to help
alleviate the critical shortage of bread in Aleppo, which before
the fighting was  Syria ’s most-populous city. The money will buy
enough flour to provide bread for approximately 210,000 people
each day for the next five months, according to the statement.  Syrian rebels, mostly  Sunni Muslims , have been fighting to
oust President Bashar al-Assad since March 2011 in a conflict
that, according to the  United Nations , has left at least 60,000
people dead. Along with winter weather, shortages of fuel and
food have increased the hardships for Syrians in cities torn by
the fighting .  “Many bakeries have had to close down because the Assad
regime has cut off flour and fuel,” according to the statement.
“The United States recognizes bread as a mainstay of Syrian
daily life, and this new program is focused on getting 50
bakeries back up and running to provide life-saving food to the
Syrian people.”  The bombing of a bakery in Helfeya by government warplanes
on Dec. 24 killed 94 people, according to opposition groups.  Counting the $10 million, the  United States  has providing
$220 million in aid for Syrians, the State Department said. The
U.S. has supplied only humanitarian aid for Syrians and non-
lethal equipment for opposition fighters, who have relied on
Persian Gulf supporters for outside supplies of weapons.  Aid Conferences  The U.S. is working with the Syrian Opposition Council, the
umbrella opposition group, as well as with international and
Syrian humanitarian organizations to get food aid and medical
supplies to those in need.  France  is holding an international meeting Jan. 28 of
Syrian opposition leaders and representatives from some 50
nations and organizations. That meeting is schedule to be
followed by a United Nations-backed donors’ conference in Kuwait
Jan. 30 to increase humanitarian support for Syrians.  Hundreds of thousands of Syrians have been displaced within
their country by the fighting and, by UN count, more than
612,000 refugees have fled to neighboring nations, including
about 160,000 in  Turkey  and more than 150,000 in  Jordan .  The UN refugee agency  said  today that more than 30,000
refugees arriving at Za’atri camp in Jordan since Jan. 1. This
compares to some 16,400 in December, 13,000 in November and
10,000 in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  