-- U.S. Court Ruling Threatens Consumer Bureau Decisions
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-01-26T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/u-s-court-ruling-threatens-consumer-bureau-decisions.html
A federal court ruling limiting
presidential appointment power could jeopardize a large swath of
the work undertaken by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
in the last year.  Although a court would still have to decide on the
appointment of Richard Cordray, the agency’s first director, the
ruling by the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  Washington  raises the
possibility that regulations and enforcement actions of the new
agency could be overturned, according to regulatory lawyers.  “This is very bad news for the bureau, there is no way to
slice it any other way,”  Deepak Gupta , a former top lawyer at
the CFPB, said in an interview. “There is little question that
this applies to the Cordray appointment.”  Among the bureau’s achievements under Cordray are new
consumer protections on international money transfers and rules
on mortgage underwriting and servicing. The bureau also reached
settlements with credit card companies, including Riverwoods,
Illinois-based  Discover Financial Services (DFS)  and McLean, Virginia-
based  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) , for deceptive marketing
practices.  The CFPB said its work is not affected by the ruling on the
NLRB appointments.  “The bureau is not a party in the case decided today, and
the court’s ruling has no direct effect on the bureau,” CFPB
spokeswoman Moira Vahey said in a statement yesterday. ‘ Going
forward, we will continue our essential work to protect American
consumers.’’  President  Barack Obama  bypassed Republican opposition to
Cordray’s nomination in the  U.S. Senate  by installing him -- and
three officials of the  National Labor Relations Board  -- through
a so-called recess appointment in January 2012. That move put
Cordray in the job through the end of 2013.  Full Term  Obama nominated Cordray to a full five-year term on Jan.
24.  Now that a federal appeals court has invalidated the labor
appointments, saying they did not occur during an official
recess, a similar ruling against CFPB could alter the landscape
of consumer finance regulation. For the industry, the decision
creates uncertainty at a time when it is digesting a raft of new
rules that are aimed at the causes of the 2008 financial crisis.  “We’re not gloating here,”  Richard Hunt , president of the
Consumer Bankers Association, said in an interview. “It creates
chaos in the marketplace. But we knew this was possible when the
president made this controversial appointment.”  The CFPB, created by the 2010 Dodd-Frank law that
overhauled U.S. oversight of financial services, is intended to
protect consumers from abusive practices. Covering both banks
and non-bank firms like payday lenders and debt collectors, the
agency has also created a system for resolving consumer
complaints.  Dodd-Frank Timeline  Dodd-Frank created a timeline for the bureau to assume its
powers. It assumed powers over banks with assets above $10
billion on July 21, 2011 but the law only permitted its other
powers, such as supervision of non-banks, once its first
director was confirmed by the Senate.  Senate Republicans, using rules that let the minority block
nominations, closed ranks to oppose any nominee in 2011 unless
the Obama administration agreed to create a commission to run
the CFPB and subject its budget, now linked to the  Federal
Reserve , to congressional appropriations.  Obama tried to outflank Republicans by using a recess
appointment, the constitutional power to install officials while
the Senate is in recess. The court yesterday said that his move
was, in the case of the labor officials, “constitutionally
invalid” because the Senate was not officially in recess at the
time.  Judge’s Ruling  “Considering the text, history and structure of the
Constitution, these appointments were invalid from their
inception,” U.S. Circuit Judge David Sentelle wrote. The ruling
today is the first substantive decision by a federal appeals
court on several challenges to the president’s naming of the
NLRB members on Jan. 4, 2012.  Raymond Natter, a partner with Barnett Sivon & Natter P.C.
in Washington said a company can now go to court and seek a
“summary judgment motion” overturning the Cordray appointment
and his actions on the basis of the decision in the labor case.
Natter’s firm represents financial services companies.  “It means rules would have to be reissued,” Natter said
in an interview. “Proposals would have to be re-proposed.
Enforcement actions could be reversed.”  One possible candidate for that role, Natter said, is State
National Bank of Big Spring,  Texas , which in June filed a
lawsuit in federal court in Washington. It charged that the CFPB
is unconstitutional because Congress does not appropriate its
budget and because the president has a limited ability to remove
its director.  Supreme Court  C. Boyden Gray, one of the attorneys who helped bring the
case, said the labor case still had a ways to go.  “This is not the final word,” Gray, who served as legal
counsel to President  George H.W. Bush  from 1989 to 1993. “It
will go to the  Supreme Court .”  Gray called today’s ruling “helpful” in the context of
his lawsuit, though not necessarily decisive. “We’re
challenging the entire structure of the CFPB. We’re challenging
its ability to do everything that it’s doing,” he said.  The case brought by Gray faces other hurdles. The Obama
administration has argued that the Texas bank has no standing to
bring the case because it has not been affected by CFPB actions.  The question of what is left of the CFPB’s work over the
last year could become the subject of complicated parsing by the
courts, Natter and Gupta said. One legal doctrine holds that the
actions of invalid appointees can be preserved to avoid chaos in
a regulated market.  Cordray Defense  Previous regulatory action would probably survive under
that doctrine while companies facing current enforcement action
could raise Cordray’s status as a defense.  “This really throws a wrench into pending enforcement
proceedings,” Gupta, now a partner with Gupta Beck PLLC in
Washington, said.  Congressional Republicans immediately seized on the labor
case as a reason why Cordray’s appointment was not legal.  “This decision now casts serious doubt on whether the
president’s ‘recess’ appointment of  Richard Cordray  to the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which the President
announced at the same time, is constitutional,” Senate Minority
Leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky , said in an e-mailed
statement.  Mark Calabria, a former Senate Republican staffer, said the
NLRB would probably have the ripple effect of stalling any
progress Cordray makes in the Senate after his renomination.
They would also embolden Republicans in their quest to change
the law.  Process Questioned  “How can you have a confirmation process if a court has
said he’s been unconstitutionally appointed?” Calabria,
director of financial regulation studies at the  Cato Institute 
in Washington, said in an interview.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said the ruling
affects only the NLRB case and “has no bearing on” the
president’s recess appointment of Cordray.  He said the ruling was “novel and unprecedented” and
contradicts 150 years of practices by Democratic and Republican
administrations. “The court decided a case brought by a
specific company and the decision applies to that case. It does
not apply more broadly than that.”  The decision also comes at a moment of leadership change at
the upper levels of CFPB. Raj Date, the bureau’s deputy
director, is scheduled to leave on Jan. 31. No replacement has
been named.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  