-- U.S. Corporate Credit Swaps Fall as ECB Reports Loan Repayments
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s   a n d   M a d h u r a   K a r n i k
-- 2013-01-25T22:42:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/u-s-corporate-credit-swaps-fall-as-ecb-reports-loan-repayments.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk declined to the lowest in about four months after the
 European Central Bank  said lenders will repay more loans than
forecast and as earnings in the U.S. beat estimates.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased
1.7 basis points to a mid-price of 84.9 basis points at 5:05
p.m. in  New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s the lowest since Sept. 14, when the measure reached 83.1.  “There was a little bit of this positive news out of the
European banking system,”  David Brown , a portfolio manager who
helps oversee $96 billion of fixed-income assets at  Neuberger
Berman  in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview. “People
continue to reduce that tail risk.”  Indications that the euro region’s debt crisis is abating
may reduce investor concern that the turmoil will infect balance
sheets and hamper companies’ ability to repay obligations.
Financial institutions will return 137.2 billion euros ($184.4
billion) on Jan. 30, the first opportunity for early repayment
of the initial three-year loan, the Frankfurt-based ECB said in
a statement today. That compares with the median forecast of 84
billion euros in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , the world’s largest consumer-products
maker, said net income more than doubled to $4.06 billion, or
$1.39 a share, in its second quarter, which ended Dec. 31, from
$1.69 billion, or 57 cents, a year earlier. Analysts projected
$1.11, the average of 22 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Easing Anxiety  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves. The contracts pay the buyer face value if a
borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the
defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Investor anxiety dropped this month with  Standard & Poor’s 
so-called distress ratio decreasing to 8.1 percent as of Jan.
15, from 9.7 percent in December as spreads eased, the ratings
company said in a statement. The ratio is a measure of the
number of distressed securities, those yielding at least 10
percentage points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, divided
by the total number of speculative-grade issues.  While relative yields on high-grade corporate debt have
tightened this month, the sector’s been outpaced by other asset
classes amid low issuance as companies report earnings, Brown
said.  ‘Nice Run’  The  S&P 500 Index (SPX) , a benchmark for U.S. stocks, has climbed
more than 5 percent this year, while the extra yield investors
demand to hold investment-grade bonds instead of similar
maturity government debt narrowed six basis points to 147 basis
points yesterday, or 1.47 percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Index data show.  “The equity markets have had a nice run, other risky
assets have had a nice run, and investment-grade credit has not
done a heck of a lot over this month,” Brown said. “There was
maybe a little room for a catch-up.”  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index fell 5.7 basis points to 430.6 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show. The average relative yield on junk-rated
debt tightened 8 basis points to 4.61 percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
Madhura Karnik in New York at 
 mkarnik@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  