-- U.S. to Cap LNG Exports to Boost Economy, Shell’s Voser Says
-- B y   W i l l   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-01-25T13:33:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/u-s-will-cap-lng-shipments-to-boost-economy-shell-s-voser-says.html
The U.S. won’t rival Qatar and
Australia as the world’s largest liquefied natural gas exporter
as it keeps fuel at home to drive an industrial renaissance,
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  Chief Executive Officer Peter Voser said.  The U.S. may export 50 metric million tons a year of LNG by
the end of the decade, or about 10 percent of the projected
world market, Voser said today in a Bloomberg TV interview in
Davos, Switzerland. That’s below the 120 million tons a year he
said is predicted by some forecasters and less than Qatar’s
current annual production of 77 million tons. Australia is
projected to pass Qatar by the end of the decade.  “Exports will happen,” said Voser, 54, whose company is
the world’s largest LNG supplier. “But I hope that the U.S.
will actually keep most of the gas back because it will help
them to industrialize parts of the U.S. more.”  Drilling gas from shale rock formations has seen prices
plunge, offering the world’s largest economy cheaper energy than
competitors in Europe and Asia. U.S. export terminals would
allow energy companies to profit from price differences between
North America, Asia and Europe.  The U.S. Energy Department last month released a study,
which promoted LNG exports. The report said even unfettered
exports would likely be a net positive for the U.S., providing
as much as $30 billion in trade revenue.  Optimistic Pledge  Companies led by  Cheniere Energy Inc. (LNG)  are seeking
permission to ship LNG to customers not covered by U.S.  free
trade agreements , which for example don’t include Japan, the
world’s largest consumer of LNG. Shell, which has held exclusive
talks to take a stake in the Freeport LNG project, in November
said pledges to invest as much as $450 billion in U.S. LNG
export projects are “a little bit optimistic.”  An LNG export terminal will probably be one of several ways
Shell uses North American gas, alongside projects to turn gas
into liquid fuel such as diesel to power trucks and ships and
feed chemicals plants, Voser said.  “We are looking at various options at the moment and there
is a high possibility that we build our own” terminal, Voser
said. “The next 12 months on this are quite crucial.”  Elsewhere in the world, Shell is optimistic about prospects
for shale gas production in China and Ukraine. The company
signed a production agreement with the eastern European country
yesterday.  “In China, it is very encouraging what we find,” Voser
said. Shell is exploring for shale gas with China National
Petroleum Corp. “If you just look at the reserves it could
outnumber the U.S.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Will Kennedy in London at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  