-- UCI Wants to Suspend Own Probe Into Armstrong Affair
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-01-25T16:06:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/uci-wants-to-suspend-own-probe-into-armstrong-affair.html
The  International Cycling Union 
wants to suspend an independent commission it set up three
months ago to look into the Lance Armstrong doping case as the
governing body seeks to combine the probe with those of other
sports.  At the panel’s first procedural hearing in London today,
the governing body, known by its French acronym UCI, said
amnesty can’t be given to witnesses who come forward with
evidence without changes to the code of the  World Anti-Doping
Agency , or WADA.  Instead, UCI lawyer Ian Mill said the group wants to
establish a truth and reconciliation commission with WADA to
cover other sports and “not be limited to cycling alone.”
Funding two probes would be “too costly,” he added.  The commission met for 1 hour and 45 minutes today and
after a break, chairman Philip Otton said the hearing was
postponed until Jan. 31 to allow WADA, the U.S. Anti-Doping
Agency and the UCI to agree on an amnesty process.  “A truth and reconciliation process is the best way
forward for cycling,” UCI president Pat McQuaid told reporters
after the adjournment.  Otton said he was postponing the hearing “with
considerable reluctance.” He added that the commission
“recognizes the immense public interest in determining why and
how  Lance Armstrong  and the U.S. Postal Service Team were able
to engage, as recently publicly admitted, in systematic doping
without detection or sanction.”  ‘Very Expensive’  When asked about the cost of the independent probe, McQuaid
said, “Very expensive. For the resources of the UCI, it is
quite a lot,” without disclosing more details. The cost of a
truth and reconciliation process would be shared by UCI and
WADA, he added.  In August, USADA stripped Armstrong of his seven Tour de
France titles and banned the American for life for using
prohibited substances after he opted not to contest doping
charges in arbitration. USADA’s stand was upheld in October by
the UCI.  Leadership of the UCI was criticized in the aftermath of
the Armstrong affair for failing to act sooner. It set up the
independent probe in October to investigate, among other things,
the relationship between Armstrong and the UCI.  The independent commission, which has three panel members
including 11-time Paralympic gold medalist Tanni Grey-Thompson
of Britain, had initially aimed to hold hearings in April, and
publish a report in June.  Knock Down  The UCI today said it didn’t expect a truth and
reconciliation process to be ready until at least the middle of
the year. That was met with an angry response from commission
members.  “You are trying to knock us down,” commission member
Malcolm Holmes told Mill.  “We are not the bad guys here,” Mill replied. “We have a
finite amount of money available to us. We are not a football
body.”  Mill later apologized to the commission for raising his
voice.  Grey-Thompson, who is also a member of the U.K. House of
Lords, said she was “amazed that we have had absolutely no
documents” from the UCI, and that she had only agreed to join
the commission on the premise the governing body would
cooperate.  Missing Documents  Mills, who repeatedly reminded the commission the UCI was
funding the inquiry, later on said the UCI would provide the
commission with the necessary documents today.  Following years of denial, Armstrong last week told
American talk show host  Oprah Winfrey  he’d cheated by using
drugs and probably forced other riders to follow his lead.  Last week, WADA, USADA and newly formed pressure group
 Change Cycling Now , whose members include three-time Tour de
France winner  Greg LeMond , withdrew from the commission over the
UCI’s initial refusal to grant witnesses amnesty.  In a statement on Jan. 16, the UCI said that any amnesty
“would have limited effect” as the  International Olympic
Committee , national anti-doping authorities, sponsors and
criminal authorities could pursue actions against athletes
admitting to doping.  Today, it said it agreed on a truth and reconciliation
process in cooperation with WADA.  Mill also assured the commission that no disciplinary
action would be taken against people who give evidence against
the UCI.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in  London  at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  