-- Ugly Betty’s Mom; Peter Brook’s ‘The Suit’: Jeremy Gerard
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2013-01-26T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/ugly-betty-s-mom-peter-brook-s-the-suit-jeremy-gerard.html
Four actors, three musicians and
some brightly colored chairs are all that the incomparable
director Peter Brook needs to tell the story of “The Suit,” in
a short run at the  Brooklyn Academy of Music .  In 85 fleeting minutes his Paris-based troupe combines a
morality tale about forgiveness with an intimate glimpse of life
under apartheid.  The story concerns Philomen, who earns a meager income as
secretary to a lawyer, and his wife, Matilda.  Discovering her in bed with another man, Philomen punishes
Matilda by making the lover’s left-behind suit an honored guest
she must feed and entertain.  Brook’s productions have helped define BAM, from the
magisterial (“The Mahabharata”) to exquisite miniatures like
“The Suit.”  Here, the dawn-to-dusk brutality of life in a South Africa
shantytown is revealed in simple strokes: Philomen’s urgency as
he waits to use a toilet shared by 30 neighbors; Matilda singing
“Strange Fruit,”  Billie Holiday ’s classic about a lynching.  The open staging sometimes works against the claustrophobia
of such society. But the larger message -- never delay
forgiveness -- is written indelibly on the faces of William
Nadylam’s suave, heartbroken Philomen and Nonhlanhla Kheswa’s
crushed Matilda.  Through Feb. 2 at the BAM Harvey Theater, 651 Fulton St.,
Information: +1-718-636-4100;  http://www.bam.org . Rating: *****  Desperate Times  America Ferrera, the star of TV’s “ Ugly Betty ” and such
good films as “ Real Women Have Curves ,” plays a desperate
single mother driven to extreme behavior in “Bethany,” a new
drama at City Center presented by the  Women’s Project .  She plays Crystal, whose young daughter has been placed in
foster care after they were found sleeping in a car.  Now Crystal has a new job, selling Saturn cars, but as yet
no income. So she squats in a foreclosed house already inhabited
by a delusional ex-soldier (Tobias Segal); she’s determined to
look respectable enough to satisfy the social worker (Myra
Lucretia Taylor) who will decide when she can get Bethany back.  Ferrera is engaging as a smart woman who, by force of
circumstance, makes indefensible choices that include a
relationship with a prospective buyer posing as a motivational
speaker (Ken Marks, exceptional as a sinister charmer).  Laura Marks’s discomfiting play, somewhat crudely staged by
Gaye Taylor Upchurch, effectively notches up the suspense and
offers a few surprises, not all of them credible.  Through Feb. 17 at  New York  City Center Stage II, 131 W.
55th St. Information: +1-212-581-1212;
 http://www.nycitycenter.org . Rating: ***  Total Darkness  In “Not By Bread Alone,” 11 actors stand at long tables
kneading dough and telling their stories. Behind them, plain
wooden shelves adorned with loaves suggest your neighborhood Le
Pain Quotidien.  In one extraordinary scene during the 80-minute
presentation at New York University’s Skirball Center, the stage
transmutes into a kind of circus. An actor on stilts walks a
steady line while others perch at various levels and music plays
in a kind of pinball chaos.  Tel Aviv  The performers are members of the Tel Aviv-based  Nalaga’at
Theater . All of them are deaf and blind; many are mute as well.
Directed by Adina Tal, they take cues from the vibration of a
drum or the hand of an aid or colleague.  Their stories are compelling. How could they not be?  Some describe their memory of hearing or seeing, others of
lacking even that. Before the performance, theatergoers have the
option of dining at Blackout, a pop-up restaurant with food by
 Danny Meyer  in which you dine in total darkness, served by a
blind wait staff. I found the experience exhilarating; my wife
found it terrifying.  During the show I thought, “If this were a Fellini film
with actors portraying these people, it would be hailed as a
work of art.”  Debate over whether “Not By Bread Alone” is “theater”
seems silly. I didn’t need to categorize the experience to be
quietly moved by it.  Through Feb. 3 at NYU-Skirball Center, 566 LaGuardia
Place. Information: +1-212-352-3101;  http://www.nyuskirball.org .
Rating: ***1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include New York  weekend  and  Lewis Lapham 
on books.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 