-- Hungary Warns of Terror Threat on Budapest-Bamako Race
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-01-25T14:02:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/hungary-warns-of-terror-threat-on-budapest-bamako-race.html
Hungary’s anti-terror agency urged
organizers to cancel the annual Budapest-Bamako car rally even
after the  Mali  capital was abandoned as the race’s destination,
citing fighting in the region and the threat of kidnappings.  Organizers changed the rally’s finish line to Bissau, the
capital of Guinea-Bissau. Still, participants risk being
“kidnapped or may have to pay with their lives for their
irresponsible decision” to join the race, the  Anti-Terrorism
Center  in Budapest said in a statement, MTI state news service
reported today.  The 16-day race, which organizers describe as a
“dangerous, minimal-assistance adventure” where “everything
is uncertain,” will take participants through an 8,682-
kilometer (5,396 miles) trek through  Morocco , Western Sahara,
Mauritania and  Senegal  before reaching Bissau on Feb. 14,
according to the race’s  website .  French and Malian forces have been fighting rebels, mainly
militants seeking to impose a strict version of Islamic law,
after they moved toward the capital. Neighboring West African
nations have sent troops to join the battle against the
insurgents who control the north of Mali.  Instability has spread to other states in the region.
Gunmen linked to al-Qaeda attacked a fortified Algerian gas
plant partly run by  BP Plc (BP/)  near the Libyan border on Jan. 16,
leading to a four-day siege that resulted in the deaths of at
least 38 foreign hostages and 32 militants.  The Budapest-Bamako race, dubbed a low-budget version of
the Paris-Dakar rally, will feature cars including the former
east German communist fixture, the Trabant, as well as a fire
truck, according to the race’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  