-- Munich Re Says World Crop Insurance Costs Top Record on Drought
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-01-25T09:45:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/munich-re-says-world-crop-insurance-costs-top-record-on-drought.html
Global crop insurance claims were
the highest ever last year after drought cut yields in the U.S.,
historically the biggest grower of corn and soybeans.  Claims worldwide were worth about $23 billion in 2012, with
$15 billion going to growers in the U.S., said Karl Murr, who
heads the agriculture unit at  Munich Re , the world’s biggest
reinsurance company. About 85 percent of farmland is insured in
the U.S., compared with 20 percent globally. U.S. corn and
soybean harvests slid to a six-year low in the past season after
the most severe dry spell since 1956.  “Drought was by far the single most important cause of
losses in 2012,” Murr said yesterday in an e-mailed response to
Bloomberg questions. “With the U.S. representing about 50
percent of worldwide crop insured values, they obviously took
the lion’s share of payouts in 2012, dwarfing loss payouts in
 Europe , including eastern Europe.”  Corn and soybean prices rallied to records last year on the
Chicago Board of Trade as yield prospects declined and rising
demand depleted world stockpiles. As of Jan. 21, U.S. farmers
had collected about $12.35 billion in insurance  claims  since the
marketing year began, surpassing the $10.84 billion at the same
time a year earlier, according to the U.S. Department of
Agriculture’s Risk Management Agency.  Combined output of corn and soybeans dropped to 355.9
million metric tons in the 2012-13 season, down 11 percent from
a year earlier, according to the USDA. While the U.S. is the
world’s biggest corn grower and exporter,  Brazil  is expected to
overtake the North American country as the top producer and
shipper of soybeans this season.  Beating 1988  Claims in the past year surpassed payouts in 1988, a year
when drought slashed U.S. corn production by 31 percent. That
year, farmers collected less than $1 billion in crop insurance
claims on crop damage worth $15 billion, Murr said. Nearly half
of the U.S. still is experiencing abnormally dry conditions,
according to the U.S. Drought Monitor. Winter wheat at the end
of November was in the worst shape since records began in 1985.  Dry weather also damaged crops in the past season in
 Russia ,  Kazakhstan ,  Ukraine ,  Argentina  and Brazil, while  Poland 
suffered from a cold snap and the U.K. had its second-wettest
year on record. Flooded fields probably cost British farmers
about $2.1 billion (1.3 billion pounds) in damage, much of which
wasn’t insured, Murr said.  “Only a few European countries have crop insurance, and
most of that only covers hail, but not the more dramatic risks
like drought and flood,” Murr said. “Therefore, still in 2012,
large agricultural production losses were not insured.”  Munich-based Munich Re has a gross written premium in
agricultural reinsurance valued at about 1 billion euros ($1.34
billion), compared with total written premiums of 26.5 billion
euros, the company said in an investor briefing in October. The
company will probably pay out the most ever for agricultural
losses due to last year’s drought, Murr said. Munich Re said in
November that crop failures may cost it about 160 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  