-- Unlocking Phone to Change Wireless Carrier Curbed by U.S.
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-01-26T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/unlocking-phone-to-change-wireless-carrier-curbed-by-u-s-.html
Starting today, U.S. consumers won’t
be allowed to unlock new mobile phones purchased from wireless
providers, under a change in U.S. rules backed by carriers led
by  Verizon Wireless  and  AT&T Inc. (T)   The  Library of Congress ’s Copyright Office, as part of a
periodic review, said altering software to let one carrier’s
phones work on other networks won’t be among activities that are
expressly permitted under copyright law. The rule change was
announced last October.  CTIA-The Wireless Association, with members including the
four largest U.S. mobile carriers -- Verizon, AT&T,  Sprint
Nextel Corp. (S)  and T-Mobile USA Inc. -- had argued that “locking
cell phones is an essential part of the wireless industry’s
dominant business model” involving handset subsidies and
contracts, Librarian of Congress James Billington said in the
notice.  Consumers can still choose to buy unlocked phones that will
work with multiple carriers, giving them an alternative,
Billington said. Partly because of that possibility, unlocking
newly purchased phones doesn’t merit an exemption under
copyright law, he said. Consumers who bought phones before the
change can unlock their handsets, according to the rule change.  The new restriction represents a misuse of copyright law,
 Sherwin Siy , a vice president with the Washington-based policy
group  Public Knowledge , said in an interview.  “It wasn’t made to make it harder for people to switch
phone companies,” Siy said.  Legal Protection  The change removes legal protection that has allowed
consumers to unlock their phones and doesn’t explicitly make the
act illegal,  Mitch Stoltz , a staff attorney with the Electronic
Frontier Foundation, a San Francisco-based advocacy group, said
in an interview.  “You will not have this shield in the event you’re sued,”
Stoltz said. “It may go to court some time, and then it will be
up to a judge.”  CTIA said in a  filing  with Library of Congress that
subsidies “depend on ensuring that the handset will be used, as
contemplated, with the carrier’s service.”  Circumventing barriers to unauthorized use “will have
significant adverse effects on the wireless industry and on the
public,” the Washington-based trade group said in its February
2012 filing.  Amy Storey, a spokeswoman for Washington-based CTIA, didn’t
immediately supply a comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  