-- Murray Tops Federer in 5 Sets to Reach Australian Open Final
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-01-25T15:19:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/murray-beats-federer-to-reach-australian-final-against-djokovic.html
Andy Murray  outlasted  Roger Federer 
in five sets to reach his third Australian Open final, where
he’ll play defending champion Novak Djokovic for the title.  Murray, the No. 3 seed from Britain, beat the four-time
champion 6-4, 6-7 (5-7), 6-3, 6-7 (2-7), 6-2 at Rod Laver Arena
last night to secure his first win in four Grand Slam meetings
with the second-seeded Swiss. The final is tomorrow.  “I’ve lost some tough matches against him in Slams,”
Murray said in a news conference. “So to win one, especially
the way that it went tonight, was obviously nice. It was a tough
match. A lot of ups and downs. So it was good to come back after
the way I lost the fourth set.”  Murray was broken as he served for the match and lost the
fourth-set tiebreaker to send the four-hour contest to a
deciding set, where he won 16 of the 19 points on his own
service. The Scot is seeking to become the first man in the
professional era to win his first two major championships back-
to-back after breaking through at September’s U.S. Open, where
he beat Djokovic in the final.  “The task isn’t any easier,” Murray added. “I’m playing
Novak again on this court. This has been his best court for
sure. I’m aware of how tough it will be to win the match.”  The 31-year-old Federer was trying to become the second man
to win the tournament at least five times after  Australia ’s  Roy Emerson , who claimed six titles.  ‘Good Feeling’  Federer, who secured a men’s record-extending 17th Grand
Slam singles title by beating Murray at Wimbledon in July,
didn’t play a tune-up event as part of a streamlined schedule.
Murray successfully defended his Brisbane International title
before arriving at Melbourne Park, where he was the runner-up
in 2010 and 2011.  “I go from here with a good feeling for the year,”
Federer told reporters. “I didn’t play a tournament leading in,
so now I know where my level is at. Also knowing I have even
more time to work on my game, work on my fitness this year.”  In a match of momentum shifts, Murray took the first set in
45 minutes after breaking Federer’s service in the third game.
The second set went to a tiebreaker, which saw Federer jump out
to a 4-1 lead before being pegged back to 4-4 after Murray
successfully challenged a line call. Federer brought up a set
point with a whipped cross-court backhand from behind the
baseline and converted when a forehand from Murray went long.  Another Break  Murray broke in the sixth game of the third set when
Federer sent a backhand wide. The U.S. Open and Olympic champion
delivered nine winners against four unforced errors in winning
the set in 36 minutes.  Having only had one previous break point in the match,
Federer got another three opportunities on his opponent’s serve
in the fourth game of the fourth set, going 3-1 up when Murray
hooked a forehand wide.  Murray broke back three games later, using his forehand to
gain court position. He scrambled from the baseline to break
again in the 11th game and earn the right to serve for the
match, only to lose his service by firing a forehand wide to
send the set into a tiebreaker, which Federer won amid chants of
“Let’s Go Roger, Let’s Go!”  Murray got an early break to go up 2-0 in the final set and
didn’t face a break point on his own serve the rest of the way.
He clinched the win with his sixth break of the match as Federer
ballooned a forehand long.  Djokovic Rested  Murray will next face an opponent who will have had an
extra 24 hours rest, although the man who played his semifinal
second at Melbourne Park went on to win the final in four of the
past five years. Djokovic two days ago continued his bid for a
third straight title by dropping only five games in beating
 David Ferrer , the No. 4 seed from  Spain .  Murray said he’s anticipating another physical match
against Djokovic, who leads 10-7 in their career meetings.  “I don’t want to be wasting any energy,” he said. “I’ll
need all of it if I want to win against Novak on Sunday.”  Having almost gone out of the tournament in a five-hour
fourth-round match against  Switzerland ’s  Stanislas Wawrinka ,
Djokovic produced what he said was one of the best performances
of his career in routing Ferrer 6-2, 6-2, 6-1.  Before attending his post-match news conference, the Serb
returned to Rod Laver Arena to joke around in a cameo appearance
as a trainer during a legends’ doubles match.  “I have a great feeling about myself on the court at this
moment,” the 25-year-old Djokovic, who also won the 2008 final
at Melbourne Park, told reporters.  In today’s women’s final, defending champion  Victoria Azarenka  of  Belarus  faces  Li Na , the No. 6 seed from  China . Both
women are seeking to join Serena and  Venus Williams ,  Maria Sharapova  and  Svetlana Kuznetsova  as the only active players
with at least two major titles.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Baynes at Melbourne Park at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  