-- Velarde Says He Doesn’t See Need for Peru Capital Controls
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2013-01-25T21:08:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/velarde-says-he-doesn-t-see-need-for-peru-capital-controls-1-.html
Peru doesn’t need to resort to
 capital controls  to curb the sol’s appreciation amid strong
demand for the country’s bonds, central bank President Julio Velarde, said today.  “I’ve never thought about capital controls. I don’t see
them as necessary now,” Velarde told reporters in  Lima  today.  Though the differential between the bank’s benchmark
lending rate and record low borrowing costs in Europe,  Japan  and
the U.S. isn’t the main reason why investors are buying Peruvian
 government bonds , Velarde said he “wouldn’t rule out” a rate
cut now that inflation is under control. Inflation will be
“low” this month and will slow to policy makers’ 2 percent
target this year, he said.  Peruvian companies seeking dollar financing abroad, demand
for the government’s local currency bonds, and record foreign
investment spurred the sol to a 16-year high of 2.5375 per  U.S.
dollar  on Jan. 14. The central bank bought a record $13.9
billion in the spot market last year to tame the sol’s rally and
last week raised the ceiling on local pension funds’ investments
abroad to bolster demand for dollars.  Overseas bond issues by El Fondo Mivivienda SA, Peru’s
state mortgage lender, and Corporacion Financiera de Desarollo
SA, the state development bank, will add to dollar inflows,
Velarde said. The issues go in the opposite direction of the
 Finance Ministry , which plans to prepay dollar debt to soak up
some of the greenbacks in the local market, he said.  The sol weakened 0.2 percent to 2.5590 at today’s close,
and declined 0.3 percent this week, according to prices compiled
by Bloomberg.  The central bank’s increased intervention in the  spot
market  makes investors less likely to bet against the dollar in
the short term, said Gonzalo Navarro, the head trader at Banco
Santander Peru SA, in an e-mailed response to questions. The
outlook for the sol’s long term is for more appreciation, he
said.  The monetary authority bought $950 million last week, the
most since January 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  