-- Chavez Faces Most Complex Phase of Cancer Recovery
-- B y   J o s e   O r o z c o   a n d   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2013-01-25T16:58:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/venezuela-s-chavez-faces-most-complex-part-recovery.html
Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez
still faces the “most complex” phase of his illness after
cancer surgery last month in Cuba, Foreign Minister Elias Jaua
said yesterday after returning from a trip to  Havana .  “The president is in the process of recovery,” Jaua said
in a call to state television. “However, the battle against the
most complex and profound part of the sickness is coming.”  Jaua didn’t provide details on this phase of Chavez’s
recovery. He said he met with Chavez yesterday in Havana and
held political and economic talks.  Chavez, 58, has not been seen or heard from since he
underwent a fourth surgery for an undisclosed type of cancer
Dec. 11. Venezuela will continue to inform the public about the
state of Chavez’s health, Information Minister Ernesto Villegas
told reporters yesterday in Caracas.  “We’ll give the good news if there is good news and the
bad news if there is bad news,” Villegas said. The former
paratrooper is making decisions as he receives treatment in Cuba
and there is no set date for his return to  Venezuela , he said.  A health report from Technology Minister Jorge Arreaza, who
returned to Caracas this week after a month on the Caribbean
island, “has filled us with a lot of optimism,” Villegas said.
 Arreaza is Chavez’s son-in-law.  ‘Climbing Back Up’  Vice President Nicolas Maduro arrived in Havana Jan. 23 to
receive instructions from Chavez on a regional summit taking
place this week that he and Jaua will attend.  “President Chavez is closing a post-operative cycle,”
Maduro said in an  interview  broadcast Jan. 23 on Russian state
network RT before he flew to Cuba. “He’s climbing back up the
crest of the hill, battling and has lived the best days after
the operation.”  Bolivian President Evo Morales said Jan. 22 Chavez is doing
physiotherapy in order to return to Venezuela.  Chavez’s fragile health prevented him from attending his
own swearing-in ceremony for a new term Jan. 10 after the Dec.
11 operation caused a lung infection and hemorrhaging.  Before traveling to Cuba, Chavez anointed Maduro as his
successor, urging Venezuelans to vote for the 50-year-old former
bus driver and labor union leader should he die or step down
because of his health.  The yield on Venezuela’s benchmark 9.25 percent securities
due in 2027 fell 7 basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to
8.93 percent at 12:20 p.m. in Caracas, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The bond’s price rose 0.60 cent to 102.60
cents on the dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net ;
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  