-- Videgaray Says Mexico Oil Bill on Track for Congress in 1st Half
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z ,   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2013-01-25T22:02:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/videgaray-says-mexico-oil-bill-on-track-for-congress-in-1st-half.html
Mexican Finance Minister Luis Videgaray said a bill to break state-owned Petroleos Mexicanos’s
monopoly on the oil industry is on track to be presented to
congress in the first half of the year, two weeks after he said
it would be the second half.  “The energy reform is envisaged for this year, 2013,
particularly for the first months, for the first half of the
year,” Videgaray said in an interview at the World Economic
Forum’s annual meeting in Davos, Switzerland. “It’s something
that we’re working on right now, not only the technical aspects,
but also achieving political agreement.”  Nomura Holdings Inc. analyst  Benito Berber  wrote in a Jan.
8 note that he’d turned bearish on the peso “in the very short
term” due in part to the potential delay in the energy
overhaul. Videgaray told Radio Formula in an interview on Jan. 8
that the bill would be presented in the second half. Pushing off
the bill wasn’t a “good signal” and showed that the government
is still deciding on its content, New York-based Eurasia Group
said in a research note today.  Standard & Poor’s may not upgrade Mexico’s sovereign credit
rating based on President Enrique Pena Nieto’s oil and tax bills
should his legislation end up being watered down, Lisa Schineller, a sovereign ratings director at S&P, said in an
interview yesterday.  Schineller said there’s a lack of clarity on how forceful
the bills would be in opening  Mexico ’s state-owned oil sector to
more private investment and at boosting tax collection.  Videgaray didn’t give any details today on how far the oil
bill would go to promote competition in the oil industry.  Pena Nieto has vowed to boost economic growth by opening
the energy industry to more private investment, lifting tax
collection, and spurring competition in key sectors such as
telecommunications after Latin America’s second-biggest economy
grew an average 2.1 percent in the past six years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Davos, Switzerland at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 