-- Volkswagen to Produce Golf for Americas at Mexican Plant
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-01-25T15:18:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/vw-to-shift-golf-production-for-americas-to-mexico-plant.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Europe ’s biggest
carmaker, plans to build its best-selling Golf hatchback in
 Mexico  in a push for market share in  North America , where it
trails competitors. The preferred shares hit a 20-year high.  VW will build the Golf at its factory in Puebla beginning
in the first quarter of 2014, the German manufacturer said
today. Golfs built at the plant will be sold in North and South
America, and the production will be in addition to output of the
model at VW’s home base in Wolfsburg and in Zwickau in eastern
 Germany , said Christoph Adomat, a spokesman.  “Volkswagen has ambitious growth plans, and localizing
production is crucial for these plans to work out,” said  Daniel Schwarz , a Commerzbank AG analyst in Frankfurt. “You can’t be
successful in the mass-market segment if you only import cars.”  The move to produce the Golf in Puebla is part of a plan to
spend $5 billion over the next three years in North America.
Growth there is critical to Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn ’s strategy to become the world’s biggest carmaker by
2018. By shifting Golf production to Mexico, VW plans to benefit
from lower labor costs and hedge against unfavorable currency
fluctuations between the dollar and euro.  ‘Ideal Location’  “With its existing infrastructure, competitive cost
structures and free-trade agreements, Mexico is the ideal
location to produce the Golf for the American market,” Hubert Waltl, the head of production at VW’s passenger car brand, said
today in a statement.  VW preferred stock  rose  as much as 1 percent to 184.80
euros, the highest intraday price since at least November 1992,
and was trading up 0.9 percent at 4:13 p.m. in Frankfurt. the
shares have jumped 35 percent in the last 12 months, valuing the
manufacturer at 82.5 billion euros ($111 billion).  Underscoring the need for growth outside its home market,
VW’s sales in Europe plunged 15 percent in December, bringing
the 2012 drop to 1.1 percent. The European car market is
forecast to decline for a sixth straight year in 2013 because of
the effects of the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Volkswagen, which has increased sales in countries such as
China, Brazil and Russia in recent years and gained market share
in Europe, lags behind  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) 
in U.S. volumes. To help catch up, VW earlier this month opened
a $550 million engine factory in Silao, Mexico, to supply its
two assembly plants in North America.  Sales Surge  Fueled by demand for the U.S. version of the  Passat (PSAT)  mid-
sized sedan, sales of Audi- and VW-brand vehicles there surged
31 percent to 580,200 cars last year, beating the previous high
set in 1970, when VW’s Beetle and Microbus helped define
American culture. This year, VW plans to report a profit in the
U.S., its first there since 2002.  Producing the Golf in Puebla allows Volkswagen to make
“further strides towards the goal of building more than 75
percent of the cars Volkswagen of America sells in the North
American region,” Volkswagen’s North America chief  Jonathan Browning  said in the statement.  The Golf is the backbone of Volkswagen’s MQB platform,
which will serve as the underpinnings for Audi, Skoda and Seat
vehicles. The strategy is intended to lower production costs 20
percent by enabling faster assembly of cars with fewer
components.  VW plans additional shifts at the Wolfsburg plant to meet
demand for the Golf as orders for the model exceed 100,000 cars,
the company said Jan. 23. The seventh generation of the Golf was
first presented at the Paris auto show in September 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Frankfurt at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  