-- Weak Real Dollar Bolsters U.S. Export Surge: Chart of the Day
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-01-25T17:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/weak-real-dollar-bolsters-u-s-export-surge-chart-of-the-day.html
The  Federal Reserve ’s record
monetary stimulus since 2008 has accelerated a broad-based
weakening trend in the dollar and buoyed export growth as it
spurred foreign demand for U.S. products.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the Fed’s Trade-Weighted Real
Broad Dollar Index that tracks it against the currencies of 38
countries has depreciated 35 percent from its peak reached since
1973, the year global currencies began freely floating. A broad-
based weakening of the dollar has aided a rebound in U.S.
exports, the green line in the chart, during the past decade.  “Whether you look at the dollar relative to the developing
or the industrial world, the U.S. is extremely competitive
now,” said  James Glassman , senior economist at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. “It’s probably more attractive than it’s ever been for
companies to locate in America. What we saw in the ’80s and ’90s
with the strength of the dollar was the aberration. The weaker
dollar aiding manufacturing is a big plus for the economy and
this trend will continue.”  Exports accounted for a record 14.1 percent of gross
domestic product in the third quarter of 2011, and held a year
later at 13.9 percent, both up from a decade low of 9.2 percent
in the second quarter of 2003, according to Bureau of Economic
Analysis data. America’s trade balance, at a deficit of $48.7
billion in November, has shrunk from more than $67 billion in
August 2006, while greater than the $24.9 billion deficit in May
2009.  The Fed more than tripled its balance sheet since 2008 to
more than $3 trillion through its bond purchases, known as
quantitative easing. The spiral in the value of the dollar has
added to more fundamental trends of improving relative labor
costs and falling energy prices in triggering a resurgence of
manufacturing in the U.S. and exports, according to the Boston
Consulting Group Inc. This growth will lead to between 2.5 and 3
million added U.S. jobs by the end of the decade, BCG predicted.  Apple Inc. Chief Investment Officer  Tim Cook  announced last
year the company will invest more than $100 million to bring
production of personal computers back to the U.S. Honda Motor
Co., reliant on U.S. vehicle sales for more than half its
profit, said in August it was investing $40 million at a
Greensburg, Indiana, plant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  