-- Wells Fargo Investment Bankers Get Coach to Hone Pitches
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-01-25T16:30:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/wells-fargo-investment-bankers-get-coach-to-hone-pitches.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the lender
expanding its securities unit to challenge Wall Street
competitors, hired an outside firm to help investment bankers
win more business.  Wells Fargo began a pilot program last year with Kingstree
Group, a London consultant that trains senior bankers in skills
they need to secure more advisory and underwriting business,
said Jessica Ong, a spokeswoman for the San Francisco-based
bank. Kingstree’s website says the firm conducts one-on-one
sessions, group workshops and provides online learning to give
bankers more confidence and better presentation skills.  Kingstree’s hiring adds to evidence of Wells Fargo’s
ambitions in  investment banking  as it pursues niches dominated
by firms such as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and JPMorgan Chase &
Co. Wells Fargo is expanding while disclaiming any desire to be
No. 1, saying it’s motivated by needs of its customers. The bank
opened trading floors last month in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina .  “Our senior leaders want continuing education and a
further refining of their skills, so we went outside the system
like most companies would do,” Ong said. “This is standard
industry practice.”  Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf , 59, is bolstering the
securities business acquired in the rescue of Wachovia Corp.
during the 2008 financial crisis. Rob Engel and Jonathan Weiss
oversee investment banking and capital markets, while Tim Mullins and Walter Dolhare manage the sales and trading
businesses. The four report to John Shrewsberry, president of
Wells Fargo Securities.  League Tables  Hiring a coach has been done before in the industry, said
Terry Connelly, former dean of the Ageno School of Business at
Golden Gate University in San Francisco and an ex-managing
director at Salomon Brothers Inc.  “If they are hiring a consultant to help them sharpen the
focus of what is potentially within their grasp that sounds to
me like an act of sound corporate discipline,” Connelly said.
“In this case, one would hope they had managed to hire a few
bankers who  knew what they were doing  and could provide rather
more experiential and hands-on guidance.”  Once, at Salomon, Connelly hired an English professor from
 Amherst College  to help his bankers write better pitch letters.
The instruction helped the 28-year-old investment bankers who
were calling on executives such as the finance chief at
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , he said. Nevertheless,
they kept it quiet, he said.  Deep-Dark Secret  “To bring in a consultant to teach you how to be a better
banker strikes me as something you want to keep as a deep-dark
secret,” Connelly said. “I think a consultant can be very
useful but it ought to be kept very quiet and it ought to be
very focused.”  Among U.S. bond underwriters, Wells Fargo was 10th last
year, excluding its own deals, up from 13th a year earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bank ranked 10th
both of the last two years in U.S. equity and equity-linked
deals, and 19th for U.S. mergers and acquisitions in 2012, up
from 21st the year before.  Kingstree, created in 1974, works with the world’s largest
corporations and  financial institutions , according to its
website. Jim Good is the firm’s U.S. chairman.  “The written document is important, but it rarely
determines a win on its own: ‘No one ever bought anything from a
bunch of slides!’” according to the Kingstree  website . “The
impression created by the professionals who will do the job or
deliver the product is vital.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  