-- Weyerhaeuser Declines on Performance at Lumber Unit
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-01-25T18:47:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/weyerhaeuser-declines-on-performance-at-lumber-unit.html
Weyerhaeuser Co. (WY) , a U.S. lumber
producer and home builder, fell the most in nine months after
profit from land sales in the fourth quarter overshadowed
weaker-than-expected earnings from wood products.  Weyerhaeuser  declined  2.3 percent to $30.77 at 12:58 p.m.
in  New York . The Federal Way, Washington-based company’s shares
earlier dropped 4.9 percent, the most intraday since April 23.  Fourth-quarter net income more than doubled to $143
million, or 26 cents a share, helped by $65 million of earnings
from so-called non-strategic land sales, the company said today
in a statement. Weyerhaeuser’s per-share earnings topped the 20-
cent average of eight  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The shares are “down because the beat was generated by lot
and land sales in the real estate segment that can be very
volatile from quarter to quarter and this quarter were unusually
high,” Joshua Zaret, a New York-based analyst at Longbow
Research LLC, said today in an e-mail. “Higher raw material
costs in wood products also constrained earnings.”  Earnings from lumber were disappointing, even as prices for
building materials have risen as the U.S. housing market
recovers,  Mark Connelly , a New York-based analyst at Credit
Agricole Securities USA, said today in an e-mail.  “All of the outperformance was in land sales,” Connelly
said. “You have to take them out to see performance versus
expectations. So today’s results were ‘just ok.’”  Fourth-quarter sales rose 24 percent to $2 billion from a
year earlier.  Weyerhaeuser expects the housing recovery to continue this
year, Chief Executive Officer Dan Fulton said today on a
conference call.  “Market conditions are much improved from one year ago,
though today’s level of housing starts is still low by historic
standards, but we are at last on a clear path to recovery to
long-term trend levels,” Fulton said.  Net income in the fourth quarter of 2011 was $65 million,
or 12 cents a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  