-- White Nominated, Barclays List, IOSCO, Davos: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-01-25T13:52:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/white-nominated-barclays-list-iosco-report-davos-compliance.html
Mary Jo White, who gained prominence
prosecuting terrorists as U.S. attorney for Manhattan, was named
by President  Barack Obama  to be chairman of the Securities and
Exchange Commission.  White, a partner at law firm Debevoise & Plimpton LLP in
New York, would succeed Elisse Walter, who took over as SEC
chairman when Mary Schapiro stepped down last month. Obama also
re-nominated Richard Cordray as director of the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau.  The nominations will ensure the laws and rules put in place
after the financial crisis are used to protect investors and
families, Obama said at the White House. He described White as
someone “you don’t want to mess with.”  The appointment of White will be a departure for the SEC,
which has typically been run by lawyers steeped in financial
policy making and the securities industry. Her relative
inexperience in those areas, along with her work defending
corporate clients including Ken Lewis, the former chief
executive officer of  Bank of America Corp ., could draw criticism
from some lawmakers and advocates for investors.  White, 65, was U.S. attorney for the Southern District of
New York from 1993 to 2002, and won the conviction of four
followers of Osama bin Laden for the 1998 bombings of two U.S.
embassies in Africa.  Under her direction, prosecutors won convictions for the
1993 World Trade Center bombing and a failed plot to blow up the
United Nations headquarters and other New York landmarks.  Schapiro stepped down from the SEC’s top job last month and
was succeeded by Walter, who can stay in the job through the end
of this year.  For more, click here.  Special Section: Davos  EU to Embark on Strong Bank-Structure Overhaul, Barnier Says  Michel Barnier, the European Union’s financial services
chief, said that he will present proposals this year for a
“strong reform” of bank structure in a bid to prevent lenders
from being too-big-to-fail.  The EU plans will “separate well the risks in the banking
sector,” the European Commissioner said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television’s Caroline Connan yesterday at the World
Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. The proposals may be
published by September, he said.  Barnier said that the “basis” of his work was a report
presented last year by an EU mandated group led by Bank of
Finland governor Erkki Liikanen. The group proposed that banks
should be forced to shift some trading activities into
separately capitalized units.  BNP Paribas SA  and UniCredit SpA are among EU banks that
signaled opposition to the Liikanen group’s proposals, saying
that they would force them to cut back lending to businesses and
households. Barnier said that his proposals would “respect the
diversity of the banking sector” in the EU.  For more, click here.  For more about Davos Forum, click here.  U.K.’s EU Membership, Austerity Measures Are Focus at Davos  Leaders in finance and government convened in Davos,
Switzerland this week and participated in speeches, panels and
impromptu interviews on a range of economic and regulatory
topics. Recurring themes have included whether the U.K. should
remain in the European Union, and the need for austerity
measures coupled with ongoing fiscal and administrative reforms
in Europe.  U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron said the U.K. is not
turning its back on Europe after his speech on renegotiating the
relationship yesterday.  “This is not about turning our backs on Europe -- quite
the opposite,” Cameron said in a speech in Davos yesterday.
“It’s about how we make the case for a more competitive, open
and flexible Europe and secure the U.K.’s place within it.”  Irish Prime Minister Enda Kenny, talking with Bloomberg
Television’s Olivia Sterns, said he wants the U.K. to remain a
strong EU member. Swedish Finance Minister Anders Borg discussed
the implications of a U.K. exit from the EU with Francine Lacqua
on Bloomberg Television’s “Countdown” in Davos. He also
touched on banking regulation during the interview.  Earlier in the week, Swedish Prime Minister Fredrik
Reinfeldt said the U.K. staying in the EU is of “vital
interest” to Sweden.  Separately, former U.S. Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers
said yesterday “we really can’t look to austerity as a source
of growth.”  “In a different era it was reasonable to think that
bringing down budget deficits would bring down interest rates,
would spur investment, and would itself constitute a growth
strategy,” Summers said in a Bloomberg television interview
with Bloomberg’s  Tom Keene  on the sidelines of the World
Economic Forum’s annual meeting.  Government spending reductions in Europe are “really
stifling growth” and threaten to undermine the region’s
economic recovery, according to Joseph E. Stiglitz, the Nobel
Prize-winning Columbia University economist, who spoke with
Bloomberg Radio’s “Surveillance” with Tom Keene in Davos.  Angel Gurria, secretary general of the  Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development , said policy makers in the
euro area should push ahead with deficit cuts and avoid the
“false dilemma” of the austerity debate.  “You need fiscal consolidation in many countries and at
the same time you need to plant the seeds of future growth,”
Gurria said yesterday in an interview in Davos. “Let’s go for
the reforms, accelerate the reforms, so we can consolidate the
recovery.”  Netherlands Prime Minister Mark Rutte said austerity
measures remain necessary and discussed the progress of growth
policies.  Record Foreign Takeovers Mean New Scrutiny for Davos Dealmakers  Cross-border merger and acquisitions increased to a record
portion of all takeovers last year. That’s good news for
dealmakers, except at the same time those foreign transactions
have spurred tougher scrutiny from regulators and politicians.  For bankers, the colliding trends mean devoting more time
to weighing a deal’s political and antitrust considerations,
with many using meetings at the World Economic Forum in Davos,
Switzerland to network with politicians and such A-list
antitrust watchdogs as Europe’s Joaquin Almunia, Jon Leibowitz
of the U.S. and China’s Chen Deming.  Citing domestic competitive concerns, regulators have in
recent months blocked several big proposed cross-border deals.  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , the world’s biggest package-
delivery company, this month scrapped its 5.16 billion-euro
($6.9 billion) bid for  TNT Express NV (TNTE) , after the European Union
said it would oppose the deal. Last October, German Chancellor
Angela Merkel, concerned about the loss of jobs and influence,
scuttled the planned merger of  European Aeronautic, Defence &
Space Co. (EAD)  and  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  to create the world’s largest
aerospace and defense company.  “It’s important to understand how politicians and
regulators think,” said Henrik Naujoks, a partner and head of
European financial services at consulting firm Bain & Co., who
said he packed in three meetings with politicians in a day-and-
a-half in Davos. “Government and regulators have become more
critical in affecting corporate strategies.”  For more, click here.  For more about Davos, click here.  Enria Says EU Should ‘Stay Together’ on Capital Rules  Andrea Enria, chairman of the European Banking Authority,
discussed banking regulation and capital rules.  He talked with Olivia Sterns on the sidelines of the World
Economic Forum’s annual meeting in Davos, Switzerland.  For the video, click here.  Bank of Italy’s Role Isn’t to ‘Police’ Paschi, Visco Says  The Bank of Italy’s role isn’t to “police” lender Banca
Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA and the central bank wasn’t
informed of newly emerged transactions producing losses, said
Governor Ignazio Visco.  The central bank “is a supervisor, not the police of the
banks,” Visco said today in an interview with Bloomberg
Television’s Francine Lacqua in Davos, Switzerland.  The central bank will review Paschi’s books after the
company disclosed this week it may face more than 700 million
euros ($941 million) of losses related to structured finance
transactions hidden from regulators.  The Siena, Italy-based bank’s difficult liquidity
situation, which is also due to “risky” deals, has been known
for a long time, Visco said. New derivatives transactions linked
to earlier deals have emerged and the central bank wasn’t
informed of losses connected to them, Visco said.  Monte Paschi shareholders are today voting on a capital
increase to pave the way for emergency government loans needed
to boost capital. The stability of the bank is not in question
and Monte Paschi “needs money because it has to meet certain
standards of capital,” Visco said.  The Bank of Italy may approve the aid as soon as tomorrow,
financial newspaper MF reported today, without citing anyone.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  U.S SEC Commissioners Protest IOSCO Complex Security Report  Two members of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
 objected  to a report on suitability requirements for complex
financial products put out by an international group.  The  document , issued by the  International Organization of
Securities Commissions  on Jan. 21, sets out nine “principles”
that include distinguishing between individual and institutional
investors, adequately disclosing risks and making sure a
customer understands an investment’s structure. The guidelines
are intended for distributors of securities, such as brokers.
The SEC, which currently lacks one of its five commissioners,
didn’t approve the report.  SEC commissioners Troy Paredes and Daniel Gallagher said in
a statement that the final report “does not accurately reflect
the relevant law in the U.S.”  IOSCO, whose members include regulators in more than 100
countries, is a policy forum that tries to develop and implement
international oversight and enforcement standards. The board is
made up of representatives from 32 securities regulators,
including the SEC.  Messages left with representatives for Paredes and
Gallagher weren’t returned.  Compliance Action  Focus Media Says SEC Probing Possible Securities Violations  Focus Media Holding Ltd. (FMCN)  said the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission is probing potential “violations” of
securities law, with special attention to purchases and resales
of companies including Allyes Online Media Holding.  The Shanghai-based advertising company is cooperating with
the SEC, it said in a regulatory filing on Jan. 18 about its
going-private transaction with  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  and other firms.  Focus Media agreed in December to be bought by a group of
investors led by Carlyle Group.  SEC Delays Ruling on Nasdaq’s Payout Proposal for Facebook IPO  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission delayed a
ruling on Nasdaq Stock Market’s proposal to compensate brokers
that lost money in the initial public offering of  Facebook Inc. (FB) 
in May.  The SEC needs more time to review Nasdaq’s payment plan and
comment letters, the regulator said in a  notice  yesterday on its
website. The new deadline is March 29, it said. The SEC has
received six additional letters and a second response letter
from Nasdaq since it last extended the deadline on Oct. 26,
according to the filing.  The operator of the second-largest U.S. equity exchange
increased a plan to pay brokers for losses incurred because the
exchange’s so-called opening cross, which sets the first traded
price for Facebook, failed to operate properly on May 18,
according to a July proposal.  U.K. Competition Agency Won’t Probe Bank Checking Accounts  A British competition regulator won’t seek a full
investigation into the country’s 9 billion-pound ($14.2 billion)
market for personal checking accounts after a review of
difficulties faced by customers.  Upcoming changes in the market for so-called current
accounts, including automated account switching and the sale of
branches by  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc , will make it easier for customers to compare
services, the Office of Fair Trading said today.  The industry still needs “significant” changes to tackle
long-standing competition concerns, the regulator said. The OFT
said there have been improvements to the accounts, including a
decrease in unauthorized overdraft charges between 2007 and 2011
that have saved customers as much as 928 million pounds a year.
The structure for such charges is still too complex, it said,
and the market is hampered by low innovation and “customer
apathy in the face of unclear costs.”  The British Bankers’ Association, a trade group, said the
system for allowing customers to switch banks would start in
September, and that it would work with the OFT to implement new
changes to improve services for customers.  Courts  Barclays Libor Suit List Shows Probe Spanned Diamond to Dearlove  Barclays Plc (BARC)  senior executives, dozens of traders and the
bank’s chief economist were all identified by regulators in a
probe into interest-rate rigging that spanned continents,
according to documents released in the U.K.’s first Libor-
manipulation lawsuit.  Barclays is being sued by affiliates of Guardian Care Homes
Ltd. claiming an interest-rate swap should be annulled because
it is linked to Libor, which Barclays tried to rig. Judge Julian
Flaux in London rejected a bid by a group of employees
identified in the Libor documents to prevent their names from
being published ahead of a trial later this year.  Among those identified in connection with the case were
former Chief Executive Officers Robert Diamond and John Varley,
and Jerry Del Missier, the bank’s former chief operating
officer. The list of names, which Flaux said had to be turned
over to Guardian, was compiled from evidence Barclays provided
in the regulatory probes that led a 290 million-pound fine
($457.5 million) in June.  Jon Laycock, a spokesman for London-based Barclays, said
people named in the hundreds of thousands of documents used in
the investigation weren’t necessarily suspected of wrongdoing.
Only 24 of the 104 employees on the list had any involvement in
setting Libor, Flaux said on Jan. 22.  Tom Gough, a spokesman for one of the law firms
representing the Barclays employees, declined to comment. A
spokesman for Diamond declined to comment.  For more, click here.  Comings and Goings  Geithner Exits Treasury as Lew Prepares for Senate Scrutiny  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, the most
senior Obama administration official remaining from the team
that grappled with the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression, leaves office today as his likely successor seeks
Senate approval.  Geithner, 51, hands a more stable economy to Jack Lew,
President Barack Obama’s nominee, as the administration bounces
from one confrontation to another with Republican lawmakers on
issues including the  budget  and the debt ceiling. Geithner
hasn’t said publicly what his next career move will be.  Deputy Treasury Secretary Neal Wolin will be acting
secretary after Geithner leaves today. Wolin, 51, was a key
negotiator with Congress on the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul
law.  Lew, 57, who ran a surplus for three consecutive years as
U.S. budget chief under Clinton, has been meeting this week with
senators who will vote whether to confirm him. The Senate
Finance Committee, which has jurisdiction over Lew’s nomination,
hasn’t set a date for a confirmation hearing.  For more, click here.  HSBC Said Close to Hiring Former Nomura Banker William Barter  William Barter, 46, the former head of U.K. investment
banking at  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , is poised to join  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA)  as head of global banking for the U.K., according to two
people familiar with the situation.  The role would be a newly created position and a final
decision has yet to be made, one of the people said, declining
to be identified because the plans are private. An HSBC
spokesman was not immediately available for comment.  Barter, who worked on 2012’s biggest takeover, left Nomura
late last year,  according  to the Financial Services Authority
register. His departure followed a reorganization of the
Japanese firm’s investment bank.  Nomura is scaling back its overseas ambitions after buying
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s European and Asian operations in
2008 -- a purchase intended to underpin a global investment
bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 