-- Why the Founding Fathers Loved the National Debt
-- B y   W i l l i a m   H o g e l a n d
-- 2013-01-25T16:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/why-the-founding-fathers-loved-the-national-debt.html
Although Republicans in Congress
agreed this week to suspend the U.S. debt limit for three months
and forestalled another budgetary showdown, most commentators
think the peace won’t last.  There’s sure to be a fight over automatic spending cuts
scheduled to kick in March 1 (part of last year’s debt-ceiling
deal), followed by a looming deadline for funding the government
that could lead to a shutdown. And House Speaker John Boehner
has vowed to block any long-term increase in the debt ceiling
without corresponding spending cuts -- in effect, holding out
the possibility of default as a means of controlling the
country’s debt.  As Republicans engage in this brinkmanship, they claim to
be defending principles enshrined in the Constitution: low
federal taxes, little spending, no public debt.  In fact, however, the Founding Fathers were deeply
committed to -- some might say obsessed with -- supporting a
national debt. And during the founding period, the threat of
default came not from conservatives but from what the founders,
at least, saw as a radical left.  It’s a fact so little-understood as to remain startling
that the Constitution, far from trying to limit federal
borrowing and shrink government, was specifically intended to
create a large and mighty government capable of taxing all
Americans for the purpose of funding a large federal debt.  Domestic Debt  Although many historians today focus on the Revolutionary
War debt to foreign countries, the kind of debt that captivated
the founders themselves, and served as one of the main prods to
forming a nation, was domestic. It involved multiple tiers of
bonds, issued by the wartime Congress and bought by wealthy
American investors, who hoped to finance the war in return for
tax-free interest payments of 6 percent. The first American
financiers, in other words, were also the first American
nationalists.  Both the young Alexander Hamilton (savviest of the founders
regarding finance) and his mentor Robert Morris (the wartime
Congress’s superintendent of finance and America’s first central
banker) believed that a domestic debt, supported by federal
taxes collected from all the states, would unify the country. It
would concentrate wealth, and yoke that wealth to a consolidated
government. The goal was a nation capable of grand projects --
ultimately an economic empire to compete with England’s.  Other famous founders worked with Morris and Hamilton in
building nationhood around the public debt. James Madison, who
became Hamilton’s political enemy in the 1790s, was among his
closest allies for nationalism in the 1780s. Madison’s famous
“Federalist No. 10” conveys a horror of default on the domestic
debt as deep as anything ever expressed by Hamilton.  In letters written before the Constitutional Convention to
George Washington, another supporter of sustaining federal debt
via taxes, Madison made clear the nationalists’ shared desire to
shore up public credit by throwing out the Articles of
Confederation and forming a nation. Edmund Randolph opened the
convention by charging the delegates to redress the country’s
failure to fund -- not pay off, fund -- the public debt by
creating a national government with the power to do so.  Economic Radicals  Still, there’s a problem for today’s liberals who might
hope to cite the real U.S. fiscal history in opposing a
“constitutional conservative” rationale for threatening national
default. The founding alliance that made federal debt a
supporter of nationhood, and nationhood a supporter of federal
debt, came about in direct opposition to a radically
egalitarian, communitarian movement that is in many ways the
intellectual antecedent of modern social-contract liberalism.  The radicals of that movement -- evinced in episodes such
as Shays’ Rebellion -- wanted to devalue the merchant class’s
crushing loans to ordinary people; disconnect bondholders and
bankers from government; prevent widespread foreclosures; more
tightly regulate business; and disseminate, rather than
concentrate, American wealth.  Default on the national debt was a horrifying prospect to
the founders, but not because they thought it would damage
ordinary people’s economic conditions. They knew default would
demolish the political alliance between wealth and government
that the nation’s founding had depended on. It was those early
economic radicals the nation was formed to suppress.  To debate today’s fiscal issues usefully might entail both
sides’ acknowledging the less edifying elements of our founding
period -- and moving beyond fantasies about what the founders
supposedly would have wanted.  ( William Hogeland ’s most recent book is “Founding Finance:
How Debt, Speculation, Foreclosures, Protests, and Crackdowns
Made Us a Nation.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this post: William Hogeland at
 hogeland.william@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  