-- Women Set to Run Canada’s Biggest Provinces After Vote
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-01-25T13:25:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/women-set-to-run-canada-s-biggest-provinces-after-vote.html
The selection this weekend of either
Sandra Pupatello or Kathleen Wynne to lead Ontario would put
women in charge of provincial governments overseeing about 90
percent of  Canada ’s economy and population.  Pupatello and Wynne are front-runners in the race to
replace Dalton McGuinty as head of the Liberal Party and premier
of Canada’s most-populous province. A victory for either at the
convention in Toronto tomorrow would mean that women would lead
half of Canada’s 10 provincial governments, including the four
biggest.  The ascent of women to power in Canada’s provinces has been
sudden in a country that still lags others in female
representation at the national level. About one-quarter of
Canada’s federal parliamentarians are women, ranking it 47th
globally, according to  data compiled  by the Inter-Parliamentary
Union.  “Canada has traditionally been way behind all sorts of
other countries in terms of the percentage, the number of women
in politics, and it’s been hard to explain,” said Martha Hall
Findlay, a former member of the national legislature who is
seeking the leadership of the federal  Liberal Party . “Clearly,
recently, we’ve made huge strides at the provincial level.”  Women Premiers  With the addition of Ontario, about 88 percent of Canadians
would be living in provinces run by women. In  Quebec , the
French-speaking region with about 24 percent of the population,
Pauline Marois, 63, of the Parti Quebecois party took power in
the Sept. 4 election. In  Alberta , the Western province that’s
home to the country’s booming oil industry, Conservative Alison Redford, 47, became leader in October, 2011 and won an election
six months later. And in British Columbia, Liberal Christy
Clark, 47, took over from Gordon Campbell as premier in 2011.  In the U.S., about 18 percent of Congress is female,
including 20 senators. That puts the U.S. tied for 82nd on the
Inter-Parliamentary Union list, along with Morocco and
 Venezuela . Five of the 50 U.S. states have female governors --
four Republicans and one Democrat. Only 35 women in American
history have run states.  Of the delegates that were elected earlier this month to
vote at the Liberal convention, 27 percent have committed to
Pupatello, a former Ontario legislator from Windsor. Wynne, a
lawmaker from Toronto who held four cabinet positions under
McGuinty, was second with 25 percent of delegates committed to
her campaign. Voting will start tomorrow at 12:30 p.m. Toronto
time. If no candidate gets majority support, balloting will
continue with the least-popular candidates dropping off
subsequent rounds until one has more than 50 percent of the
votes. There are six people in the race.  ‘Remarkably Quick’  “I’m sure we’re going to have a woman premier here,” said
Nelson Wiseman, a  University of Toronto  associate professor of
political science, adding he thinks Pupatello will win. “The
advance has been remarkably quick” for women in provincial
politics, he said.  Canada’s first female premier took power in 1991, when Rita
Johnston won the leadership of the governing Social Credit Party
in British Columbia only to be defeated in an election five
months later.  Catharine Callbeck became the first woman to be elected
premier in 1993 when her Liberals won power in Prince  Edward
Island , Canada’s smallest province.  No Anomaly  The next woman to be elected provincial premier was
Conservative Kathy Dunderdale of Newfoundland and Labrador in
2010. Since then, Clark, Redford and Marois have joined her in
the group of female leaders, along with Eva Aariak, who heads
the non-partisan government of Nunavut, one of three territories
in Canada’s north.  “I do still find it a little bit of an anomaly that in
Canada I’m considered to be an anomaly,” said Redford,
Conservative premier of oil-rich Alberta, in a Nov. 19 speech in
Ottawa. “Women do truly bring unique perspectives.”  If the Ontario Liberals choose Pupatello or Wynne, women
will be in charge of governments overseeing economies that
produced C$1.35 trillion ($1.35 trillion) in output last year,
more than 90 percent of the country’s total, according to
Statistics Canada data.  Five of the last 11 appointments to Canada’s  Supreme Court 
have been women, and a record 76 women were elected in the
 federal legislature  in the 2011 election.  Tenuous Hold  Still, some of Canada’s female premiers have a tenuous hold
on power. The next Liberal leader in Ontario will take over a
government with a minority of seats in the  legislature , and will
need opposition support to pass laws. Marois of the separatist
Parti Quebecois also leads a minority government. British
Columbia is scheduled to have elections in May and public
opinion polls suggest Clark’s Liberals are trailing.  Hall Findlay, who is campaigning for the federal Liberal
leadership for a second time after a failed bid in 2006, said
she’s not concerned.  “We have every right to celebrate all the progress we make
whenever we make it, partly because the more progress is made,
the more it builds on itself,” she said. “In 2006, I had some
sitting members of parliament actually say to me, ‘We think
you’re terrific but we just don’t think Canada is ready for a
woman prime minister.’”  “There is no way in hell any of those would say that
now,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa  at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  