-- Wonder App Stokes Yandex Gains on Ad Prospects: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-01-25T13:03:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/wonder-app-stokes-yandex-gains-on-ad-prospects-russia-overnight.html
Yandex NV (YNDX)  rose the most in three
weeks on prospects the Russian Internet company’s new social-
media search application will lure more mobile users and boost
advertising revenue.  Yandex climbed 2 percent to $23.20 on the Nasdaq Composite
Index yesterday, pushing its valuation to 20.1 times estimated
earnings, the highest level since Jan. 16. The  Bloomberg Russia-
US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of the most-traded Russian companies in the U.S.
rallied 0.6 percent. RTS stock index  futures  rose 0.9 percent to
161,920 by 4:38 p.m. in Moscow.  The owner of  Russia ’s most-used search engine, Yandex
debuted its  Wonder app  for U.S. users yesterday and may expand
access to Russia and  Turkey , Ochir Mandzhikov, the company’s
press chief, said by phone from Moscow. The app allows  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  iPhone and iPod Touch users to retrieve information from
social websites such as  Facebook (FB)  and Twitter. Facebook Inc.
unveiled a search tool for its social network Jan. 16.  “It’s a very smart move which shows that Yandex is testing
other potential areas for future growth,” Konstantin Belov, an
analyst at UralSib Financial Corp. who rates Yandex buy, said by
phone from Moscow yesterday. “Yandex wants to utilize its
technology at the most popular social websites and investors
appreciate that.”  Facebook blocked by Wonder three hours after it was
released, Yandex’s Mandzhikov said by phone today, confirming a
report yesterday on the TechCrunch website.  ‘Solve the Problem’  “We will contact Facebook as soon as possible to figure
out the reason and ways to solve the problem,” Mandzhikov said
by phone. The app is an experiment designed to target U.S.
users, and Wonder functions properly with online photo sharing
site Instagram, location app Foursquare and Twitter, he said.  David Swain, a spokesman for  Menlo Park ,  California-based
Facebook , said by e-mail late yesterday that the company doesn’t
typically comment on policy enforcement related to specific
apps.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the largest dedicated
Russian exchange-traded fund, added 0.2 percent to $30.48 in  New
York  yesterday, the highest level since Jan. 4. The RTS
Volatility Index, which measures expected swings in the  stock
futures , fell 2.7 percent to 19.9 points today.  Yandex rose to the highest level since Jan. 15 in New York
on trading volume that exceeded the average for the past tree
months by almost three times, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Users of the Wonder app can type or ask questions using
their mobile devices and get answers based on the
recommendations of their friends on social websites, Yandex said
in its statement yesterday.  ‘Skilled Rival’  The Moscow-based company, which beats  Google (GOOG)  Inc. as the
most-used search engine in Russia, rolled out yandex.com.tr for
Turkey in September 2011, offering local maps with traffic
information and street views, free e-mail, news aggregation,
image and video search and Turkish-English translation services.  Yandex plans to boost its market share in Turkey to as much
as 35 percent by end-2017, from 1 percent in 2012, Yandex Turkey
Chairman Mehmet Ali Yalcindag said at a Sept. 20 news conference
in Istanbul. Google has a 60 percent share of Turkey’s market,
he said.  Yandex got  90 percent  of revenue from text-based
advertising in the third quarter and makes almost all of its
money in Russia. The company’s three-month  average  share of
searches there has been above 60.4 percent since May 2012,
compared with about 26 percent for Google, owner of the world’s
largest search engine.  International expansion by Yandex “is fine in theory,
while in practice it’s tough to compete with such a skilled
rival as Google,”  David Ferguson , an analyst at Renaissance
Capital Ltd. said by phone from Moscow.  Polyus Rallies  Yandex’s  net income  will probably advance to a record
$365.8 million this year from an estimated $275.2 million in
2012, according to the mean of six analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. Revenue will increase to $1.26 billion in 2013
from an estimated $950 million in 2012, according to the mean of
13 projections.  Polyus Gold International Ltd. (PGIL)  rose by the most in six
months in New York as billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov ’s Onexim
Holdings Ltd. agreed to sell his 37.8 percent stake in the
Russian gold mining company to a group of investors, according
to three people with knowledge of the plan.  Onexim and a group of investors selected by billionaire
Suleiman Kerimov’s Nafta Moskva, which currently owns 40.2
percent of Polyus, sought approval from the U.K. Takeover Panel
for the deal, the people said, asking not to be identified as
the information is private.  Polymetal Merger  Global depositary receipts of Polyus rallied 7.3 percent to
$3.38  in New York yesterday, the highest close since Dec. 18.
The gold producer jumped 2.9 percent to 224.75 pence, or $3.53,
in  London  today, adding to yesterday’s 9.7 percent surge.  “The market appreciates that Kerimov finally gets to
define Polyus’s strategy, which means he will look into merging
Polyus with Polymetal,”  Alexei Morozov , an analyst at UBS AG,
said by phone from Moscow yesterday, referring to St Petersburg-
based gold and silver miner Polymetal International Plc. “The
merger would make a lot of sense and would be a very good thing
for both companies.”  CTC Media Inc. (CTCM)  was the second-biggest gainer after Polyus
Gold on the Russia-US gauge yesterday, rallying 5.7 percent to
$9.78, the highest level since May. 14.  CTC’s television channel, the company’s biggest source of
revenue, saw its share of viewers 4 years and older rise to the
fourth biggest in the nation for the first time since March
2012, TNS Global said in a report released yesterday.  Oil Climbs  Oil, which together with natural gas made up 50 percent of
Russian budget revenue in 2011, rose as U.S. jobless benefit
claims fell to a five-year low and an index of U.S. leading
indicators rose in December, signaling that the economy is
poised to keep growing through the first half of this year.  Crude oil for March delivery gained 0.8 percent to $95.95 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday. Brent oil
for March settlement increased 0.4 percent to $113.28 a barrel
on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Urals crude ,
the country’s main export blend, climbed 0.5 percent to $112.66
a barrel yesterday, the highest level since Oct. 16.  The ruble added 0.1 percent to 30.03 per dollar today, the
highest level since May 5. Ruble futures show the currency
strengthening 0.3 to 30.258 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  