-- Xstrata Keeps Las Bambas Cost at $5.2 Billion, Sees Output 2015
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2013-01-25T10:39:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/xstrata-keeps-las-bambas-cost-at-5-2-billion-sees-output-2015.html
Xstrata Plc (XTA) , the copper producer
whose $37 billion takeover by  Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  is
close to completion, maintained the cost of its Las Bambas mine
in  Peru  at $5.2 billion after raising it last year.  “Las Bambas is now in full construction phase and is set
to produce 400,000 tons of copper per annum from 2015 for at
least the first five years,” Xstrata said. “The project
delivers robust financials, earning Xstrata’s cost of capital at
a life of mine flat copper price of $1.89 per pound.”  The latest estimate of $5.2 billion compares with an
initial figure of $4.2 billion when the board approved the
project in 2010. The company raised the estimate to $5.2 billion
in August because of permitting delays, infrastructure costs and
costs associated with relocating communities.  Mining companies are facing cost overruns and delays in
building projects because of cost inflation and declining
commodity prices. Xstrata is seeking to increase the output of
its commodities ranging from thermal coal to zinc and nickel by
50 percent at the end of next year.  More than 90 percent of engineering work and 80 percent of
procurement and contracts were completed by the end of 2012 at
Las Bambas, Xstrata said today in a statement.  “We expect the news to be taken well given any fear of a
capex blowout should abate, and therefore the likelihood of
project execution under the merged group increases,” Liberum
Capital Ltd. said in note. “Nevertheless, we don’t rule out
modifications to the project following the capital allocation
review which we expect to follow merger completion.”  Won Approval  Glencore this week won approval from  South Africa ’s
antitrust regulator for its takeover of Xstrata, leaving Chinese
agreement as the sole outstanding requirement for the deal. The
companies extended the deadline for completing the deal to March
15 from Jan. 31.  Xstrata began copper production at its $1.5 billion
Antapaccay project in southern Peru in November. The mine will
produce an average of 160,000 tons of copper annually over the
first five years.  “Las Bambas represents the next major stage in Xstrata
copper’s Peruvian development plans that will result in combined
annual production levels in the country of around 700,000 tons
of high margin copper from 2015,”  Charlie Sartain , Xstrata’s
head of copper, said in today’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  