-- Myanmar Gets at Least 4 Potential Bidders for Phone Licenses
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r   a n d   K y a w   T h u
-- 2013-01-25T11:07:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-25/myanmar-attracts-at-least-2-potential-bidders-for-phone-licenses.html
Myanmar attracted at least four
expressions of interest for telecommunications licenses to be
issued as the nation tries to boost one of Asia’s lowest phone
penetration rates following decades of military rule.  Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. (ST) , Southeast Asia’s biggest
phone company,  Axiata Group Bhd. (AXIATA) , Malaysia’s largest cellular
operator by market value, Singapore’s ST Telemedia Pte, a unit
of Temasek Holdings Pte, and Norway’s  Telenor ASA (TEL)  said they
submitted expressions of interest to the Myanmar government
before today’s deadline.  “It is a logical and interesting market to consider
investing in,” Axiata said in an e-mailed statement to
 Bloomberg News . “It represents a strategic market given its
high growth potential.”  Myanmar is offering two licenses to boost telecom coverage
to as much as 80 percent of the country by 2016, the  government 
said Jan. 15 when inviting foreign companies to submit bids.
Myanmar’s 5.44 million mobile-phone subscribers as of last month
amounted to a 9 percent penetration rate, compared with 70
percent in Cambodia, 87 percent in  Laos  and more than 100
percent in Thailand, the ministry said. The country has a fixed-
line penetration rate of about 1 percent, it said.  Than Zaw, a director at the Ministry of Communications and
 Information Technology , said today that a statement would be
released, without giving a timeframe. Deputy Minister Maung Maung Thein at the Ministry of Finance and Revenue, who is a
member of the selection board, said he has not yet been informed
about the process. Ye Htut, a spokesman for President Thein Sein, was not immediately available to comment.  Creating Framework  “SingTel maintains an interest in investment opportunities
in large, underpenetrated markets and will be financially
disciplined in its evaluation of such opportunities,” the
Singapore’s biggest phone company said in an e-mailed statement,
adding that it submitted its interest with Myanmar partners.  The licenses will be issued by June and may last as long as
20 years with an option for renewal, the government said on Jan.
15. Myanmar’s parliament may approve a draft telecommunications
law, which will include the creation of an independent regulator
by 2015, in the first half of this year, it said.  The country of 64 million people has one of the lowest per-
capita gross domestic products in Asia, according to
 International Monetary Fund estimates .  SingTel, which also  owns  Australia’s second-biggest phone
company, holds stakes in mobile-phone operators in countries
including Thailand, the Philippines and  India . Kuala Lumpur-
based Axiata already has mobile-phone interests in countries
including India, Indonesia,  Bangladesh  and  Sri Lanka .  ST Telemedia  owns stakes in technology and phone companies
including  StarHub Ltd. (STH) , Singapore’s second-biggest
telecommunications operator. It also holds shares of mobile-
phone companies in Malaysia and Vietnam, as well as the largest
cable-TV operator in the Philippines.
compared with an average estimate of 25.4 billion kroner.  Oslo-based Telenor, the Nordic region’s biggest phone
company by revenue, has wireless assets in Asia countries
including Malaysia, Thailand and Bangladesh.  “We believe that we are well-positioned to contribute in
developing a successful mobile industry in Myanmar,” Glenn
Mandelid, a spokesman based in Thailand, said via e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Barry Porter in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Kyaw Thu in Bangkok at 
 kthu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  