-- ‘Bible’ Miniseries Draws 13.1 Million Viewers on History
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2013-03-05T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/-bible-miniseries-draws-13-1-million-viewers-on-history.html
“The Bible,” the History channel
miniseries by “Survivor” creator  Mark Burnett , drew the
network’s biggest audience of the year in its premiere after a
months-long campaign to promote the show to Christian audiences.  The first of five two-hour episodes drew 13.1 million
viewers, New York-based History said yesterday in a statement.
Last year’s premiere of “Hatfields & McCoys,” with 13.9
million, was the network’s most-watched program ever. History is
part of A&E Television Networks LLC, owned jointly by  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS)  and Hearst Corp.  Burnett, an avowed Christian, and his wife, “Touched by an
Angel” star Roma Downey, shot the series over six months in
 Morocco  and enlisted pastors Rick Warren and Joel Osteen, and
Cardinal Donald Wuerl, Archbishop of  Washington , to connect with
Christian audiences. The, strategy pioneered by  Mel Gibson  with
his theatrical film “The Passion of the Christ,” culminated
with a presentation to 500 clergy on March 2.  “We believe our Bible series has the potential to reach
not only those who already go to church but could reach a whole
new generation of people who have never been to church,”
Burnett said in a video posted on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube.
“People that may never have read the Bible will get to see
those Bible stories in this series.”  To promote the series, Burnett reached out to Protestant
and Roman Catholic church leaders, touting the project as a
teaching aid for use in sermons and weekly study groups.
Gibson’s “The Passion of the Christ” cost $30 million and
generated $612 million in worldwide ticket sales, according to
Box Office Mojo.  Small Budgets  Smaller faith-affirming films, such as “Fireproof”  have
also successfully based marketing on outreach to churches, said
Ted Baehr, chairman of the Christian Film & Television
Commission, a group that advises studios.  “Fireproof” was made for $500,000 and had sales of $33.5
million. Religious audiences trust a minister’s recommendation
more than studio ads or reviews by mainstream critics, he said.  “The market exists. You’ve just got to reach them through
the venues that they are using,” Baehr said. “You have to get
to what they watch and where they go.”  At the March 2 meeting, Warren, head of Saddleback Church
in  Lake Forest ,  California , told the audience of about 500 he
would shape his next five Sunday sermons around the series. He
urged clergy, including others watching a webcast of the event,
to do the same.  “Don’t miss this opportunity,” Warren said. “This is a
wave. Part of leadership is catching the wave. God is about to
do something really great.”  Easter Sunday  Episodes will air every week on History, culminating March
31, Easter Sunday. Lifetime, another A&E Television Networks
channel, will air repeats of episodes.  The series was made for about $22 million, said Burnett,
who also produces reality shows including “The Apprentice” and
“The Voice” on  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC and “Shark Tank” on
Disney’s ABC. Burnett said in the video his success paved the
way for him to produce the series and recruit History as a
distribution partner.  “All of these No. 1 shows, five shows right now, that
allowed us to go into the powers within Hollywood to say we
wanted to make a faithful Bible miniseries,” Burnett said on a
Feb. 12 webcast for pastors. “It takes a level of that success
within the television business and film to have people pay
attention and give you a chance.”  ‘Exciting Footage’  “We’ve told the stories of the Bible in a way to grab
viewers’ attention and draw them in to want to know more,”
Downey said in the video. “The footage is exciting, it’s
compelling, poignant and powerful. Our hope is this series will
reach millions of people around the world.”  The couple hired Portuguese TV star Diogo Morgado as Jesus,
and used special effects firms that work on Hollywood films. In
addition to producing and directing, Downey also stars as Mother
Mary.  The series will also be shown outside the U.S., and DVDs be
on sale in April, according to History. The scripts will bound
together into a book and a portion will be edited into a
theatrically released film. Burnett and Downey also plan to make
the series available for religious education programs.  Disney, based in  Burbank , California, gained 0.9 percent to
$55.80 yesterday in  New York . The  stock  has climbed 12 percent
this year. Closely held Hearst is based in New York and is also
a 20 percent partner in Disney’s ESPN.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  