-- ‘Cinderella’ Charms as Show Turns Into Pumpkin: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2013-03-04T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/-cinderella-charms-as-show-turns-into-pumpkin-review.html
You can see light beaming from Laura
Osnes at the Broadway Theatre, where she’s playing the
Cinderella of any girl’s fantasy.  Last seen in a flop called “Bonnie and Clyde,” Osnes has
doe-eyed charm, a lovely soprano and whatever it is that
separates a star from the chorus without trumpeting the fact.  And in this first-ever Broadway production of “ Rodgers +
Hammerstein’s Cinderella ” she shimmers -- even when just about
everything around her is flying off the rails.  Where to begin? Let’s take the “Corner” song.  Written in 1957 as a TV vehicle for  Julie Andrews  (and
later reprised by Leslie Ann Warren and then the singer Brandy),
the show and its best-known song are familiar to several
generations of children and the parents they’ve become.  Coming early in Act I, “In My Own Little Corner” is the
reverie of a forlorn child who finds comfort in the privacy of
her room.  At the Broadway, the heroine delivers it from the steps of
the cottage she shares with her stepmother and stepsisters. A
looming forest surrounds her; cutesy puppet animals peer from
the flora as Cinderella sings, “I know of a spot in my
house/Where no one can stand in my way/In my own little
corner/In my own little chair...”  No corner. No chair. Setting this number outside is just
clueless.  Director’s Inexperience  Director Mark Brokaw’s inexperience with musicals is ever
evident in an over-busy, over-decorated staging of a show whose
chief virtue is simplicity.  Set designer Anna Louizos (“In the Heights”) usually
achieves a winsome balance between realism and humor. What
happened? We see a distracting procession of flat and tacky-
looking sets -- forest, cottage, palace -- constantly moving on
and off the stage. Even the pumpkin-to-coach trick is a letdown,
as the squash disappears and a rather ungainly glittery carriage
emerges from the wings.  More mortifying, the show has been campified with a new
book by Douglas Carter Beane, which is sort of like hiring  Matt Stone  and  Trey Parker  to update “Bambi.”  When the Prince’s adviser Sebastian (Peter Bartlett)
announces at the ball, “It’s time to play Ridicule! Everyone
take sides!” we’re suddenly watching a snarky episode of “Real
Housewives of Fairyland.”  Inane Subplot  Beane adds an inane subplot involving a rabble-rouser who
seems to exist just so that the plotting Sebastian can say to
the Prince things like, “Your parents had the good fortune to
be royalty in a time of plenty. But since their unfortunate
demise, I have done my best to run this country. I’ve done my
best to raise you in the finest schools.”  Harriet Harris has a gleeful meanness as the step-mother
and Ann Harada rocks as the vacant and vicious step-sister,
though both actress’s shtick quickly grows tiresome.  Beane has softened the second step-sister, played with
sincerity by Marla Mindelle, making her Cinderella’s confidant
and accomplice. Even this is jarring.  The score (already, to be generous, second-tier Rodgers and
Hammerstein) is padded with four extra songs from their trunk. I
guess to justify the intermission.  Osnes isn’t the only enjoyable presence. Victoria Clark is
a game Fairy Godmother, leading the show’s second big number,
“Impossible.” (Too bad that sublime costumier William Ivey Long has adorned her with hideous purple wings and space-bunny
antennae).  Santino Fontana is winning as the boyish but enlightened
prince, named Topher. I only wish we didn’t have to first
encounter him as Topher slays a rampaging giant forest creature,
the Abominable Oak Man. Really, any old dragon would do.  At the Broadway Theatre, Broadway at W. 53rd Street.
Information: +1- 212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com .
Rating: **  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine and  Lance
Esplund  on art.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 