-- ‘Giant Slayer’ Falls Short as Top Weekend Film
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2013-03-04T22:18:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/-giant-slayer-is-top-weekend-film-on-sales-of-28-million.html
“Jack the Giant Slayer,” a $200
million 3-D re-imagination of a children’s fairy tale,
registered a disappointing $27.2 million in weekend sales for
 Warner Bros .’ New Line Cinema and partner Legendary Pictures.  The picture, while opening in first place, took in less
than comparable titles including last March’s box-office flop
“ John Carter ,” according to Box Office Mojo, which estimated
the film’s cost. The studio probably will have to take a write-
off on the movie, said Brett Harriss, an analyst with Gabelli &
Co. in Rye,  New York .  Hollywood studios have been mining old fantasy films as
sources of new pictures, reinterpreting stories for today’s
audiences. This weekend,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  will release “Oz the
Great and Powerful,” a prequel to the 1939 classic. Warner
Bros., part of Time Warner Inc., will have to count on foreign
revenue to make up the domestic shortfall for “Jack.”  “‘Jack’ was a huge gamble costing more than many summer
blockbusters,” Gitesh Pandya, editor of Box Office Guru, wrote
on his website. “Outside of action sequels and anything  James
Cameron  feels like making, few original films carry budgets like
this.”  Disappointing sales for “Jack the Giant Slayer” come
during a transition at Warner Bros. Kevin Tsujihara, former head
of home entertainment, took over as chief executive officer on
March 1 after more than two years sharing an office of the CEO
with Jeff Robinov, who runs motion pictures, and Bruce Rosenblum, president of  Warner Bros. Television .  Film Write-Off  The studio will probably be forced to write off some of the
film’s costs, said Harriss, who  recommends  buying Time Warner
shares.  “A write-off would be bad, but the movie business is
pretty small for Time Warner compared to  HBO , their television
networks and their television production company,” he said.  International sales from U.S. films can produce double the
revenue they generate at home, giving studios a second
opportunity to recoup production costs.  “Internationally, we’ll do very well,” said Jeff
Goldstein, executive vice president of domestic distribution at
Warner. “Movies that are a little bit light in one segment can
way over-deliver in another.”  Another New Line movie, ‘The Hobbit: An Unexpected
Journey,’’ produced with Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc., crossed the
$1 billion mark this weekend, the company said. The film has
taken in $700 million internationally, in addition to $301
million in the U.S., according to Box Office Mojo. The movie
cost $180 million, according to the Internet Movie Database, a
sister website that also tracks movie costs and performance.  Co-Producers  “Jack the Giant Slayer” was co-produced by Legendary,
which operates from the Warner lot in  Burbank ,  California , and
its CEO Thomas Tull, who produced the profitable Batman
franchise with the studio. The company declined to comment.  The independent company recently began producing films on
its own, retaining  Warner Bros. (TWX)  as distributor. The Jackie
Robinson biography “42” is scheduled for release in April, and
“Godzilla” in May 2014.  Legendary raised more than $700 million last year to
finance its expansion. The company’s co-production deal with
Warner Bros. expires at the end of the year.  “Jack the Giant Slayer” had been predicted to gross about
$30 million, the estimate of  Hollywood.com Box-Office .  In “Jack,” from director Bryan Singer, the fairy tale
expands beyond the original “Jack and the Beanstalk” with the
rekindling of ancient war between humans and a race of
bloodthirsty giants.  Giant Slayer  Nicholas Hoult, who played Beast in “X-Men: First Class,”
portrays Jack. The film also features Eleanor Tomlinson as the
princess Jack encounters on his adventure and  Ewan McGregor  as
Elmont, a warrior who helps Jack take on the giants.  Among other new films last weekend, the raunchy comedy “21
& Over” was third in its debut with sales of $8.8 million for
Relativity Media.  “The Last Exorcism Part II” opened in fifth place, taking
in $7.7 million for  CBS Films. (CBS)  Ashley Bell returns as Nell
Sweetzer, the central figure of 2010’s “The Last Exorcism.”  Revenue for the top 12 films fell 39 percent to $92.8
million from the year-earlier weekend, Hollywood.com said. Sales
this year are down 7.9 percent to $1.55 billion. Attendance is
down 8.9 percent.  This year “has a lot to live up to because 2012 was a
record year in terms of the North American box office,” said
Phil Contrino, vice president and chief analyst for
Boxoffice.com. “There were some really strong movies that
opened at the end of 2011 and spilled over into 2012; I don’t
think the first quarter of 2013 had the same boost as the
previous year did.”  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for
March 1 to March 3.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Peter S. Green in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  