-- Tame Impala Brings Sonic Magic to Terminal 5: NYC Music
-- B y   J a i m e   W i d d e r
-- 2013-03-04T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/tm-impala-brings-sonic-magic-to-terminal-5-nyc-music.html
The band Tame Impala describes its
music as “psychedelic hypno-groove melodic rock.” It certainly
went down well with the glassy-eyed crowd and telltale aroma
that filled  Terminal 5  on Feb. 19.  The four Australians and one Frenchman were kicking off
their 2013 North American tour. A screen above them showed
swirly lines reminiscent of a Spirograph. On the stage floor
awaiting the bare feet of lead guitarist  Kevin Parker  sat an
array of effects pedals.  Parker deployed the spacey notes opening “Apocalypse
Dreams” and a voice steeped in reverb, backed by a tight
rhythm, a steady bass line from Nick Allbrook and solid
keyboards. The tune swelled into a wall of sound before a
brief pause at its climax -- and then the band jumped back
in as Parker fell to his knees for adorational jamming. The
trippy and fluid number left the crowd wrapped in the
band’s power.  Parker quickly moved into “Solitude Is Bliss,” a standout
number from the 2010 debut record, “Innerspeaker.” Parker and
guitarist Dominic Simper let their instruments playfully weave
around each other as keyboardist Jay Watson kept the pulse and
flailed his hair about in the throes of sonic possession.  Coming on the scene a few years back, the youthful group,
whose founding four members hail from Perth,  Australia , made a
splash with its neo-psychedelic pop sound. Last year’s highly
and rightfully touted sophomore album, “ Lonerism ,” exposed
them to the masses. It also happened to be my favorite disk of
the year.  Heavy Keys  The record builds upon their fondness for the music of the
1960s and heavy doses of keys. The band altered its lineup by
moving Watson from drums to keyboards and adding drummer Julien
Barbagallo, the Frenchman.  At Terminal 5, the new record’s “Endors Toi” had both
Simper and Watson on keys before Simper slipped back to his
guitar, and both he and Parker chopped away until Watson and
Barbagallo took over with a break-beat remix-style jam that
moved the crowd back and forth -- like a puppeteer maneuvering
his little friends.  On “Elephant,” a hard-rocking number, the group matched
the recording’s jagged guitar riffs, then moved into an avant-
garde jazzy jam, worked back into the main rhythm and suddenly
ended. The rug was playfully pulled out.  “Feels Like We Only Go Backwards” featured Parker’s spot-
on John Lennon voice carrying a late-’60s easy-flowing Beatles-
like ditty. The short tune drew some of the biggest cheers.  Stretching Out  The set-closing “Half Full Glass of Wine” offered the
guys a canvas to stretch out. As Barbagallo tapped cymbals,
Parker, Simper, and Watson all took to the guitars. Deep and
dark chords were followed by Parker’s wobbly vocal and then a
call-and-response jam as the quintet rocked with heads down. For
10 minutes the crowd bounced along with the music.  The encore was a live debut of “Nothing That Has Happened
So Far Has Been Anything We Could Control” from “Lonerism.”
Keys blossomed and the beat was big. Parker played in unison
with the projectors’ looped lines, while Watson slowly worked
the piano into a gentle landing for us all.  Tame Impala continue their  North America  tour through March
and will be returning to the U.S. for a few dates in spring,
including some of the premiere music festivals: Coachella,
Sasquatch and Bonnaroo.  Here’s a selection of New York-area shows in March. Please
note that opening bands aren’t always listed. Shows marked (SO)
are sold out, although online services such as Craigslist often
have tickets.  (Jaime Widder works in sales for  Bloomberg News . Any
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Jaime Widder in  New York  at 
 jwidder@bloomberg.net  or @Widder_Twidder.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 