-- ‘Investor’s Revenge’ Depresses CMBS Values, Deutsche Bank Says
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2013-03-04T19:01:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/-investor-s-revenge-depresses-cmbs-values-deutsche-bank-says.html
Wall Street banks struggled to
unload commercial-mortgage bonds last month as $10 billion in
new deals swamped investors.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. last week issued securities ranked
BBB-, the lowest investment-grade level, to yield 390 basis
points more than the benchmark swap rate, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Wells Fargo & Co. and Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc sold similar notes paying 300 basis points
more than swaps on Jan. 28, the data show. The trend reversed
from the prior month when prices climbed as much as 15 percent.  “The weakness can be attributed to the glut of primary
supply, investor apathy and the enormity of January’s rally,”
Deutsche Bank AG analysts led by Harris Trifon said in a report
last week. “February should be called ‘investor’s revenge.”’  Demand for bonds tied to skyscrapers, shopping malls and
hotels is showing signs of buckling as sales surge to the
highest in five years. JPMorgan Chase raised its 2013 CMBS
issuance forecast to $70 billion from $45 billion as offerings
in January and February exceeded expectations.  The recent sell-off has been a “healthy development” for
the market, according to Deutsche Bank, allowing for a rebound
in values as the first quarter draws to a close. Buyers have
been drawn to commercial-mortgage backed securities as the
Federal Reserve keeps interest rates close to zero into a fifth
year, pushing investors toward riskier assets.  Looser Standards  The flood of deals is set to slow this month, according to
Bank of America Corp. Waning demand for the riskier portions of
new offerings may be due in part to concerns that underwriting
standards are slipping, Bank of America analysts led by Alan Todd said in a March 1 report. The rise of so-called interest-
only, or IO, loans is the most pronounced example of looser
standards, the analysts said.  “The trend we remain most concerned about - the increased
amount of IO loans in recent deals - shows few signs of
abating,” the New York-based analysts said.  Interest-only mortgages delay principal payments for part
or all of loans’ terms, making it harder to refinance a mortgage
at maturity. This type of debt accounts for 49 percent of loans
packaged into commercial-mortgage backed securities this year,
up from 34 percent in 2012, according to Bank of America. In
2007, when sales peaked and underwriting standards bottomed, 88
percent of commercial mortgages contained in CMBS were interest-
only, the data show.  CMBS sales are reviving after shutting down in 2008 when
credit markets froze. A record $232 billion of the debt was
issued in 2007, data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  