-- A. Schulman Makes $563 Million Bid Chemical Maker Ferro
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-03-04T21:47:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/a-schulman-makes-563-million-bid-chemical-maker-ferro.html
A. Schulman Inc. (SHLM) , a U.S. plastics
maker, made an unsolicited offer to acquire  Ferro Corp. (FOE)  for $563
million in cash and stock to expand into chemicals used in
electronics and coatings.  Ferro shareholders would receive $6.50 a share, half in
cash and half in Schulman stock, Akron, Ohio-based Schulman said
today in a statement. Ferro directors unanimously rejected the
offer, the Mayfield Heights, Ohio-based company said in a
separate statement today. The bid is 25 percent higher than
Ferro’s closing price on March 1, valuing Ferro at $855 million
including assumption of debt.  Schulman Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Joseph M. Gingo is trying to acquire Ferro while it operates with an
interim CEO and battles investor efforts to nominate a slate of
directors because of company “under performance.” FrontFour
Capital Group LLC and Quinpario Partners LLC announced plans in
January to nominate three people to Ferro’s board.  “We believe Ferro’s shares will trade above the offer
price as it is likely a starting point for Schulman and likely
pushes any other interested parties to enter the bidding,”
 Chris Shaw , a New York-based analyst at Monness Crespi Hardt &
Co., said in a note today.  Ferro rose 31 percent to $6.80 at the close in  New York ,
the most since July 15, 2009. The shares have climbed 63 percent
this year.  The takeover bid is not in the best interest of
shareholders, who should take no action, Ferro said in the
statement.  First Contact  Schulman first contacted Ferro in November and sent a
letter on Feb. 13 expressing “strong intent” in pursuing the
merger. The offer may be adjusted as the company reviews Ferro’s
business through due diligence, Schulman said.  An offer of about $7.50 a share would probably get Ferro
“interested,” John McNulty, a New York-based analyst at Credit
Suisse Group AG who rates Ferro equivalent to a hold, said in a
note today.  The offer is 6.8 times 2013 earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, Shaw said. Accounting for
$35 million in cost savings forecast by Schulman, the bid is 5.3
times Ebitda, he said.  Ferro operates units that make electronic materials,
coatings, ceramics, plastics, plastic additives and
pharmaceuticals. Schulman said all the units except
pharmaceuticals align with the company’s “core competencies.”  Ferro’s businesses don’t have significant overlap with
Schulman, except the specialty plastics unit, said Shaw, who
rates Ferro neutral and doesn’t rate Schulman.  Ferro’s financial adviser is Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
its legal adviser is  Jones Day .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  