-- Hagel Vows Pentagon to Help Combat Iran’s ‘Malign’ Role
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-03-04T20:18:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/hagel-vows-pentagon-to-help-combat-iran-s-malign-role.html
U.S. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel
has vowed to Congress that he’ll “focus intently on countering
 Iran ’s malign influence.”  “Serious contingency planning” by the Pentagon will
complement the Obama administration’s strategy of using economic
sanctions “with the objective of preventing Iran from acquiring
a nuclear weapon,” Hagel said in previously unreleased written
answers to the Senate Armed Services Committee after his January
confirmation hearing.  Hagel replied in writing to questions from the lawmakers as
part of an effort that eventually led to his Senate confirmation
in the face of substantial Republican opposition. Hagel, a
former senator from  Nebraska , was confirmed on a 58-41 vote last
month after a bruising fight over his past positions, from
criticizing the influence of what he once called the “Jewish
lobby” to opposing unilateral sanctions against Iran.  The answers to the Armed Services Committee’s chairman,
Democratic Senator  Carl Levin  of  Michigan , and its top
Republican, Senator  James Inhofe  of  Oklahoma , contain stronger
language about Iran and the need to counter its activity than
Hagel used in his testimony.  “Iran’s activities are malevolent and intended to be
destabilizing,” Hagel wrote.  The Pentagon has a role in supporting diplomatic and
intelligence efforts to “inhibit” Iranian proxies and
terrorist groups and to “leverage its presence in the region to
deter and, when directed by the president, disrupt malign
activities,” Hagel wrote.  Stuxnet Virus  U.S. actions against Iran could include offensive cyber
operations “if directed by the president,” Hagel wrote.  Iran has blamed the U.S. and  Israel  for the Stuxnet
computer virus that hit in 2010 and damaged centrifuges at its
Natanz uranium enrichment plant. Lawmakers have criticized the
Obama administration for leaking a report to the  New York  Times
that the president ordered the cyber attack.  On the broader prospect of engaging in offensive cyber
operations, Hagel said “I will ensure that” the Pentagon
provides the White House “with a broad range of military
options.”  During his nomination hearing, Hagel was questioned about
past votes and statements concerning Iran, such as voting
against a measure designating its Islamic Revolutionary Guard
Corps as a terrorist organization.  Hagel also was faulted by several Republicans for refusing
to sign a congressional letter to the European Union urging it
to designate the militant Islamist group Hezbollah a terrorist
organization.  Iranian Comment  An Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman said in January that
his country hoped Hagel’s nomination by President  Barack Obama 
indicated U.S. officials favored peace. The comment prompted
Inhofe to ask Hagel during the confirmation hearing, “Why do
you think that the Iranian Foreign Ministry so strongly supports
your nomination to be the secretary of defense?”  “I have a difficult enough time with American politics,”
Hagel said. “Senator, I have no idea.”  Hagel said in the written answers that he’d “make it a
priority to assess the adequacy of our missile defense posture”
in the  Middle East  and “encourage our allies to continue to
make investments” in defensive systems to counter Iran.  The Pentagon said in a June report that Iran’s military
continues to improve the accuracy and killing power of its long-
and short-range ballistic missile force, including designing a
maneuverable weapon to target vessels.  Hagel also said he supported deployment to Israel of a
 Raytheon Co. (RTN)  TPY-2 ground-based air defense radar as well as
cooperation on ship-based missile defenses.  Hagel is scheduled to meet tomorrow with Israeli Minister
of Defense Ehud Barak, his first foreign visitor since
succeeding  Leon Panetta  as Pentagon chief.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  