-- Air-Traffic Error Probes Cut as U.S. Close Calls Rise
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-03-04T19:51:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/air-traffic-error-probes-cut-as-u-s-close-calls-rise.html
U.S. aviation regulators don’t have
enough investigators to examine close calls in the skies, which
have increased more than 50 percent since 2009, according to a
 report  by the Transportation Department’s Inspector General.  The  Federal Aviation Administration  has reduced the number
of employees reviewing these safety cases even as air-traffic
errors that bring planes too close together have jumped, and as
new technology is expected to uncover more such incidents, the
report found.  “With the implementation of FAA’s new procedures, the
number of personnel investigating losses of separation has been
substantially reduced,” the agency said in the report.  The report is the latest to examine the surge in errors
that let planes get too close, also known as a “loss of
separation.” Those errors rose 53 percent in fiscal 2010
compared with 2009, to 1,887 from 1,234. There were 1,895
controller errors in 2011.  The FAA has maintained that most of the rise is due to
improved reporting and not an actual increase in the risks of
mid-air or runway collisions. The agency in recent years has
started allowing controllers to self-report errors without fear
of punishment, a program airlines have used for decades to
identify safety issues.  The report by Assistant Inspector General Jeffrey Guzzetti
found that at least some of the increase is due to an actual
rise in the number of incidents.  ‘Significant Challenges’  The report was released as the FAA prepares to close as
many as 238 airport towers and require its 15,000 controllers to
take furlough days because of automatic cuts triggered March 1
when lawmakers failed to reach a budget deal. The cuts could
force airports in  Chicago  and Atlanta to close runways and will
cause flight delays, according to the agency.  In January 2012, the FAA consolidated error investigations
into three offices across the country with 16 people to do the
reviews, according to the report. Previously, at least one
person in each of the 300  air-traffic  control facilities in the
U.S. was assigned to review error reports.  The FAA faces “significant challenges” as a result of
that decision, according to the report. Investigators in
centralized locations may not understand each air-traffic
facility’s local practices, making reviews more difficult, it
said.  Automatic Tracking  The FAA is also expecting an additional jump in error
reports as a new automated system goes online across the
country. The system automatically tracks errors in radar rooms
covering flights near airports, where such incidents were
previously reported manually.  The agency plans to hire additional investigators,
according to the report.  The new error-monitoring system will improve the agency’s
ability to spot safety trends and respond, it said in an e-mail
statement on the report.  “Validation and analysis have greatly enhanced the
agency’s ability to identify and prioritize risk, then mitigate
it through the most effective means available,” the FAA said in
the statement.  The statement didn’t address whether the error
investigators will be subject to furloughs imposed on FAA
employees. FAA Administrator Michael Huerta has said the
furloughs won’t compromise safety.  Safety Measure  The FAA’s system of tracking errors and encouraging
employees to report issues has improved safety,  Doug Church ,
spokesman for the Washington-based National Air Traffic
Controllers Association union, said in an e-mail. FAA cuts could
undermine that, Church said.  “These budget cuts may stymie the efforts of air-traffic
controllers and the FAA to move safety reporting systems forward
with updated technologies and procedures,” Church said.  Allowing two planes to get too close together is a key
safety measure of the air-traffic system and draws attention
when incidents come to light.  On July 31, a miscommunication caused a controller at
Washington’s Reagan National Airport to clear two regional jets
to take off toward an arriving flight.  The Inspector General’s report also found evidence that
more errors are occurring than the FAA has reported.  Many incidents that controllers voluntarily disclose aren’t
included in the agency’s totals because of confidentiality
rules, the report found.  Unreported Errors  The Inspector General also discovered that 157 incidents in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina , weren’t included in FAA totals.  In August 2011, 157 planes took off and landed on a runway
at Charlotte-Douglas International Airport while a disabled
commercial aircraft intruded into the runway’s safety zone,
according to the report.  Senior FAA officials decided not to count the incidents
because they concluded that safety wasn’t compromised, according
to the report.  The errors that were counted in 2011 represented an
increase of less than 1 percent. If the 157 incidents in
Charlotte had been included, the increase would have been 9
percent.  “Until FAA takes action to determine the true magnitude of
operational errors, assess their potential safety impacts,
identify their root causes, and align adequate staffing for
oversight, the risk of separation losses will remain a safety
concern,” the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in  Washington  at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  