-- HSBC Among Banks Said to Agree $4 Billion Al Jaber Debt Deal
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-03-05T09:30:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/al-jaber-said-to-agree-4-billion-debt-deal-with-hsbc-creditors.html
Al Jaber  Group, a family-owned
industrial group in Abu Dhabi, reached a deal with creditors
including  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  to restructure about $4 billion of
debt, according to two people familiar with the matter.  The company agreed with its five main lenders on terms,
including loan repayments over five years, according to the
people, who asked not to be identified because the information
is private. The debt, which includes both conventional and
Islamic facilities, will pay annual interest of between 300
basis points, or 3 percentage points, to 400 basis points over
the London Interbank Offered Rate, one of the people said.  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC ,  Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank
PJSC (ADCB) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and  Union National Bank 
PJSC make up the coordinating committee with HSBC negotiating
the new terms on behalf of about 30 lenders, one of the bankers
said. The deal will result in no loan losses, he said.  Al Jaber, whose interests span construction, engineering
and shipping, is one of several United Arab Emirates companies
restructuring loans after a crash in property prices sparked by
the global credit crisis. Dubai World, one of Dubai’s three main
holding companies, reached a deal with creditors in 2011 to
delay payments on about $15 billion of bank loans.  A spokesman for Al Jaber Group, who asked not to be
identified because of company policy, declined to comment.
Spokesmen for HSBC, RBS and Union National Bank also declined to
comment. Spokesmen for National Bank of  Abu Dhabi  and Abu Dhabi
Commercial Bank couldn’t immediately be reached.  Total Debt  Al Jaber’s total debt of about 15 billion dirhams ($4
billion) includes about 7.5 billion dirhams of loans and
overdrafts, while the rest is so-called unfunded facilities
including performance bonds and guarantees, according to the
banker. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and Allen & Overy LLP advised
the bank group on the restructuring while NM Rothschild & Sons
Ltd and Norton Rose LLP advised Al Jaber Group.  The new facilities have a quarterly amortizing schedule and
require no asset sales by the group, although Al Jaber said it
will continuously evaluate options to sell non-core assets,
according to one of the people. The proposal has now been
presented to the wider lender group for approval, he said.  Al Jaber Group, which has assets of 18 billion dirhams,
will sell 60 percent of its defense business, Al Jaber Land
Systems, to Abu Dhabi’s Tawazun Holding, The National daily
reported Feb. 12 citing people familiar with the matter.  Diversification  The U.A.E., which holds more than 7 percent of the world’s
oil reserves, had one of the world’s worst property crashes in
the aftermath of the global credit crisis. Abu Dhabi and Dubai,
the country’s two biggest emirates, plan to spend billions of
dollars in real-estate, transport infrastructure and industry as
part of a plan to diversify their economies away from oil.  Dubai Group LLC, an  investment company  owned by the
emirate’s ruler, is another company close to completing a deal
with about 35 lenders on restructuring $6 billion of bank debt,
two bankers familiar with the matter said in February. That
agreement includes an extension of some loan maturities to 12
years and payment of below-market interest rates of between 1
percent and 2.5 percent, according to the bankers.  The debt restructuring deal has led to loan losses at Dubai
Group’s lenders.  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) , the U.A.E.’s biggest bank by
assets, said Jan. 31 it had set aside 54 percent of the value of
its Dubai Group’s loans, or 2.51 billion dirhams ($683 million),
to cover for losses as a result of the restructuring.  Dow Jones reported yesterday that the Al Jaber Group had
reached an agreement with the coordination committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  