-- Alro Urges Romanian Government to Cut Renewable Energy Incentive
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2013-03-04T10:32:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/alro-urges-romanian-government-to-cut-renewable-energy-incentive.html
Alro SA (ALR) , a Romanian aluminum
producer, is urging the government to cut incentives granted for
investments in renewable energy after its power costs surged,
pushing the company into a loss.  The Slatina-based smelter, owned by  Vimetco NV (VICO) , said a
government program that grants green certificates for each
megawatt-hour of power produced from wind, solar or biomass,
will generate an additional cost for the company of about $44
million this year.  “We think the renewable energy producers should operate in
a free market, with no state incentives,” Marian Nastase,
Alro’s chairman, told reporters in Bucharest today.  Romania  plans to scale back renewable-power subsidies to
limit electricity-price increases for consumers by changing its
incentive program in July or at the beginning of next year,
Minister-Delegate for Energy Constantin Nita said in a Feb. 28
interview. It intends to cut the maximum value of green
certificates granted for clean-energy generation and also lower
the number of certificates, he said.  The plan to rein in support for renewables follows similar
moves in  Spain ,  France ,  Italy  and the U.K., where debt-strapped
governments have reduced aid to avoid overcompensating companies
and to curb power-price increases for households and businesses.  Romania, which offers two green certificates for each
megawatt-hour generated from wind, may cut the number to one or
1.5, and for solar to 3.5 from six, Ziarul Financiar reported,
citing an unpublished draft law. Their maximum value may drop to
30 euros ($39) from 55 euros, the newspaper said.  Alro said it recorded a loss of 170 million lei ($51
million) last year after its power costs increased by 172
million lei to 831 million lei in 2012.  Nastase said Alro will “have a more prudent approach” to
its plan to build a 250-megawatt gas-fired power plant because
of the “unfavorable environment.” The investment plan will
cost about 280 million euros, according to Chief Executive
Officer Gheorghe Dobra.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  