-- Manchester City Beats Villa to Cut Premier League Gap to United
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-03-05T00:21:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/manchester-city-beats-aston-villa-1-0-in-soccer-s-premier-league.html
Carlos Tevez  scored the only goal as
 Manchester City  won at relegation-threatened  Aston Villa  to cut
the gap to Premier League leader Manchester United to 12 points.  Tevez, who replaced the injured  Sergio Aguero  in the
starting lineup, scored in first-half stoppage time at  Villa
Park  last night after Edin Dzeko stole the ball following a slip
in possession by home defender Ciaran Clark.  The win lifted defending champion City to 59 points in
second place through 28 of 38 matches, five clear of third-place
Tottenham. Villa remained 18th in the 20-team standings after
slumping to its seventh home defeat of the season.  “For us it was important to stay 12 behind United, with 10
games left you never say never,” City manager  Roberto Mancini ,
whose team made up an eight-point gap with six games left to
beat its local rival to the title last season, told  Sky Sports .
“Keep on winning and you never know, this is football.”  Record 19-time champion United had gone 15 points ahead two
days ago with a 4-0 home win against Norwich.  Tevez, who denied Villa a 21st-minute lead last night when
he cleared Christian Benteke’s header off the goal line, got the
decisive goal on the stroke of halftime.  Clark was caught in possession by Dzeko when trying to turn
away and appealed for a foul as the Bosnian striker passed to
Tevez, who cut back past goalkeeper Brad Guzan before shooting
past Clark on the goal line.  Goal Disallowed  Tevez had a second-half shot cleared off the line by
Matthew Lowton and Yaya Toure almost doubled City’s lead when he
hit the post with a shot from the edge of the penalty area in
the 72nd minute. Although Dzeko fired the rebound into the net,
the goal was disallowed for offside.  Villa tried to build some pressure in the final stages, and
couldn’t create a clear chance. Lowton sliced a stoppage-time
corner kick straight out for a goal kick as Villa remained in
the three-team relegation zone behind 17th-place Wigan on goal
difference.  With 30 points left to play for, City next visits Everton
on March 16 before hosting  Newcastle United  two weeks later. The
Blues then travel to Old Trafford on April 8 to take on United.  “There is nothing we can do about United, but we can just
keep winning games and who knows?” City defender  Gael Clichy 
told his club’s website. “In the Premier League three or four
matches can make everything look very different.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  