-- Hang Seng Bank Loan Growth May Stabilize on Hong Kong Curbs
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2013-03-05T01:36:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/hang-seng-bank-profit-jumps-beating-estimates-on-lending-2-.html
Hang Seng Bank Ltd. (11) , the Hong Kong
lender controlled by  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , says loan growth may
stabilize this year as the city imposes restrictions on mortgage
lending to cool housing prices.  The bank’s lending grew by 11 percent last year, faster
than the industry average, helping push net income up 15 percent
to HK$19.4 billion ($2.5 billion), above analyst estimates. Hang
Seng forecasts “stable” loan growth in 2013, Chief Executive
Officer Rose Lee told reporters in Hong Kong yesterday,
declining to provide precise figures.  Since taking office in July, Hong Kong Chief Executive
Leung Chun-ying has added property taxes, favored local
permanent residents over foreigners, tightened mortgages and
increased supply after home prices doubled in the past four
years. While the measures are aimed at speculators, Hang Seng’s
clients are mainly buying homes to occupy, Lee said.  “Banks in Hong Kong generally will have to think carefully
about mortgage lending in 2013, as any new loans will be subject
to a much higher risk weighting,” Jim Antos, an analyst at
Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd., said in an e-mail. Hang Seng’s
lending growth rate “could reach 12 percent in 2013, despite
recent anti-property speculation measures.”  Hang Seng, Hong Kong’s second-largest lender by assets,
joins smaller  Bank of East Asia Ltd.  in reporting higher profit
even as lending growth in the industry slowed. Total loans at
Hong Kong retail banks grew 9.6 percent last year, about half
the rate of 2011, monetary authority data show, as the economy
expanded 1.4 percent, the slowest pace in three years.  Market Cooled  “The market has cooled down a lot right after the property
curbs,” Nixon Chan, Hang Seng’s head of retail banking and
wealth management, told reporters in Hong Kong yesterday. “Home
buyers need some time to digest the new measures and re-think
their home purchase decision.”  Hang Seng shares rose 1.9 percent to HK$128, the highest
since Feb. 20, as of 9:33 a.m. in Hong Kong trading. The stock
has climbed 7.5 percent this year, compared with a decline of
less than 0.1 percent in the city’s benchmark Hang Seng Index.  It may be “tough” for Hang Seng and other Hong Kong
lenders to maintain their 2012 growth rates, Ismael Pili, head
of Asia bank research at Macquarie Capital Securities Ltd., said
in an e-mail, “largely due to the more stringent property
measures introduced as well as my expectations that competition
may intensify going forward.”  Risk Weighting  The Hong Kong Monetary Authority on Feb. 22 told banks to
increase the risk weighting for new mortgages to 15 percent.
This will increase banks’ cost of funding and could cause
mortgage prices to gradually increase, Antos said.  Hang Seng ranked third in the city’s home loan market in
January with a 16 percent market share, according to Hong Kong-
based  mReferral Mortgage Brokerage Services . That compared with
a 17 percent share at its parent HSBC and Bank of China (Hong
Kong) Ltd.’s 19 percent.  Hang Seng Bank’s pretax profit from  mainland China
operations  rose 30 percent to HK$5.42 billion last year, it said
yesterday. The mainland business accounted for 25 percent of the
bank’s pretax profit, up from 22 percent in 2011.  The bank doesn’t see a systemic bad loan situation in
China, CEO Lee said. Instead there are individual cases of
soured debt, and Hang Seng doesn’t forecast a great
deterioration this year, she said.  Hang Seng’s net interest income, the difference between
what it makes from lending and what it pays on deposits, rose
7.7 percent to HK$16.9 billion. Net fee income, derived largely
from credit cards and selling mutual funds, increased 5.2
percent to HK$5.09 billion.  Beating Estimates  Net income of HK$19.4 billion beat the HK$17.9 billion
average estimate of 18 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The  net interest margin , a measure of lending
profitability, widened to 1.85 percent in 2012 from 1.78 percent
a year earlier, Hang Seng Bank said in yesterday’s statement.
That compares with Hong Kong retail banks’ average margin of
1.36 percent last year and 1.24 percent in 2011.  Room for improvement in Hang Seng’s margin in Hong Kong is
limited after an increase in the lending rate in the second half
of last year, Lee said yesterday. The bank’s loan margin on the
mainland may narrow because of the country’s moves to gradually
let lenders set their own interest rates, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  