-- Lansdowne Says Ruddock to Step Down as CEO at End of June
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2013-03-04T17:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/lansdowne-says-ruddock-to-step-down-as-ceo-at-end-of-june-2-.html
Lansdowne Partners Ltd., the biggest
European hedge fund focused on stock picking, said co-founder
Paul Ruddock will retire as chief executive officer at the end
of June to focus on interests outside asset management.  The firm, with $12.4 billion of assets, will start looking
for a successor, London-based Lansdowne said in a statement
today. Ruddock, 54, founded the hedge fund 15 years ago with
Steven Heinz after running the international division at U.K.
asset manager  Schroders Plc. (SDR)   Ruddock is stepping down after the Lansdowne Developed
Markets Fund, the firm’s biggest with $8.6 billion of assets,
rebounded from its worst year in 2011 to post an 18 percent gain
in 2012. The hedge fund’s wager that a global economic recovery
would benefit banks such as London-based Lloyds Banking Group
Plc proved premature in 2011, triggering a 20 percent loss.  “The firm is at a very good place,” Ruddock said in an
interview. “The amount of assets are stable and we’ve had very
little turnover in staff. Clearly, if I didn’t feel that, I
wouldn’t be stepping down.”  Lansdowne’s investment decisions won’t be affected by
Ruddock’s retirement because he ran the operations-side of the
firm, the hedge fund said in the statement.  Britain’s Queen Elizabeth II knighted Ruddock for services
to the arts and philanthropy last year. He is chairman of
London’s Victoria & Albert Museum and  New York ’s Metropolitan
Museum of Art appointed him a trustee in 2011.  The Sunday Times newspaper estimated Ruddock’s personal
wealth at about 270 million pounds ($407 million), according to
an April article. He donated 570,000 pounds to the U.K.’s ruling
 Conservative Party  between 2003 and 2011, the newspaper said.  Lansdowne’s Developed Markets Fund, managed by former
Merrill Lynch & Co. investment managers Stuart Roden and Peter Davies, has posted an average annual return of 13 percent since
its inception in August 2001, according to a letter sent to the
firm’s investors in January.  Hedge funds  focused on stocks
gained 4.8 a year on average over the same time period, while
the Standard & Poor’s Index posted annual gains of 4.1 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in  London  at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  