-- Apple, Gildan, Waterford, Google: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-03-04T11:39:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/apple-gildan-waterford-google-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s $1.05 billion victory
against  Samsung Electronics (005930)  Co. in a patent infringement case
was cut almost in half by a judge who ordered a new trial for
some Samsung products.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in  San Jose , California, in a
March 1 ruling, reduced the jury’s damages award by $450.5
million and said Samsung deserved a new trial on infringement
claims over its Galaxy Prevail and other smartphones. Koh
rejected Apple’s request to enhance the jury’s award, saying the
amount Samsung owed was heavily disputed and the jury wasn’t
bound to accept either side’s damages estimate.  “It is not the proper role of the court to second-guess
the jury’s factual determination as to the proper amount of
compensation,” Koh said in her ruling.  Apple is entitled to additional damages for sales of
infringing products that weren’t considered by the jury, Koh
ruled, saying she intends to calculate the amount beginning on
Aug. 25, the day after the jury reached its verdict. As the case
has been appealed, Koh said she would delay considering evidence
of actual post-verdict sales and pre-judgment interest until the
appeals are completed.  Koh encouraged both companies to seek appeals court review
of her March 1 order before any new trial.  Samsung and Apple, the world’s two biggest smartphone
makers, have each scored victories in patent disputes fought
over four continents since Apple accused Asia’s biggest
electronics maker of “slavishly copying” its devices. The
companies, competing for dominance of a global mobile-device
market estimated by researcher  Yankee Group  at $346 billion in
2012, are fighting over patents even as Apple remains one of
Samsung’s biggest customers.  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Apple, said the company had
no comment on the ruling. Samsung spokesman  Adam Yates  didn’t
immediately respond to e-mails seeking comment.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Gildan to Pay Trademark Damages to Berkshire Hathaway Units  Gildan Activewear Inc., a Canadian sportswear manufacturer,
was ordered to pay $1.05 million to two units of  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/B)   The order came in a trademark-infringement lawsuit Russell
Brands and Union Underwear Co. filed in federal court in
Kentucky in October. Russell and Union Underwear, which does
business as Fruit of the Loom, said Gildan substituted its own
label on the  Jerzees  clothing that had been made by Fruit of the
Loom under license from Russell.  The label switch occurred after  Dollar General Corp. (DG) 
switched suppliers for one of its product lines.  According to court papers, as part of the Dollar General
supply arrangement with Gildan, the Montreal-based company was
required to buy the remaining Jerzees inventory in the store’s
distribution centers and replace it with Gildan’s own products.  In the complaint, the Berkshire Hathaway units claimed its
labels were either partially ripped out or altered to reflect
Gildan’s trademarks.  The court ordered Gildan to pay $1 million in damages, and
$50,000 in attorney fees. Additionally, the court said the
Canadian company was barred from removing labels from or adding
its own label to Jerzees clothing. All Jerzees apparel in
Gildan’s custody or control is to be destroyed within 30 days,
the court said.  A Gildan spokesman  told the Toronto Star  that it offered
the settlement to end the litigation and didn’t admit to any
wrongdoing.  Dollar General isn’t a party to the case.  The case is Russell Brands LLC v.  Gildan Activewear Inc. (GIL) ,
1:12-cv-00176, U.S. District Court, Western District of Kentucky
(Bowling Green).  KPS Capital Partners’ Waterford Targeted in Trademark Action  The U.K.’s largest trade union has filed a complaint with
the European trademark registrar claiming that KPS Capital
Partners’ plans to start manufacturing  Waterford Crystal  in
Slovenia violates geographic name protections, the New Legal
Review  reported .  The Ireland branch of the union  Unite  has said the move to
Slovenia would cause the loss of an important skill base and
shatter the link between glass production and the local area,
according to New Legal Review.  Walter Cullen, the national coordinator for Unite said, and
the New Legal Review reported, that other areas such as
Champagne and Parma have managed to protect links between the
place name and the product manufactured there.  The union is also concerned that more than 600 skilled jobs
will be lost to Waterford if manufacturing moves to Slovenia,
according to New Legal Review.  Fender Sues Maker of ‘Authentic Vintage Replica’ Guitars  Fender Musical Instruments Co. (FNDR) , whose guitars have been
played by the late  Jimi Hendrix , Buddy Holly and  John Lennon ,
sued a Tennessee guitar maker for trademark infringement.  Keldon Swade of Franklin, Tennessee, makes replica guitars
that Fender claims infringe the company’s marks. The guitar
company said Swade also uses the company’s trademarks on its
website. Swade’s  website  says he makes “authentic vintage
replicas.”  Scottsdale, Arizona-based Fender said that it sent Swade a
cease-and-desist notice to no avail. The company claimed it’s
harmed by the guitar-maker’s actions and that the public is
confused by the unauthorized use of Fender trademarks.  It asked the court to order Swade to halt his infringement
and for the seizure and destruction of all infringing products
and promotional material. Additionally, Fender seeks awards of
money damages of as much as $2 million for each trademark it
said Swade has infringed, and attorney fees and litigation
costs.  Swade didn’t respond immediately to an e-mail sent to his
website.  The case is Fender Musical Instruments Corp. v. Swade,
2:13-cv-00431, U.S. District Court, District of  Arizona 
(Phoenix).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Google Defeats Publishers Over Web Copyright in German Vote  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and other news aggregators may continue to show
short news items on their Internet sites without being required
to pay, German lawmakers decided in a March 1 parliamentary vote
in a blow to publishers including  Axel Springer AG (SPR)  and
Bertelsmann SE.  A majority of lawmakers from Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
coalition allowed companies such as Google to display “single
words or very small text excerpts” referring to publishers’
websites at no cost. For content exceeding these limits,
publishers retain the exclusive right of use, according to the
bill.  Publishers, pressed by falling revenue from newspapers and
magazines, argued search engines and aggregators like Google
News should pay for displaying short excerpts from news stories.
Google, which doesn’t display ads on its news aggregator pages
in Europe, argued its so-called “snippets” are actually
helping publishers by driving traffic to their sites.  The bill by Germany’s Justice Ministry gives publishers one
year during which they have the sole rights to commercially use
their journalistic content. Google’s director of public policy
in Europe, Simon Hampton, in November called this a “complete
reversal of the legal situation today” and a reversal of
current Web practices.  “As a result of today’s vote, ancillary copyright in its
most damaging form has been stopped,” Google said in a
statement. “However, the best outcome for Germany would be no
new legislation because it threatens innovation, particularly
for start-ups. It’s also not necessary because publishers and
Internet companies can innovate together, just as Google has
done in many other countries.”  Google Chairman  Eric Schmidt  and French President  Francois
Hollande  earlier this year signed an agreement to settle
disputes with French news sites. Under the accord, Mountain
View, California-based Google will help publishers lift Web
advertising sales and set up a 60 million-euro ($78 million)
fund to boost their digital publishing efforts.  The search-engine operator in 2011 removed some Belgian
newspaper content from its search engine after an appeals court
upheld a 2007 ruling granted in favor of newspaper association
Copiepresse, forcing Google to remove links and snippets of
articles from Google.com and Google.be.  Google later agreed to restore French- and German-language
newspapers in Belgium to search results without displaying the
papers’ full articles.  The bill was passed in the Bundestag with 293 votes in
favor, 243 against and three abstentions.  U.S. Wins Bid to Limit Disclosure in Kim Dotcom Extradition  The U.S. won an appeal in its bid to limit the amount of
information it must turn over to Megaupload.com founder Kim Dotcom in his fight against extradition from New Zealand.  The New Zealand Court of Appeal overturned a ruling that
ordered the U.S. to provide extensive documents relating to
Dotcom’s indictment, saying the disclosure would slow
proceedings.  “If suspects were entitled to extensive disclosure of
documents on the basis that they wished to challenge the
evidence at the extradition hearing, the procedure would lose
much if not most of its efficacy,” the Court of Appeal said in
a summary of the ruling on its website March 1.  Dotcom, 39, was indicted in what U.S. prosecutors dubbed a
“mega conspiracy,” accusing his file-sharing website of
generating more than $175 million in criminal proceeds from the
exchange of pirated film, music, book and software files. He
faces as long as 20 years in prison for each of the racketeering
and money-laundering charges in the indictment, with the U.S.
seeking his extradition for a trial in Virginia.  The amount of documentation ordered to be turned over to
Dotcom was unprecedented in the country or anywhere else for
extradition cases, the U.S. had argued.  Paul Davison, one of Dotcom’s lawyers, said he plans to
appeal to New Zealand’s  Supreme Court , the  Associated Press 
reported.  Germany-born Dotcom was arrested at his home in an
Auckland, New Zealand, suburb in January last year and spent
four weeks in jail before being released to await the
extradition hearing, which is scheduled for August.  The case is between U.S. and Kim Dotcom. Civ 2012-404-3026.
 High Court  of New Zealand (Auckland).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Blue Rubicon to Work With U.K. Government Against Cybercrime  Blue Rubicon Ltd., a U.K.-based management-consulting
service, will work with that country’s Home Office’s National
Fraud Authority in a campaign against hacking and industrial
espionage,  PR Week reported .  The focus of the campaign will be both businesses and
individuals, the magazine said.  The appointment comes in the wake of a government survey
finding that the U.K. economy loses as much as 27 billion pounds
($40.6 billion) a year to cybercrime, according to PR Week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 