-- Areva CEO Says Japan May Restart Two-Thirds of Nuclear Reactors
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-03-04T13:30:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/areva-ceo-says-japan-may-restart-two-thirds-of-nuclear-reactors.html
Areva SA (AREVA) , the French maker of
nuclear reactors, wants to boost safety-equipment sales as the
company expects  Japan  to restart two-thirds of its atomic plants
that were idled after the 2011 Fukushima accident.  Half a dozen reactors may restart by the end of this year
in addition to the two that resumed operations in 2012, Areva
Chief Executive Officer Luc Oursel said at a press conference
near Paris today. “I think two-thirds of reactors will
restart” within several years.  Safety authorities are reviewing each site and the work
carried out by operators, Oursel said. Areva expects 200 million
euros ($260 million) in orders for safety equipment and services
this year, up from 150 million euros in 2012, as nuclear
operators worldwide respond to demands for higher security from
regulators, the CEO said.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe told the Diet last week he will
reopen Japan’s reactors, which once supplied about a third of
the country’s electricity, even as the approaching second
anniversary of the March 11 quake and subsequent tsunami stir
memories of the worst nuclear accident in a quarter of a
century.  Areva, which used to supply fuel for Japanese plants before
the Fukushima accident, has since sold equipment that transforms
hydrogen into water to prevent explosions in case of severe
accident, Oursel said. Paris-based Areva and partner  Kobe Steel
Ltd. (5406)  have also sold storage casks for spent fuel from the
Fukushima reactors to Tokyo Electric Power Co.  “If plants restart as we hope, Japan will recoup a
significant place” in Areva’s revenue, Oursel said.  Altogether, Areva is working on 85 safety-enhancement
projects with 42 nuclear power producers in 16 countries, Oursel
said. It will also seek to help operators extend the lifetime of
their plants, the CEO said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  