-- Maryland Sells Bonds as U.S. Begins Spending Cuts: Muni Deals
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-03-04T14:28:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/maryland-sells-bonds-as-u-s-begins-spending-cuts-muni-deals.html
Maryland  is selling about $693
million in top-rated debt as automatic federal spending cuts
begin, posing a threat to a state economy reliant on U.S.
government agencies for contracts and jobs.  The tax-exempt competitive deal will be offered in two
parts as soon as March 6, with the largest, at $500 million,
slated to fund capital projects. The second piece will refund
general-obligation bonds, and tax-supported debt will rise 4.7
percent to $11.1 billion after the sale, bond documents say.  Under a process called sequestration that began March 1,
$85 billion in federal spending cuts will be made for the fiscal
year that ends Sept. 30. In Maryland, 11 percent of personal
income came from U.S. government civilian and military
employment, compared with 3.9 percent nationwide in 2011,
according to bond documents.  Federal procurement drives 9 percent of Maryland’s gross
domestic product, according to a report by Moody’s Investors
Service. U.S. agencies account for about 5.9 percent of jobs in
the state, which has a labor force of about 3 million people,
according to bond documents.  “Federal fiscal consolidation could negatively affect
near-term growth prospects,”  Standard & Poor’s  said in a Feb.
27 report.  Meanwhile, top-rated municipal bonds have performed worse
than lower-quality debt in the past three months. AAA securities
lost about 0.6 percent in the period, compared with a gain of
about 0.1 percent for a BAA index, the lowest investment-grade
group, according to Barclays Plc data.  Susanne Brogan, Maryland’s deputy treasurer for public
policy, didn’t respond to a call for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  