-- Asian Stocks Decline as China Tightens Mortgage Rules
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2013-03-04T10:38:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/asian-stocks-rise-on-stimulus-bets-nikkei-225-rallies.html
Asian  stocks  dropped, with the
regional benchmark index heading for its second day of declines,
after  China  tightened mortgage rules to cool the  property
market . Japanese shares pared gains as trading of Nikkei 225
Stock Average derivatives was disrupted.  China Resources Land Ltd. (1109)  slumped 8.9 percent in Hong Kong,
pacing declines among Chinese real-estate companies. Noble Group
Ltd.,  Asia ’s biggest commodity trader by sales, dropped 3
percent in  Singapore  after its equity rating was downgraded at
Citigroup Inc. Mitsubishi Estate Co.,  Japan ’s No. 1 developer by
market value, rose 3.6 percent after Bank of Japan nominee
Hiruhiko Kuroda said he will do whatever it takes to end
deflation.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  fell 0.8 percent to 133.59 as
of 7:34 p.m. in  Tokyo , with about three shares falling for every
two that rose. The gauge last week capped a four-month advance,
the longest such winning streak since September 2009, as central
banks around the world maintained accommodative monetary
policies and amid signs the  U.S. economy  is recovering. China
called for higher down payments and  interest rates  for second-
home mortgages in cities with “excessively fast” price gains.  “The transition from loose to normal monetary policy will
be one of the issues that markets are going to have to deal
with,” Daniel Farley, senior managing director at StateStreet
Global Advisors, which manages an equity portfolio of $85
billion globally, said in an interview in Singapore. “That’s a
great risk. Central banks haven’t gotten the timing perfect.”  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 3.7 percent, the
lowest close since Jan. 11. The CSI 300 Index of shares in
Shanghai and Shenzhen dropped 4.6 percent, the most since
November 2010.  Slowing Gain  A purchasing managers’ index released yesterday showed
China’s services industries expanded at the slowest pace in five
months, while a government manufacturing PMI gauge released last
week missed estimates.  Chinese legislators begin an annual conference tomorrow
where the government usually announces yearly economic targets.
The government also called for a 20 percent tax on second-hand
home sales to be strictly enforced.  “People are a little bit worried that instead of good
policies we might see more of these strict policies from the
National People’s Congress,” said Jackson Wong, vice president
at Hong Kong-based brokerage Tanrich Securities Co. The property
measures “indicate the central government is not hesitant to
combat any bubbles. The main concern would be the property tax
on sales, which is 20 percent. That’s a big number and would
absolutely damage the overall Chinese property market.”  Kuroda Comments  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index slipped 1.5 percent. Taiwan’s
Taiex Index declined 1.2 percent, while South Korea’s Kospi
Index fell 0.7 percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index declined
1.5 percent.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225  (NKY)  added 0.4 percent, paring a gain of as
much as 1.4 percent. Shares rose earlier on Kuroda’s comments in
support of easing today at his confirmation hearing at Japan’s
parliament.  Trading volumes on the Japanese benchmark index were 21
percent below the 30-day average and at the lowest since Dec.
2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A system error
halted trading of Nikkei 225 futures and options in  Osaka 
starting from 10:20 a.m. until 2:10 p.m. A software error caused
the problem and was resolved by restarting the system, Osaka
Securities Exchange Co. Managing Director Yoshinori Karino told
reporters.  ‘Cold Water’  “This is like pouring cold water on Japan’s stock rally,”
said Hidehiro Tomioka, who helps oversee $1.3 billion in
Japanese equities at Manulife Asset Management (Japan) Ltd. in
Tokyo. “It’s going to foster distrust among global investors.”  Shares on Asian benchmark index traded at 14.8 times
estimated earnings compared with 13.7 for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index and 12.4 for the Stoxx Europe 600, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Futures on the  S&P 500  slipped 0.5 percent today. The
benchmark index gained 0.2 percent on March 1 as better-than-
estimated data on  consumer confidence  and manufacturing offset
concerns about federal spending cuts.  Chinese developers and banks declined. China Resources Land
dropped 8.9 percent to HK$20.60.  China Overseas Land &
Investment Ltd. (688) , the biggest Chinese real-estate company traded
in Hong Kong, slipped 7.1 percent to HK$21.45. Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China Ltd., the world’s largest lender by
market value, slid 2.2 percent to HK$5.40. China Construction
Bank Corp. fell 2.4 percent to HK$6.19.  Miners Slide  Raw-material producers and energy companies posted the
biggest decline among the 10 industry groups in the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index. Crude oil and copper futures both headed for a
third day of drop.  BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest mining company,
slipped 2 percent to A$35.57 in Sydney. Rio Tinto Group, the
second-largest, fell 3.7 percent to A$63.65. Cnooc Ltd., a
Chinese offshore energy explorer, decreased 2 percent to
HK$14.58 in Hong Kong.  Noble Group (NOBL)  dropped 2.1 percent to S$1.15 in Singapore.
Citigroup cut its rating to neutral from buy and lowered its
share-price forecast to S$1.28 from S$1.68, citing weakening
contributions from its agriculture business. The company is
marketing a $1.5 billion revolving credit facility, according to
three people familiar with the matter.  Japanese developers extended last week’s rally on
anticipation of relaxed monetary policy. The “scale and scope”
of the assets purchased by the central bank so far are not
enough to achieve a 2 percent inflation target, Kuroda said
today.  Developers Advance  Mitsubishi Estate climbed 3.6 percent to 2,537 yen after
Nikkei newspaper reported that Japanese REITs may raise record
funds in the three months through March on expectations of
further easing after the BOJ leadership change.  Mitsui Fudosan Co. (8801) , Japan’s second-largest developer by
market value, rose 2.4 percent to 2,492 yen. Sumitomo Realty &
Development Co., gained 3.9 percent to 3,450 yen.  J Front Retailing Co. (8267) , a Japanese department store
operator, jumped 6.6 percent to 585 yen. Aeon Co., Japan’s
largest retailer, plans to buy J Front’s supermarket unit
Peacock Stores, according to a statement from J Front released
after the Tokyo market closed. The sale, expected to be
completed by April 1, was earlier reported by the Nikkei
newspaper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  