-- Late Winter Storm Aims at Chicago; East Coast Threatened
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-03-04T19:19:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/late-winter-storm-aims-at-chicago-east-coast-threatened.html
A late winter storm that may bring
heavy snow to  Chicago  tomorrow is expected to strike the East
Coast later this week, potentially tying up air traffic and
causing power failures.  Odds are better than 70 percent that Chicago will get at
least 6 inches (15 centimeters) of snow from the storm,
according to the  Hydrometeorological Prediction Center  in
College Park, Maryland.  “It will start overnight tonight and mostly affect both
rush hours, morning and evening,” said Amy Seeley, a National
Weather Service meteorologist in Romeoville,  Illinois . “A lot
of the city could see 8 to 10 inches.”  The storm, the third to strike the Great Plains and Midwest
in three weeks, will cross the northern Plains, bypassing some
of the nation’s hardest-hit drought areas, then curve below the
Great Lakes. Winter storm advisories, warnings and watches
stretch from  Montana  to  Ohio  and have been posted in the
Appalachian Mountains from North Carolina to  Pennsylvania , the
 weather service  said.  Winter storm and snow warnings also were issued for
southern Saskatchewan and Manitoba, including Winnipeg,
according to Environment  Canada . Winnipeg may get about 6 inches
of snow before it stops falling sometime tomorrow, the weather
agency said.  After Chicago  The challenge for forecasters is figuring out what the
storm will do it as moves east across the Ohio Valley, said  Tom Kines , a meteorologist with  AccuWeather Inc.  in State College,
Pennsylvania. The track will determine how much snow falls on
eastern cities from  Washington  to New York and possibly Boston.  If the storm takes a more southerly track to the Atlantic,
Washington and Baltimore may get the worst of the snow, Kines
said. It might start raining in those cities late tomorrow and
change over to snow on March 6.  At least 5 inches of snow is possible across northern
 Virginia  and into Maryland, including Washington and Baltimore,
according to the weather service. There’s a greater than 50
percent chance at least 4 inches of snow will fall in that area,
the Hydrometeorological Prediction Center said.  A track farther north means Philadelphia and New York City
may see significant snow, Kines said. If the storm were then to
hug the East Coast,  Boston  and northern New England may be
affected.  NYC Wind  While New York City will most likely get rain, it may be
buffeted by winds as strong as 25 miles per hour through much of
March 6 into March 7, said Rob St. Pierre, a meteorologist with
 Hometown Forecast Services Inc.  in Nashua, New Hampshire.  Kines said the storm will affect midweek air travel along
the East Coast.  “For anybody traveling Wednesday and Thursday, there is no
doubt there are going to be problems in the East,” Kines said.  As of 1:45 p.m. New York time, 200 flights had been
canceled around the U.S., with 99 of them into and out of
Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport, said  FlightAware , a
Houston-based tracking service. Light snow is falling there and
the cities may receive more than a foot in the next 36 hours,
according to the weather service.  Almost 300 flights have been scrubbed for tomorrow, 279 of
them at Chicago’s O’Hare International, FlightAware said.  The storm’s heavy, wet snow may also trigger power failures
across the mid-Atlantic states, including the Baltimore-
Washington area, the day after tomorrow, according to Matt Rogers, president of Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,
 Maryland .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  