-- Aussie Falls to 8-Month Low on Unexpected Drop in Building Data
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-03-04T05:56:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/aussie-dollar-near-five-month-low-as-china-services-growth-slows.html
Australia’s dollar fell to an almost
eight-month low after a report showed building approvals
unexpectedly declined, adding to speculation the  Reserve Bank 
will cut  interest rates  this year.  The  New Zealand dollar  and the so-called Aussie slid
against most of their 16 major peers after China’s Purchasing
Managers’ Index for services industries indicated the slowest
expansion in five months. China is the largest trading partner
for both Australia and New Zealand.  “Today’s data continues to paint a picture of a fairly
weak domestic economy,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a currency
strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in Singapore. “Some of the
softness in the Asian data is also not helping Australia. Price
action for the Aussie is pretty negative at the moment.”  The Australian dollar dropped 0.8 percent to $1.0125 as of
4:49 p.m. in Sydney, after touching $1.0117, the lowest since
July 12. It fell 0.9 percent to 94.61 against the yen.  The  New Zealand  dollar declined 0.6 percent to 82.03 U.S.
cents, after falling to 81.96 cents, the lowest since Dec. 31.
The so-called kiwi slid 0.8 percent to 76.64 yen.  Australian home-building  approvals  declined in January for
a second-straight month. The number of permits granted to build
or renovate houses and apartments fell 2.4 percent from
December, when they fell a revised 1.7 percent, the Bureau of
Statistics said in Sydney today. The median economist forecast
was for a 2.8 percent gain in a Bloomberg News survey.  Rate Expectations  China’s  non-manufacturing  PMI fell to 54.5 in February from
56.2 in January, the Beijing-based National Bureau of Statistics
and China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said in a
statement yesterday. The report adds to concerns that China’s
rebound from a seven-quarter  slowdown  is losing steam.  The  Reserve Bank of Australia  is forecast to leave its
benchmark interest rate unchanged at 3 percent at a policy
meeting tomorrow, according to a separate Bloomberg survey. That
comes after 1.75 percentage points of reductions in the 14
months through December.  The RBA will probably cut the rate by a quarter percentage
point in May, according to  Michael Turner , a fixed-income
strategist in Sydney at Royal Bank of Canada. “After the
December cut, we thought officials would probably take a
breather for the next couple of months,” he said.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see an 82 percent chance RBA officials will keep the overnight
cash-rate target at 3 percent tomorrow. There’s a 75 percent
chance the rate will fall to a record 2.75 percent or lower by
the June 4 decision.  Australia’s 10-year government bond yield slid six basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 3.28 percent, the least
since Jan. 24. New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment
made to receive floating rates that are sensitive to
expectations for borrowing costs, declined 2 basis points to
2.94 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in  Singapore  at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  