-- Australian Company Profits Decline, Led by Miners, Manufacturers
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-03-04T00:48:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/australian-company-profits-decline-led-by-miners-manufacturers.html
Australian  business profits  dropped
in the three months through December, the fifth quarterly
decline, as  earnings  weakened at mining, manufacturing and
construction companies.  Gross operating profits dropped 1 percent from the third
quarter, when they fell a revised 2.7 percent, the Bureau of
Statistics said in Sydney today. The result matches the median
forecast of a Bloomberg survey of 17 economists. Inventories
rose 0.2 percent. Economists had forecast a 0.6 percent gain.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  will keep
the benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at a half-century low of 3
percent tomorrow, according to 27 of 29 economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News . A high currency has hurt earnings for industries
like manufacturing, while an easing of commodity prices lowered
the gains from exports and the nation’s terms of trade.  From a year earlier, profits declined 7.6 percent, today’s
report showed.  Profits at mining companies fell 3.7 percent from the prior
three months, manufacturers declined 6.3 percent, and
construction slid 1.9 percent. Profit at retailers climbed 5.1
percent from the previous quarter.  Gross operating profit measures earnings before tax,
interest, depreciation and amortization. It excludes asset sales
and foreign-exchange gains or losses.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company, last
month reported a 58 percent decline in first-half profit,
joining rival Rio Tinto Group in posting a drop in earnings as
waning global growth last year prompted lower prices and some
miners to slow expansion.  High Aussie  Coca-Cola Amatil Ltd. (CCL) , Australia’s largest soft-drink
bottler, posted full-year profit that missed analyst estimates
after taking A$146 million of writedowns on its packaged food
business. Net income fell 22 percent to A$460 million in 2012,
the Sydney-based Coke bottler said in a Feb. 19 statement.  Australia’s currency has remained above parity with the
 U.S. dollar  for eight months, the longest stretch since it was
freely floated in 1983, propelled by a mining boom and central
bank asset purchases in major developed nations. The central
bank has cut interest rates by 1.75 percentage points in the 14
months through December to 3 percent, matching a half-century
low reached during the 2009 global recession. It left borrowing
costs unchanged last month.  Australia’s economy probably grew 0.6 percent in the fourth
quarter from the prior three months, and 3 percent from the year
earlier period, a separate Bloomberg News survey showed before a
March 6 government report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  