-- Australia Building Permits, Profits Drop, Sending Currency Lower
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-03-04T01:44:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/australian-home-building-permits-unexpectedly-decline-in-january.html
Australian home-building  approvals 
unexpectedly fell for a second month in January, led by a slump
in apartments, while company profits dropped in the fourth
quarter as earnings weakened at mining and manufacturing firms.  The number of permits granted to build or renovate houses
and apartments declined 2.4 percent from December, when they
fell a revised 1.7 percent, the Bureau of Statistics said in
Sydney today. The median forecast was for a 2.8 percent gain in
a Bloomberg survey of 21 economists. Gross operating profits
dropped 1 percent from the third quarter, matching estimates.  The Australian dollar, which slipped to the lowest since
October after the data, has been squeezing the economy,
prompting the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  to lower borrowing costs
to match a half-century low of 3 percent. Governor  Glenn Stevens 
and his board, who meet to decide on  interest rates  tomorrow,
are seeking to buoy industries including construction to
rebalance economic growth and extend 21 recession-free years.  “Fourth-quarter data confirm the economy lost steam in the
second half of 2012,” said Katrina Ell, an economist at Moody’s
Analytics in Sydney.“Company profits,  capital spending  and
construction have all disappointed. With fourth-quarter gross
domestic product growth likely to surprise on the downside, we
expect at least one more rate cut in the second quarter.”  Inventories, which feed into GDP, rose 0.2 percent, the
data showed. Economists had forecast a 0.6 percent gain.  The local dollar traded at $1.0173 at 12:41 p.m. in Sydney
from $1.0192 before the release.  Inventories Rise  Building approvals rose 9.9 percent from a year earlier,
the report showed; economists’ forecast an 8.1 percent gain.
Approvals to build private houses rose 3.2 percent to 7,484 in
January from the previous month, while approvals for apartments
and renovations slumped 9.1 percent to 5,251.  Traders are pricing in a 17 percent chance Stevens will
tomorrow cut the benchmark rate to a record low 2.75 percent,
according to swaps data compiled by Bloomberg.  Profits at mining companies fell 3.7 percent from the prior
three months, manufacturers declined 6.3 percent, and
construction slid 1.9 percent, the data showed. Profit at
retailers climbed 5.1 percent from the previous quarter.  Gross operating profit measures earnings before tax,
interest, depreciation and amortization. It excludes asset sales
and foreign-exchange gains or losses.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company, last
month reported a 58 percent decline in first-half profit,
joining rival Rio Tinto Group in posting a drop in earnings as
waning global growth last year prompted lower prices and led
some miners to slow expansion.  Strong Currency  Coca-Cola Amatil Ltd. (CCL) , Australia’s largest soft-drink
bottler, posted full-year profit that missed analyst estimates
after taking A$146 million of writedowns on its packaged food
business. Net income fell 22 percent to A$460 million in 2012,
the Sydney-based Coke bottler said in a Feb. 19 statement.  Australia’s currency has remained above parity with the
 U.S. dollar  for eight months, the longest stretch since it was
freely floated in 1983, propelled by a mining boom and central
bank asset purchases in major developed nations. The RBA has cut
rates by 1.75 percentage points in the 14 months through
December to 3 percent, matching a half-century low reached
during the 2009 global recession. It left borrowing
costs unchanged last month.  Australia’s economy probably grew 0.6 percent in the  fourth
quarter  from the prior three months, and 3 percent from the year
earlier period, a separate Bloomberg News survey showed before a
March 6 government report.  The central bank has said there’s evidence its rate
reductions are beginning to take effect.  “There is a good deal of interest rate stimulus in the
pipeline,” Stevens said Feb. 22 in semiannual testimony to a
parliamentary panel in Canberra. “It is having an effect.”  A separate report today from  Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  in  Melbourne  showed the number of job
advertisements climbed 3 percent in February from January, a
second monthly increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  