-- Automatic Spending Cuts Start With Few Initial Effects
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2013-03-04T22:03:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/automatic-spending-cuts-start-with-few-initial-effects.html
Across-the-board spending cuts to
U.S. defense and domestic programs, known as sequestration, took
effect on March 1. It will be a few weeks before the full
effects are felt by federal agencies, defense contractors and
the public. This gives negotiators more time to strike a deal.  Here are questions and answers about the cuts and the
status of budget talks in Washington:  What happened March 1?  Automatic cuts, half affecting  defense spending  and the
remainder spread over other federal agencies, went into effect.
The federal government is reducing spending by $1.2 trillion
over the next nine years, including $85 billion over the final
seven months of this fiscal year.  What are the potential economic implications of the cuts?  The nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office  estimates that
the automatic budget reductions, if they are not stopped, will
cause a 0.6 percentage-point reduction in U.S. economic growth
this year. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told the
Senate Banking Committee on Feb. 26 that “this additional near-
term burden on the recovery is significant.”  The median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
last week calls for a loss of 0.5 percentage points from the
gross domestic product and 350,000 U.S. jobs.  How will federal agencies be affected?  The law requires that each program, project or activity at
every federal agency be cut an equal percentage, though the
definitions of these terms may vary across agencies.  The effective cuts would be about 13 percent for defense
programs and 9 percent for non-defense programs, according to
the Office of Management and Budget. Payments to Medicare
providers would be cut less than other spending, with a maximum
of 2 percent. Agency leaders may have some discretion in
applying the cuts.  What are some specific cuts that could occur?  The  Federal Aviation Administration  would probably close
more than 100 air-traffic control towers about April 1,
Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood has said. The Coast Guard
would reduce its presence in the Arctic by one third, Homeland
Security Secretary  Janet Napolitano  has said.  Does anyone have a plan to stop the reductions?  Democrats and Republicans are locked in a standoff over how
to replace the cuts, especially whether to include new revenue
in such a deal. Republicans reject Democrats’ call for
additional higher taxes for top earners. The Democrats’ plan
would have replaced this year’s part of the spending reduction
with a smaller cut to defense programs, a halt in direct
payments to farmers and a tax increase imposing a minimum 30
percent rate on top earners.  What was the Republican plan to replace the cuts?  The Senate Republicans’ proposal would have kept the $85
billion in cuts this year while requiring Obama to submit a
proposal by March 15 on how to allocate them. Both plans failed
to advance in the Democrat-controlled Senate last week.  How have the markets reacted?  Investors haven’t been deterred much. The  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index (SPX)  rose 0.5 percent to 1,525.25 at 4 p.m. in  New York ,
after falling as much as 0.3 percent earlier. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  gained 37.86 points, or 0.3 percent, to
14,127.52.  Yields on 10-year Treasuries rose three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 1.87 percent at 2:01 p.m. New York
time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data.  What’s next in the House and Senate?  Republicans and Democrats are focused on finding a way to
keep the government operating for the rest of the fiscal year
after a stopgap measure funding federal programs expires March
27. Both parties say they are eager to avoid a government
shutdown.  House Republicans  introduced a measure that would finance
the U.S. government at an annual rate of about $982 billion
through Sept. 30, keeping the automatic spending cuts that began
March 1. The House is set to vote on the measure by March 7.  The bill would include new spending bills for the Pentagon
and the Department of  Veterans Affairs , subject to the spending
cuts. It also would cancel a 0.5 percent pay raise for federal
civilian employees that is scheduled to take effect in April.  Senate Democrats  plan to offer a $1.043 trillion spending
plan.  Would Obama agree to a lower spending level?  Obama indicated on March 1 that he would sign a stopgap
measure if it reflects previous agreements on funding. He has
urged replacing the automatic cuts with a combination of
spending cuts, including in entitlement programs, and higher
revenue from eliminating tax breaks for the wealthiest earners.  Will the effects of the cuts be immediate?  Probably not. About $42 billion of the sequestered funds
would have been spent in fiscal 2013, according to the CBO.
Funds appropriated in one year often are spent in future years,
so the effects of some cuts won’t be seen until fiscal 2014 and
beyond.  What about federal workers?  Federal employees must be given 30 days’ notice before they
are furloughed, or required to take unpaid time off. So notices
would go out even if no furloughs end up occurring. The Pentagon
said it would furlough up to 800,000 civilian employees.  How are the cuts distributed?  An estimated $43 billion in defense cuts would be targeted
at national security and military operations. Another $26
billion will come from domestic programs including health,
education, drug enforcement, national parks and other agencies.
An estimated $11 billion involves reduced payments to Medicare
providers, cuts in agriculture programs and reduced unemployment
benefits.  Is any federal spending exempt from the reductions?  Yes. There will be no cuts to military pay, veterans
benefits and Social Security checks. These exemptions create a
disproportionate effect in other parts of the budget, such as
defense contractors, meat inspection and national parks.  Which cuts are most likely to be replaced or stopped?  Republicans and Democrats from states that are home to
defense contractors or military bases are motivated to replace
the Pentagon cuts. Democrats have emphasized the harm that could
result from cuts to programs serving low-income individuals like
the Women, Infants and Children nutrition program and cuts to
the Education Department.  How much deficit reduction has been accomplished with tax
increases and how much has come from spending cuts?  Even without a bipartisan consensus, the U.S. has reduced
the  budget deficit  by about $2.4 trillion since Republicans took
control of the House in January 2011. Most of that came from
spending cuts Republicans secured later that year. Another $630
billion, plus interest, was shaved in January, when Congress
agreed to let income tax rates rise for top earners.  To contact the reporter on this story: Heidi Przybyla in
Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  