-- Baht Falls for Second Day as China Data Worsens Export Outlook
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-03-04T01:39:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/baht-falls-for-second-day-as-china-data-worsens-export-outlook.html
Thailand ’s baht weakened for a
second day as data over the weekend showed China’s services
industries expanded at the slowest pace since September,
worsening the outlook for Asian exports. Bonds were steady.  The non-manufacturing  Purchasing Managers ’ Index fell to
54.5 in February from 56.2 in January, the Beijing-based
National Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics
and Purchasing said yesterday. China was Thailand’s biggest
export market in January, accounting for 12 percent of total
overseas sales, official data show. In the U.S., the second-
largest market alongside Japan for the Southeast Asian nation’s
goods, confidence among households rose more than projected in
February, data showed March 1.  “Weak data from China is raising concerns about the export
outlook for  Asia ’s emerging economies as a whole,” said Kozo
Hasegawa, a foreign-exchange trader in Bangkok at Sumitomo
Mitsui Banking Corp. “But I don’t think the baht will see
sharp, one-way downward pressure as data from the U.S. remains
pretty solid. Many investors may want to take a wait-and-see
attitude for now.”  The baht declined 0.1 percent to 29.80 per dollar as of
8:35 a.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in the
 exchange rate  used to price options, dropped 23 basis points, or
0.23 percentage point, to 5.05 percent.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of
consumer sentiment climbed to 77.6 from 73.8 in January, data
showed on March 1.  The yield on Thailand’s 3.625 percent government notes due
June 2023 was little changed at 3.62 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  