-- Bank Leumi Drops on U.S. Tax Probe Provisions: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-03-04T11:55:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/bank-leumi-drops-on-u-s-tax-probe-provisions-tel-aviv-mover.html
  Bank Leumi Le-Israel Ltd. (LUMI)  dropped
to the lowest level in three weeks after the country’s largest
lender by assets said it would post a fourth-quarter loss as it
makes a provision to cover costs related to a U.S. tax probe.  The shares retreated 2.4 percent to 12.85 shekels, the
lowest intraday level since Feb. 12 at 1:29 p.m. in Tel Aviv.
The  TA-25 benchmark stock index  slid 0.3 percent.  The TA-Bank index, which measures the performance of
 Israel ’s five largest commercial banks, dropped 1.2 percent.
Leumi said today it would take a 340 million shekels ($91
million) provision to cover costs related to an investigation by
U.S. authorities connected to suspected clients’ tax evasion.
Final expenses may be significantly higher, the bank said in an
e-mailed statement. The bank said it expects to post a fourth-
quarter loss of 100 million shekels including the special
provision.  “Leumi may be required to provision additional sums
covering these investigations as U.S. authorities tend to be
very harsh with their level of fines,”  Terence Klingman, head
of trading at Psagot Investment House Ltd. said today by phone.  No Admission  The provisions are not an admission to any claim that can
be made against the group by U.S. authorities, the bank said in
today’s statement.  Dozens of U.S. citizens who used offshore accounts to avoid
taxes have helped the federal government in a criminal
investigation of two Israeli banks, Leumi and  Mizrahi Tefahot
Bank Ltd. (MZTF) , two people familiar with the matter said last month.
The probe comes amid a U.S. crackdown on offshore tax evasion
that has widened since UBS AG, the largest Swiss bank, avoided
prosecution in February 2009.  Zurich-based UBS, which paid $780 million, said it helped
clients evade taxes, and later turned over data on thousands of
accounts. Since then, at least 11 banks have been the subject of
U.S. criminal investigators, including Mizrahi; Leumi; and
Credit Suisse AG, the second-largest Swiss bank.  Mizrahi shares fell 0.7 percent to 38.33 shekels. When
asked if the bank will also announce a provision because of the
investigation Benny Shoukron, a spokesman for Mizrahi, said
“no.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  