-- Bank of Ireland CEO Doesn’t Fear Tests as Arrears Stabilize
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-03-04T17:13:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/bank-of-ireland-doesn-t-fear-stress-tests-as-arrears-stabilize.html
Bank of Ireland Plc  said it probably
won’t need more capital after stress tests this year, as
mortgage arrears stabilize and lending margins rebound.  A fourth round of central bank tests “are nothing to fear
from our perspective,” Chief Executive Office Richie Boucher
told reporters in Dublin, as the bank’s 2012 underlying pre-tax
loss, excluding loan-sale losses, narrowed to 1.45 billion euros
($1.89 billion) from 1.52 billion euros. Shares in the nation’s
largest bank by assets rose.  “The recovery is beginning to take hold,” said  Emer Lang ,
an analyst with Dublin-based securities firm Davy, who has a
neutral rating on the stock. The lender “is starting to see the
benefits flowing through from its focus on rebuilding
profitability.”  Boucher, 54, cut his workforce 9 percent to about 12,000
last year as he shrank the bank’s loan book and reliance on
central bank funding. Taxpayers have injected 4.8 billion euros
into Bank of Ireland since 2009, as a collapse in real estate
prices pushed the nation’s financial system close to failure.  “There are definitely signs that the economy is starting to
grow again,” Boucher said. “There are signs in the bank that
all the work we’ve been putting in over the last four years is
starting to come through in the financial numbers.”  Jobs Go  Bank of Ireland will eliminate more jobs this year after
1,200 staff exited last year, mainly through a redundancy
program. Some 42 percent of a 135 million-euro charge taken last
year to cover redundancies hasn’t yet been used, Chief Financial
Officer Andrew Keating said. Executives declined to say how many
more jobs may be lost.  The lender said today its net interest margin widened to
1.34 percent in the second half from 1.20 percent in the
previous six months, as it cut deposit rates and raised
borrowing costs. Deposits grew to 75 billion euros at the end of
December from 71 billion euros a year earlier. The lender’s
reliance on central bank funding fell to 12 billion euros from
23 billion euros.  Shares Rise  Boucher said his aim of raising the net-interest margin to
more than 2 percent by end-2014 remains challenging. Shares in
15 percent state-owned Bank of Ireland rose 3.8 percent in
Dublin to 13.6 euro cents.  Bank of Ireland’s loan-loss charge fell to 1.72 billion
euros from 1.94 billion euros a year earlier, marking a third
straight year of decline. The impairment charges will continue
to drop, the bank said.  The nation’s unemployment rate, at 14.1 percent last month,
is at the lowest since August 2010. Dublin home prices, which
have fallen 54 percent since 2007, rose 2 percent in January
from a year earlier.  Arrears Stabilize  By value, 9.9 percent of the bank’s Irish owner-occupier
mortgages were at least 90 behind in payments at the end of
December, up from 9.2 percent in June and 7.40 percent a year
earlier. Buy-to-let arrears rose to 23.4 percent in December
from 20.8 percent in June and 16.8 percent a year earlier.  “We can be confident that we are seeing the situation
stabilizing,” said Boucher, adding that writing off debt isn’t
part of its policy. “This problem is manageable.”  Of the 10 percent of troubled owner-occupier loans, 15
percent are early-arrears cases, 40 percent of customers are in
forbearance arrangements, 10 percent are subject to legal
action, while the bank is in talks with most of the remaining 35
percent to restructure loans on a long-term basis.  Bond Sales  Bank of Ireland sold its first public bond in two years on
Nov. 13, raising 1 billion euros of three-year, Irish
residential mortgage-covered debt. It returned to the
subordinated  bond market  a month later, selling 250 million
euros of junior debt.  Boucher said the bank is well-positioned to deal with
medium-term international  capital requirements  with its core
equity Tier 1 ratio, a measure of financial strength, at 8.5
percent under forthcoming Basel III rules, due to be implemented
by the end of 2019. It expects the ratio to rise to 10 percent
“on a phased basis.”  The bank’s capital level is buttressed by the government’s
1.8 billion euros of preference shares, which can only be
counted until the end of 2017 under proposed new capital rules.  Bank of Ireland will owe the state 125 percent of the
principal of the shares in just over a year if they haven’t been
redeemed.  The so-called step-up is something “we’re looking at,”
said Boucher. He declined to comment on speculation from
analysts at banks, including at Nomura Holdings Inc., that the
lender may sell shares to cover the redemption.  “In the past, we have dealt with capital and other related
issues by a combination of initiatives and action,” he said.
“That is how we’ll look at this issue as well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  