-- Bank of Spain Starts Decision Process on Santander CEO’s Future
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2013-03-04T18:42:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/bank-of-spain-starts-decision-process-on-santander-ceo-s-future.html
The Bank of Spain said it has
started proceedings to review whether to disqualify Alfredo Saenz, chief executive officer of Spain’s biggest lender  Banco
Santander (SAN)  SA, from banking.  The central bank notified interested parties of its
decision to start the process, which relates to a Supreme Court
ruling last month, the regulator said in an e-mailed statement
today. Saenz and the bank will present their case to the Bank of
Spain, a spokesman for Santander said in a statement sent by e-
mail today.  The central bank’s initiative comes in response to a ruling
by the court in Madrid that a government pardon granted to Saenz
in 2011 went too far by adding that having a criminal record
didn’t affect his ability to work in banking. According to
Spanish law, Saenz and the bank now have 10 to 15 days to
present their arguments to the Bank of Spain.  The legal proceedings involving Saenz have cast a shadow
over the 70-year-old executive since 2009 when he was convicted
in a case dating back to 1994. Under Spanish banking
regulations, “professional virtue” is a requirement for those
working in the banking industry and can be lost by anyone with a
criminal record.  The case involving Saenz relates to a lawsuit stemming from
his tenure as chairman of  Banco Espanol de Credito  SA, now a
retail banking unit of Santander.  Banesto, as the lender is known, sued a group of
businessmen to recover loans in 1994. The defendants filed
counter-complaints of false accusation, which a judge decided to
investigate, and Saenz was held responsible because he approved
the filing of the initial lawsuit.  In March 2011, the Supreme Court upheld the conviction for
false accusations, handing him a three-month jail term and a
suspension from banking for the same period. Former Prime
Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero issued the partial pardon
in November of the same year by commuting the penalties to the
maximum fine allowed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in  Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  