-- Barclays Sees Middle East Fee Rebound as Region Escapes Cuts
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2013-03-04T07:17:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/barclays-sees-middle-east-fee-rebound-as-region-escapes-cuts-1-.html
     March 4 (Bloomberg) -- Barclays Plc, which is cutting 3,700
jobs as it reduces costs by $2.6 billion a year, said it plans
further expansion in the  Middle East  and North  Africa  on rising
demand for wealth management and investment banking services.  Barclays, which employees about 1,000 people in the region,
expects to hire about 100 more this year and has a “healthy
pipeline” of debt capital market and M&A deal mandates, John Vitalo, the bank’s Chief Executive Officer for the Middle East
and North Africa, said in an interview in Dubai on Feb. 27.  The London-based bank announced global job cuts and a plan
to cut costs last month as CEO Antony Jenkins revamps the lender
after its 290 million-pound ($436 million) fine for interest-
rate manipulation and first annual loss in two decades. In the
Middle East, Barclays plans to hire in  wealth management ,
investment banking and retail, and Vitalo said he’s “cautiously
optimistic” on the fee pool for  capital markets  and advisory.  “This region is one of the world’s few macroeconomic
bright spots and we’re fortunate to be in a position to take
advantage of that,” Vitalo said. “The 3,700 job cuts Anthony
referred to are not targeted at the Middle East.”  Banks Hiring  Barclays is among investment banks hiring after  Europe ’s
debt crisis led firms including Credit Suisse Group AG, Nomura
Holdings Inc. and Morgan Stanley to trim their presence in the
Middle East and North Africa. Economic expansion and high  oil
prices  are driving prosperity in the region. Private wealth in
the Middle East and Africa may rise 6.6 percent annually to $6.1
trillion in 2016 as the region’s oil-rich economies continue to
prosper, the  Boston Consulting Group  said in June. Wealth in the
region increased to $4.5 trillion last year, up 4.7 percent from
$4.3 trillion in 2010.  “That personal wealth is a great opportunity for our
wealth management business, but also in the U.A.E. for retail
banking which is focused on the affluent sector,” he said.
“There’s opportunity just about everywhere we look.”  Vitalo said the fee pool in the Middle East is recovering
after falling “consistently” from its peak between 2007 and
2008 and he’s “cautiously optimistic” on its growth for 2013.  Barclays has reviewed 75 of its units to weed out those
that pose a reputational risk or don’t make profits. The firm
will shut about four that consume about 90 billion pounds of
assets and may close a further 17 that generate about 2 billion
pounds of income, Jenkins told reporters in  London  on Feb. 12.  Positions Going  About 1,800 positions will go this year at the firm’s
investment bank and 1,900 in its loss-making European consumer
and business banking unit, Barclays has said. The bank also
plans to scale back the investment bank’s Asian and European
equities business, reversing an expansion that followed its 2008
purchase of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s U.S. unit.  Although Britain’s second-largest lender made “small
amounts of trimming” across its corporate, retail, wealth
management and  investment banking  divisions in MENA last year,
it also hired more than 100 people in the region and plans to
hire “about the same” number of people this year, Vitalo said.  The Middle East and Africa generated about 4.5 billion
pounds of revenue for Barclays last year, about 16 percent of
the total, according to the bank’s annual results. Net income
for Barclays’ African unit  Absa Group Ltd. (ASA)  dropped 13 percent to
8.39 billion rand ($926.6 million) last year as it was hit by
real estate losses.  M&A Adviser  Barclays is the Middle East and Africa’s top merger and
acquisition adviser so far this year, working on deals worth
$11.6 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bank
is the region’s eleventh largest underwriter for bonds,
according to the data. Barclays is acting as an international
adviser on a plan by Egyptian construction and fertilizer
company Orascom Construction Industries to transfer shares from
Cairo and London to Amsterdam and also helped to arrange a $1.5
billion bond sale for  Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC (ADCB) , the  United
Arab Emirates ’ third-biggest bank, last week.  “If you look at the global environment it makes me
cautiously optimistic on the growth of the investment banking
fee pool in the region,” Vitalo said. “I don’t expect we’ll go
back to 2007 any time soon but I’m optimistic that we saw the
trough in 2011.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  