-- Barclays, Standard Chartered to Submit Zimbabwe Plans
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a
-- 2013-03-04T10:03:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/barclays-standard-chartered-to-submit-zimbabwe-plans.html
Units of  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Standard
Chartered Plc (STAN)  are among Zimbabwean banks that will need to
submit final proposals of how they plan to meet local ownership
laws by mid-March, a government agency said.  Barclays, Standard Chartered and local units of South
Africa’s  Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK)  and  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED)  held
talks with the National Indigenization and Economic Empowerment
Board in the last week of February, Wilson Gwatiringa, chief
executive officer of the board, said in an interview today.
Under the law foreign-owned companies must sell or cede 51
percent of their operations to black Zimbabweans or the
government.  “Local management are consulting with their foreign
shareholders with a view to get compliant indigenization plans
which meet requirements of the law,” Gwatiringa said.  Mining companies including units of Impala Platinum
Holdings Ltd. and Anglo American Platinum Ltd. have already
complied with the law. On March 1 President  Robert Mugabe  said
that 51 percent ownership won’t be required in every case,
without giving further details.  “Such variations are the prerogative of the minister,”
Gwatiringa said. “If we get such plans that have such
proposals, we will consult with the minister.”  Barclays Bank of Zimbabwe Ltd . has argued that it is
already 32.23 percent locally owned as it its listed on the
Zimbabwe Stock Exchange, according to its preliminary
submission. It has proposed giving shares to employees to make
up the difference.  NI AFRICA
NI AFRICAX
NI AME
NI BNK
NI BUSINESS
NI CONS
NI COS
NI EM
NI EUROPE
NI FIN
NI FND
NI FRONTIER
NI GOV
NI INSURANCE
NI LAW
NI MARKETS
NI SADC
NI SAFRI
NI UK
NI ZIMB  To contact the reporter on this story:
Godfrey Marawanyika in Johannesburg at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  