-- Bayer to Appeal India Ruling That Allows Copy of Cancer Drug
-- B y   P h i l   S e r a f i n o
-- 2013-03-04T17:57:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/bayer-to-appeal-india-ruling-that-allows-copy-of-cancer-drug.html
Bayer AG (BAYN)  plans to appeal a ruling by
an Indian regulatory board that allows generic-drug maker  Natco
Pharma Ltd. (NTCPH)  to make a low-priced copy of Bayer’s patented
Nexavar cancer medicine.  India’s government last year allowed Natco to produce and
sell cheaper copies of Nexavar, a decision that also pressures
other brand-name manufacturers to lower prices. Bayer had
appealed to the country’s Intellectual Property Appellate Board,
and today was told that it had lost, the Leverkusen, Germany-
based company said in an e-mailed statement.  “We strongly disagree with the conclusions of the
Intellectual Property Appellate Board,” the company said.
“Bayer is committed to protecting its patent for Nexavar and
will rigorously continue to defend our intellectual property
rights within the Indian legal system. We will pursue the case
in front of  High Court  in Mumbai with a writ petition.”  The government’s decision last year marked the first time
that India allowed a generic-drug maker to manufacture copies of
a medicine that is protected by patents in the country. Under a
World Trade Organization agreement known as Trade-related
aspects of intellectual property rights or TRIPS, member
countries can use these  compulsory licenses  to ensure access to
affordable medicines, according to Doctors Without Borders,
which supports the government decision.  Weaker System  The appellate board ruling “weakens the international
patent system and endangers pharmaceutical research,” Bayer
said. “The limited period of marketing exclusivity made
possible by patents ensures that the costs associated with the
research and development of innovative medicines can be
recovered.”  Since it began selling Nexavar in  India  in 2008, the
company has had a program in place to ensure patients have
access to the treatment, Bayer said. The cost of the product is
reduced to about 10 percent of the regular price for 73 percent
of all Nexavar patients, the company said.  Doctors Without Borders said it hopes today’s ruling means
that compulsory licenses will soon be issued for HIV drugs.  “The decision confirms that the Indian patent office is
able to use all the means legally at its disposal to check the
abuse of patents and open up access to affordable versions of
patented medicines,” the group said in an e-mailed statement.
“The way has been paved for compulsory licenses to be issued on
other drugs, now patented in India and priced out of affordable
reach, to be produced by generic companies and sold at a
fraction of the price.”  Novartis Case  Natco, based in Hyderabad, rose 0.8 percent to close at
426.25 rupees in Mumbai. Bayer rose 0.3 percent to close at
75.57 euros in  Frankfurt .  Nexavar is used for the treatment of advanced kidney and
liver cancer. The drug had sales of 792 million euros ($1.03
billion) in 2012.  Novartis AG (NOVN)  of Basel,  Switzerland , has brought a case
before India’s  Supreme Court  over its cancer treatment Gleevec.
The drugmaker is challenging laws that say new forms of existing
medicines will only be granted a patent if they demonstrate
significantly higher effectiveness.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  