-- BCE’s Astral Bid Approved After Deal to Divest Channels
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-03-04T22:31:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/bce-s-astral-bid-approved-after-deal-to-divest-channels.html
BCE Inc. (BCE) ’s C$3 billion ($2.9
billion) bid to acquire Quebec specialty-channel provider  Astral
Media Inc. (ACM/A)  won approval from Canada’s antitrust regulator,
moving the deal a step closer to completion.  BCE agreed to divest channels including Teletoon,
MusiquePlus and Disney XD to preserve local competition, the
Ottawa-based Competition Bureau said in a statement today. BCE’s
amended bid must still be approved by Canada’s broadcast
regulator, which rejected the deal in October, saying it would
curb television and radio competition.  BCE, based in Montreal, is seeking to consolidate its
position as the country’s largest private broadcaster by adding
television channels in French-speaking Quebec, including premium
services like Super Ecran. Opponents of the bid include  Quebecor
Inc. (QBR/B) , which would face intensified competition for its Videotron
cable service and TVA television network.  The Competition Bureau said that without the channel
divestitures, the acquisition would have “likely have led to
increased prices, less innovation and reduced choice for
television programming.”  The decision was announced after the close of regular
trading. BCE shares rose 0.4 percent to C$46.75 in Toronto as
Astral slipped 0.6 percent to C$47.75.  ‘Step Forward’  BCE’s Chief Executive Officer George Cope said in a
statement that the decision is a “major step forward” to
completing the transaction. To help convince regulators to
complete the deal, the companies agreed to sell Astral’s share
of six television joint ventures, including Teletoon and Cartoon
Network, as well as two radio stations to  Corus Entertainment
Inc. (CJR/B)  for C$494 million.  A successful purchase of Astral would be Cope’s largest
deal to date. He has teamed with Toronto-based  Rogers
Communications Inc. (RCI/B)  to buy a controlling stake in Maple Leaf
Sports & Entertainment Ltd. in a $1.3 billion deal to own the
Toronto Maple Leafs, the most valuable team in the National
Hockey League. BCE agreed to buy broadcaster CTV in 2010 for
C$1.3 billion in cash and C$1.7 billion in debt, giving it 30
specialty channels, including sports channel TSN.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  