-- Benin Authorities Say Second Coup Attempt Foiled in Five Months
-- B y   S e r g e - D a v i d   Z o u e m e   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2013-03-04T16:02:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/benin-authorities-say-second-coup-attempt-foiled-in-five-months.html
Benin  authorities said they foiled a
plot to oust President Thomas Yayi Boni, the second coup attempt
in five months attributed to a man now living in exile.  Johannes Dagnon, a Beninese businessman, and Pamphile
Zomahoun, an army commander, were arrested for planning “to
block the head of state from returning to Cotonou” and to
install a military regime in the West African nation, state
prosecutor Justin Gbenameto told reporters yesterday in Cotonou,
the capital.  Dagnon is an associate of Patrice Talon, another Beninese
businessman who has been living in  France  since authorities
accused him of planning to kill Yayi Boni by having a physician
replace his daily heart medication with poison, Gbenameto said.  “The investigation is ongoing” into the apparent first
attempt, he said.  Three people were arrested in October in connection with
the alleged conspiracy to poison Yayi Boni. In December, Benin’s
prosecutor asked France to extradite Talon.  Joseph Djogbenou, a lawyer for Dagnon, said on television
that his client had no involvement with any coup plot. No lawyer
for Zomahoun could be identified.  Yayi Boni has ruled Benin, situated between Nigeria and
Togo and known as the birthplace of voodoo, since 2006 and won a
second term in office in 2011. He traveled to  Equatorial Guinea 
last month for a summit with South American leaders, Gbenameto
said.  Third Term  “There are concerns that Yayi will try and amend the
constitution to give himself a third term in power, which could
increase the risk of coup plots as anti-Yayi elements attempt to
prevent the president from monopolizing power,” Robert
Borthwick, Africa analyst at the Bath, U.K.-based risk-analysis
company Maplecroft, said in an e-mailed response to questions.  The 60-year-old leader has “vigorously pursued those
involved in the last coup attempt and is extremely sensitive to
perceived or substantive threats to his rule,” Borthwick said.  Benin’s $7.3 billion economy relies on agriculture
including cotton to generate more than a third of total output
and provides employment for 70 percent of its workforce,
according to the  African Development Bank .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serge-David Zoueme in Cotonou at 
 zsergedavid@bloomberg.net .
Pauline Bax in Accra at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  