-- MBIA Defeats BofA Lawsuit Over Restructuring; Shares Jump
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n ,   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   S h a n n o n   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 2013-03-04T22:06:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/mbia-defeats-bofa-lawsuit-over-2009-restructuring.html
MBIA Inc. (MBI)  defeated a lawsuit by  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  that sought to reverse
approval of the bond insurer’s $5 billion asset-transfer because
it cut money available to cover their policy claims.  MBIA rose 24 percent to close at $12.78 after Justice
Barbara Kapnick of  New York  State Supreme Court in  Manhattan 
dismissed the case. Bank of America and Societe Generale had
sought to reverse the state approval under New York laws that
allow court challenges to state agency decisions.  In 2009, New York Insurance Department Superintendent  Eric Dinallo  approved the split, allowing MBIA to move the company’s
guarantees on state and municipal bonds out of subsidiary MBIA
Insurance Corp., which guaranteed some of Wall Street’s most
toxic mortgage debt.  The banks argued during a month of oral arguments last year
that the approval was based on inaccurate and incomplete
information provided by Armonk, New York-based MBIA. They say
the split exposed them to losses as holders of financial-
guaranty policies by siphoning more than $5 billion in assets
from MBIA Insurance.  A second suit over the restructuring is still pending in
New York state court.  Potential Roadblock  The dismissal removes one potential roadblock to MBIA’s
efforts to jump-start its primary business of insuring municipal
bonds. MBIA has told investors that as long as the litigation
challenging the split remained, the company’s ability to win
public-finance business would be constrained.  “We look forward to resolving the remainder of our
litigation so that we can support the financing needs of towns
and cities across America by re-establishing National Public
Finance Guarantee Corp., our U.S. muni-only insurer, as a leader
in the U.S. public finance insurance market,” MBIA Chief
Executive Officer  Jay Brown  said in a statement.  The ruling may also remove one bargaining chip for Bank of
America in lawsuits between it and the bond insurer, which is
separately suing the lender to force it to buy back faulty loans
that were included in residential-mortgage securities it
insured.  Kapnick’s decision may spur Bank of America to offer MBIA a
“reasonable settlement,” which could be $2.5 billion or more,
 Mark Palmer , an analyst for BTIG LLC, said in a blog post. A
ruling in favor of Bank of America would have given the lender
significant leverage in settlement talks, he said.  Reviewing Decision  The lawsuit over MBIA’s restructuring “has now largely
been reduced to a lever in our ongoing dispute with Bank of
America and its Countrywide subsidiary over their mortgage-
putback obligations,” Brown said in a conference call last
week.  Robert Giuffra, an attorney for the banks, said in an
e-mail that he would appeal the decision.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America, and  James Galvin , a spokesman
for Paris-based Societe Generale, said they were reviewing the
decision and that they would pursue their claims in a parallel
lawsuit.  “We continue to believe that MBIA wrongfully transferred
$5 billion from its structured finance subsidiary, to the harm
of its policyholders, which we intend to prove in the separate
fraudulent conveyance litigation that is underway,” Grayson
said in a statement.  David Neustadt , a spokesman for the Department of Financial
Services, declined to comment. The department merged the state’s
banking and insurance regulators.  Regulatory Seizure  MBIA warned investors last week that there was
“substantial doubt” about the ability of the MBIA Insurance
unit to continue as a going concern. If it can’t reach an
agreement with Bank of America, the lender could make claims on
commercial-mortgage debt that MBIA guaranteed that the insurer
said could leave it without sufficient funds and trigger a
regulatory seizure.  S&P cited that risk in its downgrade of the National Public
Finance unit last week, saying it may not be able to recover
about a $1.6 billion intercompany loan to the old insurance unit
if the regulator acts.  Legal Grounds  Bank of America and  Societe Generale  have a separate
lawsuit in New York state court against MBIA over the
restructuring. That complaint, which relies on different legal
grounds, seeks to set aside the asset transfers. Kapnick said
today’s decision doesn’t extinguish claims in that case.  “The issue before this court is whether there was a
rational basis for the approval of the transformation or whether
it was an arbitrary decision, taken without regard to facts,”
Kapnick wrote in her decision. “The inquiry is not whether the
result would have been different had the NYID hired certain
experts or conducted the review on a different time line or with
different resources.”  The case is ABN Amro Bank NV v. Dinallo, 601846-2009, New
York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net  and;
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 