-- Bidvest Sees Double-Digit Earnings Growth in Ailing Economy
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2013-03-04T16:06:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/bidvest-sees-double-digit-earnings-growth-in-ailing-economy-1-.html
Bidvest Group Ltd. (BVT) , a South African
industrial company with interests from cleaning to car sales,
estimates it will maintain double-digit earnings growth in the
second-half as economic growth improves in 2013.  January and February delivered better trading results than
the previous two months, Chief Executive Officer Brian Joffe
said in a phone interview today from Johannesburg. “We are
optimistic to have decent results” for the six months through
June, with double-digit growth, he said.  So-called normalized earnings per share excluding one-time
items increased 18 percent to 7.25 rand for the six months
through December, compared with 6.13 rand a year ago, Bidvest
said in a statement. Revenue climbed 12 percent to 75.4 billion
rand ($8.3 billion).  Rising unemployment and weaker consumer spending reduced
demand for many of Bidvest’s services in South Africa, which
accounts for about 45 percent of total sales. Labor unrest in
the mining, transport and farming industries contributed to a
decline in South African economic growth to 2.5 percent last
year from 3.5 percent in 2011.  The “economic climate is a little better” than last
calendar year, Joffe said. Calls for higher wages will probably
affect costs and above-inflation salary increases are the “only
risk” that could put pressure on margins, he added.  Bidvest shares closed 0.1 percent lower at 240.20 rand in
Johannesburg after reaching a 22-year high last month. The stock
has rallied 11 percent this year, compared with a 1.5 percent
advance in the  165-member FTSE/JSE All Share Index. (JALSH)  The company
has a market value of 78.6 billion rand ($8.7 billion).  Bidvest said in November it offered to buy the shares in
household appliance maker  Amalgamated Appliance Holdings Ltd. (AMA)  it
didn’t already own. Further acquisitions of about 10 billion
rand are “easily achievable,” Joffe said. The company
completed a deal in Chile last year and also owns fish processor
Seafood Holdings in the U.K.  The interim dividend was raised 16 percent to 3.24 rand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  