-- Birla Mulls U.S. Purchase Driven by Shale Gas: Corporate India
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2013-03-05T11:45:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/birla-mulls-u-s-purchase-driven-by-shale-gas-corporate-india.html
Indian billionaire Kumar Mangalam Birla is considering buying his first fertilizer plant in the
U.S. to benefit from a 55 percent drop in prices of natural gas
used to fuel the factories.  His  Aditya Birla Group (ABNL)  is seeking a “mid-size
acquisition” which has access to technology that can be used in
the conglomerate’s operations, Birla said in an interview. The
U.S. boom from hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, which uses
pressurized water to drive gas and oil from shale rock has
depressed energy prices, while an intelligence advisory panel
said in December that the world’s biggest economy may achieve
energy independence in as little as 10 years.  “There’s going to be a huge geopolitical shift with shale
gas in America,” Birla told Bloomberg TV  India . “This is an
interesting opportunity, given the fact that we have a large
exposure to manufacturing. I see companies in chemicals and
fertilizer space or companies that give technology for the
group’s business.”  Birla, 45, who controls India’s biggest cement producer
 Ultratech Ltd. (UTCEM)  and the world’s largest rolled aluminum maker
Novelis Inc., is joining other Indian companies including
Welspun Corp., which is close to starting a $100 million pipe
factory in the U.S. targeting shale gas clients. The American
Chemistry Council estimates low-cost natural gas may generate
$72 billion in  capital investment  as petrochemical companies
relocate or boost spending in the U.S.  Revenue Goal  The Aditya Birla Group is targeting a 63 percent increase
in revenue to $65 billion by 2016, and is also looking for
acquisitions in  Brazil ,  Thailand  and  Indonesia , Birla said. Half
of the group’s current $40 billion turnover comes from overseas,
he said.  A slump in local gas production is forcing Indian
companies, including power stations and fertilizer makers, to
import the fuel, which is more expensive. The government also
controls prices of fertilizers, making use of costly fuel
unviable.  “Energy cost would be about 60 percent of the total cost
and it makes an obvious choice to have a U.S. presence,” said
P.D. Samudra,  executive director  at Uhde India Pvt., a unit of
 ThyssenKrupp Uhde GmbH  that undertakes projects for industries
including fertilizers, petrochemicals and polymers. “In India,
we also have subsidy issues.”  Shares of Aditya Birla Nuvo Ltd., a group company that
produces fertilizer, were unchanged at 1,046 rupees at the close
in Mumbai. The stock has gained 21 percent in the past year,
compared with a 10 percent rise in the benchmark Sensitive
Index.  No Addition  India hasn’t added any urea manufacturing capacity since
1999, according to the fertilizer ministry’s annual report.  Aditya Birla Nuvo can produce 1.1 million metric tons
annually at Jagdishpur in the state of  Uttar Pradesh . The
company’s fertilizer business earns about 20 billion rupees
($364 million) in revenue from sales in the eastern states of
Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal, according to a corporate
presentation on its website.  Natural gas production  at Asia’s second-biggest energy
consumer declined 14 percent to 34.6 billion cubic meters in the
10 months ended Jan. 31, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Output has declined every month compared with a year
earlier since November 2010, as the nation’s biggest field
operated by Reliance Industries Ltd. slumps.  In the U.S., a surge in gas production from shale rocks
from  Texas  to  West Virginia  made it the world’s biggest producer
of the fuel in 2009, beating  Russia . Gas futures reached a
decade low of $1.91 per million British thermal units in April
in New York trading. They’ve slid 55 percent since Jan. 1, 2008.  Expanding Abroad  “Lower energy costs will attract companies to the U.S. and
the  Aditya Birla group  will look to take advantage of cheaper
gas,” said Alex Mathews, head of research at Geojit BNP Paribas
Financial Services Ltd. at Kochi in southern India. “There’s a
dearth of gas in India and imported gas is expensive.”  Gas in New York trading may reach $3.95 per million British
thermal units by the end of this year, according to the median
of 20 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Prices were at
$3.57 per million Btu as of 6:35 a.m. in New York.  Birla has spent more than $1.5 billion in acquiring assets
overseas in the past two years. Since January 2011, the group
bought four companies in the  chemical industry , including three
overseas.  It agreed to buy Columbian Chemicals Co., a  Georgia , U.S.-
based carbon black maker, for $875 million on Jan. 31, 2011.
Three months later, it bought Sweden’s Domsjo Fabriker AB for
$340 million and followed it up in July with the purchase of
Terrace Bay Pulp Inc., a paper pulp mill in  Canada , to secure
raw material supplies for its viscose staple fiber business.  Country Risk  Birla would rather invest in countries including Brazil and
Indonesia than back home as frequent policy changes in India
discourage companies from spending in Asia’s third-biggest
economy, he said in the interview.  India slipped three levels in the 2013  World Economic
Forum ’s  Global Competitiveness Index  from a year earlier, to 59.
Brazil was ranked 48, while Indonesia was in the 50th position.  “Country risk for India just now is pretty elevated and
chances are that for deployment of capital, you would look to
see if there is an asset overseas rather than in India,” Birla
said. “We are in 36 countries around the world. We haven’t seen
such uncertainty and lack of transparency in policy anywhere.”  A report on Feb. 28 showed India’s $1.8 trillion economy
rose 4.5 percent in the three months to Dec. 31 from a year
earlier, lower than forecast and the weakest pace in almost four
years, as cooling investment, a drop in exports and government
spending cuts sapped growth.  Net Worth  Birla has a net worth of $8.7 billion, according to the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index . His wealth has declined 4.5
percent this year.  Birla’s plans to invest in the U.S. follows announcements
by Austrian steelmaker Voestalpine AG to Singapore-based
Indorama Group, which are hoping to benefit from cheap gas.
 Nucor Corp. (NUE) , the biggest U.S. steelmaker, plans to start up a
$750 million Louisiana project in mid-2013. This is among at
least five U.S. plants under consideration or being built that
would use gas instead of coal.  Indorama Group, a polyester maker operating in more than 20
nations, plans to spend $4 billion on chemical plants in gas-
producing countries, including the U.S.  “A lot of manufacturing will come back into North
America,” Birla said. The U.S. looks very attractive from a
manufacturing point of view, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at   jrogers73@bloomberg.net  