-- Boeing Says Plans for Stretched 787-10 Slow on Batteries
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2013-03-04T22:18:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/boeing-says-plans-for-stretched-787-10-slow-on-batteries.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  said the grounding of the
787 Dreamliner after battery faults has hampered plans to begin
selling a stretched version, called the 787-10, that had
originally been expected to start last year.  “Clearly having the fleet down has slowed things down a
bit,” said Boeing Commercial Airplanes President Ray Conner,
who didn’t specify how much the program had been affected. “We
would have been in much better shape from having people cross
the finish line here.”  There’s “hopefully enough interest to be able to bring
that forward soon” for board approval to officially begin
selling the 787-10 as well as the 777-X, which will be an
upgraded version of that wide-body model, Conner said today at a
JPMorgan Chase & Co. conference in New York.  The 787-10 would be the largest variant of the Dreamliner,
which has been grounded worldwide since January as regulators
investigate battery faults following a fire aboard one airplane
and an emergency landing by another. The 787, Boeing’s most
technologically advanced airliner, has a backlog of about 840
 orders  with a catalog value of at least $186 billion.  The U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration , which is
reviewing Chicago-based Boeing’s proposed fixes to get the
jetliner back in the air, declined to speculate last week about
when the grounding might be lifted. Investigators still haven’t
determined what caused the batteries to overheat.  Boeing is offering a redesign to add space and insulation
between the battery cells and include a vent and hardened case
to contain any fires, people familiar with the plan said last
month.  ‘Really Fast’  If the FAA approves the plan Boeing presented Feb. 22,
“this will move really fast in terms of being able to get the
airplanes back into the air,” Conner said. “We feel really
good about the fix.”  An approved fix will have to be tested and certified, he
said. Then the fleet of 49 jets delivered so far will get the
upgrade kits, and finally the work will move to planes being
produced, according to the executive.  A group of 200 of Boeing’s best engineers, including from
its satellite and defense divisions, has accumulated about
200,000 hours of analysis and tests since the January incidents,
Conner said. Boeing also put together an “impressive outside
team” from other companies to make sure the planemaker’s search
for potential causes is on the right track, he said.  “We’ve covered the waterfront, so to speak, in terms of
all the potentials that are out there,” he said.  ‘Very Comfortable’  Boeing still sees no reason to switch from the 787’s
lithium-ion batteries to a different type, Conner said. “We
feel very comfortable with the technology as it stands.”  Boeing fell less than 1 percent to $77.09 at the close
today in  New York . The  shares  have dropped 0.8 percent since
Jan. 4, the last trading day before the 787 fire.  The company is continuing to increase production of the
model, rising to seven a month “soon” and 10 by year-end, from
five now, even though deliveries have been halted, Conner said.  “We see no reason not to do that, at least at this
particular point in time,” he said. “That could change if
something were to go sideways with the FAA.”  For now, Boeing’s January forecast of delivering more than
60 787s this year remains in place, Conner said.  “We should still be able to pull that off given the time
frames we’re looking at,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  