-- Bond Bears Collide With Swaps Showing Low Rates
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-03-04T13:10:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/bond-bears-collide-with-swaps-showing-low-rates.html
Just the hint the  Federal Reserve 
would end debt purchases that have supported bond prices sent
Treasury yields soaring last month to the highest since April, a
reaction that is unwarranted if money markets are a guide.  Even as yields rose, overnight index swaps that traders use
to speculate on the path of the Fed’s target interest  rate  for
overnight loans between banks signaled that the zero to 0.25
percent range won’t increase for more than two years. In a
bullish sign for bonds, Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE
Index, which tracks the outlook for swings in  U.S. government
debt  rates, shows investors don’t anticipate an increase in
price swings.  While investors dumped bonds as minutes of recent Fed
meetings showed central bankers raised doubts about whether they
need to keep buying $85 billion of debt securities a month to
support the economy, the bigger influence on Treasuries is what
policy makers say about the path of rates, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
data show. Bonds rallied the most last week since August as Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress that it would take a
“substantial improvement” in employment to end the purchases.  “The Fed has been very articulate about the direction of
short-term rates,” said Krishna Memani, the chief investment
officer of fixed-income in  New York  at OppenheimerFunds Inc.,
which oversees $80.7 billion. “It is entirely data-driven and
nobody expects that data to improve” enough to satisfy the Fed
“anytime soon,” he said in a Feb. 27 telephone interview.  Bond Rebound  Yields on 10-year notes fell 12 basis points, or 0.12
percentage point, to 1.84 percent last week, the biggest decline
since the period ended Aug. 31, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader data. The price of the benchmark 2 percent note due in
February 2023 rose 1 3/32, or $10.94 per $1,000 face amount, to
101 13/32. Memani said he see yields ranging from 1.8 percent to
2.25 percent this year. The yield was unchanged at 8:07 a.m. in
New York.  Last week’s rally came after yields  increased  to about an
eight-month high of 1.97 percent on Jan. 4, the day after
minutes of the December 11-12 Federal Open Market Committee
meeting showed policy makers questioned whether the more than
$2.3 trillion of monetary easing since 2008 risked unleashing
inflation and fueling an asset-price bubble.  Yields continued to rise, reaching a high of 2.05 percent
on Feb. 20 after minutes from January’s FOMC meeting showed
policy makers discussed slowing or ending purchases of mortgage
and Treasury debt.  Bernanke Testimony  Bernanke told Congress last week in  Washington  that the
central bank was maintaining its guidance that rates are likely
to remain at record lows. There’s no evidence that the Fed’s
unprecedented asset purchases risked sparking inflation or
creating price bubbles, he said.  It’s the FOMC’s “intention to maintain accommodation as
long as needed to promote a stronger economic recovery with
stable prices,” Bernanke told the Senate Banking Committee Feb.
26 in Washington. “Since longer-term  interest rates  reflect
market expectations for shorter-term rates over time, our
guidance influences longer-term rates and thus supports a
stronger recovery.”  The Fed’s bond purchases, a policy of known as quantitative
easing, or QE, may not be the most important influence for
yields. JPMorgan data shows that the end of QE would trigger
only about an 8 basis-point rise in 10-year note yields, while
the Fed’s plan to keep rates at zero into 2015 is keeping them
about 40 basis points below where they’d be otherwise.  Inflation Slowdown  Record low rates since December 2008 have kept borrowing
costs in check for everything from  car loans  to mortgages, while
fostering an economic recovery that still isn’t assured. The
unemployment is more than a percentage point above the Fed’s 6.5
percent goal and its preferred inflation gauge, the personal
consumption expenditures index, rose 1.3 percent in January from
a year earlier, the smallest increase since April 2011.  “Premature rate increases would carry a high risk of
short-circuiting the recovery, possibly leading -- ironically
enough -- to even longer period of low long-term rates,”
Bernanke said in a March 1 speech in  San Francisco .  Implied forward rates for contracts that show what traders
expect the federal funds  effective rate  to average over a set
time period in the future indicate that a quarter-percentage
point increase won’t come until about the middle of 2015. The
pricing in overnight index swaps of the Fed’s first rate
increase has generally mirrored the Fed’s guidance over the past
year.  ‘Huge Losses’  The MOVE Index, which measures volatility based on prices
of over-the-counter options on Treasuries maturing in two to 30
years, ended last week at 55. While that’s up from a record low
of 51 on Dec. 3, it’s down from a post-financial crisis peak of
264.6 on Oct. 10, 2008 and below the average of about 100 since
the beginning of 2000.  “The Fed’s debt purchases are helpful on the margin, but
to a lot of people in the  bond market  the rate guidance is more
important,”  James Evans , a senior vice president at New York-
based Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. who helps oversee $15
billion in fixed-income assets, said in a March 1 telephone
interview. “That’s more so what’s keeping Treasury yields
low.”  Not everyone agrees.  Michael Schumacher , the head of
global-rates strategy at UBS AG, says investors will face “huge
losses” from a “big jolt” in yields when the Fed reduces its
support. UBS is one of the 21 primary dealers of U.S. government
securities that trade with the Fed and are obligated to bid at
the Treasury’s debt auctions.  Fed’s Assets  The central bank’s balance sheet swelled to more than $3
trillion as of Feb. 21, including $1.74 trillion of Treasuries
securities, $74.6 billion of Federal agency bonds and $1.03
trillion of mortgage-backed debt, central bank data show.  Investors should buy five-year Treasuries and avoid longer-
term bonds, which would lose the most value when all the new
money created by the Fed begins to spark inflation,  Bill Gross ,
who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment
Management Co., wrote on Twitter Feb. 8.  Asset-price “irrationality” is rising after years of
record low Fed rates, he wrote on Feb. 27 in his monthly
investment outlook posted on  Newport Beach , California-based
Pimco’s website.  Instead of raising their yield forecasts, economists and
strategists have steadily lowered them over time. The median of
or more than 50 estimates in a Bloomberg survey is for 10-year
yields to trade at 2.25 percent at year-end, lower than the 3
percent that was predicted in April 2012.  Losses Trimmed  Last week’s rally helped Treasuries trim losses for the
year to 0.23 percent from as much as 1.13 percent on Feb. 13,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Treasury
Index. U.S. government debt returned 2.16 percent in 2012,
including reinvested interest.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators raised their bets
that 10-year Treasuries will rally to the most this year. The
 difference  in the number of bets on a gain and those on a
decline rose to 115,908 contracts as of Feb. 26, according to
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data.  Tax increases that went into effect Jan. 1 and $85 billion
of government budget cuts means the economy will probably slow
this year. Gross domestic product may expand 1.8 percent in
2013, down from 2.2 percent in 2012, according to the median
estimate of more than 75 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The Fed is not going to stop buying bonds anytime soon
because the economy is just not there yet, it hasn’t reached
escape velocity,”  Richard Gordon , a fixed-income market
strategist at  Wells Fargo & Co . in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina ,
said in a Feb. 28 interview. “We just don’t have any real
inflationary pressures.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  