-- Bovespa-Index Futures Drop as China Concern Damps Export Outlook
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-03-04T12:33:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-04/bovespa-index-futures-drop-as-china-concern-damps-export-outlook.html
Bovespa-index futures fell as lower
metal prices dimmed the outlook for producers amid concern a
slowdown in China, Brazil’s top trading partner, will curb
demand for commodities.  Card-payment processor  Cielo SA (CIEL3)  may be active after HSBC
Holdings Plc lowered its recommendation to the equivalent of
hold. Telefonica Brasil SA, the Brazilian unit of Spain’s
largest phone company, may move after naming Alberto Horcajo Aguirre chief financial officer.  Bovespa-index  futures  tumbled 0.7 percent to 56,730 at 9:06
a.m. in Sao Paulo. The real weakened 0.2 percent to 1.9839 per
dollar, depreciating for a third day. The Bloomberg Base Metals
3-Month Price Commodity Index fell for a fourth day, retreating
0.3 percent.  Chinese stocks fell after the world’s largest emerging
market called for higher down payments and  interest rates  for
second-home mortgages in cities with “excessively fast” price
gains and ordered stricter enforcement of taxes on sales as
authorities step up a three-year campaign to cool the  property
market .  Separately, a report from the Beijing-based National Bureau
of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing
showed the country’s services industries expanded last month at
the slowest pace since September  In Brazil, consumer prices as measured by the IPC-Fipe
index in  Sao Paulo  increased 0.22 percent last month after
rising 1.15 percent in January, a report today from the
Foundation Economics Research Institute showed. That compares
with a median  estimate  of 0.33 percent from 12 economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  Peak  The  Bovespa (IBOV)  has dropped 10 percent from this year’s high on
Jan. 3 amid concern accelerating inflation may curb Brazil’s
economic recovery and the government’s interventionist policies
will hurt profits in industries including utilities and energy.
The  MSCI BRIC Index (MXBRIC)  of shares in Brazil, Russia, India and China
has slid 5.2 percent over the same period.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge  trades  at 11.7 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters,
compared with 10.4 for the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  of 21
developing nations’ equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume for stocks in Sao Paulo was 7.27 billion
reais ($3.6 billion) on Mar. 1, which compares with a daily
average of 7.57 billion reais this year through Feb. 28,
according to data compiled by the  exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  